316 CAKES, BISCUITS, &c. of pounded ginger, and of cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each. Mix the ginger and spice with the flour; put the sugar and a small tea-cupful of water into a sauce- pan ; when it is dissolved, add the butter, and as soon as it is melted, mix it with the flour and other things ; work it up, and form the paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them upon tins. HONEYCOMB GINGERBREAD. Half a pound of flour, half a pound of the coarsest brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, one dessert-spoonful of allspice, and double that quantity of ginger, half the peel of a lemon grated, and the whole of the juice. Mix all these ingredients together, adding about half a pound of treacle, so as to make a paste sufficiently thin to spread upon sheet tins. Beat it well, butter the tins, and spread the paste very thinly over them. Bake it in rather a slow oven, and watch it till it is done; withdraw the tins, cut it in squares with a knife, the usual size of wafer biscuits, and roll each round the fingers as it is raised from the tin. This paste, put into a jar, and covered closely, will keep for a month ; but the biscuits will be found best when newly baked. BREAKFAST OR TEA CAKES. Take one pound of flour, and mix it with half a pound of butter dissolved, together with a little cream, milk, or water, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; work it well, and roll it into round balls. Have wafer-irons ready heated, put into them a ball of the paste, press them, and hold the irons upon the fire for a minute or two. SUM CAKES FOR BREAKFAST OR TEA- To one pound of flour, allow two beaten eggs, one ounce of butter, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and as much warmed milk as will make the whole into a pretty stiflT paste; work it well, cover it over, and let it remain before the fire for half an hour; roll it out, and cut it into round cakes, with a small saucer or the top of a tumbler; do them in a nicely-cleaned frying-pan ; dust them with a little flour. They may be baked upon a plate of iron, or what in Scotland is called a girdle. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CAKES FOR BREAKFAST OR TEA. To one pound of flour, allow two beaten eggs, one table- spoonful of fresh yeast, and as much cream as will make them