349 VINEGARS. tlie same tub, which has been well washed ; then run it into iron-hooped casks. Let it stand twelve months, and bottle it for use. This is a very strong vinegar. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. « Bruise to a mash any kind of gooseberries, when quite ripe, and mix thoroughly with a gallon of the mash three of cold boiled water; let it stand twenty-four hours, strain it tlirough a cloth, and to each gallon of the liquor, put one pound of brown sugar ; mix it well, and when quite dissol- ved, put it into a cask. It must stand nine or ten months before being bottled. Currants, or any other fruit of which wine is made, may be substituted for gooseberries. AMERICAN VINEGAR. Boil six gallons of water, and add, while it is hot, four quarts of molasses ; put it into a tub to cool ; when milk- warm, stir in a pint of fresh yeast; put it into the cask, and set it by the fire for twenty-four hours; then put it in the sun, with a bottle in the bung-hole. Bottle it three months afterwards. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. Pare ten large cucumbers ; cut them into thin slices, pour over them a quart of vinegar ; add a clove of garlic, and one or two shalots, a tea-spoonful of ground white pepper, and one of salt; let it stand for ten or twelve days; strain and bottle it; put a little whole pepper into the mouth of each bottle, and cork it tightly. The flavour of the cucumbers may be very well preserved, by simply steeping them in vinegar. GARLIC VINEGAR. Cut small one ounce and a half of garlic, bruise one nut- meg and three cloves, steep them in a quart of vinegar for a week, shaking it daily; then strain and bottle it. Shalot vinegar is made in the same manner. HARVEY’S OR CAMP VINEGAR. Put the following ingredients into two quarts of strong vinegar : — three table-spoonfuls of Indian soy, and the same quantity of mushroom catsup, six anchovies, two heads of garlic, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and as much cochi- neal as will colour it; shake it two or three times a-day for