SOUPS. 25 ANOTHER MACARONI SOUP. Boil for three hours very quickly, in five quarts of water, seven pounds of veal, a little salt, a dessert-spoonful of white pepper, and three or four blades of mace ; strain it off, put it into a sauce-pan, and keep it hot upon a stove. Mix five table-spoonfuls of floiu" with two ounces of butter, put it into an iron-tinned sauce-pan, and stir it over the fire till it be melted ; add half a pint of the strained stock, and then gra- dually mix the whole together, and keep stirring constantly till it thickens, and then add two ounces and a half of maca- roni, previously boiled in milk and water for eight minutes ; stir it again till it boil. Take the pan off the stove, and stir in by degrees about three quarters of a pint of rich sweet cream, and just let it boil before serving. SOUP A LA REZNE. Pound, in a marble mortar, the white meat of three cold roasted fowls, and half a pound of sweet almonds blanched ; add a little cream whilst pounding. Boil this with four quarts of well-seasoned veal stock, then strain it, and just before serving, stir in a pint of cream. ANOTHER SOUP A LA REINE. Boil, in three quarts of veal stock, the crumb of two French rolls, two heads of celery, two onions, some salt, a pound and a half of cold roast veal, pounded in a marble mortar, and four ounces of sweet almonds, pounded with a little of the stock ; boil all together for half an hour; rub it through a sieve, boil it for a short time, and before serving, scald a pint of cream, and stir it by degrees into the soup. POTA6E A LA REINE. Draw, wash, and clean three chickens, or young fowls ; put them into a stew-pan, with a bunch of parsley, and some well-seasoned boiling veal stock ; let it stew for an hour; take out the fowls, and pound all the meat to a fine paste in a marble mortar, with the crumb of two penny loaves, previously soaked in the soup, and the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs ; rub all through a sieve, and add it to the soup, stirring it well. Put a quart of rich cream on the fire, and stir it till it boils, and then mix it with the soup, and serve it quite hot.