15 BROTHS AND SOUPS. be boiled an hour, and one ounce more of barley is requisite. Skim it when the vegetables come to a boil, and keep the pot boiling constantly for five hours. The fowl ought to be taken out when boiled enough, and heated in the broth, so iis to be served up with it, or in another dish. Or it may be made exactly in the same manner as the Sheep’s Head Broth of the last receipt, substituting for the head, ribs of mutton, beef, veal, or fowl, and is better to be composed of a variety of these meats. SCOTS KALE. Put barley on in cold water, and when it boils take oft’ the scum ; put in any piece of fresh beef, and a little salt; let it boil three hours, have ready a cullender full of kale, cut small and boil it till tender. Two or three leeks may he added with the greens, if the flavour is approved of. This broth is also made with salted beef, which must be put in water over night to soak. LEEK SOUP, WHICH IN SCOTLAND IS CALLED COCKY LEEKY. ■ Wash and clean three or four dozen leeks ; cut the white and tender green part in bits about an inch long, and w'ash them again, and put them to drain in a cullender or sieve. Have ready boiling four quarts of stock, made from beef, seasoned with pepper and salt; put in the leeks, and boil them gently for tliree hours, adding a fowl time enough to allow it to be well boiled, and serve it in the tureen. BEEF BROSE. After any large piece of beef has been taken out of the pot it was boiled in, skim off’ the fat with part of the liquor, and boil it in a sauce-pan. Have ready in a bowl oatmeal that has been toasted brown before the fire ; pour in the boil- ing liquor, and stir it a little ; if too thick, add more liquor, and send it to table quite hot. RICE VEAL BROTH. Wash clean six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and cut it in two ; put it into a sauce-pan, with four quarts of boiling water, half a pound of rice well washed, a little mace, white pepper, and salt, and a handful of chopped parsley ; let it boil for three hours. Serve part of the meat in the tureen with the broth. The thick part of the knuckle may be sent up as a separate dish, with parsley and butter poured over it.