APPENDIX.—No. III. 477 height (see page 326), line the pan or mould well with it, turn- ing the pan till quite cold; pour in the pudding and let it steam for half an hour. To be served with caudle or custard sauce. LEMON PUDDING. Half a pound of suet scraped fine, same quantity grated bread, half a pound moist sugar. The grated rind of two lem- ons, and the juice of one mixed with two well-beaten eggs, add the other ingredients and boil in a mould for an hour and a half. CUSTARD IN A MOULD. Grate on sugar the rind and squeeze the juice of half a lemon (freed from the pips) into a jug; dissolve three-fourths of an ounce of good isinglass in a little water and mix with it. Pre- pare a pint of custard, according to directions, page 279, and when cool, stir it into the jug. Then place it in a mould. PREPARED LEMONS FOR TARTS. One pound of grated lump-sugar, the yolks of six and whites of four eggs beaten separately to a froth, a quarter of a pound of sweet butter, the juice of three large lemons, and the rinds grated, the whole to be boiled slowly in a brass pan till thick. It must be stirred all the time. VERY GOOD PLUM PUDDING. Take half a pound of carrots, scrape them well, and boil till quite soft, mash them to a pulp whilst warm, and mix with them the following ingredients :—of currants and raisins nicely cleaned and stoned, and suet finely minced, each half a pound, same quantity of flour, quarter of a pound of treacle, one ounce candied orange peel. Boil in a well buttered basin four or five hours. Should the colour not be thought dark enough, a little more treacle may be added next time of making. FRUIT DISH. Six slices of white bread cut very thin, fruit of any kind boiled, with sugar to your taste; lay one slice on the dish in which it is to be served, and pour some of the hot fruit upon it till it is well soaked, then another layer of the bread and fruit, and so on till you have all well soaked; put a little whipped cream over all, and serve hot. Raspberries and currants mixed do best. GINGER CORDIAL. To half a pound of raspberries, quarter pound currants, same of strawberries picked clean, add one quart best whisky, an ounce and half whole ginger bruised, put all into an earthen- ware jar for four days, occasionally stirring and crushing the fruit, then strain it through flannel over one pound of white su- gar. Let it remain in the jar till the sugar is dissolved, then strain it through muslin into bottles. This may be used in a