FISH. 41 the water, so that the fish may be easily handled ; take it out of the sauce-pan, and pick out the loose bones, and scrape it clean, without taking off the skin. Put it on in boiling water ; and if the fish is too fresh, add a little salt with it, and let it boil gently from one hour to one and a half. The very thick part will take this time, the thin bits less, to dress. When dished, garnish with hard-boiled eggs and parsley. Plain boiled parsnips, and a butter tureen of egg sauce, served with it. When the fish is put on the second time, some people prefer boiling it in milk and water. To keep any of this sort of fish for winter use, it ought to be cut or sawed in pieces, and, when perfectly dry, laid in a small cask or wooden box, with oatmeal, oatmeal seeds, or malt dust, between each layer. DRIED FISH PUDDING. Boil the fish, take off the skin, and take out the bones ; pound it, and add to it an equal quantity of mashed potatoes moistened with good milk and a bit of butter; put it in a dish, smooth it with a knife, and stick here and there little bits of butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven; serve it with egg sauce ; round the edge of the dish may be put a potato oaste. BARRELLED COD FISH. To a barrel that will contain four or five fish, allow three pounds of salt, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, thoroughly mixed ; split the fish, wash and clean them extremely well, and let the water drain from them; strew over them the mixed salt and sugar, and pack them into the barrel, with the skin side down, till the last fish, which put with the skin side up. COD SOUNDS ROASTED OR BAKED. Wash and clean four or five cod sounds, and boil them till nearly done in milk and water; when cold, make a force- meat of bread crumbs, a piece of butter, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, and some chopped oysters ; beat up the yolks of two eggs to bind it, lay it over the sounds, roll them up, and fasten them with a small skewer, baste them with melted butter, and roll them in finely-grated bread crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt; put them on a tin in a Dutch oven, turn and baste them with a feather dipped in melted butter.