DOMESTIC WINES, &c. 377 MXLK PUNCH. The rinds of nine lemons are to be steeped, for eighteen hours, in two quarts of brandy, then mixed with the strained juice of the lemons, one and a half pound of sugar, five pints of water, and one grated nutmeg ; one quart of new milk, made boiling hot, being added, it is to be strained through a jelly-bag. ANOTHER WAT TO MAKE MXZ.K PUNCH. In twenty quarts of brandy, the peel of thirty Seville oranges, and thirty-six lemons, are to be infused for twelve hours ; thirty quarts of water and fifteen pounds of double- refined sugar are to be boiled, and when cold, the strained juice of tlie oranges and lemons is to be added to it; it is tlien to be put into a cask, together with the brandy, strained from the peel; a quart of boiling milk being poured into the cask, it is to be bunged up, and allowed to stand till it be- come fine, before being bottled. It will be the better for remaining a year in the cask. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE MILK PUNCH. Eight pounds of refined sugar are to be dissolved in the strained juice of three dozen lemons, and, when quite settled, two gallons of brandy, and two gallons and a half of cold water, are to be added, and also the lemon-peel; one gallon of boiling milk being then poured over the ingredients, they are to stand closely covered for twenty-four hours; when, being skimmed, and run through a very thick jelly-bag, it may be quickly bottled, and will be fit for immediate use ; but it improves by keeping. RATAFIA. One gallon of brandy, three hundred kernels of apricots, the juice and very thin parings of eight lemons, and half an ounce of salFron; when these ingredients have stood a fort- night, they are to be strained, and one pound of white sugar- candy dissolved in half a pint of water, added to the liquor. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RATAFIA. Five hundred peach kernels are to be steeped in one gallon of pale brandy, together with two quarts of frontignac, one pint of orange-flower water, and one pound and three quar- ters of double-refined sugar. It must be shaken daily for six weeks, and then put through a jelly-bag till clear.