SOUPS. the tureen. A better thickening than flour is, to boil quite tender two of tlie pigeons, take off all the meat and pound it in a mortar, rub it through a sieve, and put it, with the cut pigeons, into the strained soup. To make partridge soup, partridges may be substituted for pigeons, when only four birds will be required ; pound the breast of one. ANOTHER PIGEON SOUP. Take eight pigeons, cut down two of the oldest, and put them, with the necks, pinions, livers, and gizzards of the others, into four quarts of water ; let it boil till the substance be extracted, and strain it; season the pigeons with mixed spices and salt, and truss them as for stewing; pick and wash clean a handful of parsley, chives or young onions, and a good deal of spinacli, and chop them ; put in a frying-pan a quarter of a pound ot butter, and when it boils, mix in a handful of bread crumbs; keep stirring them with a knife till of a fine brown ; boil tlie whole pigeons, till they become tender, in the stock, with the herbs and fried bread. If the soup be not sufficiently high seasoned, add more mixed spices and salt. GXBLET SOUP. Clean very nicely two sets of giblets ; parboil them. Take the skin off the feet; cut the gizzards in quarters, the necks in three bits, the feet, pinions, and livers, in two, the head in two also, first taking off the bill; boil them till nearly done enough in a quart of weak gravy soup with an onion. Have ready boiling some rich highly-seasoned brown gravy soup; add the giblets and the liquor they have been boiled in, with some chopped parsley ; t;ike out the onion, and thicken the soup with a bit of butter kneaded in flour. If the giblets are not perfectly sweet and fresh, do tiot add the weak soup they were boiled in. Half a pint of white wine may be added a little before serving, but it is very good without. KIDNEY SOUP. Cut down two kidneys; fry them a little in biitter and flour ; stew them in a quart of highly-seasoned gravy soup till tender, then add two quarts more of the soup, and thicken it with browned flour and butter. OX CHEEK SOUP. Separate the bones from the meat, and break the bones;