264 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. together, and bake it in small paper cases in a Dutch oven. To oil the butter, put it into a tea-cup, and set it in a basin of boiling water. TO TOAST CHEESE. Cut some double or single Gloucester cheese into small shavings, and put it with a bit of butter into a cheese-toaster; place it before the fire till the cheese dissolves, stirring it now and then. Serve with a slice of toasted bread, divided into four, and the crust pared off. It is generally eaten with mustard, salt, and pepper. ANOTHER WAY TO TOAST CHEESE. Mix, with four ounces of grated and sifted bread crumbs, two ounces and a half of fresh butter, three ounces of good cheese finely grated, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a table-spoonful of cream, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a little salt and pepper ; put it into a sauce-pan, and stir it till it be heated, and then lay it thick upon small bits of toasted bread, and brown it with a salamander or hot shovel, or lay the paste upon the bits of toast; put them, covered with a dish, into a Dutch oven till liot through, and let the cheese just browui. Serve as hot as possible. WELSH RABBIT. Pare the crust off a slice of bread, toast it nicely, divide it in two, butter it, and lay upon each half a thin slice of cheese which has been toasted in a Dutch oven; if, when put upon the toast, it is not sufficiently browned, hold a salamander, or hot shovel, over the top. Serve it very hot. TO STEW CHEESE. Melt three quarters of an ounce of butter in a tea-cupful of cream ; mix with it a quarter of a pound of good cheese finely grated; beat it w'ell together; put a slice of toasted bread into a dish, and pour the mixture over it, and brown it with a salamander. BOILED CHEESE. Grate a quarter of a pound of good cheese ; put it into a sauce-pan, with a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, and half a tea-cupful of milk ; stir it over the fire till it boil, and then add a well-beaten egg: mix it all together, put it into a small dish, and brown it before the fire ; or serve it without being browned.