206 PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. on the sides, keeping the paste rather within the edge of tiie bottom ; pinch it all round, to make the pieces adhere, then fill the pie, and brush round the upper sides of the crust and the outer edges of the cover with egg ; lay on the cover, pinch it round neatly, and ornament it according to fancy with leaves, festoons, or chains of rings made of the paste. FINE ICING FOR TARTS AND PUFFS. Pound and sift four ounces of refined loaf sugar; beat up the white of an egg, and by degrees add to it the sugar, till it look white and is thick. When the tarts are baked, lay the icing over the top with a brush or feather, and then return them to the oven to harden, but take care that it do not become brown. VOL-AU-VENT. Roll out puff paste about half an inch thick ; lay upon it a small oval flat dish, and cut out, with a paste cutter, two pieces the same size. Butter the dish, and lay upon it one piece of the paste ; brush over the edge to the width of the rim of the dish with water, and lay upon it the second piece of paste, and with a tin cutter, the size of the inner part of the dish, cut the paste nearly through, or cut it round with a knife. Bake it of a light brown colour. Cut off the central part, and fill it with pulled chicken or turkey, minced veal, stewed oysters, or any sort of fricassee. Put on the top, and serve it on a napkin. PHEASANT PIE. Cut off the heads of a brace of pheasants, and bone them carefully ; make a forcemeat of grated bread, pounded veal, and fat bacon, in equal quantities, and half the quantity of one of these of minced beef suet, also a little grated lean ham ; season it with truffles, nutmeg, mace, pepper, and salt — a very little garlic is an improvement; bind it with the beaten yolks of eggs. Put a part of it inside of the pheasants, and fry them for a few minutes. Put them into a standing crust, or a deep dish, lined with slices of fat bacon and some forcemeat laid at the bottom; add a glass of brandy, some truffles, and more of the forcemeat; then lay slices of fiu bacon over the whole. If in a dish, cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it for four or live hours. When the pie is to be used, take ofl' the coarse paste, and put over the dish a rich puff paste, and when this is sufficiently baked, it may be served.