190 VEGETABLES. TO BOH. BROCOLI. Wash it, cut off all the outside leaves and stalks, throw it into cold water as it is trimmed ; put it on in boiling water, with a little salt, and boil it for twenty minutes or half an hour. It is sometimes served upon bits of toasted bread, and a little melted butter poured round it. TO BOIL BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Trim and wash them perfectly clean, and let them lie an hour in cold water. Put them on in boiling water, with a little salt, and boil them till tender. Drain off the water, and serve them hot. TO BOIL SEA KALE. Let it lie some time in cold water, then clean and trim it nicely, cutting off any part that may be at all green, and parting it as little as possible. Put it on in boiling water, with a little salt. Let it boil half an hour ; drain off the water. Pare the crust off a slice of toasted bread, lay it in the dish, pour over it a little melted butter, and serve the kale upon it. TO BOIL ARTICHOKES. Cut off the stalks close to the bottom, and slice oft’ the half of the leaves from the top ; w\ish them well, and let them lie for some hours in cold water; put them on in boil- ing water, with a little salt in it, cover the pan closely, and boil them an hour and a half If they are old, and have not been fresh gathered, they will take a longer time to boil. Melted butter is served with them in a sauce-tureen. TO DR7 AND PICKLE ARTICHOKE BOTTOIVIS. Half boil the artichokes, strip off the leaves, and pull out the choke; put the bottoms into small jars, and cover them with a cold boiled brine of salt and water ; put melted mut- ton suet on the top to exclude the air, and tie a bladder over them. To dry them, they are boiled as for eating, the leaves and choke pulled out, and the bottoms dried upon dishes in an oven, and then kept in paper bags. When to be dressed, they must be laid into warm water, and soaked for two or three hours; they may then be plain boiled, and eaten with melted butter, or stewed in gravy, with a little mushroom catsup, pepper, and salt, and thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. They are a great improvement to all made dishes and meat pies.