120 VEAL. boil an hour or two. Serve it with a white gravy thickenetl, or when turned out of the shape, rub it over the top with the beaten yolk of an egg; sift bread crumbs thickly over, and brown it in a Dutch oven; baste it with a little melted butter. Garnish with fried parsley or cut lemon. ITALIAN VEAL. Boil with some bread and milk an onion, a bay leaf, a little cayenne and white pepper, and a beaten egg; take out the bay leaf, and add some pounded raw lean veal, with a little fat of veal which has been boiled and pounded ; rub the mixture through a coarse sieve, and with a little flour form it into rolls ; tie each roll in a bit of cloth first dipped into hot water, and dusted with flour ; put them on in boiling water, and boil them ten or twelve minutes. Serve them with a white or brown gravy well seasoned. CALF'S CHITTERLINGS, OR FRAISE. Cut them open with scissors ; wash and cleanse them tho- roughly, lay them for a night into salt and w'ater; then wash them well, parboil, and cut them into small pieces, dip them into a thick batter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little white wine ; fry them of a light brown colour in beef drip- ping ; serve with a fringe of fried parsley. Or, After being parboiled, they may be roasted, when they must be constantly basted with butter, dredged with flour to froth them nicely; then served with melted butter, and lemon pickle poured over them. Or, They may be baked — when, after being parboiled, they are rubbed over with butter, and put into the oven on an iron frame, which is placed in a deep dish. This oblong frame of white iron, about two inches high, will be found useful in baking every kind of meat. SAVOURY CABBAGE. Pound, in a marble mortar, about two pounds of veal, a large slice of ham, two shalots, and a quarter of a pound of fresh beef suet; season with white and cayenne pepper, nut- meg, lemon-peel, salt, and some parsley and lemon thyme finely minced ; beat all well together till thoroughly mixed, and add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Wash and clean a large head of cabbage, take out the heart, and stuff' it with the above ingredients ; roll it in a cloth, and sew it tightly; boil it slowly for three hours, and serve it with a white sauce.