io8 THE SKELETON. articulates with the upper end of the second metacarpal bone ; it is convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and subdivided, by an elevated ridge, into two unequal lateral facets. The posterior or dorsal and anterior or 'palmar surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the larger of the two. The external surface, convex and smooth, articulates with the trapezium. The internal surface is concave and smooth below, for articula- tion with the os magnum ; rough above, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Lay it with its smaller nonarticular surface upwards, and the edge which separates the two concave articular facets forwards. The lower end of the bone will then curve away from the side to which it belongs.* Articulations. With four bones: the scaphoid above, second metacarpal bone below, trapezium externally, os magnum internally. Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Os Magnum is the largest bone of the carpus, and occupies the centre of the wrist. It presents above a rounded portion or head, which is received into the concavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones ; a constricted portion or neck ; and, below, the body. The superior surface is rounded, smooth, and articulates with the semilunar. The inferior surface is divided by two ridges into three facets, for articulation with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones ; that for the third (the middle facet) being the largest of the three. The posterior or dorsal surface is broad and rough ; the anterior or palmar, narrow, rounded, and also rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface articulates with the trapezoid by a small facet at its anterior inferior angle, behind which is a rough depression for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Above this is a deep and rough groove, which forms part of the neck, and serves for the attach- ment of ligaments, bounded superiorly by a smooth convex surface, for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface articulates with the unciform by a smooth, concave, oblong facet, which occupies its posterior and superior parts ; and is rough in front, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Lay it on the table with the narrower (convex) nonarticular surface upwards, and the head towards you. The prominent corner at the lower anterior part of the bone inclines aivay from the side to which it belongs. Articulations. With seven bones : the scaphoid and semilunar above ; the second, third, and fourth metacarpal below ; the trapezoid on the radial side ; and the unci- form on the ulnar side. Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Unciform bone may be readily distinguished by its wedge-shaped form, and the hook-like process that projects from its palmar surface. It is situated at the inner and lower angle of the carpus, with its base downwards, resting on the two inner metacarpal bones, and its apex directed upwards and outwards. The superior surface, the apex of the wedge, is narrow, convex, smooth, and articulates with the semilunar. The inferior surface articulates with the fourth and fifth meta- carpal bones, the concave surface for each being separated by a ridge, which runs from before backwards. The posterior or dorsal surface is triangular and rough, for ligamentous attachment. The anterior or palmar surface presents, at its lower and inner side, a curved hook-like process of bone, the unciform process, directed from the palmar surface forwards and outwards. It gives attachment, by its apex, to the annular ligament; by its inner surface, to the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti; and is grooved on its outer side, for the passage of the Flexor tendons into the palm of the hand. This is one of the four eminences on the front of the carpus, to which the anterior annular * If the bone be not well marked, the following method, suggested by Mr. E. J. Spitta, Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George's Hospital School, will be found more simple. Let the superior surface be directed towards the student, and the posterior upwards; the latter will then be found to present a wedge-shaped outline, the base of which points to the side to which the bone belongs.