ORGANS OF SENSE. 576 The Choroid is a thin, highly vascular membrane, of a dark brown or choco- late colonr, which invests the posterior five-sixths of the central part of the globe. It is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and terminates in front at the ciliary lio-ament, where it bends inwards, and forms on its inner surface a series of folds or plaitings, the ciliary processes. It is thicker behind than in front. Externally, it is connected by a fine cellular web (membrana fusca) with the inner surface of the sclerotic. Its inner surface is smooth, and lies in contact with the retina. The choroid is composed of three layers, external, middle, and internal. 303.—The Veins of the Choroid. (Enlarged.) The external layer consists, in part, of the larger branches of the short ciliary ' arteries, which run forwards between the veins before they bend downwards to terminate on the inner surface. This coat is formed, however, principally of veins, which are named, from their distribution, vence vorticosce. They converge to four or five equidistant trunks, which pierce the sclerotic midway between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Interspersed between the vessels are lodged dark star-shaped pigment^cells, the fibrous offsets from which, communicating with similar branchings from neighbouring cells, form a delicate network, which, towards the inner surface of the choroid, loses its pig- mentary character. The middle layer consists of an exceedingly fine capillary plexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels, and is known as the tunica Ruycldana. The network is close, and finer at the hinder part of the choroid than in front. About half an inch behind the cornea, its meshes become larger, and are continuous with those of the ciliary process. The internal, or pigmentary layer, is a delicate membrane, consisting of a single layer of hexagonal nucleated cells, loaded with pigment-granules, and applied to each other, so as to resemble a tesselated pavement. Each cell contains a nucleus, and is filled with grains of pigment, which are in greater abundance at the circumference of the cell. In perfect albinos this epithelium contains no pigment, nor is any present in the star-shaped cells found in the other layers of the choroid. The ciliary processes should now be examined: they may he exposed, either by detaching the iris from its connection with the ciliary ligament, or by making a transverse section of the globe, and examining them from behind. The Ciliary processes are formed by the plaiting and folding inwards of the middle and internal layers of the choroid, at its anterior margin, and are received