lxxx GENERAL ANATOMY. fiat plate. This nerve-end-plate is sometimes more like a membrane, at others like a system of fibres. In most cases the plate rests upon a base of grannies and finely-granular protoplasm; in other cases, there is no such support, and the nerve-plates then possess the so-called nerve-end- bulbs. The ends of the nerves never penetrate the interior of the con- tractile cylinder, nor does the plate ever embrace the whole circumference Fig. XXXIII.—Muscular fibres of Lacerta viridis with the terminations of nerves. a, Seen in profile; p p, the nerve-end-plates; s s, the base of the plate, consisting of a granular mass with nuclei, b, The same as seen in looking at a perfectly fresh fibre, the nervous ends being probably still excitable. (The forms of the variously-divided plate can hardly be represented in a woodcut by sufficiently delicate and pale contours to reproduce correctly what is seen in nature.) c, The same as seen two hours after death from poisoning by curare. of the cylinder. Short muscular fibres generally have only one nerve-end, while longer fibres have several.' It is right, however, to state that the most eminent English authority on this subject entirely denies the description above given, and ex- plains the appearances, figured by Kiihne and others, in a different manner. In a very interesting paper by Dr. Beale, published in 1867 * he endeavours to show that the nerve-hillocks of Doyere are merely accidental elevations produced by the sarcolemma being drawn up in a cone, as the nerve which is attached to it is stretched by the manipula- tion of the observer ; and with reference to the end-plates of Kiihne, he asserts that by his own method of examination he is able to follow the nerve-fibrils much beyond the point at which that author describes them as terminating. The appearance of their penetrating the sarcolemma he regards as an optical illusion, and the nuclei shown in the above figures are, according to him, situated outside of the muscular fibres on the point of junction of the fibrils which form the intricate and extensive plexus in which the nerves terminate, so that the nerves nowhere termi- nate in free ends, nor at any definite part of the fibre; but, on the con- trary, surround every point of the latter with a very close interlacement. By the kindness of Dr. Beale we are enabled to reproduce some of the figures representing preparations which he exhibited to the British Medical Association at Oxford in 1868, in illustration of this view. * On Anatomical Controversy. Beale's Archives, iv. 161.