lxxxiv GENERAL ANATOMY. at some considerable distance from the point at which they are distributed; they ramify in the loose areolar tissue connecting the artery with its sheath, and are distributed to the external and middle coats, and, according to Arnold and others, supply the internal coat. Minute veins serve to return the blood from these vessels; they empty themselves into the venae comites in connection with the artery. Arteries are also provided with nerves, which are derived chiefly from the sympathetic, but partly from the cerebro-spinal system. They form intricate plexuses upon the surfaces of the larger trunks, the smaller branches being usually accompanied by single filaments; their exact mode of distribution is unknown. According to Kolliker, the majority of the arteries of the brain and spinal cord, those of the choroid and of the placenta, as well as many arteries of muscles, glands, and membranes, are unprovided with nerves. The Capillaries.— The smaller arterial branches (excepting those of the cavernous structures of the sexual organs, and in the uterine placenta), terminate in a network of vessels which pervade nearly every tissue of the body. These vessels, from their minute size, are termed capillaries (capillus, 6 a hair'). They are interposed between the smallest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins, constituting a network, the branches of which maintain the same diameter throughout, the meshes of the network being more uniform in shape and size than those formed by the anastomoses of the small arteries and veins. The diameter of the capillaries varies in the different tissues of the body, their -usual size being about ^th of an inch. The smallest are those of the brain, and the mucous membrane of the intestines; the largest, those of the skin, and the marrow of bones. The form of the capillary net varies in the different tissues, being modifications chiefly of rounded or elongated meshes. The rounded form of mesh is most common, and prevails where there is a dense network, as in the lungs, in most glands and mucous membranes, and in the cutis; the meshes being more or less angular, sometimes nearly quadrangular, or polygonal; more frequently, irregular. Elongated meshes are observed in the bundles of fibres and tubes composing muscles and nerves, the meshes being usually of a parallelogram form, the long axis of the mesh running parallel with the long axis of the nerve or fibre. Sometimes, the capillaries have a looped arrangement, a single vessel projecting from the common network, and returning after forming one or more loops, as in the papillae of the tongue and skin. The number of the capillaries, and the size of the meshes, determines the degree of vascularity of a part. The closest network, and the smallest interspaces, are found in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the eye. In the liver and lung, the interspaces are smaller than the capillary vessels themselves. In the kidney, in the conjunctiva, and in the cutis, the interspaces are from three to four times as large as the capillaries which form them ; and in the brain from eight to ten times as large as the capillaries, in their long diameter, and from four to six times as large in their transverse diameter. In the cellular coat of the arteries, the width of the meshes is ten times that of the capillary