MUSCULAR TISSUE Lxi strice, which pass transversely round the fibre, in curved or wavy parallel directions, from T 0} 0 0 to P2W0 °f an ^ncn apart. Other striae pass lon- gitudinally over the fibres, indicating* the direction of the primitive fibrils of which the primitive fasciculus is composed. They are less distinct than the former. The primitive fibrils constitute the proper contractile tissue of the muscle. Each fibril is cylindriform, somewhat flattened, about -p^nnr °f Fig\ XX.—Fragments of striped elementary fibres, showing; a cleavage in opposite direc- tions, magnified 300 diameters, a, Longitudi- nal cleavage. The longitudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. This results from partial separation of the fibrillee. c, Fi- brilla3 separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those on the fibre, cf c", represent two appearnnces commonly presented by the separated single fibrilla3 (more highly magnified). At c' the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c" the borders are scalloped and the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearauces. b, Transverse cleavage The longitudinal lines are scarcely visible. Incomplete fracture following1 the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the interval, and retains the two fragments in con- nection. The edge and surfaces of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines, b, Another disc nearly detached, b', Detached disc, more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. Fig. XIX.—Two human muscular fibres, magnified 350 times. In the one, the bundle of fibrillar (b) is torn, and the sarcolemma (a) is seen as an empty tube. an inch in thickness, and marked by transverse strise placed at the same distance from each other as the striae on the surface of the fasciculus. Each fibril apparently consists of a single row of minute particles (named ' sarcous elements' by Bowman), connected together like a string of beads. Closer examination, however, shows that the elementary particles are little masses of pellucid substance, having a rectangular outline, and appearing dark in the centre. These appearances would favour the suggestion that the elementary particles of which the fibrils are composed are possibly nucleated cells, cohering in a linear series, the transverse marks between them corresponding to their line of junction. Kolliker,