234 MUSCLES AND FASCLE. the Tensor palati; and the Palato-pharyngei contract, and come nearly together, the nvula filling up the slight interval between them. By these means the food is prevented passing into the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares; at the same time, the latter muscles form an inclined plane, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, along which the morsel descends into the lower part of the pharynx. Surgical Anatomy. The muscles of the soft palate should be carefully dissected, the re- lations they bear to the surrounding' parts especially examined, and their action attentively studied upon the dead subject, as the surgeon is required to divide one or more of these muscles in the operation of staphy Ioraphy. Sir W. Fergusson has shown, that in the congenital deficiency, called cleft palate, the edges of the fissure are forcibly separated by the action of the Levatores palati and Palato-pharyngei muscles, producing very considerable impediment to the healing process after the performance of the operation for uniting their margins by j adhesion; he has, consequently, recommended the division of these muscles as one of the most important steps in the operation. This he effects by an incision made with a curved knife introduced behind the flap. The incision is to be half-way between the hamular process and Eustachian tube, and perpendicular to a line drawn between them. This incision perfectly accomplishes the division of the Levator palati. The Palato-pharyngeus may be divided by cutting across the posterior pillar of the soft palate, just below the tonsil, with a pair of blunt-pointed curved scissors; and the anterior pillar may be divided also. To divide the Levator palati, the plan recommended by Mr. Pollock is to be greatly preferred. The j flap being put upon the stretch, a double-edged knife is passed through the soft palate, just on the inner side of the hamular process, and above the line of the Levator palati. The handle being now alternately raised and depressed, a sweeping cut is made along the j posterior surface of the soft palate, and the knife withdrawn, leaving only a small opening in the mucous membrane on the anterior surface. If this operation is performed on the dead body, and the parts afterwards dissected, the Levator palati will be found completely divided. 7. Vertebral Region (Anterior). Rectus Capitis Anticus Majpr. Rectus Lateralis. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor. Longus Colli. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Major (fig. 158), broad and thick above, narrow (-j below, appears like a continuation upwards of the Scalenus anticus. It arises by four tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras, and ascends, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side, to be inserted into the basilar process of the occi- j pital bone. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the pharynx, the sympathetic nerve, and the sheath enclosing the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. By its posterior surface, with the Longus colli, the Rectus anticus minor, and the upper cervical vertebras. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor is a short flat muscle, situated immediately behind the upper part of the preceding. It arises from the anterior surface of the lateral mass of the atlas, and from the root of its transverse process, and passing obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the basilar process immediately behind the preceding muscle. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Rectus anticus major. By itsposte- rior surface, with the front of the occipito-atlantal articulation. Externally, with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The Rectus Lateralis is a short, flat muscle, which arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the internal jugular vein. By its posterior surface, with the vertebral artery. On its outer side lies the occipital artery. The Longus Colli is a long, flat muscle, situated on the anterior surface of the spine, between the atlas and the third dorsal vertebras. It is broad in the middle, narrow and pointed at each extremity, and consists of three portions, a superior oblique, an inferior oblique, and a vertical portion. The superior oblique portion