13 SACRUM. angle, called the promontory or sacro-vertrhral cuxjln, whilst its central part is directed backwards, so as to give increased capacity to the pelvic cavity. It pre- sents for examination an anterior and posterior surface, two lateral surfaces, a base, an apex, and a central canal. • The Anterior Surface is concave from above downwards, and slightly so from side to side. In the middle are seen four transverse ridges, indicating the original division of the bone into five separate pieces. The portions of bone intervening between the ridges correspond to the bodies of the vertebras. The body of the first segment is of large size, and in form resembles that of a lumbar vertebra ; the succeeding ones diminish in size from above downwards, are flattened from before backwards, and curved so as to accom- modate themselves to the form of the sacrum, being concave in front, convex behind. At each end of the ridges above- mentioned, are seen the anterior sacral farmnina, analogous to the intervertebral foramina, four in number on each side, somewhat rounded in form, diminish- ing in size from above downwards, and directed outwards and forwards ; they transmit the anterior branches of the sacral nerves. External to these fora- mina is the lateral mass, consisting, at an early period of life, of separate seg- ments, which correspond to the ante- rior transverse processes ; these become blended, in the adult, with the bodies, with each other, and with the posterior transverse processes. Each lateral mass is traversed by four broad shallow grooves, which lodge the anterior sacral nerves as they pass outwards, the grooves being separated by prominent ridges of bone, which give attachment to the slips of the Pyriformis muscle. If a vertical section is made through the centre of the bone (fig. 15), the bodies are seen to be united at their circumference by bone, a wide interval being left centrally, which, in the recent state, is filled by intervertebral sub- stance. In some bones, this union is more complete between the lower seg- ments than between the upper ones. The Posterior Surface (fig. 16) is convex and much narrower than the anterior. In the middle line are three or four tubercles, which represent the rudimentary spinous processes of the sacral vertebrae. Of these tubercles, the first is usually prominent, and perfectly distinct from the rest; the second and third are either separate, or united into a tubercular ridge, which diminishes in size from above downwards; the fourth usually, and the fifth always, remaining undeveloped. External to the spinous processes on each side, are the lamince,-broad and well marked in the first three pieces ; sometimes the fourth, and generally the fifth,, being un- developed ; in this situation the lower end of the sacral canal is exposed. External to the laminaa is a linear series of indistinct tubercles representing the articular processes ; the upper pair are large, well developed, and correspond in shape and direction to the superior articulating processes of a lumbar vertebra ; the second and third are small; the fourth and fifth, (usually blended together) are situated 15.—Vertical Section of the Sacrum.