617 THE CESOPHAGUS. In the thorax, it is at first situated a little to the left of the median line : it then passes across the left side of the transverse part of the aortic arch, and descends in the posterior mediastinum, along the right side of the aorta, nearly to the Diaphragm, where it passes in front and a little to the left of the artery, previous to entering the abdomen. It is in relation, in front, with the trachea, the arch of the aorta, the left bronchus, and the posterior surface of the pericardium; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column, the Longus colli, and the intercostal vessels ; and below, near the Diaphragm, upon the front of the aorta ; laterally, it is covered by the pleurae ; the vena azygos major lies on the right, and the descending aorta on the left side. The pneumogastric nerves descend in close contact with it, the right nerve passing down behind, and the left nerve in front of it. Surgical Anatomy.—The relations of the oesophagus are of considerable practical interest to the surgeon, as he is frequently required, in cases of stricture of this tube, to dilate the canal by a bougie, when it becomes of importance that the direction of the oesophagus, and its relations to surrounding parts, should be remembered. In cases of malignant disease of the oesophagus, where its tissues have become softened from infiltration of the morbid de- posit, the greatest care is requisite in directing the bougie through the strictured part, as a false passage may easily be made, and the instrument may pass into the mediastinum, or into one or the other pleural cavity, or even into the pericardium. The student should also remember that contraction of the oesophagus, and consequent symptoms of stricture, are occasionally produced by an aneurism of some part of the aorta pressing upon this tube. In such a case, the passage of a bougie could only hasten the fatal issue. It occasionally happens that a foreign body becomes impacted in the oesophagus, which can neither be brought upwards nor moved downwards. When all ordinary means for its removal have failed, excision is the only resource. This, of course, can only be performed when it is not very low down. If the foreign body is allowed to remain, extensive inflam- mation and ulceration of the oesophagus may ensue. In one case with which I am acquainted, the foreign body ultimately penetrated the intervertebral substance, and destroyed life by inflammation of the membranes and substance of the cord. The operation of oesophagotomy is thus performed. The patient being placed upon his back, with the head and shoulders slightly elevated, an incision, about four inches in length, should be made on the left side of the trachea, from the thyroid cartilage downwards, dividing the skin and Platysma. The edges of the wound being separated, the Omo-hyoid muscle, and the fibres of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, must be drawn inwards; the sheath of the carotid vessels being exposed, should be drawn outwards, and retained in that position by retractors; the oesophagus will then be exposed, and should be divided over the foreign body, which should then be removed. Great care is necessary to avoid wounding the thyroid vessels, the thyroid gland, and the laryngeal nerves. Structure. The oesophagus has three coats : an external, or muscular; a middle, or cellular ; and an internal, or mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed of two planes of fibres of considerable thickness, an external longitudinal, and an internal circular. The longitudinal fibres are arranged at the commencement of the tube, in three fasciculi: one in front, which is attached to the vertical ridge on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage; and one at each side, which are continuous with the fibres of the Inferior constrictor : as they descend they blend together, and I form a uniform layer, which covers the outer surface of the tube. The circular fibres are continuous above with the Inferior constrictor: their direction is transverse at the upper and lower parts of the tube, but oblique in the central part. The muscular fibres in the upper part of the oesophagus are of a red colour, and consist chiefly of the striped variety ; but below, they consist entirely of the invo- luntary muscular fibre. The cellular coat connects loosely the mucous and muscular coats. The mucous coat is thick, of a reddish colour above, and pale below. It is dis- posed in longitudinal folds, which disappear on distension of the tube. Its surface is studded with minute papillae, and it is covered throughout with a thick layer of squamous epithelium.