ARTICULATIONS. i6o more inferiorlv the inferior dental vessels and nerve separate it from the ramus of_ the jaw. Internally, it is in relation with the Internal pterygoid.* The Stylo-Maxillary Ligament is a thin aponeurotic cord, which extends from near -Temporo-Maxillary Articulation. Internal View. the apex of the styloid process of the temporal bone, to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw, between the Masseter, and Internal pterygoid muscles. This ligament separates the parotid from the sub-maxillary gland, and has attached to its inner side part of the fibres of origin of the Stylo-glossus muscle. Although usu- ally classed among the ligaments of the jaw, it can only be considered as an accessory in the articulation. Along with the stylo- maxillary ligament, may be described the stylo- hyoid ligament, although it is in no way connected with the functions of the lower jaw. This is a fibrous cord, which continues the styloid process down to the hyoid bone, being attached to the tip of the former and the small cornu of the latter. It is often more or less ossified. The Capsular Ligament consists of a thin and loose ligamentous capsule, attached above to the circumference of the glenoid cavity and the articular surface immediately in front; below, to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. It consists of a few thin scattered fibres, and can hardly be considered as a distinct ligament; it is thickest at the back part of the articulation. The Interarticular Fibro-cartilage (fig. 123) is a thin plate of an oval form, placed horizontally between the condyle of the jaw and the glenoid cavity. Its upper surface is concave from before backwards, and a little convex trans- versely, to accommodate itself to the form of the glenoid cavity. Its under surface, where it is in contact <. m *r with the condyle, is 123.—Vertical Section of Temporo-Maxillary Articulation. concave. Its circum- ference is connected ex- ternally to the external lateral ligament; inter- nally, to the capsular ligament; and in front to the tendon of the Ex- ternal pterygoid muscle. It is thicker at its cir- cumference, especially behind, than at its cen- tre, where it is some- times perforated. The * Dr. Humphry describes the internal portion of the capsular ligament separately, as the short internal lateral ligament; and it certainly seems as deserving of a separate descrip- tion as the external lateral ligament is.