743 FEMORAL HERNIA. The circumference of the ring is thus seen to be bounded by vessels in every part, excepting internally and behind. It is in the former position that the stricture is divided in cases of strangulated femoral hernia. The obturator artery, when it arises by a common trunk with the epigastric, which occurs once in every three subjects and a half, bears a very important rela- tion to the crural ring. In some cases it descends on the inner side of the exter- nal iliac vein to the obturator foramen, and will consequently lie on the outer side of the crural ring, where there is no clanger of its being wounded in the operation for dividing the stricture in femoral hernia. (See fig. 228, p. 402, 1st fig.) Occasionally, however, the obturator artery curves along the free margin of Grimbernat's ligament in its passage to the obturator foramen ; it would, conse- quently, skirt along the greater part of the circumference of the crural canal, and could hardly avoid being wounded in the operation. (See fig. 228, p. 402, 2nd fig.) Septum Crurale. The femoral ring is closed by a layer of condensed areolar tissue, called, by J. Cloquet, the septum crurale. This serves as a barrier to the protrusion of a hernia through, this part. Its upper surface is slightly concave, and supports a small lymphatic gland, by which it is separated from the subserous areolar tissue and peritoneum. Its under surface is turned towards the femoral canal. The septum crurale is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of lymphatic vessels, connecting the deep inguinal glands with those surrounding the external iliac artery. The size of the femoral canal, the degree of tension of its orifices, and, con- sequently, the degree of constriction of a hernia, vary according to the position of the limb. If the leg and thigh are extended, abducted, or everted, the femoral canal and its orifices are rendered tense, from the traction on these parts by Pouparfs ligament and the fascia lata, as may be ascertained by passing the finger along the canal. If, on the contrary, the thigh is fixed upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, adducted and rotated inwards, the femoral canal and its orifices become considerably relaxed ; for this reason, the limb should always be placed in the latter position when the application of the taxis is made in attempting the reduction of a femoral hernia. The septum crurale is separated from the peritoneum by a quantity of loose subserous areolar tissue. In some subjects, this tissue contains a considerable amount of adipose substance, which, when protruded forwards in front of the sac of a femoral hernia, may be mistaken for a portion of omentum. Descent of the Hernia. From the preceding description it follows, that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the abdominal wall ; hence it is, that when violent or long-continued pressure is made upon the abdominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced into it, constituting a femoral hernia; and the changes in the tissues of the abdomen which are produced by pregnancy, together with the larger size of this aperture in the female, serve to explain the frequency of this form of hernia in women. When a portion of intestine is forced through the femoral ring, it carries before it a pouch of peritoneum, which forms what is called the hernial sac ; it receives an investment from the subserous areolar tissue, and from the septum crurale, and descends vertically along the crural canal in the inner compartment of the sheath of the femoral vessels as far as the saphenous opening : at this point, it changes its course, being prevented from extending further down the sheath, on account of the narrowing of the sheath and its close contact with the vessels, and also from the close attachment of the superficial fascia and crural sheath to the lower part of the circumference of the saphenous opening ; the tumour is, consequently, directed forwards, pushing before it the cribriform fascia, and then curves upwards on to the falciform process of the fascia lata and lower part of the tendon of the External oblique, being covered by the superficial fascia and integument. While the hernia is contained in the femoral canal, it is usually of small size, owing to the resisting nature of the surrounding parts ; but when it has escaped from the saphenous opening into the loose areolar tissue of the groin, it becomes considerably enlarged.