BRAIN. lxix fibres. There are, in the first place, the nerves which arise in the grey matter, and pass ont through the cranial foramina. Next, the fibres which connect the brain with the spinal cord; that is to say, those which are usually traced upwards from the columns of the spinal cord, through the medulla oblongata into the cerebrum, chiefly by means of the anterior pyramids, fasciculi teretes and restiform bodies, passing through the Pons and crura cerebri to expand into the corpora striata, optic thai ami and convolutions (corona radiata), and, by means of the restiform bodies, into the cerebellum. The other two classes of white fibres in the brain are commissural; some of the commissures serving to connect different parts of the same hemisphere together (as the fornix, the processus e cerebello ad testes, &c), or even different parts of the same section or organ, as the arciform fibres of the medulla. Most of these commissures are longitudinal; while others—as the corpus callosum and the transverse fibres of the Pons Varolii—are transverse, serving to connect opposite hemispheres together, and thus probably securing the single action of a double organ. The following is Dr. Lockhart Clarke's account of the intimate struc- ture of the cerebral convolutions :— 6 Most of the convolutions, when properly examined, may be seen to consist of at least seven distinct and concentric layers of nervous substance, which are alternately paler and darker from the circumference to the centre. The laminated structure is most strongly marked at the extremity of the posterior lobe. In this situation all the nerve-cells are small, but differ considerably in shape, and are much more abundant in some layers than in others. In the superficial layer, which is pale, they are round, oval, fusiform, and angular, but not numerous. The second and darker layer is densely crowded with cells of a similar kind, in company with others that are pyriform and pyramidal, and lie with their tapering ends either towards the surface or parallel with it, in connection with fibres which run in corresponding directions. Tire broader ends of the pyramidal cells give olf two, three, four, or more processes, which run partly through the white axis of the convolution, and in part horizontally along the plane of the layer, to be continuous like those at the opposite ends of the cells, with nerve-fibres running in different directions. The third layer is of a much paler colour. It is crossed, however, at right angles by narrow and elongated groups of small cells and nuclei of the same general appearance as those of the preceding layer. These groups are separated from each other by bundles of fibres,, radiating towards the surface from the central white axis of the convolution, and together with them form a beautiful fanlike structure. The fourth layer also contains elongated groups of small cells and nuclei, radiating at right angles to its plane ; but the groups are broader, more regular, and, together with the bundles of fibres between them, present a more dis- dinctly fanlike structure. The fifth layer is again paler and somewhat white. It contains, however, cells and nuclei which have a general resemblance to those of the preceding layers, but they exhibit only a faintly radiating arrangement. The sixth and most internal layer is reddish grey. It not only abounds in cells like those already described, but contains others that are rather larger. It is only here and there that the cells are collected into elongated groups, which give the appearance