METACARPUS. 109 ligament is attached; the others being the pisiform internally, the oblique ridge of the trapezium and the tuberosity of the scaphoid externally. The internal sur- face articulates with the cuneiform by an oblong surface, cut obliquely from above, downwards and inwards. The external surface articulates with the os magnum by its upper and posterior part, the remaining portion being rough, for the attach- ment of ligaments. Lay it with the hooked process upwards, and the articular surface divided into two parts for the metacarpal bones forwards. The concavity of the process will be on the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With five bones : the semilunar above, the fourth and fifth meta- carpal below, the cuneiform internally, the os magnum externally. Attachment of Muscles. To two : the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, the Flexor ossis meta carpi minimi digiti ; and to the anterior annular ligament. The Metacarpus. The Metacarpal bones are five in number: they are long cylindrical bones presenting for examination a shaft, and two extremities. Common Characters of the Metacarpal Bones. The shaft is prismoid in form, and curved longitudinally, so as to be convex in the longitudinal direction behind, concave in front. It presents three surfaces : two lateral, and one posterior. The lateral surfaces are concave, for the attach- ment of the Interossei muscles, and separated from one another by a prominent line. The posterior or dorsal surface is triangular, smooth, and flattened below, and covered, in the recent state, by the tendons of the Extensor muscles. In its upper half it is divided by a ridge into two narrow lateral depressions, for the attachment of the Dorsal interossei muscles. This ridge bifurcates a little above the centre of the bone, and its branches run to the small tubercles on each side of the digital extremity. The carpal extremity, or base, is of a cuboidal form, and broader behind than in front: it articulates above with the carpus, and on each side with the adjoining metacarpal bones ; its dorsal and palmar surfaces being rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. The digital extremity, or head, presents an oblong surface, flattened at each side, for articulation with the first phalanx ; it is broader, and extends farther forwards in front than behind, and is longer in the antero-posterior than in the transverse diameter. On either side of the head is a deep depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for the attachment of the lateral ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The posterior surface, broad and flat, supports the Extensor tendons; the anterior surface presents a median groove, bounded on each side by a tubercle, for the passage of the Flexor tendons. Peculiar Characters of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is shorter and wider than the rest, diverges to a greater degree from the carpus, and its palmar surface is directed inwards towards the palm. The shaft is flattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and does not present the bifurcated ridge which is found on the other metacarpal bones ; it is concave from before backwards on its palmar surface. The carnal extremity, or base, presents a concavo-convex surface, for articulation with the trapezium, and has no lateral facets. The digital extremity is less convex than that of the other meta- carpal bones, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and terminates anteriorly in a small articular eminence on each side, over which play two sesamoid bones. The side to which this bone belongs may be known by observing the little facet, which is marked on the inner side of its posterior surface just above the base, for the tendon of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Mr. Holden directs