ARTICULATIONS. latter situation the fibres are exceedingly thick, and serve to fill up the concavities on their front surface, and to make the anterior surface of the spine more even. This ligament is composed of several layers of fibres, which vary in length, but are closely interlaced with each other. The most superficial or longest fibres extend between four or five vertebrae. A second subjacent set extend between two or three vertebrae; whilst a third set, the shortest and deepest, extend from one vertebra to the next. At the side of the bodies, the ligament consists of a few short fibres, which pass from one vertebra to the next, separated from the median portion by large oval apertures, for the passage of vessels. The Posterior Gommon Ligament (figs. 116, 120) is situated within the spinal canal, and extends along the posterior surface of the bodies of tlie vertebrae, from the body of the axis above, where it is continuous with the occipito-axoid ligament, to the sacrum below. It is broader at the upper than at the lower part of the spine, and thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions. In the situation of the intervertebral substance and contiguous margins of the vertebrae, where the ligament is more intimately adherent, it is broad, and presents a series of dentations with intervening concave margins ; but it is narrow and thick over the centre of the bodies, from which it is^sej^rated^ byjthe ^mnmb^is^ertebrm. This ligament is composed of smooth, shining, longitudinal fibres, denser and more com- pact than those of the anterior ligament, and composed of a superficial layer occupying the interval between three or four vertebrae, and of a deeper layer which extends between one vertebra and the next adjacent to it. It is separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by some loose filamentous tissue, very liable to serous infiltration. The Intervertebral Substance (fig. 116) is a lenticular disc of fibro-cartilage, in- terposed between the adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the 116.—Vertical Section of two Vertebrae and their Ligaments, from the Lumbar Region. ANTERIOR. POSTLRIOn COM IVtoN COMMON axis to the sacrum, and forming the chief bond of connection between those bones. These discs vary in shape, size, and thickness, in different parts of the spine. In shape they accurately correspond with the surfaces of the bodies between which they are placed, being oval in the cervical and lumbar regions, and circular in the