701 BLADDER. upwards ; it is connected to tbe umbilicus by a fibro-nmscular cord, the urachus, and also by means of two rounded fibrous cords, tbe obliterated portions of the hypogastric arteries, which are placed one on each side of the urachus. The summit of the bladder behind the urachus is covered by peritoneum, whilst the portion in front of the urachus has no peritoneal covering, but rests upon the abdominal wall. The urachus is tlie obliterated remains of a tubular canal which exists in the embryo, and connects the cavity of the bladder with a membranous sac placed external to the abdomen, opposite the umbilicus, called the aUcmtois. In the infant, at birth, it is occasionally found pervious, so that the urine escapes at the umbilicus, and calculi have been found in its canal. The hotly of the bladder in front is not covered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the triangular ligament of the urethra, the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, the Internal obturator muscles, and, when distended, with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface is covered by peritoneum throughout. It corresponds, in the male, with the rectum ; in the female, with the uterus, some convolutions of the small intestine being interposed. The side of the bladder is crossed obliquely from below, upwards and forwards, by the obliterated hypogastric artery : above and behind this cord, the bladder is covered by peritoneum; bat below and in front of it the serous covering is wanting, and it is connected to the pelvic fascia. The vas deferens passes, in an arched direction, from before backwards, along the side of the bladder, towards its base, crossing in its course the obliterated hypogastric arterjr, and passing along the inner side of the ureter. The hase (fundus) of the bladder is directed downwards and backwards. It varies in extent according to the state of distension of the organ, being very broad when full, but much narrower when empty. In the male, it rests upon the second portion of the rectum, from which it is separated by a reflection of the recto-vesical fascia, It is covered posteriorly, for a slight extent, by the peritoneum, which is reflected from it upon the rectum, forming the recto-vesical fold. The portion of the bladder in relation with the rectum corresponds to a triangular space, bounded behind by the recto-vesical fold ; on either side, by the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens ; and touching the prostate gland in front. When the bladder is very full, the peritoneal fold is raised with it, and the distance between its reflection and the anus is about four inches ; but this dis- tance is much diminished when the bladder is empty and contracted. In the female, the base of the bladder lies in contact with the lower part of the cervix uteri, is adherent to the anterior wall of the vagina, and separated from the upper part of the anterior surface of the cervix uteri by a fold of the peritoneum. The neck (cervix) of the bladder is the constricted portion continuous with the urethra. In the male, its direction is oblique in the erect posture, and it is sur- rounded by the prostate gland. In the female, its direction is obliquely downwards and forwards. Ligaments. The bladder is retained in its place by ligaments which are divided into true and false. The true ligaments are five in number, two anterior, and two lateral, formed by the recto-vesical fascia, and the urachus. The false ligaments, also five in number, are formed by folds of the peritoneum. The anterior ligaments doubo-prostatic) extend from the back of the pubes, one on each side of the symphysis, to the front of the neck of the bladder, and upper surface of the prostate gland. These ligaments contain a few muscular fibres prolonged from the bladder. The lateral ligaments, broader and thinner than the preceding, are attached to the lateral parts of the prostate, and to the sides of the base of the bladder. The urachus is the fibro-muscular cord already mentioned, extending between the summit of the bladder and the umbilicus. It is broad below, at its attachment to the bladder, and becomes narrower as it ascends.