36° ARTERIES. Plan of Relations of First Portion of Left Subclavian Artery. In f ront. Pleura and left lung. Pneurnogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves. Left carotid artery. Left internal jugular and innominate veins. Sterno-thyroid, fSterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles. Inner side. f _ Left \ Outer side. Esophagus, rachea. Thoracic duct. (Esophagus. ( Artery. J Pleura. Trachea. Behind. Oesophagus and thoracic duct. Inferior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Longus colli and vertebral column. Second and Third Parts of the Subclavian Artery. (Fig. 207.) The Second Portion of the Subclavian Artery lies behind the Scalenus anticus muscle; it is very short, and forms the highest part of the arch described by that vessel. 'Relations. It is covered, in front, by the integument, Platysma, Sterno-mastoid, cervical fascia, and by the phrenic nerve, which is separated from the artery by the Scalenus anticus muscle. Behind, it is in relation with the Middle Scalenus. Above, with the brachial plexus of nerves. Below, with the pleura. The subcla- vian vein lies below and in front of the artery, separated from it by the Scalenus anticus. Plan of Relations of Second Portion of Subclavian Artery. In front. Scalenus anticus. Phrenic nerve. Subclavian vein. Above. I Subciavian \ Below. Brachial plexus. BeotofSuan. Pleura> Behind. . Pleura and Middle Scalenus. The Third Portion of the Subclavian Artery passes downwards and outwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. This portion of the vessel is the most superficial, and is contained in a triangular space, the base of which is formed in front by the Sterno-mastoid, and the two sides by the Omo-hyoid above and the clavicle below. Relations. It is covered, in front, by the integument, the superficial fascia, the Platysma, deep fascia ; and by the clavicle, the Subclavius muscle, and the supra- scapular artery and vein; the clavicular descending branches of the cervical plexus and the nerve to the subclavius pass vertically downwards in front of the artery. The external jugular vein crosses it at its inner side, and receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of it. The subclavian vein is below the artery, lying close behind the clavicle. Behind, it lies on the Middle Scalenus muscle. Above it, and to its outer side, is