735 DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. all that is necessary for the replacement of the hernia. If in the inguinal canal, or at the internal ring, it will be necessary to divide the aponeurosis of the External oblique so as to lay open the inguinal canal. In dividing the stricture, the direction of the incision should be directly upwards. When the intestine passes along the spermatic canal, and escapes from the external ring into the scrotum, it is called complete oblique inguinal, or scrotal hernia. If the intestine does not escape from the external ring, but is retained in the inguinal canal, it is called incomplete inguinal hernia or bubonocele. In each of these cases, the coverings which invest it will depend upon the extent to which it descends in the inguinal canal. There are two other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia : the congenital, and infantile. Congenital hernia is liable to occur in those cases where the pouch of perito- neum which accompanies the cord and testis in its descent in the foetus remains unclosed, and communicates directly with the peritoneum. The intestine descends along this pouch into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and lies in contact with the testis. This form of hernia has no proper sac, being contained within the tunica vaginalis. In Infantile hernia, the hernial sac descends along the inguinal canal into the scrotum, behind the pouch of peritoneum which accompanies the cord and testis into the same part. The abdominal aperture of this pouch is closed, but the portion contained in the inguinal canal remains unobliterated. The hernial sac is consequently invested, more or less completely, by the posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis from which it is separated by a little loose areolar tissue: so that in operating upon this variety of hernia, three layers of peritoneum would require division; the first and second being the layers of the tunica vaginalis, the third the anterior layer of the hernial sac. Direct Inguinal Hernia. In direct inguinal hernia, the protrusion makes its way through some part of the abdominal wall internal to the epigastric artery, and passes directly through the abdominal parietes and external ring. At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a triangular space (Hesselbach's triangle), bounded, externally, by the epigastric artery ; internally, by the margin of the Rectus muscle; below, by Poupart's ligament. The conjoined tendon is stretched across the inner two- thirds of this space, the remaining portion of the space being filled in by the transversalis fascia. In some cases the hernial protrusion escapes from the abdomen on the outer side of the conjoined tendon, pushing before it the peritoneum, the subserous cel- lular tissue, and the transversalis fascia. It then enters the inguinal canal, passing along nearly its whole length, and finally emerges from the external ring, receiving an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. The coverings of this form of hernia are precisely similar to those investing the oblique form.* * The difference between the position of the neck of the sac in these two forms of direct inguinal hernia has been referred, with some probability, to a difference in the relative posi- tions of the obliterated hypogastric artery and the epigastric artery. The projection of the hypogastric artery towards the cavity of the abdomen produces two fosses in the peritoneum. When the course of the obliterated hypogastric artery corresponds pretty nearly with that of the epigastric, which is regarded as the normal arrangement, the bottom of the external fossa of the peritoneum corresponds to the position of the internal abdominal ring; and a hernia which distends and pushes out the peritoneum lining this fossa is an oblique hernia. When, on the other hand, the obliterated hypogastric artery lies considerably to the inner side of the epigastric, it divides the triangle of Hesselbach into two parts. In that case a hernia may distend and push out the peritoneum forming the bottom of the external fossa, and by so doing will protrude the tissues which form the abdominal wall between the internal ring and the conjoined tendon. It will be a direct hernia, since the neck of the sac lies internal to the epigastric artery : but its coverings, as stated in the text, will be identical with those of the oblique form, with the insignificant difference that the covering from the transversalis fascia is taken from another source, and not from its infundibuliform process.