MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 256 Intercostal Fasciae,. A thin but firm layer of fascia covers the outer surface of the External intercostal and the inner surface of the Internal intercostal muscles; and a third layer, more delicate, is interposed between the two planes of muscular ' fibres. These are the intercostal fasciae ; they are best marked in those situations where the muscular fibres are deficient, as between the External intercostal muscles and sternum, in front; and between the Internal intercostals and spine, behind. The Intercostal Muscles (fig. 170) are two thin planes of muscular and tendinous structure, placed one over the other, filling up the intercostal spaces, and being directed obliquely between the margins of the adjacent ribs. They have received the name ' external' and 1 internal,' from the position they bear to one another. The External Intercostals are eleven in number on each side, being attached to the adjacent margins of each pair of ribs, and extending from the tubercles of the ribs, behind, to the commencement of the cartilages of the ribs, in front, where they terminate in a thin membranous aponeurosis, which is continued for- wards to the sternum. They arise from the outer lip of the groove on the lower border of each rib, and are inserted into the upper border of the rib below. In the two lowest spaces they extend to the end of the ribs. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, in a similar direction with those of the External oblique muscle. They are thicker than the Internal intercostals. Relations. By their outer surface, with the muscles which immediately invest the chest, viz. the Pectoralis major and minor, Serratus magnus, and Hhomboideus major, Serratus posticus superior and inferior, Scalenus posticus, Sacro-lumbalis, Longissimus dorsi, Cervicalis ascendens, Transversalis colli, Levatores costarum, and the Obliquus externus abdominis. By their internal surface, with a thin layer of fascia, which separates them from the intercostal vessels and nerve, and the Internal intercostal muscles, and, behind, from the pleura. The Internal Intercostals, also eleven in number on each side, are placed on the inner surface of the preceding, commencing anteriorly at the sternum, in the interspaces between the cartilages of the true ribs, and from the anterior extre- mities of the cartilages of the false ribs ; and extend backwards as far as the > angles of the ribs, where they are continued to the vertebral column by a thin 1 aponeurosis. They arise from the inner lip of the groove on the lower border of each rib, as well as from the corresponding costal cartilage, and are inserted into the upper border of the rib below. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and backwards, decussating with the fibres of the preceding. Relations. By their external surface, with the External intercostals, and the intercostal vessels and nerves. By their internal surface, with the Pleura costalis, Triangularis sterni, and Diaphragm. The Intercostal muscles consist of muscular and tendinous fibres, the latter being longer and more numerous than the former ; hence the walls of the intercostal spaces possess very considerable strength, to which the crossing of the muscular fibres materially contributes. A muscle or muscular slip is occasionally found running more or less vertically upwards over the anterior parts of the ribs, which has been named 1 Supracostal muscle ' by Mr. J. Wood (' Proc. Royal Soc.,' June 15, 1865), and 1 Pectus thoracis ' by Prof. Turner (' Journ. of Anat. and Phys.' ser. 2, No. II., p. 392). The latter writer conjectures that it is homo- logous with the prolongation of the Rectus .abdominis muscle to the thorax, which is met with in some animals. In a case figured by Prof. Turner, the muscle arose by two heads, one from the fifth rib (the breadth of which alone separated it from the Rectus abdominis) and the other from the fourth, and ascended beneath the Pectoralis major muscle to be inserted into the first rib, close to the tendon of the Subclavius muscle. The Infracostales consist of muscular and aponeurotic fasciculi, which vary in number and length ; they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are inserted into the inner surface of the first, second, or third rib below. Their direction is j most usually oblique, like the Internal intercostals. They are most frequent between the lower ribs. The Triangularis Sterni is a thin plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, , Jy