694 URINARY ORGANS. the loop and the straight tube is sometimes called the intercalated convoluted tube (b', fig. 380.) The tubes taking the course above described form a kind of loop, 380. A. Malpigliian body. B. Convoluted uriniferous tube. B'. Portion intervening between the straight tube and the loop of Henle (intercalated convoluted tube of Schaltstlick). CC. Looped tube of Henle. D. Straight tube. and are known as the looped or recurrent tubes of Henle, the descending and ascending limbs of which have the diameter of suVo^ an<^ To\njtn of an inch respectively. The ascending limbs having arrived at the cortical structure, become again convoluted, and, together with those of the tubuli contorti which have not entered into the loops, end in the straight tubes, or tubuli recti, next to be described. Each straight, otherwise called a collecting or receiving tube, commences at about one line from the surface of the kidney by the coalescence of two or more of the convoluted tubes above men- tioned. Passing towards the medullary substance., it continues to receive on either side more con- voluted tubes, until at length it enters a pyramid of Malpighi, where it joins at very acute angles with receiving tubes similarly formed, and finally terminates by an opening at the mamillary apex, emptying its contents into the calyx adjacent. According to Huschke there are about a thousand straight tubes opening upon the apex of each pyramid, but their number is estimated by Kolliker at about five hundred. It will be seen from the above description, that 'each of the straight tubes whilst in the cortical structure is surrounded by numerous tubuli con- torti ; and hence, that a kind of pyramid is formed ; the apex of which consists of the tubulus rectus as it enters the Malpigliian pyramid, whilst the base, composed of the commencing straight tube with the tubuli contorti from which A A. Diagrammatical sketch of a pyramid of Ferrein. B B. Margin of medullary structure. C C C. Loops of Henle. DDD. Straight tubes cut off, E. Com- mencing straight tubes. F. Termina- tion of straight tube. it originates, looks towards the