cxxix CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE. well developed at the period shown by No. iii. of the preceding diagrams, where the anus is separated from the urogenital sinus, yet no distinction of sex is possible. Female organs (Fig. LXIL, A, B, C).—The female organs are developed by an easy transition from the above form. The urogenital sinus persists as the vestibule of the vagina, and forms a single tube with the upper part of the vagina, which we have already seen developed from the united Miillerian ducts. The genital tubercle forms the clitoris, the genital folds the labia majora, the lips of the genital furrow the labia minora, the genital furrow remaining open except below where it unites with the perinseum, constituting the raphe. Male organs.—In the male, the changes are greater from the indifferent type. The genital tubercle is developed into the penis, the glans appear- ing in the third month, the prepuce and corpora cavernosa in the fourth. The genital furrow closes, and thus forms a canal, the spongy portion of the urethra. The urogenital sinus becomes elongated, and forms the prostatic and membranous urethra. The genital folds unite in the middle line, to form the scrotum, at about the same time as the genital furrow closes, viz., between the third and fourth month. The following table is translated from the work of Beaunis and Bou- chard, with some very unimportant alterations.* It will serve to present a resume of the above facts in an easily accessible form. CHBONOLOG-ICAL TABLE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OE THE ECETUS. (From Beauistts and Bottchakd.) End ofsecond week.—Formation of the amnion and umbilical vesicle. Chorda dorsalis and medullary groove. Heart. Beginning of third week.—The vitelline membrane has entirely disappeared. Protovertebral discs. First pharyngeal arch. Buccal depression. Primitive circulation. End of third week.—The allantois and "Wolffian body appear. The amnion is closed. Cerebral vesicles. Primitive ocular and auditory vesicles. Coalescence of the inferior maxillary protuberances. Liver. Formation of the three last pharyngeal arches. Fourth week.—The umbilical vesicle has attained its full development. Projection of the caudal extremity. Projection of the upper and lower limbs. Cloacal aperture. The heart separates into a right and left heart. Spinal ganglia and anterior roots. Olfac- tory fosste. Lungs. Pancreas. * It will be noticed that the time assigned in this table for the appearance of the first rudiment of some of the bones (e.g. the ilium), varies in some cases from that assigned on p. lviii. This is a point on which anatomists differ, and which probably varies in different cases. h