117 OS INNOMINATUM. —their point of junction being indicated in the adult by a rough eminence. The outer surface of thy* ramus is rough, for the attachment of the Obturator externus muscle, also some fibres of the Adductor magnus, and of the Gracilis; its inner surface forms part of the anterior wall of the pelvis. Its inner border is thick, rough, slightly everted, forms part of the outlet of the pelvis, and serves for the attachment of the crus penis. Its outer border is thin and sharp, and forms part of the inner margin of the obturator foramen. The Pubes forms the anterior part of the os innominatum ; it is divisible into a horizontal ramus or body, and a perpendicular ramus. The body, or horizontal ramus, presents for examination two extremities, an outer and an inner, and four surfaces. The outer extremity, the thickest part of the bone, forms one-fifth of the cavity of the acetabulum ; it presents, above, a rough eminence, the ilio-pectineal, which serves to indicate the point of junction of the ilium and pubes. The inner extremity is the symphysis; it is oval, covered by eight or nine transverse ridges, or a series of nipple-like processes arranged in rows, separated by grooves; they serve for the attachment of the connecting fibro-cartilage, placed between it and the opposite bone. The upper surface, triangular in form, wider externally than internally, is bounded behind by a sharp ridge, the pectineal line, or linea ilio-pectinea, which, running outwards, marks the brim of the true pelvis. The surface of bone in front of the pubic portion of the linea ilio-pectinea, serves for the attachment of the Pectineus muscle. This ridge terminates internally at a tubercle, which projects forwards, and is called the spine of the pubes. The portion of bone included between the spine and inner extre- mity of the pubes is called the crest; it serves for the attachment of the Rectus, Pyramidalis, and conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis. The point of junction of the crest with the symphysis is called the angle of the pubes. The inferior surface presents, externally, a broad and deep oblique groove, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve ; and, internally, a sharp margin, which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. Its external surface, flat and compressed, serves for the attachment of muscles. Its internal surface, convex from above downwards, concave from side to side, is smooth, and forms part of the anterior wall of the pelvis. The descending ramus of the pubes passes outwards and downwards, becoming thinner and narrower as it descends, and joins with the ramus of the ischium. Its external surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles ; the Adductor longus above, the Adductor brevis below ; the Gracilis along its inner border, the Com- pressor urethra? towards its internal aspect; and a portion of the Obturator externus where it enters into the formation of the foramen of that name. Its inner surface is smooth. Its inner border is thick, rough, and everted, especially in females. In the male it serves for the attachment of the crus penis. Its outer border forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. The cotyloid cavity, or acetabulum, is a deep, cup-shaped, hemispherical de- pression ; formed, internally, by the pubes, above by the ilium, behind and below by the ischium ; a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more than two-fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubes. It is bounded by a prominent uneven rim, which is thick and strong above, and serves for the attachment of a fibro-cartilaginous structure which contracts its orifice, and deepens the surface for articulation. It presents on its inner side a deep notch, the cotyloid notch, which transmits the nutrient vessels into the interior of the joint, and is continuous with a circular depression at the bottom of the cavity: this depression is perforated by numerous apertures, lodges a mass of fat, and its margins serve for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The notch is converted, in the natural state, into a foramen by a dense ligamentous band which passes across it. Through this foramen the nutrient vessels and nerves enter the joint. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large aperture, situated between the ischium and pubes. In the male it is large, of an oval form, its longest diameter being obliquely from above downwards ; in the female it is smaller, and more tri-