ARTICULATIONS. laterally, with the rami of the pubes. Its fibres are of a yellowish colour, closely connected, and have an arched direction. The Interposed Fibro-Cartilage consists of two oval-shaped plates, one covering the surface of each symphysis pubis. They vary in thickness in different subjects, and project somewhat beyond the level of the bones, especially behind. The outer surface of each plate is firmly connected to the bone by a series of nipple-like processes, which accurately fit within corresponding depres- sions on the osseous surface. Their opposed surfaces are connected in the greater part of their extent, by an intermediate elastic fibrous tissue ; and. by their circumference to the various ligaments surrounding the joint. An interspace is left between the plates at the upper and back part of the articulation, where the fibrous tissue is deficient, and the surface of the fibro-cartilage is lined by epithelium. This space is found at all periods of life, both in the male and female ; but it is larger in the latter, especially during pregnancy, and after parturition. It is most frequently limited to the upper and back part of the joint; 129.—Vertical Section of the Symphysis Pubis. Made near its Posterior Surface. but it occasionally reaches to the front, and may extend the entire length of the cartilages. This structure may be easily demonstrated, by making a vertical section of the symphysis pubis near its posterior surface. The Obturator Ligament is more properly regarded as analogous to the mus- cular fascia?, with which it will therefore be described. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The articulations of the Upper Extremity may be arranged in the following groups :—I. Sterno-clavicular articulation. II. Scapulo-clavicular articulation. III. Ligaments of the Scapula. IV. Shoulder-joint. V. Elbow-joint. VI. Radio-ulnar articulations. VII. Wrist-joint. VIII. Articulations of the Carpal bones. IX. Carpo-metacarpal articulations. X. Metacarpophalangeal articulations. XI. Articulations of the Phalanges. I. Stern c-Clavicular Articulation. (Fig. 130.) The Sterno-Clavicular is an arthrodial joint. The parts entering into its formation are the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper and lateral part of the first piece of the sternum, and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surface