143 PHALANGES. Phalanges. The Phalanges of the foot, both in number and general arrangement, resemble those in the hand ; there being two in the great toe, and three in each of the other toes. The phalanges of the first row resemble closely those of the hand. The shaft is compressed from side to side, convex above, concave below. The posterior extremity is concave; and the anterior extremity presents a trochlear surface, for articulation with the second phalanges. The phalanges of the second row are remarkably small and short, but rather broader than those of the first row. The ungual phalanges, in form, resemble those of the fingers ; but they are smaller, flattened from above downwards, presenting a broad base for articulation with the second row, and an expanded extremity for the support of the nail and end of the toe. Articulation. The first row, with the metatarsal bones, and second phalanges ; the second of the great toe, with the first phalanx, and of the other toes, with the first and third phalanges; the third with the second row. Attachment of Muscles. To the first phalanges, great toe : innermost tendon of Extensor brevis digitorum, Abductor pollicis, Adductor rjollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Transversus pedis. Second toe: First and Second dorsal interosseous. Third toe : Third dorsal and First plantar interosseous. Fourth toe: Fourth dorsal and Second plantar interosseous. Fifth toe : Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Abductor minimi digiti, and Third plantar interosseous.—Second phalanges, great toe: Extensor longus pollicis, Flexor longus pollicis. Other toes : Flexor brevis digi- torum, one slip from the Extensor brevis digitorum (except in the little toe), and Extensor longus digitorum.—Third phalanges : two slips from the common tendon of the Extensor longus and Extensor brevis digitorum, and the Flexor longus digi- torum. Development op the Foot. (Fig. 115.) The Tarsal bones are each developed by a single centre, excepting the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior extremity. The centres make their appear- ance in the following order : os calcis, at the sixth month of foetal life ; astragalus, about the seventh month; cuboid, at the ninth month; external cuneiform, during the first year; internal cuneiform in the third year ; middle cuneiform and scaphoid in the fourth year. The epiphysis for the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis appears at the tenth year, and unites with the rest of the bone soon after puberty. I The Metatarsal bones are each developed by two centres: one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, in the four outer metatarsal; one for the shaft, and one for the base, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the seventh week, and extends towards either ex- tremity, and in the digital epiphyses about the third year; they become joined j between the eighteenth and twentieth years. The Phalanges are developed by two centres for each bone : one for the shaft, and one for the metatarsal extremity. Sesamoid Bones. These are small rounded masses, cartilaginous in early life, osseous in the adult, which are developed in those tendons which exert a great amount of pressure upon the parts over which they glide. It is said that they are more commonly found in the male than in the female, and in persons of an active muscular habit than in those who are weak and debilitated. They are invested throughout their whole Surface by the fibrous tissue of the tendon in which they are found, excepting upon that side which lies in contact with the part over which they play, where they present a free articular facet. They may be divided into two kinds : those which