754 PARTS CONCERNED IN LITHOTOMY. withdrawn, and the fore-finger of the left hand passed along the staff into the bladder : the staff having been withdrawn, and the position of the stone ascer- tained, the forceps are introduced over the finger into the bladder. If the stone is very large, the opposite side of the prostate may be notched before the forceps are introduced: the finger is now withdrawn, and the blades of the forceps opened and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious un- dulating movements. Parts divided in the operation. The various structures divided in this operation are as follows :—the integument, superficial fascia, external hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urinee, the Transversus perinaei muscle and artery (and, probably, the superficial perineal vessels and nerves), the deep perinEeal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor urethra?, the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, and part of the prostate gland. 409.—A Transverse Section of the Pelvis ; showing the Pelvic Fascia. Parts to be avoided in the operation. In making the necessary incisions in the perinceum for the extraction of a calculus, the following parts should be avoided. The primary incisions should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or the rectum ; nor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be implicated as it ascends along the inner border of the pubic arch. If the incisions are carried too far forward the artery of the bulb may be divided ; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, which allows the urine to become infiltrated behind the pelvic fascia into the loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, instead of escaping externally ; diffuse inflammation is consequently set up, and peritonitis from the close proximity of the recto-vesical peritoneal fold is the consequence. If, on the contrary, the prostate is divided in front of the base of the gland, the urine makes its way externally, and there is less danger of infiltration taking place. During the operation it is of great importance that the finger should be passed