172 ARTICULATIONS. the first rib, at its junction with the sternum : and by its circumference to the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments. It is thicker at the circum- ference, especially its upper and back part, than at its centre, or below. It divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a separate synovial membrane ; when the fibro-cartilage is perforated, which not unfrequently occurs, the synovial membranes communicate. Of the two Synovial Membranes found in this articulation, one is reflected from the sternal end of the clavicle, over the adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage, and cartilage of the first rib ; the other is placed between the articular surface of the sternum and adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage ; the latter is the more loose of the two. They seldom contain much synovia. Actions. This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder, and admits of motion in nearly every direction—upwards, downwards, backwards, forwards, as well as circumduction. ' The movements attendant on elevation and depression of the shoulder take place between the clavicle and the interarticular ligament, the bone rotating upon the ligament on an axis drawn from before back- wards through its own articular facet. When the shoulder is moved forwards and backwards, the clavicle, with the interarticular ligament, rolls to and fro on the articular surface of the sternum, revolving, with a slightly sliding movement, round an axis drawn nearly vertically through the sternum. In the circumduction of the shoulder, which is compounded of these two movements, the clavicle revolves upon 1 the interarticular cartilage, and the latter, with the clavicle, rolls upon the sternum.' * II. Scapuloclavicular Articulation. (Fig. 131.) The Scapulo-Clavicular is an arthrodial joint, formed between the outer extre- mity of the clavicle, and the upper edge of the acromion process of the scapula. Its ligaments are the Superior Acromio-Clavicular. Inferior Acromio-Clavicular. f Trapezoid Coraco-Clavicular < and I I Conoid. ' Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage. The Superior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament is a broad band, of a quadrilateral form, which covers the superior part of the articulation, extending between the j upper part of the outer end of the clavicle, and the adjoining part of the acromion. ! It is composed of parallel fibres, which interlace with the aponeurosis of the i Trapezius and Deltoid muscles ; below, it is ki contact with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes. The Inferior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament, somewhat thinner than the preceding, covers the under part of the articulation, and is attached to the adjoining surfaces of the two bones. It is in relation, above, with the interarticular fibro-carfcilage (when it exists) and the synovial membranes ; below, with the tendon of the j Supraspinatus. These two ligaments are continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a complete capsule around the joint. The Coraco-Clavicular Ligament serves to connect the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula. It consists of two fasciculi, called the trapezoid and conoid ligaments. The trapezoid ligament, the anterior and external fasciculus, is broad, thin, and quadrilateral: it is placed obliquely between the coracoid process and the clavicle. It is attached, below, to the upper surface of the coracoid process ; above, to the oblique line on the under surface of the clavicle. Its anterior border is free; its posterior border is joined with the conoid ligament, the two forming by their junction a projecting angle. * Humphry, On the Human Skeleton, p. 402,