OF THE TARSUS. 201 surface of the cuboid bone behind the peroneal groove. A separate synovial mem- brane is found in the calcaneo-cuboid articulation. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the scaphoid are two in number :— Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. The Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid (fig. 144) arises, as already mentioned, with the internal calcaneo-cuboid in the deep groove between the astragalus and os calcis ; it passes forwards from the inner side of the anterior extremity of the os calcis to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind, but separated in front. The Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid (fig. 145) is by far the larger and stronger of the two ligaments of this articulation; it is a broad and thick band of fibres, which passes forwards and inwards from the anterior and inner extremity of the os calcis to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. This ligament not only serves to con- nect the os calcis and scaphoid, but supports the head of the astragalus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received. The upper surface is lined by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articula- j tion. Its under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus ! muscle.* The articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid is an arthrodial joint; the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by the pos- 146.—Oblique Section of the Articulations of the Tarsus and Metatarsus. Showing the Six Synovial Membranes. terior surface of the scaphoid, the anterior articulating surface of the calcaneum, and the upper surface of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which fills up the triangular interval between those bones. The only ligament of this joint is the superior astragalo-scaphoid, a broad band, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus to the superior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is thin and weak m texture, and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid supplies the place of an inferior ligament. The Synovial Membrane which lines the joint is continued forwards from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. This articulation permits of considerable mobility; but its feebleness is such as to allow occasionally of dislocation of the astragalus. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 146) found in the articulations of the tarsus, are four in number : one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a second * Mr. Hancock describes an extension of this ligament upwards on the inner side of the t, which completes the socket of the joint in that direction. Lancet, 1666, vol. i. p. 618.