294 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E. the lumbar region of tlie spine and margin of the pelvis. It arises from the sides of the bodies, from the corresponding intervertebral substances, and from the front of the bases of the transverse processes of the last dorsal and all the lumbar ver- tebra?. The muscle is connected to the bodies of the vertebrae by five slips; each slip is attached to the upper and lower margins of two vertebras, and to the inter- vertebral substance between them; the slips themselves being connected by the tendinous arches which extend across the constricted part of the bodies, and beneath which pass the lumbar arteries and sympathetic nerves. These tendinous arches also give origin to muscular fibres, and protect the blood-vessels and nerves from pressure during the action of the muscle. The first slip is attached to the contiguous margins of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebras ; the last to the contiguous margins of the fourth and fifth lumbar, and to the intervertebral substance. From these points the muscle passes down across the brim of the pelvis, and diminishing gradually in size, passes behind Poupart's ligament, and terminates in a tendon, which, after receiving the fibres of the Iliacus, is inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur. Relations, In the lumbar region. By its anterior surface, which is placed behind the peritoneum, with the iliac fascia, the ligamentum arcuatum internum, the kidney, Psoas parvns, renal vessels, ureter, spermatic vessels, genito-crural nerve, the colon, and along its pelvic border, with the common and external iliac artery and vein. By its posterior surface, with the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, and the Quadratus lumborum, from which it is separated by the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the Transversalis. The anterior crural nerve is at first situated in the substance of the muscle, and emerges from its outer border at the lower part. The lumbar plexus is situated in the posterior part of the substance of the muscle. By its inner side, the muscle is in relation with the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, the lumbar arteries, the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, and their branches of communication with the spinal nerves; the lumbar glands ; the vena cava inferior on the right, and the aorta on the left side. In the thigh it is in relation, in front, with the fascia lata ; behind, with the capsular ligament of the hip, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, which sometimes communicates with the cavity of the joint through an opening of variable size; by its inner border, with the Pectineus, and the femoral artery, which slightly overlaps it; by its outer border, with the anterior crural nerve and Iliacus muscle. The Psoas Parvus is a long slender muscle, placed in front of the preceding. It arises from the sides of the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebras and from the intervertebral substance between them. It forms a small flat muscular bundle, which terminates in a long flat tendon, inserted into the ilio- pectineal eminence, and continuous, by its outer border, with the iliac fascia. This muscle is present, according to M. Theile, in one out of every twenty subjects examined. Relations. It is covered by the peritoneum, and at its origin by the ligamentum arcuatnm internum ; it rests on the Psoas magnus. The Iliacus is a flat radiated muscle, which fills up the whole of the internal iliac fossa. It arises from the iliac fossa, and inner margin of the crest of the ilium ; behind, from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and base of the sacrum ; in front, from the anterior superior and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium, from the notch between them, and by a few fibres from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres converge to be inserted into the outer side of the tendon of the Psoas, some of them being prolonged into the oblique line which extends from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Relations. Within the pelvis : by its anterior surface, with the iliac fascia which separates the muscle from the peritoneum, and with the external cutaneous nerve; on the right side, with the caecum; on the left side, with the sigmoid flexure of the colon. By its posterior surface, with the iliac fossa. By its inner border, with the Psoas Magnus, and anterior crural nerve. In the thigh, it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the fascia lata, Rectus and Sartorius; behind, with the