THE METATARSAL BONES. between the middle cuneiform internally, the cuboid externally, the scaphoid behind, and the third metatarsal in front. It is distinguished from the internal cuneiform bone by its more regular wedge-like shape, and by the absence of the kidney-shaped articular surface : from the middle cuneiform, by the absence of the bent, or angular, facet, and by the two articular facets which mark both its inner and outer surfaces. It has six surfaces for examination. The anterior surface, triangular in form, articulates with the third metatarsal bone. The posterior surface articulates with the most external facet of the scaphoid, and is rough below for the attachment of ligamentous fibres. The internal surface presents two articular facets, separated by a rough depression ; the anterior one, situated at the superior angle of the bone, articulates with the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal bone ; the posterior one skirts the posterior border, and articulates with the middle cuneiform ; the rough depression between the two gives attachment to an interosseous ligament. The external surface also presents two articular facets, separated by a rough non-articular surface ; the anterior facet, situated at the superior angle of the bone, is small, and articulates with the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal; the posterior, and larger one articulates with the cuboid; the rough non-articular surface serves for the attachment of an interosseus ligament. The three facets for articulation with the three metatarsal bones are continuous with one another, and covered by a prolongation of the same cartilage ; the facets for articulation with the middle cuneiform and scaphoid are also continuous, but that for articulation with the cuboid is usually separate. The superior or dorsal surface, of an oblong form, is rough for the attachment of liga- ments. The inferior or plantar surface is an obtuse rounded margin, and serves for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, part of the Flexor brevis pollicis, and ligaments. To ascertain to which side it belongs, hold the bone with the broad dorsal surface upwards, the prolonged edge backwards; the separate articular facet for the cuboid will point to the proper side. Articulations. With six bones : the scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles. Part of Tibialis posticus, and Flexor brevis pollicis. The Metatarsal Bones. The Metatarsal Bones are five in number ; they are long bones, and subdivided into a shaft and two extremities. Common characters. The Shaft is prismoid in form, tapers gradually from the tarsal to the phalangeal extremity, and is slightly curved longitudinally, so as to be concave below, slightly convex above. The Posterior Extremity, or Base, is wedge-shaped, articulating by its terminal surface with the tarsal bones, and by its I lateral surfaces with the contiguous metatarsal bones ; its dorsal and plantar surfaces J being rough for the attachment of ligaments. The Anterior Extremity, or Head, | presents a terminal rounded articular surface, oblong from above downwards, and ! extending further backwards below than above. Its sides are flattened, and present a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for ligamentous attachment. Its under surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage of the Flexor tendon, and marked on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. Peculiar characters. The First is remarkable for its great size, but is the shortest | of all the metatarsal bones. The shaft is strong, and of well-marked prismoid [form. The posterior extremity presents no lateral articular facets; its terminal articular surface is of large size, of semilunar form, and its circumference grooved | for the tarso-metatarsal ligaments; its inferior angle presents a rough oval pro- minence for the insertion of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The head is of large size ; on its plantar surface are two grooved facets, over which glide sesamoid bones ; the facets are separated by a smooth elevated ridge.