ARTERIES. 37 2 by its anastomoses with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. If the point included in the ligature be below the origin of the subscapular artery, the anastomoses are less free. The chief agents in restoring the circulation, will be the posterior circumflex, by its anasto- moses with the suprascapular and acromial thoracic, and the communications between the subscapular and superior profunda, which will be afterwards referred to as performing the same office after ligature of the brachial. The cases in which the operation has been per- formed are few in number, and no published account of dissection of the collateral circulation appears to exist. The branches of the axillary artery are,— Superior thoracic. Acromial thoracic. From ist Part From 2nd Part Thoracica longa. Thoracica alaris. Subscapular. From 3rd Part ^ Anterior circumflex. Posterior circumflex. The superior thoracic is a small artery, which arises from the axillary separately, or by a common trunk with the acromial thoracic. Running forwards and inwards along the upper border of the Pectoralis minor, it passes between it and the Pectoralis major to the side of the chest. It supplies these muscles, and the parietes of the thorax, anastomosing with the internal mammary and inter- costal arteries. The acromial thoracic is a short trunk, which arises from the fore part of the axillary artery. Projecting forwards to the uj^er border of the Pectoralis minor, it divides into three sets of branches, thoracic, acromial, and descending. The thoracic branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the Serratus magnus, and Pectoral muscles, anastomosing with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary. The acromial branches are directed outwards towards the acromion, supplying the Deltoid muscle, and anastomosing, on the surface of the acromion, with the suprascapular and posterior circumflex arteries. The descending branch passes in the interspace between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, accompanying the cephalic vein, and supplying both muscles. The long thoracic passes downwards and inwards along the lower border of the Pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, supplying the Serratus magnus, the Pectoral muscles, and mammary gland, and sending branches across the axilla to the axillary glands and Subscapulars, which anastomose with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. The thoracica alaris is a small branch, which supplies the glands and areolar tissue of the axilla. Its place is frequently supplied by branches from some of the other thoracic arteries. The subscapular, the largest branch of the axillary artery, arises opposite the lower border of the Subscapulars muscle, and passes downwards and backwards along its lower margin to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular, a branch of the subclavian. It distributes branches to the Subscapulars, Serratus magnus, Teres major, and Latissimus dorsi muscles, and gives off, about an inch and a-half from its origin, a large branch, the dorsalis scapulas, which curves round the inferior border of the scapula, leaving the axilla in the interspace between the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the long head of the Triceps in front. Three branches, or sets of branches, arise from the dorsalis scapulas : the first enters the subscapular fossa, beneath the Sub- scapulars, which it supplies, anastomosing with the posterior scapular and supra- scapular arteries ; the second, the trunk of the artery {dorsalis scapulas) turns round the axillary border of the scapula, and enters the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries; and a third, or median branch, is continued along the axillary border of the scapula, between the Teres major and minor, and, at the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the bone, anastomoses with the posterior scapular. The circumflex arteries wind round the neck of the humerus. The posterior cir-