THE KIDNEYS. 691 proper ; the hilum will be seen opening into the sinus just as, in osteology, a fissure opens into a fossa. The relation of the hilum to the sinus will be under- stood by comparing figs. 375, 376. In the former the hilum and sinus are seen in section, the hilum occupied by the commencement of the ureter proper, the sinus filled by the pelvis. In the latter figure, the pelvis has been separated from the greater part of the sinus of the kidney, and partially lifted out of it. The relative position of the vessels and ureter to each other is usually, although not always, as follows :—from above downwards ; artery, vein, ureter : from before backwards ; vein, artery, ureter. 376.—Diagram of the Hilum, Sinus, and Pelvis of the Kidney. a. The hilum cut open, leading into (b) the sinus, c. The pelvis of the ureter partly separated from the walls of the sinus, and lifted out; the ureter is seen continuous with it, and emerging from the hilum below, d, e. The renal artery and vein passing through the sinus. The superior extremity, directed slightly inwards as well as upwards, is thick and rounded, and embraced by the supra-renal capsule. It corresponds on the left side with the upper, and on the right with the lower border of the eleventh rib. The inferior extremity, directed a little outwards as well as downwards, is smaller than the superior and more flattened ; it extends nearly as low as the crest of the ilium. General structure of the Kidney. The structure of the kidney, as seen by the naked eye on making a section from its convex to its concave border, will be found to consist of two parts; the glandular portion, or kidney proper, and its excretory duct or ureter* which latter will be described separately. The kidney proper presents two distinct parts: the outer or cortical portion, surrounded by the capsule, and the inner or medullary, which latter is arranged in large conical masses called the pyramids of Malpighi. The capsule is a fibrous coat formed of dense areolar tissue. It is thin and smooth and easily removed from the cortical structure, to which it is connected only by small blood-vessels and by numerous fine fibrous processes continuous with the connective tissue of the kidney. At the hilum it is reflected inwards so * In this section the two first portions of the duct are alone seen. These are usually called the calices and pelvis of the kidney; but inasmuch as they are really part of the ureter, thev will be described under that head. T Y 2