492 NERVOUS SYSTEM. hemisphere, the fibres being disposed in a longitudinal direction. They form the fornix, the tsenia semicircularis, and peduncles of the pineal gland, the strise longitudinales, the fibres of the gyrus fornicatus, and the fasciculus unciformis. The Cerebellum. The Cerebellum, or little brain, is that portion of the encephalon which is con- tained in the inferior occipital fossae. It is situated beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its average weight in the male is 5 oz. 4 drs. It attains its maximum weight between the twenty-fifth and fortieth year ; its increase in weight after the fourteenth year being relatively greater in the female than in the male. The proportion between the cerebellum and cerebrum is, in the male, as 1 to 8f ; and in the female, as 1 to 8^. In the infant, the cerebellum is proportionally much smaller than in the adult, the relation between it and the cerebrum being, according to Chaussier, between 1 to 13, and 1 to 26 ; by Cruveilhier the proportion was found to be 1 to 20. In form, the cerebellum is oblong, and flattened from above downwards, its greater diameter being from side to side. It measures from three and a half to four inches trans- versely, and from two to two and a half inches from before backwards, being about two inches thick in the centre, and about six lines at the circumference, which is the thinnest part. It consists of grey and white matter : the former, darker than that of the cerebrum, occupies the surface; the latter the interior. The surface of the cerebellum is not convoluted like the cerebrum, but traversed by numerous curved furrows or sulci, which vary in depth at different parts, and separate the laminae of which its exterior is composed. Its upper surface (fig. 267) is somewhat elevated in the median line, and depressed towards its circumference; it consists of two lateral hemispheres, connected together by an elevated median portion or lobe, the superior vermiform process. 267.—Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. The median lobe is the fundamental part, and in some animals, as fishes and reptiles, the only part which exists ; the hemispheres being additions, and attaining their maximum size in man. The hemispheres are separated, in front, by a deep notch, the incisura cerebelli anterior, which encircles the corpora quadrigemina behind ; they are also separated by a similar notch behind, the incisura cerebelli posterior, in which is received the upper part of the falx cerebelli. The superior vermiform process (upper part of the median lobe of the cerebellum), extends from the notch on the anterior to that on the posterior border. It is divided into three lobes : the lobulus centralis, a small lobe, situated in the incisura anterior; the mon- ticulus cerebelli, the central projecting part of the process ; and the commissura sim- plex^ a small lobe near the incisura posterior.