ILIO-LUMBAR. 230,—The Arteries of the Gluteal and Posterior Femoral Regions. Terininahcit, cf IjiterntU Circatnj Sf.Z upe rlo rFerJora ti Within the pelvis it distributes branches to the Pyriformis, Coccygens and Levator ani muscles ; some hemorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the place of the middle hemorrhoidal artery; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesicule seminales, and prostate gland. External to the pelvis, it gives off the coccygeal, inferior gluteal, comes nervi ischiadici, muscular, and articular branches. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and supplies the Gluteus maximus, the in- tegument, and other struc- tures on the back of the coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number, supply the Gluteus maximus muscle. The comes nervi ischia- dici is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the great sciatic nerve for a short distance; it then penetrates it, and runs in its substance to the lower part of the thigh. The muscular branches supply the muscles on the back part of the hip, anas- tomosing with the gluteal, internal and external cir- cumflex, and superior per- forating arteries. Some articular branches are distributed to the cap- sule of the hip-joint. The Ilio-Lumbar Artery ascends beneath the Psoas muscle and external iliac vessels, to the upper part of the iliac fossa, where it divides into a lumbar and an iliac branch. The lumbar branch sup- plies the Psoas and Quad- ratus lumborum muscles, anastomosing with the last lumbar artery, and sends a small spinal branch through the intervertebral foramen, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into the spinal canal, to supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The iliac branch descends to supply the Iliacus internus, some offsets running between the muscle and the bone, one of which enters an oblique canal to supply the diploe, whilst others run along the crest of the ilium, distributing branches to the Gluteal and Abdominal muscles, and anastomosing in their course with the gluteal, circumflex iliac, external circumflex, and epigastric arteries. Middle Perfomtiag JPerfoMihlJ Termination PROFUNDI Su/> ff^i ifmalA rticular. Superior Ma Superior External Articular Inferior Muscatar