CXXV1 GENERAL ANATOMY. communicating with the part of the allantois afterwards converted into the bladder. As the future uriniferous tubes grow they become convo- luted, so that the whole substance of the kidney seems at first to resemble cortical tissue. Then the ends of the tubes become straight, and the pyramidal structure is developed. The suprarenal bodies are formed independently both of the kidneys and Wolffian bodies. The Wolffian body, or primordial kidney, is perceptible about the third week, forming a mass of cells which soon give rise to a hollow organ, situated on either side of the primitive vertebrae, and extending from the heart to the lower end of the embryo, terminating above in a cul-de-sac and opening below into the bladder. The structure of the Wolffian body is in many respects analogous to that of the permanent kidney. It is composed partly of an excretory canal into which open numerous c conduits,' rectilinear at first, but afterwards tortuous, and partly of a cellular or glandular struc- ture, in which Malpighian tufts are found. It is fixed to the diaphragm by a superior ligament, and to the spinal column by an inferior or lumbar ligament. Its office is the same as that of the kidneys, viz., to secrete fluid containing urea, which accumulates in the bladder. When the permanent kidneys are formed, the greater part of the Wolffian body disappears. The rest takes part in the formation of the genital organs. The Internal genital organs have at first no distinctive signs of sex. They are developed from the Wolffian body, the genital gland, and the conduit of Miiller. The genital glands are masses of cells which are formed towards the sixth week of foetal life. They are produced from the middle blasto- dermic layer, and lie on the inside of the Wolffian body, to which they are attached by a mesenteric layer of peritoneum. The conduit of Miiller, or genital duct, is formed at the same time as the genital gland, and like it from the middle blastodermic layer. It is at first a mere cellular cord, and then represents a canal, the upper part of which is closed; the lower opens into the bladder. It lies internal and anterior to the duct of the Wolffian body. Up to this point no difference of sex is perceptible ; but from this stage, towards the commencement of the third month, the internal organs of the female and male begin to assume a different appearance. Female organs.—The genital gland, in its development into an ovary, becomes more lengthened and assumes an oblique position, by which characters it can be distinguished from the testicle, about the ninth or tenth week. The ovary is at first situated internal and anterior to the Wolffian body. As that body disappears the ovary descends towards the inguinal region. It passes into the pelvis towards the end of fcetal life. The ovules and Graafian follicles are derived from the genital glan^, but according to His the stroma of the ovary is furnished by the Wolffian body. The Fallopian tube is formed by the portion of the duct of Miiller, which lies above the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body. This duct is at first completely closed, and its closed extremity remains permanent, forming a small cystic body attached to the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube, and called the 'hydatid of Morgagni.' Below this, a cleft forms in the duct, and is developed into the fimbriated opening of the Fallopian tube.