Ivii BONE. the red or foetal marrow above described. The cells of this marrow appeared to be furnished directly from the blood-vessels which are abundantly supplied to these spaces from the underlying vessels proceed- ing from the periosteal tissue. It is to these vessels, and to the cavities or tubes which they form for themselves as they proceed inwards, that the origin of the Haversian canals is due. The origin of the lacunae and of the bone-cells which fill them is still a matter of dispute. Kolliker, Virchow, and many other anatomists, maintain that in the intra-cartilaginous ossification they are developed directly from the cartilage-cells, the investing membrane of which ossifies and forms the bony lacuna, while its nucleus is developed into the bone- cell. Others, as Dr. Sharpey, H. Mliller, and Eollett, believe that the cartilage-cells, after becoming developed into the 'osteoblasts,' above described, and shown at b, Fig. XVII., become dissolved, and shed their granular contents to form the bony matrix, while the lacunae and bone- corpuscles are developed from the granular masses, which are seen below g in the figure, and which are furnished, according to these authors, from the vessels of the periosteum or perichondrium. If this view be correct, the intimate process is the same in all forms of ossification. Thus far, then, we have followed the steps of a process by which a solid bony mass is produced, having vessels running into it from the periosteum, Haversian canals in which those vessels run, medullary spaces filled with foetal marrow, lacunae with their contained bone-cells, and canaliculi growing out of those lacunae. This process of ossification, however, is not the origin of the whole of the skeleton, for even in those bones in which the ossification proceeds in a great measure from a single centre situated in the cartilaginous diaphysis, a considerable part of the original bone is formed by intra-membranous ossification beneath the perichondrium or periosteum. Kolliker (following H. Mliller, and referring to an observation of Howship to the same effect made so long ago as 1819), describes the first rudiment of a long bone as having the form of a tube, surrounding the primordial cartilage; thus showing that the intra-membranous ossification of the outer part of the bone from the periosteum even precedes the intra-cartilaginous deve- lopment of its interior from the c ossific centre.' Also, a great part of the increase in girth of the bone takes place by bony deposit from the deeper layer of the periosteum. This process is now acknowledged to belong to the intra-membranous form of ossification. Thus even in long bones only a portion of their tissue is formed by intra-cartilaginous ossification. The shaft of the bone is at first solid, but a tube is gradually hollowed out in it by absorption around the vessels passing into it, which becomes the medullary canal; and as more and more bone is deposited from the periosteum, so more and more is removed from around the medul- lary membrane, until at length the bone has attained the shape and size which it is destined to retain during adult life. As the ossifica- tion of the cartilaginous diaphysis extends towards the articular ends it carries with it, as it were, a layer of cartilage, or the cartilage grows as it ossifies. During this period of growth the articular end, or epiphysis, remains for some time entirely cartilaginous, then a bony centre appears in it, and it commences the same process of intra-carti-