324 SUEGICAL ANATOMY. is requisite in keeping the pointed extremity of the upper fragment in proper position ; otherwise, after union of the fracture, the power of extension of the limb is partially destroyed, from the Rectus muscle being held down by the fractured end of the bone, and from the patella, when elevated, being drawn upwards against the projecting fragment. 201.—Fracture of the Femur above the Condyles. 202.—Fracture of the Patella. 203.—Oblique Fracture of the Shaft of the Tibia. Fracture of the patella (fig. 202) may be produced by muscular action, or by direct violence. When produced by muscular action, it occurs thus : a person in danger of falling forwards, attempts to recover himself by throwing the body backwards, and the violent action of the Quadriceps extensor upon the pa- tella snaps that bone transversely across. The upper fragment is drawn up the thigh by the Quadriceps extensor, the lower fragment being- retained in its position by the ligamentum patella?; the extent of separation of the two fragments depending upon the degree of lacera- tion of the ligamentous structures around the bone. The patient is totally unable to straighten the limb; the prominence of the patella is lost; and a marked but varying interval can be felt between the fragments. The treatment consists in relaxing the opposing muscles, which may be effected by raising the trunk, and slightly ele- vating the limb, which should be kept in a straight position. Union is usually ligamentous. In fracture from direct violence, the bone is generally comminuted, or fractured obliquely or perpendicularly. Oblique fracture of the shaft of the tibia (fig. 203) usually occurs at the lower fourth of the bone, this being the narrowest and weakest part, and is usually accompanied with fracture of the fibula. If the fracture has taken place obliquely from above, downwards, and forwards, the fragments ride over one another, the lower fragments being drawn backwards and upwards by the powerful action of the muscles of the calf; the pointed extremity of the upper fragment pro- jects forwards immediately beneath the integu- ment, often protruding through it, and rendering the fracture a compound one. If the direction of the fracture is the reverse of that shown in the figure, the pointed extremity of the lower fragment projects forwards, riding upon the lower end of the upper one. By bending the knee, which relaxes the opposing muscles, and making