BLADDER. oblique, truly oblique, and nearly circular fibres of the successive layers are all continued into tbe prostatic urethra, which therefore may be regarded as a continuatipn of the bladder anteriorly. The fibres of the cervix are traceable into the verumontanum, which Pettigrew believes to act as a valve to the urethra, falling down into the tube and obstructing it when the muscle of the bladder is not acting, and raised up, so as to stand erect in the middle line, and thus to allow the flow of urine, when the fibres contract. The varying obliquity and spiral arrangement of the seven layers establishes a close analogy between the disposition of the muscular fibres of the bladder and those of the heart, as described by Pettigrew, in Philos. Trans. 1864; and he hints at similar structure in the stomach and uterus. The cellular coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together the muscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter. The mucous coat is thin, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous through the ureters with the lining membrane of the uriniferous tubes, and below with that of the urethra. It is connected loosely to the muscular coat, by a layer of areolar tissue, excepting at the trigone, where its adhesion is more close. It is provided with a few mucous follicles ; and numerous small racemose glands, lined with columnar epithelium, exist near the neck of the organ. The epithelium covering it is intermediate in form between the columnar and squamous varieties. Interior of the bladder. Upon the inner surface of the base of the bladder, immediately behind the urethral orifice, -The Bladder and Urethra laid open. Seen from above. is a triangular, smooth surface, the apex of which is directed forwards; this is the trigonum vesica1; or trigone vesicate. It is paler in colour than the rest of the mucous membrane, and never presents any ruga?, even in the collapsed condition of the organ, owing to its intimate adhesion to the sub- jacent tissues. It is bounded on each side by two slight ridges, which pass backwards and outwards to the orifices of the ureters, and correspond with the muscles of these tubes; and at each posterior angle, by the orifices of the ureters, which are placed nearly two inches from each other, and about an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra. The trigone corre- sponds with the interval at the base of the bladder, bounded by the prostate in front, and the vesiculee and vasa deferentia on the sides. Projecting from the lower and anterior part of the bladder, into the orifice of the urethra, is a slight elevation of mucous mem- brane, called the uvula vesicm. It is formed by a thickening of the prostate. The arteries supplying the bladder are the superior, middle, and inferior vesical, in the male, with additional branches from the uterine, in the female. They are all derived from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. The veins form a complicated plexus round the neck, sides, and base of the bladder, and terminate in the internal iliac vein.