705 URETHRA. The Bulbous portion is a name given, in some descriptions of the urethra, to the posterior dilated part of the spongy portion contained within the bnlb. The meatus urinarius is the most contracted part of the urethra ; it is a vertical slit, about three lines in length, bounded on each side by two small labia. The inner surface of the lining membrane of the urethra, especially on the floor of the spongy portion, presents the orifices of numerous mucous glands and follicles, situated in the submucous tissue, and named the glands of Littre. They vary in size, and their orifices are directed forwards, so that they may easily intercept the point of a catheter in its passage along the canal. One of these lacunae, larger than the rest, is situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis, about an inch and a half from the orifice; it is called the lacuna magna. Into the bulbous portion are found opening the ducts of Cowper's glands. Structure. The urethra is composed of three coats : a mucous, muscular, and erectile. The mucous coat forms part of the genito-urinary mucous membrane. It is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys; externally, with the integument covering the glans penis; and is prolonged into the ducts of the glands which open into the urethra, viz., Cowper's glands, the prostate gland, and the vasa deferentia and vesicular seminales, through the ejaculatory ducts. In the spongy and membranous portions the mucous membrane is arranged in longitudinal folds when the organ is contracted. Small papillae are found upon it, near the orifice; and its epithelial lining is of the columnar variety, excepting near the meatus, where it is laminated. The muscular coat consists of two layers of plain muscular fibres, an external longitudinal layer, and an internal circular. The muscular tissue is most abundant in the prostatic portion of the canal. A thin layer of erectile tissue is continued from the corpus spongiosum round the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra to th,e neck of the bladder. Z Z