Ixiii MUSCULAR TISSUE. rod-shaped nucleus is faintly visible. Acetic acid dissolves out the granular contents of the cell, and brings the nucleus clearly into view. The unstriped muscle, as a rule, is not under the influence of the will, nor is the contraction rapid and involving the whole muscle, as is the case with the muscles of animal life. The membranes which are composed of the unstriped muscle slowly contract in a part of their extent, generally under the influence of mechanical stimulus, as that of distension or of cold, and then the contracted part slowly relaxes, while another portion of the membrane takes up the contraction. This peculiarity of action is most strongly marked in the intestines, constituting their vermicular motion. In chemical composition, the muscular fibres of both forms consist mainly of a substance (syntonin) nearly identical with the fibrine of the Fig. XXII.—Non-striated ele- Fig. XXIII.—Muscular fibre-cells from mentary fibres from the hu- human arteries. I, from the pop- man colon, a, Treated with liteal artery ', a, without; n, with acetic acid, showing the acetic acid. 2, From a branch of corpuscles, b, Fragment of the anterior tibial; a, nuclei of the a detached fibre, not touched fibres. Magnified 350 times, with acid. blood; but, unlike the latter, not dissolved by nitrate of potash. Muscle after death exhibits an acid reaction; but this appears to be due to post-mortem changes. The capillaries of muscle are very abundant, and form a series of rectangular areolae, the branches, which run longitudinally between the muscular fibres, being united at short intervals by transverse anasto- mosing branches. Nerves are profusely distributed to the muscular tissue, more especially to the voluntary muscles. The mode of their termination will be described on a subsequent page. The distribution and the mode of origin of the lymphatic vessels of muscle has not yet been ascertained. The muscles during life, and for some time after death, respond to the appropriate stimulus by contracting in the manner peculiar to the class