626 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. they are disposed as a thick uniform layer, covering both surfaces, some passing obliquely from left to right, others from right to left, round the cardiac orifice. The cellular coat consists of a loose, filamentous, areolar tissue, connecting the mucous and muscular layers. It is sometimes called the submucous coat. It supports the blood-vessels previous to their distribution to the mucous membrane ; hence it is sometimes called the vascular coat. The mucous membrane of the stomach is thick; its surface smooth, soft, and velvety. During infancy, and immediately after death, it is of a pinkish tinge ; but in adult life, and in old age, it becomes of a pale straw or ash-grey colour. It is thin at the cardiac extremity, but thicker towards the pylorus. During the contracted state of the organ, it is thrown into numerous plaits or rugee, which, for the most part, have a longitudinal direction, and are most marked towards the lesser end of the stomach, and along the greater curvature (fig. 333). These folds are entirely obliterated when the organ becomes distended. Structure of the mucous membrane {fig. ,335). When examined with a lens, the inner surface of the mucous membrane presents a peculiar honeycomb appearance, 335.—Minute Anatomy of Mucous Membrane of Stomach. Blood Te-nsets from being covered with small shallow depressions or alveoli, of a polygonal or hexagonal form, which vary from i-iooth to i-35oth of an inch in diameter, and are separated by slightly elevated ridges. In the bottom of the alveoli are seen the orifices of minute tubes, the gastric follicles^ which are situated perpendicularly side by side, in the entire substance of the mucous membrane. They are short, and simply tubular in character towards the cardia; but at the pyloric end, they are longer, more thickly set, convoluted, and terminate in dilated saccular ex- tremities, or are subdivided into from two to six tubular branches. The gastric follicles are composed of a homogenous basement membrane, lined upon its free surface by a layer of cells, which differ in their character in different parts of the stomach. Towards the pylorus, these tubes are lined throughout with columnar epithelium ,; they are termed the mucous glands, and are supposed to secrete the gastric mucus. In other parts of the organ, the deep part of each tube is filled with nuclei, and a mass of granules ; above these are a mass of nucleated cells, the upper fourth of the tube being lined by columnar epithelium. These are called the peptic glands, and are the supposed agents in the secretion of the gastric juice. Simple follicles are found in greater or less number over the entire surface of the mucous membrane; they are most numerous near the pyloric end of the stomach, and are especially distinct in early life. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the stomach and its alveoli is of the columnar variety. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the stomach are, the coronaria ventriculi, the pyloric and right gastroepiploic branches of the hepatic, the left gastro-epiploic and vasa brevia from the splenic. They supply the muscular coat,