473 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. minor grooves into fonr columns, which, from before backwards, are named the anterior pyramid, lateral tract and olivary body, the restiform body, the posterior pyramid. The anterior pyramids, or corpora pyramidalia, are two pyramidal-shaped bundles of white matter, placed one on either side of the anterior median fissure, and separated from the olivary body, 257. -Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii. Anterior Surface. which is external to them, by a slight depression. At the lower border of the pons they are somewhat constricted; they then become enlarged, and taper slightly as they descend, being con- tinuous below with the anterior co- lumns of the cord. On separating the pyramids below, it will be observed that their innermost fibres form from four to five bundles on each side, which decussate with one another; this de- cussation, however, is not formed en- tirely of fibres from the pyramids, but mainly from the deep portion of the lateral columns of the cord which pass forwards to the surface between the di- verging anterior columns. The outer- most fibres do not decussate ; they are derived from the anterior columns of the cord, and are continued directly upwards through the pons Varolii. Lateral tract and olivary body. The lateral tract is continuous with the lateral column of the cord. Below, it is broad, and includes that part of the medulla between the anterior pyramid and restiform body ; but, above, it is pushed a little backwards, and narrowed by the projection forwards of the olivary body. The olivary bodies are two prominent, oval masses, situated behind the anterior pyramids, from which they are separated by slight grooves. They equal, in breadth, the anterior pyramids, are a little broader above than below, and are about half an inch in length, being separated, above from the pons Varolii by a slight depression. Numerous white fibres (fibres arciformes) are seen winding round the lower end of each body ; sometimes crossing their surface. The restiform bodies (fig. 258) are the largest columns of the medulla, and con- tinuous, below, with the posterior columns of the cord. They are two rounded, cord-like eminences, placed between the lateral tracts, in front, and the posterior pyramids, behind; from both of which they are separated by slight grooves. As they ascend, they diverge from each other, assist in forming the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle, and then enter the corresponding hemisphere of the cere- bellum, forming its inferior peduncle ; it is probable that some fibres are continued from the restiform bodies into the cerebrum. The posterior pyramids (fasciculi graciles) are two narrow, white cords placed one on each side of the posterior median fissure, and separated from the restiform bodies by a narrow groove. They consist entirely of white fibres, and are con- tinuous with the posterior median columns of the spinal cord. These bodies lie, at first, in close contact. Opposite the apex of the fourth ventricle they form an enlargement (processus clavatus), and then, diverging, are lost in the corre- sponding restiform body. The upper part of the posterior pyramids form the lateral boundaries of the calamus scriptorius. The posterior ~smcf'ace[__of_Jhe medidla oblongata, forms part of the floor of the fourthjventricle. It is of a triangular form, bounded on each side by the diverging posterior pyramids, and is that part of the ventricle which, from its resemblance to the point of a pen, is called the calamus scriptorius. The divergence of the