432 VEINS. as reservoirs for the blood. These are the veins of the diploe: they can only be displayed by removing the outer table of the skull. In adult life, as long as the cranial bones are distinct and separable, these veins are confined to the particular bones; but in old age, when the sutures are united, they communicate with each other, and increase in size. These vessels commu- nicate, in the interior of the cranium, with the meningeal veins, and with the sinuses of the dura mater; and on the exterior of the skull, with the veins of the pericranium. They are divided into the frontal, which opens into the supraorbital vein, by an aperture at the supraorbital notch; the anterior temporal, which is confined chiefly to the frontal bone, and opens into one of the deep temporal veins, after escaping by an aperture in the great wing of the sphenoid; the posterior temporal, which is confined to the parietal bone, and terminates in the lateral sinus by an aperture at the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone ; and the occipital, which is confined to the occipital bone and opens either into the occipital vein, or the occipital sinus. Cerebral Veins. The Cerebral Veins are remarkable for the extreme thinness of their coats, in consequence of thejnuscular tissue in them being wanting, and for the absence of valves. They may be divided into two sets, the superficial, which are placed on the surface, and the deep veins, which occupy the interior of the organ. The Superior Cerebral Veins ramify upon the surface of the brain, being lodged in the sulci, between the convolutions, a few running across the convolu- tions. They receive branches from the substance of the brain, and terminate in the sinuses. They are named, from the position they occupy, superior, inferior, internal, and external. The Superior Cerebral Veins, seven or eight in number on each side, pass forwards and inwards towards the great longitudinal fissure, where they receive the internal cerebral veins, which return the blood from the convolutions of the flat surface of the corresponding hemisphere; near their termination, they become invested with a tubular sheath of the arachnoid membrane, and open into the superior longitudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the blood. The Inferior Anterior Cerebral Veins commence on the under surface of the anterior lobes of the brain, and terminate in the cavernous sinuses. The Inferior Lateral Cerebral Veins commence on the lateral parts of the hemispheres, and at the base of the brain : they unite to form from three to five veins, which open into the lateral sinus from before backwards. The Inferior Median Cerebral Veins, which are very large, commence at the fore part of the under surface of the cerebrum, and from the convolutions of the posterior lobe, and terminate in the straight sinus behind the vense Galeni. The Beep Cerebral, or Ventricular Veins (vena) Galeni), are two in number, one from the right, the other from the left, ventricle. They are each formed by two veins, the vena corporis striati, and the choroid vein. They run backwards, parallel with one another, enclosed within the velum interpositum, and pass out of the brain at the great transverse fissure, between the under surface of the corpus callosum and the tubercula quadrigemina, to enter the straight sinus. The vena corporis striati commences in the groove between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, receives numerous veins from both of these parts, and unites behind the anterior pillar of the fornix with the choroid vein, to form one of the venae Galeni. The choroid vein runs along the whole length of the outer border of the choroid plexus, receiving veins from the hippocampus major, the fornix and corpus callosum and unites, at the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus, with the vein of the corpus striatum.