cxxv DEVELOPMENT OF GENITO-UR1NARY ORGANS. Development of the respiratory organs.—Tlie lungs appear somewhat later than the liver. They are developed from a small cul-de-sac, which is formed on either side as a projection from the epithelial and fibrous laminse of the intestine. During the fourth week these depressions are found on either side, opening- freely into the pharynx, and from the original pouches other secondary pouches are given off, so that by the eighth week the form of the lobes of the lungs may be made out. The two primary pouches have a common pedicle of communication with the pharynx. This is developed into the trachea (Fig. LIX.), the cartilaginous rings of which are perceptible about the seventh week, the parts which after- wards form the larynx are recognised as early as the sixth week, viz.: a projection on either side of the pharyngeal opening, the rudiment of the arytenoid cartilages, and a transverse elevation from the third pharyngeal arch, which afterwards becomes the epiglottis: the vocal cords and ventricles of the larynx are seen about the fourth month. The traces of the diaphragm appear early, in the form of a fine membrane, separating the lungs from the Wolffian bodies, the stomach and liver, but the source of its formation has not been ascertained. The pleural and peritoneal cavities are then separated, having been common up to this time. The serous membrane of the pleura is formed about the tenth week; but its development is also unknown. Development of the genito-urinary organs.—The allautois communicates at first with the lower part of the primitive intestine by a canal—the urachus. After the second month the lower part of the urachus dilates, so as to form the bladder, which then communicates above with the cavity of the urachus, and below with the rectum, by a canal of communication which is afterwards transformed into the urethra. The urachus is obliterated before the termination of foetal life ; but the cord formed by its obliteration is perceptible throughout life, passing from the upper part of the bladder to the umbilicus. The kidneys are also formed from the lower end of the urachus. They lie at first (about the seventh week) behind and below the Wolffian body. As their distance from the bladder increases, the ureters become developed, and the simple culs-de-sac in which the foetal kidneys commence divide and subdivide so as to form lobulated organs provided with calices in their interior. This lobulation is perceptible for some time after birth. The mode of development of the ureters is not exactly known. Some embryologists describe them as extending gradually from the allantois j upwards, so that the proper tissue of the kidney would be developed upon I projections, or buds, out of the upper ends of the ureters. Others teach that the kidney tissue is formed before the ureter, and that the ducts of the former are hollowed out and open into the latter. Others, again, believe that the whole organ (kidney and ureter) is laid down in the same mass of blastema, which is at first solid, and that the various ducts or hollow spaces are formed in each part simultaneously. What is admitted is that the solid blastema in which the kidney commences comes to be arranged in a series of club-shaped bodies, which have their larger ends directed towards the hilum, and that these afterwards become hollow and open into the ureter, which has then also assumed the condition of a tube,