i8o ARTICULATIONS. deep muscles. Between its upper border and the oblique ligament an interval exists, through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. Two or three fibrous bands are occasionally found on the posterior surface of this membrane, which descend obliquely from the ulna towards the radius, and which have consequently a direction contrary to that of the other fibres. It is in relation, in front, by its upper three-fourths with the Flexor longus pollicis on the outer side, and with the Flexor profundus digitorum on the inner, lying upon the interval between which are the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, by its lower fourth with the Pro- nator quadratus ; behind, with the Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, Extensor primi internodii pollicis, Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, Extensor indicis ; and, near the wrist, with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior interosseous nerve. 3. Inferior Radio-Ulnar Articulation. This is a lateral ginglymus, formed by the head of the ulna received into the sigmoid cavity at the inner side of the lower end of the radius. The articular surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Anterior Radio-ulnar. Posterior Radio-ulnar. Triangular Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. The Anterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 134) is a narrow band of fibres, ex- tending from the anterior margin of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the anterior surface of the head of the ulna. The Posterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 135) extends between similar points on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Triangular Fibro-cartilage (fig. 136, p. 186) is placed transversely beneath the head of the ulna, binding the lower end of this bone and the radius firmly together. Its circumference is thicker than its centre, which is thin and occasionally per- forated. It is attached by its apex to a depression which separates the styloid process of the ulna from the head of that bone ; and, by its base, which is thin, I to the prominent edge of the radius, which separates the sigmoid cavity from the carpal articulating surface. Its margins are united to the ligaments of the wrist-joint. Its upper surface, smooth and concave, is contiguous with the head of the ulna; its under surface, also concave and smooth, with the cuneiform bone. Both surfaces are lined by a synovial membrane : the upper surface by one peculiar to the radio-ulnar articulation; the under surface, by the synovial membrane of the wrist. The Synovial Membrane (fig. 136) of this articulation has been called, from its extreme looseness, the membrana sacciformis ; it covers the margin of the articular surface of the head of the ulna, and where reflected from this bone on to the radius, forms a very loose cul-de-sac ; from the radius, it is continued over the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage. The quantity of synovia which it contains is usually considerable. When the fibro-cartilage is perforated, the synovial membrane is continuous with that which lines the wrist. Actions. The arrangement in the inferior radio-ulnar articulation is just the reverse of that between the two bones above ; motion is limited to rota- tion of the radius round the head of the ulna; rotation forwards being termed pronation, rotation backwards supination. In pronation, the sigmoid cavity glides forward on the articular edge of the ulna ; in supination, it rolls in the oppo- site direction, the extent of these movements being limited by the anterior and posterior ligaments. VII. Radio-carpal or Wrist-Joint. The Wrist presents some of the characters of an enarthrodial joint, but is more correctly regarded as an arthrodia. The parts entering into its formation are, the