32 THE SKELETON". extemus. This canal is situated between the mastoid process and the posterior and middle roots of the zygoma ; its upper margin is smooth and rounded, but the greater part of its circumference is surrounded by a curved plate of bone, the audi- tory process, the free margin of which is thick and rough, for the attachment of the cartilage of the external ear. The apex of the petrous portion, rough and uneven, is received into the angular interval between the posterior border of the great wing of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital; it presents the anterior or internal orifice of the carotid canal, and forms the posterior and external boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. The anterior surface of the petrous portion (fig. 31) forms the posterior part of the middle fossa of the skull. This surface is continuous with the squamous portion, to which it is united by a suture, the temporal suture, the remains of which are distinct even at a late period of life : it presents six points for examina* tion : 1. an eminence near the centre, which indicates the situation of the superior vertical semicircular canal: 2. on the outer side of this eminence a depression, in- 32.—Petrous Portion. Inferior Surface. CanalsforHuslaehian tabe t nd Tensor tywj/ani muscfe LEVATOR PAL AT I Hough Qu aUrilattrq. I Sit rjcuic Ofcunrj of carotid canal Canal for Jaeohwns nerve Aqufdiwtus Car/ifeie Canal far A rnold's nerve Jugular fossa Vagi nal j? racess Styloid p rocess /5Yy/,> mastoid fora men ,flUtllft i'rface Au Hcul-ar f is 911 STYLO - PHaRVNCEUS dicating the position of the tympanum, the layer of bone which separates the tympanum from the cranial cavity being extremely thin : 3. a shallow groove, some- times double, leading outwards and backwards to an oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the passage of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve : 4. a smaller opening, occasionally seen external to the latter for the passage of the smaller petrosal nerve: 5. near the apex of the bone the termination of the carotid canal, the wall of which in this situation is deficient in front: 6. above this canal, a shallow depression for the reception of the Casserian ganglion. The posterior surface forms the front part of the posterior fossa of the skull, and is continuous with the inner surface of the mastoid portion of the bone. It presents three points for examination: r. about its centre, a large orifice, the meatus auditorius internus, whose size varies considerably ; its margins are smooth