Ixv NERVOUS TISSUE. skull and spine. This is called the cerebrospinal system, and is divided into the brain (including the medulla oblongata), the spinal cord, the cranial nerves, the spinal nerves, and the ganglia connected with both those classes of nerves. The second, called the sympathetic system, is not directly connected with the brain or spinal cord, though it is so indirectly by means of its numerous communications with the cranial and spinal nerves. It consists of a double chain of ganglia, with the branches which go to and come from them. A third method of division of the nervous system is based upon the functions which it performs. On this principle it is divided into the nervous system of animal life and the nervous system of organic life—the former subserving the higher functions of volition, sensation, &c, the latter those of growth and nutrition. It is clear that the former qualities reside mainly in the cerebro-spinal system, while the intimate connection between the sympathetic nerve and the great viscera renders it highly Fig. XXIV.—Nerve-vesicles from the Gasserian ganglion of the human sub- ject : a, A globular one with defined border ; b, its nucleus ; c, its nucleo- lus, d, Caudate vesicle; e, Elongated vesicle with two groups of pigment particles ; /, Vesicle surrounded by its sheath or capsule of nucleated par- ticles; g, The same, the sheath only- being in focus. Magnified 300 dia- meters. Fig. XXV.—Nerve-vesicles from the inner parts of the grey matter of the convolutions of the human brain; magnified350times. Nerve-cells: «,larger, b, smaller, c, Nerve fibre, with axis-cylinder. probable that the sympathetic system has mainly to do with the organic functions. Consequently, the cerebro-spinal system was designated the system of animal life, and the sympathetic the system of organic life. But the distinction, though true to a certain extent, is by no means complete, as the student may easily see by consulting the works of modern physiologists. The grey or vesicular nervous substance is distinguished by its dark reddish-grey colour, and soft consistence. It is found in the brain, spinal cord, and various ganglia, intermingled with the fibrous nervous sub- stance, but is never found in the nerves. It is composed, as its name implies, of vesicles, or corpuscles, commonly called nerve- or ganglion- corpuscles, containing nuclei and nucleoli; the vesicles being imbedded either in a finely granular substance, as in the brain, or in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia. Each vesicle consists of an exceedingly d