POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. x 2 the Gluteus medius, rotate tbe thigh outwards ; the anterior fibres of the Gluteus medius and the Gluteus minimus rotate it inwards.* The Gluteus maximus serves to extend the femur, and the Gluteus medius and minimus draw it forwards. The Gluteus maximus is also a tensor of the fascia lata. Taking their fixed point from the femur, the Glutei muscles act upon the pelvis, supporting it and the whole trunk upon the head of the femur, which is specially obvious in standing on one leg. In order to gain the erect posture after the effort of stooping, these muscles draw the pelvis backwards, assisted by the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semi- membranosus muscles. The remaining muscles are powerful rotators of the thigh outwards. In the sitting posture, when the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, their action as rotators ceases, and they become abductors, with the exception of the Obturator exteriius^ which still rotates the femur outwards! When the femur is Exed7 tEe Pyriformis and Obturator muscles serve to draw the pelvis forwards if it has been inclined backwards, and assist in steadying it upon the head of the femur. Posterior Femoral Region. Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Dissection (fig. 189). Make a vertical incision along the middle of the thigh, from the lower fold of the nates to about three inches below the hack of the knee-joint, and there connect it with a transverse incision, carried from the inner to the outer side of the leg. Make a third incision transversely at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh. The integument having been removed from the back of the knee, and the boundaries of the popliteal space examined, the removal of tbe integument from the remaining part of the thigh should be continued, when the fascia and muscles of this region will be exposed. The Biceps (fig. 190) is a large muscle, of considerable length, situated on the posterior and outer aspect of the thigh. It arises by two heads. One, the long head, arises from the lower and inner facet on the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium, by a tendon common to it and the Semitendinosus. The femoral, or short head, arises from the outer lip of the linea aspera, between the Adductor magnus and Vastus externus, extending from a short distance below the insertion of the Gluteus maximus, to within two inches of the outer condyle ; it also arises from the external intermuscular septum. The fibres of the long head form a fusiform belly, which, passing obliquely downwards and a little outwards, terminate in an aponeu- rosis which covers the posterior surface of the muscle, and receives the fibres of the short head; this aponeurosis becomes gradually contracted into a tendon, which is inserted into the outer side of the head of the fibula. At its insertion, the tendon divides into two portions, which embrace the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, a strong prolongation being sent forwards to the outer tuberosity of the tibia, which gives off an expansion to the fascia of the leg. The tendon of this muscle forms the outer ham-string. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Gluteus maximus above, the fascia lata and integument in the rest of its extent. By its deep surface, with the Semimembranosus, Adductor magnus, and Vastus externus, the great sciatic nerve, popliteal artery and vein, and near its insertion, with the external head of the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, the superior external articular artery, and the external popliteal nerve. The Semitendinosus, remarkable for the great length of its tendon, is situated at the posterior and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the tuberosity of the ischium by a tendon common to it and the long head of the Biceps ; it also arises from an aponeurosis which connects the adjacent surfaces of the two muscles to the extent of about three inches after their origin. It forms a fusiform muscle, which, passing downwards and inwards, terminates a little below the middle of the thigh in a long round tendon which lies along the inner side of the popliteal space, then curves around the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of that bone, nearly as far forwards as its anterior border. This tendon lies beneath the expansion of the Sartorius, and below that of the Gracilis, to which it is united. A tendinous intersection is usually observed about the middle of the muscle.