VERTEBRAL. 363 conspicuously the peculiar character of newly-formed, or, rather, dilated arteries,' being ex- cessively tortuous, and forming a complete plexus. i The chief agent in the restoration of the axillary artery below the tumour, was the infrascapular artery, which communicated most freely with the internal mammary, supra- scapular, and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, from all of which it received so great an influx of blood as to dilate it to three times its natural size.' * Branches of the Subclavian Artery. 215.—Plan of the Branches of the Right These^rojEbuic in number. Three Subclavian Artery. arising from the first portion of the vessel, the vertebral, the internal mammary, and the thyroid axis ; and one from the second portion, the superior intercostal. The vertebral arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the artery ; the thyroid axis from the front, and the in- ternal mammary from the under part of this vessel. The ^superior intercostal is given off from the upper and back part of the second portion of the artery. On the left side, the second portion usually gives off no branch, the superior inter- costal arising at the inner side of the Scalenus anticus. On both sides of the body, the first three branches arise close together at the inner margin of the Sca- lenus anticus ; in the majority of cases, a free interval of half an inch to an inch existing between the commencement of the artery and the origin of the nearest branch ; in a smaller number of cases, an interval of more than an inch exists, never exceeding an inch and three-quarters. In a very few instances, the interval has been found less than half an inch. The Vertebral Artery (fig. 212) is generally the first and largest branch of the subclavian; it arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the vessel, and, passing upwards, enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, f and ascends through the foramina in the transverse pro- cesses of all the vertebrae above this. Above the upper border of the axis, it in- clines outwards and upwards to the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, through which it passes ; it then winds backwards behind its articular pro- cess, runs in a deep groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of this bone, and, piercing the posterior occipito-atloid ligament and dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. It then passes in front of the medulla oblongata, and unites with the vessel of the opposite side at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. At its origin, it is situated behind the internal jugular vein, and inferior thyroid artery ; and, near the spine, lies between the Longus colli and Scalenus anticus muscles, having the thoracic duct in front of it on the left side. Within the foramina formed by the transverse processes of the vertebrae, it is accompanied by a plexus of nerves from the sympathetic, and lies between the vertebral vein, which is in front, and the cervical nerves, which issue from the intervertebral foramina behind it. Whilst winding round the articular process of the atlas, it is contained in a tri- * angular space formed by the Rectus posticus major, the Superior and the Inferior oblique muscles; and is covered by the Rectus posticus major and Complexus. * Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. 1836. Case of axillary aneurism, in which Mr. Asten Key had tied the subclavian artery on the outer edge of the Scalenus muscle, twelve }rears previously. t The vertebral artery sometimes enters the foramen in the transverse process of the fifth vertebrae. Br. Smyth, who tied this artery in the living subject, found it, in one of his dissections, passing into the foramen in the seventh vertebra.