476 NERVOUS SYSTEM. also probably in general endowments, exists between the mednlla oblongata and the spinal cord. The larger size and peculiar form of the mednlla depends on the enlargement, divergence, and decussation of the various columns ; and also on the addition of special deposits of grey matter in the olivary bodies and other parts, evidently in adaptation to the more extended range of function which this part of the cerebro-spinal axis possesses. Pons Varolii. The pons Varolii (mesoc&phale, Chaussier) is the bond of union of the various segments of the encephalon, connecting the cerebrum above, the medulla oblongata below, and the cerebellum behind. It is situated above the medulla oblongata, below the crura cerebri, and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its under surface presents a broad transverse band of white fibres, which arches like a bridge across the upper part of the medulla, extending between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. This surface projects considerably beyond the level of these parts, is of quadrangular form, rests upon the sphenoid and basilar groove of the occipital bone, and is limited before and behind by very prominent margins. It presents along the middle line a longitudinal groove, wider in front than behind, which lodges the basilar artery ; numerous transverse strise are also observed on each side, which indicate the course of its superficial fibres. Its upper surface forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and at each side it becomes contracted into a thick rounded cord, the crus cerebelli, which enters the substance of the cerebellum, constituting its middle peduncle. Structure. The pons Varolii consists of alternate layers of transverse and longi- tudinal fibres intermixed with grey matter (fig. 260). The transverse fibres connect together the two lateral hemispheres of the cere- bellum, and constitute its great transverse commissure. They consist of a super- ficial and a deep layer. The superficial layer passes uninterruptedly across the surface of the pons, forming a uniform layer, which consists of fibres derived from the crus cerebelli on each side, meeting in the median line. The deep layer of transverse fibres decussates with the longitudinal fibres continued up from the medulla, and contains much more grey matter between its fibres. The longitudinal fibres are continued up through the pons. 1. From the anterior pyramid. 2. From the olivary body. 3. From the lateral and posterior columns of the cord, receiving special fibres from the grey matter of the pons itself. 1. The fibres from the anterior pyramid ascend through the pons, embedded between two layers of transverse fibres, being subdivided in their course into smaller bundles ; at the upper border of the pons they enter the crus cerebri, forming its fasciculated portion. 2. The olivary fasciculus divides in the pons into two bundles, one of which ascends to the corpora quadrigemina ; the other is continued to the cerebrum with the fibres of the lateral column. 3. The fibres from the lateral and posterior columns of the cord, with a bundle from the olivary fasciculus, are intermixed with much grey matter, and appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle as the fasciculi teretes: they ascend to the deep or cerebral part of the crus cerebri. Foville believes that a few fibres from each of the longitudinal tracts of the medulla turn forwards, and are continuous with the transverse fibres of the pons. Septum. The pons is subdivided into two lateral halves by a median septum wThich extends through its posterior half. The septum consists of antero-posterior and transverse fibres. The former are derived from the floor of the fourth ven- tricle and from the transverse fibres of the pons, which bend backwards before passing across to the opposite side. The latter are derived from the floor of the fourth ventricle; they pierce the longitudinal fibres, and are then continued across from one to the other side of the medulla, piercing the antero-posterior fibres.