lxxix THE NERVES. a peripheral process—the central process being, according to him, con- tinuous with a primitive fibril of the olfactory nerve, and the peripheral process either ending on the free surface of the epithelium, as is tlie case in men, mammals and fishes, or in some other animals prolonged into a long stiff hair. These cells he has denominated ' olfactory cells ;' and similar cells have been described by Axel Key, Schwalbe, and Loven, in the papillse cir cum vail atae of man, and the fungiform papillae of the frog ('taste-cells'). The fibres also of the optic nerve have, according to Schultze, a similar connection with the cells (e sight cells') of the retina; and cells somewhat similar, and connected with processes that pass through the epithelium, are to be found on the nerve fibrils of the auditory nerve, in the membranous labyrinth (< hearing- cells ')• The terminations of the nerves in the hair-bulbs is probably to be found in the papillse at their root, as is also the case in the teeth. In glands the nerves, according to Pfliiger, are connected with the csecal commencements of the gland-tubes—at least he has described this arrangement in the salivary glands, and thus he is led to regard the nuclei of these csecal pouches as the terminations of the nerves. Motor nerves are to be traced either into unstriped or striped fibres. In the unstriped fibres it uppears from the researches of Beale, Fran- kenhauser and Julius Arnold, that the ultimate fibrils of the nerves form plexuses at the junctions of whose branches small nuclear bodies are situated. These nuclei are regarded by Arnold as the real terminations of the nerves, for although he agrees with Frankenhauser in stating that the nervous filaments penetrate the muscular fibres, and enter into relation with the granular contents of their nuclei, he traces the filaments back again from that point to the nuclei situated at the junctions of the nervous plexuses, in the connective tissue of the muscular fibres. In the voluntary muscles Beale and Kolliker have described the nerve- fibres as terminating either in a plexiform arrangement, or (according to the latter author), sometimes in free ends between the muscular fibres external to the sarcolemma. Lately another method of termination, which had been formerly described, has received the support of numerous eminent authorities—viz., the 6 motorial end-plates 9 of Kiihne, or 'nerve- hillocks ' (nerve-tufts) of Doyere. The latter author had described, nearly thirty years ago, a connection between the nervous and muscular fibres in some of the lower animals, | consisting in an elevation at the point of junction of the two, where the sarcolemma of the muscular fibre became blended with the tubular membrane of the nerve. This has been since so far confirmed by sub- sequent researches, that it seems well to figure, from the most recent author, Kiihne, what he supposes to be the termination of all motor nerves of voluntary muscles. The following is Kiihne's description of the method of connection :— (In all striped muscles the nerves terminate below the sarcolemma— the tubular membrane being blended with the sarcolemma. The white substance accompanies the axis-cylinder as far as this point. The ending of the axis-cylinder always represents an expansion with a considerably increased surface, and this is constantly formed by its branching out on a