GENERAL ANATOMY. cxxx Fifth week.—Vascularity of the allantois in its whole extent. First trace of hands and feet. The primitive aorta divides into primitive aorta and pulmonary artery. Conduit of Miiller and genital gland. Ossification of clavicle and lower jaw. Cartilage of Meckel. Sixth week.-—The activity of the umbilical vesicle ceases. The pharyngeal clefts disappear. The vertebral column, primitive cranium and ribs assume the cartilaginous condition. Posterior roots of the nerves. Membranes of the nervous centres. Bladder. Kidneys. Tongue. Larynx. Thyroid gland. Germs of teeth. Genital tubercle and folds. Seventh week.—The muscles begin to be perceptible. Points of ossification of the ribs, scapula, shafts of humerus, femur, tibia, intermaxillary bone, palate, upper jaw (its first four points). Eighth week.—Distinction of arm and fore-arm, and of thigh and leg. Appearance of the interdigital clefts. Capsule of the lens and pupillary membrane. Completion of the interventricular and commencement of the interauricular septum. Salivary glands. Spleen. Suprarenal capsules. The larynx begins to become cartilaginous. All the vertebral bodies are cartilaginous. Points of ossification for the ulna, radius, fibula, and ilium. The two halves of the bony palate unite. Sympathetic nerve. Ninth week.—-Corpus striatum. Pericardium. Distinction between ovary and testicle. Formation of the genital furrow. Osseous nuclei of vertebral bodies and arches, frontal, vomer, malar bone, shafts of metacarpal bones, metatarsal bones and phalanges. The union of the hard palate is completed. Gall-bladder. Third month.—Formation of the fcetal placenta. The projection of the caudal extremity disappears. It is possible to distinguish the male and female organs at the commence- ment of the third month. The cloacal aperture divided into two parts. The cartila- ginous arches on the dorsal region of the spine close. Points of ossification for the occipital, sphenoid, os unguis, nasal bones, squamous portion of temporal and ischium. Orbital centre of superior maxillary bone. Commencement of formation of maxillary sinus. Pons Varolii. Fissure of Sylvius. Formation of eyelids and of hairs and nails. Mammary gland. Epiglottis. Union of the testicle with the canals of the Wolffian body. Prostate. Fourth month.—The closure of the cartilaginous arches of the spine is complete. Osseous points for the first sacral vertebra and pubes. Ossification of the malleus and incus. Corpus callosum. Membranous lamina spiralis; cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Tympanic ring. Fat in subcutaneous cellular tissue. Tonsils. Closure of genital furrow and formation of scrotum and prepuce. Fifth month.—The two layers of decidua begin to coalesce. Osseous nuclei of axis and odontoid process. Lateral points of first sacral vertebra; median points of second. Osseous points of lateral masses of ethmoid. Ossification of* stapes and petrous bone. Ossification of germs of teeth. Appearance of germs of permanent teeth. Organ of Corti. Eruption of hair on head. Sudoriferous glands. Glands of Brunner. Follicles of tonsils and base of tongue. Lymphatic glands. Commencement of limitation of uterus and vagina. Sixth month.— Points of ossification for the anterior root of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Lateral points of second sacral vertebra ; median points or third. The sacro-vertebral angle forms. Osseous points of the manubrium sterni and of the os calcis. The cerebral hemisphere covers the cerebellum. Papillae of the skin. Sebaceous glands. The free border of the nail projects from the corium of the dermis. Peyer's patches. The walls of the uterus thicken. Seventh month.—Additional points of first sacral vertebra; lateral points of third: median point of fourth. First osseous point of body of sternum. Osseous point for astra- galus. Disappearance of Meckel's cartilage. Cerebral convolutions. Insula of Eeil. Separation of tubercula quadrigemina. Disappearance of pupillary membrane. The testicle passes into the vaginal process of the peritoneum. Eighth month.—Additional points for the second sacral vertebra ; lateral points for the fourth ; median points for the fifth. Ninth month.—Additional points for the third sacral vertebra; lateral points for the fifth. Osseous point for the middle turbinated bone; for the body and great cornu of the kyoid ; for the second and third pieces of the body of the sternum; for the lower end of the femur. Ossification of the bony lamina spiralis and axis of the cochlea. Opening of the eyelids. The testicles are in the scrotum.