FIBULA. 133 surface presents in front a smooth triangular facet, broader above than below, and convex from above downwards, which articulates with a corresponding surface on the outer side of the astragalus. Behind and beneath the articular surface is a rough^ depression, which gives attachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The anterior border is thick and rough, and marked below by a depression for the attachment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The posterior border is broad and marked by a shallow groove, for the passage of the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The summit is rounded, and gives attachment to the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The Shaft presents three surfaces and three borders. The anterior border com- mences above in front of the head, runs vertically downwards to a little below the middle of the bone, and then, curving a little outwards, bifurcates below. The two lines so formed bound the triangular subcutaneous surface immediately above the outer side of the external malleolus. This border gives attachment to an inter- muscular septum, which separates the muscles on the anterior surface from those on the external. The internal border, or interosseous ridge, is situated close to the inner side of the preceding, and runs nearly parallel with it in the upper third of its extent, but diverges from it so as to include a broader space in the lower two-thirds. It commences above just beneath the head of the bone (sometimes it is quite indistinct for about an inch below the head), and terminates below at the apex of a rough triangular surface immediately above the articular facet of the external malleolus. It serves for the attachment of the interosseous membrane, and separates the extensor muscles in front from the flexor muscles behind. The portion of bone- included between the anterior and interosseous lines forms the anterior surface. The posterior border is sharp and prominent; it commences above at the base of the styloid process, and terminates below in the posterior border of the outer malleo- lus. It is directed outwards above, backwards in the middle of its course, back- wards and a little inwards below, and gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the muscles on the outer from those on the inner surface of the shaft. The portion of bone included between this line and the interosseous ridge, and which includes more than half of the whole circumference of the fibula, is known as the internal surface. Its upper three-fourths are subdivided into two parts, an an- terior and a posterior, by a very prominent ridge, the oblique line of the fibula, which commences above at the inner side of the head, and terminates by becoming con- tinuous with the interosseous ridge at the lower fourth of the bone. The oblique line attaches an aponeurosis which separates the Tibialis posticus from the Soleus above, and the Flexor longus pollicis below. This line sometimes ceases just before approaching the interosseous ridge. The anterior surface is the interval between the anterior and interosseous borders. It is extremely narrow and flat in the upper third of its extent; broader and grooved longitudinally in its lower third; it serves for the attachment of three muscles, the Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor proprius pollicis. The external surface, much broader than the preceding, and often deeply grooved, is directed outwards in the upper two-thirds of its course, backwards in the lower third,, where it is continuous with the posterior border of the external malleolus. This surface is completely occupied by the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The internal surface is the interval between the interosseous ridge and the posterior border, and occupies nearly two-thirds of the circumference of the bone. Its upper three-fourths are divided into an anterior and a posterior portion by a very prominent ridge already mentioned,, the oblique line of the fibula. The anterior portion is directed inwards, and is grooved for the attachment of the Tibialis posticus muscle. The posterior portion is continuous below with the rough triangular surface above the articular facet of the outer malleolus; it is directed backwards above, backwards and inwards at its middle, directly inwards