THE SKELETON. 84 Of the Shoulder. The Shoulder is placed upon the upper part and side of the chest, connecting the upper extremity to the trunk; it consists of two bones, the clavicle, and the scapula. The Clavicle. The Clavicle (clavis, a 'key '), or collar-bone, forms the anterior portion of the shoulder. It is a long bone, curved somewhat like the italic letter /, and placed nearly horizontally at the upper and anterior part of the thorax, immediately above the first rib. It articulates by its inner extremity with the upper border of the sternum, and, by its outer extremity, with the acromion process of the scapula; serving to sustain the upper extremity in the various positions which it assumes whilst, at the same time, it allows of great latitude of motion in the arm. The clavicle is nearly horizontal. It presents a double curvature, when looked at in front; the convexity being forwards at the sternal end, and the concavity at the scapular end. Its outer third is flattened from above downwards, and extends in the natural position of the bone, from a point opposite the coracoid process to the acromion. Its inner two-thirds are of a cylindrical form, and extend from the sternum to a point opposite the coracoid process of the scapula. External or Flattened Portion. The outer third is flattened from above down- wards, so as to present two surfaces, an upper and a lower; and two borders, an anterior and a posterior. The upper surface is flattened, rough, marked by impressions for the attachment of the Deltoid in front, and the Trapezius behind: between these two impressions, externally, a small portion of the bone is sub- cutaneous. The under surface is flattened. At its posterior border, where the prismatic joins with the flattened portion, is a rough eminence, the conoid tubercle ; this, in the natural position of the bone, surmounts the coracoid process of the scapula, and gives attachment to the conoid ligament. From this tubercle, an oblique line, occasionally a depression, passes forwards and outwards to near the outer end of the anterior border ; it is called the oblique line, and affords attachment to the trapezoid ligament. The anterior border is concave, thin, and rough ; it limits the attachment of the Deltoid, and occasionally presents, near the centre, a tubercle, the deltoid tubercle, which is sometimes distinct in the living subject. The posterior border is convex, rough, broader than the anterior, and gives attach- ment to the Trapezius. Internal or Cylindrical Portion. The cylindrical portion forms the inner hvo- thirds of the bone. It is curved, so as to be convex in front, concave behind, and is marked by three borders separating three surfaces. The anterior border is continuous with the anterior margin of the flat portion. At its commencement it is smooth and corresponds to the interval between the attachment of the Pectoralis major and Deltoid muscles ; about the centre of the clavicle it divides to enclose an elliptical space for the attachment of the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis major. This space extends inwards as far as the anterior margin of the sternal extremity. The superior border is continuous with the posterior margin of the flat portion, and separates the anterior from the posterior surface. At its commencement it is smooth and rounded, becomes rough towards the inner third for the attachment of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, and terminates at the upper angle of the sternal extremity. The posterior or subclavian border separates the posterior from the inferior surface, and extends from the conoid tubercle to the rhomboid impression. It forms the posterior boundary of the groove for the Subclavius muscle, and gives attachment to the fascia which encloses that muscle. The anterior surface is included between the superior and anterior borders. It is directed forwards and a little upwards at the sternal end, outwards and still more upwards at the acromial extremity, where it becomes continuous with the upper surface of the flat portion. Externally, it is smooth,