ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 622 The lower end of the rectum, the neck, base, and anterior surface of the bladder, the whole of the front, and the lower part of the posterior, wall of the vagina, have no peritoneal covering. Numerous folds are formed by the peritoneum, extending between the various organs. These serve to hold them in position, and, at the same time, enclose the vessels and nerves proceeding to each part. Some of the folds are called ligaments, from their serving to support the organs in position. Others, which connect certain parts of the intestine with the abdominal wall, constitute the mesenteries; and lastly, those are called omenta, which proceed from the stomach to certain viscera in its neighbourhood. The Ligaments, formed by folds of the peritoneum, include those of the liver, spleen, bladder, and uterus. They will be found described with their respective organs. The Omenta are the lesser omentum, the great omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser omentum (gastro-hepatic) is the duplicature which extends between the transverse fissure of the liver, and the lesser curvature of the stomach. It is extremely thin, and consists, as before said, of two layers of peritoneum. At the left border, its two layers pass on to the end of the oesophagus ; but at the right border, where it is free, they are continuous, and form a free rounded margin, which contains between its layers the hepatic artery, the jiuctus communis choledochus, amjjpjprtaj^vein^ lymphatics and the hepatic plexus^pJL^ejwes—all these structures being enclosed in loose areolar tissue, called Glisson's capsule. The great omentum (g astro-colic) is the largest peritoneal fold. It consists of four layers of peritoneum, two of which descend from the stomach, one from its anterior, the other from its posterior surface, and, uniting at its lower border, descend in front of the small intestines, as low down as the pelvis ; they then turn upon themselves, and ascend again as far as the transverse colon, where they separate and enclose that part of the intestine. These separate layers may be easily demonstrated in the young subject ; but, in the adult, they are more or less inseparably blended. The left border of the great omentum is continuous with the gastro-splenic omentum; its right border extends as far only as the duodenum. The great omentum is usually thin, presents a cribriform appearance, and always contains some adipose tissue, which, in fat subjects, accumulates in considerable quantity. Its use appears to be to protect the intestines from the cold, and to facilitate their movement upon each other during their vermicular action. The gastro-splenic omentum is the fold which connects the concave surface of the spleen to the cul-de-sac of the stomach, being continuous by its lower border with the great omentum. It contains the splenic vessels and vasa brevia. The Mesenteries are, the mesentery proper, the meso-csecum, the ascending, transverse, and descending meso-colon, the sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso- rectum. The mesentery (juto-or, eVrepoj/), so called from being connected to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine, is the broad fold of peritoneum which connects the convolutions of the jejunum and ileum with the posterior wall of the abdomen. Its root, the part connected with the vertebral column, is narrow, about six inches in length, and directed obliquely from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right sacro-iliac symphysis. Its intestinal border is much longer ; and here its two, layers separate, so_as_to enclose the Jnjgstjne, and form its peritoneal coat. Its breadth, between its vertebral-and intestinal border, is about four incheft Its upper border is continuous with the under surface of the transverse meso- colon ; its loiver border, with the peritoneum covering the caecum and ascending colon. It serves to retain the small intestines in their position, and contains between its layers the mesenteric vessels and nerves, the lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. The meso-cmcum, when it exists, serves to connect the back part of the cascum with the right iliac fossa; more frequently, the peritoneum passes merely in front of this portion of the large intestine.