78 THE SKELETON. proceeds gradually down- wards. To these may be added the occasional ex- istence, as described by Breschet, of two small epi- sternal centres, which make their appearance one on each side of the inter- clavicular notch. These are regarded by him as the anterior rudiments of a rib, of which the posterior rudiment is the anterior lamina of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. It occasionally happens that some of the segments are formed from more than one centre, the num- ber and position of which vary (fig. 73). Thus the first piece may have two, three, or even six centres. When two are present, they are generally situated one above the other, the upper one being the larger ; the second piece has seldom more than one ; the third, fourth, and fifth pieces are often formed from two centres placed laterally, the irregular union of which will serve to explain the occasional occurrence of the sternal foramen (fig. 74), or of the vertical fissure which occasionally intersects this part of the bone. Union of the va- rious centres commences from below, and proceeds upwards, taking place in the following order (fig. 72). The fifth piece is joined to the fourth soon after puberty ; the fourth to the third, between the twentieth and twenty- fifth years; the third to the second, between the thirty-fifth and fortieth years; the second is occa- sionally joined to the first, especially at an advanced 71.—Development of the Sternum, by Six Centres. T Lino "J Apjyt>a>ra,7i>ee In -number of Ami in dfode of Union, Ijvr Iff-piece [ J--6- me.fatal or Ka nubriwm Ufor2??j?ia:c or Gladiolus 6-y mo. 4- g?h birui {forXmlforin \zvg_18t* y r> Cctrtila 72. Time "f 1*1 Union fC if X \ S f 6 rarely a note, except, iti olclagc 35-1,0. 20-2Sfh year ||f ^| soon afterpuhcrtij partly cartilaginous in advanced life 73.—Peculiarities. / • for 1~2>wce Zor more eerdrm Z"? piece, usually oiia i,<h 5$) JSjalaced laterally 74. Arrest of D end ofme 7m cf lateralpieces producing — Sternal fissure 8c Eternal fora men