THE SKELETON. 4 flattened and of equal depth ; the former is placed on a lower level than the latter, and its inferior border is prolonged downwards so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the vertebra below. Its upper surface is concave transversely, and presents a projecting lip on each side ; its lower surface being convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and presenting laterally a shallow con- cavity, which receives the corresponding projecting lip of the adjacent vertebra. The pedicles are directed obliquely outwards, and the superior intervertebral notches are deeper, but narrower, than the inferior. The laminae are narrow, long, thinner above than below, and overlap each other; enclosing the spinal foramen, which is very large, and of a triangular form. The spinous processes are short and bifid at the extremity, to afford greater extent of surface for the attachment of muscles, the two divisions being often of unequal size. They increase in length from the fourth to the seventh. The transverse processes are short, directed downwards, outwards, and forwards, bifid at their extremity, and mai'ked by a groove along their upper surface, which runs downwards and out- wards from the superior intervertebral notch, and serves for the transmission of one of the cervical nerves. The transverse processes are pierced at their base by a foramen, for the transmission of the vertebral artery, vein, and plexus of nerves. Each process is formed by two roots : the anterior root arises from the side of the body, and corresponds to the ribs: the posterior root springs from the junction ot the pedicle with the lamina, and corresponds with the transverse processes in the dorsal region. It is by the junction of the two that the foramen for the vertebral vessels is formed. The extremities of each of these roots form the anterior and posterior tubercles of the transverse processes. Thejwticiilar processes are oblique : the superior are of an oval form, flattened and directed upwards and backwards; the inferior downwards and forwards. The peculiar vertebras in the cervical region are the first or Atlas ; the second or Axis; and the seventh or Vertebra prominens. The great modifications in the form of the atlas and axis are designed to admit of the nodding and rotatory movements of the head. The Atlas (fig. 2) (so named from supporting the globe of the head). The chief 2.— 1st Cervical Vertebra, or Atlas. peculiarities of this bone are, that it has neither body nor spinous process. The body is detached from the rest of the bone, and forms the odantojdjDrocess of the second vejrtebra; while the parts corresponding to the pedicles pass in^inuTtTtCna^ join to form the anterior arch. The atlas consists of an anterior arch, a posterior arch, and two lateral masses. The anterior arch forms about one-fifth of the bone; its anterior surface is convex, and presents about its centre a tubercle, for the attachment of the Longus colli muscle ; posteriorly it is concave, and marked by a smooth oval or oire&Iar facet, for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis. The posterior ardb forms about two-fifths of the circumference of the