646 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The Pancreas. Dissection. The pancreas may be exposed for dissection in three different ways: i. By raising the liver, drawing down the stomach, and tearing through the gastro-hepatic omentum and the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. 2. By raising the stomach, the arch of the colon, and great omentum, and then dividing the inferior layer of the trans- verse meso-colon. By dividing the two layers of peritoneum, which descend from the great curvature of the stomach to form the great omentum ; turning the stomach upwards, and then cutting through the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. (See fig. 332, p. 620.) The Pancreas (jrav-Kpiaq,, all flesli) is a conglomerate gland, analogous in its structure to the salivary glands. In shape it is transversely oblong, flattened from before backwards, and bears some resemblance to a dog's tongue, its right extremity being broad, and presenting a sort of angular bend from above down- wards, called the head, whilst its left extremity gradually tapers to form the tail, the intermediate portion being called the body. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and both hypo- chondriac regions. Its length varies from six to eight inches, its breadth is an inch and a half, and its thickness from half an inch to an inch, being greater at its right extremity and along its upper border. Its weight varies from two to three and a half ounces, but it may reach six ounces. The right extremity or head of the pancreas (fig 352) is curved upon itself from above downwards, and is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum. The 352.— The Pancreas and its Relations. common bile-duct descends behind, between the duodenum and pancreas; and the pancreatico-duodenal artery descends in front between the same parts. On the posterior aspect of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland, which passes trans- versely to the left, behind the superior mesenteric vessels, forming the back part of the canal in which they are contained. It is sometimes detached from the rest of the gland, and is called the lesser pancreas. The lesser end or tail of the pancreas is narrow ; it extends to the left as far as the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The body of the pancreas is convex in front, and covered by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon and the posterior surface of the stomach.