i34 THE SKELETON. I 12. —Plan of the Development of the Fibula. By Three Centres. txt^ TniUs about25i<.l tfi below. Its upper third is rough, for the attachment of the Soleus muscle; its lower part presents a triangular rough surface, connected to the tibia by a strong interosseous ligament, and between these two points the entire surface is covered by the fibres of origin of the Flexor longus pollicis muscle. At about the middle of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed downwards. In order to distinguish the side to which the bone belongs, hold it with the lower extremity downwards, and the broad groove for the Peronei tendons backwards, to- wards the holder: the triangular subcutaneous surface will then be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With two bones: the tibia and astragalus. Development. By three centres (fig. 112): one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft about the sixth week of foetal life, a little later than in the tibia, and extends gradually towards the ex- tremities. At birth both ends are cartilaginous. Ossification commences in the lower end in the second year, and in the upper one about the fourth year. The lower epiphysis, the first in which ossification commences, becomes united to the shaft first, contrary to the law which appears to prevail with regard to the junction of the epiphyses with the shaft: this takes place about the twentieth year ; the upper epi- physis is joined about the twenty-fifth year.* Attachment of Muscles. To the head, the Biceps, Soleus, and Peroneus longus : to the shaft, its anterior surface, the Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor <>«ct/»'e'v proprius pollicis ; to the internal surface, the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, and Flexor longus pollicis: to the external surface, the Peroneus longus and brevis. Ap}>ta rs at £ V4y. V- -TTnites <ilout20&i/- THE FOOT. (Figs. 113, 114.) The skeleton of the Foot consists of three divisions : the Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Phalanges. The Tarsus. The bones of the Tarsus are seven in number: viz., the calcaneum, or os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. The Calcaneum. The Calcaneum, or Os Golds, is the largest and strongest of the tarsal bones. It is irregularly cuboidal in form, and situated at the lower and back part of the foot, serving to transmit the weight of the body to the ground, and forming a strong lever for the muscles of the calf. It presents for examination six surfaces : supe- rior, inferior, external, internal, anterior, and posterior. The superior surface is formed behind, of the upper aspect of that part of the os calcis which projects backwards to form the heel. It varies in length in different individuals ; is convex from side to side, concave from before back- wards, and corresponds above to a mass of adipose substance placed in front of the tendo Achillis. In the middle of the superior surface are two (sometimes three) * It will be observed that in the fibula, as in other long bones, the epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery is directed is the one first joined to the shaft.