686 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. the smallest ramifications of the bronchi. The muscular coat is disposed in the form of a continuous layer of annular fibres, which may be traced upon the smallest bronchial tubes: they consist of the unstriped variety of muscular fibre. The mucous membrane lines the bronchi and its ramifications throughout, and is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium. According to the observations of Mr. Rainey,* the lobular bronchial tubes, on entering the substance of the lobules, divide and subdivide from four to nine times, according to the size of the lobule, continuing to diminish in size until they attain a diameter of ^-th to -50th of an inch. They then become changed in structure, losing their cylindrical form, and are continued onwards as irregular passages (intercellular passages, Rainey—air-sacs, Waters), through the substance of the lobule, their sides and extremities being closely covered by numerous saccular dilatations, the air-cells. This arrangement resembles most closely the naked-eye appearances observed in the reticulated structure of the lung of the tortoise, and other reptilia. Opinions have differed as to the existence of communications or anastamoses between the intercellular passages, or air-sacs. According to Dr. Waters,t these air-sacs, as he terms them, are arranged in groups, or ' lobulettes,' of five or six, which spring from the terminal dilatation of a single bronchial tube, but have no other communication with each other, or with neighbouring lobulettes, than that which is afforded by their common connection with the bronchial tubes. The air-cells, or alveoli (Waters), are small, polyhedral, alveolar recesses, separated from each other by thin septa, and communicating freely with the inter- cellular passages or air-sacs. They are well seen on the surface of the lung, and vary from o (Vo^h to Tyth of an inch in diameter; being largest on the surface, at the thin borders, and at the apex ; and smallest in the interior. At the termination of the bronchial tubes, in the intercellular passages, their constituent elements become changed : their walls are formed by an interlacing of the longitudinal elastic bundles with fibrous tissue ; the muscular fibres disappear, and the mucous membrane becomes thin and delicate, and lined with a layer of squamous epithelium. The latter membrane lines the air-cells, and forms by its reduplications the septa intervening between them. The Pulmonary Artery conveys the venous blood to the lungs : it divides into branches which accompany the bronchial tubes, and terminates in a dense capillary network, upon the walls of the intercellular passages and air-cells. From this network, the radicles of the pulmonary veins arise ; coalescing into large branches they accompany the arteries, and return the blood, purified by its passage through the capillaries, to the left auricle of the heart. In the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are usually above and in front of a bronchial tube, the vein below. The Pulmonary Capillaries form plexuses which lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane, on the walls and septa of the air-cells, and upon the walls of the intercellular passages. In the septa between the colls, the capillary network forms a single layer. The capillaries form a very minute network, the meshes of which are smaller than the vessels themselves ; J their walls are also exceedingly thin. The vessels of neighbouring lobules are distinct from each other, and do not anastomose ; and, according to Dr. Waters, those of the separate groups of intercellular passages, or air sacs (which groups he denominates lobulettes), are also independent ; so that in the septa between two adjoining lobulettes, there would be a double layer of capillaries, one layer belonging to each of the adjacent air-sacs, or intercellular passages. If this is really the arrangement of the vessels, it would follow that, in the septa between the air-cells (or alveoli), the blood in * Medico-Chiruryical Transactions, vol. xxviii. 1845. t ' The Anatomy of the Human Lung! i860, pp. 136—150. X The meshes are only o-ooi'" to o'oo8w in width, while the vessels are o,oo3/// to 0-005'''. Kolhker, Human Microscoinc Anatomy.