427 OF THE HEAD AND NECK. instance, the veins in the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins in the liver, and the larger veins returning blood from the osseous tissue. Sinuses are venous channels, which, in their structure and mode of distribution, differ altogether from the veins. They are found only in the interior of the skull, and are formed by a separation of the layers of the dura mater ; their outer coat consisting of fibrous tissue, their inner of a serous membrane continuous with the serous membrane of the veins. Veins have thinner walls than arteries, the difference in thickness being due to the small amount of elastic and muscular tissues which the veins contain. The superficial veins usually have thicker coats than the deep veins, and the veins of the lower limb are thicker than those of the upper. The minute structure of these vessels is described in the Introduction. The veins may be arranged into three groups :—1. Those of the head and neck, upper extremity, and thorax, which terminate in the superior vena cava. 2. Those of the lower limb, pelvis, and abdomen, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. 3. The cardiac veins, which open directly into the right auricle of the heart. Veins of the Head and Neck. The veins of the head and neck may be subdivided into three groups :—1. The veins of the exterior of the head. 2. The veins of the neck. 3. The veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium. The veins of the exterior of the head are, the Facial. Temporo-maxillary. Temporal. Posterior auricular. Internal maxillary. Occipital. The Facial Vein passes obliquely across the side of the face, extending from the inner angle of the orbit, downwards and outwards, to the anterior margin of the Masseter muscle. It lies to the oujbei^sjcle of. thejfacial artery, and is not so tortuous as that vessel. It commences in the frontal region, where it is called the frontal vein ; at the inner angle of the eye it has received the name of the angular vein ; and from this point to its termination is called the facial vein. The frontal vein commences on the anterior part of the skull, by a venous plexus, which communicates with the anterior branches of the temporal vein ; the veins converge to form a single trunk, which runs downwards near the middle line of the forehead parallel with the vein of the opposite side, and unites with it at the root of the nose, by a transverse trunk, called the nasal arch. Occasionally, the frontal veins join to form a single trunk, which bifurcates at the root of the nose into the two angular veins. At the nasal arch the branches diverge, and run along the side of the root of the nose. The frontal vein as it descends upon the forehead receives the supraorbital vein; the dorsal veins of the nose terminate in the nasal arch; and the angular vein receives the veins of the ala nasi on its inner side, and the superior palpebral veins on its outer side ; it moreover communicates with the ophthalmic vein, which establishes an important anastomosis between this vessel and the cavernous sinus. The facial vein commences at the inner angle of the orbit, being a continuation of the angular vein. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards, beneath the Zygomaticus major muscle, descends along the anterior border of the Masseter, crosses over the body of the lower jaw, with the facial artery, and, passing obliquely outwards and backwards, beneath the Platysma and cervical fascia, unites with a branch of communication from the temporo-maxillary vein, to form a trunk of large size which enters the internal jugular. Branches. The facial vein receives, near the angle of the mouth, communis eating branches from the pterygoid plexus. It is also joined by the inferior