xliii FIBROUS TISSUE. when injected forcibly into it—as from a wound of the lung or bowel- may be diffused into the remotest parts. The white fibrous tissue (Fig. Y.) consists of bundles of wavy fibres, inter- lacing with each other, each composed of minute filaments, or fibrillar, which appear homogeneous, and measure from to -2-010 0 of an inch in diameter. The larger fibres have no definite size, but are supposed to Fig. V.—White fibrous tissue. High power. be solid masses formed by an agglutination as it were of the ultimate fibrillse. Acted upon by acetic acid, the white fibrous tissue swells up into an indistinct uniform mass, which gradually becomes indistinguishable; and thus in the areolar tissue the yellow elastic element comes alone into view. The yellow elastic fibrous tissue (Fig. VI.) is an aggregation of fibres, which are considerably larger in size than the fibrillse of the white fibrous element, varying from -^j^ to 4 *0 0 of an inch in diameter (Harley). The fibres branch and anastomose freely with one another. They are homogeneous in appearance, with dark borders, and are usually seen curled up at their broken ends. They remain unaltered by acetic acid. Each of these elements of the connective tissue is developed from cells. Kolliker describes the yellow elastic fibres as developed from the stellate branching corpuscles, which may sometimes be found free in the areolar tissue, and which Virchow has denominated £ connective-tissue-corpuscles ' (Fig. VII.); while the white fibrous tissue is formed from the coalescence of fusiform cells, which elongate into fibrillse as shown by Fig. VIII. The two tissues just described are very widely distributed in the body, especially the white fibrous tissue. This latter forms nearly the whole of all the firm investing membranes ; viz. the muscular fasciae, the periosteum, the investments of the various glands (such as the tunica albuginea testis, the capsule of the kidney, &c), the investing sheath of the nerves (neuri- lemma), and of various organs, as the penis and the eye (sheath of the corpora cavernosa and spongiosum, sclerotic and choroid). Into all these parts, however, the elastic tissue enters in greater or less proportion. The tendons and most of the ligaments are also formed almost entirely of the white fibrous tissue, but with some elastic fibres intermixed. The basis of the serous and mucous membranes is formed of connective tissue, disposed in a layer. The common subcutaneous cellular or cellulo-adipose tissue has been taken above as the typical form from which to describe connective tissue. Connective tissue also enters largely into the forma-