MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 242 The Splenitis is situated at the back of the neck and upper part of the dorsal region. At its origin, it is a single muscle, narrow and pointed in form ; but it soon becomes broader, and divides into two portions, which have separate insertions. It arises, by tendinous fibres, from the lower half of the ligamentum nucha?, from the spinous processes of the last cervical and of the six upper dorsal vertebras and from the supraspinous ligament. From this origin, the" 'fleshy fibres Droceed obliquely upwards and outwards, forming a broad flat muscle, which divides as it ascends into two portions, the Splenius capitis and Splenius colli. The Splenius Capitis is inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and into the rough surface on the occipital bone beneath the superior curved line. The Splenius 'Colli is inserted, by tendinous fasciculi, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebra?. The Splenius is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by a triangular interval, in which is seen the Complexus. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, from which it is separated below by the R-homboidei and the Serratus posticus superior. It is covered at its insertion by the Sterno-mastoid. By its deep surface, with the Spinalis dorsi, Longissimus dorsi, Semispinalis colli, Complexus, Trachelo-mastoid, and Transversalis colli. Nerves. The Splenius and Superior serratus are supplied from the external posterior branches of the cervical nerves ; the Inferior serratus from the external branches of the dorsal nerves. Actions. The Serrati are respiratory muscles acting in antagonism to each other. The Serratus posticus superior elevates the ribs ; it is, therefore, an inspi- ratory muscle ; while the Serratus inferior draws the lower ribs downwards, and is a muscle of expiration. This muscle is also probably a tensor of the vertebral aponeurosis. The Splenii muscles of the two sides, acting together, draw the head directly backwards, assisting the Trapezius and Complexus; acting sepa- rately, they draw the head to one or the other side, and slightly rotate it, turning the face to the same side. They also assist in supporting the head in the erect position. Fourth Later. Sacral and Lumbar Regions. Cervical Region. Erector Spina?. Cervicalis Ascendens. Dorsal Region. Transversalis Colli. Sacro-Lumbalis. Trachelo-Mastoid. Musculus Accessorius ad Sacro-Lumbalem. Complexus. Longissimus Dorsi. Biventer Cervicis. Spinalis Dorsi. Spinalis Colli. Dissection. To expose the muscles 01 the fourth laj^er, remove entirely the Serrati and vertebral aponeurosis. Then detach the Splenius by separating its attachment to the spinous processes, and reflecting' it outwards. The Erector Spinee (fig. 161), and its prolongations in the dorsal and cervical regions, fill up the vertebral groove on each side of the spine. It is covered in the lumbar region by the lumbar aponeurosis ; in the dorsal region by the Serrati muscles and the vertebral aponeurosis; and in the cervical region by a layer of cervical fascia continued beneath the Trapezius. This large muscular and tendinous mass varies in size and structure at different parts of the spine. In the sacral region, the Erector spina? is narrow and pointed, and its origin chiefly tendinous in structure. In the lumbar region, the muscle becomes enlarged, and forms a large fleshy mass. In the dorsal region, it subdivides into two parts, which gradually diminish iu size as they ascend to be inserted into the vertebra? and ribs, and are gradually lost in the cervical region, where a number of special muscles are superadded; which are continued upwards to the head, and support it upon the spine. The Erector spina? arises from the sacro-iliac groove, and from the anterior