THE PINNA. 587 air by which sound is produced, and the latter conducts those vibrations to the tympanum. The pinna, or auricle (fig. 309), is formed by a layer of cartilage, covered with integument, and connected to the commencement of the auditory canal: it is of an ovoid form, its surface uneven, with its larger end directed upwards. Its outer surface is irregularly concave, directed slightly forwards, and presents numerous eminences and depressions which result from the foldings of its fibro- cartilaginous element. To each of these names have been assigned. Thus, the ex- ternal prominent rim of the auricle is called the helix. Another curved prominence 309 -The Pinna or Auricle. lM ith and in f t f th h H ; Outer Surface. * ' . ' called the antihelix ; this bifurcates above, so as to enclose a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix. The narrow curved de- pression between the helix and antihelix is called the fossa of the helix {fossa inno- minata, scaphoidea), the antihelix describes a curve round a deep, capacious cavity, the concha, which is partially divided into two parts by the commencement of the helix. In front of the concha, and project- ing backwards over the meatus, is a small pointed eminence, the tragus ; so called from its being generally covered, on its under surface, with a tuft of hair, resembling a goat's beard. Opposite the tragus, and se- parated from it by a deep notch (incisura intertragica), is a small tubercle, the anti- tragus. Below this is the lobule, composed of tough areolar and adipose tissue, wanting the firmness and elasticity of the rest of the pinna. Structure of the pinna. The pinna is composed of a thin plate of yellow carti- lage, covered with integument, and connected to the surrounding parts by ligaments, and a few muscular fibres. The integument is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and furnished with sebaceous glands, which are most numerous in the concha and scaphoid fossa. The cartilage of the pinna consists of one single piece ; it gives form to this part of the ear, and upon its surface are found all the eminences and depressions above described. It does not enter into the construction of all parts of the auricle ; thus it does not form a constituent part of the lobule ; it is deficient, also, between the tragus and beginning of the helix, the notch between them being filled up by dense fibrous tissue. It presents several intervals or fissures in its substance, which partially separate the different parts. The fissure of the helix is a short, vertical slit, situated at the fore part of the pinna, immediately behind a small conical projection of cartilage, opposite the first curve of the helix (process of the helix). Another fissure, the fissure of the tragus, is seen upon the anterior surface of the tragus. The antihelix is divided below, by a deep fissure, into two parts : one part terminates by a pointed, tail-like extremity {'processus cauclatus) ; the other is continuous with the antitragus. The cartilage of the pinna is very pliable, elastic, of a yellowish colour, and similar in structure to the cartilages of the nose. The ligaments of the pinna consist of two sets :—I. Those connecting it to the side of the head. 2. Those connecting the various parts of its cartilage together. The former, the most important, are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament passes from the posterior surface of the concha