CRANIAL NERVES. 5°° Third Nerve. (Figs. 272, 273.) The Third Nerve (motor oculi) supplies all the muscles of the orbit, except the Superior oblique and External rectus; it also sends motor filaments to the iris. It is a rather large nerve, of rounded form and firm texture, having its apparent origin from the inner surface of the crus cerebri, immediately in front of the pons Varolii. The deep origin may be traced into the substance of the crus, where some of its fibres are connected with the locus niger; others run downwards, among the longitudinal fibres of the pons ; whilst others ascend, to be connected with the tubercula quadrigemina, and valve of Vieussens. According to Stilling, the fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle and locus niger, and arise from a grey nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. On emerging from the brain, the nerve is invested with a sheath of pia mater, and enclosed in a prolongation from the arachnoid. It then pierces the dura mater on the outer side of the anterior clinoid process, where its serous covering is reflected from it, and it passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, above the other orbital nerves, receiving in its course one or two filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. It then divides into two branches, which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the External rec- 272.—Nerves of the Orbit. Seen from above, tus muscle. On passing through the fissure, the nerve is placed below the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The superior division, the smaller, passes inwards across the optic nerve, and supplies the Superiorrectus and Levator palpebrae. The inferior division, the larger, divides into three branches. One passes be- neath the optic nerve to the Internal rectus; an- other to the Inferior rectus; and the third, the largest of the three, passes for- wards between the Inferior and External recti, to the Inferior oblique. From the latter, a short thick branch is given off to the lower part of the lenticular gan- glion, forming its inferior root, as well as two fila- ments to the Inferior rec- tus. All these branches enter the muscles on their ocular surface. &y rit.Troehleuj>7V. Sensory |\S (, to Dura -Mater Fourth Nerve. (Fig. 272.) The Fourth, or trochlear nerve, the smallest of the cranial nerves, supplies the Superior oblique muscle. It arises from the upper part of the valve of, Vieussens, immediately behind the testis, and divides beneath the corpora quadri- gemina, into two fasciculi; the anterior one arising from a nucleus of grey matter,