BONE. liii identical. The lamellated or concentric arrangement is indeed lost, and the Haversian canals appear like half-tubes instead of circular spaces, and these tubes are seen to branch and communicate (so that each separate Haversian canal runs only a short distance), but in other respects the structure has much the same appearance as in transverse sections. In sections of thin plates of bone (as in the walls of the cells which form the cancellous tissue), the Haversian canals are absent, whenever the thickness of bone is not too great to allow of its nutritious juices being absorbed from the fibrous membrane coating either side by means of the lacuna? and canaliculi only; but when the thickness becomes at all considerable, Haversian systems begin to appear. Thus the spaces of the cancellous tissue (medullary spaces) have the same function there that the Haversian canals have in the more compact tissue. In the long bones, by maceration in dilute mineral acid, it may easily be shown that besides these microscopic lamella} surrounding each Haversian canal, the whole bone is comj)osed of distinct laminas, concen- trically disposed around the medullary tube. These laminae are crossed and pinned together, as it were, by the fibres of bone running obliquely through them, which were first described by Dr. Sharpey, and named by him perforating fibres. In the flat bones parallel or superimposed plates can be demonstrated similarly held together by perforating fibres, which are more numerous than in the long bones.* Besides the Haversian canals larger and irregularly shaped spaces are found—Haversian spaces—which are, as it were, a transition from the Haversian canals to the medullary spaces of the cancellous tissue. It seems as if both the medullary spaces and the Haversian spaces are formed by absorption, as we shall try to explain in speaking of the development and growth of bone. These Haversian spaces are found chiefly in growing bones; but they occur also, though in less number, in the adult bones. They have irregular jagged outlines, and the adjoining systems of lacunas and canaliculi are seen to be eaten away by them. When the microscopic structure of bone was first demonstrated, it was believed that the lacunas were solid cells, and their canaliculi solid processes from those cells. Subsequently, when it was seen that the Haversian canals are channels, which lodge the vessels of the part, and the canaliculi and lacunas spaces by which the plasma of the blood, or the blood itself, circulates through the tissue, it was taught that the lacunas were hollow spaces filled during life with that fluid, and only lined (if lined at all} by a delicate membrane. But this view appears also to be delusive. Examination of the structure of the bone, when recent, has led Virchow to believe that the so-called lacunas are really filled up during life with a nucleated cell, the processes from wdrich pass down the canaliculi. It is by means of these cells that the fluids necessary for nutrition are brought into contact with the ultimate tissue of the bone. The animal part of a bone may be obtained by immersing the bone for a considerable time in dilute mineral acid, after which process the bone comes out exactly the same size and shape as before, but perfectly Sharpey, in Quttin's Anatomy, 7th edit., p. xcv