OF THE SPINE. *53 dorsal. Their size is greatest in the lumbar region. In thickness they vary not only in the different regions of the spine, but in different parts of the same region : thus, they are uniformly thick in the lumbar region ; thickest, in front, in the cervical and lumbar regions which are convex forwards ; and behind, to a slight extent, in the dorsal region. They thus contribute, in a great measure, to the curvatures of the spine in the neck and loins ; whilst the concavity of the dorsal region is chiefly due to the shape of the bodies of the vertebrae. The interverte- bral discs form about one-fourth of the spinal column, exclusive of the first two vertebrae ; they are not equally distributed, however, between the various bones ; the dorsal portion of the spine having, in proportion to its length, a much smaller quantity than in the cervical and lumbar regions, which necessarily gives to the latter parts greater pliancy and freedom of movement. The intervertebral discs are adherent, by their surfaces, to the adjacent parts of the bodies of the vertebras ; and by their circumference are closely connected in front to the anterior, and behind to the posterior common ligament; whilst, in the dorsal region, they are connected laterally, by means of the interarticular ligament, to the heads of those ribs which articulate with two vertebral; they, consequently, form part of the articular cavities in which the heads of these bones are received. The intervertebral substance is composed, at its circumference, of laminae of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage; and, at its centre, of a soft, elastic, pulpy matter. The laminae are arranged concentrically one within the other, with their edges turned towards the corresponding surfaces of the vertebrae, and consist of alternate plates of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage. These plates are not quite vertical in their direction, those near the circumference being curved outwards and closely approximated ; whilst those nearest the centre curve in the opposite direction, and are somewhat more widely separated. The fibres of which each plate is composed, are directed, for the most part, obliquely from above downwards; the fibres of an adjacent plate have an exactly opposite arrangement, varying in their direction in every layer ; whilst in some few they are horizontal. This laminar arrangement belongs to about the outer half of each disc, the central part being occupied by a soft, pulpy, highly elastic substance, of a yellowish colour, which rises up con- siderably above the surrounding level, when the disc is divided horizontally. This substance presents no concentric arrangement, and consists of white fibrous tissue, with cells of variable shape and size interspersed. The pulpy matter, which is especially well developed in the lumbar region, is separated from immediate con- tact with the vertebrae by the interposition of thin plates of cartilage. 2. Ligaments connecting the Lamina. Ligamenta Subnava. The Ligamenta Stibflava (fig. 116) are interposed between the laminae of the vertebrae, from the^axis to the sa^^rm^ They are most distinct when seen from the interior of the spinal canal; when viewed from the outer surface, they appear short, being overlapped by the laminae. Each ligament consists of two lateral portions, which commence on each side at the root of either articular process, and pass backwards to the point where the laminae converge to form the spinous process, where their margins are thickest, and separated by a slight interval, filled up with areolar tissue. These ligaments consist of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres of which, almost perpendicular in direction, are attached to the anterior surface of the margin of the lamina above, and to the posterior surface, as well as to the margin of the lamina below. In the cervical region, they are thin in texture, but very broad and long ; they become thicker in the dorsal region : and in the lumbar acquire very considerable thickness. Their highly elastic property serves to pre- serve the upright posture, and to assist in resuming it, after the spine has been flexed. These ligaments do not exist between the occiput and atlas, or between the atlas and axis.