LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 585 adapted to the surface of the globe, over which they constantly glide. The use of their secretion is to prevent adhesion of the lids. The eyelashes (cilia) are attached to the free edges of the eyelids ; they are short, thick, curved hairs, arranged in a double or triple row at the margin of the lids : those of the upper lid, more numerous and longer than the lower, curve upwards ; those of the lower lid curve downwards, so that they do not interlace in closing the lids. The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It lines the inner surface of the eyelids, and is reflected over the fore part of the sclerotic and cornea. In each of these situations, its structure presents some peculiarities. The palpebral portion of the conjunctiva is thick, opaque, highly vascular, and covered with numerous papillae, which, in the disease called granular lids, become greatly hypertrophied. At the margin of the lids, it becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the ducts of the Meibomian glands, and through the lachrymal canals, with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. At the outer angle of the upper lip^it may be traced along the lachrymal ducts into 4the lachrymal gland; and at the inner angle of the eye, it forms a semilunar fold, the plica semilunaris. The folds formed by the reflection of the conjunctiva from the lids onto the eye are called the superior and inferior palpebral folds, the former being the deeper of the two. Upon the sclerotic, the conjunctiva is loosely con- nected to the globe : it becomes thinner, loses its papillary structure, is transparent, and only slightly vascular in health. Upon the cornea, the conjunctiva is ex- tremely thin and closely adherent, and no vessels can be traced into it in the adult in a healthy state. In the foetus, fine capillary loops extend, for some little distance forwards, into this membrane ; but in the adult, they pass only to the circumference of the cornea. The ca/nimmla lachrymalis is a small, reddish, conical-shaped body, situated at the inner canthus of the eye, and filling up the small triangular space in this situation, the lacus lachrymalis. It consists of a cluster of follicles similar in structure to the Meibomian, covered with mucous membrane, and is the source of the whitish secretion which constantly collects at the inner angle of the eye. A few slender hairs are attached to its surface. On the outer side of the caruncula is a slight semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the concavity of which is directed towards the cornea ; it is called the plica semilunaris. Between its two layers is found a thin plate of cartilage. This structure is considered to be the rudiment of the third eyelid in birds, the membrana nictitans. Lachrymal Apparatus. (Fig. 308.) The lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal g'laud, which secretes the tears, and its excretory ducts, which convey the fluid to the surface of the eye. This fluid is carried away by the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and along the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose. The lachrymal gland is lodged in a depression at the outer angle of the orbit, on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper convex surface is in contact with the periosteum of the orbit, to which it is connected by a few fibrous bands. Its under concave surface rests upon the convexity of the eyeball, and upon the Superior and External recti muscles. Its vessels and nerves enter its posterior border, whilst its anterior margin is closely adherent to the back part of the upper eyelid, and is covered, on its inner surface, by a reflection of the con- junctiva. This margin is separated from the rest of the gland by a single depres- sion, hence it is sometimes described as a separate lobe, called the palpebral portion of the gland. In structure and general appearance the lachrymal resembles the salivary glands. Its ducts, about seven in number, run obliquely beneath the mucous membrane for a short distance, and separating from each other, open by a series of minute orifices on the upper and outer half of the conjunctiva, near its