639 THE LIVER. it is shorter and shallower than the anterior portion. It lodges in the footns the ductus venosus, and in the adult a slender fibrous cord, the obliterated remains of that vessel. The transverse or portal fissure, is a short but deep fissure, about two inches in length, extending transversely across the under surface of the right lobe, nearer to its posterior than its anterior border. It joins, nearly at right angles, with the longitudinal fissure. By the older anatomists, this fissure was considered the gateway (porta) of the liver; hence the large vein which enters at this point was called, the portal vein. Besides this vein, the fissure transmits the hepatic artery and nerves, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics. At their entrance into the fissure, the hepatic duct lies in front to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between (fig. 351). 345.—The Liver. Under Surface. The fissure for the gall-bladder (fossa cystis fell&ce) is a shallow, oblong fossa, placed on the under surface of the right lobe, parallel with the longitudinal fissure. It extends from the anterior free margin of the liver, which is occa- sionally notched for its reception, to near the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the vena, cava is a short deep fissure, occasionally a complete canal, which extends obliquely upwards from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fissure, to the posterior border of that organ, where it joins the fissure for the ductus venosus. On slitting open the inferior vena cava which is contained in it, a deep fossa is seen, at the bottom of which the hepatic veins cjDnrmunicate with this vessel. This fissure is separated from the transverse fissure by the lobus caudatus, and from the longitudinal fissure by the lobulus Spigelii. Lobes. The lobes of the liver, like the ligaments and fissures, are five in number : the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, the lobulus Spigelii, and the lobus caudatus. The right lobe is much larger than the left; the proportion between them being as six to one. It occupies the right hypochondrium, and is separated from the left lobe, on its upper surface, by the longitudinal ligament; on its under surface, by the longitudinal fissure ; and in front, by a deep notch. It is of a quadrilateral form, its under surface being marked by three fissures : the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava; and by two shallow impressions, one in front (impressio colica), for the hepatic flexure of the