Surgical Anatomy of the Perineum and Ischio- rectal Region. Dissection. The student should select a well-developed muscular subject, free from fat, and trie dissection should be commenced early, in order that the parts may be examined in as recent a state as possible. A staff having been introduced into the bladder, and the subject placed in the position shown in fig. 404, the scrotum should be raised upwards, and retained in that position, and the rectum moderately distended with tow. The space which, is now exposed, corresponds to the inferior aperture, or outlet of the pelvis. Its deep boundaries are, in front, the pubic arch and subpubic ligament; behind, the tip of the coccyx ; and on each side, the ramus of the pubes and ischium, the tuberosity of the ischium, and great sacro-sciatic ligament. The space included by these boundaries is somewhat lozenge-shaped, and is limited on the surface of the body by the scrotum, in front, by the buttocks behind, and on each side by the inner side of the thighs. It measures, from before backwards, about four inches, and about three in the broadest part of its transverse diameter, between the ischial tuberosities. A line drawn transversely between the anterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium, on each side, in front of the anus, subdivides this space into two portions. The anterior portion contains the penis and urethra, and is called the perinceum. The posterior portion contains the termination of the rectum, and is called the ischio-rectal region. Ischio-Rectal Region. The ischio-rectal region corresponds to the portion of the outlet of the pelvis situated immediately behind the perineum : it contains the termination of the rectum. A deep fossa, filled with fat, is seen on either side of the intestine, between it and the tuberosity of the ischium: this is called the ischio-rectal fossa. The ischio-rectal region presents, in the middle line, the aperture of the anus; around this orifice, the integument is thrown into numerous folds, which are obliterated on distension of the intestine. The integument is of a dark colour, continuous with the mucous membrane of the rectum, and provided with numerous follicles, which occasionally inflame and suppurate, and may be mistaken for fistulee. The veins around the margin of the anus are occasionally much dilated, forming a number of hard, pendent masses, of a dark bluish colour, covered partly by mucous membrane, and partly by the integument. These tumours constitute the disease called external piles. Dissection. Make an incision through the integument, along the median line, from the base of the scrotum to the anterior extremity of the anus; carry it round the margins of this aperture to its posterior extremity, and continue it backwards about an inch behind the tip of the coccyx. A transverse incision should now be carried across the base of the scrotum, joining the anterior extremity of the preceding; a second, carried in the same direction, should be made in front of the anus; and a third at the posterior extremity of the gut. These incisions should be sufficiently extensive to enable the dissector to raise the integument from the inner side of the thighs. The flaps of skin corresponding to the ischio-rectal region (fig. 404—8), should now be removed. In dissecting the integument from this region, great care is required, otherwise the External sphincter will be removed, as it is intimately ad- herent to the skin. The superficial fascia is exposed on the removal of the skin: is is very thick, areolar in texture, and contains much fat in its meshes. In it are found ramifying