ARTERIES. 364 Within the skull, as it winds round the medulla oblongata, it is placed between the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the suboccipital nerve. Branches. These may be divided into two sets, those given off in the neck, and those within the cranium. Cervical Branches. Cranial Branches. Lateral spinal. Posterior meningeal. Muscular. Anterior spinal. Posterior spinal. Inferior cerebellar. The lateral spinal branches enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, each dividing into two branches. Of these one passes along the roots of the nerves to supply the spinal cord and its membranes, anastomosing with the other spinal arteries ; the other is distributed to the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebras. Muscular branches are given off to the deep muscles of the neck, where the vertebral artery curves round the articular process of the atlas. They anastomose with the occipital and deep cervical arteries. v; -• ^1 The posterior meningeal are one or two small branches given off from the vertebral opposite the foramen magnum. They ramify between the bone and dura mater in the cerebellar fossa3, and supply the falx cerebelli. The anterior spinal is a small branch, larger than the posterior spinal, which arises near the termination of the vertebral, and unites with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the medulla oblongata. The single trunk, thus formed, descends a short distance on the front of the spinal cord, and joins with a succession of small branches which enter the spinal canal through some of the intervertebral foramina ; these branches are derived from the vertebral and ascend- ing cervical in the neck ; from the intercostal, in the dorsal region ; and from the lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries in the lower part of the spine. They unite, by means of ascending and descending branches, to form a single anterior median artery, which extends as far as the lower part of the spinal cord. This vessel is placed beneath the pia mater along the anterior median fissure ; it supplies that membrane, and the substance of the cord, and sends off branches at its lower part to be distributed to the cauda equina. The posterior^spinal arises from the vertebral, at the side of the medulla oblongata ; passing backwards to the posterior aspect of the spinal cord, it descends on either side, lying behind the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; and is re- inforced by a succession of small branches, which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, and by which it is continued to the lower part of the cord, and to the cauda equina. Branches from these vessels form a free anasto- mosis round the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and communicate, by means of very tortuous transverse branches, with the vessel of the opposite side. At its commencement, it gives off an ascending branch, which terminates on the side of the fourth ventricle. The inferior cerebellar artery (fig. 214), the largest branch of the vertebral, winds backwards round the upper part of the medulla oblongata, passing between the origin of the spinal accessory and pneumogastric nerves, over the restiform body to the under surface of the cerebellum, where it divides into two branches : an internal one, which is continued backwards to the notch between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum; and an external one, which supplies the under surface of the cere- bellum, as far as its outer border, where it anastomoses with the superior cerebellar. Branches from this artery supply the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The Basilar artery, so named from its position at the base of the skull, is a single trunk formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries ; it extends from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, where it divides into two terminal branches, the posterior cerebral arteries. Its branches are, on each side, the following: