ankle-joint. .97 deep. The superficial layer is a strong, flat, triangular band, attached, above, to the apex and anterior and posterior borders of the inner malleolus. The most anterior fibres pass forwards to be inserted into the scaphoid; the middle descend almost perpendicularly to be inserted into the os calcis ; and the posterior fibres pass backwards and outwards to be attached to the inner side of the astragalus. The deeper layer consists of a short, thick, and strong fasciculus, which passes 143.—Ankle-Joint: Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations. Internal View Right Side. from the apex of the malleolus to the inner surface of the astragalus, below the articular surface. This ligament is covered by the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitoruin muscles. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 144) consists of three fasciculi, taking different directions, and separated by distinct intervals; for which reason it is described by some anatomists as three distinct ligaments.* This would seem the preferable description, were it not that the old nomenclature has passed into general use. The anterior fasciculus, the shortest of the three, passes from the anterior margin of the summit of the external malleolus, downwards and forwards, to the astragalus, in front of its external articular facet. The posterior fasciculus, the most deeply seated, passes from the depression at the inner and back part of the external malleolus to the astragalus, behind its ex- ternal malleolar facet. Its fibres are almost horizontal in direction. The middle fasciculus, the longest of the three, is a narrow rounded cord, passing from the apex of the external malleolus downwards and slightly backwards to the middle of the outer side of the os calcis. It is covered by the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. There is no posterior ligament, its place being supplied by the transverse liga- ment of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. The Synovial Membrane invests the inner surface of the ligaments, and sends a duplicature upwards between the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula for a short distance. * Humphry, on The Skeleton, p. 559.