HEART—RIGHT VENTRICLE. 657 The Right Ventricle is triangular in form, and extends from the right auricle to near the apex of the heart. Its anterior or upper surface is rounded and convex, and forms the larger part of the front of the heart. Its posterior or under surface is flattened, rests upon the Diaphragm, and forms only a small part of the back of the heart. Its inner wall is formed by the partition between the two ventricles, the septum ventriculorum, the surface of which is convex, and bulges into the cavity of the right ventricle. Superiorly, the ventricle forms a conical prolongation, the infundibulum, or conns arteriosus, from which the pulmonary artery arises. The walls of the right ventricle are thinner than those of the left, the proportion between them being as 1 to 2 (Bizot). The wall is thickest at the base, and gradually becomes thinner towards the apex. The cavity, which equals that of the left ventricle, is capable of containing about two fluid ounces. To examine the interior, an incision should he made a little to the right of the anterior ventricular groove from the pulmonary artery to the apex of the heart, and should he carried up from thence along the right border of the ventricle, as far as the auriculo- ventricular opening. The following parts present themselves for examination :— 0 enin s / ^-nricul°"ven^r^cu^ar- & 1 Opening of the pulmonary artery. Valves . . . (Tricuspid. I Semilunar. And a muscular and tendinous apparatus connected with the tricuspid valve :— Columnse carnese. Chordae tendineae. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is the large oval aperture of communication between the auricle and ventricle. It is situated at the base of the ventricle, near the right border of the heart, and corresponds to the centre of the sternum between the third costal cartilages. The opening is about an inch in diameter,* oval from side to side, surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining mem- brane of the heart, and rather larger than the corresponding aperture on the left side, being sufficiently large to admit the ends of three fingers. It is guarded by the tricuspid valve. The opening of the pulmonary artery is circular in form, and situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum. It is placed on the left side of the auriculo-ventricular opening, upon the anterior aspect of the heart, and corresponds to the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to the sternum. Its orifice is guarded by the pulmonary semilunar valves. The tricuspid valve consists of three segments of a triangular or trapezoidal shape, formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the heart, strengthened by a layer of fibrous tissue, and containing, according to Kiirschner and Senac, muscular fibres. These segments are connected by their bases to the auriculo- ventricular orifice, and by their sides with one another, so as to form a continuous annular membrane, which is attached round the margin of the auriculo-ventricular opening, their free margins and ventricular surfaces affording attachment to a number of delicate tendinous cords, the chordce teudinece. The largest and most * In the Pathological Transactions, vol. vi. p. 119, Dr. Peacock has given some careful researches upon the weight and dimensions of the heart in health and disease. He states, as the result of his investigations, that, in the healthy adult heart, the right auriculo- ventricular aperture has a mean circumference of 54-4 lines, or 4§| inches; the left auriculo-ventricular aperture a mean circumference of 44-3 lines, or 3— inches; the pul- monic orifice of 40 lines, or 3i§ inches; and the aortic orifice of 35*5 lines, or 3^ inches : but the dimensions of the orifices varied greatly in different cases, the right auriculo- ventricular aperture having a range of from 45 to 60 lines, and the others in the same proportion. U U