OP THE ABDOMEN. 249 162.—Dissection of Abdomen. are received between corresponding processes of the Serratus magnns; the three lower ones diminish in size from above downwards, receiving between them cor- responding processes from the Latissimus * dorsT From these attachments, the fleshy fibres proceed in various directions. Those from the lowest ribs pass nearly verti- cally downwards, to be inserted into the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium ; the middle and upper fibres, directed downwards and forwards, ter- minate in tendinous fibres, which spread out into a broad aponeurosis, This apo- neurosis, joined with that of the opposite muscle along the median line, covers the whole of the front of the abdomen ; above it is connected with the lower border of the Pectoralis major ; below, its fibres are closely aggregated together, and extend obliquely across from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis and the linea ilio-pectinea. In the median line, it interlaces with the apo- neurosis of the opposite muscle, forming the linea alba, and extends from the ensi- form cartilage to the symphysis pubis. That portion of the aponeurosis which • extends between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the ps pubis, is a broad band, folded inwards, and continuous below with the fascia lata; it is called Poup art's ligament. The portion which is reflected from Poupart's ligament into the pectineal line is called Gimbernaf s ligament* From the point of attachment of the latter to the pectineal line, a few fibres pass upwards and inwards, behind the inner pillar of the ring, to the linea alba. They diverge as they ascend, and form a thin, triangular, fibrous band, which is called the triangular ligament. In the aponeurosis of the External oblique, immediately above the crest of the os pubis, is a triangular ppening, the external abdominal ring, formed by a sepa- ration of the fibres of the aponeurosis in this situation: it serves for the trans- mission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. This opening is directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded, below, by the crest of the os pubis ; above, by some curved fibres, which pass across the aponeurosis at the upper angle of the ring, so as to increase its strength ; and, on either side, by the margins of the aponeurosis, which are called the pillars of the ring. Of these, the external, which is, at the same time, inferior, from the obliquity of its direction, is inserted into the spine of the os pubis. The internal, or superior pillar is attached to the front of the pubes and symphysis pubis, and interlaces with the corresponding fibres of the opposite muscle, the fibres of the right muscle being superficial. To the margins of the pillars of the external abdominal ring is attached an exceedingly thin and delicate fascia, which is prolonged down over the outer surface of the cord and testis. This has received the name of inter- columnar fascia, from its attachment to the pillars of the ring. It is also called the external spermatic fascia, from being the most external of the fasciae which cover the spermatic cord. Belatio7is. By its external surface, with the superficial fascia, superficial epi- gastric and circumflex iliac vessels, and some cutaneous nerves. By its internal * All these parts will be found more particularly described below, with the Surgical A.natomy of Hernia.