THE STOMACH. 623 The ascending rneso-colon is the fold which connects the back part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and the descending meso- colon retains the descending colon in connection with the posterior abdominal wall: more frequently, the peritoneum merely covers the anterior surface and sides of these two portions of the intestine. The transverse meso-colon is a broad fold, which connects the transverse colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is formed by the two ascending layers of the great omentum, which, after separating to surround the transverse colon join behind it, and are continued backwards to the spine, where they diverge in front of the duodenum, as already mentioned. This fold contains between its layers the vessels which supply the transverse colon. The sigmoid meso-colon is the fold of peritoneum which retains the sigmoid flexure in connection with the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum is the narrow fold which connects the upper part of the rectum with the front of the sacrum- It contains the hsemorrhoidal vessels. The appendices epiploic^ are small pouches of the peritoneum filled with fat, and situated along the colon and upper part of the rectum. They are chiefly appended to the transverse colon. The Stomach. The Stomach is the principal organ of digestion. It is the most dilated part of the alimentary canal, serving for the solution and reduction of the food, which constitutes the process of chymification. It is situated in the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and part of the right hyprochondriac regions. Its form is irregularly conical, curved upon itself, and presenting a rounded base, turned to the left side. It is placed immediately behind the anterior wall of the abdomen, above the transverse colon, below the liver and the Diaphragm. Its size varies considerably in different subjects, and also according to its state of distension. When mode- rately full, its transverse diameter is about twelve inches, its vertical diameter about four. Its weight, according to Clcndenning, is about four ounces and a half. It presents for examination two extremities, two orifices, two borders, and two surfaces. Its left extremity is called the greater, or splenic end. This is the largest part of the stomach, and extends two or three inches to the left of the point of entrance of the oesophagus. This expanded part is called the great cul-de-sac, or fundus. It lies behind the lower ribs, in contact with the spleen, to which it is connected by the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser, or pyloric end, is much smaller than the fundus, and situated on a plane anterior and inferior to it. It lies in contact with the wall of the abdomen, the under surface of the liver, and the neck of the gall-bladder. The oesophageal or cardiac orifice communicates with the oesophagus : it is the highest part of the stomach, and somewhat funnel-shaped. The pyloric orifice communicates with the duodenum, the aperture being guarded by a kind of valve—the pylorus. The lesser curvature extends between the oesophageal and pyloric orifices, along the upper border of the organ, and is connected to the under surface of the liver by the lesser omentum. The greater curvature extends between the same two points, along the lower border, and gives attachment to the great omentum. The surfaces of the organ are limited by these two curvatures. The anterior surface is directed upwards and forwards, and is in relation with the Diaphragm, the under surface of the left lobe of the liver, and with the abdominal parietes, in the epigastric region. The posterior surface is directed downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the pancreas and great vessels of the abdomen, the crura of the Diaphragm, and the solar plexus.