26 THE SKELETON. The Frontal Bone. This bone, which resembles a cockle-shell in form, consists of two portions a vertical or frontal portion, situated at the anterior part of the cranium, forming the forehead ; and a horizontal or orbito-nasal portion, which enters into the formation of the roof of the orbits and nose. Vertical Portion. External Surface (fig. 27). In the median line, traversing the bone from the upper to the lower part, is occasionally seen a slightly elevated ridge, and in young subjects a suture, which represents the line of union of the two late- ral halves of which the bone consists at an early period of life : in the adult this suture is usually obliterated, and the bone forms one piece : traces of the obliterated suture are, however, generally perceptible at the lower part. On either side of this ridge, a little below the centre of the bone, is a rounded eminence, the frontal emi- nence. These eminences vary in size in different individuals, and are occasionally unsymmetrical in the same subject. They are especially prominent in cases of well- 27.—Frontal Bone. Outer Surface. marked cerebral development. The whole surface of the bone above this part is smooth, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis muscle. Below the frontal eminence, and separated from it by a slight groove, is the superciliary ridge, broad internally where it is continuous with the nasal eminence, but less distinct as it arches outwards. These ridges are caused by the projection outwards of the fron- tal sinuses,* and give attachment to the Orbicularis palpebrarum and Corrugator, supercilii. Beneath the superciliary ridge is the supra-orbital arch, a curved and * Some confusion is occasioned to students commencing the study of anatomy, by the name 1 sinuses' having been given to two perfectly different kinds of spaces connected with the skull. It may he as well, therefore, to state here, at the outset, that the ' sinuses' on the interior of the cranium, marked by grooves on the inner surface of the bones, are venous channels along which the blood runs in its passage back from the brain, while the ' sinuses' on the outside of the cranium (the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoid, and maxillary) are hollow spaces in the bones themselves, which communicate with the nostrils, and contain air.