OF THE TARSUS. 199 respectively, and the anterior fibres also limit abduction. The posterior portion of the external lateral ligament assists the middle portion in resisting the dis- placement of the foot backwards, and deepens the cavity for the reception of the astragalus. The anterior fasciculus is a security against the displacement of the foot forwards, and limits extension of the joint. The movements of abduction and adduction of the foot, together with the minute changes in form by which it is applied to the ground or takes hold of an object in climbing, &c, are effected in the tarsal joints ; the one which enjoys the greatest amount of motion being that between the astragalus and os calcis behind, and the scaphoid and cuboid in front. This is often called the transverse tarsal joint, and it, with the subordinate joints of the tarsus, can replace the ankle-joint in a great measure when the latter has become ankylosed. V. Articulations of the Tarsus. These articulations may be subdivided into three sets:—1. The articulations of the first row of tarsal bones. 2. The articulations of the second row of tarsal bones. 3. The articulations of the two rows with each other. 1. Articulations of the First Row of Tarsal Bones. The articulations between the astragalus and os calcis are two in number— anterior and posterior. They are arthrodial joints. The bones are connected together by three ligaments :— External Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Interosseous. The External Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (fig. 144) is a short strong fasci- culus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, immediately beneath its external malleolar facet, to the outer edge of the os calcis. It is placed in front of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with the fibres of which it is parallel. The Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (fig. 143) connects the posterior extremity of the astragalus wTith the upper contiguous surface of the os calcis; it is a short narrow band, the fibres of which are directed obliquely backwards and inwards. 1 The Interosseous Ligament forms the chief bond of union between the bones. It consists of numerous vertical and oblique fibres, attached by one extremity to the groove between the articulating surfaces of the astragalus ; by the other, to a corresponding depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. It is very thick and strong, being at least an inch in breadth from side to side, and serves to unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 146) are two in number : one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint. The latter synovial membrane is continued forwards between the contiguous surfaces of the astragalus and scaphoid bones. 2. Articulations of the Second Row of Tarsal Bones. The articulations between the scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform are effected by the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments are small bands of parallel fibres, which pass from each bone to the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The Plantar Ligaments have the same arrangement on the plantar surface. The Interosseous Ligaments are four in number. They consist of strong trans-