DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. cxxiii The termination of each cardinal vein above, in the sinus of Cuvier, or superior cava, also persists. The central atrophied portion of the cardinal veins is replaced by a vein on either side, called posterior vertebral, which receive the intercostal and lumbar veins, and are soon united by an oblique anastomosing branch. The right vertebral vein, together with the persistent termination of the right cardinal vein, forms the great azygos vein. The distal portion of the left vertebral vein with the oblique anas- tomosing branch, forms the small azygos; and the upper part of the left vertebral, with the persistent termination of the left cardinal, forms the left superior intercostal vein. The 'foetal circulation' is spoken of at p. 663. Development of the alimentary canal. The development of the intestinal cavity is, as shown above, p. cxi., one of the earliest phenomena of embryonic life. This original intestine is closed at either end, and is at first in free communication with the umbilical vesicle (Fig. LIV., 3). It is divided into three parts: the anterior or cephalic portion of the primi- tive intestine, the middle, and the posterior or pelvic. From the first is Fig. LXI.—Diagram of the formation of the main systemic veins. A, Heart and venous system at the period when there are two venae cava? superiores, posterior view. 1, Left superior cava. 2, Right superior cava. 3, Inferior cava. 4, Left inferior cardinal. 5, Right inferior cardinal. 6, Right jugular. 7, Anastomosing branch between the jugulars (left innominate). 8, Subclavian. 9, Internal jugular. 10, External jugular. 11, Middle obliterated portion of the posterior cardinal veins. 12, Newly formed posterior vertebral veins. 13, Anastomosis between the two vertebrals—trunk of small azygos. 14, Iliac veins, proceeding from anastomosis between the inferior cava and posterior cardinals. 15, Crural. 16, Hypogastric—originally the distal ends of the cardinals. B, Heart and permanent veins, posterior view, i, Obliterated left superior cava. 6, Right innominate. 7, Left innominate. 8, Subclavian. io; Jugular. 13, Trunk of the small azygos. 17, Coronary sinus receiving the coronary vein. 18, Superior intercostal. 19, Superior small azygos. 20, Inferior small azygos." 1 B II 1 P~'° 20\ formed the pharynx and oesophagus; from the second, the stomach, small intestine and large intestine, as far as the upper part of the rectum; from the third, the middle third of the rectum. The buccal cavity on the one hand, and the lower portion of the rectum on the other, are separate pro- ductions from the external layer of the blastodermic membrane, and do