DEVELOPMENT OF VESSELS. cxxi Next in succession, other pairs of arches are formed behind the first * (Fig. LX.). The total number is five, but the whole five pairs do not exist together, for the first two have disappeared before the others are formed. These two have no representatives in the permanent structures. The third pair gives origin to the carotids, the fourth pair forms the innominata and subclavian on the right, the arch of the aorta and subcla- vian on the left. The fifth forms on the left side the pulmonary artery, the ductus arteriosus and the descending portion of the thoracic aorta. Its right branch disappears. The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta^ and the root of the pulmonary artery, are at first blended together in the common dilatation (aortic sinus), which has been above spoken of as connected with the ventricular end of the rudimentary heart (Fig. LIX. a, i ). The septum which divides this common artery into two begins to appear very early, even before the interventricular septum. The formation of the permanent vessels is shown by the following diagram :— Fig. LX.—Diagram of the formation of the aortic arches and the large arteries. I. II. III. IV. V., First, second, third, fourth and fifth aortic arches. A, Common trunk from which the first pair spring: the place where the succeeding pairs are formed is indicated by dotted lines. B, Common trunk, with four arches and a trace of the fifth. C, Common trunk, with the three last pairs, the first two having been obliterated. D, The persistent arteries, those which have disappeared being indicated by dotted lines. I, Common arterial trunk. 5, Thoracic aorta. 3, Right branch of the common trunk, which is only temporary. 4, Left branch, permanent. 5, Axillary artery. 6, Vertebral. 7, 8, Subclavian. 9, Common carotid. 10, External; and 11, Internal carotid. 12, Aorta. 13, Pulmonary artery. 14, 15, Right and left pulmonary arteries. The descending aorta appears to be the remnant of the artery formed by the union of the two primitive aortse. The omphalomesenteric arteries, which spring from these latter, all disappear except one, which remains as the superior mesenteric artery. The umbilical arteries are at first the terminations of the two principal aortee, but when these vessels are united into one, the umbilical arteries appear as branches, and the aorta itself ends in a caudal prolongation, which afterwards becomes the middle sacral. The common and internal iliac arteries are the only permanent remains of the umbilical arteries (see p. 400). Veins.—The primitive venous circulation has been described above, the two omphalomesenteric veins opening by a common trunk into the lower end of the tube which represents the heart. The next state of the venous circulation is, that at about four wTeeks there is found a single vein lying behind the intestinal cavity (not in front of it, as the temporary omphalomesenteric veins do), and receiving the trunk vein from the intestine (mesenteric). Two umbilical veins are early formed, and open * The position of the first four of these aortic arches is behind the corresponding pharyn- geal arches, and that of the fifth behind the fourth pharyngeal cleft.