GENERAL ANATOMY. exvi part (Nachhirn, after-brain) forms the medulla oblongata, with the resti- form bodies and auditory nerves."* When the medullary groove is closed, the foetal spinal marrow at first occupies the whole of the canal so formed. It presents at first a large central canal, which gradually contracts, and in after life is no longer per- ceptible to the eye, though it is still visible on microscopic sections (v. p. lxxiii). After the fourth month the spinal column begins to grow in length more rapidly than the medulla, so that the latter no longer occupies the whole canal. The ganglia and anterior roots of the nerves are perceptible at the fourth week, the posterior roots at the sixth. The cord is com- posed at first entirely of uniform-looking cells, which soon separate into two layers, the inner of which forms the epithelium of the central canal, while the outer forms the central grey substance of the cord. The white columns are formed later; their rudiments can be detected about the fourth week. The central canal of the spinal cord is at first unclosed Fig. LVIL—Section of the medulla in the cervical region, at six weeks, magnified 50 dia- meters. 1, Central canal. 2, Its epithelium. 3, , nterior grey matter. 4, Posterior grey matter. 5, Anterior commissure. 6, Posterior portion of the canal, closed by the epithelium only. 7, Anterior column. 8, Lateral column. 9, Posterior column. 10, Anterior roots, 11, Posterior roots. 6 age of nine weeks the behind, except by the epithelial layer, but at the medullary substance is united here also. The ganglia appear to be developed from the protovertebral discs, and it is possible that the pos- terior roots also are ; the anterior roots proceed from the medulla itself. The development of the nerves has not yet been followed. The sym- * The above forms a short abstract of the facts hitherto observed relative to the develop- ment of the brain. But a very interesting series of lectures recently delivered by Mr. Calen- der at the College of Surgeons gives a different account of the subject 111 some important particulars. Thus Mr. Callender lays very great stress on the pineal and pituitary bodies^ in the course of the development of the brain, classing them as the great centres around which the organs are grouped, and bv which their position is determined. The pituitary body is anchored, as it were, at the base of the brain, just in front of the spot where the notochord terminates anteriorly, while the pineal body is anchored originally at the upper part of the future brain, near the bend of the head (about No. 9, Fig. LVL). The two are connected together by a tract of tissue, and the pineal centre gets covered in by the 'mantles or em- bryonal hemispheres, while the pituitary centre retains nearly its relative position. Another important difference in Mr. Calender's 'from the previous accounts is that he describes the permanent fissures in the lower part of the brain as appearing much earlier than has been previously believed (as early as ten to twelve weeks), and says that the obliteration of these fissures is apparent onlv, and due to their being covered in and concealed by the tissue which is growing up to form the convoluted surface of the upper portion of the hemispheres but that they are really permanent, and that their identity with the fissures in the base of the adult brain can be verified. For many interesting details as to the growth of various parts of the brain we must refer to the published lectures in Brit. Med. Journ., June 1874.