TESTES. 713 consisting of a plexus of blood-vessels, held together by a delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, sending otf numerous processes between the lobules, which are supported by the fibrous prolongations from the mediastinum testis. Structure. The glandular structure of the testis consists of numerous lobules (lobuli testis). Their number, in a single testis, is estimated by Berres at 250, and by Krause at 400. They differ in size according to their position, those in the middle of the gland being larger and louger. The lobules are conical in shape, the base being directed towards the circumference of the organ, the apex towards the mediastinum. Each lobule is contained in one of the intervals between the fibrous cords and vascular processes, which extend between the mediastinum testis and the tunica albuginea, and consists of from one to three, or more, minute convoluted tubes, the tubuli seminiferi. The tubes may be separately unravelled, by careful dissection under water, and may be seen to com- mence either by free cascal ends, or by anastomotic loops. The total number of tubes is considered by Munro to be about 300, and the length of each about sixteen feet; by Lauth, their number is estimated at 840, and their average length two feet and a quarter. Their diameter varies from gly0th to tI q th of an inch. The tubuli are pale in colour in early life, but, in old age, they acquire a deep yellow tinge, from containing much fatty matter. They consist of a base- ment membrane, lined by epithelium, consisting of nucleated glandular cor- puscles, and are enclosed in a delicate plexus of capillary vessels. In the apices of the lobules, the tubuli become less convoluted, assume a nearly straight course, and unite together to form from twenty to thirty larger ducts, of about ^-Q-tli of an inch in diameter, and these, from their straight course, are called vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and pass upwards and backwards, forming, in their ascent, a close network of anastomosing tubes, with exceedingly thin parietes ; this constitutes the rete testis. At the upper end of the mediastinum, the vessels of the rete testis terminate in from twelve to fifteen or twenty ducts, the vasa efferentia : they perforate the tunica albuginea, and carry the seminal fluid from the testis to the epididymis. Their course is at first straight; they then become enlarged, and exceedingly convoluted, and form a series of coni- cal masses, the coni vasculosis which, together, constitute the globus major of the epididymis. Each cone consists of a single convoluted duct, from six to eight inches in length, the diameter of which gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis. Opposite the bases of the cones, the efferent vessels open at narrow intervals into a single duct, which constitutes, by its complex convolu- tions, the body and globus minor of the epididymis. When the convolutions of this tube are unravelled, it measures upwards of twenty feet in length, and increases in breadth and thickness as it approaches the vas deferens. The con- volutions are held together by fine areolar tissue, and by bands of fibrous tissue. A long narrow tube, the vasculum aberrans of Haller, is occasionally found con- nected with the lower part of the canal of tlie epididymis, or with the commence-