XCV SEBACEOUS AND SWEAT GLANDS. fibrils: this is the part through which material is supplied for the pro- duction and constant growth of the hair. The root of the hair rests upon this conical-shaped eminence, and is continuous with the cuticular lining of the follicle at this part. It consists of nucleated cells, similar in every respect to those which mother situations form the epidermis. These cells gradually enlarge as they are pushed upwards into the soft bulb, and some of them contain pigment-granules, which either exist in separate cells, or are separate, or aggregated round the nucleus; it is these granules which give rise to the colour of the hair. It occasionally happens that these pigment-granules completely fill the cells in the centre of the bulb, which gives rise to the dark tract of pigment often found, of greater or less length, in the axis of the hair. The shaft of the hair consists of a central part or medulla, the fibrous part of the hair, and the cortex externally. The medulla occupies the centre of the shaft, and ceases towards the point of the hair. It is usually wanting in the fine hairs covering the surface of the body, and commonly in those of the head. It is more opaque and deeper coloured than the fibrous part, and consists of cells containing pigment or fat-granules. The fibrous portion of the hair constitutes the chief part of the stem; its cells are elongated, and unite to form flattened fusiform fibres. These also contain pigment-granules, which assume a linear arrangement. The cells which form the cortex of the hair consist of a single layer which surrounds those of the fibrous part; they are converted into thin flat scales, having an imbricated arrangement. The Sebaceous Glands are small, sacculated, glandular organs, lodged in the substance of the corium, or subdermoid tissue. They are found in most parts of the skin, but are most abundant in the scalp and face; they are also very numerous around the apertures of the anus, nose, mouth, and external ear; but are wanting in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. Each gland consists of a single duct, more or less capacious, which terminates in a lobulated pouch-like extremity. The basement membrane forming the wall of the sac, as well as the duct, is lined by epithelium, which is filled with particles of sebaceous matter; and this becoming detached into the cavity of the sac, as its growth is renewed, constitutes the secretion. The sacculi connected with each duct vary in number from two to five, or even twenty. The orifices of the ducts open I most frequently into the hair-follicles, but occasionally upon the general surface. On the nose and face, the glands are of large size, distinctly I lobulated, and often become much enlarged from the accumulation of pent-up secretion. The largest sebaceous glands are those found in the eyelids, the Meibomian glands. The Sudoriferous or Sweat Glands are the organs by which a large portion of the aqueous and gaseous materials are excreted by the skin. They are found in almost every part of the skin, and are situated in small pits in the deep parts of the corium, or in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. They are small, lobular, reddish bodies, consisting of one or more convoluted tubuli, from which the efferent duct proceeds upwards through the corium and cuticle, and opens upon the surface by a slightly enlarged orifice. The efferent duct, as it passes through the corium, pursues, for a short distance, a spiral