THE SKELETON. 136 articular facets, separated by a broad shallow groove, which is directed obliquely forwards and outwards, and is rough for the attachment of the interosseous liga- ment connecting the astragalus and os calcis. Of the two articular surfaces, the external is the larger, and situated on the body of the bone : it is of an oblong form, wider behind than in front, and convex from before backwards. The internal articular surface is supported on a projecting process of bone, called the lesser 'process of the calcaneum (sustentaculum tali) ; it is also oblong, concave longitudinally, and sometimes subdivided into two parts, which differ in size and shape. More anteriorly is seen the upper surface of the greater process, marked by a rough depression for the attachment of numerous ligaments, and the origin of the Extensor brevis digitorum muscle. The inferior surface is narrow, rough, uneven, wider behind than in front, and convex from side to side ; it is bounded posteriorly by two tubercles, separated by a rough depression; the external, small, prominent, and rounded, gives attachment to part of the Abductor minimi digiti; the internal, broader and larger, for the support of the heel, gives attachment, by its prominent inner margin, to the Abductor pollicis, and in front to the Flexor brevis digitorum muscles ; the depression between the tubercles attaches the Abductor minimi digiti and plantar fascia. The rough surface in front of the tubercles gives attach- ment to the long plantar ligament, and to the outer head of the Flexor accessorius muscle ; and to a prominent tubercle nearer the anterior part of the bone, as well as to a transverse groove in front of it, is attached the short plantar ligament. The external surface is broad, flat, and almost subcutaneous; it presents near its centre a tubercle, for the attachment of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. Above the tubercle is a broad smooth surface, giving attach- ment, at its upper and anterior part, to the external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; and in front of the tubercle a narrow surface marked by two oblique grooves, separated by an elevated ridge : the superior groove transmits the tendon of the Peroneus brevis ; the inferior, the tendon of the Peroneus longus ; the intervening ridge gives attachment to a prolongation from the external annular ligament. The internal surface presents a deep concavity, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, for the transmission of the plantar vessels and nerves and Flexor tendons into the sole of the foot; it affords attachment to part of the Flexor accessorius muscle. This surface presents an eminence of bone, the lesser process, which projects horizontally inwards from its upper and fore part, and to which a slip of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus is attached. This process is concave above, and supports the anterior articular surface of the astragalus ; below, it is convex, and grooved for the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. Its free margin is rough for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior surface, of a somewhat triangular form, is smooth, concavo- convex, and articulates with the cuboid. It is surmounted, on its outer side, by a rough prominence, which forms an important guide to the surgeon in the per- formance of Chopart's amputation. The posterior surface is rough, prominent, convex, and wider below than above. Its lower part is rough, for the attachment of the tendo Achillis, and of the Plantaris muscle; its upper part is smooth, coated with cartilage, and corresponds to a bursa which separates that tendon from the bone. Articulations. With two bones : the astragalus and cuboid. Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Tibialis posticus, the tendo Achillis, Plan- j taris, Abductor pollicis, Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor brevis digitorum, Flexor accessorius, and Extensor brevis digitorum. The Cuboid. The Cuboid bone is placed on the outer side of the foot, in front of the os calcis, and behind the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It' is of a pyramidal shape, its base being directed upwards and inwards, its apex downwards and out- wards. It may be distinguished from the other tarsal bones by the existence of