599 SCALA MEDIA. media, Ganalis membranacea, or Ganalis cocJilece, and this is the nomenclature which will be used here. Others, however, apply the name Ganalis cochlea? only to the canal lying between the membrane of Reissner and the membrana tectoria, which contains no object for description, while the space lying between the membrana tectoria and membrana basilaris is described by itself as a fourth canal—the 317.—Floor of Scala Media, showing the Organ of Corti, &c,. ductus cochlearis or ductus auditorius.* The latter is the space in which the organ of Corti f is contained. This organ (fig. 317) is situated upon the membrana basilaris, and appears at first sight as a papilla, winding spirally with the turns of this membrane throughout the whole length of the cochlea, from which circumstance it has been designated the papilla spiralis. More accurately viewed, it is seen to be composed of a series of arches roofing over the zona arcuata, estimated at over 3,000 in number. The base of these arches is said to be of uniform length in the whole of the canal. The inner limb of the arch is formed by a fibre (internal fibres or rods of Corti) somewhat swollen at either extremity. In connection with the lower extremity is a nuclear body. The space between the internal rod and the grooved margin of the sulcus spiralis is occupied by cylindrical epithelium. The external limb of the arch is formed by a similar series of fibres (external fibres or rods of Corti), said to be more numerous than the internal, and the swollen upper extremities of the two rods are articulated together, the inner overlapping the outer ; the crown of the arch approaches, but does not touch, the membrana tectoria. Lying against the external rods are epithelial cells of various forms. Those described by Corti, and called after him cells of Gorti, are provided with hairs or cilia. There are several rows of these, alternating with which are other epithelial cells terminating in a fine extremity above and below: these are called the cells of Deiters; and beyond these again are the j ordinary epithelial cells of the part, gradually diminishing in size. Kolliker describes a reticular lamina as covering over the cells of Corti and Deiters. This is presumed to extend from the arches of Corti to the bony wall of the cochlea, fixing the arches in their places, and is perforated by the cilia of the cells of Corti, but though its existence is undoubted, its external attachment is as yet uncertain. The exact termination of the nerves in the organ of Corti is not as yet determined, but there seems no doubt that this organ is to be regarded as the ' terminal appa- ratus of hearing,' as Henle names it.% * In reading the older descriptions of the organ of hearing, the student must bear in mind that the membranes bounding the ductus auditorius, together with the organ contained between them, were described together as the 'lamina spiralis membranacea/ while the membrane of Reissner was not recognised, the parts being, in fact, as shown in the second turn of the cochlea on the right hand of fig, 316. t Corti's original paper is in the Zeitschrift f. Wissen. Zool. iii. 109. X For further details the reader is referred to Kolliker's Geivcbelehre, 5th ed.; Ilenle's Systematische Anatomie, or Quain's Anatomy, edited by Sharpey, Thomson, and Cleland, 7th ed. 1867.