ORGANS OF SENSE. 5§4 The subcutaneous areolar tissue is very lax and delicate, seldom contains any fat and is extremely liable to serons infiltration. The fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, where they cover the palpebras, are thin, pale in colour, and possess an involuntary action. The tarsal cartilages are two thin, elongated plates of Sbro-cartilage, about an inch in length. They are placed one in each lid, contributing to their form and support. The superior, the larger, is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at the centre, and becoming gradually narrowed at each extremity. Into the upper border of this cartilage the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebree is attached. The inferior tarsal cartilage, the smaller, is thinner, and of an elliptical form. The free, or ciliary margin of the cartilages is thick, and presents a perfectly straight edge. The attached, or orbital margin, is connected to the circumference of the orbit by the fibrous membrane of the lids. The outer angle of each carti- lage is attached to the malar bone by the external palpebral or tarsal ligament. The inner angles of the two cartilages terminate at the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, being fixed to the margins of the orbit by the tendo oculi. The fibrous membrane of the lids, or tarsal ligament, is a layer of fibrous membrane, beneath the Orbicularis, attached, externally to the margin of the orbit, and internally to the orbital margin of the lids. It is thick and dense at the outer part of the orbit, but becomes thinner as it approaches the cartilages. This membrane serves to support the eyelids, and retains the tarsal cartilages in their position. 307.—The Meibomian Glands, etc., seen from the Inner Surface of the Eyelids. The Meibomian glands (fig. 307) are situated upon the inner surface of the eyelids, between the tarsal cartilages and conjunctiva, and may be distinctly seen through the mucous membrane on everting the eyelids, presenting the appearance of parallel strings of pearls. They are about thirty in number in the upper car- tilage, and somewhat fewer in the lower. They are embedded in grooves in the inner surface of the cartilages, and correspond in length with the breadth of each cartilage ; they are, consequently, longer in the upper than in the lower eyelid. Their ducts open on the free margin of the lids by minute foramina, which correspond in number to the follicles. These glands are a variety of the cutaneous sebaceous glands, each consisting of a single straight tube or follicle, having a csecal termination, into which open a number of small secondary follicles. The tubes consist of basement membrane, covered by a layer of scaly epithelium ; the cells are charged with sebaceous matter, which constitutes the secretion. The peculiar parallel arrangement of these glands side by side, forms a smooth layer,