499 AUDITORY NERVE. 271.—Course of the Fibres in the Optic Commissure. The commissure or chiasma, somewhat quadrilateral in form, rests upon the optic groove of the sphenoid bone, being bounded, in front, by the lamina cinerea ; behind, by the tuber cinereum ; on either side by the anterior perforated space. Within the commissure, the optic nerves of the two sides undergo a partial decussation. The fibres which form the inner margin of each, tract are continued across from one to the other side of the brain, and have no connection with the optic nerves. These may be regarded as com- missural fibres (inter-cerebral) between the thalami of opposite sides. Some fibres are continued across the anterior border of the chiasma, and connect the optic nerves of the two sides, having no relation with They may be regarded as commissural fibres between the two The onter fibres of each tract are continued into the The central fibres of each tract are continued into qfopposite side the optic tracts retinas (inter-retina^ fibres). optic nerve of the samelslde. the optic nerve of the opposite side, decussating in the commissure with similar fibres of the opposite tract.* The optic nerves arise from the fore part of the commissure, and, diverging from one another, become rounded in form and firm in texture, and are enclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. As each nerve passes through the correspond- ing optic foramen, it receives a sheath from the dura mater; and as it enters the orbit, this sheath subdivides into two layers, one of which becomes continuous with tlm^periosteum of the orbit; the other forms a sheath for the nerve, and sur- r^nd;sit^s_far as the .sclerotic. The nerve passes through the cavity of the orbit, pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats at the back part of the eyeball, a little to the nasal side of its centre, and expands into the retina. A small artery, the arteria centralis retinas, perforates the optic nerve a little behind the globe, and runs along its interior in a tubular canal of fibrous tissue. It supplies the inner surface of the retina, and is accompanied by corresponding veins. Auditory Nerve. The Auditory Nerve (portio mollis of the seventh pair) is the special nerve of the sense of hearing, being distributed exclusively to the internal ear. The portio dura of the seventh pair, or facial nerve, is the motor nerve of the muscles of the face. It will be described with the cranial motor nerves. The auditory nerve arises by numerous white striae, the linece transversce, which emerge from the posterior median fissure in the anterior wall, or floor, of the fourth ventricle. It is also connected with the grey matter of the mednlla, corresponding to the locus caeruleus. According to Foville, the roots of this nerve are connected, on the nnder surface of the middle peduncle, with the grey substance of the cere- bellum, with the flocculus, and with the grey matter at the borders of the calamus scriptorius. The nerve winds round the restiform body, from which it receives fibres, and passes forwards across the posterior border of the crus cerebelli, in company with the facial nerve, from which it is partially separated by a small artery. It then enters the meatus auditorius, in company with the facial nerve, and, at the bottom of the meatus, divides into two branches, cochlear and vesti- bular, which are distributed, the former to the cochlea, the latter to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The auditory nerve is very soft in texture (hence the name, portio mollis), destitute of neurilemma, and, within the meatus, receives one or two filaments from the facial. The other nerves of special sense must be described with the glossopharyngeal and fifth nerves, of which they are parts. A specimen of congenital absence of the optic commissure is to be found in the Museum of the Westminster Hospital. K K 2