HEART—LEFT VENTRICLE. 6Gi the auricles than in the ventricles, and thickest in the left auricle. It is thin on the musculi pectinati, and on the columnse earneEO ; but thicker on the smooth part of the auricular and ventricular walls, and on the tips of the musculi papillares. Structure. The heart consists of muscular fibres, and of fibrous rings which serve for their attachment. The fibrous rings surround the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices : they are stronger upon the left than on the right side of the heart. The auriculo- ventricular rings serve for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the auricles and ventricles, and also for the mitral and tricuspid valves; the ring on the left side is closely connected, by its right margin, with the aortic arterial ring. Between these and the right auriculo-ventricular ring, is a fibro-cartilaginous mass ; and in some of the larger animals, as the ox and elephant, a portion of bone. The fibrous rings surrounding the arterial orifices serve for the attachment of the great vessels and semilunar valves. Each ring receives, by its ventricular margin, the attachment of the muscular fibres of the ventricles ; its opposite margin presents three deep semicircular notches, within which the middle coat of the artery (which presents three convex semicircular segments), is firmly fixed; the attachment of the artery to its fibrous ring being strengthened by the thin cellular coat and serous membrane externally, and by the endocardium within. It is opposite the margins of these semicircular notches, in the arterial rings, that the endocardium, by its reduplication, forms the semilunar valves, the fibrous structure of :the ring being continued into each of the segments of the valve at this part. The middle coat of the artery in this situation is thin, and the sides of the vessel dilated to form the sinuses of Valsalva. The muscular structure of the heart consists of bands of fibres, which present an exceedingly intricate interlacement. They are of a deep red colour, and marked with transverse striae. The muscular fibres of the heart admit of a subdivision into two kinds: those of the auricles, and those of the ventricles : which are quite independent of one another. Fibres of the auricles. These are disposed in two layers : a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deep layer proper to each. The superficial fibres are more distinct on the anterior surface of the auricles, across the bases of which they run in a transverse direction, forming a thin, but incomplete, layer. Some of these fibres pass into the septum auricularum. The internal or deep fibres proper to each auricle consist of two sets, looped, and annular fibres.. The looped fibres pass upwards over each auricle) being attached by two extremities to the corresponding auriculo-ventricular rings, in front and behind. The annular fibres surround the whole extent of the appendices auricula?, and are continued upon the walls of the vense cavee and coronary sinus on the right side, and upon the pulmonary veins on the left side, at their connection with the heart. In the appendices, they interlace with the longitudinal fibres. The fibres of the ventricles are arranged in numerous layers, of which Petti- grew,* the most recent and the best authority, describes seven. Other anatomists have regarded them differently, and indeed there must be some uncertainty on the subject, for the layers are not independent of each other, but their fibres are interlaced to a considerable extent. And it has been observed that as Petti- grew's observations were made chiefly on the hearts of the lower animals, they may not apply exactly to man. Yet as this description has been received by the best anatomists, and is supported by a large series of preparations, it seems best to adopt it. The general result of these investigations maybe very briefly stated as follows. In the left ventricle the fibres of the first or most external layer are continuous with those of the seventh or most internal, those of the second with the sixth, and * Phil. Trans. 1864.