241 OF THE BACK. both Trapezii acting together will draw the head directly backwards, or if only one acts, the head is drawn to the corresponding side. The Latissimus Dorsi, when it acts upon the humerus, draws it backwards and downwards, and at the same time rotates it inwards. If the arm is fixed, the muscle may act in various ways upon the trunk; thus, it may raise the lower ribs and assist in forcible inspiration, or if both arms are fixed, the two muscles may assist the abdominal and great Pectoral muscles in drawing the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or walking on crutches. The Levator Anguli Scapulm raises the superior angle of the scapula after it has been depressed by the lower fibres of the Trapezius, whilst the Rhomboid muscles carry the inferior angle backwards and upwards, thus producing a slight rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest. If the shoulder be fixed, the Levator anguli scapulas may incline the neck to the corresponding side. The Rhomboid muscles acting together with the middle and inferior fibres of the Trapezius, will draw the scapula directly backwards towards the spine. Third Later. Serratus Posticus Superior. Serratus Posticus Inferior. o n f Splenius Capitis, bplenius i o 1 • n vi- 1 [ bplenius Colli. Dissection. To bring- into view the third layer of muscles, remove the whole of the second, together with the Latissimus dorsi; by cutting through the Levator anguli scapulae and Rhomboid muscles near their insertion, and reflecting them upwards, to expose the Serratus posticus superior, dividing the Latissimus dorsi in the middle hy a vertical incision carried from its upper to its lower part, and reflecting the two halves of the muscle. The Serratus Posticus Superior is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, situated fit the upper and back part of the thorax. It arises by a thin and broad aponeu- rosis, from the ligamentum nuchas, and from the spinous processes of the last spervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebras. Inclining downwards and out- wards, it becomes muscular, and is inserted, by four fleshy digitations, into the upper borders of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, Rhomboidei, and Serratus magnus. By its deep surface, with the Splenius, upper part of the Erector spinas, Intercostal muscles and ribs. The Serratus Posticus Inferior is situated at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions: it is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, broader than the preceding, and separated from it by a considerable interval. It arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and two or three upper lumbar vertebras, and from the interspinous ligaments. Passing obliquely upwards and outwards, it becomes fleshy, and divides into four flat digitations, which are inserted into the lower borders of the four lower ribs, a little beyond their angles! Relations. By its superficial surface, r with the Latissimus dorsi, with the aponeurosis of which its own aponeurotic origin is inseparably blended. By its deep surface, with the lumbar fascia, the Erector spinas, ribs, and Intercostal muscles. Its upper margin is continuous with the vertebral aponeurosis. The Vertebral Aponeurosis is a thin aponeurotic lamina, extending along the whole length of the back part of the thoracic region, serving to bind down the Erector spinas, and separating it from those muscles which connect the spine to the upper extremity. It consists of longitudinal and transverse fibres blended together, forming a thin lamella, which is attached in the median line to the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebras ; externally, to the angles of the ribs ; and below, to the upper border of the Inferior serratus and tendon of the Latissimus dorsi; above, it passes beneath the Splenius, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. Now detach the Serratus posticus superior from its origin, and turn it outwards, when the Splenius muscle will be brought into view. R