579 THE RETINA. forwards; and, in front, extends nearly as far forwards as the ciliary ligament, where it terminates by a jagged margin, the ora serrata. It is soft, and semi- transparent, in the fresh state ; bat soon becomes clouded, opaque, and of a pinkish tint. Exactly in the centre of the posterior part of the retina, and at a point corresponding to the axis of the eye, in which the sense of vision is most perfect, is a round, elevated, yellowish spot, called, after its discoverer, the yellow spot or limbus luteus, of Sommerring ; having a central depression at its summit, the fovea centralis. The retina in the situation of the fovea centralis is exceedingly thin ; so much so, that the dark colour of the choroid is distinctly seen through it; so that it presents more the appearance of a foramen, and hence the name ' foramen of Sommerring ' at first given to it. It exists only in man, the quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles. Its use is unknown. About yLth of an inch to the inner side of the yellow spot, is the point of entrance of the optic nerve ; the arteria centralis retina? piercing its centre. This is the only part of the surface of the retina from which the power of vision is absent. 305.—The Arteria Centralis Retinae, Yellow Spot, etc., the anterior Half of the Eyeball being removed. (Enlarged.) Structure. The retina is composed of three layers, together with blood-vessels : External or columnar layer (Jacob's membrane). Middle or granular layer. Internal or nervous layer. The blood-vessels do not form a distinct layer; they ramify in the substance of the internal layer. The external, or Jacobs membrane, is exceedingly thin, and can be detached from the external surface of the retina by the handle of the scalpel, in the form of a flocculent film. It is thicker behind than in front, and consists of rod-like bodies of two kinds: 1. Columnar rocls, solid, nearly of uniform size, and arranged perpendicularly to the surface. 2. Bulbous particles, or cones, which are interspersed at regular intervals among the former ; these are conical or flask-shaped, their broad ends resting upon the granular layer, the narrow pointed extremity being turned towards the choroid; they are not solid, like the columnar rods, but consist of an external membrane with fluid contents. By their deep ends, both kinds are joined to the fibres of Muller. The middle or granular layer forms about one-third of the entire thickness of the retina. It consists of two lamina? of rounded or oval nuclear particles, sepa- rated from each other by an intermediate lamina, which is transparent, finely fibril- lated, and contains no blood-vessels. The outermost lamina is the thicker, and its constituent particles are globular. The innermost lamina is the thinner ; its corn- s' r 2