PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION, HIS WORK is intended to furnish the Student and Practitioner with J- an accurate view of the Anatomy of the Human Body, and more especially the application of this Science to Practical Surgery. One of the chief objects of the Author has been, to induce the Student to apply his anatomical knowledge to the more practical points in Surgery, by introducing, in small type, under each subdivision of the work, such observations as show the necessity of an accurate knowledge of the part under examination. Osteology. Much time and care have been devoted to this part of the work, the basis of anatomical knowledge. It contains a concise descrip- tion of the anatomy of the bones, illustrated by numerous accurately- i lettered engravings showing the various markings and processes on each bone. The attachments of each muscle are shown in dotted lines (after the plan recently adopted by Mr. Holden), copied from recent dissections. The articulations of each bone are shown on a new plan; and a method has been adopted, by which the hitherto complicated account of the development of the bones is made more simple. The Articulations. In this section, the various structures forming the joint are described; a classification of the joints is given; and the anatomy of each carefully described : abundantly illustrated by engravings, all of which are taken from, or corrected by, recent dissections. The Muscles and- Fascim. In this section, the muscles are described in groups, as in ordinary anatomical works. A series of illustrations, shovf- ing the lines of incision necessary in the dissection of the muscles in each region, are introduced, and the muscles are shown in fifty-eight engravings. The Surgical Anatomy of the muscles in connection with fractures, of the tendons or muscles divided in operations, is also described and illustrated. The Arteries. The course, relations, and Surgical Anatomy of each artery are described in this section, together with the anatomy of the