Ixviii GENERAL ANATOMY. the smallest fibrils of the cerebrospinal system are, as we have seen, of hardly appreciable thickness ; while, on the other, some of the gelatinous fibres (especially those in the olfactory bnlb) are said to be three or four times as thick as those of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Chemical composition.—The following analysis, by Lassaigne, represents the relative proportion of the different constituents composing the grey and white matter of the brain :— Grey. White. Water 85-2 . 73-0 Albuminous matter . ...... 7*5 . 9-9 Colourless fat . ro 13-9 Red fat 37 0-9 Osmazome and lactates . . . . . . 1*4 . ro Phosphates . r2 . 1.3 ioo*o . IOOO It appears from this analysis, that the cerebral substance consists of albumen, dissolved in water, combined with fatty matters and salts. The fatty matters, according to Fremy, consist of cerebric acid, which is most abundant, cholesterin, oleophosphoric acid, and olein, margarin, and traces of their acids. The same analyst states that the fat contained in the brain is confined almost exclusively to the white substance, and that its colour becomes lost when the fatty matters are removed. According to Yauquelin, the cord contains a larger proportion of fat than the brain ; and, according to L'Heritier, the nerves contain more albumen and more soft fat than the brain. With regard to the constitution of the different portions of the nervous system, the cerebro-spinal axis is composed of the two above-described kinds of nervous structure, intermingled in various proportions, and having in the brain a very intricate arrangement, which can only be fully understood by a careful study of the details of its descriptive anatomy in the sequel. The grey or vesicular nervous matter is found partly on the surface of the brain, forming the convolutions of the cerebrum, which are in the most direct relation to the mental faculties, and. the laminse of the cerebellum, the functions of which are still a matter of dispute. Again, grey matter is found in the interior of the brain, collected into large and distinct masses or ganglionic bodies, such as the corpus striatum, optic thalamus, and corpora qnadrigemina; the functions of which bodies, so far as they have been ascertained, have been found to be connected with some of the main organic endowments of the body, such as voluntary motion, sensation, sight. Finally, grey matter is found intermingled intimately with the white, and without definite arrangement, as in the corpora dentata of the medulla and cerebellum, or the grey matter in the Pons and the floor of the fourth ventricle. Such scattered masses of grey matter are, in many instances at any rate, connected to all appearance with the origin of particular nerves. In other situations their use is as yet unknown. The proper nervous matter, both in the brain and spinal cord, is traversed and supported by a network of fine connective tissue. This has been termed by Yirchow the neuroglia, and is supposed to be the source of one of the forms of tumour described by that author under the name of glioma. The white matter of the brain is divisible into four distinct classes of