FECUNDATION OF OVUM. ciii The germinal spot occupies that part of the periphery of the germinal vesicle which is nearest to the periphery of the yelk. It is opaque, of a yellow colour, and finely granular in structure, measuring from -3 gVo^ t° ^oth. of an inch. The phenomena attending the discharge of the ova from the Graafian vesicles, since they belong as much or more to the ordinary function of the ovary than to the general subject of the growth of the body, are described with the anatomy of the ovaries in the body of the work. The first changes in the ovum which take place upon conception, appear to be as follows :—The spermatozoon penetrates the ovum,* the effect of which is to bring it into contact with the yelk, and with the germinal vesicle contained in the yelk. It seems as if this normally occurs in the Fallopian tube,f and abnormally it may even take place in the peritoneal cavity. The first effect is to produce a cleavage and multiplication of the yelk, which Fig. XLVI.—Four diagrams to show the division of the yelk. The ovum is surrounded by spermatozoa. The clear corpuscles (polar globules of Robio) are seen in the first two. becomes first cleft into two masses, then into four, and so on, until at length a mulberry-like agglomeration of nucleated cells results (Fig. XLVI.). It appears probable that this proliferation is due to some change in the ger- minal vesicle and its nucleolus, but the nature of such change has not been made out. Some observers describe it as consisting simply in the cleavage of the vesicle and nucleolus, others in their disappearance and replacement by a fresh cell, or nucleus, the embryo-cell, around which the yelk gathers. In this view the fertilisation of the yelk is due to the solution of the germinal vesicle under the action of the spermatozoon. There are also found within the vitelline membrane one or more clear globules, called e polar globules ' by Robin, because they lie near one of the poles of segmentation. The nature, origin, and uses of these bodies are not known. They seem to be usually regarded as produced by the liquefaction of the yelk, and as not being essential to the process of fructification. The globules of which the yelk is now composed soon arrange them- selves into the form of a membrane lined with pavement-epithelium. As the yelk-mass softens, fluid accumulates in the interior of this membrane, spreading it out on the internal surface of the vitelline membrane. The latter (external) membrane (Fig. XLVIII.) soon becomes covered with granulations or vegetations, giving it a shaggy appearance, and then takes the name of the e primitive chorion,' whilst the internal membrane is called the c blastodermic membrane or vesicle.' * See Newport, Phil. Trans. 1853, vol. ii. p. 233. This has been since confirmed by other observers on various lower animals, and may be assumed to be generally true. t Many physiologists, as Bischoff and Br. M. Barry, believe that the ovum is fecundated in the ovary, but the reasoning of Dr. Allen Thomson appears very cogent in proving that the usual spot at which the spermatozoon meets with the ovum is in the tube.