DEVELOPMENT OF BONES OF HAND. in fourth metacarpal bones ; the fourth with the os magnum, unciform, and third and fifth metacarpal bones; and the fifth with the unciform and fourth metacarpal. Attachment of Muscles. To the metacarpal bone of the thumb, three : the Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and first Dorsal inter- osseous. To the second metacarpal bone, five : the Flexor carpi radialis, Extensor carpi radialis longior, first and second Dorsal interosseous, and first Palmar inter- osseous. To the third, five : the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Flexor brevis pollicis, Adductor pollicis, and second and third Dorsal interosseous. To the fourth, three : the third and fourth Dorsal and second Palmar interosseous. To the fifth, five : the Extensor carpi ulnaris, Flexor carpi ulnaris, Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti, fourth Dorsal, and third Palmar interosseous. Phalanges. The Phalanges are the bones of the fingers ; they are fourteen in number, three for each finger, and two for the thumb. They are long bones, and present for examination a shaft, and two extremities. The shaft tapers from above downwards, is convex posteriorly, concave in front from above downwards, flat from side to side, and marked laterally by rough ridges, which give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of the Flexor tendons. The metacarpal extremity or base, in the first row, presents an oval concave articular surface, broader from side to side than from before backwards; and the same extremity in the other two rows, a double con- cavity separated by a longitudinal median ridge, extending from before backwards. The digital extremities are smaller than the others, and terminate, in the first and second row, in two small lateral condyles, separated by a slight groove ; the arti- cular surface being prolonged farther forwards on the palmar than on the dorsal surface, especially in the first row. The Ungual phalanges are convex on their dorsal, flat on their palmar surfaces; they are recognised by their small size, and by a roughened elevated surface of a horseshoe form on the palmar aspect of their ungual extremity, which serves to support the sensitive pulp of the finger. Articulations. The first row with the metacarpal bones, and the second row of phalanges; the second row with the first and third; the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles. To the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, four muscles : the Extensor primi internodii pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Abductor pollicis, Adductor pollicis. To the second phalanx, two : the Flexor longus pollicis, and the Extensor secundi internodii. To the base of the first phalanx of the index finger, the first Dorsal and the first Palmar interosseous ; to that of the middle finger, the second and third Dorsal interosseous ; to that of the ring-finger, the fourth Dorsal and the second Palmar interosseous ; and to that of the little finger, the third Palmar interosseous, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and Abductor minimi digiti. To the second phalanges, the Flexor sublimis digitorum, Extensor communis digitorum ; and, in addition, the Extensor inclicis to the index finger, the Extensor minimi digiti to the little finger. To the third phalanges, the Flexor profundus digitorum and Extensor communis digitorum. Development of the Bones of the Hand. The Carpal bones are each developed by a single centre. At birth, they are all cartilaginous. Ossification proceeds in the following order (fig. 96) : in the os magnum and unciform an ossific point appears during the first year, the former preceding the latter ; in the cuneiform, at the third year; in the trapezium and semilunar, at the fifth year, the former preceding the latter ; in the scaphoid, at the sixth year; in the trapezoid, during the eighth, year ; and in the pisiform, about the twelfth year. The Metacarpal bones are each developed by two centres: one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, for the four inner metacarpal bones ; one for the shaft,