Of the Arteries. THE Arteries are cylindrical tubular vessels, which serve to convey blood from both ventricles of the heart to every part of the body. These vessels were named arteries (coyp, air; rj/joetv, to contain), from the belief entertained by the ancients that they contained air. To Galen is due the honour of refuting this opinion ; he showed that these vessels, though for the most part empty after death, contain blood in the living body. The pulmonary artery, which arises from the right ventricle of the heart, carries venous blood directly into the lungs, whence it is returned by the pulmonary veins into the left auricle. This constitutes the lesser or pulmonic circulation. The great artery which arises from the left ventricle, the aorta, conveys arterial blood to the body generally; whence it is brought back to the right side of the heart by means of the veins. This constitutes the greater or systemic circulation. The distribution of the systemic arteries is like a highly ramified tree, the common trunk of which, formed by the aorta, commences at the left ventricle of the heart, the smallest ramifications corresponding to the circumference of the body and the contained organs. The arteries are found in nearly every part of the body, with the exception of the hairs, nails, epidermis, cartilages, and cornea ; and the larger trunks usually occupy the most protected situations, running, in the limbs, along the flexor side, where they are less exposed to injury. There is considerable variation in the mode of division of the arteries: occasionally a short trunk subdivides into several branches at the same point, as we observe 1 in the cceliac and thyroid axes ; or the vessel may give off several branches in suc- cession, and still continue as the main trunk, as is seen in the arteries of the limbs ; but the usual division is dichotomous, as, for instance, the aorta dividing into the two common iliacs ; and the common carotid, into the external and internal. The branches of arteries arise at very variable angles; some, as the superior intercostal arteries from the aorta, arise at an obtuse angle ; others, as the lumbar arteries, at a right angle ; or, as the spermatic, at an acute angle. An artery from which a branch is given off, is smaller in size, but retains a uniform diameter until a second branch is derived from it. A branch of an artery is smaller than the trunk from which it arises; but if an artery divides into two branches, the com- bined area of the two vessels is, in nearly every instance, somewhat greater than that of the trunk; and the combined area of all the arterial branches greatly exceeds the area of the aorta ; so that the arteries collectively may be regarded as a cone, the apex of which corresponds to the aorta; the base to the capillary system. The arteries, in their distribution, communicate freely with one another, forming what is called an anastomosis (aia, between; aTo\xa, mouth), or inosculation; and this communication is very free between the large, as well as between the smaller branches. The anastomoses between trunks of equal size is found where great freedom and activity of the circulation is requisite, as in the brain ; here the two vertebral arteries unite to form the basilar, and the two internal carotid arteries are connected by a short communicating trunk ; it is also found in the abdomen, the intestinal arteries having very free anastomoses between their larger branches. In the limbs, the anastomoses are most frequent and of largest size around the joints ; the branches of an artery above freely inosculating with branches from the vessels below ; these anastomoses are of considerable interest to the surgeon,