PATELLA. 127 an important office in strengthening a part mitted from above, and serves especially liable to fracture. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner surface of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction to the articular surface, the cancelli being strongest and having a more accurately perpendicular course above the condyles. Articulations. With three bones : the os innominatum, tibia, and patella. Development (fig. 106). The 106.—Plan of the Development of the Femur. By Five Centres. I Appears at ^yV J&tfiaft about mK yC^i Appears at end oflfyf 1 Joins Shaft adout t&'?y7 AppearsJ3-14* y£ ^3 Joins Shaft about 18^ yV femur is developed by jive centres : one for the shaft, one for each ex- tremity, and one for each trochanter. Of all the long bones, except the clavicle, it is the first to show traces of ossification ; this commences in the shaft, at about the fifth week of foetal life, the centres of ossifica- tion in the epiphyses appearing in the following order: First, in the lower end of the bone, at the ninth month of foetal life ; from this the condyles and tuberosities are formed ; in the head, at the end of the first year after birth; in the great trochanter, during the fourth year ; and in the lesser trochanter, between the thirteenth and four- teenth. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to the shaft, is the reverse of that of their appear- ance ; their junction does not com- mence until after puberty, the lesser trochanter being first joined, then the greater, then the head, and, lastly, the inferior extremity (the first in which ossification com- menced), which is not united until the twentieth year. Attachment of Muscles. To the great trochanter : the Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Obturator internus, Obturator externus, Gemellus superior, Gemellus inferior, and Quadrator femoris. To the lesser trochanter; the Psoas magnus, and the Iliacus below it. To the shaffe, its posterior surface : the Vastus externus, Gluteus maximus, short head of the Biceps, Vastus internus, Adductor magnus, Pectineus, Adductor brevis, and Adductor longus ; to its anterior surface : the Crureus, and Subcrureus. To the condyles : the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus. THE LEG. The skeleton of the Leg consists of three bones : the Patella, a large sesamoid bone, placed in front of the knee ; and the Tibia, and Fibula. Joins Shoujl atWr'H-. The Patella. (Figs. 107, 108.) The Patella is a flat, triangular bone, situated at the anterior part of the knee- |oint. It resembles the sesamoid bones, from being developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, and in its structure, being composed throughout of dense cancellous tissue ; but it is generally regarded as analogous to the olecranon process of the ulna, which occasionally exists as a separate piece, connected to the