OS INNOMINATUM. 1 2 altogether lost. The rough surface included between this line and the crest, affords attachment to part of the Gluteus maximus above, a few fibres of the Pyriformis below. The middle curved line, the longest of the three, commences at the crest, about an inch behind its anterior extremity, and, taking a curved direction down- wards and backwards, terminates at the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch. The space between the middle and superior curved lines and the crest is concave, and affords attachment to the Gluteus medius muscle. Near the central part of this line may often be observed the orifice of a nutrient foramen. The inferior curved line, the least distinct of the three, commences in front at the upper part of the anterior inferior spinous process, and taking a curved direction backwards and downwards, terminates at the anterior part of the great sacro-sciatic notch. The surface of bone included between the middle and inferior curved lines is concave from above downwards, convex from before backwards, and affords attach- ment to the Gluteus minimus muscle. Beneath the inferior curved line, and cor- responding to the upper part of the acetabulum, is a smooth eminence (sometimes a depression), to which is attached the reflected tendon of the Rectus femoris muscle. The Internal Surface (fig. 98) of the ilium is bounded above by the crest, below by a prominent line, the linea ilio-pectinea, and before and behind by the anterior and posterior borders. It presents anteriorly a large smooth concave surface, called the internal iliac Jossa, or venter of the ilium, which lodges the Iliacus muscle, and presents at its lower part the orifice of a nutrient canal. Behind the iliac fossa is a rough surface, divided into two portions, a superior and an inferior. The inferior or auricular portion, so called from its resemblance in shape to the ear, is coated with cartilage in the recent state, and articulates with a similar shaped surface on the side of the sacrum. The superior portion is concave and rough, for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. The crest of the ilium is convex in its general outline and sinuously curved, being bent inwards anteriorly, outwards posteriorly. It is longer in the female than in the male, very thick behind, and thinner at the centre than at the extre- mities. It terminates at either end in a prominent eminence, the anterior superior and posterior superior spinous process. The surface of the crest is broad, and divided into an external lip, an internal lip, and an intermediate space. To the external lip is attached the Tensor vaginae femoris, Obliquus externus abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi, and by its whole length the fascia lata; to the interspace between the lips, the Internal oblique; to the internal lip, the Transversalis, Quadratus lumborum, and Erector spinse, also the fascia iliaca. The anterior border of the ilium is concave. It presents two projections, separated by a notch. Of these, the uppermost, situated at the junction of the crest and anterior border, is called the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, the outer border of which gives attachment to the fascia lata, and the origin of the Tensor vaginas femoris ; its inner border, to the Iliacus internus ; whilst its extremity affords attachment to Poupart's ligament, and the origin of the Sartorius. Beneath this eminence is a notch which gives attachment to the Sartorius muscle, j and across which passes the external cutaneous nerve. Below the notch is the anterior inferior spinous process, which terminates in the upper lip of the aceta- bulum ; it gives attachment to the straight tendon of the Rectus femoris muscle. On the inner side of the anterior inferior spinous process is a broad shallow groove, over which passes the Iliacus muscle. The posterior border of the ilium, shorter than the anterior, also presents two projections separated by a notch, the posterior superior and the posterior inferior spinous processes. The former corresponds with that portion of the posterior surface of the ilium which serves for the attach- ment of the oblique portion of the sacro-iliac ligaments and the Multifidus spinas ; the latter to the auricular portion which articulates with the sacrum. Below the posterior inferior spinous process is a deep notch, the great sacro-sciatic. The Ischium forms the lower and back part of the os innominatum. It is divisible into a thick and solid portion, the body; the tuberosity, a large rough