TRANSVERSUS PERIN^EI. 749 erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continnons with, the fascia of the penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the cms penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perinamm. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the 406.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Perinaeum. crus penis, from the surface of the cms, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the side and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The Transversus Perincei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perineeal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinaeum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urinee in front. Between the muscles just examined, a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urinae, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Transversus perinasi. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep permeeal fascia), and, running from behind forwards in it, arc the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, the transverse perineeal artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinsei muscle. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the knife is carried obliquely across the back part of this space, downwards and outwards, into the ischio-rectal fossa, dividing the Transversus perinsei muscle and artery, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urinag, the superficial perinasal vessels and nerve, and more posteriorly the external haemorrhoidal vessels.