GENERAL ANATOMY. XXXV111 numerous (Todd and Bowman).* They differ very much in size and shape in different animals. In man their size varies considerably, even in the same drop of blood, between the limits of 40Vo and ^gVo °f an incn in diameter, the average being about -35-V0 (Todd and Bowman). They are circular discs, bi-concave in Fi£-1.—Human blood-glo- profile, having a slight central depression, with a raiseci border (as seen in Fig. I. b). Their colour appears of a faint yellow when they are seen singly, but it is to their aggregation that the blood owes its red hue. Human blood-discs pre- sent no trace of a nucleus. When the blood is circulating, under the microscope, in one of the lower animals, the blood-globules are seen to be separate from each other, and are also separated from the wall of the vessel by an interval or * lumen.' Doubtless the same is the case in the human body; but when drawn and examined on a slide without reagents, the blood-globules often collect into heaps like rouleaux of coin (Fig. I. c). Their shape is very soon influenced by the medium in which they are placed, and by the specific gravity of that medium. In water they swell up, lose their colour, and cease to be visible, leaving the white corpuscles in the field. Solutions of salt or sugar, denser than the serum, give them a stellate appearance; and the usual shape may be restored by diluting the solution to the proper point. A solution of the proper strength merely separates the blood-globules mechanically, without changing their shape. There can be no doubt that the difference in colour between arterial and venous blood must be due to some minute difference in the red blood- globules ; and it is also in the highest degree probable that the chemical differences between these two kinds of blood are due, in part at least, to such differences; but the change has not hitherto been rendered per- ceptible either to the microscope or to chemical analysis. Afc the same time, the researches of Professor Stokes f show that the colouring matter of the blood produces different effects on the solar spectrum, according as it is in a more or less oxidised condition ; and it is in the highest degree probable that the same change in the oxidation of the contents of the blood-globules produces the difference of colour between arterial and venous blood. The human white corjyuscles are rather larger than the red, and have an irregular or granular surface. A nucleus becomes perceptible on the addition of acetic acid. They are very similar, if not identical, with the corpuscles of the lymph and chyle, though somewhat more acted upon by acetic acid than the latter. Their proportion appears to vary con- * Hirt puts the proportion as low as 1:1761 during fasting-, and 1:695 or 1:429 after food (Kolliker). Venisection, by withdrawing so much larger a proportion of the red globules, and also by favouring the absorption of lymphatic fluid into the blood, much increases the relative proportion of the white corpuscles, so that Kolliker asserts that in the horse, after enormous venisection (up to 50 lbs.) the coloured and colourless corpuscles appear equally numerous. f Proceedings of Royal Society, 1864. bules; a, seen from the surface; b, from the side; c, united in rou- leaux; rf, rendered sphe- rical by water; e, de- colourised b}r the same; /, blood-globules shrunk by evaporation.