KNEE-JOINT. 0 193 being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and passing obliquely upwards, backwards, and outwards, is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The Posterior or Internal Crucial Ligament is larger in size, but less oblique in its direction than the anterior. It is attached to the back part of the depression behind the spine of the tibia to the popliteal notch, and to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; and passes upwards, forwards, and in- wards, to be inserted into the outer and fore-part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the anterior crucial ligament, a fasciculus is given off from it, which blends with the posterior part of that ligament. It is in relation, in front, with the anterior crucial ligament; behind, with the ligamentum posticum Winslowii. The Semilunar Fibro-Cartilages (fig. 142) are two crescentic lamella?, which are attached to the margins of the head of the tibia, and serve to deepen its surface for articulation with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick and i42.-Headx)f Tibia, with Semilunar Cartilages, etc. convex; the inner free been from above. Right Side. n -, \, . border, thin and concave. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur ; their lower sur- faces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each cartilage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, leav- ing the inner third unco- vered ; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Semilunar Fibro-Cartilage is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its convex border is united to the internal lateral ligament, and to the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is firmly implanted into a depression in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia ; its posterior extremity into the depression behind the spine, between the attachment of the external cartilage and posterior crucial ligament. The External Semilunar Fibro-Cartilage forms nearly an entire circle, covering a larger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is grooved on its outer side, for the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. Its circumference is held in connection with the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments ; and its two extremities are firmly implanted in the depressions in front and behind the spine I of the tibia. These extremities, at their insertion, are interposed between the j attachments of the internal cartilage. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage gives I off from its anterior border a fasciculus, which forms the transverse ligament. By its anterior extremity, it is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. Its ^posterior extremity divides into three slips; two of these pass upwards and forwards,- j and are inserted into the outer side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, one in front, I the other behind the posterior crucial ligament; the third fasciculus is inserted into the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a band of fibres, which passes transversely from the anterior convex margin of the external semilunar cartilage to the anterior extremity of the internal cartilage; its thickness varies considerably in different subjects. The Coronary Ligaments consist of numerous short fibrous bands, which con- nect the convex border of the semilunar cartilages with the circumference of the bead of the tibia, and with the other ligaments surrounding the joint.