DEVELOPMENT OP THE ORGANS OF SENSE. cxvii pathetic can be seen as a knotted cord at the end of the second month. The cerebral and spinal membranes are also, according* to Kolliker, a production from the protovertebral discs, and are recognisable about the sixth week. As the fissures separating* the parts of the cerebro-spinal axis appear, the membranes extend down them, and the pia mater passes into the cerebral ventricles. Bischoff, however, describes the pia mater and arachnoid as developed from the cerebral vesicles, and formed in the position which they permanently occupy. Development of the eye.—The first rudiment of the eye is seen about the third week, in a vesicle (primitive ocular vesicle), which communicates with the first cerebral vesicle, and after the latter is divided into two, com- municates with its posterior division—the Zwischenhirn or interme- diary brain—by a hollow stalk, which afterwards becomes the optic nerve. This primitive ocular vesicle, derived from the cerebral mass, is invested by a layer from the epidermic lamina of the blastoderm ; from the latter layer are derived the conjunctiva, the epithelium of the cornea, and the crystalline lens; while the cephalic layer gives origin to the vitreous body, the fibrous coat of the eye (sclerotic and cornea), the choroid and iris, and the retina. The lens is formed by a thickening* of the epidermic layer, opposite to the primitive ocular vesicle, by which that vesicle is at first depressed, and then reversed in the manner indicated by the annexed figures ; so that the cavity of the primitive ocular vesicle is finally obliterated. As this process takes place, a secondary cavity (secondary ocular vesicle) is formed between the rudimentary lens and the coats of the reversed primitive vesicle, and in this space the vitreous humour is secreted. Fig. LVIII.—Diagram of development of the lens. A B C, Different stages of development, i, Epidermic layer. 2, Thickening of this layer. 3, Crystalline depression. 4, Primitive ocular vesicle, its anterior part pushed back by the crystalline depression. 5, Posterior part of the primitive ocular vesicle, forming the external layer of the secondary ocular vesicle. 6, Point of separation between the lens and the epidermic layer. 7, Cavity of the secondary ocular vesicle, occupied by the vitreous. The lens is at first a mere depression in the epidermic layer. When this is closed the lens becomes a vesicle, formed of epithelial cells, which grow and fill its cavhry, becoming gradually transformed into fibres. It is at first surrounded by a vascular membrane—the vascular capsule of the lens—which is connected with the termination of the temporary artery (hyaloid) that forms the continuation of the central artery of the retina through the vitreous chamber. This vascular capsule of the crystalline lens forms the membrana pupil!aris (described on p. 578), and also at- taches the borders of the iris to the capsule of the lens. It disappears about the seventh month.