Growth and Development of the Body. THE whole body grows out of the fecundated ovum, and it is accordingly necessary to follow in as few words as possible the various stages in which the ovum is found in the uterus, from the earliest moment at which conception can be recognised as having taken place, down to the birth of the complete foetus. The ovum is a small spheroidal body situated in immature Graafian vesicles near their centre, but in the mature ones in contact with the membrana granulosa (see p. 724), at that part of the vesicle which projects from the surface of the ovary. The cells of the membrana granu- losa are accumulated round the ovum in greater number than at any other part of the vesicle, forming a kind of granular zone, the discus proligerus (Fig. XLIV.). The human ovum (Fig. XLY.) is ex- Fig. XLIV.—Ovum of the sow. tremely minute, measuring from ^-—th to It is a cell, Zaaapdlu GT-' - r v4-th of an inch in diameter. 12 0 consisting externally of a transparent en- velope, the zona pellucida or vitelline mem- brane. Within this, and in close contact with it, is the yelk or vitellus ; imbedded in the substance of the yelk is a small vesi- cular bod}", the germinal vesicle (vesicle of Purkinje)—the nucleus of the cell; and this contains as its nucleolus a small spot—the macula germinativa, or the spot of Wagner. The zona pellucida, or vitelline membrane, is a tliick, colourless, transparent membrane, which appears under the microscope as a bright ring, bounded externally and internally by a dark outline. It corresponds to the chorion of the impregnated ovum. The yelk consists of granules and globules of various sizes, imbedded in a more or less viscid fluid. The smaller granules resemble pigment; the larger granules, which are in greatest number at the periphery of the yelk, resemble fat-globules. In the human ovum, the number of granules is comparatively small. The germinal vesicle consists of a fine, transparent, structureless mem- brane, containing a watery fluid., in which are occasionally found a few granules. It is about —^ th of an inch in diameter, and in immature ova lies nearly in the centre of the yelk ; but, as the ovum becomes develoj)ed, it approaches the surface, and enlarges much less rapidly than the yelk. Fig. XLV.—Human ovum, from a middle-sized follicle, magnified 350 times, a, Vitelline membrane. Zona pellucida. b, External bor- der of the yelk and internal border of the vitelline mem- brane, c, Germinal vesicle and germinal spot.