433 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The Cerebellar Veins occupy the surface of the cerebellum, and are disposed in three sets, superior, inferior, and lateral. The superior pass forwards and inwards, across the superior vermiform process, and terminate in the straight sinus : some open into the venea Galeni. The Inferior cerebellar veins, of large size, run transversely outwards, and terminate by two or three trunks in the lateral sinuses. The lateral anterior cerebellar veins terminate in the superior petrosal sinuses. Sinuses op the Dura Mater. The sinuses of the dura mater are venous channels, analogous to the veins^ their outer coat being formed by the dura mater ; their inner, by a continuation of the serous membrane of the veins. They are fifteen in number, and are divided into two sets :—i. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull 2. Those at the base of the skull. The former are the Superior longitudinal. Straight sinus. Inferior longitudinal. Lateral sinuses. Occipital sinuses. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus occupies the attached margin of the falx cerebri. Commencing at the crista Galli, it runs from before backwards, groov- 238.—Vertical Section of the Skull, showing- the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. ing the inner surface of the frontal, the adjacent margins of the two parietal, and the sjuperior division of the crucial ridge of the occipital bone, and terminates by dividing into the two lateral sinuses. This sinus is triangular in form, narrow in front, and gradually increasing in size as it passes backwards. On examining its inner surface, it presents the internal openings of the cerebral veins, which run, for the most part, from behind forwards, and open chiefly at the back part of the sinus, their orifices being concealed by fibrous areolae; numerous fibrous bands (chordai Willisii) are also seen, which extend transversely across the inferior angle of the sinus; and lastly, some small, white, projecting bodies, the glandules Pacchioni. This sinus receives the superior cerebral veins, numerous veins from the diploe and dura mater, and, at the posterior extremity of the sagittal and parietal suture, veins from the pericranium. F F