BONE. li tenacious consistence, free from fit; and contains numerous minute roundish cells with many nuclei. In the shafts of adult long* bones, the marrow is of a yellow colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 96 fat, 1 areolar tissue and vessels, and 3 of fluid with extractive matters ; whilst, in the flat and short bones, in the articular ends of the long bones, in the bodies of the vertebrae, in the base of the cranium, and in the sternum and ribs, it is of a red colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 75 water and 25 solid matter, consisting of albumen, fibrin, extractive matter, salts, and a mere trace of fat. The red marrow is said by Kolliker to consist of a small quantity of areolar tissue and numerous medullary cells, and fat- cells with a large quantity of fluid. Vessels of Bone.—The blood-vessels of bone are very numerous. Those of the compact tissue are derived from a close and dense network of vessels, ramifying in the periosteum. From this membrane, vessels pass into the minute orifices in the compact tissue, running through the canals which traverse its substance. The cancellous tissue is supplied in a similar way, but by a less numerous set of larger vessels, which, per- forating the outer compact tissue, are distributed to the cavities of the spongy portion of the bone. In the long bones, numerous apertures may be seen at the ends near the articular surfaces, some of which give passage to the arteries referred to; but the most numerous and largest apertures are for the veins of the cancellous tissue which run separately from the arteries. The medullary canal in the shafts of the long bones is supplied by one large artery (or sometimes more), which enters the bone at the nutrient foramen (situated in most cases near the centre of the shaft), and perforates obliquely the compact substance. This medul- lary or nutrient artery, usually accompanied by one or two veins, sends branches upwards and downwards, to supply the medullary membrane, which lines the central cavity and the adjoining canals. The ramifications of this vessel anastomose with the arteries both of the cancellous and compact tissues. In most of the flat, and in many of the short spongy bones, one or more large apertures are observed, which transmit, to the central parts of the bone, vessels corresponding to the medullary arteries and veins. The veins emerge from the long bones in three places (Kolliker). I. By a large vein which accompanies the nutrient artery; 2. by numerous large and small veins at the articular extremities; 3. by many small veins which arise in the compact substance. In the flat cranial bones, the veins are large, very numerous, and run in tortuous canals in the diploic tissue, the sides of the canals being formed of a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the passage of branches from the adjacent cancelli. The veins thus enclosed and supported by the osseous structure, have exceedingly thin coats; and when the bony structure is divided, they remain patulous, and do not contract in the canals in which they are contained. Hence the constant occurrence of purulent absorption after amputation, in those cases where the stump becomes inflamed, and the cancellous tissue is infiltrated and bathed in pus. Lymphatic vessels have been traced, by Cruikshank, into the substance of bone, but Kolliker doubts their existence. Nerves are distributed freely to the periosteum, and accompany the nutrient arteries into the c2