123 FEMUR. Surface. at the outer side of the neck, at its junction with the upper part of the shaft. It is ^£Z*™«™L directed a little outwards and backwards, and, in the adult, is about three quarters of an inch lower than the head. It presents for examination two surfaces, and "four borders. The external surface, quadrilateral in form, is broad, rough, convex, and marked by a prominent diagonal line, which extends from the posterior superior to the anterior inferior angle : this line serves for the attachment of the tendon of the Gluteus medius. Above the. line is a triangular surface, sometimes rough for part of the tendon of the same muscle, sometimes smooth for the interposition of a bursa between that tendon and the bone. Below and be- hind the diagonal line is a smooth tri- angular surface over which the tendon of the Gluteus maximus muscle plays, a bursa being interposed. The internal sur- face is of much less extent than the external, and presents at its base a deep depression, the digital or trochanteric fossa for the attachment of the tendon of the Obturator externus muscle. The superior border is free ; it is thick and irregular, and marked by impressions for the attachment of the Pyriformis behind, the Obturator internus and Gemelli in front. The inferior border corresponds to the point of junction of the base of the trochanter with the outer surface of the shaft ; it is rough, prominent, slightly .curved, and gives attachment to the upper part of the Vastus externus muscle. The anterior border is prominent, some- what irregular, as well as the surface of bone immediately below it; it affords attachment by its outer part to the Gluteus minimus. The posterior border is very prominent, and appears as a free rounded edge, which forms the back part of the digital fossa. The Lesser Trochanter is a conical eminence, which varies in size in different subjects ; it projects from the lower and back part of the base of the neck. Its base is triangular, and connected with the adjacent parts of the bone by three well- marked borders: two of these are above —the internal continuous with the lower border of the neck ; the external with the posterior intertrochanteric line, while the