cxx GENERAL ANATOMY. in regard to the auricular part. The ventricle is separated by a constric- tion from the dilated part above, which corresponds to the aortic sinus or bulb (Fig. LIX. a, i), and from the posterior or auricular dilatation. Then each of these three parts becomes subdivided by a septum. After the completion of the ventricular septum the auricular is commenced. The septum ventriculorum is at first almost transverse, and divides off a smaller portion (the right ventricle) from the common cavity. This septum is complete about the eighth week, and then the interauricular begins to grow, commencing from above and behind, and coalescing with the edge of the interventricular septum, so as to leave an orifice (auriculo-ventri- cular) on either side. The auricular septum, however, is not complete during foetal life, but leaves an aperture (foramen ovale) by which the two auricles communicate. The heart is at first composed of a mass of foetal cells, but its rhythmic contractions can be observed even in this condition before the development of any muscular fibres, and even, according to some authors, before it is in connection with any vessels. The vessels which are in communication with the foetal heart are as follows:—In its earliest state the circulation is external to the embryo. This primitive circulation appears about the fifteenth day, and lasts till the fifth week. It consists of two arteries, the first aortic arches, which Fig. LIX.—Heart at the fifth week. A, Opened from the abdominal aspect, i, Arterial sinus. 2, Aortic arches uniting' behind to form the descending aorta. 3, Auricle. 4, Auriculo-ventricular orifice. 5, Commencing septum ventriculorum. 6, Ventricle. 7, Inferior vena cava. B, Posterior view of the same. 1, Trachea, 2, Lungs. 3, Ventri- cles. 4, 5, Auricles. 6, Diaphragm. 7, Descending aorta. 8, 9, 10, Pneumogastric nerves and their branches. unite into a single artery, running down in front of the primitive ver- tebrae and in the walls of the intestinal cavity, and joining in a single artery, which again divides into two primitive aorta' or vertebral arteries, and these give off five or six omphalomesenteric arteries, which ramify in the germinal area, forming with their parent trunks a close network, terminating in veins which converge towards a venous trunk, the terminal sinus. This vessel surrounds the vascular portion of the germinal area, but does not extend up to the anterior end of the embryo. It terminates on either side in a vein called omphalomesenteric. The two omphalome- senteric veins open by a single trunk into the auricular extremity of the heart. This primitive circulation extends gradually from the germinal area over the whole of the umbilical vesicle, and disappears as the latter becomes atrophied. In a more advanced state of the embryo, the position of this first pair of aortic arches corresponds to the first pharyngeal arch.