STRUCTURE OF LIVER. 643 would regard the whole intercapillary channel, bile cells and all, as an intralobular biliary passage. Bering's view is in most respects the same as Chrzonszczewsky's, who first succeeded in demonstrating these intralobular or (intercellular) biliary pas- sages by a kind of auto-injection in living animals—i.e. by injecting colouring matter into the blood of the living animal, when the colouring matter may be formed in the bile ducts. The ducts form a plexus (interlobular) between the lobules ; and the interlobular branches unite and form vaginal branches, which lie in the portal canals, with branches of the portal vein and hepatic duct. The ducts finally form two large trunks, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure, and the union of these is the hepatic duct. The Portal vein, on entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides into primary branches, which are con- tained in the portal canals, together with branches of the hepatic artery and duct, and the nerves and lymphatics. In the larger portal canals, the vessels are sepa- rated from the parietes, and joined to each other, by a loose cellular web, the capsule of Glisson. The veins, as they lie in the portal canals, give off vaginal branches, which form a plexus (vaginal plexus) in Glisson's capsule. From this plexus, and from the portal vein itself, the interlobular veins are given off. The Hepatic artery appears destined chiefly for the nutrition of the coats of the large vessels, the ducts, and the investing membranes of the liver. It enters the liver at the transverse fissure, with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with these vessels through the portal canals. Itgivesoff vaginal branches, which ramify in the capsule of Glisson ; and other branches, which are distributed to the coats of the vena porta? and hepatic duct. From the vaginal plexus, inter- lobular branches are given off, which ramify through the interlobular fissures, a few branches being distributed to the lobules. Kiernan supposes that the branches of the hepatic artery terminate in a capillary plexus, which communicates with the branches of the vena porta?. The Hepatic veins commence in interior of each lobule by a plexus, branches of which converge to form intralobular vein. The intralobular vein passes through the centre of the lobule, and leaves it at its base to terminate in a sublobular vein. The sublobular veins unite with neighbouring branches to form larger veins; and these join to form the large hepatic trunks, which terminate in the vena Microscopical section from the liver of a child three months old, hardened in chromic acid. The hepatic cells (b), with their single nuclei, are separated from the capillary wall by n small intervening space. The capillaries (a) contain closely-compressed coloured, and a few colourless, blood corpuscles. A. few elongated nuclei belonging to the capillary wall are seen. Within the line of junction (septum), between two hepatic cells, the transverse section of a biliary duct is seen as a small transparent space (c). There is also one at the angle, where several of these cells come into contact {d). ISO. A transverse section of a small portal canal nnd its vessels, after Kiernan. 1. Portal vein; 2. Inter- lobular branches ; 3. branches of the vein termed, by Mr. Kiernan, vaginal, also giving off interlobular branches J 4. hepatic duct; 5. patic artery. he- the the the cava. T T 2