397 COMMON ILIAC, of the part. It receives comparatively large branches from the middle and lateral sacral arteries, and its structure, according to Julius Arnold,* consists in great measure of dilated arterial vessels. On this account Arnold proposes to call it not a gland, but ' glomerulus arterio-coccygeus.' It is sometimes single, sometimes formed of several lobes, surrounded by a very definite capsule, into which the sympathetic filaments from the ganglion impar are to be traced, and in which they are said by some observers to terminate. The structure of the body is composed of a number of cavities, which Luschka believes to be glandular follicles, but which are regarded by Arnold as fusiform dilatations of the terminal branches from the middle sacral arteries. Nerves pass into this little body both from the sympa- thetic and from the fifth sacral, and in the interstices of the lobules nerve-cells are described. This body has been variously regarded as an appendage to the nervous or to the arterial system. The former seems to be Luschka's view, the latter is Arnold's.f Arnold's view is supported by the observation of Dr. Macalister, J that he has found in several birds the middle sacral arteries terminating in a bunch of interlacing and anastomosing capillaries, but without any capsule, and it is rendered in the highest degree probable, if Arnold's observation be correct, that several small saccular bodies, of a somewhat similar kind, may be found connected with the middle sacral artery. For a more detailed description of this body, we would refer to the elaborate account in ' Luschka's Anatomie,' and to the authorities quoted in Dr. Macalister's paper, as well as to a monograph by Dr. W. Mitchell Banks, reprinted in 1867 from the ' Glasgow Medical Journal.' Common Iliac Arteries. The abdominal aorta divides into the two common iliac arteries. The bifur- cation usually takes place on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. This point corresponds to the left side of the umbilicus, and is on a level with a line drawn from the highest point of one iliac crest to the other. The common iliac arteries are about two inches in length; diverging from the termi- nation of the aorta, they pass downwards and outwards to the margin of the pelvis, and divide opposite the intervertebral substance, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into two branches, the external and internal iliac arteries: the former supplying the lower extremity; the latter, the viscera and parietes of the pelvis. The right common iliac is somewhat larger than the left, and passes more obliquely across the body of the last lumbar vertebra. In front of it are the peritoneum, the ileum, branches of the sympathetic nerve, and, at its point of division, the ureter. Behind, it is separated from the last lumbar vertebra by the two common iliac veins. On its outer side, it is in relation with the inferior vena cava, and right common iliac vein, above ; and the Psoas magnus muscle, below. The left common iliac is in relation, in front, with the peritoneum, branches of the sympathetic nerve, the rectum and superior hsemorrhoidal artery • and is crossed at its point of bifurcation by the ureter. The left common iliac vein lies partly on the inner side, and part beneath the artery ; on its outer side, the artery is in relation with the Psoas magnus. Branches. The common iliac arteries give off small branches to the peritoneum, Psoas muscles, ureters, and the surrounding cellular membrane, and occasionally give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or renal arteries. * Virchow, Arch., 1864, 5, 6 ; see also Krause and Meyer in Henle and PfeifFer's Zeitsch.f. rat. Medicin. t In a course of lectures recently delivered at the College of Surgeons on the Develop- ment of the Brain, Mr. Callender suggests that Luschka's gland may have the same relation to the development of the spinal cord as he proves the pineal and pituitary body to have to that of the brain. Brit. Med. Journ., June 13, 1874. \ British Medical Journal, Jan. ll; 1868.