ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 642 The hepatic cells are of a more or less spheroidal form ; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided, from mutual compression. They vary in size from the -nnyTT to the of an inch in diameter, and contain a distinct nucleus in the interior, or sometimes two. In the nucleus is a highly refracting nucleolus, with granules. The cell-contents are viscid, and contain yellow particles, the colouring matter of the bile, and oil-globules. The cells adhere together by the surfaces, so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre towards the circum- ference of the lobule. These cells are the chief agents in the secretion of the bile. Origin of the biliary ducts.—Three views have prevailed in recent times as to the origin of the biliary ducts. 1. That they commence external to the lobules in an wieriobular plexus, the bile being secreted by the hepatic cells within the lobule, and passing into the radicles of the ducts by osmosis from those cells. This was Kiernan's view.* 2. The other two views coincide in the belief that the radicles of the biliary ducts commence within the lobules by a plexus of intra- lobular channels, but they differ as to the relation between these channels and the hepatic cells ; the one which we will call Beale's view, teaches that the hepatic cells are contained within the intralobular biliary channels ; 3. the other view, which we may call Bering's, teaches that the intralobular biliary channels lie between the hepatic cells. This anatomist has given what appears the most intelligible descrip- tion of the minute anatomy of the liver, and one which really coincides in many essential points with the original description of Kiernan, as well as with that of Beale. Hering describes the liver cells as lying packed together in the channels which are formed between the meshes of the capillary blood-vessels, but separated from the wall of the capillary by a clear space. In the centre of the line which forms the base of a pair of cells (or more rarely in the human subject in the angle formed by the meeting of several cells) a minute channel is formed, which is the radicle of the bile duct, the intralobular biliary channel, much smaller than the capillary or the hepatic cells. Kiernan's view would confine the name of biliary ducts to the bile passages external to the lobule (interlobular), while Beale's view * Kiernan, however, admitted that possibly the biliary channels might be traced some short distance into the lobules, whilst others (Henle, &c.) believed that they originate entirely external to the lobules.