ARTERIES. 3^4 the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous membrane, and runs down the back part of the forearm, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to both of which it distributes branches. Descending to the back of the wrist, it anastomoses with the termination of the anterior interosseous, and with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. This artery gives off, near its origin, the interosseous recurrent branch, a large vessel, which ascends to the interval between the external condyle and olecranon, beneath the Anconeus and Supinator brevis, anastomosing with a branch from the'superior profunda, and with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and anastomotica magna. The muscular tranches are distributed to the muscles along the ulnar side of the forearm. The carpal branches are intended for the supply of the wrist-joint. The anterior carpal is a small vessel which crosses the front of the carpus, beneath the tendons of the Flexor profundus, and inosculates with a corresponding branch of the radial artery. The posterior carpal arises immediately above the pisiform bone, winding back- wards beneath the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it giv.es off a branch which passes across the dorsal surface of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons, anasto- mosing with a corresponding branch of the radial artery, and forming the posterior carpal arch; it is then continued along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, forming its dorsal branch. The deep or communicating branch (fig. 220), arises at the commencement of the palmar arch, and passes deeply inwards between the Abductor minimi digiti and Flexor brevis minimi digiti, near their origins ; it anastomoses with the termina- tion of the radial artery, completing the deep palmar arch. The digital branches (fig. 219), four in number, are given off from the convexity of the superficial palmar arch. They supply the ulnar side of the little finger, and the adjoining sides of the little, ring, middle, and index fingers ; the radial side of the index finger and thumb being supplied from the radial artery. The digital arteries at first lie superficial to the flexor tendons, but as they pass forwards with the digital nerves to the clefts between the fingers, they lie between them, and are there joined by the interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch. The digital arteries on the sides of the fingers lie beneath the digital nerves ; and, about the middle of the last phalanx, the two branches for each finger form an arch, from the convexity of which branches pass to supply the matrix of the nail. The Descending Aorta. The Descending Aorta is divided into two portions, the thoracic, and abdominal, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk in which it is situated. The Thoracic Aorta commences at the lower border of the fourth dorsal ver- tebra, on the left side, and terminates at the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, in front of the last dorsal vertebra. At its commencement, it is situated on the left side of the spine ; it approaches the median line as it descends; and, at its termi- nation, lies directly in front of the column. The direction of this vessel being influenced by the spine, upon which it rests, it describes a curve which is concave forwards in the dorsal region. As the branches given off from it are small, the diminution in the size of the vessel is inconsiderable. It is contained in the back part of the posterior mediastinum, being in relation, in front, from above downwards, with the left pulmonary artery, the left bronchus, the pericardium, and the oesophagus; behind, with the vertebral column, and the vena azygos minor; on the right side, with the vena azygos major, and thoracic duct; on the left side, with the left pleura and lung. The oesophagus, with its accompanying nerves, lies on the right side of the aorta above: in front of the artery, in the middle of its course; whilst, at its lower part, it is on the left side, on a plane anterior to it.