200 ARTICULATIONS. verse fibres, which pass between the rough non-articular surfaces of adjoining bones. There is one between the sides of the scaphoid and cuboid ; a second between the internal and middle cuneiform bones ; a third between the middle and external cuneiform ; and a fourth between the external cuneiform and cuboid. The scaphoid and cuboid, when in contact, present each a small articulating facet, covered with cartilage, and lined either by a separate synovial membrane, or by an offset from the great tarsal synovial membrane. 3. Articulations of the Two Rows of The Tarsus with each other. These may be conveniently divided into three sets. The joint between the os calcis and the cuboid. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the scaphoid. The joint between the astragalus and the scaphoid. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the cuboid are four in number:— f Superior Calcaneo-Cuboid. 1 Internal Calcaneo-Cuboid (Interosseous), f Long Calcaneo-Cuboid. \ Short Calcaneo-Cuboid. Dorsal. Plantar. 145. -Ligaments of Plantar Surface of the Foot. The Superior Calcaneo-Cuboid Liga- ment (fig. 144) is a thin and narrow fas- ciculus, which passes between the con- tiguous surfaces of the os calcis and cuboid, on the dorsal surface of the joint. The Internal Calcaneo-Cuboid, (Inter- osseous) Ligament (fig. 144) is a short, but thick and strong, band of fibres, arising from the os calcis, in the deep groove which intervenes between it and the astragalus ; and closely blended, at its origin, with the superior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. It is inserted into the inner side of the cuboid bone. This ligament forms one of the chief bonds of union between the first and second row of the tarsus. The Long Calcaneo-Cuboid (fig. 145), the more superficial of the two plantar ligaments, is the longest of all the liga- ments of the tarsus ; it is attached to the under surface of the os calcis, from near the tuberosities, as far forwards as the anterior tubercle ; its fibres pass forwards to be attached to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone, the more su- perficial fibres being continued onwards to the basis of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament crosses the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone, converting it into a canal for the passage of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The Short Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament lies nearer to the bones than the preceding, from which it is separated by a little areolar adipose tissue. ' It is exceedingly broad, about an inch in length, and extends from the tubercle and the depression in front of it on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the inferior