URINARY ORGANS. 702 The false ligaments of the bladder are, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The two posterior pass forwards, in the male, from the sides of the rectum; in the female, from the sides of the uterus, to the posterior and lateral aspect of the bladder : they form the lateral boundaries of the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, and contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and the ureters, beside vessels and nerves. The two lateral ligaments are reflections of the peritoneum, from the iliac fossae to the sides of the bladder. The superior ligament is the prominent fold of peritoneum extending from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. It covers the urachus, and the obliterated hypogastric arteries. Structure. The bladder is composed of four coats: a serous, a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum. It invests the posterior surface, from opposite the termination of the two ureters to its summit, and is reflected from this point and from the sides, on to the abdominal and pelvic walls. The muscular coat consists of two layers of unstriped muscular fibre, an external layer, composed of longitudinal fibres, and an internal layer of circular fibres. The longitudinal fibres are most distinct on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the organ. They arise in front, from the anterior ligaments of the bladder, from the neck of the bladder, and, in the male, from the adjacent portion of the prostate gland. They spread out, and form a plexiform mesh, on the anterior surface of the bladder, being continued over the posterior surface, and base of the organ of the neck, where they are' inserted into the prostate, in the male, and into the vagina in the female. Other longitudinal fibres arise, in the male, from the sides of the prostate, and spread out upon the sides of the bladder, intersecting with one another. The circular fibres are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of the organ; but, towards its lower part, round the cervix and commencement of the urethra, they are disposed as a thick circular layer, forming the sphincter vesica?, which is continuous with the muscular fibres of the prostate gland. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, converge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted, by means of a fibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They are the muscles of the ureters, described by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that, during the contraction of the bladder, they served to retain the oblique direction of the ureters, and so prevent the reflux of the urine into them. J. B. Pettigrew gives the following results at which he has arrived by his exquisite dissections of the muscular fibres of the bladder and prostate (Phil. Trans. 1867). The muscular fibres of the bladder are arranged spirally, forming figure-of-8 loops, the superficial more longitudinal or drawn out, the deeper more circular or flattened. This arrangement has been aptly compared to that of india-rubber rings through which a stick has been passed and which are then wound twice round the stick and drawn oat into figures-of-8, some (the exterior) in very elongated loops, so as to approach the longitudinal direction, others (the central) in very flattened loops, so as to be nearly circular. The external,fibres, which are nearly longitudinal, are in four sets—an anterior and posterior, and a right and left lateral; the latter accessory and less fully developed. The fibres are arranged in seven strata, three external, three internal, and a middle, pursuing well-marked directions in each. These layers, however, are very imperfect,' the fibres rarely, if ever, occupying precisely the same plane and running exactly parallel. They, moreover, split up, and become fused with each other, with corresponding or homologous fibres, and with fibres which are either superimposed or underlie them.' The fibres of the first and seventh layers are the most feebly developed. The crossings or decussations of the loops occur at different distances in pro- ceeding from before backwards, this crossing forming a kind of spiral line. The loops are directed towards and embrace the urachus and urethra respectively. The terminal ex- pansions of the loops in the other layers contribute to the formation of the fourth layer, particularly towards the base and apex, which are, therefore, thicker than the other parts. The aggregation of the loops towards the apex forms the sphincter. The longitudinal, slightly