292 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E. Fracture of the lower end of the radius (fig. 185) is usually called Colles's fracture, from the name of the eminent Dublin surgeon who first accurately described it. It is generally produced by the patient falling upon the hand, which receives the entire weight of the body. This fracture usually takes place from half an inch to an inch above the articular surface if it occurs in the adult; but in the child, before the age of sixteen, it is more frequently a separation of the epiphysis from the diaphysis. The displacement which is produced is very considerable, and bears some resemblance to dislocation of the carpus backwards, from which it should be carefully distinguished. The lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards behind the upper fragment by the combined actions of the Supinator longus and the flexors and the extensors of the thumb and carpus, producing a well-marked prominence on the back of the wrist, with a deep depression above it. The upper fragment projects forwards, often lacerating the substance of the Pronator quadratus, and is drawn by this muscle into close contact with the lower end of the ulna, causing a projection on the anterior surface of the forearm, immediately above the carpus, from the flexor tendons being thrust forwards. This fracture may be distinguished from dislocation by the de- formity being removed on making sufficient extension, when crepitus may be occasionally detected ; at the same time, on extension being discontinued, the parts immediately resume their deformed appearance. The age of the patient will also assist in determining whether the injury is fracture or separation of the epiphysis. The treatment consists in flexing the forearm, and making powerful extension from the wrist and elbow, depressing at the same time the radial side of the hand, and retaining the parts in that position by well-padded MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Lower Extremity are subdivided into groups, corresponding with the different regions of the limb. 185.—Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius. jristol-shaped splints. Hip. Iliac Region. Gluteal Region. Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Iliacus. Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Thigh. Gluteus minimus. Pyriformis. Anterior Femoral Region. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris. Tensor vaginoe femoris. Sartorius. Rectus. Vastus externus. Vastus internus. Crureus. Subcrureus. Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Posterior Femoral Region. Internal Femoral Region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Leg. Anterior Tibio-fibular Region. Adductor longus, Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius pollicis. Peroneus tertius.