714 MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. merit of the vas deferens. It extends up into the cord for about two or three inches, where it terminates by a blind extremity, which is occasionally bifurcated. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and sometimes it be- comes dilated towards its extremity : more commonly, it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasionally, it is found unconnected with the epididymis. The Vas Deferens, the excretory duct of the testis, is the continuation of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower part of the globus minor, it ascends along the posterior and inner side of the testis and epididymis, and along the back part of the spermatic cord, through the spermatic canal to the internal abdominal ring. From the ring it descends into the pelvis, crossing the external iliac vessels, and curves round the outer side of the epigastric artery : at the side of the bladder, it arches backwards and downwards to its base, crossing outside the obliterated hypogastric artery, and to the inner side of the ureter. At the base of the bladder, it lies between that viscus and the rectum, running along the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation it becomes enlarged and sac- culated ; and, becoming narrowed, at the base of the prostate, unites with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens presents a hard and cord-like sensation to the fingers ; it is about two feet in length, of cylin- drical form, and about a line and a quarter in diameter. Its walls are of extreme density and thickness, measuring one-third of a line ; and its canal is extremely small, measuring about half a Hue. In structure, the vas deferens consists of three coats : i. An external, or cellular coat; 2. A muscular coat, which is thick, dense, elastic, and consists of two longi- tudinal, and an intermediate circular layer of muscular fibres ; 3. An internal, or mucous coat, which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds; its epithelial covering is of the columnar variety. Vesicula Seminales. The Seminal Vesicles are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and secreting some fluid to be added to that of the testicles. Each sac is somewhat pyramidal in form, the broad end being directed backwards, and the narrow end forward towards the prostate. They measure about two and a half inches in length, about five lines in breadth, and from two or three lines in thickness. They vary, however, in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureters to the base of the prostate gland. Their under surface rests upon the rectum, from which they are separated by the recto-vesical fascia. Their posterior extremities diverge from each other. Their anterior extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. Along the inner margin of each vesicula runs the enlarged and convoluted vas deferens. The inner border of the vesicula?, and the corresponding vas deferens, form the lateral boundary of a triangular space, limited behind by the recto-vesical peritoneal fold; the portion of the bladder included in this space rests on the rectum, and corresponds with the trigonum vesicas in its interior. Structure. Each vesicula consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and giving off several irregular ceeeal diverticula ; the separate coils, as well as the diverticula, being connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, this tube is about the diameter of a quill, and varies in length from four to six inches ; it terminates posteriorly in a cul-de-sac ; its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins on its inner side with the corresponding vas deferens, and forms the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory ducts, two in number, one on each side, are formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens. Each duct