ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 128 acini of the kidney are found to be composed of small convo- luted bloodvessels *. The tubes which convey the urine from the acini of the kidney, are seen, if the injection has been very penetrating, filled with the injected fluid. There are a few small bloodvessels between the uriniferous tubes. The papillae of the kidneys have their membranous capsules, or Infundibula, but these are not so numerous as the papillae, one infundibulum being common to two of the papillae, in some instances. The infundibula open into a common cavity, which, in form, is somewhat oval. When distended, it projects behind the kidney, and has been called the pelvis of that organ. The pelvis of the kidney has two membranous coats, and from it the Ureter takes its orimn. o The pelvis is in part surrounded by the branches of the renal artery and those of the renal vein; hence the great dan- ger of cutting into the pelvis of the kidney, with the view of extracting urinary concretions that are lodged within it. Setting aside the danger of dividing these large vessels, it may be added, that it might be extremely difficult to extract the urinary concretion, imbedded in the pelvis of the kidney, many of which have branches diverging from the body of it, and which take an exact mould of the infundibula of the kid- ney. Each kidney has one large artery which comes off from the abdominal aorta at right angles; and, in some instances, there are two or three such arteries. Owing to the situation of the kidneys, the right renal artery, or arteries, are longer than the left. The smaller branches of the arteries of the kidneys are distributed through every part of the cortical substance of these glands. The larger branches form arches ; but there are few communicating branches between these arches, so that an in- jection thrown into one of the larger branches sometimes fills a part only of the kidney. The still smaller branches of the renal arteries are distri- • Vide Plate XXXVI. Fig. I, 5, 6, in my Outlines of Anatomy.