OF THE FEMALE MAMMiE, 7 of the breast, and are from twelve to eighteen in number. The excretory ducts do not communicate with each other. The lactiferous tubes are coiled up within the cellular sub- stance of the elastic papilla, in such a manner, that the milk does not flojv through them until they are extended. The mammae are largely supplied with blood from the ex- ternal and internal mammary arteries, and are also furnished with absorbent vessels. The papilla of the mamma is surrounded by a dark- coloured line, called Areola, which, during pregnancy, be- comes almost black; upon the surface of the papilla there are the orifices of the ducts of glands, which secrete a mucous fluid, in order to prevent excoriation. The nerves of the mammae are derived from the axillary plexus. By the breasts, the milk is secreted, which is intended for the nourishment of the child, for some time after birth. This secretion begins a short time before delivery; and the milk continues to flow for many months, if the woman suckles her child. There is much difference in different individuals as to the quantity of the milk which is secreted; and even in the same woman, after different pregnancies. The child, by means of its lips, grasps the nipple, and excludes the external air; it then acts with its tongue, as by the piston of an exhausting syringe: thus the papilla is elongated; the lactiferous ducts within it are stretched out; and the milk, being forced from the breast, by the pressure of the atmosphere, flows into the child’s mouth. The milk of different animals is of different qualities. The chemists have turned their attention chiefly to the milk of the cow, which is composed of the following ingredients:— Water, Oil, Curd, Extractive, Sugar of Milk, Acetic Acid, Muriate of Soda, Muriate of Potash, Sulphate of Potash, Phosphate of Lime, Phosphate of Magnesia, and Phosphate of Iron. Woman’s milk differs from that of the cow: First, In con- taining less curd; second, Its oil is so intimately combined