287 OF TIIE FOSTER 1011 ILIAC ARTERY. which anastomose with the deep-seated branches of the pudic artery. The artery at length terminates in the navel. The next considerable branch has been called the ii/emor- hhoidea media. It is often awanting. This artery sometimes takes its origin from the posterior iliac, or pudic artery. It passes along the anterior surface of the rectum, as far as the sphyncter ani. This artery divides into numerous small branches, which are spent upon the rectum, and which anastomose with an artery of the same name, which is derived from the inferior mesenteric artery. A few small branches of this artery are spent upon the bladder of urine, vesiculae seminales, and prostate gland. This artery has sometimes been wounded in performing the lateral operation for lithotomy, and also in cases of fistulas which are situated very high up within the rectum. The next considerable branch is the uterine hypogas- tric artery. This artery, which arises from the pudic, um- bilical or hsemorrhoidal, passes between the laminae of the broad ligaments to the posterior surface of the uterus, and it anastomoses freely with the spermatic arteries. Upon the inner side of the gravid womb, the smaller branches of this artery may be observed, after they have been filled by in- jection, disposed like the worm of a cork-screw. The Vesical Arteries are also derived from the posterior iliac arteries, and generally in common with the umbilical, the- root of which remains pervious even in the adult. The obturator Artery commonly arises from the posterior iliac artery; but sometimes takes its origin in common with the epigastric artery, from the anterior iliac, and sometimes from the ischiatic artery. The trunk common to the obturator and epigastric ar- teries, is sometimes a quarter of an inch in length ; in other instances, it measures from an inch to an inch and a half, and I have met with it of all intermediate lengths. If the common trunk be only a fourth of an inch long, the obturator artery runs on that side of the sac which is next to the anterior spinous process of the ilium, and cannot be dis-