OF THE NERVES. 531 tic, passing into the peritonaeum forming the mesentery, and likewise to the pleura. He adds, “ Branches may be also traced from the par vagum, phrenic and grand sympathetic nerves, to the pericardium Lobstein lias also observed *f*, “ Ad alias vero partes prae- ter vasa atque viscera properant ramuli nervei e gangliis emissi. Plurimi ad musculos eunt voluntatis imperio subjectos, ad musculum scilicet longum colli, ad intercostales, juxta Wal- tekum, ad septum transversum. “ Surculi aliquot in ligamentis vertebrarum absumuntur, potissimum in regione lumbali, aliivasorum ramulos insequen- tes, in corpora vertebrarum ipsa se immittere videbantur.” When we examine, with very considerable care, the web that involves the cceliac, splenic, hepatic, superior, and inferior mesenteric arteries, we see distinctly, even with the naked eye, very minute nerves passing along it, in very different direc- tions, and forming upon it a very intricate plexus ; and, upon using a magnifying glass, still smaller plexuses come into view. This mode of distribution of nerves is not peculiar to the sympathetic nerves : it occurs, as has been stated, upon the surfaces of other arteries, as upon the internal carotid, lingual arteries, on the pulmonary artery, and upon the aorta, but al- so upon the lamina spiralis of the cochlea, and also of the re- tina, and on the face, and even extremities of the body, as has been shewn by Mr Swan, in several engravings affixed to his book on the Nervous System. Whether nerves proceed from this cellular web into the coats of the arteries, remains yet to be further investigated. I have seen a fine thread or threads, passing from the web into the substance of the arteries ; but whether that thread was a nerve, or a portion of the web, which, by the way, is much tougher than a web of common cellular substance, I cannot say, on account of the similarity as to the toughness and colour of that substance, and a filament of a nerve. • Page 9., on the Nervous System. •f Page 41, L 1 2