OF THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 213 OF THE INTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION OF THE FE- MALE. The Ovaria, formerly called Testes Muliebres, constitute the most essential part of the female organs of generation; from these the rudiment of the foetus is derived. The ovaria are situated in the posterior pinions of the broad ligament of the womb ; and, in prime of life, somewhat resem- ble in figure and size the testes of the male. They are about an inch, or an inch and a quarter long, about half an inch broad, and somewhat flattened at their sides; but, in old women they shrink materially in size, are to the touch considerably harder, and exhibit a very irregular or tubercu- lated surface, which is also sometimes the case with respect to the ovaria of women in the prime of life. Vide Plate VIII. Pig. 2. The ovaria of infants are of a reddish colour, and somewhat of a prismatic form. The ovaria are covered by the peritonaeum ; and when an ovum has passed into the ute- rine tube, Haller always observed a fissure in that coat. Within the outer coat, the proper coat of the ovaria is placed ; it is of a grey colour, and fibrous. When the ovaria of young women are divided, they are found to be composed of a greyish substance, which has a spongy texture, in which a number of small transparent bo- dies called ovula may be observed. Biehmer has published the subjoined very full and accu- rate account of the structure of the ovaria*. “ Organa, quae ova continent, ovaria dicuntur, et vi structu- re, corpora sunt utplurimum semiovalia, compacta, diverse magnitudinis, fibroso-vasculosa, et glanduloso-vesiculosa, infra tubas, peritonei membrana, quo involvuntur, herentia, me- diantibus alis vespertilionum tubis, ligamentis autem tereti- bus utero firmissime juncta.1’ “ Ex structura ovariorum patet, ilia gcnerandis ovis apta esse. Ovaria enim corpora sunt fibroso-vasculosa, et glandu- loso-vesiculosa (sect. 10) ; ejusmodi autem corpora organa • Vide Obs. Anat; Ilala: Magdeburg" 1652. i