52 elements of anatomy. the blood only moved forward when the heart contracted; nay, I could, in like manner, number the strokes of the heart, by looking at veins composed of at least a dozen capillary branches, a similar subsultory motion being equally well per- ceivable in them. “ Experiment 4.—I cut the crural nerve, of one side, at the top of the thigh, and drew the divided ends asunder, so as to make it impossible for them to reunite. The animal was in- stantly rendered insensible of injury done to the foot; yet the circulation was as rapid between the toes of that foot as be- tween those of the other foot, and continued so for fifteen weeks, though the animal was still insensible of the most vio- lent injury done to the toes. On dissection, the ends of the nerves were not reunited, but had grown, by a cellular sub- stance, to the neighbouring muscles. The end of the nerve next to the spinal marrow, was enlarged, the other end was diminished; and the whole nerve, from that to the foot, was rather of a less bright colour than natural. That leg was, however, smaller than in the other considerably, their circum- ference being, to each other, as 37 is to 44; and hence the solid contents were, to each other, nearly as 13 is to 19. “ Experiment 5.—I applied pure spiritus cornu cervi to the foot of a frog, and which seemed to be much hurt by it; and, in a few minutes, the scarf skin was separated from the skin, and the whole foot was very red. All the small arteries were redder and larger, and their communications with the veins much more visible than they are naturally. The number of the small arteries did not seem to be in- creased, or I could not observe an error loci of the globules ; but in the interstices of the vessels there was more than com- mon yellowness, as if there had been an exudation into the cellular membrane of some part of the serum, perhaps mixed with some of the red part of the blood. « Experiment 6.—On applying spiritus cornu cervi to the tail of a water salamander, the appearances were exactly the same as have been described in the last experiment.