451 OF THE INTERNAL EAR. of tiie aperture. By means of this tube, the air passes into the cavity of the tympanum. This mucous membrane lining the eustachian tube is sometimes so much thickened by in- flammation, that the air scarcely passes through it into the cavity, which has been supposed to be a cause of deafness. My Father subjected this opinion to the test of experiment in the following manner: “ I placed, “ says he, “ an alarm clock, which rings very loud, upon one cushion, and I stood upon another. Then having stopped my meatus auditorii externi, I set the clock arranging, without being able to hear its sound. In like manner, when I held my watch near to the external ear, I heard its sound distinctly; but when I held it within my mouth, between my tongue and the roof of my mouth, without allowing it to touch either, and then stopped my external ears, I did not hear its ■strokes. The primary use, therefore, of the eustachian tube, is, to furnish air to the cavity of the tympanum, through which the tremor of the membrane of the drum may, in the : first place, be communicated to the membrane of the round hole ; but, in the next place, as air is conveyed to the cavity of the tympanum in amphibious animals, where the round hole and cochlea are wanting, we must suppose, that the tre- ; mor of the air in the tympanum serves to influence the foot of the stapes and membrane of the oval hole, or that two dif- ferent impressions are made on the membrane of the oval hole The cavity of the tympanum in the skeleton also commu- nicates with the smaller and deeper seated cavity called Vestible, by the foramen ovale; and it communicates also with one-half of the cochlea, by means of a rounded aperture, which, in the recent body, is filled up by a membrane. The cavity of the tympanum communicates, nearly oppo- site to the eustachian tube, with the cells contained within the mastoid process of the temporal bone : these open into the upper and back-part of the cavity. The cells of the mastoid process are not invariably of the • See Monko on Fishes, p. 55* T f 2