OF THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. m ral arch called Gimbernat's Ligament, and is attached to it by cellular substance. When this happens, the obturator ar- tery, by the descent of a portion of the intestine through the crural ring, is pressed upon the very part of the crural arch divided by Gimbernat in his operation for crural hernia. In some cases I have seen the obturator artery sent off from the external iliac artery, about an inch and a half above, and in others, about an inch below, the epigastric artery. In still other instances, the obturator arises fro'm the superfi- cial femoral artery; and ascends along the pectineus muscle, entering the pelvis at the crural aperture. The artery in this case is placed behind the crural hernia. I have seen, in one instance, two obturator arteries, the one of which took its rise from the hypogastric artery, and the other arose from a trunk which was common to it and the epigastric, and both obturator arteries were united before passing through the foramen obturator urn. I have made particular mention of all the varieties as to the origin of the obturator arteries which have fallen under my observation, as these arteries are of considerable size, and, when divided in the time of performing the operation for cru- ral hernia, have sometimes poured out so much blood as to prove fatal; for, on account of their deep situation and retrac- tion, it is very difficult to secure these vessels by ligature. The obturator artery gives branches to the levator ani, ilia- cus internus and psoas muscles: frequently there is a branch which passes across the symphysis pubis, and which anasto- moses with a branch of that artery of the opposite side. When this artery has passed through the foramen obtura- torum, it gets between the acetabulum and tuber ischii, and gives out several branches to the obturator internus and ex- ternus muscles, and to the adductor maximus; it anastomoses with the internal branch of the circumflex artery, which is derived from the profunda femoris. The artery then divides into external and internal branches, which are spent on the lower part of the bladder of urine, the vesiculse seminalcs, and prostate gland, and communicate vol. ir. x