ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 382 This artery sends small branches to the dura mater, and to the cavernous sinus; and also gives off small branches which accompany the third, fourth, and fifth pairs of nerves. When the internal carotid artery has perforated the dura mater, it sends off’the ocular, or ophthalmic artery. The other, and smaller branches of the internal carotid arteries, are distributed upon the optic nerve, the infundibu- lum, and the choroid plexuses. There are two other large branches of the internal carotid artery, the arteriae anteriores cerebri, and the arteriae mediae fossae Sylvii. The arteri.e a NTEitioitEs cebebri, are disposed in a parallel manner in respect to each other : they run forwards along the under parts of the anterior lobes of the brain, and communicate by means of a transverse canal. Each branch is afterwards subdivided into two branches: the smaller is spent entirely upon the anterior lobes of the brain ; the larger is reflected backwards along the corpus cal- losum, and is divided into a great number of small branches, which anastomose repeatedly with the smaller branches of the former artery : many of the smaller branches dip into the substance of the brain, and supply its cortical and medullary part. The arteries medi.'E cerebri, or arteria? media? fossae Sylvii, are larger than the arteriae anteriores. These arteries are lodged in the fossae Sylvii, and extend obliquely outwards: their innumerable branches supply the middle and posterior lobes of the brain, and anastomose with the branches of the anterior arteries, and also with those of the vertebral ar- teries. A few of the smaller branches of these arteries perforate the substance of the brain, supply the anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles, and also concur in forming the choroid plexuses. The brain also receives blood by the medium of the verte- bral branches of the subclavian artery. The vertebral arteries, after having entered the head, detach large branches, which join with similar branches of