OF THE PLANTAR ARTERIES. 305 ronea posterior descends behind the external malleolus to the outer and back part of the foot, and anastomoses with the external malleolar and external plantar arteries. The posterior tibial artery, placed between the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor communis digitorum, follows the course of the tibia to the lower end of that bone; and becoming more su- perficial, is situated between the inner ancle and the tendo Achillis. There are several small branches detached from the poste- rior tibial artery and sent to the adjacent muscles ; and also several small branches to the os calcis, which communicate with the smaller branches of the anterior tibial artery. The trunk of the artery then passes to the sole of the foot; and before passing behind the abductor pollicis, divides into the Internal and External Plantar Arteries. The internal plantar artery is placed on the inner side of the foot, between the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle and the origin of the abductor pollicis and tendinous aponeurosis of the sole. From this artery, several small branches are detached, which are proper to the muscles and integuments of the sole of the foot. This artery passes under the flexor longus pollicis pedis, anastomoses with the plantar arch, and gives a branch, which supplies the outer side of the great toe, and inner side of the toe next to it. The plantaris externa, which is larger than the internal plantar artery, passes between the flexor brevis digitorum pe- dis, and flexor accessorius, till it reaches the metatarsal bone of the little toe. It then inclines inwards, to the basis of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. This artery detaches a branch to the under and outer part of the heel, which communicates with the branches of the an- terior tibial and fibular arteries; and also sends several branches to the flexor muscles of the toes. This artery forms an arch between the flexor muscles, the metatarsal bones of the small toes, and the root of the great yoL. if. fr