477 OF THE CUTICLE. served, “ Quod si vera esset haec de poris doctrina, admotis viscidis hisce substantiis cuticula a liquoribus subtus effusis in bullam attolleretur, et innumeris documentis cognitum habe- mus nullas ejusmodi bullas attolli, ac proinde qui per cuticu- lam emittuntur liquores, neutiquam subter earn prius effusos esse. K Cum cuticula in vesiculas attollitur, siquidem quod hi volunt verum esset, necessario per hos poros liquor transiret. At baud paulo secus sese res habet, nisi enim liquoris pondus aut extensu aut vis externa adhibita cuticulse partes dilanient, nulla ei elabendi facultas permittitur The cuticle serves as a defence to the true skin, and pre- vents too great evaporation from its surface. Every practical anatomist well knows how quickly the true skin dries, sticks to the neighbouring parts, and assumes a horny appearance, when the cuticle has been removed. In short, the cuticle is of such a dense structure as to prevent the shrivelling of the skin from too great evaporation from its surface, which thereby might become too rigid. The cuticle does not merely form the external lamina of the skin, but is reflected inwards, into the nose, ears, lips, mouth, pharynx and gullet, anus and vagina, and it forms sheaths for the hairs. The cuticle, when traced into the canals above named, be- comes gradually thinner and thinner, and at last so much so as to be traced with great difficulty. I have traced the cuti- cle as far down as the cardia, where it terminates by a semi- circular edge, as depicted in my Thesis; but in some animals, as in the horse, it may be traced over only half of the sto- mach. Some authors are of opinion, that the cuticle lines the vil- lous coat of the intestinal canal, but I entertain doubts as to that opinion, for it is not visible by dissection, by the knife, or by the application of boiling water, nor have I seen it ele- * Works, page 711. Quarto Edit The observations of Mr Herbert Mayo on Cuticle and Horn in his Anat. and Physiol. Compt. No. I. arc well worthy the attention of the reader. >