ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 490 During the progress of this nerve through the palatine ca- nal, it gives off some small nerves, which are spent upon the lower and back part of the inferior concha of the nose, upon the back teeth of the upper-jaw, and upon the antrum maxil- lare ; and after the trunk of the nerve has emerged from the palatine canal, it passes forwards under the membrane of the palate, upon which it divides into a number of small branches, which supply the soft palate, uvula, and tonsils. After these nerves have been sent off, the part of the fifth pair enters the infra-orbitar canal, and has been therefore cal- led Infrci-orbitar Nerve. This nerve gives off several small nerves, which are lodged in their proper canals, and which supply the teeth of the upper jaw. It next sends off a branch, called the infra-orbitar, which is spent upon the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle; and it gives also a few small twigs, which are spent upon the nose; and from the infra-orbitar nerve there are small nerves, which have been called the superior labial nerves, which com- municate with the portio dura of the seventh pair. The relation of the second branch of the fifth pair to the orbit merits the peculiar attention of the surgeon, as this nerve is to be divided immediately at its exit, in order to re- lieve that very painful affection of the face called Neuralgia faciei. The division of the nerve should be made as closely as pos- sible to the skull, as that nerve, soon after its exit, divides into a number of branches. In general the operation is only pal- liative, as the divided nerve is re-united by nervous matter. The third great branch of the fifth pair of nerves, called the Inferior Maxillary, which is the largest branch, passes off at a right angle from the Gasserian Ganglion; it de- scends through the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone, and passes under the internal pterygoid muscle; it gives off branches to the buccinator, pterygoid, and masseter muscles, and branches which accompany the superficial temporal artery. The inferior maxillary nerve gives off a considerable branch, which, as it passes to the tongue, has been called the Lingual Branchy and which passes between the pterygoid muscles.