OF ABSORPTION. 567 if they had had any communication with the sanguiferous system. Having enumerated the circumstances hostile to the com- munication between the smaller branches of the arteries, or of the veins and the lymphatic system, and also those which render it probable, that absorption is not performed by the vessels of the circulating system, it remains to be considered whether the lymphatic vessels be absorbents. Various circumstances are in favour of such an opinion. The analogy between the lacteal and lymphatic vessels is complete in every circumstance. The coats of both are thin, tough and transparent; both sets of vessels abound in valves; both pass through similar glands, while some of the vessels pass along their surface, and others pass through them, and both have one common termination in the thoracic duct. The lymphatic, like the lac- teal vessels, begin by open mouths. There is no similarity between the veins which convey the red blood, and the lym- phatic vessels. In the former there are few valves, but in the latter a great number. In the former, a few valves are suffi- cient to determine the fluid to the heart during the contraction of the muscles ; but in the lymphatic veins, the push is want- ing behind, more assistance is necessary; even the smallest pressure, whether of a muscle or artery, may assist in driv- ing the fluid onwards. To give a practical proof of the ef- fect of the valves, if a lymphatic vessel be filled with mercury, great care must be taken in handling it, as the slightest touch drives the mercury beyond the next pair of valves. As the lymphatic vessels, therefore, are better fitted for taking advan- tage of the pressure of the neighbouring organs, and as more pressure is required to push on their contents, we are led to conclude that they have a different origin. It may be also remarked, that Majendie and Flandrin, who have denied that the lymphatic vessels are absorbents, ad- mit that the chyle is absorbed by the lacteal vessels. It merits notice also, that there are many lymphatic vessels pro- per to the intestinal tube, which arise from its external and middle coats. These unite upon the mesentery with those ves-