614 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. ference greater, and hence it has been stated by Dr Clarke *, that a greater number of male than of female infants die du- ring; birth. Till the sixth week, the belly of the foetus is in contact with the placenta. About the eighth week, the umbilical cord is nearly an inch long. Dr Clarke of Dublin endeavoured to ascertain the average size of the head of male and female children at the full time. The longest diameter is from the crown to the chin, and it is about five inches. The breadth of the head from the one parietal protuberance to the other, is 3| inches. Dr Clarice measured the heads of a hundred and twenty children, born at the full time, and found the circumference passing through the occipital protuberance and the middle of the os frontis, to be at an average 13.8 inches; and across the top of the head, from ear to ear, 7.32 inches. The mean weight of the foetus, at the natural period of birth, is about seven pounds avoirdupois. Dr Macaulay, during his long practice, weighed several thousand new born and perfect chil- dren ; the smallest was 4 lb., the largest 11 lb. 2 oz. Dr Clarke has obsei'ved, that the average weight of twelve twins was five pounds and a half each ; and twins are are not only smaller, than in the case of a single child, but weaker, and more disposed to disease. Calculations have been made as to the proportions of cases in which there are twins. Dr Clarke has observed, that in the Dublin Hospital, 1 in 58 had twins, and in the British Lying-in Hospital, 1 in 91. Triplets, according to Clarke, do not occur in above 1 out of 5000 cases. In the preceding parts of this work, the anatomy of the se- veral bowels of the foetus has been given ; and Plate X. gives a more impressive idea of the relative situation of the bowels of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis, than language can com- municate. It shews the situation of the heart and lungs of the foetus; the flatness of the diaphragm ; the greater size of the abdomen than in the adult, the greater size of the fiver, * London Phil. Trans., vol. lxxvi.