79 OF THE LARYNX. Observations on the Physiology of the Larynx. The larynx is subservient to two different purposes ; it gives passage to the air which enters and issues out from the lungs, and it is the seat of the voice, as is evident from the loss of voice which follows the opening the windpipe. In the higher orders of animals, there are all the requisites essential to the production of sound ; lungs for the accumula- tion of air, a trachea or tube for the air, and vocal chords, ca- pable of vibrating from the action of the air that is expired. But fishes and insects are incapable of emitting a sound, as there is in them no magazine in which the air is accumulated. It may be also observed, that the mere passage of the air through the glottis is not adequate to the production of sound, for the air during sleep passes through the glottis, but no sound is produced; the production of sound is therefore a voluntary effort. The larynx is composed of elastic cartilages, each of which is well calculated for vibrating; and these cartilages are so disposed, that an aperture is always left between them for the air entering into and passing out from the lungs. The sound of the voice is occasioned by the vibrations to which the air expelled from the lungs is exposed in passing through the glottis; which sound is modified by the varied form and dimensions of the parts of the glottis, and by the varied velocity and degrees of force with which the air passes through the glottis. Thus sounds are grave or acute accord- ing to the velocity of the vibrations of the vocal chords; and thus the intensity of the sound depends upon the extent of the vibrations, but on what the peculiar tone depends has not been ascertained. The larynx has been compared to an organ, of which the lungs are the bellows, the trachea the pipes, and the throat and lips the keys. It seems probable that the sound of the voice has some connection with the capacity of the larynx: hence the very remarkable acuteness, in the sound of the voice, when the la-