OF THE SPIRAL NERVE. 519 The trunk of the nerve, at the elbow-joint, is imbedded in the groove between the extensores carpi radiales, and bra- chiales, and brachialis internus; and when so situated, de- taches several small branches to the extensor and flexor mus- cles. Opposite to the head of the radius, the trunk of the nerve is subdivided into tivo great branches, one of which is deep- seated\ the other more superficial. The superjicial branch descends along with the radial ar- tery, and below the middle of the radius, is subdivided into the volar and dorsal branches. The former is distributed upon the annular ligament and muscles of the thumb; the latter divides into a number of small branches, which are dis- tributed upon the muscles, in the vicinity of the metacarpal bones and fore-finger; and there are also branches of this nerve which are proper to the fore and middle fingers, and to the side of the ring-finger, next to the middle-finger. The deep-seated branch supplies the extensores carpi radia- les, perforates the supinator radii, and reaches the back-part of the fore-arm, and, descending along the extensor primi in- temodii pollicis, arrives at the back-part of the hand, and an- nular ligament of the wrist, and at length terminates on the back-part of the metacarpus. My Father traced a branch of this nerve passing into the back-part of the ligament of the carpus; although Haller has denied that nerves can be traced into ligaments *. Mr Swan informs us, that he also had traced nerves into the ligaments of the wrist, from the radial and dorsal branches of the ulnar nerves, and likewise from the posterior interos- seous. He also observes, that “ many branches may be traced to the ligaments from the deep branch of the anterior tibaal -f\” 9tK The musculo-cutaneus, or perforans casserii, generally perforates the upper-part of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and afterwards passing between the scapulo-radialis, • Vide Nervou3 System, p. 66. f Vide Page 9. of his Observations on the Nervous System.