ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 25 4 close to, and nearly parallel with, this artery, all constitute such a combination of difficulties, as must deter the most enterprising surgeon from undertaking this operation on the left side The subclavian artery, following somewhat of a transverse course, passes between the anterior and middle scalenus mus- cle, and is somewhat bent downwards in its progress to the first rib. The late Mr Ramsden demonstrated the possibility of throwing a ligature around the subclavian artery after it has passed between the scaleni muscles; and Mr Liston, of this city, successfully performed this operation four years ago +. The followin g is his account. “ Having placed my patient in a proper light, with his head slightly raised by pillows, I commenced my operation by a division of the integuments immediately above the clavicle, in a line with it, and about two and a half inches long, and another incision on the outer side of the sterno-mastoid mus- cle of one inch and a half, falling perpendicularly upon the middle of the first. The two flaps were then dissected back, so as to expose the external jugular vein, which, as lying in the way, was cut across, and the lower orifice (that pointing upwards) which alone bled, secured. Though I had deter- mined to tie every vessel of consequence as I went along, still I was unwilling to put ligatures on the veins if I could possi- bly avoid it. The other orifice of the jugular, as it gave no trouble, was therefore left untied. In this stage of the ope- ration, the transversalis humeri or supra-scapular artery, was necessarily divided and tied. After dividing part of the omo- hyoideus, I then pursued my dissection to the level of the axillary plexus of nerves. Having cut carefully on their an- terior surface, so as to feel pulsation distinctly, and detaching what I imagined to be the artery, I passed a ligature round it. I then carried the ends of the cord through a serve liga- ture, so as to ascertain if, by compression of this body, I could * Vide Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, July 1820- •f- Ibid. July 1820.