42 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. stance and fat, and arc so situated as to be at the greatest possible distance from external injury. lhe larger arteries are situated on the bending side of the body; thus the carotid artery and aorta are placed in front of the spine; the subclavian and humeral arteries on the inner side of the scapula and humerus; and the arteries of both ex- tremities are placed on the bending sides of these : hence, in- stead of being contracted when the arm or leg is bent, they are rather enlarged, and the flow of blood through them is not impeded. The branches of the larger trunks of the arte- ries are generally nearer to the surface than the parent trunks. Some of the arteries are placed between the processes, or within canals of the bones, as in the lower jaw’, or in grooves in the ribs. They are placed on the bending sides of the joints, otherwise they would be overstretched. The larger arteries are seated much deeper than the veins : the cutaneous branches of these are small and short; whereas many of the trunks of the veins are seated under the skin, and many of their smaller branches are deep seated. The larger branches of the arteries are pretty constant as to their situation; but the same observation is not applicable to the smaller branches; and, even in the corresponding limbs, there is much variety as to their origin, course, and mode of distri- bution. The arteries divide into numerous branches, somewhat like a tree: these are sent off from their trunks at different angles; generally at an acute angle, as in the extremities, but sometimes at a right angle, as in the intercostal or renal arte- ries, or, like the superior intercostals, at an obtuse angle ; and, at the place of the division, a projection may be observed on the inside of the artery, formed by the internal coat. If the angle at which the branch is sent off be a right angle, the edge is circtdar ; but when the angle is acute, there is a sharp pro- jection of a semicircular shape. In general, the arteries take the shortest road: thus less force is required. There are, however, some exceptions to the above observation ; as in the case of the arteries of the brain.