463 OF THE SENSE OF TASTE. be entertained that the papillae become more tense, yet I own I have not distinctly remarked them erected, upon the appli- cation of a savoury substance. Perhaps some peculiar tastes affect one set of the papillae more than another; as some substances make a much deeper impression upon the point, than upon the middle or root of the tongue ; while, on the other hand, we seem to perceive the taste of other substances most distinctly upon the back part of the tongue. Perhaps we judge better of die taste of substances, by their affecting differently all the four sets of papillae. Whilst we are chewing our food, and when any savoury dish is pre- sented to us, a larger quantity of saliva is secreted than usual; hence, the mouth is said “ to water” in common language. The palate is not insensible to the taste of different sub- stances. Blumenbach has described the case of a man who was born without a tongue; he could, notwithstanding this defect, distinguish the taste of solutions of salts, sugar, and aloes, rubbed on his palate, and expressed, by writing, the taste of each. Though the standard of taste of all individuals be not equally high, yet there is a general accordance as to those bodies which convey the more agreeable or more disagree- able impressions. At the same time it must be acknowledged, that there are some individuals who have an unconquerable aversion to some kinds of food, which are highly relished by the generality of mankind. This aversion may be original, but it is much more frequently acquired by a surfeit, or by disease. As to the cause of the variety in the taste of different individuals, no satisfactory explanation can be given. It probably may de- pend upon education, upon habit, upon the different degrees of solubility of different substances in the saliva, and also in part upon a greater or less degree of nervous sensibility, for it cannot depend, aa the epicureans supposed, upon the geo- metrical figure of the sapid corpuscles. The influence of habit upon this sense is very striking: many substances which were at first very disagreable, and.