OF THE NERVES. 315 Thus, in monsters born without a head, the spinal cord and nerves are found to be as large as usual *■ In children (says my Father) delivered at the full time, plump and well formed in their trunk and limbs, I have ob- served the substance which supplied the place of the brain not more bulky than a small nut, and instead of containing a white medullary substance, it was of a red colour, resembling a clot of blood; and small cords, occupying the place of the optic nerves, were likewise of a red colour. Yet the spinal marrow, and all the nerves from it had the ordinary size and appearance. In a monstrous kitten with two bodies, and the appear- ance of one head, I found the spinal marrow of one of the bodies connected with a brain and cerebellum of the common size and shape. But the spinal marrow of the other body, though equally large, had only a small button of medullary substance at its upper end, without a suitable brain or cere- bellum. Lastly, as has been above stated, many of the inferior ani- mals are provided with nerves but destitute of brain. From these facts, it may be inferred, that there is an energy in the nerves, independent of that of the brain. The nerves of the higher orders of animals are connected with a brain or spinal cord, by a number of small threads; but in the lower animals, there is merely a sort of nervous cir- cle near to the head, from which nerves are dispersed all over the body, or there is a double cord, which proceeds from the one extremity of the animal to the other, from which the nerves issue out in a transverse direction. The nerves generally come off in pairs. The nerves are cords of a cylindrical form, which divide into branches which are sent off at different angles generally at an acute angle ; hence anatomists have talked of the crow- foot division of the nerves. The branches of the nerves do not always diminish in thickness, in their progress to their destination. Some of the * Vide Monro, Edin. Phil. Trans, vol. iii.