OF THE TESTES. 181 testicle do not exceed the ,$„th part of an inch in diameter; and, when filled with mercury, the T$cth Part an U1C^' The convoluted seminiferous tubes are cylinders, and do not join into trunks like the ducts of other glands, but pass into the rete testis at the back of the testis, wheie the epidy- dimis is joined to it. My Father has calculated, that the testis consists of 62,500 tubes, supposing each to be one inch long; and that if the tubes were united, they would be 5208 feet° and 4 inches long. The epidydimis is proportionally larger in the foetus than in the adult. The ducts which come out from the testicle communicate, or there is a Rete Testis; the several tubes are joined by cross branches, one running into the other, in an irregular and un- certain manner. On account of the small size of the tubes of the testicle, it is extremely difficult to speak decidedly as to their structure. To the touch they are firm, and then- coats are of considerable toughness, as is evident by then- supporting a considerable column of mercury ; and it is pro- bable that they are endowed with a muscular power, though the muscular fibres be not evident to the naked eye. In proof of the muscular power of the seminiferous tubes, At may be observed, that the testes swell when the vas defe- rens is irritated ; and that, in the dog, as the vesiculm semi- nales are awanting, the semen, during coition, is brought from the testes. The semen passes from the body of the testicle to the epidydimus, by twelve or fourteen straight tubes, called Vasa Efferentia. My Father discovered, that the greater part of the epidydi- mis consists of a single tube; in proof of which he has ob- served *: “ Quapropter, ut, de ejus fabrica, ex facili et certo certius constaret, sequentia experimenta prius exposueram *f*.; nempe si, inter infundendum mercurium, ulke epidydimidis parti, prater caput ejus, vas crepuerit, vel si unum tantum vas vinculo constrinxerimus, nos frustra, ultra rupturam aut vincturam, mercurium propellere conari. Vel, si epidydimi- * Vide his Dissert. Med. Inaug. de Testibus, p. 31. + Edin. Fhys. Essays, vol. i. art. 16.