126 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMV. kidney, somewhat in form like to a horse’s shoe ; and with its concavity directed towards t/ie diaphragm. In a few instances there have been three kidneys, and this malconformation did not derange the function of the kidney. The kidneys some- times are placed in the pelvis. In a specimen preserved in the Museum, both kidneys lay in the pelvis: the right one lay within the true pelvis, and the left was placed at the side of the pelvis; and what was remarkable, both glandulm renales were in their usual situations, and at a distance from the kidneys. Mr Bryce had occasion to examine the body of a boy, whose right kidney jay in the situation of the caput cae- cum coli; and, during life, was supposed to be a tumour or ball in that part of the intestinal canal. The form of the kidneys is peculiar, and different in dif- ferent animals, and even in the same animal at different pe- riods of life. Thus the kidney of the bear consists of a con- geries of small kidneys ; and the kidney of the human foetus is rounder and shorter than that of the adult, and composed of several lobes. The kidney of the adult is somewhat like an egg, which is a little flattened, with the larger end upwards: both extremities are bent inwards towards the spine, and in length they are generally about five or six inches. The size of the kidney is proportionally greater in children than in the adult; and it consists of lobes, the number of which cor- responds with that of the papillae of the adult. It sometimes happens, that the kidneys of the adult 'are ta- bulated like those of the foetus. I lately had occasion to see an instance, in which both kidneys of a man afflicted by a disease of the urinary organs, were at least twice as tang as in the sound state; both kidneys were tabulated, and the size of these lobules was exactly proportioned to the unnatural size of the kidney. The papillae of these kidneys had also at- tained an unnatural size, but preserved their usual conical form. The kidneys are imbedded in a considerable quantity of fat, which is lodged in loose cellular texture : this has sometimes been called the Tunica adiposa of the kidney. The fat around the kidney is of a finer consistence and harder than in other