ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 300 strings, and lies upon a flat portion of the thigh-bone between its condyles. It is covered by the corresponding vein and popliteal nerve; the latter lies most superficially. There are five branches of the popliteal artery, called its articular branches, three of which are placed on the inner, and two on the outer side of the knee-joint. These branches anastomose with each other, and with the branches of the ar- teria profunda femoris, and also with those of the superficial femoral artery. The first branch of the popliteal artery ascends from the ham towards the inner and lower part of the thigh, and is lost in the vastus internus muscle, by which it is covered : it sends small branches to the capsular ligament of the joint, and it anastomoses with the other articular arteries, and with the branches of the superficial femoral. The second branch, called Superior Internal Articular Artery, descends to the inner condyle of the thigh-bone, and anastomoses with the external articular artery. This artery afterwards divides into two branches; one of which passes over the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, and assists in forming a net-work of bloodvessels which covers the patella; a still smaller branch passes on the edge of the internal semilunar cartilage, and enters the cavity of the knee- joint. The deeper-seated branch passes along the capsular liga- ment, and divides into a number of small arteries, which en- ter the internal condyle of the thigh. The Inferior Internal Articular Artery ascends to the in- ner condyle of the thigh-bone, under the internal lateral liga- ment, to the lower part of the knee-pan, and is covered by the tendinous aponeurosis of the semimembranosus, sartorius, and semitendinosus muscles; and it anastomoses with the pre- ceding artery. There are also two external articular arteries, a superior and an inferior, derived from the popliteal artery : the former supplies the muscles in the vicinity of the outer condyle of the thigh-bone and the external lateral ligament; the latter, which, at its origin, is covered by the gastrocnemius muscle, becomes