ELEMENTS OF ANATOM V. M4 commonly partial, and immediately around the extravasated blood, and in the corpora striata. When the softening is on the surface, the convolutions of the brain are by no means obvious. The softened portion of the brain often assumes a dirty green or dirty yellow colour, and this softened state is often combined with the growth of a number of small exostoses from the inner table of the skull, which is as rou<rh as a file. On the other hand, the brain sometimes attains an unna- tural and partial degree of hardness and solidity. This has been sometimes observed in the brain of idiots, but, in such, it is by no means a constant appearance. The hardened por- tion of the brain looks like an inorganic substance; no ves- sels can be seen in it. After birth the brain undergoes a striking change in the proportion and consistence of its several component parts, and the evolution of the mental faculties has been stated by Mr Lawrence to correspond with them. The proportional size of the brain, in respect to the spinal cord, is different in different animals. In man the brain bears a larger proportion to the spinal cord than in any other animal, and the spinal marrow very much exceeds in bulk any of the nerves connected with it; but the spinal marrow of the horse and ox is much larger in proportion to the brain ; and in fishes, the transverse diameter of the brain scarcely exceeds that of the spinal marrow. The acuteness of the intellectual faculties probably depends on the bulk of the brain; and the force and rapidity of voluntary motion of animals, seem connected with the proportional size of the nerves distributed to the organs of sense. In those animals which are superior to man in strength, the nerves are larger ; and in the classes of fishes and insects, which are remarkable for the acuteness of their feeling, and the rapidity of their movements, the nerves of the limbs are proportionally much larger than in the human body. The higher orders of animals have the same number oi senses as man ; but many of the inferior animals are destitute of some of these.