OF THE NAILS. 479 plants tom up by the roots are destroyed, which does not hap- pen to nails. The nails consist of inspissated albumen, and contain a small proportion of phosphat of lime. The nails, as organs of apprehension, are of great use, and assist us in picking up small bodies. Of the Corpus Mucosum or Rete Mucosum. The corpus mucosum forms the second layer of the skin. The corpus mucosum, which is situated under the cuticle, gives colour to the skin, and it has been so named, as it is of a soft mucous nature. Being perforated by the hairs, and by many vessels, it has sometimes been named rete mucosum. The corpus mucosum covers every part of the true skin, excepting under the nails, and connects it to the cuticle. Halleb, Camper, Blitmenbach, and other anatomists, entertain doubts as to the existence of the corpus mucosum in persons with a fair complexion. I confess it cannot be shewn very distinctly excepting in the Negro: it is not like a net-work or web of any description, nor is it so coherent as mucus : it is a substance very diffusible in water. If the corpus mucosum does not exist, it is very difficult to explain the different shades of colour of the same person at different seasons of the year, the difference in the complexion of the ploughman, and the miner, and the imme- diate formation of a white spot upon the Negro’s skin, by the application of a blister. These facts in my mind are of easy explanation, if the existence of the corpus mucosum be ad- mitted, but on any other ground they are inexplicable. The corpus mucosum gives colour to the skin, by shining through the semitransparent cuticle, and being different in its shade, gives the variety in the complexions of different nations. The corpus mucosum is not of an uniform thickness : hence the palms of the hands and soles of the feet of the Negro are not of so dark a colour as the rest of his body ; and even in individuals of the same nation, it is darker in some parts of the body than in others, as in the arm-pits and eye-lids.