ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 298 foie pait of the thigh. No vessels capable of receiving coarse injection could be traced between the obturator, ischiatic, and arteria profunda femoris. Since my “ Outlines of Anatomy” were published, I have met with a distribution of the arteries, which, as far as I know, has not been described. A branch, about the size of a writing pen, was sent off from the femoral artery immediately after its exit from the pelvis: this branch ran down in a di- rection paralel to that of the femoral for the space of three inches; then passed along the inner side of the rectus cruris for some way, and afterwards divided into small branches, which dipped into the substance of that muscle. The inter- nal and external circumflex and arteria profunda femoris were sent off as usual. There are four ■perforating arteries, derived from the pro- funda femoris. The first perforating artery arises below the trochanter ma- jor ; and, after having passed through the adductor muscle, ap- pears on the back thigh, about two inches below the quadra- tic femoris, and divides into two branches; one of which runs upwards to the great trochanter, is subdivided into small branches upon the gluteus maximus muscle, and anastomoses with the smaller branches of the gluteal artery. The other branch passes into the substance of the vastus externus mus- cle, and anastomoses with the smaller ramifications of the ex- ternal circumflex artery. Dr Ryan made for me a very beautiful preparation of the arteries above described, in which the superior branch of the profunda ascended upon the posterior part of the long head of the biceps flexor cruris, and divided into two small branches, which inosculate with two similar branches of the ischiatic ar- tery, so that, upon the above mentioned muscle, an arterial circle is formed by the conjoined branches of the ischiatic and superior perforating branch of the profunda femoris. In this preparation, there was another arterial circle formed upon the dorsum of the os ilium, immediately above the ace-