249 OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. the carotid artery, par vagum, and internal jugular vein. He drew the artery towards the windpipe, and thus laid bare the subclavian artery for half an inch, which was found diseased : therefore, bv a round-edged knife being passed a little lower behind the breast-bone, he passed a silk thread around the arteria innominata, which did not occasion any unpleasant sen- sation : thus the tumour was reduced one-third of its size. On the 26th day after the operation the patient died. Of the Subclavian Arteries. The right subclavian takes its rise in common with the right carotid, and crosses over the windpipe, and then gets to the axilla; but the left, and smaller branch, is directed somewhat downwards to the axilla. These arteries pass under the collar bones, over the hori- zontal flat upper surface of the first ribs, and transversely be- tween the anterior and middle scaleni muscles. The left subclavian artery, in its course to the axilla, is found behind the sternal extremity of the sterno-mastoid mus- cle, covered by the subclavian vein, and the par vagum; and the lower cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve lies be- hind it. The recurrent nerve passes around the right subclavian artery in its course to the larynx, and the par vagum passes on the left side, around the arch of the aorta. The right sub- clavian artery has thicker coats than the left, and the pulse is rather stronger in the right than in the left arm. The right subclavian and right carotid arteries in some in- dividuals take their origin separately from the arch of the aorta. In my Thesis, I have described an instance, in which the subclavian artery took its origin from the top of the de- scending aorta; and, instead of passing upwards along the front of the windpipe, passed between it and the gullet. An aneurism of the subclavian artery may be mistaken for the same disease of the aorta. I was consulted, along with the late Hr Wardrope and the late Mr F vfe, by a gentleman from Glasgow, about the na- ture of whose case some difference of opinion at first prevailed.