OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. 415 * Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol, i. p. 78. or dog, if the eye be examined immediately after the animal is killed. Much pains has been taken to discover the intimate struc- ture of the. crystalline lens. J If the lens be dried, it is then composed of a number of 'layers, which may be readily separated from each other. These layers are made up of fine fibres, like those of spun : glass, which describe a different course, in different parts of the human lens, and a different course in the lenses of different animals. Leeuwenh(eck has published a figure representing the course of these fibres; and also Dr Yocjng, who has endea- voured to prove these fibres muscular, and also that the eye accommodates itself to distant objects, by the increase of the . convexity which that muscularity produces. Upon this opinion. Dr Brewster has most justly remarked, “ When we consi- der that the fibres are lines of contrary flexure, we venture to say, that no sagacity is capable of predicting the actual effect which would arise from their contraction. One thing only is certain, that the fibres of the outer laminae would, in the pro- < cess of contraction, press upon those of the inner laminae, and destroy that compound gradation of density by which the aberration of sphericity is so finely corrected It has been supposed that? by means of a very small muscle which Sir Everard Home affirms he discovered, the eye is adapted to objects of different distances. He says, “ Having discovered a muscle arising from the capsule of the vitreous humour, and inserted into the capsule of the lens, whose fibres are of an inch long, and knowing, from other observations, that muscular fibres can contract to one- half of their length, I cannot doubt of the lens being moved ■ through that space by this muscle; and, when Mr Dollond, who is more competent than most other men, by his know- ledge of optical instruments, to give an opinion on the sub- ject, assures me that, according to his judgment, such a change of place in the lens is sufficient to account for the ad-