OF THE NERVES OF THE HEAD. 48? number of experiments have been lately performed upon it in London by Mr Majendie, which afforded some very pe- culiar results, it may not be improper to give an account of a singular preparation in which this ganglion was much affect- ed, and also of the symptoms which preceded the death of the patient. I am indebted for the preparation, and also for the history of the case, to Dr Sanders. “ Serous effusion was copious on the surfaces of both cere- brum and cerebellum, in all the ventricles, and very copious in the cerebellic cavity of the skull. Cerebral substance unusually soft. On raising the cerebrum from before backwards, there appeared extending from the upper edge of the left pars pe- trosa, a mass separate from, but closely resembling the brain, or rather the cerebellum; it was minutely convoluted, and cineritious externally, and connected internally by ramifica- tions from a medullary centre. It was pyriform ; its round head, of about one three-fourths inch in diameter, pressed on the anterior surface of the tuber annulare, and had there formed a kind of glenoid cavity. On laying open the dura mater, the tumour seemed to be continuous ivith the Gasse- rian ganglion; which ganglion was hard, much enlarged, flat- tened, and somewhat oval; about one one-half inch long; three-fourths of an inch broad, and half an inch thick; its longest diameter was towards the foramen lacerum. The vessels composing the circle of Willis, and those immediately connected with it, were distended with dark blood, and the choroid plexus was very turgid, but of a dull red colour; and of this latter appearance was the network of vessels surround- ing the crura cerebri, tuber, and medulla oblongata. “ The patient had, for months, been occasionally seized with headach, confusion of sight, and disorder of stomach, succeeded by vomiting. These attacks were ascribed to ine- briation. At length he was struck with apoplexy. He was relieved by the usual means; his speech returned in some de- gree, but neither his vision, nor the power of volition, in the trunk and extremities. He had intervals, when the natural functions proceeded regularly; but always after two or three days, there suddenly came on palpitation, quick and irregu-