424 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The fifth pair, near to its connection, with the parts above named, sometimes consists of a single cord, or sometimes of se- veral fasciculi, which are collected into a single nerve, and co- vered by the arachnoid coat, towards the upper angle of the pars petrosa of the temporal bone, a little below the tentorium cerebello-supercxtensum. The nerve then swells out into a plexus of a semilunar shape, which is placed close by the outer side of the sinus cavernosus, in a doubling of the dura mater. This plexus has sometimes been called gasserian gan- glion, and consists of fifty fasciculi. According to Meckel and Neubatjer, it consists of be- tween forty-two and sixty fasciculi, and some authors have enumerated a greater number. I have called the swelling a plexus rather than a ganglion, the name applied to it by a number of anatomists, as it is more like to a plexus than a ganglion, to which it bears no resemblance in figure or struc- ture. Vieussens and Winslow have described nerves as pass- ing from the plexus into the dura mater, but Meckel, who examined this point with great attention, has denied the exist- ence of such nerves. There are three large nerves derived from this plexus; first, the uppermost or anterior is the ophthalmic: the second, which is about three lines broad, has been called the supe- rior mamillary, as its branches are distributed chiefly upon the upper jaw; the third, which is the largest and lowest branch, has been called the inferior maxillary, as it sup- plies the under jaw, teeth and muscles fixed into the under jaw. The first, or ophthalmic branch, passes forwards and up- wards, in the vicinity of the sixth pair, within the cavernous sinus, and also near to the fourth pair, from which it is se- parated only by a thin lamina of dura mater: it then passes through the foramen lacerum of the sphenoid bone. This nerve then divides into three branches, called the Frontal, Nasal, and Lacrymal. The frontal, or the largest branch, is the continuation of the