OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. 153 The anterior part of the bladder is also, on some occasions, deficient; so that the posterior part of it has formed a tumour above the ossa pubis. I have seen three instances of such malconformation. In the hypogastric region there was a red rounded tumour, of an irregular form, the surface of which was constantly kept moist by a fluid which was discharged upon its surface from two orifices, the orifices of the ureters, into which a probe might be passed to the depth of several inches. Beneath the tumour, there was a sort of penis, about an inch long, which was grooved on its upper surface, and which terminated in the glans, which was covered by a pre- puce. One of the individuals had attained his 40th year, and was in the habit of exhibiting himself. He had testes of the usual figure and size. His case has been particularly de- scribed by Professor Bonn, and Doctor Baillie has described a similar case. Of the Coats of the Bladder of Urine. The bladder is a musculo-membranaceous receptacle of urine, consisting of four coats of different structure ; the ex- ternal coat derived from the peritoneum, which gives but a partial covering to the bladder,—a muscular coat,—acellular coat,—and an internal mucous lining. The peritonaeum, which is reflected from the pubis, or, in the distended state, from the parietes of the abdomen, covers only the upper and back part of the bladder of the adult, and only a small portion of the front and upper part of the blad- der of the foetus. It is reflected from the bladder to the fore part of the rectum of the male, and the uterus of the fe- male ; and, as it passes from the bladder, there are folds at the sides of that organ, which have been called by some ana- tomists, the Posterior Ligaments of the Bladder. It is of much moment that the surgeon should possess a distinct idea as to the place the peritonaeum is reflected off from the parietes of the abdomen, and from the bladder to the rectum of the male. It may be remarked, that there is great variety as to the