OF THE SPERMATIC ARTERIES. 283 and follow somewhat of a tortuous course, towards the pelvis, behind the peritonaeum. The spermatic arteries join the corresponding vein on the surface of the psoas muscle. The spermatic arteries of the female are distributed upon the ovaria, uterus, and Fallopian tubes: they follow a tor- tuous course; and those of the uterus anastomose very freely with the uterine hypogastric arteries. The first branches given off are those which are distributed on the fat around the kidneys and ureters, the colon, and the glands of the loins. The spermatic arteries of the male enter the upper aperture of the inguinal canal, where they are joined by the vasa deferentia: they follow the course of the inguinal canal; and, before reaching the testes, give off four or five branches, which are distributed upon the epidydimus and body of the testicle. The spermatic arteries of the bull follow a very tortuous and long route before reaching the tes- ticle, which must certainly, in some manner, alter the nature of the semen. In removing a diseased testicle, before dividing the spermatic cord, it was the practice of the older surgeons, with the view of stopping the bleeding from the branches of the Spermatic Ar- teries, to pass a ligature around the spermactic cord, which gives the most excruciating pain to the patient. Therefore, mo- dern surgeons use no such broad ligature, but hold the portion of the divided cord between the finger and thumb of the left hand, and then dissect out the diseased testis; that being done, they take up the branches of the Spermatic Artery separately. This should be done by the operator himself, because, in giving the divided portion of the cord to an assistant, it may, by the action of the cremaster muscle, be drawn within the under abdominal aperture, and the patient may die from bleeding; and this may readily happen, when the cord has been di- vided very near to the under abdominal aperture. Desault adopted a peculiar method of operating, when the disease extends high up in the spermatic cord. He dissected out the diseased testis, in the first place, from the scrotum ; secured the bleeding vessels by ligatures ; then pulled down