OF TIIE NERVES OF THE BLOODVESSELS. 57 There are other circumstances which afford strong evidence of the arteries being supplied with nerves. When the action of the arteries is increased, the nerves are also affected ; thus, by passions of the mind, palpitation is in- duced. Voluptuous ideas determine the blood to the penis, and produce erection: Anger impels the blood into the smaller arteries, and produces redness of the face. Excessive grief or joy promotes the flow of tears, and im- pels the blood into the finer vessels of the skin. An unusual flow of blood to a part increases its sensibility ; as in an inflamed eye, or when the penis or clitoris are erected. Inflammation renders the sense of touch more acute. Grief impedes digestion, and diminishes the secretion of the gastric juice: On the other hand, a loaded stomach blunts sensibility, and produces sleep. Fear also augments the secretion of the mucus of the intes- tines, and causes diarrhoea. The influence of the nei’ves upon the arteries is evident. By throwing a ligature upon a nerve, the quantity of the fluid secreted by the gland is diminished. Nuck found, that the division of the nerves leading to the salivary glands diminished the usual quantity of saliva. An experiment which my Father performed, and of which an account is published in the Edinburgh Philosophical and Literary Essays, adds an additional illustration of the sympa- * thy which exists betwixt the arteries and nerves. He found, that, upon pouring a solution of opium under the skin of the thigh and leg of a living frog, not only the leg itself was very soon affected, but also the most distant organs of ihe body, by a sympathy of the nerves; but when he cut out the heart, or tied up or cut across the bloodvessels of the thigh, the distant parts of the body were not affected; hence the cutting out the heart, and throwing ligatures upon the arteries, prevented the nerves from propagating their influence by sympathy ; and this also proves the sympathy between the arterial and nervous systems.