71 OF THE LUNGS. The lungs occupy the larger share of the chest, and corres- pond with it in figure; they are nearly conical in point of form, the basis of which is undermost; they are convex before, behind, and laterally ; and somewhat flattened on the side next to the mediastinum anterius, and heart, and concave where they are applied to the convex surface of the diaphragm. The lungs descend much lower behind than before ; they are nearly as low as the 12th rib, and consequently are more liable to be wounded behind than before. The lungs of the right and left sides are completely disjoined by the mediasti- num arterius, and heart; and, therefore, the functions of the lungs of the one side are wholly independent of those of the other, and life may be continued by the lungs of one side only. Branches of the windpipe, bloodvessels, nerves, and absorbents, are common to both lungs. On the surface of the lungs there are a number of pale coloured lines, which de- fine the smaller lobules of the lungs. The lungs are divided by fissures, into lobes, which vary in depth, between which there is a large quantity of cellu- lar substance; and these lobes are subdivided into lobules, be- tween which there is also cellular substance. On the right side there are generally three great lobes, and on the left two lobes only ; but I have also frequently seen three great lobs on each side; and in one instance, I met with five lobes on one side. In consequence of inflammation, the lobes of the lungs of- ten adhere to each other very intimately, so that even the marks of distinction between them are almost wholly oblite- rated. The lungs correspond in form with the sacs of the pleurae in which they are contained, and hence those of the right side are broader and shorter than those of the leftside,* on account of the diaphragm of the right side being more convex than that of the left. The lungs being compressible, may lose considerably of their bulk, when air, water, or puru- lent matter, has been effused into the sacs of the pleurae, or v/hcn the heart or liver have attained an extraordinary bulk. Vide Engravings of the Thorax and Abdominal Viscera published by me in 1814.