OP THE UTERUS OR WOMB. 216 mals. They are large In the cow, but small in those animals that have several young at the same litter. The corpora lutea are of an oval or circular form, and when divided, are found to be hollow in the centre, and to be of a yellowish-brown colour; and, according to the preceding obser- vations, they exist before impregnation, and, indeed, previ- ously to puberty, and are the nidus in which the ovum is formed. These ovula vary much as to size: in general, they are about, the bulk of a millet seed, or about 2 lines and a-half in diameter. Different anatomists have published very opposite state- ments as to the number of ovula found in the ovaria. They differ, I believe, in different .vomen, and even in the diffe- rent ovaria of the same woman. But in the ovaria of old women there are no ovula, no yellow spots, or corpora lutea, as they have been called. These have been removed by ab- sorption. Instead of ovula in old age, we meet with hard fi- brous looking substances of a greyish colour, which are united to each other by a dense cellular substance. The ovaria receive their blood from the spermatic arteries, which describe a tortuous course before entering these sub- stances. The nerves of the ovaria are derived from the renal plex- uses. It is a remarkable circumstance, that teeth and hair have sometimes been found in the ovaria of virgins. Of the Uterus or Womb. The womb is a hollow bowel, destined to receive the rudi- ment of the ovum from the ovaria, and to retain and nourish the foetus, until it be capable of an independent existence. The womb is placed between the bladder of urine and in- testinum curvum; the broader part is directed backwards, and the neck forwards; it is loosely connected with the sides of the pelvis by ligaments and cellular substance. In a few cases, two uteri have been found with correspond- ing vaginae, or the womb has been divided by a longitudinal partition into two cavities. In a few cases, the womb has been