ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 114 raunication between the auricles of the heart, called the Fora- men ovale, and by a duct between the pulmonary artery and aorta, called the Canalis arteriosus. The foramen ovale is nearly equal in size to the mouth of the vena cava inferior; it is not a direct, but an oblique passage, and, therefore, when it is pressed on each side, by the blood of each auricle, this passage is readily obliterated by the agglutination of its parts. Most authors have described the Eustachian valve, placed at the opening of the vena cava inferior, as being more pen- feet and larger in the foetus than in the adult; but I have met with many exceptions to that observation, and have also remarked, that where the auricle of the adult is unnaturally expanded, the same happens to the Eustachian valve. The pulmonary artery of the foetus, divides into three • branches of unequal size; the largest, called Ductus arterio- sus, passes obliquely downwards, and joins the thoracic aorta. By the foramen ovale, and ductus arteriosus, a consider- able proportion of the blood is diverted from the lungs : the blood is thereby impelled, with greater force, into the aorta, by the contraction of the heart; and hence the blood more readily reaches the placenta, by the medium of the um- bilical arteries. If the foramen ovale, or canalis arteriosus, had been awant- ing, the right and left sides of the heart must have given pas- sage to unequal quantities of blood. The blood of the foetus is circulated in the following man- ner. The arteries called Umbilical, which take their rise from the posterior iliac, ascend at the sides of the bladder, and pass through the navel, and being continued along the navel-string, or umbilical cord, in which they describe, in their progress, turns like those of a cork-screw, are ultimately divided into a great many branches, which are distributed through the after- birth or 'placenta. The placenta serves to the foetus the same office as the lungs to the adult. Professor Jeffrey of Glasgow made a number of obser-