401 OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. and appears as a grey-coloured ring. This ligament connects the choroid coat and margin of the iris to the sclerotic coat. Dr Knox has endeavoured to prove that the ciliary liga- ment is a distinct muscle. A triangular canal has been de- scribed by Fontana, Simmering, and Murray, as running along this ciliary ligament, and as being partly formed by the Groove at the edges of the cornea and sclerotic coat. The ciliary circle and rocts of the ciliary processes are firmly glued to the anterior part of the retina, almost as far as to its termination or insertion in the outer edge of the lens. Of the Ciliary Processes. The ciliary processes are mere doublings of the choroid coat, the extremities of which hang loose in the aqueous hu- mour, and are about sixty in number. The ciliary processes are chiefly composed of a plexus of vessels ; they are not mus- cular, and there is no reason to suppose that they compress the lens. These processes have no direct connection with the lens. My Father has remarked : “ Zinn, who observed that the terminations of the ciliary processes were not connected with the lens, concluded, therefore, that the inner parts of the ciliary processes were inserted into the capsule of the vitreous humour; but I have already observed, that the anterior part of the retina reaches to the edge of the lens, or intervenes between the ciliary processes and vitreous humours. It ap- pears, therefore, that the ciliary processes do not form a com- plete septum between the aqueous and vitreous humours.” Of the Optic Nerves and Retina. The optic nerves, to the naked eye, have externally less of a fibrous appearance, and are whiter, than the other nerves; but, when divided transversely, and examined by a magnify- h>g glass, their component fasciculi become obvious: they are then seen to be composed of an opaque and transparent part, which latter is the gelatinous substance between the fasciculi. 1 he optic nerves are covered by the dura and pia mater. I met with a very striking proof of the intermixture of the VOL. II. r r