193 OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. ing purposes. In the Is* place. For making gentle pressure by its posterior part, upon the ducts common to the rasa de- ferentia, and vesiculse seminales, when the bladder is distend- ed ; and especially when wre are endeavouring to empty it, in order to prevent the pressure of the distended bladder upon the vesiculae seminales, from occasioning the discharge of the semen into the urethra. Qd, The anterior part of this protuberance seems to me, as it did to Mr John Hunter, to serve also, in some degree, as a valve, to prevent the too ready discharge of the urine. The third lobe, when sound, is not larger than a small pea ; but in consequence of disease, it often attains a large size, and, projecting into the bladder, proves an impediment to the exit of the urine, by forming a sort of valve over the orifice of the urethra; and, in this case, the greater the action of the muscular fibres of the bladder, the greater the impediment to the exit of the urine *. At the under part of the neck of the bladder, there is a space between the entrance of the ureters and urethra, which is nearly equilateral. This has been called Trigone. It is elevated somewhat above the level of the inner surface of the bladder, especially between the orifices of the ureters. The mucous membrane that lines this part of the bladder is thin- ner, more sensible, and paler in colour, than that of any other part of the bladder ; and, under it, there is a plexus of veins, which was discovered by the late Mr Wilson of London, and which he has particularly described in his book on the urinary organs. W hen the free egress of the urine is impeded, the trigone is enlarged, especially between the orifices of the ureters, ow- ing to the enlargement of the muscular fibres ; and it forms a well-defined ridge, behind which a calculus is sometimes lodged. Sir E. Home observes, “ The enlargement of the third lobe often keeps pace ..ith that of the lateral lobes, so that there is no passage either on the one side or the other. The middle line of the urethra is thnt, in which a cathetcr will most readily come at the bladder.” VOL. If. N