ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 250 After having bent the patient’s head forwards, a tumour, which had a distinct pulsation, synchronous with that of the heart, was distinctly perceived, placed upon the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which could be very much reduced in size by pressure; and on the pressure being removed, the tumour regained its former bulk. The pulsa- tions of the common carotid artery on the same side, were more feeble than those of the opposite side. We gave it as our opinion, that there was not room for any operation. He was advised to live low, to avoid violent exercise, and every cause tending to accelerate the flow of blood. The tumour became rather larger, and created some de- gree of difficulty in swallowing. The patient lingered on for . some time; the tumour gradually increased in size, and he died at length exhausted. I had occasion to examine the parts after death. There was an aneurism in the arch of the aorta, including the arteria in- nominata. The tumour ascended above the breast-bone, and pressed the carotid artery against the spine and the origin of the subclavian artery, and displaced the windpipe. The following arteries are derived from the subclavian : The internal mammary takes its rise from the inferior part of the trunk of the subclavian, opposite to the first rib; it passes behind the collar-bone, where it is joined to the breast-bone; it descends between the pleura and cartilages of the true rib, and between the sterno-costalis and intercos- tal muscles. The intercostal mammary artery gives branches to the thymus gland, a branch to the pericardium, a branch which accompanies the phrenic nerve, and is spent upon the diaphragm, and anastomoses with a small branch of the tho- racic aorta, which also supplies the diaphragm. The internal mammary artery also gives branches to the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and intercostal muscles, and to the mediastinum anterius. This artery then emerges from the thorax under the cartilage of the seventh rib; and on the back part of the rectus muscle of the abdomen, it divides into