608 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The umbilical cord is not attached exactly to the centre of the placenta, but rather nearer to its edge; and from the um- bilical cord, the vessels spread out upon the surface of the placenta, from which they pass into its substance. The large umbilical bloodvessels are disposed on that part of the placenta which is next the child ; and on the side next the uterus, bloodvessels may be observed passing between the placenta and uterus. The placenta, when divided, seems to be composed chiefly of bloodvessels, which are distributed through it in all direc- tions. By filling the vessels of the placenta, it becomes about two inches thick ; and if the injection be thrown into the arteries of the mother, called Uterine, the injection fills only one-half of the placenta, as that organ consists of two distinct parts, which do not communicate with each other, and between which, are cells that are filled by throwing a penetrating injec- tion into the arteries or veins of the uterus. These foetal and maternal parts of the placenta may be se- parated from each other, by steeping it for some time in water, until a slight degree of putrefaction has begun. The structure of these distinct parts is not precisely the same; the portion called foetal, bears a strong resemblance to the lungs, and the arteries of that part terminate in the veins ; but in the maternal part, cells are said to be interposed be- tween the smaller ramifications of the arteries and veins, and the cells of the whole placenta freely communicate with each other. In the case of twins, there are sometimes two placentae, each of which is as large as when there is one child only. These are united only by the membranes, and by small ves- sels, which cannot be filled by the coarse injection. But, in other instances of twins, the two placentae resemble one placenta, divided into two parts by the reflected mem- branes. Dr Reid has in his possession a specimen, in which the vessels of the umbilical cord divide into branches upon the membranes, before they reach the placenta. The branches of the umbilical arteries distributed on the