ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 380 The case published by Mr Lawrence *, of a child born without a brain, that lived for four days, is strong evidence of the importance of the medulla oblongata. We are informed, that the spinal cord was continued about an inch above the foramen magnum ; and as all the nerves of the head from the fifth to the ninth pair were connected with this tumour, it was undoubtedly a part of the medulla oblongata. Fodere' has endeavoured to prove, that pressure on the brain or cere- bellum, causes stupor or apoplexy, from its influence upon the medulla oblongata ; for when the brain or cerebellum are com- pressed laterally no such effects follow. In the course of my description of the brain and cerebel- lum, I have introduced a few observations relative to the functions and organic derangements of particular parts of these very important organs, rather with the view of exciting further inquiry, than from a conviction of our having as yet arrived at a distinct knowledge of their several functions. I conceive, that there is so great a connection, and so strik- ing a sympathy, between the contiguous parts of the brain and cerebellum, and also between the distant parts of these or- gans, that the partial removal of a part of the brain cannot disclose its particular function; the violence done may pro- duce a general or indirect, as well as a specific or direct ef- fect. The above circumstance may account for the different ef- fects which have been observed to result from organic de- rangements of the brain or cerebellum. I have now for twenty years devoted much attention to this department of morbid anatomy, have carefully compared the symptoms which preceded death, with the appearances which presented themselves at dissection, but have as yet made but little pro- gress in this difficult investigation. Within these few years Rolando, Le Gallcis, Mr Brodie, Dr Wilson Philip, Mr C. Bell, Ma.tendie, Flourens, Seures and others, have made many experiments upon living animals, but with different results; so that I still hold that « Med. Chir. Trans, of London, vol. v.