OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 363 the body of the fornix ; behind the anterior crura of the fornix and comtnissura anterior cerebri; on the fore part of the join- ing of the choroid plexus of the two lateral ventricles of the brain ; and over the fore part of the third venticle. Hence, at this place, the lateral ventricles of the brain communicate \with each other, and with the third ventricle. This aperture has been very particularly described by my Father, in his book on the Nervous System *. I presume, the reader will be gratified by the subjoined observations, which have not hitherto been published, and which contain my Father’s own description of his discovery of the communication between the lateral ventricles. In the course of these observations, he has made remarks upon the state of that foramen, when water is accumulated within the ventricles of the brain, and upon puncturing these. “ Ali anatomists agree, that there is a communication be- tween the third and fourth ventricles of the brain, and many have alleged, that the two lateral ventricles communicate to- gether, and open into the third. “ But on examining the different descriptions given of these communications, I found them to disagree, and to be without precision; nay, several very accurate anatomists, and of late Dr Haller, doubted, or altogether denied, that any opening could be shown to lead from the one lateral ventricle into the other, directly or through the third ventricle; for which reason I have caused to be delineated, a communication of the late- ral ventricles with each other, and with the third ventricle, which I have demonstrated for fifteen years past (since 1753) in the Anatomical Theatre, and which I observed as follows: “ In 1753, I opened the head of a child about, two years old, who died of internal hydrocephalus. Both sides of the brain • Sff-MMERING, Vic D’azyr, and others, refer to my Father’s book for a de- scription of the communication between the lateral ventricles of the brain. Mo- reau, the editor of the octavo edition of Vicq D’azyr, has observed, tc Les ouver- tures qui etablissent la communication des ventricules lateraux avec le troisieme, sont decrites dans l’ouvrage publie par Monro, cn 1783. Get anatomiste cele- bre en a donne plusieurs dcssins exacts, et il a fait voir combien ces ouverturcs sont augmentees par certaines dispositions morbifiques, ct principalement par les amas d’eau dans les cavites cerebrales,’’