245 OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY. In some eases, there is a larger and a smaller transverse artery of the face. The smaller gives branches to the small salivary gland which lies along the duct of the larger parotid gland. It sometimes happens, that the transverse artery sup- plies those parts of the face which usually receive their blood from the branches of the angular artery ; in that case, it is a vessel of considerable size. 9. The EXTERNAL or SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY is the next considerable branch of the external carotid. It lies im- mediately under the skin. It passes between the jaw and the flap of the cartilage of the external ear. From it the follow- ing branches take their rise : a branch to the parotid gland ; a small branch to the masseter muscle, which anastomoses with the inferior labial artery; and there is a branch which crosses the face in company with the duct of the parotid gland, and communicates with the facial and internal maxillary arteries: a branch from the superficial temporal, enters the meatus au- ditorius externus, and communicates with the exterior auricu- lar. The deep temporal is sent off* behind the condyle of the jaw, and passes under the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. Small branches of this artery, called the anterior auricular, are distributed upon the fore-part of the ear. The superficial temporal, after passing across the zygoma, divides into anterior and 'posterior branches. The anterior supplies the skin and muscles of the fore-part of the head, and anastomoses with the ocular and facial ar- teries. v The posterior branch divides into a number of branches, which supply the back-part of the head, and communicates repeatedly with the branches of the occipital artery. 'Ihat kind of aneurism, called the aneurism by anastomoses, is by no means unfrequent on the head and face. Such tu- mours are of very different sizes : I have sometimes seen them as small as a sixpence, and sometimes covering the greater part of the cheek. I hese tumours consist of a congeries of small arteries and ^eins; and when the tumour is large, it receives blood from