136 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. to powder they are not soluble in alkalies, and scarcely soluble in acids: when burnt, a pure lime, equal to one-third of the concretion, is left, and the oxalic acid is decomposed. This kind of concretion contains a large proportion of ani- mal matter, to which the peculiar hardness of it is owing. Dr J. Davy, whilst engaged in examining the urinary concretions in the Museum of this University remarked, that those composed of oxalic acid were not invariably of a dark brown colour. Some concretions contain silica, but it is a very rare ingre- dient: it was found by Fourckoy in two out of 600 concre- tions. With the alkalies it fuses and forms glass. The fourth class contains those concretions which are com- posed of the muriate of ammonia. Such concretions, when treated with water, are in part dissolved, and what remains, consists of pure uric acid. The matter dissolved is composed of urea, and partly of muriate of ammonia. The fifth class includes such concretions as are composed of cyitic oxydc, a term employed by Dr Wollaston, because hese substances, like an oxide, unite both with acids and alkalies. Such concretions are white, dense and brittle; do not consist of layers, but are composed of an irregularly crystal- lised substance, and have a yellow semitransparency. Is/, This substance dissolves, and combines with acids and alka- lies, and crystallizes with both. It crystallizes with acids, forming slender spiculae, radiated from the centre, which dis- solve readily in water. 9.d, It is precipitated from nitric acid by alcohol. 3d, It does not affect the colour of vegetable blues. 4th. It is insoluble in water, alcohol, and ether. Besides the above substances, urea and animal matter enter into the composition of urinary calculi; the latter of which ce- ments together the other ingredients. In those which con- sist of uric acid, the animal matter consists of albumen mixed with urea ; in those composed of the earthy phosphates, it is composed of albumen and jelly; and in those of the oxalate of lime, of albumen solely.