OF THE URETHRA. 167 This ligament serves as a bond of union between the ossa pubis; and it on many occasions, proves a barrier to the ready introduction of an instrument into the bladder, and to the withdrawing the forceps, in extracting a stone from the blad- der of urine, in the horizontal direction. Beyond the symphysis pubis, the urethra ascends between the crura penis, and fills the groove between the under sur- faces of the corpora cavernosa penis, where it is lodged, in- cluded within its corpus spongiosum, and at length passes through the glans penis, and terminates in a vertical aper- ture, the edges of which are of a red colour. In short, that part of the urethra which is before the sym- physis pubis, forms an arch with the other and deeper por- tion of the urethra, the concavity of which is towards the sym- physis pubis, or it is convex towards the perinaeum. The urethra of an infant is rather more bent in its course than that of the adult; as the bladder is placed higher up in the pelvis, and, according to some authors, constitutes one of the bowels of the abdomen. The urethra is not of an uniform diameter in its whole course. The portion included within the prostate gland is somewhat like a funnel, the broader end of which is next to the bladder of urine. That part of the urethra called the Mem- branous part, is considerably narrower, and nearly cylindri- cal. The urethra is then expanded into an oblong sac, for about two inches, where it passes through the bulb of the urethra ; and from that it is nearly of an uniform diameter, to the root of the glans penis, where it is again expanded into an oblong sac, which has been called by some anatomists, the Fossa na- vicularis, and, at its extremity, it is again contracted. I he narrowest part of the urethra is at the place where the membranous part of it joins the bulb. On account of the irregular diameter of the urethra, it is sometimes difficult to pass the bougie beyond the bulb; be- sides, the inferior part of it is out of the direct course of the urethra; it is considerably under it, so that if the instrument be straight, and pushed forwards in a straight line, the point