ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 266 wound ; or a compress of lint or sponge is put into the bot- tom of the wound, which presses directly upon the orifice of the artery. By the use of the compress, the outward wound sometimes heals, but not that in the artery, and hence the blood escapes into the surrounding parts; or the piece of sponge applied to the orifice of the artery may slip off. Be- sides, the application of a compress impedes the collateral circulation, and proves a cause of swelling of the arm. When a considerable artery has been wounded, the liga- ture is more to be depended upon, and it should be applied as near as is possible to the orifice. Both ends of the wound- ed artery should be secured, as, on account of the free anas- tomoses, it may pass through the lower part of the wounded artery, by which a great deal of blood may be lost. If the ligature be applied at some distance from the wound in the artery, or to the trunk, where a branch has been opened, bleeding may follow, as the blood may flow from the lower end of the artery, or from the upper, through the medium of the branches connected with the trunk between the ligature and the wound. It may happen, that there may be no loss of blood, though a ligature has been applied only above the wound of the ar- tery, as the lower part of the wound may be closed by a coagulum of lymph. In short, a ligature should be applied to both extremities of a large artery that has been wounded; for there is great difficulty in keeping the edges of a punctured artery in con- tact by the compress. • Of the Veins of the Superior Extremities. There are two sets of veins proper to the superior extremi- ties, a superficial and deeper-seated set. The superficial veins are placed under the skin, and between it and the tendinous aponeurosis; whereas the deeper seated veins accompany the arteries. Both sets of veins communicate frequently with each other, and both are provided with valves. There is great variety as to the distribution of the veins in different individuals.