354 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. In each tela choroidea, there is a large vein, which is di- rected backwards, and behind the pineal gland; the veins of opposite sides are united, and form a large vein, which dis- charges its contents into the Torcular Herophili. In cases of disease, it is very difficult to determine whether the pia mater be inflamed or not. The late Mr Hunter is the only author, as far as I know, who has accurately de- scribed the inflammation of this membrane. “ When inflam- mation takes place in parts that have a degree of transparency, that transparency is lessened. This is probably best seen in membranes, such as those that line cavities, or cover bodies in their cavities, such as the pia mater, where, in a natural state, we may observe bloodvessels to be very distinct; but when we see bloodvessels fuller than common, yet distinct, in such membranes, we are not to call that inflammation.” The pia mater receives its blood from the internal carotid, and vertebral arteries. The larger branches of the veins of the pia mater are situ- ated between the convolutions of the brain : the greater num- ber ascend, and terminate in the superior longitudinal sinus. The brain occupies the whole of the upper and fore-part of the cavity of the cranium ; it is somewhat of an oval shape, and extends backwards to the hinder-head, corresponding in figure to the inner table of the skull, which is impressed by it. The upper part of the brain is divided into two great parts or hemispheres, as they have been denominated by anatomists; the smaller extremities of which, are directed forwards. These hemispheres are not exactly similar to each other in all respects; and their length is to their breadth as 4 to 3. These hemispheres are disjoined by a deep fissure, extend- ing from before backwards, in the bottom of which a very white substance is seen, called the corpus callosum, or great- est commissure of the brain. The surfaces of the hemispheres, which are opposed to the falciform process of the dura mater which separates them, are nearly flat, though not destitute of convolutions. All the parts of the brain are double. It has been com- monly described as being symmetrical, so that, it divided in-