OF THE POSTERIOR ILIAC ARTERY. 291 the artery lies under the gluteus maximus muscle, and is ac- companied by the sciatic nerve. This artery sends branches to the tuberosity of the ischium, which anastomose with the pudic, and is covered by the glu- teus maximus muscle. It descends in the hollow between the great trochanter of the thigh-bone and the tuberosity of the ischium, along with the sciatic nerve. Before leaving the pelvis, it detaches branches to the intes- tinum curvum, the womb, bladder, obturator internus, and pyriform muscles; and, without the pelvis, it detaches the arleria coccygea, which passes along the posterior sacro-scia- tic ligament, and gives branches to the levator ani, coccygeus muscle, the fat and bones of the coccyx. The next branch sent off is the runic artery. This artery is derived from the hypogastric, or from the ischiatic artery. This artery passes between the pyriform muscle and the posterior part of the levator ani muscle. The artery passes through the under part of the great sciatic notch, and then between the sacro-ischiatic ligaments to the spine of the ischium. The artery then runs towards the inner sur- face of the tuberosity of the ischium, to which it is fixed by the tendinous aponeurosis of the obturator internus muscle. The artery then advances along the inner side of the ascend- ing ramus of the ischium, behind the transversalis muscle and crus penis. In the above course, there are several small branches sent off, which supply the bladder of urine, vesicu- lar seminales, the obturator internus muscle, the pyriform and gluteus maximus muscles, and the external haemorrhoidal branches. Branches of the same artery pass to the origins of the triceps adductor femoris and semitendinosus muscles. The following branches are sent off from the ascending branch of the pudic artery. •* 1. The Perin.eal Artery ascends between the accelerator urinae and erector muscles, supplying with blood the fatty muscles, skin of the perimeum, and scrotum. 2. rI he profunda penis, which is placed under the trans- versalis perinei. It is fixed to the ascending branch of the ischium, and having reached the symphysis pubis, where t 2