377 OF APOPLEXY. voltaic pile, which' secretes a fluid similar to the galvanic; the medulla oblongata as the conductor in which the fluid is ac- cumulated, and the nerves as the media transmitting the fluid to the muscles. It had been observed by Ah.ex.eus, that a palsy of one side of the body originates from an organic derangement of the opposite side of the brain ; and the observations of the de- cussation of the fibres of the opposite side of the brain and me- dulla oblongata, by Mistichelli, Santorini and Morgag- ni, seemed to afford a ready explanation of this circumstance. But more modern investigation has shewn, that a palsy also originates from a disease of the same side of the brain. To put this in a clear light, I have subjoined a short ab- stract of the cases which fell under the notice of those distin- • guished anatomists Messrs Wenzel. The Wenzels have described the case of a woman eighty- six years of age, who had laboured under palsy of the left side. On dissection, a good deal of blood was found in the right ventricle; the corpus callosum was pushed over to the left side; the septum lucidum was torn, and the fourth ventricle was filled by the extravasated blood. On removing the ex- travasated blood, the right corpum striatum and thalamus nervi optici, were destroyed in part. I saw a case precisely similar to the above, along with the late Drs Gregory and Rutherford, excepting that the pa- tient was a man of fifty years of age. The Wenzels have also published the case of a short-necked fat clergyman, whose right side became paralytic after an attack of apoplexy. He stammered when he spoke, and articulated indistinctly. A great part of the left corpus striatum was found reduced to a pultaceous mass, by the effusion of blood into its substance. In another case, the left leg became paralytic; the patient lost the power of speech and all feeling. In the left hemis- phere of the brain, there was a cavity 2 inches long, and 2* Inroad, filled by extravasated blood. It extended through the substance of the corpus striatum and thalamus nervi optici, and the surrounding brain was soft and pulpy.