ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 572 tones. The lymphatic vessels from these are joined by seve- ral lymphatic vessels from the deeper parts of the thorax, and unite into a lymphatic trunk, which, on the left side of the body, enters the thoracic duct, near to its termination ; and, on the right side, goes into a small short trunk, called the Duct of Steno, which ends at the junction of the right inter- nal juglar and subclavian vein. A few of the lymphatic vessels sometimes open into the in- ternal jugular vein, or into the subclavian veins, near to the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. \ Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Superior Extremities. There are two sets of lymphatic vessels, which are proper to the superior extremities; a superficial and a deeper-seated set. The superficial lymphatic vessels are found on the fore and back-parts of the fingers and hands. Those on the fore-part of the arm run upwards, directly on the fore-part of the arm; those on the back-part of the fore-arm are directed obliquely upwards, and towards the in- ner-side of the elbow-joint. The lymphatic vessels continue their course upwards, along with the basilic vein ; and some of these pass into small glands, in the vicinity of the humeral artery; but the greater num- ber of these vessels do not enter into any gland until they reach the glands of the axilla. There are also a few lymphatic vessels which accompany the cephalic vein ; and, passing between the pectoral and del- toid muscles, are connected with some lymphatic glands, which are situated at the under-part of the clavicle. The deep-seated lymphatic vessels, which accompany the branches of the arteries, accompany the radial, ulnar, and humeral arteries, and at length join the axillary lymphatic glands. • The greater number of the lymphatic vessels of the mara- mee and lateral parts the chest, join with the axillary glands; and there are various branches which pass over the clavicles, and terminate in lymphatic glands at the bottom of the neck.