ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 268 The subclavian vein of the left side then crosses the three great arteries which arise from the arch of the aorta; and, op- posite to the cartilages of the first ribs, uniting with the cor- responding subclavian vein, forms the Vena Cava Superior. A communication is sometimes established between the ba- silic vein and the subjacent artery, in consequence of the ar- tery having been wounded during the operation of venesec- tion. This has been called the aneurismal varix. The blood in this disorder is not effused into the neighbouring cel- lular substance, but passes directly into the superincumbent vein; for there is a sort of canal formed between the fore-part of the artery and the back-part of the vein. The tumour in this aneurism attains but a small size; has an oblong form, and its longer diameter in the direction of the arm, being formed by the expansion of the coats of the vein ; and in the centre of it, the place where the vein had been opened is visible. The tumour, which is colourless, the skin not being inflamed, pulsates, or rather communi- cates a tremulous or thrilling sensation to the finger, for the vein receives the blood at intervals from the subjacent artery. As the aperture in the artery made by the lancet is small, on applying the ear, a hissing noise may be heard, as if (to make use of Dr W. Hunter’s phrase, to whom is due the merit of having first detected the nature of this disorder,) “ there was a blast of air through a small hole.” As at the bend of the arm, a good deal of blood is diverted from the artery, and flows into the vein that lies over it, the pulse at the wrist of the affected arm is not so strong as that in the other. There is little or no pain in the tumour, no inflammation of the skin over it; and when it is compressed, the blood may be squeezed out, but, on the pressure being removed, the tu- mour swells out again. If the arm be raised above the head, the tumour becomes flaccid, but it is tense when the arm hangs by the side, and when the return of the venous blood to the heart is prevented by the tournequet. Mr Park has described a modification of this kind of aneurism, which may be called the Varicose; in which there