594 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The larger tranks accompany the coronary artery, and pass over the arch of the aorta to a gland placed behind the origin of the carotid arteries. A lymphatic vessel of considerable size accompanies the left coronary artery : it passes into a gland placed behind the pulmonary artery and behind the arch of the aorta, and it joins with the lymphatic vessels of the lungs, which termi- nate in the upper-part of the thoracic duct. From what has been stated as to the course of the lympha- tic system, it follows, that this system terminates at the meet- ing of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins ; and al- so in a small duct, which is about half an inch long, and which is formed by the lymphatic vessels from the right side of the liver, diaphragm, heart, and right lobe of the lungs, and by those of the right side of the neck and right arm. It sometimes also happens, that a few lymphatic vessels open into the internal jugular, or into the subclavian vein, a. short distance from the junction of these great veins. In conclusion, I shall subjoin a very few general remarks upon the varied functions of the Lymphatic System. The most important function of the lymphatic system is that of talcing up the chyle, which supplies the waste of the body during the exercise of its several functions. The lymphatic system also, by removing the solid and fluid parts of which the body is composed, and thus making way for the disposition of new matter, contributes to the growth of the body : thus the relative size, situation, and proportion of its component parts is preserved. The lymphatic vessels prevent the several cavities of the body from becoming• dropsical, or the exhaled liquors from becoming acrid by stagnation. The several secreted liquors, as the mucus, the semen, the bile, &c. are at first much diluted, that they may be carried through the very small vessels. The lymphatics carry off the thinner parts of the secreted liquors, by which they are render- ed more fit for their several purposes. Many diseases are communicated by the lymphatics to the