OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 191 thotomy, and also the cause why the instrument occasionally does not pass through that gland, but slips backwards into the sac, between the bladder and rectum. If the stone be of great size, incisions of the usual size are inadequate to the giving free passage to the stone; the parts are bruised or lacerated, if the stone be not broken * For the sake of more accurate description, I shall suppose the dead body to be placed in the horizontal position. This gland may be divided into a basis or broader end, and an apex or narrower end, between which, what may be called the body of the gland, intervenes. The basis and body of the gland are placed rather behind than immediately under the symphysis pubis, to which it is firmly fixed by a portion of the levator ani muscle. The basis or larger end of the prostate gland inclines upwards and backwards; is fixed by a ligamentous mem- brane, and by cellular substance, to the anterior extremities of the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia; and the apex, situated behind the arch of the pubes, looks downwards and forwards. In dividing the prostate gland when performing the lateral operation of lithotomy, care should be taken to divide the la- teral lobe of the prostate gland in the axis of the pelvis : thus the incision is made above the level of the vesiculte seminales, and there is little risk of wounding the rectum. Dr Camper, in one of his valuable engravings of the pel- vis, has pointed out very clearly, the direction in which this gland should be divided, in performing the lateral operation of lithotomy. This gland, which is thicker in the transverse than in the vertical direction, is generally composed of two lobes only, which are similar in size, and which arc separated from each other by a distinct furrow, which is not equally distinct in all individuals. Each of these lobes is somewhat rounded on their surfaces. * Vide Mr Earle’s Observations on the danger of extracting large Calculi, and his account of an instrument for breaking down large stones—Med, Chir. Trans, of London, vol.xi.