OF THE NERVES OF TPIE EAR. 457 seous septa which separate the gyri from each other, and close to the outer sides of the root of the lamina spiralis. They are numerous in the plate between the modiolus and infundibulum; and when the osseous septa, and lamina spi- ralis, are cut near the modiolus, they are seen in the side of the modiolus, between the two plates which compose the sep- ta and lamina spiralis.” The view which Mr Buchanan has published of the seve- ral parts of the ear in a moist state, conveys, in my opinion, a more distinct impression of the relative situation of the seve- ral parts of the ear than any other engraving I have seen. Of the Nerves of the Ear. The internal ear receives its nerves from the seventh pair, which takes its rise from the posterior part of the tuber annu- lare. It takes its rise by two distinct fasciculi, of unequal size, from the white substance of the tuber: the smaller of these parts is harder than the other, and hence one has been cal- led the Portio dura; the other, the Portio mollis. Anatomists differ in opinion as to the origin of this pair of nerves. According to some Avriters, the portio dura takes its origin from the peduncles of the brain, and also from the side of the fourth ventricle. Others have stated, that it arises from between the corpus pyramidale and olivare, and then winds around the inferior margin of the pons Varolii; and that the portio mollis arises from the side of the corpus pyrami- dale. Both portions of the seventh pair of nerves penetrate the dura mater, before entering the meatus auditorius externus. The seventh pair of nerves is lodged in the meatus audito- rius internus, which is situated on that side of the pars pe- trosa of the temporal bone, Avhich is next the cerebellum. The bottom of the meatus auditorius internus resembles a sieve: it is perforated by a great number of small foramina, and subdivided into two portions, of unequal size, by a ridge of bone. The small branches of the portio mollis pass through these small foramina of the bone.