539 OF THE SACllAE NERVE. the leg, and is continued to the upper and inner part of the foot. This nerve descends between the sartorius and triceps muscles, and reaches the inner side of the tibia; and, under the knee, it detaches a branch, called the Nervus SaplucnuS minor, which is subdivided into very minute fibrils upon the inner and back part of the leg, and terminates behind the in- ner ancle. Of the Sacral Nerves. A plexus of nerves is formed by the last lumbar, and four uppermost sacral nerves; which plexus is situated at the side of the rectum. The sacral nerves are six in number, sometimes only five, aud arise from the lower part of the cauda equina; they fol- low an oblique course to the foramina of the os sacrum. The sacral nerves consist of an anterior and posterior fas- ciculus ; the anterior nerves are large, the posterior very small, and distributed upon the back part of the os sacrum and the glutei muscles; and ganglia are formed by the union of the anterior and posterior fascia?. The anterior sacral nerves fill up the holes in the anterior part of the sacrum, and are united with each other, and with the branches of the sympathetic nerve; but the posterior nerves are small, and do not fill up the foramina; they are not larger that common sewing-threads. The first, second, and third sacral nerves pass through holes in the fore-part of the os sacrum ; and, by their union with the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, form the sciatic nerve, the largest nerve of the body. From the sacral nerves, the fasciculi which form the glu- teal, ischiatic, and pudic nerves take their rise. The gluteal nerves are composed of an upper and under fasciculus: these arise from the nerve called by some Lesser Sciatic. The superior passes through the upper part of the notch of the os ilium, and below the pyriform muscle, and is subdivided into several branches which supply the smaller gluteus muscles. The inferior fasciculus passes through the same foramen, and is spent upon the gluteus maximus muscle.