333 OK THE FUNCTIONS OF NERVES. mined by experiment, whether or not there exist any intrinsic differences as to the sensibility of the nerves of particular ani- mals. Upon the nerves the power of motion depends. A muscle is a machine sui generis, the nature of which is yet by no means understood. We are ignorant of the real texture of the muscle, and we have not yet been able to con- trive a machine that shall, in any tolerable way, represent its action. Whether does a muscle possess a power of motion inherent in it, or what Haller has called a Vis insita, or is it a machine acted upon by the mind determining into it the energy of the brain ? Haller, from having noticed that the heart, or other muscle of an animal, when detached from the body, continues to contract for a considerable time, was led to adopt the opi- nion of a vis insita being inherent in muscles, as, from the communication with the brain being intercepted when the heart is removed from the body, it cannot be said that the mind is throwing the influence into the muscle. Though I do not pretend to explain the cause of action of a muscle detached from the body, yet we understand it as well as we do the rousing of the vis insita; they are both un- intelligible. There are two powers inherent in muscles,—a contractile power, w’hich they possess independently of the brain, and also a power of contraction which they derive from the brain. Every circumstance which destroys the one influence, the nervous, destroys equally -well the vis insita of Haller ; and again, those substances which, when applied to the muscles, the most readily rouse those into action ; when applied to the nerves and brain of the animal, do so likewise: thus, upon ap- plying laudanum to the heart, as soon as the inner and sensible part of the heart is touched with it, all farther motion of it ceases, and the vis insita is quite destroyed. If, previous to such an experiment as the above, the aorta of the animal be cut through, so as to interrupt the circulation, the distant muscles are deprived of their power, through the intervention of the