ELEMENTS OF ANATOM V. 256 of aneurism, in different situations, previously. For a nurn- bei of years I had practised this operation, as well as others, on the dead subject; and, from the repeated trials I had made, was satisfied, that, even in great deepening of the wound from elevation of the clavicle, I should be enabled more readily to achieve my purpose with this instrument than with any other, of whatever fashion. The difficulty appear- ed to be, not in bringing up the point of the needle, so as to catch the loop of the ligature, but in getting it beyond the vessel. This is readily accomplished with the instrument I used, (which is delineated in a plate in the Journal). From its construction at the point, as soon as this can be seen or felt, the ligature is immediately laid hold of by the hook or forceps. Having passed the needle, armed with a strong round silk ligature, under the vessel with but little difficulty, I soon exposed the point, by rubbing the cellular substance betwixt it and my finger, and, with a small hook, laying hold of the loop, withdrew the instrument. I then, by tightening theotwo ends of the cord, and pressing with my finger betwixt them, so as to command the pulsation, assured myself, that the ligature was properly placed.” The subclavian artery then sends off the posterior cervi- cal, which sometimes takes its rise in common with the ante- rior cervical and inferior thyroid arteries. This artery rises up in the back-part of the neck, giving branches to the scaleni and trapezius muscles, splenius and trachelo-mastoideus muscles, and it anastomoses with the oc- cipital artery. The anterior cervical is also sent off from the subclavian artery; it is covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle; it ascends along the anterior scalenus muscle, passes under the omo- hyoid muscle, and suddenly divides into branches, which are distributed upon the middle scalenus muscle; and it commu- nicates with the vertebral and occipital arteries. The origin of this artery is by no means uniform. The large artery called arteria dorsalis scapula su- perior, is next sent off; it passes behind the origins of the ster- no-mastoid muscle, from the collar-bone ; follows the course of