110 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY, inflammation of the pleura, and by an effusion of turbid scrum into the sac of the pleura of the affected side. Abscesses of different sizes, and also effused blood, have been found in different parts of the substance of the lungs ; and when the pus is lodged in the cavity of the pleura, the disease has been called Empyema. The lungs have been sometimes, though very rarely, re- duced to a state of gangrene. Tubercle is tile most frequent organic derangement of the lungs, of which Dr Stark has given the most accurate ac- count. Tubercles, according to Dr Stark, are generally seated in the upper and posterior parts of the left lungs, are of a whitish colour and cartilaginous consistence, and, when small, are solid, and always found in the cellular substance of the lungs, and often in clusters *. At first they are very small, commonly numerous; and, when they attain a certain size, matter forms in them. Noxious matter, when absorbed, is conveyed in the first place to the lungs, and if any other organ of the body be in a diseased state, the lymphatic vessels carry the particles that have been absorbed to the lungs, or, if the lungs themselves be diseased, every particle of matter absorbed from them is directly returned upon these. Diseases of the lungs are with great difficulty removed, owing, probably, to the communication of the air-vessels of the lungs with each other. When we consider the great importance of the functions of the lungs to the animal economy, it follows, that, if their functions are perverted, the whole body must be affected. • Some authors have supposed tubercles to be diseased lymphatic glands} though anatomists have not hitherto detected lymphatic glands in the healthy lungs; and for the following reasons. 1. Because disease has discovered lymphatic glands and lymphatic vessels in ftiany parts of the human body, which had been supposed to be destitute of these. 2. Because tubercles of the lungs bear a striking resemblance to the lympha- tic glands in colour and consistence, and to other diseased lymphatic glands, as those of the mesentery and neck. 3. As tubercles are often observed in clusters like diseased lymphatic glands. 4. As tubercles undergo the same morbid changes as diseased lymphatic glands ? and, where diseased, arc filled by similar contents.