ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 838 The brain cannot grow without the heart, the blood being the source from which it is formed; besides, the grey part of the brain abounds with bloodvessels, which cannot be sup- posed to exist without the heart, nor to grow by any power ah extra. The heart, therefore, exists from the beginning, and the evolution of all the other parts of the body depends upon its power, and of the brain, in common with the rest of the body. The inferior animals possess sense and power of motion, in i a greater degree than men ; but our brain is of a more com- plex structure, and our faculties are more extended. That a paralytic limb shrinks must be admitted, but not to the same degree as a part deprived of its nourishment; in proof of which, when my Father had divided the nerves of the limbs of several animals, thus depriving these of sense and motion, after the lapse of fifteen months there was but little difference between the sound and the paralytic limb. The confinement to which the animals were subjected, and the want of activity of every muscle, and of every vessel, af- ford a ready explanation of the slight degree of shrinking of the limbs the nerves of which had been divided. The dividing the nerves proper to the glands, has an obvi- ous effect in diminishing the quantity of the fluids secreted by these. This fact was rendered evident by Nuck. Thus the quantity of saliva formed by the parotid gland was much diminished ; because the bloodvessels had been deprived of the invigorating principle usually communicated to them by the nerves. Before admitting the brain to be the source of nourishment, it must be proved, 1st, That an animal cannot be formed i without a nervous system ; 2d, That the growth of different animals is proportioned to the size of their brain, and to the nerves proper to them ; 3d, That the nerves are hollow; 4th, That the more sensible parts grow more rapidly than the less sensible. Dr Clarke’s testimony completely exposes the futility of the first of the above positions. He has described (in the • Phil. Trans.) a monster, in winch skin, muscle, tendon and