488 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. lar pulse, severe headach, pain and oppression about the prx- cordia, abdominal spasms, with bilious vomiting. In this way he lived from three to four months, when he died apo- plectic. “ The phenomena, in this instance, seem to me to consti- tute the result of an experiment performed by the hand of Nature, in confutation of the principles assumed by the French physiologists, when they divided the nerves into those of animal, and those of organic life.” The second branch of the fifth pair, called the Superior Maxillary Nerve, passes through the foramen rotundum of the sphenoid bone, involved in the dura mater. Before leav- ing its proper canal it sends off a branch from its upper part, which communicates with the lacrymal branch of the first part of the fifth pair; and it sends a branch which passes in a canal above the antrum maxillare.; and, according to Meckel, gives off two small nerves within the fossa pteryo-platina: these branches proceed towards the foramen spheno-palatinum, and form a ganglion somewhat of the figure of a heart, which is somewhat of a reddish colour, called, from its situation, the spheno-palatine by Meckel, who has most particularly des- cribed it in the Memoirs of the Academy of Berlin for 1749. From this ganglion, the superior nasal nerves, the vidian nerve, and the palatine nerves, take their origin. The Superior Nasal Nerves are three or four in number: they are connected with the external surface of the ganglion ; they perforate the dura mater which covers the foramen spheno-palatinum, and give small nerves to the back-part of the superior passage into the nose, and supply the ethmoidal cells. The Vidian or Pterygoid Nerve is also connected with the back-part of the spheno-palatine ganglion. This nerve enters the vidian canal: it gives very small fi- laments, which are spent upon the upper and back part of the nose, and are distributed upon the membrane that covers the back-part of the vomer. The Vidian nerve takes a retrograde course, and enters the foramen innominatum of the pars petrosa of the temporal