OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 195 a cause of difficulty in passing a bougie into the bladder of urine. A number of bloodvessels are distributed on the coats of these ducts, and also nerves and lymphatic vessels. The urethra generally passes through the upper part of the gland ; but it is proper to remark, that it is not always so; for, in some occasions, the urethra is only partially en- closed within this gland, as Dr P. Camper has observed. His words are, “ Ex his omnibus concludere licet, glandulam prostatam in permnltis, si non omnibus, integram urethram ampleocari."1 This gland is covered by a plexus of large veins, which unite with the veins of the bladder : and which veins, when divided in performing lithotomy, may pour out a good deal of blood. The arteries of this gland are derived from the in- ternal pudic arteries. Nerves from the fourth and fifth sa- cral, and also from the plexuses of the intercostal nerves, sup- ply'this gland. The fluid which is derived from the prostate gland, is of a white viscid nature. I had occasion to visit a medical gentleman of seventy- three years of age, who informed me, that he at times suffered, for many years, under very considerable uneasiness in the neck of the bladder, especially after full living, together with very frequent calls to pass his urine, along with which he always discharged a liquor of a pale, brown-colour, which tinged his linen, and which he supposed to be derived from the prostate gland *. The following observations are derived from 17 preparations of enlarged prostate, in the Museum of this University, and in that belonging to myself. The whole mass of the prostate is, in many cases, increased in its transverse diameter from 2 to 3}2 inches, and from 2 to 2\ inches in its depth from its fore to its back part. The la- teral lobes are enlarged, and nearly equally so in the majority of the specimens. In four, the left lobe is most enlarged, and In the healthy state, the liquor secreted by the prostate gland has a whitish colour. X o