ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 358 and muriatic acids diluted with alcohol ; and in some cases ol the chronic form of the dropsy of the brain, I have seen the fibres of it very distinctly. Vieussens has thus described the fibres of the white part of the brain. “ Alba cerebri substantia quam passim sub- stantiam medullarem imo et aliquando medullam nominabi- mus, innumeris e fibrillis simul connexis, at veluti plures in fasciculos distinctis conflatur, quod aperte patet dum ha?c in oleo excoquitur; ilia namque tunc temporis innumeras ex fibrillis, e quibus simul connexis ipsam conflatam esse mo- do diximus, facile dividi potest. Hujusmodi autem fibril la- rum alia? aliis, dum situm naturalem servant, adeo proxime juxta ponuntur, ubi scilicet glandulosa? nulla? particulae ipsis interseruntur, ut sensile nullum inter ipsas relinquatur spatio- lum et continuum constituant corpus : quemadmodum in- teriores baculi fibrillae, licet ipsarum alia? ab aliis separa- biles sint continuum alterum corpus, baculum nempe compo- nunt These fibres, according to Spurzheim, may be traced from the corpora pyramidalia to the tuber annulare; from thence, to the crura cerebri, corpora striata, and substance of the brain ; but they do not, in my opinion, follow, when viewed by the naked eye, so regular a course as has been described and represented by Drs Gall and Spurzheim. In the substance of the white part of the brain, a number of red points, or the orifices of cut vessels, may be perceived ; and, upon examining with attention the white matter, a num- ber of fibres, disposed in different directions, may be per- ceived, and more especially by the aid of magnifying glasses. The white part of the brain, when pressed between the fin- gers, has a soapy feel. The substance of the white part of the brain may be un- ravelled by pouring water, drop by drop, on a thin slice of it; thus it appears, by the microscope, to be composed of a number of very small globules, and of fibres, united by a viscid mucus; and when the brain has been dried, it loses consi- derably in its bulk, and acquires a yellowish-brown colour, Lib. i. cap. x.