82 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. according to the length of the neck, being generally in num- ber between sixteen and twenty: they are about a line in breadth, about the fourth of aline in thickness, and sometimes they are forked. The cartilages of the upper part of the windpipe are some- times broader and farther distant from each other than those of the lower part of that tube. Of the Coats of the Windpipe. The windpipe has several coats. It has a cellular coat, and within, the chest is covered by the mediastinum poste- rius. The several component cartilages of the windpipe are covered and united by a very strong and very elastic liga- ment, which extends from the cricoid cartilage of the larynx to the smaller branches of the windpipe, the fibres of which follow a longitudinal direction ; thus the windpipe may be oc- casionally elongated. There are two strata of muscular fibres, one of which follows the longitudinal direction, the other, or external, follows a circular course. By means of these coats, the w'indpipe is accommodated to the movements of the neck : to a certain degree it is elongated, and also contracted in its diameter, and the air in coughing is pressed out with greater force. The trachea is lined by the continuation of the mucous membrane lining the windpipe ; it is a soft, vascular and very sensible membrane, and connected loosely by cellular mem- brane to the muscular coat. This coat is not of an uniform thickness in every part of the windpipe; in the branches it is thinner than in the trunks of that tube. The inner surface of the windpipe is constantly lubricated by a mucous fluid, which is discharged by the orifices of ducts, which are obvious to the naked eye. They are most numerous, and also largest, in the back-part of the windpipe. After a successful injection, we observe that these mucous glands, in the coats of the windpipe, consist chiefly of a plexus of vessels, which form continuous canals with their excretory ducts. My Father also discovered a number of orifices of