335 OF THE FUNCTIONS OF NERVES. mucus, which prevents the lungs from collapsing after death, is sufficient evidence of the continuance, and I should say in- crease, of the healthy secretion from the bronchi. I kept a dog for several months after the eighth pair of nerves had been divided; and it appeared to me, that the quantity of fleeces discharged by the anus was much greater than is natural. The animal was much emaciated, from the constant derangement of the functions of the stomach. The division of the eighth pair of nerves, seems to derange the functions of the stomach to a great degree, perhaps by suspending the secretion of the gastric juice ; but it does not tend to lessen the fluid secreted into the windpipe and its branches, or into the intestines. It has long been an opinion, that all the nervous threads do not perform the same function, and which was probably sug- gested by the circumstance of the sensation of a limb being lost, but not the power of moving it. Haller and Salvages adopted the above opinion; and it has been within these few years advanced by Dr Wil- son Philip, and Mr C. Bell. According to the former of these gentlemen, the bundles of nervous fibres connected with the brain and spinal cord, consist of two sets of fibres, which are subservient to different purposes. Mr C. Bell proved this rembarkable fact by experiments on the nerves connected with the anterior and posterior fasci- culi of the spinal cord, the posterior set of which he found to be subservient to sensation, the anterior to motion ; and these observations have been confirmed by the subsequent experi- ments of Mr Majendie. Much difference of opinion has, in all ages, prevailed, and still prevails, as to the mode in which impressions are con- veyed along the nerves. The comparison made between the vibratory action of a nerve, and that of a vibrating wire, cannot be admitted. The one is a soft, the other a hard substance ; besides, vibra- ting cords or wires of different lengths communicate different sensations ; whereas the nerves branch out in all directions, and similar sensations are communicated by these cords of diffe-