200 ELEMENTS Or ANATOM Y. raised so high as to make an angle of about 45°. I cannot say I have heard any reason assigned for this great elevation of the body, but perhaps it may be done with a view to pro- mote the falling down of the stone towards the neck of the bladderan advantage which, in my opinion, is very much counterbalanced by the forcing downwards of the bladder and rectum, which are thereby more liable to be cut. There are instances recorded by Mr Brom field * and others, in which the opposite side of the bladder of urine has been wounded, and the intestines have passed through the cut in the coats of the bladder, which may have been in part owing to the improper position of the patient. On the other hand, it seems objectionable to elevate the buttocks of the patient upon pillows, as has been recom- mended by several surgeons of eminence, as thus the incisions cannot be made in the most proper direction,—the axis of the pelvis; and besides, the stone falls back into the fundus of the bladder. In sounding a patient, with a view to discover a stone in the bladder, pillows under the hips are sometimes of use: thus the stone is thrown into the fundus of the bladder, and may there be perceived when it could not be felt in other circumstances. In short, it seems to be most adviseable, to put the body of the patient upon a table, the surface of which is on a level with the breast of the operator, and to place the buttocks of the patient on the edge of the table. The patient is to be laid on his back, with his feet sup- ported on a chair, and his knees separated from each other, and raised, so as to expose the parts to be divided. On account of the vicinity of the rectum to the bladder of urine and urethra, in passing a catheter or staff into the bladder, the introduction of one or two fingers into the rec- tum facilitates the entrance of these instruments into the blad- der. When there is any difficulty in passing the instrument in this manner, we feel exactly how far the instrument has * See his Chirurg. Obs. and Cases, vol. ii.