137 UIII X A It Y COXCRETIOXS. The sixth class contains, those calculi composed of the hy- drophosphate of lime, a substance which was first detected as an ingredient in urinary concretions, by Dr John Davy, who has thus described it. “ It is remarkably hard and brittle. On its exterior surface, as the figure exhibits, there is the ap- pearance of a crystalline arrangement in the form of cubes. The calculus consists of concentric coats very slightly adhe- ring together, and very easily detached or broken from each other. The internal layers only differ from the external sur- face, in being of a lighter colour, and of a less crystalline tex- ture. It is composed of phosphate of lime and water, with- out any appreciable quantity of animal matter. It possesses the following chemical properties : “ It neither decrepitates nor burns before the blowpipe, but fuses when strongly heated. It readily dissolves, with- out effervescence, and without affording any sensible residue, in the muriatic and the nitric acids. The whole taken up by these acids, is thrown down by ammonia, and the precipita- ted matter is quite insoluble in oxalic acid. The calculus, heated to redness in a glass tube, yields as much as 20 per cent, of water, and nothing else besides the fixed phosphate of lime.” Fourcroy and Vauquelin have published a summary of the chemical phenomena presented by the re-agents on the ingredients of urinary concretions, which is highly important, as being an index to the nature of the composition of the different concretions. In addition to the above, a calculus of a reddish brown co- lour, with a smooth surface, and of a hard and compact tex- ture, has been discovered by Dr Marcet, which he has called the xanthic oxyd calculus. The same author has described also a yellowish brown co- loured calculus, like bees-wax in colour and hardness, under the name of the fibrinous calculus. Dr Prout has also described two new concretions: one is composed of the lithate of ammonia, which is of a clay colour, and has a tuberculated surface, and the other is composed of the carbonate of lime, which is of a white colour, and of a fri- able texture.