OF THE NERVES OF THE EAR. 461 canal above described, and is spent upon the side of the face, head and neck. The portio dura, in its progress through the canal of Fal- lopius, gives small branches, which pass inwards and forwards, to the mastoid cells, and also a branch to the stapedius mus- cle, and it sends off a reflected branch through the fora- men innominatum, which joins with the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves. It sends off also a remarkable branch, called Chorda Tympani, which passes across the ca- vity of the tympanum, between the incus and handle of the malleus, and joins the lingual branch of the fifth pair of nerves *. There are two venous canals improperly called aqueducts one of which, begins at the inferior part of the scala tympani, and terminates in a triangular opening, upon the surface of the dura mater. The other duct is described as taking its rise from the vestible, and terminating between the layers of the dura mater behind the meatus interims. The nerves of the ear, like those of the eye, sometimes lose their sensibility, especially in advanced life. In early life, a loss of hearing is often combined with the loss of speech, and in middle life it sometimes proceeds from external violence. The bloodvessels of the internal ear are derived chiefly from the vertebral artery. Inflammation of the internal ear is not uncommon, and is often accompanied by fever. The inflammation, more espe- cially in the scarlet fever, runs on to ulceration, by which the chain of bones has in some cases been cast out, which impairs, but does not destroy, the sense of hearing. This ulceration sometimes induces caries of the bones; and there are in the Museum of this University four instances in which the whole of the ear was destroyed. The pars petrosa ot the temporal bone has sometimes been fractured in consequence of external violence: the membrane of the drum is, at the same time, ruptured, so that more or less blood is discharged from the external ear. • Vide Monro’* Nervous System.