OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLAEY ARTERY. 2-17 Dr Mott of New-York, on one occasion, removed an os- teo-sarcomatous tumour, which grew from the angle of the under jaw-bone, to the first bicuspid tooth ; and Lallemand cut out the whole jaw. On another occasion, Dr Mott’s patient was completely well on the 37th day after the operation. The same gentle- man sawed through the under jaw-bone opposite to the se- cond bicuspid tooth of the left side, and took the bone from its socket, in order to remove a large tumour which grew from under the jaw. The patient died on the fourth day after the operation. Upon removing the ascending branch of the under jaw, we meet writh an artery passing between the external and internal pterygoid muscles: this has been called the Internal Maxillary Artery. It arises about the middle of the ramus of the jaw, and turns inwards in front of the external pterygoid mus- cle. A branch of this artery is sent to the dura mater through the foramen ovale, and another and still larger branch passes through the foramen spinale to the same membrane. A considerable branch of this artery enters into the poste- rior mental hole, along with the inferior maxillary nerve : it passes in a canal through the substance cf that bone, to which it gives several small branches, and also to the teeth, which enter these at the extremities of their roots : what remains of the artery comes out at the anterior mental hole, and anasto- moses with the labial arteries, which are branches of the exter- nal maxillary artery. The internal maxillary also gives one or two branches to the temporal and masseter muscles, and also a branch which passes through the glenoid fissure to the tym- panum of the ear. This artery, in its progress upwards, also gives small branches to the pterygoid, buccinator and zygomatic muscles. Branches of this artery pass through the infra-orbitar canal, which gives small branches to the dura mater, lacrymal gland, and to the coats of the superior maxillary nerve ; and after coming out at the foramen infra-orbitarium, itfreely anastomoses with the nasal and transverse facial branches of the external maxillary artery : small branches of it then pass downwards