170 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. accelerator urina?; arid it is connected to the arch of the pu- bis by a strong triangular-shaped ligament. The corpus spon- giosum gradually becomes narrower, and terminates at the fore-part of the penis, being expanded, so as to form what has been called the Glcins penis. The corpus spongiosum urethrae is covered by the accele- ratores muscles ; and when the very sensible glans penis is sti- mulated, these muscles are roused into action; they contract; and in consequence of their attachment to the other muscles of the perinaeum, they are fixed by the other muscles, and thus the semen is pushed rapidly along the urethra. The acceleratores urinm being oblique muscles, tend, like the other oblique muscles, as those of the pharynx, not merely to contract upon the contents of the part they surround, but also completely to close the canal of the urethra, and thereby prevent the regurgitation of the semen. Upon cutting the corpus spongiosum urethrae transverse- ly, it may be observed to be, in some cases, divided by a transverse septum; a circumstance which has generally been overlooked by anatomists. Of the Mucous Membrane that lines the Urethra. The membrane of the urethra is a mucous membrane, and continuous with that of the bladder of urine, and so thin as to be semi-transparent; the colour of a staff, passed through it, being quite obvious. When the orifice of the urethra is examined in a living per- son, the red colour of the mucous membrane lining that canal may be distinctly seen for about an inch from the ex- tremity of the penis, but in other parts it is of a pale red co- lour; and after a successful injection, or when inflamed, as in gonorrhoea, it assumes a red colour, from the number of ves- sels which are proper to it. In the collapsed state of the penis this membrane is ga- thered into a number of folds, which are disposed in a longi- tudinal direction, but which disappear when it is extended. There has been much difference of opinion, as to the mus- cular structure of the membrane of the urethra.