OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 595 system, such as small-pox, lues venerea, &c.; and, through this same channel, oil of turpentine, mercury, and other medicines enter the body. No one doubts that stimulating substances are absorbed, but many entertain doubts as to the absorption of a watery fluid, because there is no increase of weight after bathing. But this is not a well-grounded argument. It is no proof of non-absorption by the skin. There is a constant exhalation from the surface of the body; and hence, when there is not an increase in the weight of the body, we con- clude that the exhalation and absorption have been equal. But there is, after bathing, in some instances, an increase of weight, proving an excess of absorption. There are many instances of diabetes, in which the quan- tity of urine exceeding the whole ingesta, and also of dropsy returning, though the patient rigidly abstained from fluids of every kind, being apprehensive of a relapse,—of persons who, in consequence of stricture of the gullet, could swallow neither solids nor fluids, who suffered excessively from thirst, which was relieved by warm bathing, and who, after bathing, made as much urine as when in perfect health *. By the lymphatic vessels, the progress of some diseases is removed ; thus lymph that had been effused, is sometimes absorbed, and suppuration has been prevented. By the same means, air, dropsical fluids, or blood collected un- der the skin, or within the shut cavities, and pus or blood con- tained within the lungs, have sometimes been removed by the ab- sorbent vessels. The liver or spleen, when of an unnatural bulk, have regained their healthy size; and tumours upon the surface, or within the body, have been removed by the absor- bent vessels. Diseases in bones are also removed, or prevented from extending, by means of the lymphatic vessels. Thus, in the case of Necrosis, the old bone js sometimes removed by absorption, and that part of a bone which is diseased is cast off. The diseased bone acts as a foreign substance, and * The experiments of Dr Rousseau of Philadelphia, seem to shew that ab- sorption does not take place from the surfaces of mucous membrane?.