104 ELEMENTS OF ANATOM V. as in 01 dinary respiration. The heart began to contract feebly again, and continued to contract for several minutes, till it lost its irritability entirely. h rom these few experiments it seems I think highly probable, that the fixed air taken into the lungs does not exert a noxious power upon the nerves of the lungs, or by their me- dium upon the brain. “ 2. That it either communicates some quality to the blood as it passes through the lungs, or prevents the communication of that quality, which it receives from the atmospheric air. “ 3. That the blood passing through the lungs in this state does not destroy the action of the heart, by any stimulating power which it possesses ; nor by any property noxious to the vital principle ; but by being incapable of exciting it to action.” The influence of the air upon the blood, as it passes through the lungs, is rendered obvious by those cases in which there is the foramen ovale and canalis arteriosus open. In these instances the skin has a purple hue ; it is colder than usual; the digestion goes on ill; and syncope occurs, together with the other symptoms of imperfect oxydation of the blood. I have seen persons inhale for a short time air containing a much larger proportion of oxygen than atmospheric air. By breathing oxygen gas, the pulse is accelerated, it is also made hard and strong, the spirits are elevated, we have a greater disposition to muscular action, and a beautiful glow of red is produced on the cheeks ; after some time a febrile heat is excited, and symptoms of synocha. That an encreased action of vessels takes place by inhaling oxygen was to me very evident, in the case of a man who had an ulcer on his leg, from which there was a discharge of a serous fluid, after he had inhaled the oxygen for a few minutes. An animal, according to Beddoes, died in oxygen gas in a few hours, with all the symptoms of synocha; on dissection all the parts were found of a bright red colour, even the liver. This cannot be owing to the colour of the blood in the vena portarum, but it must be from the blood of the hepatic artery; and black livid spots were found on the intestines, like those produced by gangrene.