BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 259 between the subscapulary and teres major muscles. It passes around the posterior part of the neck of the os humeri, and transversely under the deltoid muscle, from the inner side of the arm outwards and backwards : it then sends several small branches to the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, to the biceps coraco-brachialis, subscapulary, and deltoid muscles. The next branch has been called circumflexa anterior. It is smaller than the former, and often arises in common with it. It is sent off between the subscapulary and teres major muscles. It passes transversely to the outer side of the arm, between the coraco-brachialis, and shorter head of the biceps muscle, to which it gives branches, and around the fore-part of the neck of the os humeri, giving branches to the deltoid and co- raco-brachialis muscles. A branch of this artery is reflected upwards, and divides into several branches, which are spent upon the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint and perios- teum of the bone. It merits attention, that the axillary artery is covered by its corresponding vein, to the coats of which the diseased axil- lary glands frequently adhere very intimately, and are separa- ted with great difficulty. The vein has sometimes been opened in the act of separating the glands from this great vein, which occasionally has proved fatal. The fore-arm receives a sufficient supply of blood, though the subclavian and axillary arteries have been obstructed. My Father had a considerable share in introducing the im- proved method of treating aneurisms. He was led to suggest the propriety of throwing a ligature around the axillary artery, not only in consequence of having frequently taken up that artery in the inferior animals, but also from a case which was com- municated to him by his brother, Dr D. Monro, who, in an axillary aneurism, which had occurred to him in the 1759, found a hole in the axillary artery, leading into the aneurismal sac; and below this place, the sides of the bottom of the axil- lary artery, or top of the humeral artery, had coalesced. The above case led my father to observe, “ that, in the 1st place, The arm, as well as the life of this person, might have