OF TIIE VEINS. 51 In consequence of this elasticity of the arteries, they yield, when the blood Hows into them by the contraction of the heart; and by the same means the artery regains its former situation. When an artery pulsates, it undergoes a change of place; and it regains its original situation, on account of its elasti- city. Owing to the elasticity of the arteries, when an injection is . thrown with great force into them, they are elongated, and becomes tortuous in their course. Owing to the same cause, the arteries preserve their cali- ber, to a certain extent, though they contain no blood; for if two animals, of equal size, be killed, and if one of them be bled to death, the arteries of the one killed in the* latter way, are diminished to one-half of their bulk, the mus- cular contractile power of the arteries having overcome, to a certain extent, their elastic power. The arteries also possess a contractile muscular power. The subjoined is an extract from a paper of my Father, dated August 1. 17bl, entitled by the author, “ Observations and Experiments made on Frogs, concerning the circulation of the blood,—the influence of the heart, and of the small arteries, in promoting the circulation of the blood,—and on the nature of inflammation.” “ Experiment 1.—The ventricle of the heart, brought into view by cutting away the sternum, contracts fifty-eight times in a minute, with great uniformity, both in the degree of its repletion, and times between the contractions. “ Experiment 2.—Jn the smallest visible arteries of the mem- brane between the toes, the motion of the blood, seen with the microscope, appears so uniform, whilst the animal is vi- gorous, that it is impossible, from observing that, to have any idea of the number of contractions the heart performs in a given time. “ Experiment 3.—But, in moribund animals, where the con- tractions of the heart were less frequent, and performed with less force, I could distinctly reckon the number of strokes of the heart, by looking at the smallest visible arteries, in which n 2