444 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Sound is propagated with different degrees of velocity, by different substances; and, with the same substance, the velo- city varies in consequence of the changes which take place in its constitution. In the years 1820, and 1821, an extensive and well con- ducted course of experiments was made on the velocity of sound, by Mr Goldingram, at Madras. By taking the mean of these, made in each month of the year, and again a mean of the whole twelve months, it appears that the mean ve- locity of sound in the atmosphere of that climate, is 1135 feet per second. The velocity depends on the density, the elasti- city, and temperature of the air. By the combined action of these, it varied from about 1100, the velocity in December and January, to 1164, the velocity in July; and, as one would expect, the velocity was greater in the direction of the wind than in the opposite direction. Sound is conveyed with greater celerity through water, al- so through solid bodies, than through air. It has been ob- served, that a person on a frozen river hears the report of a cannon through the ice some time before the sound reaches him through the air. The celebrated French philosopher Biot ascertained, by experiments made on a line of cast-iron pipes 3120 feet long, that sound passed rather more than ten times faster along the metal than through the air. In the first way, the stroke of a hammer on one end of the pipe was heard after an interval of 26"; but the sound required 2.79" to reach the ear through the air. The qualities of sound are very different. The intensity of sound depending upon the extent of the vibrations, the greater the vibrations, the louder the sound. The tone de- pends upon the number of vibrations produced in a given time; and sound is acute or grave in proportion to the num- ber of the vibrations. Two strings are said to be in unison, when they perform the same number of vibrations in the same time. When an acute sound produces twice as many vibrations as a grave sound, it is said to be its octave sound; and is readily