372 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. portions of a circle outwardly, and their extremities, which are reflected inwards, so as to be about two inches distant from each other, terminate in a sharp point, called by the French, Ergot. In the inferior animals the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricles is awanting. According to some authors a fluid is contained within the ventricles, which has been supposed to equalize internal pres- sure. But I do not think that such a fluid can be said to j exist; the sides of the ventricle are merely moistened, in a re- cent and healthy brain. The corpora quadrigemina, or nates and testes, appear at the back of the third ventricle, and are in part covered by the pineal gland, and vascular web in which it is enveloped. The superior and anterior substances, called Nates, are somewhat oval-shaped, and are larger than the inferior round- ed bodies, called Testes. These four rounded bodies cover the passage from the third into the fourth ventricle, and are proportionally larger in the inferior animals than in man. Wiseman’s observations upon wounds of the brain led him to conclude the brain to be insensible,—an opinion which has been confirmed by the latest experiments of Floukens, who states, that the brain or cerebellum, of living animals, may be pricked or cut, without exciting muscular contraction, and without causing pain; but if the corpora quadrigemina be pricked, the animal is thrown into agitation, and the more so, the nearer the instrument is pushed to the medulla oblon- gata. The glandula pinealis is of a light red colour, in form like the tongue, with the narrower end directed backwards. It lies over the corpora quadrigemina, and is involved in the te- la choroidea. The pineal gland is fixed to the posterior com- missure, by two long processes of white matter, and which gradually become smaller, as they advance forwards, to the inner side of the thalami, and anterior crura of the fornix. In the centre of this gland, there is always, after puberty, a sandy substance, of a yellow colour, the proportion of which varies in different cases.