OF THE MUSCLES OF RESPIRATION. 15 under part, serving to pull down the undermost ribs. There are other muscles which occasionally assist in performing in- spiration and expiration ; these are, The Serratus Posticus Superior, which takes its origin from the three lowest vertebrae of the neck, and two upper- most of the back, and is fixed into the 2d, 3d, 4lh and 5th ribs. By this muscle the capacity of the thorax is increased, in consequence of the ribs being raised. The Serratus Posticus Inferior arises in common with the latissimus dorsi by a broad tendon, from the spinous processes of the two lowest dorsal vertebrae, and from the three upper- most lumbar vertebrae, and is fixed into the lower edges of the four inferior ribs. This is the antagonist of the former, or is a muscle of ex- piration, as it tends to depress the ribs. The scaleni are also muscles of inspiration, as they raise the ribs. The Scalenus Anticus takes its rise from the transverse processes of the 4th, 5th and Gth cervical vertebrae, and is fixed into the upper part of the first rib. The Scalenus Mcdius arises from the transverse processes of all the vertebrae of the neck, and is fixed into the upper and outer part of the first rib. The Scalenus Posticus take its rise from the transverse processes of the 5th and 6th cervical vertebrae, and is fixed into the upper edge of the second rib. Respiration may be performed by the intercostal muscles only, or by the diaphragm only. When the descent of the diaphragm is impeded by the un- usual bulk of the bowels of the belly or pelvis, as during the latter months of pregnancy, or when the peritonaeum is in- flamed, the breathing is carried on by the action of the intercos- tal muscles chiefly. On the other hand, the diaphragm is the principal agent in respiration when the ribs are broken, or when their motion is rendered painful by an inflammation of the pleura; when their cartilages become rigid, or are re- duced to a state of bone, as frequently happens during old