ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 308 deeper-seated veins, and it is generally observed to pervade all the superficial veins; but sometimes it is limited to two or three inches of the vein, which swell out to a great degree. I have seen such a partial enlargement of the vena saphama major, near to Poufart’s ligament, bear a very strong resem- blance to a crural hernia. The enlarged veins being elongated, describe a serpentine course, and sometimes they burst. The enlargement is often succeeded by the deposition of coagulable lymph within the vein; which, according to Mr Hodgson, proves a cure, by obliterating the vessel : this coagulum is gradually absorbed ; so that the enlarged vein is ultimately completely obliterated, and the blood is returned to the heart through collateral veins. The enlargement of the veins often gives rise to an inflam- mation of the skin and cellular substance : this ends in ulcer- ation, which it is extremely difficult to heal. Another consequence of an enlargement of the veins, is the formation of a groove in the bone in the vicinity of the en- larged vein. Lastly, as the enlargement of the veins is connected with the gravity of the blood, and all causes impeding the free re- turn of that fluid to the heart, hence the beneficial effects re- sulting from the horizontal posture, and the laced stocking or bandaging, in arresting its progress, or in removing it. I shall conclude this part of my work, by subjoining (Plate XI.) a representation of the distribution of the arteries and veins upon the face of a stump, after these vessels had been filled with wax, of which, as far as I know, no represen- totion has been hitherto given to the public. The enlargement of the lateral anastomosing branches, when the main trunk of an artery has been obliterated in a living animal, has been proved by innumerable observations: thus, a quantity of blood sufficient for the performance of the functions of the limb flows downwards to the thigh, leg and foot, where, for instance, the iliac artery has been obstructed. The enlargement is at first very considerable ; but, in pro-