ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 261 lingers arc therefore supplied from this source, excepting the outer margin of the little finger, and the outer margin of the lore-finger. lowards the points of the fingers, the arteries of opposite sides freely communicate with each other, and form an intri- cate plexus of vessels. At the roots of the fingers, each of the digital arteries receives a small branch from the deep seated arch, and an artery from the superficial arch supplies the thumb. The ulnar artery also sends a branch, named ulnarispro- Junda, near to the root of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, which anastomoses with the deeper-seated arterial arch, formed by the radial artery, and assists in forming the deep palmar arch. From the superficial arch, an artery is also sent to the thumb. At the roots of the fingers, there is generally a communi- cation between the superficial and deep-seated arterial arches. The radial artery, the smaller branch of the humeral, passes over the pronator teres, and then along the fore-part of the radius between the supinator radii longus, and flexor carpi radialis. This artery, in its course downwards, becomes more superficial, and at the wrist lies close on the radius. It sends off a recurrent branch, which passes between the tendon of the biceps, and supinator radii longus, and anastomoses at the outer part of the elbow-joint with the profunda humeri. There are many small branches sent from this artery in its course downwards along the radius, to supply the neighbour- ing muscles. A branch of the radial, called suferficialis vol.e is sent off at the wrist. It passes through the abductor pollicis to the palm of the hand. This artery sometimes anastomoses with the ulnar arch. The size of this branch is various in different individuals. There are also small branches of the radial artery distri- buted upon the ligaments and bones of the wrist, and to the back-part of the metacarpus and fingers. At the carpal end of the radius, the radial artery turns back on the fore-part of the tendons of the extensor muscles