ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 116 venth and eighth months of pregnancy, the weight of the lungs, compared with that of the body, is much greater than at the full period. Besides, it may be added, that after birth the lungs are not expanded all at once, the upper part being first expand- ed. It is also to be taken into account that the lungs may sink though the child had lived. A child, according to Wrisberg, may live for seven or eight minutes without breathing. Dr W. Hunter has stated, « That if a child makes but one gasp, and instantly dies, the lungs will swim in water, as readily as if it had breathed longer, and had then been strangled an observation which has been to a certain degree confirmed by Haller, “ that they (the lungs) will swim af- ter a single inspiration but it is necessary to add, that they may sink if the heart be left : hence, injudicial cases, the necessity of cutting away the heart, and making experi- ments with portions of the lungs. The lungs may sink in water though the child has breath- ed, if they be much gorged with blood, or tuberculated, which rarely happens ; and, on the other hand, the lungs may swim in water when artificially inflated, or from contain- ing air, generated by putrefaction. Such are some of the causes which render it difficult to de- termine whether or not a child has been born alive *. It may be proper to add, that, according to Carpurox, the natural causes of death after delivery are, l,s£, Suffocation, either at the time of delivery, in conse- quence of the child’s mouth falling into the fluid discharges, or after delivery, in consequence of being overlaid. 2d, Weakness and fatigue, owing to a long and difficult labour. 3d, Fracture or other injuries of the head, occasioned by the child falling on the ground. * Those who are desirous of further information on this subject, would do well to read with care a very valuable Review, by my colleague Dr Curistison, of the Works of Lecieux, Hutchinson, and Carpuron, on Infanticide, in the 76th number of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.