406 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. In short, the internal limits of the field of view nearly corres- pond with the external limits formed by the different parts of the face, when the eye is directed forwards and downwards, which is its most natural position. Further, Mr Haldat’s observations, made by producing an artificial strabismus, shew, that Comparetti’s opinion may be contradicted by actual experiment: for in the case of squinting occasioned artificially, one of the impressions fall- ing on a part beyond the visual axis should not produce a perception of the object, which it is known is not the case. An imperfect degree of sight or complete loss of the sense is one of the more common infirmities of old age. To this malady, called amaurosis, hard students, engravers, watchmakers, and other mechanics, whose business requires an examination of very minute objects, and the frequent use‘ of magnifying glasses, are peculiarly liable. The disease is not limited to the decline of life only; an organic disorder of the optic nerves, an attack of apoplexy, palsy, hydrocephalus, a severe blow upon the head, the use of nar- cotics, or even the exposure to the fumes of different poisons, or a disordered state of the bloodvessels, will at any period of life suddenly destroy the sight to a greater or less degree. There are various degrees of depravation of sight; there are some, who see only small black spots upon a sheet of white paper held before the eyes; and I shall never forget being consulted by a gentleman profoundly skilled in mathematics, who used to amuse himself, by endeavouring to ascertain the precise seats of the insensible portions of his retina. There are others who cannot see objects above the level of the eye ; and there are others who retain the use of their eyes, so far as to be able to walk about, but who cannot read a book. There are some persons who are afflicted by an occasional loss of sight. This probably depends on the morbid state of the functions of the stomach or bloodvessels; as it may be re- moved by purging and the lancet. A partial loss of sight is not unfrequent amongst fat horses that have been turned out to graze, and the blindness originating from such a cause is soon carried off by the purgative effect of the green food.