61 INFERENCES. and he died in three days from an inflammation of the lungs. Upon dissection the orifice of the artery was found completely obstructed by coagulable lymph, and also that of the corre- sponding vein, and the nerves composing the axillary plexus were considerably enlarged. The contortion to which these vessels in the arm must have been exposed, together with their elongation, may have had considerable effect in preventing the flood of blood; for wre see that animals by instinct nibble the navel-string, twist it in different ways, and draw it outwards, and no bleeding follows. 3d, That, notwithstanding the great light which modern chemistry has thrown upon the chemical nature of the ani- mal fluids, yet we have not yet arrived at a perfect know- ledge of the blood, which, by the experiments of my pu- pil Dr Blundell *, and those of MM. Prevost and Dumas *f*, has been found to be different in different animals. These gentlemen have found that the blood of an animal of the same species may with safety be transfused into another animal of the same species; but that the transfusion of the blood of an animal of a different species generally proves fatal. Though the blood be altered by disease, there are no well authenticated facts which prove a well marked difference in its chemical composition. The experiments of Fourcroy have pointed out the dif- ferences between the blood of a child and of the adult. There is no fibrin in the former, but instead of it a gelatinous sub- stance, which does not become red by the contact of the air. 4th, The blood, during its passage through the lungs, is changed from venous to arterial blood. The former is of a purple colour, but the latter is of a brilliant scarlet hue. According to the latest experiments of Dr J. Davy, the tem- perature of arterial blood is higher by a degree and a half; and, according to Dr Crawford, it has a greater capacity for heat. From the preceding account of the. structure of the heart, • Med, Chir. Trans. Lond. vol. ix. t Biblioth, Univers. tom. xvii. p. 342-