ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 512 The fifth cervical nerve is joined to the fourth and to the sixth cervical. The sixth cervical is considerably larger than the pre- ceding, and joins the seventh cervical nerve behind the clavicle. Mr S. Cooper has remarked *, that one of the cervical nerves may be mistaken for the subclavian artery, in conse- quence of the pulsation being communicated to all tbe adja- cent parts. I have seen a mistake of this kind actually made by very skilful surgeons. The three inferior cervical and first dorsal nerves pass be- tween tbe scalenus anticus and medius muscles, and then un- der the subclavian muscle to the axilla, where they form the axillary plexus of nerves. In the axillary plexus of nerves, there is a very intimate intermixture of nervous threads -f-, which surrounds the axil- lary artery and vein. The long continued pressure of crutches upon the axillary plexus sometimes creates a shrinking of the arm. On account of the vicinity of the lymphatic glands of the axilla to the axillary plexus of nerves, it is obvious that great caution is requisite in the extirpation of these glands. The complete division of the axillary nerves is not so dan- gerous as the application of a ligature to a nerve. In illus- tration of this remark, it may be added, that I had occasion * First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, 4th edit., vol. i. page 319. Vide representations of the axillary nerves in my Father’s book on the Nervous System, Tab. xv. & xvi, “ Every nerve.” says my Father, “ of the spinal marrow is joined near to its exit by an arch, with the nerve above and below it; but the connection of the several nerves of the arm, or of the leg, may be considered as chief examples of plexus.” “ Many years ago, I was at the pains of tracing the fibres of the nerves of the arm, from their origin in the spinal marrow to their termination in the parts of the arm, by slitting open the sheaths of all the trunks where they form the brachial plexus. I found, indeed, as I expected, that, in the plexuses, the fi- bres of the different trunks were intermixed, and that every nerve under the plexus consisted of fibres of all the nerves, which were tied together above its origin from the plexus.”