effects of stimuli on the bloodvessels. 52 « Experiment 7.—After boring the point of the tail of a water salamander, and the web between the toes -of a frog, I examined the consequent inflammation for four or five days with the microscope. The redness seemed almost entirely ow- ing to an extravasation of a bloody water, in which no globules could be observed, through which vessels carrying red glo- bules passed, the communications of which with the veins were redder and more distinct than in other places, as these vessels were somewhat enlarged. “ Experiment 8.—The appearances were entirely the same three days after the medulla spinalis was destroyed from the middle of the back, or after all the crural nerves were cut. “ Experiment 9-—After the eschars made by the hot iron had separated, I placed the inflamed end of the tail of the water salamander before the microscope, of which the appear- ances are described in Experiment 5. I then touched it with spi- ritus cornu cervi. The vessels in the inflamed part very soon became more distinct, or they were more distended with blood and larger; and then the blood was poured forth from the mouths of a number of vessels upon the end of the tail, or from any part of the edges from which an eschar had sepa- rated. u Experiment 10.—I cut one of the crural nerves at the top of the thigh, and then bored holes with a cold, and burnt them with a red hot, wire, in the web between the toes of both legs. The subsequent inflammation around the edge of the holes was similar in both legs, both to the naked eye, and with the microscope. “ Experiment 11.—I cut one of the crural nerves of the top of the thigh, and then broke both legs, and found, that the subsequent swelling, redness and callus, which reunited the bones, agreed as to every visible mark. But the animal did not appear to feel when the callus of the leg, whose nerve was cut, was bent, pinched, or pricked. Seven days after destroying the posterior end of the spinal marrow I broke both legs, and upon examining them three weeks thereafter, found they were joined by a bulky callus.