58 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Lastly, X?1ig nervous action is not only influenced by the quantity, but also by the quality of the blood. nhe application of a ligature to an artery sometimes creates pain, especially in the case of the spermatic artery. An aneurism of the descending aorta creates very excru- ciating pain, owing, I should suppose, to the pressure and extension of the nervous plexus which envelopes that artery. The arteries are connected to the neighbouring parts by cel- lular substance ; thus they can be readily adapted to the va- ried movement of the limbs, and readily change their place when they are enlarged, and when the pulse is felt. The arteries and veins are provided with an external cellu- lar coat, composed of very fine threads, and which internally is condensed into a dense white layer. In this external coat the elasticity of the arteries chiefly re- sides. The second or muscular coat of the arteries, or the middle coat of some authors, is evidently composed of reddish- yellow fibres, which describe segments of circles. The colour of the fibres of this coat varies in different ar- teries, being most evident in the arteries of middle size, as in the humeral and femoral and popliteal arteries. This coat has a considerable degree of firmness, notwith- standing which, it is cut through by the application of a nar- row ligature, whilst the external coat remains entire, as Dr Jones has proved. Dr Jonus supposed the division of the muscular and inter- nal coats to be essential to the effusion of coagulable lymph, and to the process of adhesive inflammation, by which the vessel was closed. But Dr Jones v'as mistaken on this point; for pressure is sufficient to produce the adhesion of the opposite sides of an artery, and the obliteration of its canal. I have a specimen in which this took place most completely in the humeral ar- tery ; besides, the records of Surgery contain many instances of aneurisms being cured by compression; and within these few weeks I saw a popliteal aneurism cured by the application of pressure. Some authors have described longitudinal fibres as