145 OF THE I.EVATOR URETHRA, &C. Of the Levator Urethra of Mr JVilsojv. In some cases, there is so intimate an intermixture of the fibres of this muscle, and those of the levator ani, that it is very difficult to separate them. In others, there is a distinct layer of fat or cellular substance between these; and the fibres of the levator ani are large, and collected into fasciculi, whilst those of the levator urethrae are very small, similar in point of size, and intimately united to each other, like the muscular fibres of the substance of the heart. A few scattered fibres descend from the symphysis pubis, and pass around and sus- pend, as it were, the membranous part of the urethra; and, on other occasions, the fibres of this muscle are disposed from the symphysis pubis somewhat like the spokes of a fan. Some of these pass backwards, others downwards, and others pass forwards. Of the Bulbo-Urethrales or Acceleratores Ur hi a. This penniform muscle covers the bulb of the urethra^ and about three inches of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. In the centre of the muscle, a white line may be distinctly perceived ; this is the tendon, from which che muscular fibres proceed *n somewhat different directions: those in the fore part of the muscle are most oblique, whereas those which co- ver the bulb are nearly transverse, and those in the middle are neither so oblique as those in the front, nor do they follow so transverse a direction as those of the posterior part of the muscle. The thin tendinous origins of this muscle from the ascend- ing ramus of the ischium, and descending ramus of the pubes, are covered and concealed by the crura penis. The posterior fibres of this muscle are intimately interwoven with the fibres of the sphyncter ani, and those of the trans- versalis perinaei. By this muscle the urethra is compressed, and its contents are expelled. The acceleratores urinae also assist the sphync- ter vesicae in retaining the urine within the bladder, by clos- ing the bulb of the urethra, when the call to pass it is very VOL. II. V