OF AMAUROSIS. 407 I was lately consulted by a young lady who has suffered several attacks of periodical blindness, which she and her re- latives imputed to the sting of a wasp on the upper eye-lid. When stung she suffered very acute pain in the eye-ball, which was speedily succeeded by inflammation, and swelling of the eye-lids and face. By the application of several leeches, blisters applied behind the ear, and the operation of aperient medicines, the inflammation and swelling were speedi- ly removed; but, upon opening the eye-lids, she was much mortified to find she had lost the sight of the eye, and did not recover it. My advice was therefore required. Upon my first visit, I could perceive (as happens in other instances of amau- rosis) nothing unusual in the appearance of the eye, ex- cepting an enlargement and immobility of the pupil. She could distinguish day from night, but nothing more. Her eye was tolerably easy ; she had slight pain in the forehead; and her pulse was between 80 and 90 in the minute; in other respects her health was not impaired. It was recommend- ed to again try the effect of the application of a number of leeches to the temples, of purgatives, and of blisters behind the ear. These proving of no avail, a slight and long pro- tracted course of mercury was prescribed. After she had used the remedy for two months, her general health became so much impaired, that the mercury was there- fore given up. Two months more had scarcely elapsed, when she was seized suddenly during the night with a sense of working (as she called it) and of pain in the eye-balland next morning, to her great delight, found she had regained her sight, and told her parents that she saw as well as ever with her bad eye. She continued to have the full use of her eye for the next four months, after which she again became blind for six weeks, without any obvious cause. She took a little more mercury, and again regained her sight; and what is remarkable, s*he has lost and regained her sight, five or six different times du- ring four years; but unfortunately, at the time these sheets are at press, she has completely lost the use of her eye.