OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 295 o;er and thumb; so that I was thus enabled to command the flow of blood from the wound. It now only remained that I should pass a ligature around the artery and tie it, but this required caution, on account of the contiguity of the vein to the artery. I could not see the vessels, but I made a sepa- ration between them with my fingers. Having, however, on- ly a common needle, with which to pass the ligature, I several times withdrew the point, from the apprehension of wounding the vein. After having tied the artery about an inch and a half above Poupart’s ligament, I divided that part, and thus laid the new and the former wound into one.” The first artery derived from the superficial femoral artery, is the superior external pudic which crosses the heads of the pectineus and gracilis muscles, and gives branches to the in- guinal glands, to the scrotum, and anastomoses with the branches of the epigastric artery. The small branch of this artery proper to the scrotum, in some cases of large scrotal herniae, attains a large size. In the female, branches of this artery are spent on the labia pudendi. A little lower down, the inferior ruDic artery takes its rise, which crosses the pectineus muscle, and the heads of the adductor longus and gracilis. These pudic arteries anastomose with the arteria pudenda, the obturator, and spermatic: several of the branches of the pudic arteries anastomose with those of the penis. About two inches under the crural arch, the femoral artery commonly divides into two great branches, which are nearly equal in size. The branch which follows the same direction with the trunk, has been called the anterior superficial femoral artery, and the other, which sinks deep among the muscles, and is concealed by fat and glands, and by the trunk of the superficial femoral, is called the arteria pro- funda femoris. In a few instances the arteria profunda femoris is sent off immediately under Poupart’s ligament. . The trunk of the superficial femoral artery descends ob- liquely towards the inner side of the thigh ; gradually sinking deeper as it descends ; and, about the middle of the thigh, is situated on the triangular space between the vastus interims