56 element's of anatomy. tuio, or by a piece oi cork interposed between the ligature, that part of the artery around which the ligature is thrown, must die. lliese vasa vasorum do not come directly from the trunk of the artery itself, but from the neighbouring arteries. The trunks of these arteries wind through the cellular substance, around the external coat of the artery, and their smaller branches seem to be spent upon that coat; for I never have been able to trace these vessels upon the internal serous coat of the artery, even after a very successful injection. The small veins or venae venarum accompany the arteries in their course; and it may be observed, that the vasa vaso- rum are not enlarged in the case of aneurism, as the blood- vessels are in the vicinity of tumours of the mamma, testis, See. There are many lymphatic vessels which are proper to the coats of the arteries, otherwise their cavities could not be ex- tended, in proportion to the bulk of the artery. There is every reason to suppose, that the coats of the ar- teries are provided with absorbent vessels. In many parts of the body the absorbent vessels run along the coats of the arteries and veins, but I have not seen ab- sorbent vessels passing through the coats of the arteries or veins. The absorption of the blood, in cases of aneurism, proves, that absorbent vessels are proper to the coats of the arteries. When an aneurism is spontaneously cured, the layers of co- agulated blood are absorbed, and the opposite sides of the ar- tery adhere to each other; so that, instead of perceiving a large tumour, filled by coagulated blood, we find merely a cord, which is, to the touch, like to a fiddle-string, and is not larger than it. The arteries also preserve their relative size to the body, which is alone a sufficient proof that absorbent vessels are proper to the coats of the bloodvessels. Nerves are also proper to the coats of the arteries and veins ; these creep along the coats of several of these vessels, as along the coats of the bloodvessels of the neck, thorax and abdo- men.