472 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. changed into a jelly. When dissolved by boiling, it forms a viscid liquor, which, by evaporation, may be converted in- to glue, and a small proportion of membrane only remains. The skin possesses a remarkable degree of toughness and elasticity; thus it is occasionally much distended in cases of ascites or pregnancy, and soon regains its original bulk upon the cause of distention being removed. But, in some cases of diseased scrotum, and in advanced life, the skin loses a considerable share of its extensibility, probably in conse- quence of its texture being altered ; and, in some instances, it bursts, being incapable of further extension. The skin of a young foetus is a viscid substance, which may be readily torn ; and the fibres of the true skin being gradual- ly added, it acquires greater firmness. There are no wrinkles on the skin of a child, and it is more largely supplied with blood than in the adult. In old age the skin becomes more dense ; it seems dry and hard, and loses its red colour, especially upon the cheeks. On the surface of the skin there are a number of furrows, of different sizes, and which follow different directions, from the form of the subjacent muscles. Of the Colour of the Shin. It is rather the province of a writer on the natural history of man, than of the anatomist, to attempt to describe all the varieties of the human complexion. I shall limit my remarks to the more striking peculiarities. The colour of the skin is one of the most striking proper- ties of this tissue, and is very different amongst the inhabi- tants of different parts of the world. From that circumstance, the human race may be arranged into five classes. But it must be acknowledged, that such a classification is liable to many exceptions. The shades of colour are infinite, and are various even amongst the inhabitants of the same country. The human skin exhibits various shades of white, brown, and black. First, White, accompanied with redness of the cheeks, which is the character of all Europeans, excepting the Lap-