OF THE TONGUE. 467 and even to impede deglutition and breathing to a certain de- gree. I had occasion to see an instance, in which it was quickly very much enlarged, in consequence of taking into the mouth, by mistake, the aqua potass®. In that instance, the inflam- mation and swelling were so much reduced in the course of four hours, by the continued application of ice, that the pa- tient could speak quite distinctly, and was relieved from acute pain in the tongue. The inflammation of the tongue sometimes passes on to suppuration, and even to mortification. The inflammation of the tongue has been sometimes re- moved, by opening the veins of that organ ; but it is difficult to get at the veins, when the tongue is much swelled. The tongue has been sometimes displaced. Thus, when the flow of the saliva through the duct of the inferior max- illary gland is interrupted, the duct, from distention by the saliva, swells out into a tumour, which presses the tongue to the roof of the mouth ; and as the patient speaks very in- distinctly, and croaks somewhat like a frog, the disease has been called Ramda. Such a tumour is semitransparent, and varies from the size of a pea to that of a hen’s egg ; and, when large, it impedes the breathing and deglutition. Ehrlich observes, “ Un jour un homme demanda & par- ler a M. Cline. On le fit entrer dans l’antichambre: tout a coupM. Cline, entendit tomber quelque chose et des plaintes et gemissemcns d’une personne. En ouvrant la porte il vit l’homme en question, etendu par terre, sans connoissance et pret a etouffer. Cline soup9onna la presence d’une corps etranger dans la trachee-artere, et se disposoit deja a pratiquer la bronchotomie, lorsqu’il apper<j:ut la langue du malade pous- see fortement en arriere par une grenouillette qui de plus fai- soit saillie au-dehors. II y plongea une lancette, et donne par la issue a une grande quantite dc pus et de lymphe. c* Le malade, revenu a lui, declara que depuis longtcms il avoit porte une tumeur considerable soils la langue, sans en I etre gene ni en parlant ni en respirant; que cette tumeur, c g 2