branches of the subclavian arteries. 265 of the thumb, and afterwards passes through the abductor in- dicis; after which, it divides into the following branches: the aktetua MAGNA roLLicis, which takes its rise nearly opposite to the root of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, passes along the side of the thumb next the fingers; the radialis indicis, which passes along the side of the fore-finger next the thumb; the palmaris profunda, which, passing across the hand be- tween the roots of the metacarpal bones and flexors of the fingers, assists in forming the deep-seated arterial arch of the palm of the hand, from which a number of small arteries are derived which supply the interossei muscles. The knowledge of these variations in the distribution of the bloodvessels of the arm is of the utmost importance to the surgeon in various operations. There is considerable variety as to the distribution of ar- teries in the palm of the hand: the radial artery sometimes forms the superficial arch, sometimes the superficial arch is formed by the radial, ulnar, and interossei, arteries. If an artery be punctured, the bleeding is stopped by the injection of blood between the artery and its sheath; thus a coagulum is formed, which compresses the orifice of the ar- tery ; after which, the edges of the wounded artery inflame, coagulable lymph is effused, and the wound is healed by ad- hesive inflammation. But if the wound be extensive, accord- ing to Dr Jones *, the canal of the vessel is more or less ob- structed by the lymph. But if an artery be divided, the ar- tery retracts, and the bleeding is stopped by the obliteration of the canal of the artery : the blood then flows by the lateral anastomosing vessels, and thus the life of the part is pre- served. Bleeding is most successfully checked by the compress or ligature. A compress is applied so as to bring into contact the lips of the wound, and to compress the artery above the * On Hemorrhage. A bleeding is stopped, according to Dr Jones, by the formation of a plug at the mouth of the artery,—the inflammation and consoli- dation of its extremity by an effusion of lymph within its canal, and between its coats, and in the cellular sheath around it,—and also by the retraction and constriction of the artery.