160 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. fnore correct to describe only one corpus cavernosum. This forms by much the greater share of the penis : upon its upper surface, it has a groove upon it, which lodges the ve- na or vense ipsius penis, and the corresponding nerves and lymphatic vessels; and, upon its under surface, there is a much larger groove for the urethra. The penis is covered by a loose and thin skin, which has upon it a number of sebaceous follicles, and is joined to the membrane of the corpora cavernosa penis by long bands of cellular substance. At the anterior extremity of the penis, a fold or Praputium is produced by it, which is fixed behind the glans penis; and the under part of the prepuce is attached to the glans, by a process called Framuvi. Some boys at birth have the prepuce of an unusual length and tightness, so that the glans penis cannot be uncovered : they are then said to have Phymosis. To some this proves a source of no inconvenience, and about, or soon after puber- ty, when the glans and corpora cavernosa penis have attained a greater bulk and length, it is removed by frequent erections of the penis: but to others, the constriction of the prepuce is a great annoyance ; it gives rise to an anasarcous swelling of the prepuce, which adds to the constriction, and prevents the free discharge of the sebaceous fluid secreted by the glands at the root of the glans penis : this, by being accu- mulated, becomes acrid, thereby proving a cause of much Uneasiness, and sometimes of inflammation or ulceration of the prepuce ; or retention of urine, originating from a simi- lar cause, sometimes has led to the formation of urinary con- cretions under the prepuce. There are other causes of inflammation of the prepuce, as gonorrhoea virulenta, chancres, warts, or excoriation of the glans. This inflammation sometimes gives rise to the accre- tion of the glans and prepuce* or the ulceration of the glans. In a few rare instances, there is no opening in the prepuce: at birth the urine fills it, forming a tumour, which in a few hours attains so great a size, that it conceals the penis and scrotum.