459 OF THE NERVES OF THE EAR. the portio mollis, with the utmost attention, I find, that they pass outwards from the cavity of the modiolus, through innu- merable minute holes or canals, which every where perforate it. Some fibrils pass between the two plates, which form the septa that separate the gyri from each other. A still greater number of fibrils passes through holes, between the two plates which compose the root of the lamina spiralis. But by far the greatest number of the nervous fibrils perforates the sides of the modiolus, between the osseous septa and the lamina spiralis. The fibrils, which pass through the holes that are nearest to the lamina spiralis, run .to the membrane covering the lamina spiralis; whilst those which are nearest to the sep- ta, run, in a contrary direction, to the membranes covering the septa. We perceive, therefore, that the part of the mem- brane lining each scala, which is the most distant from the modiolus, will be supplied by the terminations of these two sets of fibrils meeting. The nervous fibrils, on the surface of the lamina spiralis, seem larger, and are more regularly dis- posed, than those that run on the surface of the sejita. Two plates are found in the outer osseous part of the lamina spi- ralis, and the space between them is filled with nervous fibres, from which numerous minute fibrils issue between the outer edges of the two plates. There are likewise minute holes in the sides of each of the plates, which compose the lamina spi- ralis ; and there can be no doubt that the nerves between the plates are connected with those which run on their external surface. “ The last branches or fibres of the portio mollis pass through the cribriform plate, in the top of the modiolus, which is common to it and the infundibulum, to supply the last half-gyrus and cupola of the cochlea “ I next observed, that the several branches of the portio mollis, in their whole course along the lamina spiralis, formed an elegant and intricate plexus, by innumerable joinings and separations of their component fibrils *}-. • Vide Nervous System, table xxxi. fig. 1. 2, 3. T Ibid. 1, 2, 3,4.