150 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the bladder, but about the breadth of’ a finger and a half above it in the male, and somewhat lower in the female; and therefore a urinary concretion is more readily discharged, along with the stream of urine, from the female bladder. As there is a portion of the bladder behind, and placed lower than the orifice of the urethra, small concretions may pro- bably lodge within this portion, and may not be tangible by the sound, unless the patient be examined in different posi- tions. When the healthy bladder has been fully distended, a space equal to two or three inches intervenes between the ossa pubis and the fundus of the bladder. In some instances, the bladder rises much higher, and fills a considerable share of the belly. I had occasion to visit a man whose bladder was so large that 12 lb. of urine were repeatedly drawn off from it; and Mr Hunter has stated, that the bladder of one of his patients filled so great a portion of the abdomen, as led him, at first examination, to suppose his patient afflicted by dropsy of the belly. As the bladder, when distended, rises so much above the ossa pubis, it may be punctured or cut into above the ossa pubis; and the instrument, if passed obliquely down- wards, will be less apt to wound the opposite side of the bladder. As the under and back part of the bladder is much ex- tended, when it becomes necessary to puncture the bladder, on account of a retention of urine, the bladder may also be punctured from the rectum .* but it may be difficult to distin- guish the triangular space between the vesiculse seminales, on account of the thickening of the bladder ; or to distinguish, by the touch, the vesiculre, which are rendered flat by the pressure of the over-distended bladder. When the bladder is much contracted, the figure of the bladder is somewhat rounded, and it is situated lower down in the pelvis. In the contracted state of the bladder, the peritonaeum is loose between the bladder and rectum ; and, in this state of the bladder, the rectum forms a considerable projection in- wards upon the bladder. In women, this is more obvious, as the vagina adds to the bulk.