ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 38 There are four veins from the lungs, which communicate with the left auricle, which is rather smaller than the right; and these four pulmonary veins open into the upper and back part of the auricle. 1 his posterior ventricle is shorter, and more rounded than the anterior ventricle, and somewhat of the shape of an ellipse. Within this ventricle, there are a number ofcolumnae carneae, which are nearly similar as to course, with those of the ante- rior ventricle, but somewhat smaller than those of the anterior ventricle. The mitral valve is fixed to the ventricle of this side of the heart, and it is considerably smaller than that of the right side; and every part of this valve is also firmer than that of the right side. The auricular part of the posterior auricle is longer, but not so broad as that of the anterior auricle. The flesh of this auricle is rather thicker than that of the anteiior auricle, but by no means so thick as that of the ventricles. The opening between this auricle and the poste- rior ventricle is oval, but not so large as that on the anterior side of the heart; and from the circumference of this aper- ture, there is a white dense and tendinous-like line, from which the fibres of the valve between the auricle and ventricle take their rise. The valve between the auricle and ventricle is nearly simi- lar to that of the anterior side of the heart, but is composed of two principal parts only ; and has, in shape, been compared to a Bishop’s mitre, and has hence been called Valvula JMi- tralis. This valve is thicker than the tricuspid valve. The muscular substance of the posterior ventricle, is much thicker than that of the anterior vertide, and the cavity of the ventricle is somewhat in form like an egg : but in the foetus, the parietes of both ventricles are nearly of an equal thickness, as the anterior ventricle of the foetus propels the blood through the canalis arteriosus, or through the system at large ; and hence greater strength is required than in after life. The ventricles of the heart do not communicate directly