408 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Since my attention was directed to this young lady’s case, I have heard of three others of a similar description. I have stated, that the pupil is generally much expanded, and at the same time immoveable, when the retina has lost its sensibility. But this general remark is liable to some excep- tions. The pupil is sometimes much contracted, which is the most alarming state, as it is beyond all cure, and often connect- ed with an adhesion between the iris and capsule of the crystal- line lens. There is still another state of the pupil, which had in a peculiar manner attracted the notice of my Father. In this instance, the enlarged pupil becomes still farther ex- panded, upon exposure to a vivid light, owing to the person making, as it were by instinct, an attempt to see. It may be added, that a few hours before death from hydro- cephalus, the pupil, which had been much expanded, becomes in some instances very considerably contracted. When amaurosis has been of long continuance, there is a shrinking of the thalami nervorum opticorum, and of the optic nerve, and also of the muscles of the eye-ball *. Dr Wollaston, from having noticed that he occasionally lost the sight of half a word, has supposed that there is a semidecussation of the fibres of the optic nerves -h ! Of the Iris or Moveable Curtain. The iris floats in the aqueous humour; is of different col- ours in its fore-part in different individuals, corresponding with the colour of the hair ; being light-blue or grey when the hair is light, and brown or black when the hair is black. There are some exceptions to the above. Sometimes the iris is dark, when the skin is white, and such persons have com- monly dark eye-lashes. Sometimes the irides of both eyes are not exactly of the same colour. I have seen portions of the same iris of different colours. Sometimes the upper part is of a light brown colour, and the lower half of a light blue. • See what has been above stated in this Work, p. 320. of this Volume. + Phil. Trans, for 1824, Part 1st.