OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 571 Of the Ly mphatic Vessels of the Head and Neele. The lymphatic vessels of the head are much smaller than those of the extremities of the body; and but few of them have been filled with mercury by the British anatomists. Mascagni, in his Plates XXIV. and XXVI., has represent- ed a number of lymphatic vessels upon the upper-part of the head, the face, and also on the back-part of the head. There are several lymphatic vessels which follow the course of the temporal artery, and which pass through small glands, connected with the parotid gland. Some lymphatic vessels also accompany the occipital arte- ries, which enter a few small glands, situated behind the root of the ear, and the mastoid process of the temporal bones; and another cluster is placed at the nape of the neck. The lymphatic vessels of the face lie in contact with the facial artery and vein ; and those of the deeper parts accom- pany the internal maxillary artery, and pass through glands situated below the angle of the lower-jaw. The lymphatic vessels of the eve-ball have not been de- monstrated ; but in diseases of the eye-ball, one or two small lymphatic glands have been observed at the side of the optic nerve. The lymphatics of the tongue pass into glands placed behind the angle of the jaw. The lymphatic vessels of the human brain have been re- presented by Mascagni *; but they have not been seen by any other anatomist *J\ The superficial and deeper-seated lymphatic vessels of the head pass downwards to the glands which are placed in the vicinity of the internal jugular and carotid arteries. These glands are large and numerous, and collected into clusters; and have been named the Glandule concatenate colli. Some of these lie immediately under the skin, and near to the external jugular veins; but by far the greater number accompany the internal jugular veins and carotid ar- • Vide his XXVI I. Plate. T The lymphatic vessels of the brain and organs of the senses of fishes were discovered by my Father, are mentioned in his book on the Nervous Sys- tem, and are represented in his book on Fishes.