156 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. bulum, or digital cavity. They are separated at the fore- part by a large plexus of veins, and by the cribriform fascia, which divides them from the muscles described by Wilson. Their inferior surface faces towards the prostate gland, where there is interposed between the gland and the muscles, a plexus of veins, formed by the branches into which the vena dorsalis penis divides on passing through the cribriform fascia. Each muscle is divided by a few veins, into two por- tions, the superior and inferior ; the superior deriving its ori- gin from the upper part of the prostatic ligament, close to its connection with the symphysis pubis; the inferior, arising from the lower end of the ligament, contiguous to its at- tachment to the prostate. The superior fibres of this muscle of the right side pass backwards to the fore-part of the neck of the bladder, and, about an inch behind the prostate gland, cross over the corresponding fibres of the left side, spreading out on the lateral and fore-parts of the bladder. The infe- rior and largest portion of this muscle extends almost direct- ly backwards, in the form of a triangle, the base of which is attached to the neck of the bladder, where it is intimately connected to its fellow. From this base, after being connect- ed to its fellow by a few cross slips of fibres, it radiates in se- veral directions. The most internal fibres run almost parallel to each other, and, with the fibres of the opposite muscle, proceed along the fore-part of the bladder, over other fibres, originating from the prostate. Some of these parallel fibres reach as far as the base of the urachus, into which a few are inserted. The most exterior fibres embrace the neck of the bladder, and mingle with these of the back part, where a few assist in forming the transverse fibres of the inner stratum. Below, and a little to the outside of, this muscle, some scattered fibres, described by Santokini, appear, which arise from the fore and lateral parts of the prostate, encircling the bladder with numerous fibres, running chiefly anterior to the entrance of the ureters. Between these muscles of Santorini, and a fasciculus at the. back-part of the bladder (afterwards to be described), there are a number of fibres, extending from the posterior and