OF THE HEART. 33 It merits also particular notice, that the heart (from a cause not easy to explain), sometimes attains a monstrous size, though there be no obvious impediment to the current of the blood. I have a specimen, in which the heart weighed nearly two pounds. According to Morgagni, (Vide 18th Letter, 2d Art.), the heart sometimes has attained a large size, while the aorta has been rather smaller than usual. The patient’s pulse was lan- quid, frequent, and unequal; he had difficult breathing, and tendency to syncope *. The partial enlargement of the heart is much more frequent than a general dilatation ; and, in some cases, one side of the heart has been dilated, and the muscular parietes of the oppo- site side have been much thickened. The human heart is double, or consists of two distinct hearts, one of which propels the blood through the lungs ; the other, the stronger heart, propels the blood through the system at large: hence the one has been called the Pulmonic, the other the Systematic heart. The greater share of the internal surfaces of each of the ca- vities of the heart is unequal. There are certain muscles placed within these, called the Column<e carnece. The columnae carneae of the auricular portions of the heart are much smaller than those of the ventricles, and are dis- posed somewhat like the teeth of a comb. The columnae carneae of the ventricles are rounded, of dif- ferent lengths, and take their rise from the walls of the ven- tricles ; and some of these terminate in small tendinous chords, which are fixed into the valves between the auricles and ven- tricles ; others to the sides of the ventricles. These columnae carncte follow different directions, and interlace each other, so as, in some respects, to resemble a net-work. In the posterior ventricle, the columnae carneae are of a more unequal size than in the anterior. Two of these colum- nae carneae of the posterior ventricle are larger than the others, and are fixed by small rounded tendons into the mi- tral valve. The columnae carneae render the walls of the Vid. also Mr A. Buaru on the Diseases of the Heart Edln.'«1809, VOL, II. r