63 INFERENCES. also after the nerves which lead to it have been divided. The heart contracts chiefly in consequence of the presence of the blood, as has been proved by Baron Haller. When the con- tractions of the heart have become languid, or have ceased, they may frequently be renovated by inflating the lungs. 5th, The disposition of the muscular fibres of the heart is very peculiar; and, by their contraction, the included blood is expelled. During this contraction, the apex approaches its base; the sides of the ventricles are drawn towards the Septum Cordis, which is more fixed ; and, from the corresponding cavities being filled at the same time, and being united by a common septum, they must act at the same time. The heart (as Harvey calls it, the Jundamentum vita, princeps omnium,) is in the alternate state of contraction (or systole), and dilatation (or diastole), from the moment of our birth till the moment of death. 6th, During the contraction of the heart, it starts forwards, describes a portion of a circle, and strikes the side between the fifth and sixth ribs : this is to be imputed to the filling of the auricles placed at the base of the heart, and to the sud- den dilatation of the arch of the aorta ; the anterior part of which is moveable, but the posterior part is fixed down. The auricles and ventricles are successively contracted and dilated. Mr Brodic has drawn the following conclusions from his experiments. “ 1. The influence of the brain is not directly necessary to the action of the heart- “ 2. When the brain is injured or removed, the action of the heart ceases, only because respiration is under it3 influence; and if, under these circum- stances, respiration is artificially produced, the circulation will still continue. “ 3. When the influence of the brain is cut off, the secretion of urine appears to cease, and no heat is generated ; notwithstanding the functions of respiration, and the circulation of the blood, continue to be performed, and the usual changes in the appearance of the blood are produced in the lungs. l: 4. When the air respired is colder than the natural temperature of the ani- mal, the effect of respiration is not to generate, but to diminish animal heat.1' Vid. Med. & Phys. Jour. Vol. xxvi. p. 67.