585 OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. are also large, and more numerous than in the muscular or- gans ; and, besides, the lymphatic glands of the neck are con- siderably larger than in the inferior animals, where the brain is smaller. That lymphatic vessels are proper to the human brain is probable from analogy, for my father has discovered vessels of this description in the brain and organs of the senses of fishes. Morgagni has described and depicted the lymphatic ves- sels of the human brain. In short, there is no well grounded argument against the existence of lymphatic vessels in the human brain, and many strong arguments in favour of their presence. Of the Manner and Cause of Absorption. By what power do fluids enter the lacteal vessels ? As the intestines are contractile organs, it may be supposed that the chyle is pushed into the lacteal vessels by that means. But pressure could have no such effect; besides, the liquors enter the lymphatic vessels under circumstances in which pressure can have no effect, as for instance within the bones. If the abdomen of a living animal be opened, we observe that the contents of the lymphatic vessels pass into the tho- racic duct. This cannot be the result of the pressure of the abdominal muscles; therefore,nothing but a contractile power in the coats of the lymphatic vessels could have pushed forward their contents. Fluids are sucked in, in the same manner as the fibres of the roots of plants imbibe nourishment, or by capillary attraction, as it has been called. In the case of capillary attraction, the liquor rises the higher, the smaller the tube. But this power has only a certain effect, the fluid makes but little progress by its influence; another agent is necessary for propelling the fluid after it ha.s thus entered the absorbent vessel, viz., the contractile power of the coats of the lymphatic vessels. Nuck was the first author who maintained, that the lym- phatic vessels had two coats. In the thoracic duct, these coats sometimes exhibit a fibrous structure, and though fibres be