154 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. place where the peritonaeum is reflected off' from the bladder of urine, in different individuals. The external surface of this coat is besmeared by a quan- tity of a serous fluid. Its internal surface adheres to the muscular coat, by means of very loose cellular membranes, and adipose matter. The peritoneal coat is similar to the peritonaeum of other parts of the body; it possesses a great share of elasticity, thereby adapting itself to the different states of extension of the bladder, and being constantly besmeared by a serous fluid, it always presents a smooth surface to the viscera of the abdo- men. The peritoneal coat of the bladder is sometimes the seat.of acute inflammation. This cellular membrane has not the same thickness, or even appearance in every part of the bladder. In the anterior and lateral regions, the cellular substance is lax, and there is a considerable quantity of fat intermixed with it. It has been described by some authors as a distinct coat. Around the vesiculae seminales we find a dense cellular substance, of a whiter colour. The cellular substance has been stated to add considerably to the strength of the blad- der ; for, when it is dissected off, the internal coat is protruded betwixt the muscular fibres. The Muscular Fibres of the bladder, in the healthy state, are flattened, of a pale colour, of a small size, and disposed in fasciculi, which cross each other in every possible direc- tion, and completely surround the bladder. When the bladder is distended, and the muscular fasciculi are elongated, these fibres are much separated from each other ; so that the internal coat of the bladder is seen between them ; but, when the bladder is empty, the muscular fasciculi of that organ approximate each other. These muscular fibres are not of an uniform size. Those which are external are the largest, and are disposed in a longitudinal direction. The smaller cross these. I conceived it to be matter of great moment to trace, with care, the direction of the fibres of the bladder, and especially that of those fibres which arc disposed around the neck of