OE THE RECTO-VESICAL OPERATION. 201 penetrated. By pulling downwards the rectum and anus, the membranous part of the urethra is stretched, by which the instrument passes more readily into the bladder of urine. When the instrument has got beyond the membranous part of the urethra, and is lodged within and covered by the prostate gland, with a little address, it may be passed into the blad- der. If there be reason to suspect that the instrument has rup- tured and passed through the membranous part of the ure- thra, which it may be concluded has happened, if the urine does not flow through the catheter,—by the patient suffering acute pain when the handle of the instrument is depressed,— and by the point of the catheter being felt between the rectum and bladder, whilst, at the same time, the prostate gland is felt very indistinctly,—the instrument should be withdrawn, and no further attempt made to pass it until the wound in the urethra has healed, which generally happens sooner than might have been expected. If the point of the staff be fairly within the bladder, the handle of it falls down, and the instrument is very moveable within the bladder. As the stone generally lies in the pouch behind the neck of the bladder, if we do not strike the stone at first, that may be done by drawing backwards the instrument, and by chan- ging the position of the patient. The surgeon, immediately before commencing the opera- tion, should satisfy himself by the staff, that he feels the stone in the bladder, as it may have passed into a cyst, though loose, within the bladder, when he had previously sounded his pa- tient. On account of the vicinity and connection of the rectum to the bladder of urine, it is possible to feel and distinguish the size of a stone by the point of the finger, within the rectum, provided the coats of the bladder have not been previously thickened and indurated (which often happens) when a patient has been, for a long time, afflicted with stone. Different methods have been proposed for the extraction of a stone from the bladder of urine.