ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 54 which did not give the animal pain when it was pinched, cut, or touched with spirit of hartshorn." Hence inflammation, new vessels, and new parts, may be added to the body, where there is no perceivable motion nor sensation of a member, as soon and as perfectly as where the nerves are entire; and, therefore, the formation of these does not depend so much on nervous influence as many, with great appearance of reason, have imagined. My Father, in the observations he has appended to his de- scription of a male monster *, has made mention of his experi- ments and observations, which demonstrate this contractile power of the arteries and veins. In the monster he has described, there was no heart, but all the other apparatus of circulation; the blood, therefore, must have been carried through the arteries and veins, by a muscular power which is inherent in the parietes of these ves- sels. The experiments of Drs Verschuir, Wilson Philip, Hastings, and of Mr J. PIunter, to which I refer the read- er, afford additional evidence of the same truth. I shall there- fore only state, that the arteries of persons killed by hanging, are found empty, and, like the other muscles, in a state of ri- gid contraction, which they retain for ten or twelve hours,— that the arteries of an animal, bled to death, are found quite empty ; and also, that, according to Mr J. Hunter, the ar- teries, like the heart in the class of amphibia, may be excited to contraction, for several hours, after they have been sepa- rated from the body. The coats of the arteries admit of considerable extension ; they are often extended into those tumours called Aneurisms. Such tumours are of two different kinds; the first is formed by the uniform expansion of all the coats; the second kind is formed by the internal coats giving way, and by the expan- sion of the outermost cellular coat of the artery into a sac f; which latter, according to the observations of Sennertus and Scarpa, is the most frequent kind of aneurism ; but, accord- Phil. Trans. Edin. vol. iii. f Vide Plates II. and III.