456 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Father devoted much of his attention to the structure of this organ. His description of it cannot be abridged without being deteriorated ; and, therefore, it is subjoined verbatim from his last Treatise. “ The central pillar of the cochlea consists of two parts, cal- led Modiolus and Infundibulum. “ The modiolus is not a solid osseous cone, as has been ge- nerally supposed, but may be considered as a hollow cone, con- taining that branch of the portio mollis which is destined for the cochlea ; and is everywhere cribriform, for the passage of the branchesof that nerve. The infundibulum is an imperfect osse- ous funnel, connected to the top of the modiolus. So that the modiolus and infundibulum are two hollow conical bodies, con- nected together by their small ends. The plate which is be- tween them, and in the centre of both, is cribriform. Around the modiolus, the first gyrus of the cochlea, and half of the second gyrus, are described ; the other half gyrus incloses the root of the infundibulum ; and the upper ends of the gyri, which communicate with each other, are covered or inclosed by the cupola of the cochlea. “ The partitions of bone which separate the gyri from each other, are not composed of one solid plate, as authors have re- presented *, but consist of two plates, connected to the modio- lus at some distance from each other. “ The osseous root of the lamina spiralis is likewise com- posed of two plates, connected to the modiolus or root of the infundibulum, at some distance from each other. “ I have already observed, that the modiolus is composed of a cribriform hollow cone, the sides of which consist of two thin plates; and the holes in it are much more numerous than they have been described to be by authors, and are not dis- posed in the regular manner they have represented them -f*. “ They are to be seen in every part of the surface of the modiolus, but are most numerous close to the roots of the os- * Du Verney, Cassebohm, T. 5. F. T, 8, 9, 10. Scarpa, p. 10. F. 3. 7. -J* Cassebohm, t. .5. f. 10-