72 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. In a living animal, the capacity of the lungs is constantly varying, as these organs follow the movements of the parie- tes of the chest during respiration. ^ he colour of the lungs varies according to the period of life, and quantity of blood they contain ; during infancy, the lungs are of a light red colour, during manhood, of a greyish purple hue, and in old age they acquire a deep purple or brownish colour, and have a number of small rounded spots upon them, of a still darker appearance. The 1 ungs of the victims of the guillotine have been said, by the French writers, to be of a pale grey colour ,• but if we may form a judgment from the lungs of animals that have been killed by bleeding, the lungs still retain their purple hue. The sensation communicated by pressing the healthy lungs is very peculiar; they feel, as if filled by air, and they readily float on the surface of water; but I never could so far succeed in pressing out the air, as to take off the pecu- liar feel, or to make them sink in water. But when the lungs have been inflamed, they acquire the colour, consistence, and weight, of a portion of the liver, and readily sink in water *. Of the Coats of the Lungs. The lungs have two coats, which may be separated from each other in the fcetus, but which are inseparable in the adult. The external is the continuation of the pleura; it is very thin but dense. The inner coat covers the lungs, and insinuates itself between the lobes and lobules. Besides these coats I saw, in one instance, a thin mem- brane, about the same thickness as the pleura, in which there were a number of bloodvessels, extending over the whole sur- face of the lungs of the left side, and it adhered, in some places, very intimately with the pleura covering the lungs. There were no morbid appearances which indicated previous inflammation. * According to Lecieux, there is sometimes a malconformation of the lungs. The average weight of the lungs in forty children, born dead at the full time, ■is about 801 grains, according to that author ; but in five of these it was only 32, 19, 14', 13, and 10 grains, whilst the body was of the average size.