ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 404 In children and old persons the border is not so apparent as in the adult; as, instead of being yellow, it is of a very light straw colour. This foramen was for some time supposed to be proper only to Man, and the genus Simia. Dr Knox, however, discovered it also in lizards, as in the Lacerta superciliosa, sculuta, stria- ta, and calotes; but it is wanting in the lizards called gecko, and mabuya. In these animals, it is proportionally larger than in the human body, and is more evidently a foramen, for in the human body, it has been disputed whether it was a spot upon the retina or a foramen. The retina is involved on its inner side, and also outwardly, by a membrane somewhat like to the pia mater, which sepa- rates the medullary mater from the choroid coat. The outer membrane was described by my Father as resembling the pia mater, and more lately it has been fully described in the Philosophical Transactions, by my former pupil Dr Jacob of Dublin. The membranes which involve the retina pass nearly to the circumference of the crystalline lens, and, by passing over the canal of Petit, add considerably to its strength. The central artei'y of the retina may be very distinctly seen, at the same time as the small hole in the retina, rami- fying upon the surface of the retina; and sometimes we ob- serve its branches encircling the small hole in the retina. The axis of the eye-ball does not correspond with that of the orbit. The axis of the orbit is directed obliquely out- wards, whereas the axis of the eye is directly forwards ; and the axes of the two eyes are parallel. That part of the optic nerve which enters the eye-ball is insensible. My Father has observed: “ I found that the diameter of the object which disappears is very nearly equal to one-ninth part of our distance from it; or that, at the dis- tance of nine feet from a wall, a circle one foot in diameter is lost. If, therefore, we suppose the human eye to be one inch or twelve lines in diameter, and that the rays of light issuing from the object, decussate about the centre of the crystalline lens, which is nearly three lines behind the cornea, or nine