397 OF THE CORNEA. The cornea, from its peculiar structure, is liable to several organic derangements. It is very often inflamed, and bloodvessels may be observed passing over it, which is attended by dimness of sight; and, in consequence of that inflammation, it often becomes opake to a greater or less degree. Pustules also sometimes form on the cornea, and when suppuration takes place, the apex of the pustule suppurates. Blood or pus is often collected be- tween the layers of the cornea; or pus is • effused into the aqueous humour; or the cornea is very much enlarged, and is at the same time opake, as happens in the disease commonly called Staphyloma. In the eyes of persons far advanced in life, there is, at the root of the cornea, a white line ; but this white circle is not peculiar to the old only. I have observed it in a person who was only thirty years of age, who assured me that three of his family were born with it; and I have also seen it as an ef- fect of inflammation,—a fact which confirms the opinion my Father has published, as to its nature, viz. that it consists chiefly of a plexus of small vessels. The cornea has a great effect in refracting the rays of light; because the rays at the cornea pass from the rarer medium, the air, into the more dense medium, the aqueous fluid; and ac- cording to Mr Ramsden, a principal purpose of the crystalline lens is “ to correct aberration, arising from the spherical figure of the cornea, where the principal part of the refraction takes place.” Of the Choroid Coat. This coat forms the second layer or tunic : it is much thin- ner, and more pliable, than the sclerotic; is of a brown co- lour, and not unlike that of snuff. The colour is derived from the paint which lines it. This paint is black where it lines the ciliary circle and processes, or where it covers the anterior part and termination of the retina, in order, proba- bly, to suffocate the rays of light which are reflected from the bottom of the eye, upon this part of the retina. A curious set of chemical experiments on the black pig-