ELEMENTS Oh'. ANATOMY. 604 Of the State of the Womb at the Ninth Month. The womb, in different women, at the ninth month, is dif- ferent in point of size, and even differs in the same woman in different pregnancies, which depends upon the bulk of the foetus, and the quantity of liquor amnii. The womb generally inclines to one side, and rests on the os ilium. The substance of the womb is unlike any other part of the animal body ; it is soft, loose in its texture, plastic, and rea- dily impressed by any harder body, with which it comes into contact. This laxity of texture seems to be connected with the large quantity of cellular substance, and the number and size of the bloodvessels and lymphatics, which are proper to it. The greater part of the substance of the uterus is composed of small muscular fibres,.the course of which it is impossible to trace upon the outer surface of the womb. The course of these muscular fibres has been very diffe- rently represented by authors. Malpighi represents them as forming a net-work. Ruysch says, the muscular fibres of the womb form an orbicular muscle, and resemble concen- tric fibres. Dr Hunter has represented the muscular fibres of the womb as being transverse in the body of the womb, and as describing concentric circles around each orifice of the Fallopian tubes. These fibres possess the distinguishing property of the muscular fibre; a contractile power which, according to Dr Hunter, is in some parts of the womb voluntary, but in others, involuntary; and in some places slow, but in others' quick. Owing to the softness of the muscular structure of the womb; which is not put upon the stretch by the contained parts, the womb very readily changes its shape from a parti- cular posture, from the pressure of adjacent parts, or from, the position of the foetus. The gravid' womb is placed somewhat: obliquely, the fun- dus. lies, forwards, and: the mouth is directed backwards ; hence'the, intestines must always be>placetf behind theuitenw.