552 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and is not proportioned to the size of the individual, for they are proportionally larger before than after puberty, and they shrink in old age. The lymphatics also, of different parts of the body, vary as to size in the same individual, and sometimes even in the different parts of the same limb : thus the lymphatic vessels of the head and neck, and of the arms, are smaller than those of the trunk of the body, or of the inferior extremities. Those lymphatics which lie under the skin of the thigh and leg are more numerous, but smaller, than those which ac- company the deeper seated arteries of the same limb; and those on the inner side of the limb are larger, and probably also more numerous, than those on the outer side of the same limb. The coats of those of the inferior extremities are thicker than those of the superior, or of the face. Their size in man is proportioned to that of the body, for they have been observed to be much larger in giants, and smaller in dwarfs, thaft*m persons of the ordinary stature. The lymphatic vessels, in their progress to the heart, become larger; thus those in the groin are larger than those of the foot. In the horse, the lymphatics are larger than in man ; but the lymphatics of the human body are as large as those of the ox or elephant. When any part attains a large bulk, the lymphatic vessels are also enlarged ; thus the lymphatic vessels of the gravid ' womb or of the mamma of a nurse are much larger than those of the virgin womb or mamma. From the small size, thinness, and pellucidity, of the coats of the lymphatic vessels, it is difficult to discover these vessels. Much dexterity is also required in filling them, and after- wards in dissecting them. After lymphatic vessels have been discovered, it is very dif- ficult to open them in such a manner as to introduce proper instruments for injecting them; and as they are crowded with valves, which even in the dead body oppose the reflux of a subtle fluid, they must be filled from branch to trunk. In dropsical persons the lymphatic vessels may be more