290 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. with the pudendal artery. The external branch is distributed on the obturator muscles, the ligament of the hip-joint, and origin of the vastus internus muscle. The next large artery which is sent off from the posterior iliac artery is the gluteal artery. This artery is placed un- der the gluteus maximus and medius muscles ; it passes over the pyriform muscle, and between it and the inferior edge of the ileum which forms the upper part of the sciatic notch. This artery has sometimes been opened by a wound in- flicted by a cutting instrument; and it is required, in order to stop the bleeding, to throw a ligature around the main trunk. A case of this description occurred in the hospital of this city, and was ably treated by Mr J. Bell. This is the largest branch of the posterior iliac ; it takes its rise from the back-part of the trunk of the posterior iliac, passes backwards through the uppermost part of the great notch of the os ilium, and is subdivided into two great branches, a superficial, and a deep-seated branch, which anas- tomose with each other. The superficial passes between the gluteus maximus and medius, and pyriform muscles, to both of which it gives many branches. This artery anastomoses with the sacral ar- tery. The deep-seated branch, placed under the middle of the gluteus muscle, divides into superior and inferior branches. The branches of the superior are distributed on the dor- sum of the os ilium and the gluteus medius muscles, and some small branches pass downwards on the gluteus minimus muscle. The inferior branch is distributed upon the inferior glu- teus, superior geminus muscle, and subdivides suddenly in- to a number of small branches, which are lost upon the tro- chanter major, and which inosculate with the smaller ascend- ing branches derived from the perforating branches of the ar- teria profunda femoris. The ischiatic artery is also a large branch of the poste- rior iliac. This artery leaves the pelvis at the lower margin of the pyriform muscle and the superior sacro-sciatic ligament;