OF THE SPINAL CORD. 509 muscles of voluntary motion, are referable to the following law : that the heart is excited by all stimuli applied to any considerable part of the brain or spinal marrow, while the muscles of voluntary motion are only excited by intense sti- muli applied to certain small parts of these organs.” The spinal cord is liable to be injured by an unnatural con- traction of the spinal canal, by distortion, fracture, subluxa- tion or dislocation (according to some authors) of the verte- bra, or by caries of these bones. Much useful informa- tion respecting spinal diseases has been lately communicated to the public, by Ramchetti, Brera, Abercrombie, C. Bell, Shaw, Bampfield, Ward and Olivier. The spi- nal cord is liable to suffer from concussion, and also from pe- culiar derangements. \st, It is liable to suffer from concussion. Many instances have occurred, in which persons, after the receipt of a very slight injury upon the back, which did not break, or even dis- colour the skin, have suddenly been deprived of the use of the inferior extremities, and of the power of voiding their urine ; and if the upper part of the spine be injured, there is difficult breathing, accompanied by a loss of power of the su- perior extremities. Upon dissection, no morbid appearance is discovered. Inflammation of the brain is sometimes a consequence of concussion of that organ ; the same holds true in respect to the spinal cord. It is also liable to a turgescence of the blood- vessels proper to it, and which is a very frequent concomitant of convulsive disorders ; and so much so, that when we find a portion of the intestines of a child very much contracted af- ter death, we may be assured, upon opening the spinal canal, of finding its bloodvessels, and more especially its veins, very much distended by blood, and following a tortuous course. This appearance is often combined with the effusion of a gelatinous substance between the coats of the spinal cord. The symptoms which precede death, originating from such a cause, are tremors, chorea, epilepsy and palsy. The most striking case of inflammation of the brain and