ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 332 by anastomoses. That gentleman cut out a portion of the ulnar nerve behind the inner condyle of the os humeri, and five years after the operation, sensation in the little finger was very imperfect. Now, might not the communication of the ulnar nerve beyond the part that had been cut out with the median and spinal nerves, have kept up the communication with the brain ? The case mentioned by Mr Swan, of a person who divided the median nerve, is equally in point: the part on which that nerve is distributed always remained cold. In opposition to the above cases, it merits mention, that there are certain sympathies and certain sensations which seem to depend upon certain communications of the nerves; thus vomiting is excited by thrusting the finger into the mouth, as the eighth pair of nerves supply both the pharynx and sto- mach. Strong odours induce a flow of tears, as the different branches of the fifth pair supply the nose and the lacrymal gland; and, owing to the numerous communications between the great sympathetic and eighth pair of nerves, many very peculiar sympathies are excited. It must also be admitted, that there are many instances of a remarkable degree of sym- pathy, when there is no evident union between the nerves of the sympathising parts. There are many differences as to sensation in different ani- mals, which are referable to the degree of perfection of the or- gans; and, in certain species, certain organs are more perfect than in others. Sensations are also communicated by peculiar states of the internal parts to which the nerves are distributed, without any external excitement, as in dreaming; hence a sensation is not a communication by an external concussion, but by a peculiar condition of the brain. There are many peculiarities as to sensations,—as to the exhaustion consequent to mental exertion,—as to the conti- nuance of peculiar sensations,—as to the susceptibility of the nerves for receiving these,—as to the operation of medicines, and of inflammation in weakening or increasing that suscepti- bility, which it is not my province to describe. Lastly, It may be observed, that it has not yet been deter-