ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 26'0 been saved by a ligature of the subclavian or axillary artery ; and, in the next place, That such an operation might be prac- tised in the case of an aneurism or wound of any artery of the superior extremities. “ After this, (he continues), in the year 1787, I sent to our Infirmary a boy of twelve years age, who had been wounded in the middle of his anterior femoral artery, with a pen-knife, and who was recommended to my care by Mr Wetiierstoun, surgeon in Lauder. He was cured by tying up the trunk of that artery : and, very lately, I had the satisfaction of seeing him in my house, stout in his limbs, and without a halt, or other sign of lameness.” The axillary artery then quits the axilla; and at the inner and inferior part of' the ball of the os humeri, it lies along the inner-edge of the coraco-brachialis muscle; hence, when the head of the os humeri has been dislocated, the artery is so much elongated and compressed by the displaced bone, that the pulse at the wrist of the same side is often much weaker than that of the sound one. The artery then advances towards the front of the axilla, and pursues its course, together with its corresponding vein, along the os humeri, covered by the tendinous aponeurosis of the arm, and radial nerve, along the inner side of the biceps flexor cubiti; and it is here called Humeral artery. As the humeral artery and radial nerve adhere closely to each other, the nerve may, by an inattentive surgeon, be in- cluded in a ligature, which renders the ligature insecure, and is often followed by bad consequences, on account of the injury done to the nerve. The spiralis humeri, is the next considerable artery \ which is sent off from the humeral artery. It takes its rise j near to the insertion of the teres muscle into the humerus; it follows a spiral course downwards and outwards around the os humeri, between the long and short heads of the tri-1 ceps muscle, and comes out on the outer side of the arm, I between the brachialis internus, and supinator radii longus ;i muscles. This artery is, in some instances, as large as the radial ar- g tery.