ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 390 corpora striata, situated in the anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles : they are soft and flattened; are disposed in grooves in the under part of the anterior lobes of the brain, and approach each other as they pass forwards, terminating in an oval-shaped cineritious body, which rests upon the cri- briform plate of the ethmoid bone. In the foetus of three months, the olfactory nerves are hol- low, and of a rounded form. From these oval-shaped bodies, a great number of small nerves pass through the holes in the cribriform plate. These nerves divide into two fasciculi: the one set is distributed up- on the septum narium, upon which they form a very intricate plexus, (my Father was, I believe, the first who accurately described the course of these small nerves *;) and the other part is distributed upon the turbinated processes of the eth- moid bone. Majendie has lately endeavoured to prove, that the nerves formerly called olfactory, optic, and auditory, are not the nerves of smell, seeing, and hearing ; and that the fifth pair, if they do not exercise these functions, are the regulators of the senses above named. The ethmoidal, sphenoidal and frontal sinuses, communi- cate with the nose, and are lined by the continuation of the mucous membrane which lines the nostrils. The frontal communicate with the ethmoidal sinuses, which communicate with the nose at its upper and lateral parts be- hind the os unguis. The sphenoidal sinuses open into the upper and back part of the nose, and the maxillary sinuses communicate with the nose by an aperture placed nearly in the middle, between the turbinated processes of the ethmoid bone and the inferior tur- binated bones. The air, the vehicle of all odours, when impregnated with certain odours, and inhaled, excites the sensation we call Smelling. To render the sensation the stronger, the inter- nal sui'face of the nostrils is of very considerable extent; and, * Vide his description in his Book on the Nervous System.