ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 496 thyroid gland. I was consulted lately by a woman of sixty years of age, who had laboured under the last named disease for fourteen years. Her voice was so weak that I scarcely could hear what she said, and at the same time husky; and, to make use of her own phrase, she had “ lost her voice ever since her throat swelled.1’ That the strength of the voice is much impaired by irrita- ting or dividing the par vagum of the eighth pair of nerves has been long known. My Grandfather has stated, that from the distribution of the par vagum we may learn how the ner- vous asthma and tussis convulsiva are attended with a strait- ening of the glottis. An experiment was made two years ago, in the Anatomical Theatre, upon a large dog, which illustrated several important circumstances, resulting from the division of the eighth pair of nerves. The eighth pair of nerves on the right side was divided op- posite to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx, (February 15. 1822), upon whicch the animal became very much agitated, and shook from head to foot for several hours. The under eye-lid of the same side was turned outwards, and became what is commonly called bloodshot. The opposite extremities of the divided nerve were turned in different directions, after which the wound was slightly dressed. After the operation, the dog was evidently feverish, and refused every kind of food that was offered to him. He attempted to drink water frequently, but he could not readily swallow it; it gurgled for some time in his throat, as in cases of dysphagia, and at length a part of it got down. After forty-eight hours, he took some boiled beef, the greater part of which was rejected by vomiting, and this con- tinued during four days, when he seemed hungry, and took some animal food, which he retained. He lost entirely the power of barking, and could make on- ly a noise somewhat like to that of a puppy two or three weeks old. It merits mention that there was an appearance of a third eye-lid. The dog on the sixth day from the ex-