340 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. soning principle; in proof of which, thougli the spinal coni and nerves be divided or diseased, the mental powers continue unimpared. This is obvious in diseases of the spinal cord : those parts of the body which receive nerves below the seat of the disease become paralytic; but there is a loss of sensation and voluntary motion when the brain has been com- pressed. The brain is that mass of matter which, in man, fills the skull; and which corresponds in form with its inner surface. The brain is well protected from external injury by the skull, and softer parts which cover it. The several bones of the skull are so disposed as to form a solid case, which admits of the growth of the brain, and prevents the effects of the pressure of the atmospherical air. The brain is covered on its upper part by the frontal, pa- rietal and occipital bones; its fore-part rests on the orbitar processes of the frontal bone, and its posterior part upon the process of the dura mater, called Tentorium cerebello-super- extensum. Owing to the peculiar form of the skull, and the diploe be- tween its component tables, the brain is not liable to suffer from external violence : thus, the effect of a blow is, to a cer- tain degree, averted, a shock being less readily communicated through the spongy diploe, than through more solid bone. The brain is somewhat of an oval form : it is broader be- hind than before; the sides are slightly compressed, and at the under part there are many projections and fissures, which correspond with the inequalities at the base of the skull. To the touch the brain is somewhat elastic. The brain varies a little in colour in different individuals, and in different animals, and at different ages. I have exa- mined it in a criminal about three hours after death, and found it to be of a greyish-brown tint in the adult. The co- lour, however, depends on the quantity of blood which is sent to it : hence it is redder in early than in advanced life, and becomes still more so in consequence of inflammation. In old age it becomes of a greyish colour, and also in per- sons who have died from dropsy or chronic disorders.