OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. 15? lateral surfaces of the prostate, which, spreading out on the lower part of the bladder., form the very strong fibres that are laid over the bladder at the point where it is perforated bv the ureter. Some very minute fibres of this portion are reflected upwards and backwards on the ureter, and seem to compose its longitudinal muscles. A fasciculus of fibres, the largest and most prominent on the outside of the bladder, arises from the posterior of the prostate, at the point of its attachment to the seminal vesicles. This bundle proceeds backwards and upwards, in a longitu- dinal direction, increasing a little in breadth as it ascends to the middle of the bladder, where it divides itself into three portions, the two lateral and central. From the middle of the bladder, the lateral portions com- mence, diverging forwards and upwards, in a curvilineal form, to the anterior of the bladder, whence they are seen passing downwards, in a circular direction, nearly as far as its neck. The central portion extends upwards, to a point situated about three inches from the urachus. Around this point they describe numerous circles on the summit and posterior part of the bladder, the most anterior fibres of which come in contact with the back of the base of the urachus. On detaching the highly elastic mucous membrane from the inner stratum, we find, that it firmly adheres to the mus- cular fibres by bloodvessels, and a cellular tissue, which is short, compact, and remarkably white. The mucous coat dips into the depressions between the muscular fibres. To- wards the neck of the bladder the membrane becomes gra- dually thinner and more transparent, adhering very closely at. the trigone. The muscular fibres of the inside of the bladder follow chiefly a transverse course, and they form distinct fasciculi at the back-part of the bladder, of a considerable breadth, be- ing very much separated from one another; resembling, in this respect, the pectinated muscles of the right auricle of the heart. These larger columns are connected by numerous slips of fibres, so that they appear to intersect each other at different angles. IJy this intersection of the