437 OF THE LACRYMAL SAC. and somewhat approaches to an oval. The lower end of it, which is connected with the nasal duct, is somewhat contiacted. This sac is composed of a tough white mucous membrane, of great vascularity, and is covered by the tendon of the orbicu- laris muscle, excepting at its upper rounded part, and by a layer of condensed cellular substance. This sac is lined by a mucous membrane. The tears, from various causes, are retained within the la- crymal sac, causing a swelling at the side of the nose, near to the inner angle of the eye: this tumour very frequently may be removed by slight pressure of the finger, as the tears thus pass down into the nose, or a part of the tears regurgitates through the puncta lacrymalia, and is mixed with inspissated mucus. The lower part of the lacrymal sac forms a duct, called Na- sal, which begins at the inner and under edge of the orbit, and is continued through a bony canal, till it opens in the nose. The nasal duct, which communicates with the lacrymal sac, is enclosed in a bony canal, formed by the superior max- illary bone and os unguis. The duct, which is about half an inch long, and of various diameters in different individuals, being, at an average, about the size of a surgeon’s probe, but sometimes as large as a goose-quill, runs obliquely backwards and downwards, and terminates at the lower surface of the in- ferior turbinated bone, by a contracted round aperture *. According to Jan in, the inferior orifice of the nasal duct is bounded by a valve or sphyncter, which he has asserted prevents the too rapid descent of the tears from the lacrymal sac. Winslow does not make mention of any such valve. Zinn has, however, described it. It appears to me, that there is a membranous fold, which lies across the extremity of the nasal duct; which, however, is much more appa- rent in some individuals than in others; and therefore the aperture is not invariably of the same size, and it is gene- • Vide Plale VI. Fig. 5. of my Father’s Treatise on the Eye and Lacry- mal Passage.