347 OF THE DURA MATER. Of the Coats of the Brain. In all red-blooded animals, the brain has three coats, the Dura mater, the Arachnoid Coat, and Pia mater. The dura mater is fixed very intimately to the internal ta- ble of the skull, by a number of bloodvessels and cellular threads, especially at the sutures, and hence has been called the Periosteum of the internal table of the Skull. The dura mater, the supposed origin of all the other se- rous membranes, gives a general covering to the brain and nerves connected with it. It is of a firm and compact texture, of a leaden, or rather purplish colour, and is made up of tendinous-like fibres, which differ much in size, and are disposed chiefly in a longi- tudinal direction on its outer surface; but, on its inner sur- face, the greater number of the fibres are transverse, and these are crossed by fibres following different directions. It is about a line in thickness, nearly opaque, and remark- ably tough. When the skull-cap has been removed, its outer surface appears rough and fiocculent; but, on its inter- nal surface, it is very smooth, and has a glistening appearance, being besmeared by a serous fluid, and hence is very readily separated from the subjacent arachnoid coat. Though this membrane, in its natural state, possesses but a small share of elasticity, or extensibility, it sometimes ad- mits of considerable extension from disease, as in those cases in which a large quantity of water has been collected within the ventricles of the brain, in consequence of the disunion of the bones of the skull. Perhaps, in this instance, there is an addition of matter to the membrane, as of muscular substance to the womb when it is extended from pregnancy. In consequence of extension from water accumulated with- in the brain, it has been occasionally ruptured*. The dura mater also lines the base of the skull. It insi- nuates itself into the foramen caecum of the frontal bone, and is firmly fixed into the crista galli and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; and it forms sheaths for the nerves and • Vide Med. Chir. Trans, of London, vol. viii. p. 51.