50 ELEMENTS OT ANATOMY. I hose veins which lie over the arteries seem to pulsate, but this seeming pulsation is derived from the subjacent artery; for it ceases as soon as the vein is drawn aside from the ar- tery. In some of the organic diseases of the heart, the large veins, in the vicinity of that organ, acquire a pulsation, which is ow- ing to the contraction of the auricle preventing, for a moment, the free entrance of the blood. The arteries being more immediately exposed to the im- pulse of the blood, which is projected with considerable force by that powerful muscle the heart, have thicker and stronger coats than the veins. The thickness of the coats cf the arteries is not uniform ; it bears a ratio to the situation cf the artery : thus the coats of the pulmonary artery are thinner than those of the aorta. The smaller arteries, in proportion to their size, arc stronger than the larger trunks, as has been ascertained by fixing weights to them. Sir C. Wintiiingham tried many experiments on the strength of the coats of the arteries, by injecting air into them, and found it to be very considerable; he says, the aorta, of a young subject, near the heart, was burst, by a force equal to 119 lb. 5 oz., the splenic artery by 41 lb. 8 oz., and that the strength of the renal artery to the aorta was as 51 to 40. There is a certain balance between the muscular power of the heart and the resistance of the arteries, which, when de- stroved, leads to disease, as it occasions a deranged state of action of the sanguiferous system. When the parietes of the heart have attained an unnatural size, the pulse becomes in- termitting and irregular, and sometimes slow; and the heart may be felt contracting slowly. The functions of the lungs are also impaired, not only by increased bulk of the heart, but also on account of the effusion of water within the chest; the usual concomitant of morbid enlargement of the heart. The arteries possess a considerable share of elasticity, and their sides do not collapse, even when empty; hence an ar- tery, when divided, presents a circular orifice. t