OF THE TONGUE 465 shall describe, only that branch of the third 'part of the fifth pair of nerves, which is proper to the tongue. This branch passes between the pterygoid muscles, and it then sends off a ganglion, from which some small nerves pass to tlie inferior maxillary gland. This nerve lies beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle, in its pro- gress to the tongue; and at length it terminates on the upper and fore part of that organ. The eighth pair of nerves sends off a branch called Glosso- Pharyngeus, which is distributed upon the tonsil, the upper part of the pharynx, the epiglottis, and the middle of the root of the tongue. It passes behind the carotid artery, and to- wards the muscles arising from the styloid process of the tem- poral bone. The ninth pair of nerves is connected with the under and lateral portions of the corpora pyramidalia. The nerves of the opposite sides are there conjoined. Having passed through the anterior condyloid foramen, it is connected with the eighth pair and great sympathetic nerve : it emerges behind the internal jugular vein, and then passes over the carotid artery. It then goes under the mylo- hyoideus muscle, and over the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, to which last it gives several branches, and supplies the middle part of the tongue, and joins with the minuter ramifications of the lingual branch of the fifth pair. Where this nerve passes between the carotid artery and in- ternal jugular vein, it gives off a small branch, which passes down the neck, in front of the internal jugular vein, and has been called Descendens Noni. The tongue is supplied by a large branch of the external carotid artery; which, from being distributed upon the tongue, has been called the Ranine Artery; the course of which has been described in page 242 of this volume. \\ hen this artery has been successfully filled with a red co- loured injection, the whole tongue assumes a very red colour, md the villi are rendered very conspicuous. On account of