492 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. deum, and almost immediately divides into branches, which pass through the substance of the parotid gland ; and as the distribution of these branches resembles, in form, a goose’s foot, anatomists have made mention of the Pcs anserinus, which is divided into four principal fasciculi. The uppermost may be called the Temporal, as the nerves are distributed upon the temporal; the second the Superior Maxillary, as the branches are spent upon the parts connected with the up- per-jaw ; the third and fourth the Inferior Maxillary, and Cervical, for a similar reason. Professor Meckel has described and represented these se- veral fasciculi of nerves with very great minuteness, and to his accurate description I beg leave to refer the reader; as also to the engravings of Mr Swan and Mr C. Bell *. The branches of the portio dura unite with the second and third branches of the fifth pair. My Father, in making men- tion of the conjunction of these nerves, has observed -f*: “ The most remarkable connection of this kind is in the human face, where the portio dura, of the auditory nerve is joined to the second and third branches of the fifth pair of nerves. Many of these nerves joined are so small, that it is difficult to trace the fibrils of which they consist; but, in the larger branches, both in man and in the ox, I have certainly found, that the smaller branches, which come off beyond the union of two larger nerves, consist of fibres from both.” Some of the branches of the temporal fasciculus run over, and others under, the branches of the temporal artery, and unite with the frontal branches of the fifth pair. The branches of the superior maxillary fasciculus commu- nicate with the first and second branches of the fifth pair, of which my Father has published an engraving. The branches of the irferior maxillary fasciculus advance along the under-jaw, and are dispersed upon the muscles proper to it and the upper-lip; they are connected with some of the branches of the superior maxillary fasciculus, and also with branches of the third part of the fifth pair. • Phil. Trans. + Vide Nervous System, p. 48.