120 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. varying extremely in their figure. Thus, in the ovaria, we find many spherical bags filled with a pellucid liquor, which we cannot press back into the bloodvessels, nor do we find any duct leading from the bag. “ In like manner, I have found, that the fat universally, whether, what we call marrow, within the bones, or the fat which is under the skin and elsewhere, is deposited into sphe- rical sacs, none of which exceed the gi^th or K t_th part of an inch in diameter; and although, from the example of the omentum chiefly, there is reason to suppose that the fat ex- udes, no holes or ducts for its transmission are visible, but it lias the appearance of being lodged within such sacs. “ Many spherical sacs, containing mucus, are visible to the naked eye, with a hole in one side of the sac, for discharging the mucus, on the membrane of the nose, the back part of the tongue, the palate in quadrupeds, the pharynx, stomach, in- testinal tube, and within the biliary ducts, or within the cer- vix uteri. “ In other parts, the slime is contained in tubes nearly cy- lindrical, open at one end. At the root of some of these I have observed one or two conical sacs, opening into the cylin- der. Such are found in the urethra of both sexes, and around the mouth of the vagina. “ In the amygdalae the mucus is contained within irregu- lar shaped large cells, which communicate with each other, and are pierced, on their inner sides, with holes for its dis- charge, the number of which varies in different persons. “ Within the trachea, the slime is discharged by ducts, vi- sible to the naked eye, which come from glands, which I have observed, not only on the soft back part of the trachea, but disposed in circles between its cartilaginous rings. Small branches, from different parts of these tracheal glands, form each of the ducts, as I have observed with the microscope *. “ I have found, by injections with wax, that very large and minute branches within the prostate gland uniting, form the • Vid. Plate IV. Fig. 6-