255 OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ANEURISM. stop the circulation or not. In doing this, one of the sides of the ligature was cut through in the eye of the instrument, which had not been properly rounded off, but at a consider- able distance from the bottom of the wound. Having laid hold of the end again, and ascertained that one of the nerves, to which the pulsation had been communicated, was sur- rounded instead of the vessel, I retained the ligature, for the purpose of holding the parts out of the way, till, by a little cautious dissection, I exposed the artery as it passes through the scaleni. Here, however, I had reason to believe the ves- sel unsound, partaking so far of the aneurismal dilatation, and determined on securing it nearer the heart. In this part of the operation, I received the greatest assistance from the spatulas recommended by Dr Colles of Dublin. I was indebted to an old pupil of his for a set of them, which he brought me before the operation. Those I used were made of sheet cop- per ; they are so soft as to be bent easily to any shape, which they retain. With them my assistants, whilst their hands were out of the way> were enabled to hold aside the surround- ing soft parts on all sides, so as to protect them from the knife; to prevent oozing from the small vessels; and, at the same time, give me a complete view of the bottom of the wound. These spatulas are of the greatest use in the ligature of all deep-seated vessels, the iliacs, &c. or in any deep dissection whatever. In fact, I consider them as the greatest addition made to our surgical instruments for many years. Having thus, then, gained a view of the vessel, and ascertained its condition, I proceeded cautiously to divide the scalenus anti- cus. Having cut through its whole thickness, to about its middle, in order to avoid the phrenic nerve, I contented my- self with denuding the artery, by separating those fibres next it, leaving the more superficial ones entire. In this way, as if by burrowing under the muscle, the artery was fully ex- posed for the passage of the ligature. This part of the ope- ration, which, by all who have attempted it, is considered the most difficult, and for which so many proposals have been made, and instruments invented, was at once accomplished with the simple needle, which I had employed in many cases