OF THE HE All T. 29 fibres of the human heart take their origin from the ventro- auricular opening, and from that origin pass obliquely down- wards and forwards from the right to the left ventricle. Those fibres which surround the ventricles, reach the apex of the heart, and are reflected around it. Within the thin external stratum there are transverse fi- bres having a similar origin. Several of these are folded inwards to form the partition of the heart, the greater part of which is formed by the continuation of the muscular fibres of the posterior ventricle; and these fibres, after winding around the heart, terminate in the columnas carneae. In the transverse section of the ventricles, the fibres are so disposed, that the heart seems to be composed of three dis- tinct bao-s, one of which contains the other two,—the an- terior ventricle, and the posterior or rounder ventricle. The muscular fibres of the posterior ventricle are disposed somewhat like the worm of a cork-screw *. Bv the contraction of the muscular fibres of the ventricles, the opposite sides of the ventricles approach each other, and the apex is drawn nearer to the basis. In consequence of the very remarkable disposition of these oblique muscular fibres of the heart, the fibres are nearly one-fourth part longer than the distance between their origin and their termination, and (as Sir E. Home has observed), the action of the two sets being in different directions, ren- ders only one-half the quantity of contraction in each fibre necessary that would have been otherwise required; while the turn both sets make in opposite directions at the apex of the ventricle, fixes it, and prevents lateral motion. The muscular fibres of the heart surround the origin of the pulmonary artery, but do not encircle the aorta. • The course of the muscular fibres of the human heart has been well repre- sented by Mr William Cowprr, in the 2d and 3d figures of his 42d Table, Lond. 1698; and also still more faithfully in five different figures in the 36th I’late of his Treatise on the Muscles of the Human Body, published 1724.