OF THE SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. 493 The cervicalfasciculus pass beneath the under-jaw ; some of the branches run near to the external jugular vein, to the platysma myoides, and skin of the neck; and they communi- cate with the uppermost cervical nerves. On account of the union of the portio dura with the branches of the fifth pair of nerves, Mr C. Bell has endeavoured to prove, that these nerves perform different offices. He di- vided the portio dura of one side, when the animal was pant- ing, and forcibly dilating its nostrils. The motion of the nostril of the same side instantly ceased, whilst the other parts of the respiratory organs were excited, and while the opposite side and nostril acted in unison with the chest. When the portio dura of one side was cut, and ammo- nia presented to the nose, the same side remained quite re- laxed ; and the other was curled up, with the peculiar ex- pression of sneezing. The slightest touch on the portio dura convulsed the mus- cles of the face, hut caused no pain. The reverse was the case with the fifth ; touching it gave great pain; but there was more difficulty in exciting the muscles. The observations of Mr Mayo *, and the following case, which occurred to Mr Wallace, do not accord with the ex- periments of Mr Bell. “ Some years ago says he, “ there occurred to me, du- ring my dissections, a very unusual arrangement of the nerves of the face. All that part of the facial of the right side, which is distributed to the side of the face and temples was wanting, and its place supplied by a trunk from the second division of the trifacial; which trunk turned round the posterior edge of the ramus of the jaw, and emerged through the parotid, ha- ving an appearance extremely like the facial, in ordinary cir- cumstances. I had fortunately known the individual, when alive, and there was not any thing remarkable in the expres- sion of his countenance. The conclusion to which I was, of course, irresistibly led, by this lusus was, that these nerves • Anat, and Physiol. Com. No. I. London, 1822. \ Vide Quarterly Medical Journal, No, xxiv. p. 301. for April 1822.