514 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. downwards, the fingers were complained of. He has fre- quently, after the smarting of dressing was over, with great accuracy, pointed out on my arm the course of the internal cutaneous nerve, as the site of his ideal pain; often he ha9 described that of the external; and, on one occasion, I, with utter astonishment, had the general neurology of my arm and fingers traced by him. But unless the ligatures were pulled at, he had no other uneasy sensations than those which usual- ly occur in persons whose limbs have been amputated. Once only did I ever know him refer his pain to the seat of the sensorium itself. On that occasion, from using an artery for- ceps to the ligatures, on which the slide moved rather stiffly, I exerted a greater force than I had intended. He convul- sively put his hand to his head, expressed a sense of exquisite pain in his brain, involuntary tears dropped from his eyes, a paralytic contraction momentarily affected his mouth, an uni- versal paleness spread over the uncovered parts of his body ; {ind, although unusually tolerant of pain, and of a most re- markable equanimity of temper, he uttered a piercing cry, and exclaimed, “ that the agony in his head and neck was in- sufferable.” The following nerves are derived from the axillary plexus: 1. A number of small nerves to the subscapulary, te- res major, and latissimus dorsi muscles. 2. The External Thoracic Nerves, which accompany the external thoracic arteries to the pectoral muscles, mam- mae, and skin over these. Dr Mason Good *, has described, at great length, the case of a poor woman who suffered much from neuralgia of the mamma, which could not be removed by an external applica- tion. There was no degree of pain, of inflammation, or hard- ness in the breast; but, during the paroxysm, the whole breast was acutely sensible. The paroxysms returned five or six times in the course of the day, and were short and transient. He adds, “ the twitching or snatches in the shoulder were at Vol. iii. p. 297,