169 OF THE UllETHRA. in*j downwards from the symphysis pubis, and as joining un- der this portion of the urethra. These muscular fibres, by their contraction upon the semen, during its course through the urethra, may prevent it from being driven backwards, by the contraction of the acceleratores urinae; and as Mr Wil- son has stated, by pressing the membranous part of the ure- thra against the symphysis pubis, may materially diminish the caliber of the canal of the urethra. The contraction of these muscles may also impede the pas- sage of an instrument into the bladder. The membranous portion of the urethra is covered by a part of the levator ani, and it is also inclosed within a plexus of veins, which were discovered, and have been particularly described by Mr Wilson of London *. The rest of the urethra is included within what has been called a Spongy substance, which has been supposed, by some anatomists, to be of a cellular structure, but which evidently consists of a plexus of small veins which describe a tortuous course. The bulk of this corpus spongiosum depends upon the quantity of blood which it contains ; ancl in the Negro, in whom all the parts are larger than in the European, I have observed, that, after the veins of the corpus spongiosum urethras have been filled by injection, the bulb of the urethra fills almost the whole of the space between the ossa pubis, so that it would be impossible to perform ‘the lateral operation of lithotomy, without cutting the bulb of the urethra. During the erection of the penis, the corpus spongiosum urethrae is distended like to the corpora cavernosa penis. The smaller tortuous veins of the corpus spongiosum may be rea- dily filled from the large vein of the dorsum of the penis. This spongy substance, which is covered by the same cel- lular sheath as the corpora cavernosa penis, begins in the form of a conical-shaped process, the apex of which passes obliquely downwards, in the direction of the perinaeum, between the crura penis; it is covered below, and at its sides, by the • Vide p. 152. of his work on the Urinary and Genital Organs.