189 OF THE TESTES OF THE FCETUS. born in the seventh, eighth, or beginning of the ninth month. Three had both testes in the scrotum ; in three they were lodged in the groin ; and in three they were found in the ab- domen. In 12 out of these 103 cases, where one or both testes re- mained in the abdomen, in one the testes reached the scrotum on the day of birth ; in three it took place on the second day, in an equal number on the third, in two on the fifth, and in one on the twenty-first day ; and in the remaining individuals, they had not reached the scrotum on the fourth and fifth weeks. The preceding account of the original situation of the tes- ticle, and of its subsequent descent, explains the difference between that kind of hernia called Hernia congenita, and the common scrotal hernia. In the former, the inguinal canal is open, and the pro- truded portion of intestine folloAvs the testis into the scrotum, and incloses it; whereas, in the latter, the protruded intestine and testicle are contained in distinct sacs. In many adults, the canals through which the testes pass are not completely obliterated, but only a little constricted; and hence a hernia congenita is occasioned by some violent exer- tion, which forces the constricted canal. There is considerable difficulty in reducing such a hernia, owing to the orifice of the hernial sac being much contracted above the under abdominal aperture. The name Congenital is objectionable, as conveying an in- correct idea of the precise nature of the disease, which is more frequent a short time after birth than at the jnoment of birth, and sometimes does not shew itself until manhood. The stricture, in this kind of hernia, may be seated at the top, or in the middle of the canal : hence the size and figure of this hernia is various; if, for instance, the stricture be near to the under part of the canal, the tumour will be of an oblong form, and equally large at its upper and middle part; and the tumour passes out perpendicularly from the abdomen, because the spermatic chord of an infant, when newly born, does not pass obliquely through the parietes of the abdomen.