ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 10 the elevation of the ribs, and, speaking, of this subject, has observed : “ The chief circumstances which prove, beyond a doubt, that the two rows of intercostal muscles conspire in elevating the ribs, are, “ 1. That the first rib is so much fixed at both its ends as to be almost immoveable; and its cartilage, instead of being connected to the sternum by a capsular ligament, or articu- lated with it in the same manner as the cartilages of the other ribs, grows as firmly to the sternum as to the rib. “ 2. That the second rib is more fixed than the third ; and the third more fixed than the fourth ; and so on down- wards. “ 3. That as the ribs, from the first rib downwards, grow gradually longer, and describe portions of larger circles, we may observe that, in general, or when we ex- amine a middle proportion of the intercostal muscles, or a portion half way between the sternum and vertebrae, the insertion of the lower end of the portion is at a greater distance from either end of the lower rib, or from a straight line drawn between the two ends of that rib, than its origin in the rib above is from the two ends of that rib, or from a straight line drawn between them. Hence whether we consi- der the head of the rib, connected with the vertebrae, as its centre of motion, or whether we consider the rib as moving upon a straight line or axis drawn between its twro ends, it follows, that a muscle placed between two ribs acts with a longer lever upon the under rib than upon the upper one, and therefore must elevate the under rib. “ 4. To determine the effect of the contraction of any muscle, I apprehend, we need only to observe in the dead body what the situation is in which the muscle in question is relaxed. Applying this rule, wre shall find, that the whole intercostal muscles, internal as well as external, are shortened when we elevate the ribs, and place them in that situation in which we find they are in inspiration. « 5. If the internal intercostal muscles had been intended