286 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. of the pelvis, having their concomitant veins on their inner side, or next to the contents of the pelvis; and, when nearly opposite to the sacro-iliac symphysis, they are divided into two large arteries, named the Anterior and Posterior Iliac Arteries. The former continues its course along the brim of the pelvis, but the latter sinks into the cavity of the pelvis, and divides into the umbilical, vesical, and pudendal branches. Of the Branches of the Posterior Iliac or Hypogastric Artery. This artery passes downwards and backwards for two inches. It is larger than the anterior iliac artery in the adult, and much more so in the foetus. The first branches sent off have been called the Ilio-Lum- har Arteries. These take their rise from the back part of the parent trunk, and they are concealed between the psoas and internal iliac muscles. They give off several small branches to the psoas muscles, and the lowest vertebra of the loins. There are commonly four Sacro-Lateral Arteries, which come off from the posterior iliac arteries, from the gluteal, and sometimes from the ilio-lumbar arteries. The branches of these arteries communicate with the sa- cro-media artery. There are other branches which enter the foramina of the sacrum, and are distributed upon the cauda equina; and branches of this artery communicate with the superior arteries of the spinal cord. The next considerable branch is the umbilical Artery. This artery passes down as far as the lowest part of the blad- der. It is then reflected, and ascends along the side of the bladder, with which it is connected by cellular substance. It is directed upwards to the navel; and, in the adult, is gene- rally quite impervious; but for the space of one or two inches in that part of the artery which remains open, three or four smaller arteries are sent to the bladder of urine, and there are very small branches which go to the sides of the rectum. From the arteries common to the bladder of urine, small arteries arc sent to the vesicular seminalcs and prostate gland.