ELEMENTS OF AN ATOM V. 62 arteries and veins, I shall add, in the form of induction, a few general observations respecting the circulation of the blood. ls£, The blood which flows from the left ventricle is dis- tributed by the arteries to almost every part of the body, (ex- cepting to the cuticle, hair, and enamel of the teeth), and re- turns to the heart by means of the veins, which end in the right auricle. The use of the heart is to assist in propelling the blood through the arteries, and to receive it from the veins, the former of which are filled by blood of a brilliant scarlet colour, and the latter by blood of a dark purple colour. 2d, It is obvious that the structure of the heart has a re- ference to the lungs; it is a double organ : There are two hearts, one proper to the lungs, another proper to the rest of the body ; or there is a particular circulation through the lungs, and a general circulation through the rest of the body. '6d, The heart, arteries and veins, are hollow muscles, and by contracting expel the included blood ; and they are mus- cles of considerable strength, as has been proved by Sir Clif- ton WlNTRINGIIAM. 4th, The heart is an organ of involuntary motion; its ac- tion being not at all dependent on the will; neither does it depend upon the brain or nerves : For the heart continues to contract immediately after the head has been removed *, and * My Father long ago remarked, in his book upon the Nervous System, that the heart of a frog continues to act for some time when cut out of the body ; and also that a frog continues to live, and even to move its limbs for two days after it has been decapitated. Mr Cruickshanks (1) observed, that if an animal was pithed, by dividing the spinal marrow in the upper part of the neck, lespiration ceased; but the heart continued to act, circulating dark coloured blood ; and from ten to fifteen mi- nutes elapsed before the circulation ceased^ Mr Bichat (2) and Mr Brodie (3) have also remarked, that the brain is not di- rectly necessary to the action of the heart, and that when the functions of the brain are destroyed, the circulation ceases only in consequence of the suspension of respiration ; and the latter gentleman also found, that if respiration was pro- duced artificially, the heart continued to act for a still longer period after the removal of the brain. (1) London Phil. Trans, for 1795. (2) Vid. bis Book Sur la Vic et sur la Mort; also his Anat. General. (3) Vid. London Phil. Trans, for 1810. I