433 or THE TENSOR TARSI. creased much beyond what is commonly observed. It is de- monstrated by an ability to draw both the eyelids of one eye towards the nose, at the same time shortening so much the space between the puncta lacrymalia and the junction of the eyelids, that the puncta are buried in the corner of the eye, and carried out of sight. “ It would be interesting to know what is its healthy in- fluence on the condition of the sacculus lacrymalis and la- chrymal ducts, in forwarding the tears from the eye to the nose; and whether we are right in attributing this circum- stance entirely to the capillary attraction of the puncta, and to the pressure of the orbicularis muscle. It is somewhat surprising, that the idea of an apparatus, more perfect than what is commonly described, for regulating the position of the puncta lacrymalia, had not occurred be- fore ; and that anatomists, in the dissection of the part, had not observed it. The latter, I think, has arisen from the manner in which the dissection, for the muscles of the eye-lids, is generally performed. Removing the skin, and exposing the orbicularis and ciliaris muscles, we think the dissection com- pletely made; whereas, a most interesting part of the struc- ture is unattended to. Also in working for the lacrymal ducts and sac, this muscle is indiscriminately cut away, with the orbicularis. “ While investigating this subject, my attention was called to a fact, by Dr Harlan, the observation of which is origi- nally with him. The puncta lacrymalia have a power of pro- jecting themselves beyond the plane of the eye-lid in which they lie, and have an equally obvious power of retracting themselves, so as to do away all appearance of prominence. I do not understand the cause of the first motion, but the second depends upon the muscle just described*.” I he foregoing account of the Tensor Tarsi muscle was communicated to the American Philosophical Society in March 1822 —See Transactions for the year 1824.. VOL. n. F C