616 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. but a few hours, whereas others lingered under the disease for two, four, ten, or even twenty, years. There are many in- stances of children being born dead who bore all the marks of the venereal disease. The foetus in utero has also been attacked with small-pox, in consequence of the mother having been exposed to the contagion of that disease. In the fourth place, The foetus in utero may die from the partial or total separation of the placenta, and in these cir- cumstances it appears bloodless, and like a piece of wax; and when examined after death, the bloodvessels appear empty. 5th, The ossification of the placenta is a cause of great de- bility of the foetus, or of its death. I have had occasion to meet with three instances of this organic derangement of the placenta, and they occurred during the successive preg- nancies of the same woman ; the children, though weak, sur- vived ; and the woman had afterwards four healthy children, and the placentas were quite natural. Gih, The child may be destroyed by the twisting of the umbilical cord round its neck. In these circumstances, the circulation through the blood may be impeded by the action of the womb ; or, by the stricture of the cord upon the neck, by which the return of the blood through the jugular veins of the child may be impeded. In such a case, there is an ecchymosis round the neck. 7th, By a rupture of the umbilical cord the child may be destroyed if not born in time to breathe. 8th, The foetus may be destroyed, from the premature ex- pulsion of the cord. According to Carpuron apoplexy ge- nerally follows. 9th, The foetus may be destroyed when the trunk of the body is expelled as far as the neck, and the head is long re- retained. Death is occasioned by pressure on the cord, cr by the weight of the body pulling the neck, in other words, by strangulation. 10th, When the long diameter of the chest is presented to the short diameter of the pelvis, the shoulders are retained af- ter the head is born; this gives rise to great difficulty in breathing, owing to the pressure made upon the chest.