ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 482 These papillae have been commonly supposed to be formed by the terminations of the nerves of the skin, and of a plexus of small bloodvessels. I have employed the word supposed, because, on account of the extreme smallness of the papillae, it is extremely difficult, perhaps I might say impossible, by dis- section, to trace the minute filaments of the nerves into these. In the skin of the belly and thighs of women who have had children, there is a growth of an imperfect new skin, between the other parts of the true skin. Has the skin a muscular ac- tion ? In the forehead, neck, and perhaps scrotum, there are muscles which somewhat resemble that muscle called Panni- culus carnosus of the horse and dog, which lies immediately below the skin, and which corrugates the skin of the animal. The true skin is perforated by lymphatic vessels, but their orifices cannot be demonstrated in the human body, probably on account of their small size ; but in the skate-fish, as an in- jection passes from the larger trunks into the smaller branches of the absorbents, the orifices of these vessels can be shewn*. Chemical Analysis of the Cutis Vera. The true skin consists chiefly of jelly ; unites with tannin and forms leather, a substance that is insoluble in water ; and, owing to this combination, leather possesses its peculiar pro- perties. The cutis vera is a peculiar modification of jelly ; and part- ly by the compactness of its texture, and partly by the visci- dity of the jelly of which it is formed, resists the action of moisture ; for those skins which dissolve the most readily in boiling water, afford the worst glue. Of the Sebaceous Glands of the Shin. The skin is covered with an oily matter, which stains lin- en that has been worn for some time; especially that part of it which has been in contact with the axillae and perineum. Tins oily matter is secreted most abundantly from those parts of the skin which are exposed to friction. • Vide Dr Monro on Fishes.