ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 362 ing between these two medullary plates, as a fifth ventricle. When water has been accumulated within the brain, the sep- tum lucid urn is very often torn ; for it is often reduced to a sort of pidp, not only in the brain of a young person, but also in the brain of persons far advanced in life, in whom all the parts of this organ are generally much more dense than during infancy ; and this remarkable softening of the septum lucidum is not the concomitant of a general softening of the brain, but sometimes it is limited to the septum. The fornix is the continuation of the corpus callosum and septum lucidum ; and has been so named from its resemblance to a vault. It has four crura or pillars, two short anterior, and two longer and posterior, which are placed at a distance from each other ; are curved ; and, descending into the mid- dle or inferior cornua of the lateral ventricles, form distinct processes, which have thin puckered edges, and have been called The Corpora Fimbriata, or by Vico, D’azyr, Taenia Hippocampi, as they are united to the greater hippocampus. The under part of the fornix is joined to the thalami ner- vorum opticorum, by a vascular membrane called Tela Cho- roidea, which cuts off the communication between the lateral ventricles, excepting, at an oval aperture situated under the anterior crura of the fornix. The choroid plexuses are formed by small branches of the arteria media fossae Sylvii. These enter the inferior portions * of the middle lobes of the lateral ventricles, and divide into a number of very small branches, which follow a very tortuous course. The choroid plexuses lie along the lower, broader, and rounder extremities of the hippocampi majores: they after- wards ascend, pass forwards and towards the anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles, and lie over the thalami nervorum opticorum, and corpora striata, becoming gradually narrower. The choroid plexuses of opposite sides meet at the passage of communication between the lateral ventricles, in ananow There is an oval hole, situated under the anterior part of point.