OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 591 In this country, these glands are very frequently much en- larged, and prove the cause of tabes mesenterica. The number of the lacteal or mesenteric glands is very considerable; there is between 100 and 150 of them. As the lacteal vessels of the jejunum are more numerous than those^of any other part of the smaller intestines, so the glands connected with this part of the intestine are most nu- merous ; and the greater number of these are situated on the left side of the mesenteric artery. In some places they are grouped together, and especially at the root of the mesen- tery. The lacteal vessels which enter these glands, are called Lacteals of the first order, or Vasa Irferentia ; and those which issue out of the glands, lacteals of the second order, or Vasa Ejfcrcntia. The several lacteal vessels ultimately form two or three large trunks, which accompany the trunk of the superior me- senteric artery, and generally these open into the beginning of the thoracic duct, or they pass downwards, and join with the lymphatic vessels of the inferior extremities, and concur with them in forming the receptacle of the chyle. The lymphatic vessels of the stomach are rarely visible in the sound body : they are small, as no chyle is formed in the stomach. The lymphatic vessels of the stomach pass along its cur- vatures : some of them accompany the superior coronary ar- tery, and in their course pass through small glands, situated at the juncture of the omentum minus with the stomach, and enter other glands, along with the deeper-seated lymphatic vessels, which end in the middle of the thoracic duct. Those lymphatics which follow the course of the greater curvature, pass to the right, and partly to the left side, and join with the lymphatic vessels of the spleen and pancreas; others pass into glands near to the origin of the cceliac artery. Of the Lymphatic VesseU of the Liver, Spleen, and Pancreas. The lymphatic vessels of the liver are disposed in two sets; those that run on the surface, and those that are proper to the vol. ir. ‘ oo