84 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. ing artery, vein and nerve *. The bronchi are similar to the trachea in structure, excepting in being completely surrounded by segments of cartilage, in order that they might not be compressed and rendered impervious by the weight of the lungs. These smaller branches of the bronchi terminate in the very small tubes commonly called the membranous tubes, which are continued from the bronchi to the air-cells. In the small branches of the bronchi, the orifices of the mucous ducts are by no means of the same size as in the trunk of the wind- pipe ; they seem to be in proportion to the size of the canal with which they are connected. When the windpipe has been slightly inflamed, the mucus is at first secreted in larger quantity than is usual, but as the inflammation subsides, it assumes a greenish hue. We do not distinctly see muscular fibres in these, probably on account of their extreme small size; notwithstanding which, it appears probable to me, that they possess a muscular power to enable them to expel their contents accurately. It has been very generally supposed, that, in the spasmodic asthma, the muscular fibres of the bronchi occasion the difficulty of breathing. But the cartilaginous seg- ments prevent them from being contracted to such a degree as to have this effect; and in the cells there is not only no appear- ance of muscular fibres, but after they collapse in moribund animals, no contraction is excited when these are stimulated, but a general contraction of them, and diminution of the cavity of the lungs, such as is supposed in asthmatic persons, cannot take place, unless the lungs were to act with such force as to se- parate themselves from the pleura costalis, by overcoming the whole weight of the atmosphere, and forming a void between them and the pleura costalis. The spasm, therefore, seems to be seated chiefly in the transverse and oblique arytenoid muscles of the larynx, which have the power of completely shutting the glottis. In support of this opinion, it may be observed, that the asthmatic have a sense of suffocation about the larynx, and Vid. Plate IV.