338 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. turn and testis of the male, and upon the round ligament of the female uterus, and external parts of generation ; and the other branch creeps along the femoral artery, and termi- nates on the fore-part of the thigh. A third branch passes behind the psoas, and across the iliacus internus, and is dis- tributed upon the muscles of the upper and inner part of the thigh, and terminates upon the vastus internus, near to the knee. Branches of the second, third and fourth lumbar nerves, form a nerve which has been named Obturator. This nerve passes behind the psoas muscle, and then downwards and for- wards, to the aperture in the ligamentous membrane, which shuts up the foramen obturatorium. This nerve accompanies the branches of the obturator artery, and supplies the obtura- tor internus and pectineus muscles, and then divides into two parts, which are distributed upon the adductor and gracilis muscles of the thigh. The third and fourth lumbar pairs of nerves are consi- derably larger than the preceding, and from them the follow- ing nerves are derived. The Crural Nerve arises from the middle of the lumbar plexus : it lies beneath the psoas muscle, v'hich detaches branches to the iliacus internus and psoas; and, passing be- hind the crural arch, and on the iliac side of the femoral ar- tery, is distributed upon the muscles and skin of the upper and lateral parts of the thigh, and is subdivided into subcuta- neous branches, which are spent upon the middle, fore and inner part of the thigh, and into deeper seated and larger branches, which supply the pectineus muscles, the sartorius, triceps adductor femoris, and the four large extensor mus- cles of the leg. A branch of this nerve accompanies the femoral artery, till that artery passes between the great adductor muscle and the thigh-bone : the nerve then passes along the front of the adductor, in a tendinous sheath, formed by that muscle and the vastus internus. This nerve accompanies the ve- na saphaena, and has been called by Fischer the Nervus Saphanus. This nerve supplies the inner and fore-part of