304 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and that next to it, and communicates with the external plan- tar artery. This artery is very constant in its course. But I once had occasion to see an instance, in which that artery passed along the side of the upper part of the foot, and communicated first with the fibular artery, and then passed between the meta- tarsal lines of the little toe, and that next to it, and communi- cated with the external plantar artery. This artery usually gives off the following branches: the recurrent, after it has passed through the interosseous li- gament, which is spent upon the muscles of the upper part of the leg, and which anastomoses with the inferior articulating artery of the knee-joint: A number of small branches to the muscles on the fore part of the leg: The external and internal malleolar arteries, which supply the ancle-joint and neighbour- ing part of the tarsus ; the latter of which anastomoses with the posterior and peroneal artery : The tarsal arteries, which run along the extensor digitorum brevis : The metatarsal ar- tery, which runs towards the root of the little toe, and sends off those small branches which supply the interosseous mus- cles. The continuation of the artery proceeds between the exten- sors of the great and smaller toes; and the principal part of the artery passes to the sole of the foot, between the metatarsal bones of the great and second toes. There are a few branches detached from the artery before it reaches the sole of the foot, which are distributed upon the metatarsal bones of the toes. The posterior tibial artery is situated under the origin of the soleus muscle ; passes to the lower part of the tibia ; and then divides, about an inch below the rise of the tibialis antica, into the Tibial and Fibular arteries. The FiBURAR is the smaller of these branches; it runs down the leg along the fibula, between the tibialis posticus, and flex- or longus pollicis ; and, near to the bottom of the leg, divides into the anterior and posterior peroneal branches. The pero- >iea anterior passes through the interosseous ligament, and communicates with the external malleolar arteries. The pe-