445 OF THE SENSE OF HEARING. propagated through the different media, air, water, and solid bodies. My Father proved by his experiments, that sound is com- municated as rapidly through water as through air, but the tone is somewhat altered. One of the cavities of the human ear is tilled by air, another by an aqueous fluid ; and we are capable of hearing by the medium of solid substances, as when a communication is formed between the sounding body and the bones of the skull. Fishes hear only by the agitation communicated to the water by sounds. The modifications of sound are very various, and the hu- man ear is capable of appreciating many hundred tones ; and by habit we acquire a knowledge of the source from which sound proceeds. Buffon, who examined with care several persons who had no ear for music, states that these persons did not hear equally well with both ears, and has imputed their want of the mu- sical ear to that defect. But in my opinion, the sense of hear- ing and the musical ear are widely different. Most men hear well; but many are destitute of a musical ear, and there are many instances of persons who are excessively dull of hear- ing, who are still passionately fond of music, and even great composers, Such I have heard is the state of that very great composer Beethoven. Some men who possessed a musical ear are deprived of it, but still retain the sense of hearing ; of which I had occasion to meet with a most striking example. A gentleman of mid- dle age, who was much distinguished by his science in music, and his vocal powers, suddenly lost his musical ear, and to so great a degree as to be unable to take a part in duet. He had no one obvious symptom indicating a disease of the brain or ear. He continued in that state for several years. A‘ length he recovered to a certain extent his musical ear; but for four years before his death, which was occasioned by apoplexy, he again lost his musical ear, and all enjoyment in music. It has been a favourite opinion with some, that the hearing’ of children is not so acute as that of adults, because the pars