OF THE NERVES OF THE ARM. 515 one time so considerable, as to give the patient an idea, to use her own words, “ that something was alive there.’1 3. The superior scapulary nerves are connected with the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and pass through the se- milunar notch in the superior costa of the scapula. The branches of this nerve supply the supra-spinatus muscle, and other muscles on the back of the scapula. 4. The inferior scapulary nerves pass along the lower edge of the subscapulary muscle, and accompany the infra- scapulary artery, and sends branches to the latissimus dorsi. 5. The articular nerves, which sink deep in the axil- la, pass along the under-edge of the subscapularis. It almost surrounds the neck of the os humeri. These nerves appear to be connected chiefly with the trunk common to the fourth and fifth cervical nerves. These nerves accompany the pos- terior circumflex artery, around the os humeri. From thig plexus, small nerves are distributed upon the teres major and the deltoid muscles, and also on the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. I had occasion to be consulted by a gentle- man whose shoulder had been dislocated. For ten months afterwards, he could not raise his arm, which probably origi- nated from the injury done to this nerve, which is spent upon the deltoid muscle. 6. The radial or median nerve is connected with the lower part of the axiilary plexus. This nerve is placed be- fore the trunk of the humeral artery, to which it is intimately united by cellular substance; and it accompanies it to the el- bow-joint ; and, at the elbow-joint, the nerve is placed on the inner side of the artery. At the elbow-joint it passes over the tendon of the brachialis intemus ; and having perforated the back part of the pronator teres, descends between the flexor carpi raclialis and flexor sublimis, to which muscle it sends off small branches, near to the elbow. This nerve gives off branches, which go to the pro- nator teres muscle, and the flexor carpi radialis and sublimis. From the radial nerve, a large branch, called interosseous, is derived, as it passes along the interosseous ligament. k k 3