QF THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 439 nose, is sometimes the cause which obstructs the flow of tears into the nose *. Of the Ocular or Ophthalmic Artery. The branches of this artery supply the different parts of the eye, its appendages, and the lacrymal gland. The ocular artery takes its rise near to the anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone; it passes through the foramen opticum on the temporal side of the optic nerve; then it crosses obliquely over the nerve, passing over the abductor muscle in its pro- gress to the internal angle of the eye. The branches of this artery are, The Lacrymal, which arises between the levator and ab- ductor muscle of the eye-ball, and divides into several branches, which are spent upon the abductor muscle and the levator palpebrae superioris. A reflected branch supplies the dura mater of the cavernous sinus. A branch passes beneath the globe of the eye, and is spent on the inferior oblique muscle of the eye and lower eye-lid. Several small branches of this artery dip into the substance of the lacrymal gland ; and a branch communicates with the deep temporal branch of the internal maxillary artery at the temporal margin of the orbit. A considerable branch of the ocular artery passes in the centre of the optic nerve, called Arteria Centralis. It sends off* those branches called the Long Ciliary, which are spent upon the choroid coat and iris, as has been above explained. The central artery passes along the axis of the optic nerve, and divides into a number of branches, which are distributed on the inner surface of the retina: some of the smaller branches reach the corpus ciliare; and, in the foetus, a branch of this artery may be filed with a red coloured injection, which is distributed on the capsule of the crystalline lens. On the nasal side of the ocular artery, branches are sent off* • The Observations of Treviranus on the Comparative Anatomy and Phy- siology of the Organs of Vision, published in the Journal Complement, Oct. JB23. merit attention.