ELEMENTS OF ANATOMV. 64 When, by the contraction of the auricles, the blood which they have received by the venae cavae and pulmonary veins is expelled, the ventricles are relaxed, and ready to receive the blood ; and when the ventricles contract, and expel their contents into the pulmonary artery and aorta, the auricles are relaxed. The heart is in a constant state of contraction and relaxa- tion, and continues so for many hours in several of the am- phibia, after it has been cut out of the body; and nothing can be more wonderful than the regularity, uniformity and constancy with which the alternate contractions and relaxa- tions of the different cavities of the heart take place. From the earliest period of existence to the instant of death, they proceed in the same order, and occupy the same time, and, in short, were considered by the ancient anatomists and phy- siologists as incapable of explanation, and beyond the reach of human comprehension. The great force with which the blood is expelled by the muscular power of the heart, is no less remarkable than the constancy and regularity with which its action takes place. 7th, In consequence of the contraction of the ventricles of the heart, the blood is thrown with considerable force into the pulmonary artery and aorta, and their ramifications; while the arteries, being exposed to the impluse of the blood from tne ventricles, are provided with coats of considerable strength ; w'hich, being muscular, assist the heart in propel- ling the blood; adapt themselves to the quantity of blood ; and, in the case of bleeding, by their contraction stop the flow of blood. 8th, That there is a muscular contractile power proper to the arteries and veins, is evident from the experiments of Vershuiii, my Father, Mr Hunter, Dr Wilson Philip, and Dr Hastings, and from the arteries of an animal bled to death, being much diminished in their diameter. A. From the effects of local stimuli, which excite an in- creased action of the arteries. B. From a hoemorrhagy being stopped by the contraction of the coats of the artery.