ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 550 shew, that these experiments anti observations were, in fact, unfavourable to the common opinion, and tended to support that which you offered. You likewise observed, that the sin- gular structure of these vessels, and their disposition in dif- ferent parts of the body, were such as particularly adapted them to perform the office of absorbents. And added some experiments of your own, which pointed out their use to be of this kind, and were very unfavourable to the common opi- nion. I remember, likewise, that you had, for some time, been busily employed in anatomical experiments upon this subject, and shewed several preparations, which furnished arguments in support of your opinion. You had thrown quicksilver into the arteries, with such force as to produce extravasations, and from these the lymphatics were filled, ei- ther by the weight of the quicksilver in the arteries, or by a gentle agitation and alternate compression of the parts in which the extravasations were formed. You told me, at the same time, that an easy method of exhibiting the lymphatics, is, to fill the cells of the conglobate glands with air, which passes freely into such lymphatics as rise from them, to take course towards the lacteal sac. “ But the proofs which gave me the greatest pleasure and conviction, were those deduced from some 'phenomena occur- ring in the 'practice of medicine, in which it is often observed, that where acrid matter is applied to the pores of the skin, or has access to the cells of the cellular membrane, as in the case of an ulcer, the neighbouring conglobate glands, which are between the parts affected and the centre of the body, are dis- ordered with swelling and pain ; manifestly from the matters being absorbed singly, or mostly by the lymphatics, and its being collected and allozoed to stagnate, for some time, in the cells of these glands, into which the lymphatics empty them- selves, and by its stimulus producing the disorder which fol- lows. The instances which you gave of this kind, were, I think, nearly or altogether the same with those adduced in your late Dissertation. “ The case of a blister applied to the head, and the instance of buboes in the venereal disease, are still fresh in my me- mory.