OF TllE SU PER I Oil MESENTERIC ARTERY. 279 Branches to the omentum ; branches to the stomach, which anastomose with the superior gastric and pyloric arteries. The Right Branch of the Hepatic Artery, before dip- ping into the substance of the liver, sends off branches to the gall-bladder, called the Cystic, which pass along the left side of the gall-bladder, and which are subdivided into a number of very minute branches upon the villous coat of the gall- bladder. Deviations as to the distribution of the larger branches of the abdominal aorta are very rare. I have met with an in- stance in which the superior gastric hepatic or splenic arteries came off separately from the aorta. In this instance, these vessels were of the usual size, and their smaller branches fol- lowed their usual course. Of the Superior Mesenteric Artery. The superior mesenteric artery, which is etpial in some to the coeliac artery, takes its rise from the fore-part of the aorta, about a quarter of an inch below the coeliac: it is con- cealed by the pancreas. This artery passes over the duodenum, and is situated be- tween the layers of the mesentery; it turns from the left side of the spine towards the right, forming an arch. From the left or convex side of the arch, twenty or thirty large branches are sent; each of which divides into two branches, which com- municate with each other, and form arches; from the convex part of these, still smaller arteries are derived, which anasto- mose in a similar manner. There is a similar junction and separation of the smaller branches: at length the branches are straight, which pass to the intestines, and which, upon the villous coat, are subdi- vided into very minute branches, terminating upon the villi. There are several small branches of this artery sent to the posterior part of the pancreas, which afterwards supply the duodenum, and anastomose with the branches of the coeliac. There are two or three small branches of this artery, which are spent upon the lower and left flexure of the duodenum.