OF THE NOSE. 389 The posterior openings of the nose into the throat are cal- led Choance navium. The turbinated processes of the ethmoid bone, and the ossa turbinata inferiora, project into the cavities of the nose : they add much to the extent of the internal surface of the nostrils, and are lined by a spongy and very vascular membrane, which is constantly lubricated by mucus, exuding from a num- ber of pores on the surface of the membrane. Though the several mucous membranes be said to'be of a similar structure, yet they are not all equally prone to dis- ease. Thus polypi grow more frequently from the mucous membrane of the nose and of the uterus, than from the other membranes of a similar description. These tumours are soft in substance, semipellucid, and slightly vascular ; they often project through the nostrils, or into the pharynx. Polypi do not create pain, excepting when they attain a large size. It has been recommended to remove polypi by forceps; but, on account of the extreme tenuity of the bone, which is covered by the membrane, from which they grow, it is evi- dent that it may be materially injured by their forcible ex- traction. Besides, polypi are so soft that they are apt to break ; and if a part be left, the tumour rapidly grows again. Indeed it may be observed, that such tumours are very apt to return. Three passages into the nose have been described by Hal- ler ; an upper passage above the turbinated processes of the ■ ethmoid bone; a passage between the turbinated processes of the ethmoid bone and inferior spongy bones; and a passage below the inferior turbinated bones. This last passage being straight, a probe may readily be passed along it into the throat. The septum narium is composed of the descending plate of the ethmoid bone, of the vomer, and cartilage. In the fore-part of the nostrils, there are a number of hair3. The nose is supplied with nerves by the first or olfactory pair of nerves, and by the fifth pair. T he olfactory nerves take their rise by three roots from the