ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 418 by pressing out the diseased lens; or it may be depressed by pushing the diseased crystalline lens out of the axis of vision* or by displacing, by means of a needle, and bringing it through the pupil into the aqueous humour, in which it is dis- solved. There are no vessels or nerves either upon the capsule or body of the lens in the adult, of such a size as to admit the red globules of the blood ; but, in the foetus, there are a num- ber of small branches of the central artery of the retina, which are distributed upon the back part of the capsule of the lens. Of the Vitreous Humour. This transparent humour, which, in colour and consistence* bears a strong resemblance to the glaire of an egg, is contained in a very thin capsule, named Tunica hyaloidea. Besides the general capsule, there are septula passing across the vitreous humour, which communicate with each other; so that an hour at least elapses before the whole of the vitre- ous humour is discharged, though a considerable aperture be made in the capsule. According to Mr Chenevix, this humour consists of wa- ter, albumen, jelly, and muriate of soda, and its specific gra- vity is 1.0053. This humour occupies the greater share of the ball of the eye, and keeps the retina at a proper distance from the bot- tom of the eye : it gives ready passage to the rays of light as they are converging into foci upon the retina; and it may also tend to preserve the retina of a spherical form. The capsule of the vitreous humour, according to my Father, divides at the forepart into two layers. “ Within the roots of the ciliary processes, it adheres closely to the retina; and, a little farther forwards, it seems to divide into two distinct layers. The external continues to be glued to the retina, and accompa- nies it to its termination, which we shall find to be in the fore- part of the capsule of the crystalline lens, about one-twentieth of an inch from its outer edge : The internal layer adheres firmly to the vitreous humour, till this is connected with the