ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 248 to supply the membrane that lines the antrum maxillare. A branch of the internal maxillary also passes through the pos- terior palatine hole, to supply the back part of the soft palate, and one branch of it passes to the palate, and another part through the foramen incisivum into the nose. The last branch of the internal maxillary artery has been called the Spheno-Palatine: it passes through the hole of that name, and is spent upon the mucous membrane that lines the upper and back part of the nose. A few small branches pass into the posterior cells of the ethmoid bone.—It is proposed to describe the Internal Carotid Artery, and its branches, in a subsequent part of this book, together with the organs on which they are distributed. Of the Arteria Innominata. This great artery is common to the right carotid and right subclavian arteries, and is about an inch in length in most in- dividuals. But it is not invariably of the same size or length : in general, it ascends no higher than the top of the breast- bone, and then divides into two great trunks; but Mr A. Burns shewed me instances in which this artery ascended as high as the lower part of the thyroid gland, where it might be wounded in opening the windpipe. There is no dread of a want of supply of blood in the right arm, though a ligature be thrown around this artery, and hence of late there have been two instances published, in which a ligature has been put around this artery in a living person. The one operation was performed by Dr Graeffe * of Berlin; the other by Dr Mott, Professor of Surgery in the University of New-York. In this last case, there was a prominent pulsating tumour below the collar bone, accompanied by cough and severe pain in the shoulder. Dr Mott began his incision over the tumour, divided the skin, sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, which exposed the sheath containing • Vide London Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. xlix. p. 47A.