ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 170 muuicate with each other : thus the animal, when in search of its food amongst the clay, at the bottom of rivers or ponds, is enabled to exercise, probably, at the same instant, the senses of touch and taste. The proboscis of the elephant, and the snout of the hog, are exquisite organs of touch. By means of the whiskers in the tiger, the lion and the cat, the seat of the organ of touch is extended, and, at the same time, that sense is rendered very acute, there being, at the root of each bristly hair, a plexus of nerves, which must be affected by every body with which the whisker comes into contact. There is not a more striking circumstance than the means by which the Author of Nature compensates the loss of one sense, by an uncommon degree of perfection of another. Nothing is more surprising than the acuteness of touch [in the blind; thus they have been said to be even capable of distinguishing colours. I have often viewed, with astonishment, the manner in which two persons, born deaf and dumb, lived together, and contrived to communicate their ideas, by touching different parts of the face, arms and hands. My reader would do well to turn up to the case of Mit- cilell *, which has been so faithfully and ably peurtrayed by Professor Dugald Stewart and Mr Wardrot, and which exhibits so very striking a picture of the above remark. This youth was born blind and deaf, and therefore his connection with the external world was derived from the senses of smell, taste and touch, which he possessed in an extraordinary de- gree of perfection. By the sense of smell he distinguished, in a moment, strangers. It may not be improper to add, that, according to Profes- sor Knock, there are many insects that have no tongue; and he supposes, that in them the sense of taste is resident in the posterior pair of palpi) or feelers. See History of James Mitchell, a boy born blind and deaf, with an ac- count of the operation performed for the recovery of his sight. By James War. oner, Esq. London 1^13.