261 OF THF HUMERAL ARTERY. The smaller branches of this artery pass upwards, and a- nastomose with the branches of the humeral and scapulary ar- teries ; and one of these passes into the substance of the os humeri, near to the middle of that bone; and hence has been called the Nutrient artery of the bone. The several smaller branches of the humeral artery, which are not constant as to the place of their organ, size, or course, are distributed upon the biceps brachialis internus, and teres major muscles; and a branch generally communicates with a reflected branch of the radial artery. The next considerable branch has been called the profun- da mixtor: it is spent chiefly on that part of the triceps muscle which is in the vicinity of the elbow-joint. Near to the elbow-joint, an anastomosing branch is given off, which divides into small arteries, which are spent upon the parts that cover the internal condyle of the humerus, and the olecranon ulnae. The humeral artery passes for some way along the ulnar side of the biceps flexor cubiti; and at or very near to the elbow-joint, it lies on the brachaeus internus muscle, and fol- lows the course of the tendon of the biceps; which being much narrower than the belly of that muscle, it of course gets near to the middle of the joint: it then passes beneath the tendinous aponeurosis of the biceps flexor cubiti. The humeral artery may be readily compressed against the os humeri in the above course; and, in cases of aneurism, compression has been employed by some surgeons, in prefe- rence to the ligature ; but the pain arising from long-continued pressure, has been found to be intolerable to the patient. If pressure be employed, it ought to be limited to the artery, by the apparatus adapted for that purpose. The humeral artery then passes towards the middle of the elbow-joint, and is seated deeper, in a space which is exter- nally bounded by the supinator radii longus muscle, and in- ternally by the pronator teres, and is placed behind the bra- chialis internus muscle; having in front the tendinous fascia of the biceps. About an inch below the joint, the artery is sub- divided into two large arteries called the Radial and Ulnar. But, in many instances, the humeral artery opposite to the ball