155 OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. that organ, concerning the course and existence of which, very different accounts have been published by different ana- tomists. With the aid of my assistant, I have examined the course of these fibres, in several instances; and, to render my de- scription more intelligible, have subjoined engravings * from drawings which were taken, with very great care, from na- ture, by a very skilful artist, Mr Macinxes. Of the Muscular Fibres of the Male Bladder. The muscular fibres of the bladder arise from the prostate gland, and from two small muscles, which proceed from the ligaments of the prostate to the fore-part of the neck of the bladder. These fibres are composed of an inner and an outer stratum, which pass imperceptibly into each other. The fibres of the fore-part of the bladder are smaller than those of the sides. The fibres of the sides are flat, particu- larly those which follow a transverse direction and form the inner stratum. Most of the fibres of the outer stratum are disposed longitudinally; others, however, run in a serpentine course, describing portions of larger and smaller circles. The fibres of the upper part of the bladder are paler than those of the lower portion and neck ; the superior fibres, re- sembling, in colour, those of the stomach ; the inferior, those of the oesophagus. The muscular fibres of the anterior side of the bladder arise from the prostate gland, and from two small muscles of a triangular shape, extending from the ligaments connecting the prostate gland to the under and inner part of the sym- physis pubis. These triangular muscles are thin, of a deep red colour, and, on the inside, separated about an inch from each other. They are covered by the ligaments of the pro- state, from the outer and under parts of which ligaments they take their origin. Like these ligaments, they are insulated, having on their outside the little depressions of the ilio-vesi- cal fascia; and, on their inside, the membrane of the infundi- Tab. VJII, and IX.