528 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY.- gangliorum cervicalium plane diaphani inihi apparuerint in fcetibus, atcpie hominibus in juvenili aetate mortuis. Scd longe abest, ut succus iste certum ac constans sit pheno- menon, et ad normalem gangliorum statum jure ineritoque sit referendus. Parissime occurrit gangliis thoracicis atque plexibus cardiaco et pulmonalibus; frequentius autem (usque ad certain atque deflnitam aetatem), in collo, in ramis quibus- dam anastomatieis nervorum spinalium, ac in nervis plexum caroticum constituentibus e quibus nervi sic dicti molles diu- tissime ilium succum retinere videntur.” According to Lob- stein, the ganglia differ from each other in colour, size, and hardness. The ganglia cervicale suprernum is longer, softer, and redder, than the semilunar ganglia. The ganglia are supplied by small arteries from the neigh- bouring arteries, and these have corresponding veins. Lymphatic vessels, in many parts of the body, are distri- buted around the ganglia, but I have never seen these within the substance of the ganglia. From the uppermost ganglia, small nerves are sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth thoracic ganglia, con- cur in forming a considerable trunk, called the Greater Splanch- nic Nerve, as it is spent upon the bowels of the abdomen ; and from the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal ganglia, the Lesser splanchnic nerve is sent off, which unites with the greater splanchnic, and the rest of it goes into the renal plexus. At the inferior part of the thorax, the sympathetic nerve passes into the abdomen beneath the crus of the diaphragm. Dr Wilson Philip, after having described the sympathe- tic nerve, has observed :—“ Thus the sympathetic nerve, con- veying the influence of the spinal-marrow, and the par va- gum, that of the brain, unite in forming the ganglions, which, with their plexuses, constitute a secondary centre of nervous influence, a channel through which the influence of every part of the brain and spinal marrow flows, to be bestowed on the thorax and abdominal viscera, on tbe vessels, and all secret- ing surfaces, the most important of which parts, we have, by 2