ELEMENTS OL>' ANATOMY. 37t> excepting after putrefaction ; for there is no great degree of absorption from the larger intestines. It has been found in cases of stricture of the gullet, that life cannot be supported by nutritious clysters above ten or twelve weeks. The lymphatic vessels of the smaller intestines are large and numerous; and being generally filled by a fluid like to milk, have been called Lacteal Vessels. They are best seen in cases of sudden death, or by opening an animal a couple of hours after having given it milk. There are two sets of lymphatic vessels proper to the smal- ler intestines; one of these is placed immediately under the peritonaeum ; the other takes its rise from the villous coat of the intestines, and are those vessels to which the name Lac- teal may, with the strictest propriety, be applied. These lacteal vessels, which take their origin from the vil- lous coat of the intestines, are only seen by the sun’s direct light, and by the aid of a magnifying glass ; and when the ar- teries and veins of the intestines have been filled by injections of different colours. The lacteal vessels take their origin by short radiated branches. They are collected into fasciculi, which have been •f ' called by Leiberkuhn Jmpullulce, as he supposed them to be little bottles filled by chyle. The lacteal vessels pass obliquely through the musculav coat of the intestine, and between the laminae of the mesentery, and follow the course of the bloodvessels, and in their course unite into larger branches. The superficial and deeper seated lymphatic vessels of the intestines freely communicate with each other, before passing between the laminae of the peritoneum. The lacteal vessels of the jejunum are larger than those of the ilium. The lacteal vessels in their progress, pass through the lac- teal or mesenteric glands, which are situated between the layers of the mesentery. These glands are of various sizes, and they are not equal in point of number in all individuals.