OF THE TESTES. 179 The veins which correspond with the spermatic artery are larger than it; they unite and form a plexus of a pyramidal shape, which plexus, in its progress upwards, passes along the surface of the psoas muscle : from the plexus there is a single trunk which, on the right side, terminates in the vena cava, and, on the left, in the renal vein. The lymphatic vessels of the testicles are large and nume- rous. The nerves of the testicles are derived from the renal plexus and from the lumbar plexus of nerves. In the back-part of the spermatic chord we also meet with a tube, which, when pressed between the fingers, feels like a portion of whip-cord; this is the excretory duct of the testi- cle, called the Vas Deferens, which is detached from the sper- matic chord, opposite to the upper abdominal aperture in its progress to the vesicula seminalis. The muscle called Cremaster also constitutes a consider- able share of the spermatic chord. It takes its rise from the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen, near to the junction of the os ilium and os pubis; it descends along the spermatic chord, and divides into a number of thin muscular fibres, which are fixed into the vaginal coat of the testicle. The bowels, in a case of hernia at the groin, generally slip downwards along the spermatic chord, and in front of it; but sometimes they somehow or other insinuate themselves be- tween the constituent parts of the chord, so that the vas de- ferens lies in front of the hernial tumour, where it may be materially injured in opening the hernial sac * Of the Testes of the Adult. The Testes are generally situated in the scrotum, but sometimes they remain within the abdomen throughout life. The testes, which are of an oval form, and somewhat flat- tened laterally, are placed obliquely, with one end upwards and forwards, and the other downwards and backwards. rJ he left testicle is somewhat lower than the right. Vide my Morbid Anatomy of tho Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines. M 2