ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 376 it, somewhat like the branches of a tree; and in the middle ot the trunk of the white matter, there is a small body, of a light brown colour, bordered by a serrated edge of a darker colour, to which the term Corpus dentatum has been given. This substance is not exactly uniform in its colour, and ap- pears of different breadths, according to the section that is made. If the section be made obliquely outwards from the middle line, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, it looks broader than if the cut be made in a direction nearly parallel to the space between the hemispheres of the cerebel- lum. The cerebellum is covered by the same membranes as the brain. The cerebellum is joined to the cerebrum by two medulla- ry cords, which are inserted into the substance of the cerebel- lum, and their fibres are intermixed with those of the medul- la oblongata. There is a ventricle called the Fourth, placed between the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and upper part of the medulla ob- longata, and which extends from the testes to the posterior part of the cerebellum. In the under part of the fourth ventricle, there is an angu- lar impression, which has been supposed to bear a resem- blance to a writing-pen, and is hence named Calamus scrip- torius. This ventricle is shut by its choroid plexus. The results of the experiments of Flourens on the cere- bellum are very singular. When a slice-of it w as removed, great weakness followed ; and this was the greater, the greater the quantity removed, which probably depends upon the sympathy between the se- veral parts of the nervous system. When the half of the ce- rebellum had been removed, the animal (a pigeon) staggered much, though it heard, and saw, and did not seem to suffer pain ; and when still more of the cerebellum was removed, the animal could not support itself even with the aid of its wings and tail; hence Flouiif.ns infers, that the cerebellum is the regulator of the locomotive faculty. Rolando, on the other hand, compares the cerebellum to a