ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 258 Branches of the axillary artery are distributed upon the ex- ternal parts of the thorax, and hence have been called THO- RACIC. There is considerable variety as to the size, number, and mode of distribution of the thoracic arteries : sometimes there are only two or three trunks; but, on other occasions, five or six ; and sometimes all arise by a common trunk. By Thoracic arteries, authors understand all those branches which arise from the axillary artery, excepting the scapulary and the two circumflex arteries. The thoracic may be divided into two classes. The supe- rior are spent upon the serratus, intercostal, pectoral muscles, and mammae, and anastomose with the branches of the inter- nal mammary and superior, or longest intercostal arteries. The iiiferior thoracic arteries supply the mammae, axillary glands, and lesser pectoral, and serratus anticus muscles. A branch of this artery passes along the collar-bone, and dips into the substance of the subclavian muscle. A branch is reflected backwards under the deltoid muscle, and anastomoses with the superior scapulary artery. A few of the smaller branches of this artery supply the te- res major, latissimus dorsi, longest head of the triceps mus- cle, and subscapulary muscles. The axillary artery descends along the origin of the subsca- pulary muscle, to which it gives branches, and sends off* the artery called infra scapularis, which is immediately sub- divided into two branches, the scapularis interna, and ARTEIIIA DORSALIS SCAPULAE INFERIOR. The scapularis interna gives branches to the under part of the scapula, and to the teres major, subscapularis and la- tissimus dorsi muscles, and anastomoses freely with the arteria ; dorsalis scapulae superior, as has been represented by Hal- ler. The arteria dorsalis scapula inferior, gives seve- ral small branches to the subscapulary muscle, and to the te- res major, the latissimus dorsi muscles, and to the axillary glands. The next branch, called circumflex a posterior, arises U