ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 296 muscle and the second head of the adductor muscle ; and the sartorius muscle passes across it. This artery is by no means uniformly of the same size. The arteria profunda femoris is covered at its origin, by the superficial femoral artery, and by the glands of the groin : it is placed in the hollow between the pectineus and adductor muscles of the thigh. It then inclines towards the inner side of the thigh, after giving off the circumflex arteries, and is lodged in the cavity between the second head of the adductor muscle, and the vastus interims muscle, in which place it de- scends as far as the middle of the thigh. The following branches are derived from the arteria profunda femoris:—a small branch which is spent chiefly on the rectus femoris, iliacus interims, and on the skin of the upper and inner parts of the thigh. The external circumflex which passes under thesartorius and rectus muscles, and towards the root of the great trochan- ter, is distributed on the rectus cruris; and, perforating the fascia of the thigh, is spent on the skin over the hip. A large branch passes down the inside of the vastus intemus, and communicates with the superior articular artery of the knee. The circumflex artery sometimes takes its rise from •/ the superficial femoral artery. The internal circumflex takes its rise nearer to the exter- nal circumflex, from the inner and back part of the trunk of the profunda; sinks deep between the pectineus iliacus inter- nus, and psoas muscles; it then passes into the space between the greater and lesser trochanter. The artery gives branches to the neck of the thigh-bone, acetabulum, and obturator ex- ternus muscles. An external pudic artery is sometimes derived from the in- ternal circumflex, but more commonly from the superficial fe- moral artery. This artery crosses the upper portions of the pectineus and gracilis muscle, and is subdivided into a number of small branches, which are distributed upon the inguinal glands, the scrotum, and pubis. A branch of this artery anastomoses with a branch of the