OF TIIF. FOETUS. 611 they vary a little, from the differences in the stature of differ- ent women, the size of the foetus, and the quantity of liquor ainnii. Of the state of the Fcetus in the earlier months of Pregnancy. Sir Et Home discovered an embryo on the seventh or eighth day of pregnancy, before it was attached to the inner membrane of the womb. The following is on extract from the description of it given by Mr Bauer. “ On closely examining the subject under the microscope, I found it consisted of membrane, which, considering the ex- treme minuteness of the object, is of considerable thickness and consistence, very little transparent, quite smooth, and milk-white, forming a kind of bag of an irregular shape- not quite parts of an inch in length, and in its middle about parts of an inch broad. On one side it has an elevated ridge, or loose fold along the whole length, and on the oppo- site side it is open nearly to the same extent, but has no ap- pearance of being torn; the edges of the membrane being smoothly rolled inwards, which gives it much the shape of a little shell of the genus voluta. When laid on glass, the membrane admitted of being laid open on both sides by the point of a fine camel-hair pencil : when thus opened, I found it contained another smaller bag, somewhat less than parts of an inch long, and not quite parts of an inch broad, ending at the upper extremity nearly in a point, but the lower extremity was very obtuse, and in the middle it was slightly contracted.11 By the seventh week, the foetus has been stated to be equal to a bee in size; and, about the eighth week, to be as long as a kidney-bean, and in form to resemble two ovals of unequal size, joined by a neck. Baron Haller bestowed great pains in order to discover the growth of the foetus in utero at different periods. He has stated, that it increases during the first month to a bulk 300,000 times greater than its original size ; during the second month, the increase is forty-eight times the size it had at the end of the first; from which time, to the ninth month,