ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 202 On account of the vicinity and connection of the bladder to the rectum, stones may be extracted from the bladder, by cutting into it from the rectum. Celsus, the first author who wrote on lithotomy, adopted this method of operating. It is not applicable to the adult, for the operator cannot reach the stone, so as to grasp it: even in a tall young person it could not be done; and even when the stone could be grasped, it might be impossible to press it downwards, to a proper part of the perinseum, for making the incision. Be- sides, the places cut are not the same in any two operations, and the incisions are made without any proper rule; and by the incisions, the vasa deferentia, or vesiculae seminales, will pi-obably be injured, to a greater or less degree. Of late, a different method of cutting into the bladder from the rectum has been proposed, by a French surgeon, Mr San- son. He divides the sphyncter ani muscle from below up- wards, and opens the membranous part of the urethra, and the prostate gland, from above downwards. This method of operating has been, of late, repeatedly practised by the Italian surgeons, and especially by Dr Vac- ua Belinghieri, who is a very warm advocate for it; and has published a memoir, in order to point out its peculiar ad- vantages. According to that author, there are several ad- vantages peculiar to this method of opening the bladder: « there is no point of the perinaeum nearer to the bladder than that which is immediately anterior to the sphyncter ani. “ By cutting the sphyncter, the parietes of the rectum, the membranous part of the urethra, and the prostate, we shall have procured an opening sufficiently large for the entrance of our fingers, our forceps, and for the egress of the stone ; because we take advantage of the natural aperture of the anus, and cavity of the rectum.'” Upon the preceding paragraph, it may be observed, that a passage, sufficiently large for the extraction of a stone of con- siderable size, may be obtained by the lateral operation. The late Mr A. Wood extracted a stone, weighing 14 ounces, in presence of my Father, by the lateral operation; and Ins