elements of anatomy. 48 terics, excepting within the cavities of the body. There are many of the larger trunks of the veins which lie under the skin; whereas the larger branches of the arteries are deep seated in several parts of the body, as in the organs of gene- ration, &c., and under several parts of the skin, in which there are venous plexuses without corresponding arteries, as the vena azygos of the pia mater. The larger branches of the veins, like those of the arteries, are lodged in the vicinity of the processes of the bones, be- tween muscles, or the lobes of glands, from which they re- ceive protection. The veins are less tortuous than the arteries. The branches of the veins communicate with each other more freely and more frequently than the branches of the ar- teries ; they communicate by a straight canal, or by arches; or the communications are so numerous as to form a plexus. The communications between the branches of the smaller veins are most numerous where the course of the blood in these is more apt to be interrupted by violent motion, by the effect of gravitation during our erect posture, or by external and internal pressure : hence, the spermatic veins freely and repeatedly communicate with each other. The above free communication is very necessary in the ve- nous system, as the return of the blood is more apt to be ob- structed by the effect of gravitation, posture, &c., and by tu- mours, than in the arteries. Valves are found in the larger veins, particularly,those which are placed perpendicularly, as in the limbs; and where the pressure occasioned by the contraction of the superincumbent muscles might have rendered the blood refluent. The only internal veins which have valves are the vena azygos and spermatic veins. The valves are formed by a reflexion of the innermost coat of the vein; each valve has a fixed and loose edge, which lat- ter floats loose within the vein ; the valves are of the figure of a parabola; are concave towards the heart, and are general- ly disposed in pairs; and these valves are perfectly similar to