ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the corpora cavernosa penis are united, it is subdivided iit- to two great branches, one of which' passes along the dor- sum of the penis, through the whole length of that organ, im- mediately beneath the skin ; and, in that course, it is subdi- vided into a great many small branches, which are distributed on the corpora cavernosa penis, and on the glans penis. The deeper branch of this artery subdivides into the arte- ries proper to the corpora cavernosa penis, and corpus spon- giosum urethra; and those of opposite sides inosculate with each other through the septum penis. Compression is not to be relied upon after the penis has been amputated; the ligature is indispensable. Mr Hey has pointed out the necessity of securing the sevei’al arteries of the peni& by the ligature, and has also strongly recommended the en- circling the sound part of the penis by a broad piece of tape; it forms a useful kind of tourniquet during the operation, and prevents the loss of blood during the time the surgeon is engaged in putting his ligatures upon the divided vessels. It is not necessary to pass a tube into the urethra. I have seen cases terminate well without it. All that is necessary is occasionally to pass a bougie. Mr A. Burns shewed me two specimens, in which the pu- dic artery, instead of passing out of the pelvis between the sacro-sciatic ligaments, passed along the lateral and inferior part of the bladder, and traversed the upper part of the pros- tate gland, in its course to the ramus of the os ischium. I have not seen on any occasion, such a considerable quan- tity of blood lost during the lateral operation of lithotomy, as was at all dangerous. The bleeding proceeds from cutting into the bulb, by which the branch of the pudic artery which is proper to the bulb is divided, and the large trunk proper to the corpus cavernosum. In the female, a branch of this ar- tery is sent between the sphyncter vagina? and erector clito- ridis to the body of the clitoris. The next artery which is sent off from the anterior iliac, at an acute angle, has been called the epigastric. There is much variety as to the origin of the epigastric artery: generally it takes its rise about an inch from the cru-