336 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. rent lengths, and pressure intercepts the progress of the ner- vous influence. On account of the velocity with which impressions are con- veyed, the nervous influence has been supposed to resemble the electrical fluid. Ai.dini supposed, that an etherial fluid is generated in the | animal economy; and according to Valli, those substances \ that convey electricity, are also conductors of the nervous fluid. My Father was led, by a number of experiments, (of which I gave an account in my Outlines of Anatomy), to deny the identity between electricity and the nervous energy. “ From these experiments, it is proved, that, whilst the elec- trical fluid is passing from the toes, upwards along the mus- cles, it does not throw them into convulsions, but that it does so, as soon as it begins to pass along the trunk alone, of the nerve. At that instant, therefore, the electrical fluid is uio- ving in the direction upwards, and the nervous energy is mo- ving downwards, from the trunk of the nerve into the muscle, or in the trunk of the nerve, the electrical, and the nervous energy are moving and acting in contrary directions. Hence we are led to infer, that the nervous energy is different FROM THE ELECTRICAL, AND THAT THE NERVE IS MERELY STIMULATED BY THE ELECTRICAL FLUID.” Dr Wilson Philip is a strenuous advocate of the identity of the nervous and galvanic fluids ; and his very remarkable discovery of the galvanic influence being a substitute for the nervous influence, is strong evidence of the accuracy of his opinion. The observations and experiments detailed in his ninth chapter, afford reason to believe, that the nervous and mus- cular powers depend on chemical' changes, and that the agent which produces the phenomena is galvanism. After dividing the eighth pair of nerves, and thereby de- stroying the functions of the stomach, Dr Wilson Philip : found, that, by the agency of galvanism, the digestive powers were restored. He has also proved, that indigestion may be ic- I moved by galvanism, when inflammation is not present, and i