55 OF THE VEINS. ing to the preparations in the museum of the University, the more rare kind of aneurism. The coats of the veins are thinner, more flexible, and yield more readily than those of the arteries, from slight causes. There is considerable difference in the thickness of the coats of different veins. As far as I have observed, the muscu- lar fibres of the vena cava, and vena poftarum, are thicker than those of the other veins. Though the coats of the veins be thinner than those of the arteries, they are, accord- ing to Sir Clifton Wintiungham, proportionally stronger. The gravity of the blood has a considerable effect on the size of the veins. To counteract the effect of the gravity of the blood, the coats of the veins of the inferior extremities are thicker than those of the superior, notwithstanding which, the veins of the legs are often much swollen in persons who re- main long in an erect position. The above circumstances are worthy of particular notice, in the treatment of enlargement of the veins of the inferior extremities, and point out the advantage of the horizontal po- sition, and of the application of a laced stocking over the en- larged veins. The coats of the arteries and veins are less liable to give way, in consequence of ulceration, than the muscles. In ma- lignant ulcers, we often observe the muscular substance con- sumed, but the coats of the bloodvessels continue sound. The parietes of the arteries and veins may be divided into a greater or smaller number of layers. Some authors have divided the walls of the arteries into seven distinct layers ; but anatomists, of the present day, adopting the division of my Grandfather, describe three layers only, as being proper to the arteries and veins: and between these coats there is no fat. The arteries within the thorax and abdomen have an addi- tional coat, from the pleura and peritonaeum. There are small vessels proper to the coats of the arteries, called their Vasa Vasorum, by the medium of which they receive their nou- rishment ; hence, when that supply of blood is cut off', by the use of several ligatures, or by the use of a very broad liga-