80 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. rynx is raised, which is clone to the extent of half an inch for each octave; and when a bass-note is sounded, the larynx is depressed again in a similar gradation. When the larynx ascends, it is elongated and contracted, and when it descends it is dilated. The above observation is applicable to the case of eunuchs, whose tones of voice and larynx resemble those of the female : hence also the similarity of the voice of infants of both sexes at the period of birth, their larynxes being simi- lar in size and form : hence the cause of distinction between the sound of the voice in the different sexes after puberty,— the larynx being of unequal size in the different sexes. The human voice has been compared by some authors to a flute, by others to a chorded instrument. The human larynx is, however, superior to all instruments made by human art. It is composed of cartilages, so constructed, disposed, and articulated with each other, as to be susceptible of a great va- riety of motion ; and which are affected by those slighter tre- mors of the air that do not in the smallest degree influence either a wind or chorded instrument. Besides, the vocal chords which alter and modify the tones of the. voice are stretched in very various degrees by the muscles of the larynx, and are fixed to elastic and flexible cartilages; whereas the chords of all musical instruments are fixed to substances which possess those properties, so essential to harmony and variety of sound, in a very inferior degree. The above opinion gains weight from the remarkable change the voice undergoes in old age. In the old, the thyroid, arytenoid, and cricoid cartilages, are very frequently converted into bone, which, combined with the weakness and rigidity of the muscles, may explain the weakness and shrillness of the voice at that period of life. But the epiglottis is very seldom ossified, otherwise we should be often exposed to be suffocated by extraneous bo- dies getting into the windpipe. The sound originally formed in the larynx undergoes various modifications in its passage through the mouth and nostrils. 3 i