ELEMENTS OF AN ATOM Y. 192 On separating the vasa deferentia from each other, we, on some occasions, meet with a third lobe, which is placed poste- riorly in respect to the urethra, between the lateral lobes. This third lobe has been described by Morgagni, J. Hun- ter, and Sir E. Home. Morgagni has observed, Adv. Anat. iv. page 24, and 25., 1723, “ Quod si vera ulla propagp prostatae addenda est, ea certe est subrotunda et renitens, quasi glandula, quam cum saepe diligentissimus noster incisor in publicis dissectionibus animadvertisset inter vesicam et seminales capsulas qua sese mutuo jam contingunt prominentem, et nonnunquam ad an- gulum quem, conveniendo, efficiunt, prostantem, nos, accura- to institute examine, nihil aliud esse comperimus quam corpo- ris prostatae ipsius particulam.” An enlargement of the whole, or of a part of this gland, alters the course of the urethra ; it increases its curvature upwards ; and if the enlargement be limited to one of the larger lateral lobes, the urethra follows a winding course. If both lateral lobes be swelled, the urethra is obstructed ; but, generally, the obstruction is occasioned by the third lobe projecting backwards, and forming a sort of valve over the orifice of the urethra; for it is forced downwards by the con- traction of the bladder. Several specimens of the enlargement of this third portion of the prostate gland, have been preserved in the Museum of the University of this city for thirty years. Of the Use of the Third or Middle Lohtde of the Prostate Gland. Is/, Morgagni thought this protuberance, or Caruncle, as he calls it, may serve to defend the vesiculas seminales from the compression of the distended bladder of urine. Mor- gagni, Adv. Anat., page 24. 1723, <e Non sine aliqua utili- tate in iis qui hanc habent (neque enim omnes habent) ut puta, ad easdem capsulas a compressione distendo vesicae defenden- das, antalia ejusmodi, inter hanc et illas protuberantem.” To me it appears to be rather calculated to serve the follow-