OF IIAIR. 485 and cuticle; which they somewhat raise. Each bulb con- sists of an external part, which is vascular, and from which the hair derives its nourishment, and of an internal membra- nous part. In some animals, hair is renewed once, but in others twice a-year. Some have described the hair as consisting of an outer co- vering, and of an inner part, called the Pith or Medulla. The horny covering is composed of numerous filaments placed laterally, which are of unequal lengths; those nearest the centre beincr the long-est;: hence the hair has somewhat of the form of an elongated cone, with its base in the skin; and on this property the process of felting depends. According to some, the colour is resident in the horny co- vering; but, according to others, in the pith. The latter opi- nion is the more probable, as, in the spines of the porcupine, the pith is white, and the horny or outer covering white. It has been doubted, whether hairs be composed of a con- geries of smaller hairs united together, or of one hair which is tubular. What has been called the forking of hair fa- vours the former opinion ; whereas the structure of the whis- kers of the seal favours the latter opinion. In the former there are two canals, and in the latter one distinct canal. I have stated that the hairs are longest in animals that in- habit cold regions ; and it is undoubtedly shorter in animals, as horses, that are kept in houses,—the heat seeming to re- tard the growth of the hair; but, on the other hand, heat promotes the growth of the beard. The bulbs of the hair receive bloodvessels and nerves. The nervous filaments are very distinct in the inferior ani- mals ; and in the human body, at the roots of the eye-lashes, and at the roots of the hairs in the nostrils. The hairs are in themselves insensible; but, on account of the large nerves distributed at their roots, they extend the organ of touch; hence the great use of whiskers to cats, and other animals that seek their prey at night; the slightest im- pression is communicated by the point of the whiskers to the nerves distributed at their base.