ELEMENTS 01- ANATOMY. 262 of the os humeri, or lower down in the arm, divides into the ulnar and radial arteries, and sometimes in both arms of the same person. It generally happens that, when the radial and ulnar arte- ries are sent off at the humerus, that the two branches lie in : immediate contact with each other, as far as the elbow-joint; but, in a few instances, one of these runs immediately under the skin and above the tendinous aponeurosis of the arm. This branch may inadvertently be opened during venesec- tion. In some instances, the humeral artery divides into two branches, and these are again united into one trunk. I have two specimens, in which there is an additional artery, which follows the same course as the humeral artery, and Which is united with the radial branch of that artery, near to the elbow-joint. I have also specimens in which the interosseous artery takes its rise from the humeral. It is necessary to be aware of these varieties as to the distribution of the arteries of the arm, in i performing the operation for the cure of aneurism of the hu- meral, radial, or ulnar aneurisms. The incision should be made in a direction parallel to the biceps flexor cubiti, taking care to avoid the internal cutane- ous nerves, through the skin and tendinous aponeurosis of the i arm. The surgeon ought also to bear in mind, that the ar- tery, when laid bare, does not invariably pulsate; and hence the difficulty of distinguishing it from the accompanying vein 01 radial nerve. The two great branches of the humeral artery, the radial and ulnar, are not of equal size. The latter is the larger. The ulnar artery passes behind the pronator teres, the flexor muscles of the hand, and then between the flexor sub- limis and profundus digitorum. It sends upwards a consi- derable branch, called recurrens ulnaris, which is placed i under the flexor muscles, and the anterior and inner side of the elbow-joint, and anastomoses above the internal condyle with the smaller branches of the arteria profunda humeri. The artery then passes along the ulna, giving off several, small branches to the fore-arm. The next branch of the ulnar artery has been called the in- fi