OF THE FCETAL CIRCULATION. 115 various upon the colour of the blood of the umbilical vein, and found it to be of a brilliant red colour, like arterial blood, while that contained in the corresponding arteries, was of a dark colour. “ Hie, sanguinis in adulti arteriis more, viride florebat, ille, venosi sanguinis, nigricabat The blood which passes to the placenta, by the two umbi- lical arteries, flows back to the body of the foetus by the um- bilical vein, which is involved in a duplicature of peritonaeum, behind the recti muscles of the abdomen, to the fossa umbi- licalis of the liver, and thence to the left branch of the vena portae. A branch of the umbilical vein, called Ductus venosus, carries the blood from the left branch of the vena portarum directly into the vena cava inferior. Thus a part of the blood passes into the vena cava direct- ly from the umbilical vein, without flowing through the liver. The branches of the umbilical vein are dispersed chiefly through the left lobe of the liver, for very few of them pass into the right lobe. By the medium of the vena cava, the blood flows to the right auricle of the heart. The lungs of the feetus that has not breathed are compact and dense, and, in colour and consistence, bear a strong re- semblance to the liver, and readily sink in water : but when the child has breathed, they become much paler and some- times are variegated; the air-cells are dilated; they almost cover the heart, push downwards the diaphragm, and, owing to the quantity of blood that then flows through the pul- monary bloodvessels, their weight is increased nearly twofold, but their specific gravity is diminished, so that they swim in water. In order to ascertain whether or riot a child has breathed, Plouquet has proposed to take the relative weight of the lungs to the body ; but a table, taken from the records of the Hospital of Maternity at Paris, does not confirm his statement. It may be added, that, by grounding a calculation upon the above mentioned table, it appears, that, during the se- ll o Jeffrey, tie Placenta.