597 or THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. rious poisons, in their progress within the heart, pass through certain glands, which they divide into branches. Hence these glands are liable to many diseases. There is a possibility that the constitution may be deeply contaminated by the venereal poison, though there be no bu- bo, because all the lymphatic vessels do not enter the gland. Fallopius observes, that, in his time, sold oriri bubo absque gonorrhoea et absque carie. From the condition of the lymphatic glands, we may conjec- ture whether a tumour remains in an inactive state, or whe- ther acrid matter be generated within it. Thus, in the case of scirrhous mamma, if the lymphatic glands of the axilla be swollen, it is probable that cancerous matter has begun to form in the diseased breast. It often happens, that, though cancer has begun in the mamma, which has given rise to a swelling of the glands in the axilla, yet, owing to the quantity of fat, the swelling is not to be discovered by the feel through the sound teguments. It is possible, from the situation of a venereal bubo, to judge whether the disease is in its progress inwards or outwards. For instance, a bubo, the consequence of chancre, is placed near to the tendon of the external oblique, the matter being only in its passage towards the blood; but if a gland at the under part of the inguinal cluster, be swollen, this is a proof of the system being deeply contaminated, for it must proceed from a venereal ulcer in the leg. By the lymphatic vessels, medicines are introduced into the blood, and thus disease is sometimes prevented or cured. In the treatment of many diseases, it is of much moment that the medicine should reach the seat of the disease; that it should follow the same route as the poison ; hence the greater benefit from mercurial inunction upon the thigh, in case of bubo, than of the mercurial pill. Diseases are also occasioned by a want of the due action of the lymphatic vessels. Dropsy often proceeds from debility, and want of the healthy action of the lymphatic vessels; or the body is imperfectly nourished, from an obstruction of the