399 OF THE CHOEOID COAT. its fore-part, near to the ribs, where these coats are connected by the ciliary ligament. The internal surface of this coat, af- ter its vessels have been well filled, has a villous surface, like velvet Ruysch has described this coat as double; but I doubt much whether it be so in the human body, unless we admit that the fine cellular substance, in which the dark-co- loured paint is lodged, is a distinct coat. In the whale it is obviously so, and also in fishes. The inner layer of it has been called the Tunica Ruysciana; and it merits mention, that this layer may be separated from the outer part of the choroid coat in quadrupeds; and it is of finer and closer tex- ture. The brown colour of this coat is derived from the paint which covers its surface shining through it; and this paint, which is thicker in the foetus than in the adult, and darker coloured in the Negro than in the European, is of a veiy pe- culiar nature. In many of the inferior animals, a considerable portion of the choroid coat in the bottom of the eye has a metallic lustre, and has been called Tapetum. The tint varies in dif- ferent animals. In the ox it is of a sea-green or leaden hue; in the horse of an azure blue ; in the cat tribe yellow ; in the lion like gold; and in the shark, like the amalgam on the back of mirrors. Dr Drummond discovered a very singular property in this tapetum. When the choroid, and its tapetum, are dried up- on a plate of glass, they become black; and, when again moistened by water, the brilliant colour returns. Dr Drum- mond observes, “ I washed off the back silvery part of the choroid coat of the haddock, with a hair-pencil, and about half a tea-spoonful of water. The latter became of a milky colour, and on examining a drop of it,-with an Ellis’s aquatic mi- croscope, I found the milkiness to be owing to innumerable slender, flat, silvery spicula, which had composed the sub- stance of the choroid. They seemed to be in constant mo- tion, apparently rolling upon their axis, but having no degree of progressive movement. The light reflected from their sur- face was very brilliant, like that from polished silver, and of-