ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 342 not yet afforded any precise and clear information respecting the differences between man and animals, nor on the grounds of the infinitely various faculties that distinguish different ani- mals. It can hardly be expected that these matters will re- ceive any clear elucidation while we continue so ignorant, as at present, of the functions executed by the different parts of the encephalon. “ The basis of the position so much insisted on by Soem- mering is an assumption, that a certain bulk of nerve re- quires always the same proportion of brain for the execution of its office,—a datum by no means self-evident. The com- parison of the nerves to the brain in general is not satis- factory ; we should wish to know the relative proportions of the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata. “ The assertion, that it (the human brain) has the largest cerebrum in proportion to the cerebellum, does not appear to be quite correct. It has, however, the largest cerebrum in proportion to the medulla oblongata and spinalis, with the single, and indeed singular, exception of the dolphin Besides weight and size, according to Soemmering, there are fifteen anatomical differences between the human brain and that of the common tailed apes. As life advances, the brain acquires a much greater degree of firmness, and it may be observed, that good living produces a most manifest effect on the brain : thus the brain is much firmer in those that are well fed, than in those who live on poor diet; and, according to Morgagni, and Bonnet, the character indicates the degree of firmness of the brain; for the two former distinguished anatomists have stated, that the brains of the proud and irascible are hard, dry, and coria- ceous, whereas those of the meek are soft. The above remark ought to be received with caution, and is liable to many exceptions. I have examined, with considerable attention, the state of the brain in several criminals, and, in four or five instances, about two hours after death, and have invariably found the * Lectures on Comparative Anatomy. 3