394 Elements of anatomy. 9. he sclerotic coat of fishes is of a firmer texture than that of man or quadrupeds. In the human body, the sclerotic coat is thicker at its pos- terior than at its anterior part; and in a young child, this coat is so thin at its fore-part as to be nearly transparent, and in some birds it is soft and pliable. In the seal it is thicker before and behind than in the mid- dle. Thus the axis of the eye is shortened when the animal sees in air, by bringing the lens nearer to the back of the globe, in order to obviate the strong refraction which the rays of light experience in passing from the thin medium of the air into the eyes. The sclerotic coat has few vessels proper to it, which are derived from the ciliary arteries; and it possesses but little sensibility. There are a number of small arteries, named Ciliary, which perforate the posterior part of this coat. There is also a small rounded opening in this coat, which, on its inner side, appears like a circular spot, through which the medullary part of the optic nerve passes. That portion of the sclerotic coat which lies under the tu- nica conjunctiva, is of a more brilliant white colour than any other part of the sclerotic coat. This has been imputed to the addition of a covering formed by the union of the tendons of the recti muscles, which move the eye-ball, which have been supposed to be extended over the cornea; but, upon this opi- nion, it may be observed, that the intermediate spaces be- tween the tendons, are as white and brilliant as the portions of the sclerotic, under the tendons of the muscles; and, be- sides, my Father has justly remarked, that he found all the tendinous fibres of the recti firmly attached to the sclerotic, at the distance of a quarter of an inch from the edge of the cornea, and no appearance, that any part of them, or that any membrane produced by them, is continued over the cornea. By experiment on the human eye, he found, that the weight of 54 ounces tore one of the recti muscles, but that it required the weight of 100 ounces to tear its tendon from the sclerotic coat; and when the tendon quitted the sclerotic, there was no