122 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. “ Upon injecting, with a penetrating liquor, the vena? portae, I observed that some part of the injection passed into the he- patic ducts, though I saw no reason to suspect that the vessels were lacerated; and 1 have often filled the uriniferous tubes from the renal arteries. On the other hand, if I am not much mistaken, I have injected, without laceration, some branches of the vena portarum from the hepatic duct. “ I am, however, certain, that it is more difficult to fill the vena portarum from the duct, than the duct from the vena portarum. Farther, in cases of jaundice, occasioned by bi- liary calculi, by scirrhus of the head of the pancreas, by thickening and coai’ction of the common duct, or by putting a ligature around the common duct of living animals, although, in these cases, the person or animal had been jaundiced for many days, weeks, or months, and the hepatic duct, and all its principal branches, were enormously dilated, I did not find that I could press back into the bloodvessels the bile they contained, nor inject a coloured liquor from them into the bloodvessel, more easily than in animals in which there had been no disease of the liver: and, notwithstanding the en- largement of the trunk and branches of the hepatic duct, no follicles giving origin to these were filled by the injection. Hence liquors pass readily from the arteries into cavities, as into the intestines, ventricles of the brain, pericardium, and pleura, but cannot be pressed back into the arteries; and, in all these parts, the openings are probably oblique. “ Upon the whole, it appears to me, that the secerning arte- ries terminate in four different ways: — There are exhaling branches of the arteries. 2d, Many secerning arteries may terminate in one follicle. 3d, The beginnings of ducts may probably form conti- nuous tubes with the smaller ramifications of the arteries, as in the kidneys. 4tli, The secerning branches of the arteries probably ter- minate obliquely in the sides of the ducts, or perforate their coats obliquely, in the same manner as the ductus communis choledoch us passes through the coats of the duodenum. As injections pass more readily from the vena portarum into the 3