ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 508 rectly on the heart as well as on the muscles of voluntary mo- tion. “ 6. That the laws which regulate the effects of stimuli ap- plied to the brain and spinal marrow on the heart and muscles of voluntary motion are different. <{ 7. That mechanical stimuli applied to the brain and spi- nal marrow, are better fitted to excite the muscles of volunta- ry motion, and chemical stimuli the heart. “ 8. That neither mechanical nor chemical stimuli, applied to the brain and spinal marrow, excite the muscles of volunta- ry motion, unless they are applied near to the origin of their nerves ; and, consequently, that these muscles are excited by stimuli applied to very minute parts of the above organs. “ 9- That both mechanical and chemical stimuli, applied to any considerable part of the brain or spinal marrow, increase the action of the heart, which cannot be increased by any sti- mulus applied to a minute part of these organs. •c 10. That the heart obeys a much less powerful stimulus applied to the brain and spinal marrow, than the muscles of voluntary motion do. “11. That stimuli applied to the brain and spinal marrow, excite irregular action in the muscles of voluntary motion. “ 12. That no stimulus applied to the brain or spinal mar- row, excites irregular action in the heart or vessels of circula- tion, nor is their action rendered irregular by sedatives, un- less a blow, which crushes a considerable part of the brain or spinal marrow, be regarded as a sedative. “ 13. That the excitement of the muscles of voluntary mo- tion, takes place chiefly at the moment at which the stimulus is applied to the brain and spinal marrow, while that of the heart may generally be perceived as long as the stimulus is applied. “ 14. That after all stimuli applied to the brain and spinal marrow, fail to excite the muscles of voluntary motion, both mechanical and chemical stimuli so applied still excite the heart. “ 15. That all the foregoing differences in the effects of sti- muli applied to the brain and spinal marrow on the heart and