172 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and frequently so great as to prove a complete impediment to the discharge of urine, and yet may often be removed by the exhibition of narcotic remedies. 7th, The very striking analogy in the symptoms of the spas- modic stricture of the urethra, and in those of the spasmodic stricture of the gullet, in which canal the muscular structure is quite obvious. 8th, The contraction of the accelerator urina?, and other muscles within which the urethra is included, is not sufficient to account for the phenomena of the spasmodic stricture: thus a bougie may often be passed down to a stricture without opposition ; but upon being applied to the stricture, the ure- thra contracts upon the instrument, and firmly grasps it. If the instrument had been grasped by the muscles which are external to the membrane of the urethra, it would glide rea- dily along the part uncovered by muscles, but would be firm- ly grasped by that part included within the muscles, which does not happen, the instrument being generally and firmly grasped by the membrane of the urethra. The internal surface of the urethra has been described as being smooth ; and it appears so to the naked eye; but when examined by a* magnifying glass, numberless small papilla? come into view, which are the orifices of glands. The internal surface of the urethra is lubricated, and de- fended from the acrimony of the urine, by mucus, which is derived from a number of orifices, capable of admitting a hog’s bristle, which are seen only in that part of the urethra which is before the membranous part. The number of these orifices is very considerable, and varies much in different individuals ; 50 or 60 of these may generally be enumerated. The mouths of these orifices are directed forwards, and on tracing them, they are found to lead to canals about a quarter of an inch long, which are lined by the continuation of the mucous membrane lining the urethra. Mr Bauer has beautifully represented *, the glands from Vide Philos. Trans, of London for 1820.