• TABLETS OF ANATOMY. BY THOMAS COOKE, F.R.C.S., Eng. B.A., B.Sc., M.D., Paris. SENIOE ASSISTANT SURGEON TO THE WESTMINSTER HOSPITAX, AND LECTURER AT THE SCHOOL OF ANATOMY, PHTSIOLOGY, AND SURGERY. Being a Synopsis of Demonstrations given in the Westminster Hospital Medical School in the Years 1871, -72, -73, -74, -75. EIGHTH THOUSAND, BEING A SELECTION OF THE TABLETS BELIEVED TO BE MOST USEFUL TO STUDENTS GENEEALLY. " The schemes of any of the arts or sciences may be analysed in a sort of skeleton, and represented upon tables, with the various dependencies and connections of the several parts and subjects that belong to them; and the frequent review of these abstracts and epitomes would tend much to imprint them on the brain, when they have been once well learned; this would keep those learned traces always open, and assist the weakness of a labouring memory." ISAAC WATTS, D.D., ON ''The Improvement of the Mind." LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. 1889. ALL BIGHTS RESERVED. 1 Price 7/6.WELLCOMF SNSTITUTE Coll /lOmec Call CP mPREFACE TO THE EIGHTH THOUSAND. This Edition has been thoroughly revised and corrected. Eighteen years' experience in the use of the Tablets of Anatomy has shown that, from the point of view of their utility to Students, the Tablets may be divided into two classes:— I. —Those—the majority,—which may be considered useful to most Students. II. —Those which are of use mainly to such as are preparing for the higher examinations. The Tablets which may be fairly considered to come within Class I., have alone been introduced into this Edition. The bulk and price of the work have therefore been considerably reduced. It has also been thought desirable to group the Tablets according to the several regions of the body, so that the book may become a companion to the several Dissectors' Manuals. Special facilities have further been provided for the easy division of the book into parts or segments of a convenient size for carrying in the coat pocket. To this eflfeot, the several groups of subjects. Posterior Triangle of the Neck, Anterior Triangle of the Neck, Orbit, etc., have each been arranged in what bookbinders call a " section"; and if the book be opened somewhat forcibly between the front or title page of one section, and the last page of the preceding section, it will easily be divided at this point by simply cutting the bookbinder's threads or tapes. And each section will be found to contain a complete subject, to form a synopsis, so • to speak, of one of the ordinary classes given by the Author in his private Anatomical School, and to constitute a pamphlet which, folded in two, will bear carrying about without falling to pieces. The advantages of a small book are thus added to some extent to those of a book of ordinary size. This arrangement has involved, however, some repetitions and a few omissions, the latter generally unimportant, it is believed, and mostly remedied in the Appendix. The minute Anatomy, which is now generally taken under the head of Physiology, and such subjects as have mainly reference to minute anatomy, such as the ear, the eye, etc., have been removed from this edition. 40, Bkunswick Square, January^ 1889.PEEFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. In a Learner's point of view Scientific facts may, the Author thinks, be divided into those whick are daily met with by the Student, and which soon become familiar to him, and those which aro learned with considerable pains and afterwards easily forgotten, and which require to be constantly recalled to the mind. The Author has endeavoured to deal with the latter class of facta only. What every one knows, WHO has at all studied Medicine, he has purposely left out. Greater condensation is thus obtained. - To the non-medical reader the Tablets may appear disconnected, and the descriptions they contain (if descriptions they maybe called) may seem dry and naked. The Author believes that the Student will easily supply the links, and give life and shape to the skeleton sketches. This book is intended neither for the idle, nor for absolute beginners. The idle will find that ife contains more details than they will care to master, and that its brevity demands more mental appli. cation than would be agreeable to any one, whose mind has not been trained to close study. Beginners, however, who mean to work, may, after attending a lecture, or reading up in one of the Sfca.ndard Authors a region they have just been dissecting, advantageously revise the subject in the Tablets; and these partial revisions will be found to fix the main points in the mind, and to facilitate the more important revisional efi'ort, which, even the first year's student is usually called upon to make, whenever his lecturer has finished describing a part, or he himself has finished dis. aeoting one. The more or less advanced Students, who are doing, or have done, their work honestly and con- scientiously, are the ones the Author has had mainly in view. September, 1811.TABLE OF CONTENTS. BONES. Pages 1-32. Vertebree, 2-6. Ribs, 7-8. Bones of Skull, 9-16. Bones of Face, 17-24. Skull & Face in General, 25-32. UPPER LIMB. Pages 33-60. Axilla & Front of Arm, 33-40. Front of Forearm & Palm of Hand, 41-48. Paris about Slioulder & Back of Upper Limb, 49-60. LOWER LIMB. Pages 61-96. Front & Inner Side of Thigh, 61-68. Front of Leg and Dorsum of Foot, 69-72. Gluteal Eegion, Back of Thigh, Popliteal Space, 73-80. Back of Leg and Sole of Foot, 81-88. Muscular Attachments, Articulations, Fascitc & Synovial Membranes, 89-96. INGUINAL & FEMORAL HERNIiE & PERINJEUM. Pages 97-108. ABDOMEN. Pages 109-132. Muscles, 110. Peritoneum, 111-113. Superior & Inferior Mesenteric Arteries & Cceliac Axis, 114 & 115. Stomach, Small & Large Intestines, 116-118. Pancreas, Spleen, Bile Ducts, & Liyer, 119-123. Portal System, 124. Ascending Venous Trunks, 125. Abdominal Aorta & its Branches, 126-127. Common & External Iliac Arteries, 128-129. Lumbar Plexus, 130-131. Diaphragm, 132. PELVIS & MALE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. Pages 133-152. Pelvic Fascia, 135. Side view of Pelvis, 136. Eectum, Kidney, Bladder, Testicle, etc.. Spermatic Cord, Prostate Gland, Urethra, Penis, 137-147. Internal Iliac Artery & branches, 148-151. Sacral Plexus, 152. HEAD & NECK. Pages 153-228. Posterior Triangle, 153-160. Anterior Triangle, 161-172. Face, 173-180. Pterygo- Maxillary Eegion, 181-188. Submaxillary Region, 189-200. Orbit, 201-212. Pharynx & Soft Palate, Back of Neck, 213-220. Nasal FossttJ & Deep Vessels & Nerves of Neck, 221-228.THORAX. Pages 229-262. Innominate Veins & Superior Vena Cava, 230. Internal Mammary Artery, 231. Pericardium & Heart, 232-233. Arch of Aorta, Thoracic Aorta & branches, 234-237. Pneumogastric & Phrenic Nerves, 238-230. Coronary Vessels, 240. Pulmonary Vessels, Lungs, & Pleura, 242-244. Mediastinum, 245. Trachea, Bronchi, (Esophagus, 24G-247. Ventc Azygos, 248. Thoracic & Eight Lymphatic Ducts, 249. Interior & Structure of Heart, and Cardiac Plexuses, 250-255. Sympathetic Cords & Ganglia, 256, LARYNX. Pages 258-262. NERVE CENTRES & THEIR COVERINGS. Pages 263-284. Coverings of Brain & Cord, 264-2G6. Surface of Cerebrum, 267-269. Lateral Ventricles, 271-'2r3.' Third Ventricle, 275. Cerebellum, 276-277. Medulla Oblongata, 278. Pourth Ventricle, 279. Mesocephalon, 280. Spinal Cord, 281-282. Arteries of Base of Brain, 284. APPENDIX. Pages 285-294. Bones of Hand & Poot, 285-238. Sinuses of the Dura Mater, 289. Tableau of the Cranial Nerves, 290-291. Abdominal Aponeuroses, 292. Pudic Nerve, Inferior Thyroid Artery, 293. Classification of Joints, 294BONES OF TRUNK.2 THE VERTEBE^. Present for examination; - Body - Forms a short columii, which presents; Ant. Surface - Convex from side to side, concave from above downwards; presents numerous small vascular foramina. Post. Surface - Concave from side to side, fiat from above downwards; presents one or more irregular apertures for exit of venae basis vertebrae. Upper & Under Surfaces - Eough & slightly concave, and surrounded by a pro- minent rim. Pedicles - Join the body to the laminai. They are constricted, and their constriction gives rise to the Notches - Which latter, by the superposition of the vertebrae, form the intervertebral fora- iiiina. Laininse Broad & flat, rough above & below for the ligamenta subflava; bound posteriorly the Foramen - Which, by the superposition of the vertebrae, forms the spinal canal. Spinous process - Projects backwards from the point of junction of tho lamina3. Transverse processes - Two. Project outwards from the sides of the arch. Articular processes - Pour. Project upwards & downwards from the point of junction of the pedicles with the laminse. The superior ones look backwards, the inferior ones look forwards. II, — But little, which would be applicable to each of the three groups of vertebrae, can, it is believed, be added to this description.THE THREE GROUPS of VERTEBRiE. 8 CERVICAL VERTEBRiE — The smallest. Present: - ^ BODY — Small, broad from side to side. Presents: - Upper Surface - Concave from side to side, and rounded off anteriorly. Under Surface - Convex from side to side, and prolonged downwards anteriorly. Anterior Surface - Situated therefore on a lower level than the posterior. PEDICLES —Arise from lower part of body, and of the two NOTCHES — The superior ones are the deepest, and somewhat the narrowosb. LAMINA — Long and narrow. FORAMEN — Large and triangular. SPINOUS PROCESS — Projects horizontally backwards, and is short, bifid, & grooved inferiorly. TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Short, bifid, grooved superiorly, perforated at their base for passage of vertebral artery & vein, and situated on the outer side of the pedicles, in fron t of the articular processes. The existence of the foramen at the base of the cervical transverse pro- cesses, and the situation of these processes on the outer side of the pedicles, are owing to their being foi'med of two roots, which roots correspond, the anterior one to the transverse processes properly so-called, the anterior one to the ribs. AETICULAEr PROCESSES — Form a small vertical column. The superior ones look upwards & backwards, the inferior ones look downwards & forwards. DORSAL VERTEBKwSJ — Intermediate in size. Present: - BODY — Heart-shaped, thicker behind than in front, and has two demi-facets on each side, which facets articulate with the heads of the ribs. PEDICLES —Arise from upper part of body, and of the two NOTCHES —The inferior ones are the deepest and broadest. LAMINA — Short & broad. FORAMEN — Small & round. SPINOUS PROCESS — Long, triangular, oblique, and ends in a single tubercle. TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Long, thick, obliquely directed outwards & backwards, and situated behind the articular processes the pedicles. Their extremity is enlarged, and presents in front an articular facet for tubercle of correspond- ing rib. From the back of the extremity of the few lower dorsal transverse proces. ses arise three tubercles, termed external, inferior, & superior, which tubercles correspond respectively to the transverse processes of tho lumbar vertebraa, and to the accessory & mammillary tubercles found, the former on the back of the transverse processes, the latter on the back of the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. ARTICULAR PROCESSES — Nearly vertical. The superior ones look backwards & outwards, the inferior ones look forwards & inwards. liUMBAR VERTEBR.^ ~ The largest. Present: - BODY — Large, broadest from side to side, rather thicker in front than behind. PEDICLES — Thick ; arise from upper part of body, and of the two NOTCHES — The inferior ones are the deepest & broadest. LAMINA — Short, broad & thick. FORAMEN — Triangular, lai'ger than in the dorsal I'egion, smaller than in the oerr«ty »i SPINOUS PROCESS —Thick, quadrilateral, and ends in a rough vertical border. TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Long, slender, directed transversely outwards, and situated in front of the articular processes, but behind the pedicles, and in a line with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, to which they correspond. On the back of each, near its base, is a small tubercle the accessory tubercle, which points downwards & inwards, and which corresponds to the inferior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processes. ARTICULAR PROCESSES — Thick, strong & vertical. The superior ones are concave, look backwards & iawards, and are fai'ther apart than the inferior ones, which they embrace. The inferior ones are convex, look forwards & outwards, and are nearer to each other than are the superior ones. On the back of each superior articular process is a small tubercle, the mammillary tubercUt which corresponds to the superior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processea-4 THE THBEE GROUPS COMPARED SERIATIM. Sody — Cervical - Small, broad from side to side. Presents:- Upper Surface - Concave from side to side, & rounded off anteriorly. Under Surface — Convex from side to side, & prolonged downwards anteriorly. Anterior Surface - Situated therefore on a lower level than the posterior. Dorsal - Heart-shaped, thicker behind than in front, and has two demi-faoets on each side which derai-facets articulate with the heads of the ribs. LuMBAK - Large, broadest from side to side, rather thicker in front than behind. Pedicles "Cervical - Arise from lower part of body. Dorsal -Arise from upper part of body. Lumbar - Thick; arise from upper part of body. Notches "Cervical - The superior ones are the deepest, and somewhat the narrowest. Dorsal - The inferior ones are the deepest and broadest. Lumbar - The inferior ones are the deepest & broadest. Laminse ~ Cervical - Long & narrow. , Dorsal - Short & broad. Lumbar - Short, broad & thick. Foramen cervical - Large & triangular. Dorsal - Small & round. Lumbar - Triangular, larger than in the dorsal, smaller than in the cervical. Spinous Process — Cervical - Projects horizontally backwards, and is short, bifid, & grooved inferiorly. Dorsal - Long, triangular, oblique, and ends in a single tubercle. Lumbar - Thick, quadrilateral, and ends in a rough vertical border. Transverse Processes — Cervical - Short, bifid, grooved superiorly, perforated at their base for passage of vertebral artery & vein, and situated on the outer side of the pedicles^ in front of the articular processes. Dorsal - Long, thick, obliquely directed outwards & backwards, and situated behind the articular processes 6^ the pedicles. Their extremity is enlarged, and prase uta in front an articular facet for tubercle of corresponding rib. From the back of the extremity of the few lower dorsal transverse proces- ses arise three tubercles, termed exto'nal, inferior^ & superior, which tubercles correspond respectively to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra9, and to the accessory & mammillary tubercles found, the former on the back of the transverse processes, the latter on the back of the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Lumbar - Long, slender, directed transversely outwards, and situated in front of the artictilar processes, but behind thi pedicles, and in a line with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, to which they correspond. On the back of each, near its base, is a small tubercle the accessory tubercle, which points downwards & inwards, and which corresponds to the inferior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processes. Articular Processes — Cervical - Form a small vertical column. The superior ones look upwards & back- wards, the inferior ones look downwards & forwards. Dorsal - Nearly vertical. The superior ones look backwards & outwards, the inferior ones look forwards & inwards. LuMUAR - Thick, strong & vertical. The superior ones are concave, look backwards & iawards, and are farther apart than the inferior ones, which they embrace. The inferior ones are convex, look forwards & outwards, and are nearer to each other than are the superior ones. On the back of each superior lumbar articular process is a small tubercle, the manwiillary tubercle^ which corresponds to the superior tubercles ■ . ^' ^ on the lower dorsal traoBverae procssse*.PEOULIAB VERTEBRjE. Are the t Atlsis ^ [ Vide following Tablet. Axis 3 7th Cervical Vertebra, or Vertebra Prominens Spinous process thick, long, prominent, nealy horizontal; ends in a single tnber. cle for ligamentum nuchsB. Transverse process large, but slightly grooved, seldom bifid. Its foramen ia usually small, sometimes wanting, and seldom gives passage to both artery & vein, 1st Dorsal Vertebra Body broad from side to side and lipped superiorly & behind; presents a complete facet above for head of 1st rib, and a demi-facet below for upper facet on head of 2nd rib. Spinous process thick & but slightly inclined. Articular processes somewhat oblique, as iu the cervical vertebrae. 9th Dorsal Vertebra Usually no inferior demi-facet. 10th Dorsal Vertebra But one costal facet (the superior), which is usually complete. 11th Dorsal Vertebra But one costal facet, which is always complete. Transverse processes short, and without articular facets. 12th Dorsal Vertebra But one costal facet, which is always complete. Transverse processes short, and without articular facets. Inferior articular facets, convex and looking forwards & outwards like those of lumbar vertebrsD. 5th Lumbar Vertebra Body much thicker in front than behind. Spinous process small. Inferior articular processes, farther apart than superior. Transverse processes, large, thick, slightly inclined upwards.ATLAS & AXIS. THE ATLAS Presents anterior & posterior arches, foramen, and lateral masses. ANTERIOR ARCH - Presents: Anteeiob Surf. - Convex, in centre of which is a tubercle for superior oblique portion of longus colli, and for superfioi»H anterior occipito-atloid & superficial anterior atlo-axoid ligaments. Posterior Surf, - Concave, in centre of which is an oval facet, which articulates with odontoid process of axis. Upper & Lower Borders - For deep anterior occipito-atloid & deep anterior atlo. axoid ligaments, POSTERIOR ARCH — Presents just behind the lateral masses the Grooves representing the supericr <V inferior iniei-vertehral notches. - Thi superior grooves, which are the deepest and are sometimes con- verted into complete foramina, transmit the vertebral artery & the suboccipital nerve. The posterior arch then becomes rounded, and is rough above & below for the posterior occipito-atloid & posterior atlo- axoid ligaments. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle for rectus capitis posticus minor. FORAMEN — Large, and divided by transverse ligament (transverse portion of crucial liga- ment) into a posterior part, the largest, for spinal cord & its membranes, and an anterior part, the smallest, which receives the odontoid process of the axis. LATERAL MASSES — Short & thick columns of bone, which present internally, externally, above & below, a tubercle for the transverse ligament; Transverse Process - Large, not bifid nor grooved superiorly, perforated at its base by a very large foramen; Sup> Articular Stirf - Large, oval, concave, converging towards its fellow anteriorly, and looking upwards, inwards & slightly backwards. Inf. Articular Surf. - Eather smaller, flat, circular, and looking downwards & inwards. THE AXIS Presents the following peculiarities Sody " good deal thicker in front than behind. It presents anteriorly a median ridge <Sr» two lateral depressions for part of internal or vertical por- tion of longus colli, and is surmounted by the Odontoid Process - Tooth-like, presenting: Apex - For median or suspensory occipito-odontoid ligament, and, laterally, for lateral occipito-odontoid, or check ligaments. JBody — Articular in front & behind for anterior arch of atlas & transverse ligament. Neck - Constricted, and bound down by transverse ligament. Pedicles Strong & thick, lie beneath the superior articular surface, and are but very slight- ly grooved superiorly. Notches - The superior are very shallow, and lie behind the superior articular surfaces : the inferior ones are much deeper and lie in front of the correspond- ing articular surfaces. Laminae - Thick & strong. Foramen - Large, but smaller than that of atlas. Spinous Process - Thick, bifid, deeply grooved inferiorly. Transverse Processes - Small, pointed; foramen oblique upwards & outwards. Articular Surfaces: Superior - Rest upon the body, pedicles & transverse processes in front gs notches, and are large, flat, circular, and look upwards & out wards. Inferior - Smaller, look downwards & forwards, and are similar to those o\ the other cervical Tertebrao7 THE RIBS. Twelve. Seven Sternal or True - Connected to the sternum by their costal cartil. ages; these increase in length from above downwards. Five False or Asternal - Of which the three first are connected by their car. tilages to the cartilage of the rib above, while the two last, or floating ribsi are entirely disconnected in front. The asternal or false ribs decrease in length from above downwards. The breadth of the ribs decreases from the 1st to the last; so does also the width of the corresponding intercostal spaces. The degree of obliquity of the ribs increases from the Isb to the 9th, and decreases from the 9th to the 12th. It is most marked between the head & the postei-ior angle. The ribs are both curved & twisted upon themselves. The curve of the ribs is most marked in the neighbourhood of the posterior angle. The twist is such that the outer sur- face of the shaft looks slightly downwards behind & slightly upwards in front, and that, if the lower border of the shaft be placed upon a flat horizontal surface from the anterior extremity of the bone to the posterior angle, the part of the bone behind the angle, will be found to pass upwards & in- wards, COMMON CHARACTERS — a rib presents two extremities & a shaft. POSTERIOR EXTREMITY — Presents head, neck & tuberosity. Head - Presents: two oblique facets^ a small superior one & a larger inferior one, which facets articulate with the bodies of two adjoining vertebrae, and are separated by a horizontal ridge, to which the interarticular ligament is attached. Neck - Flattened from before backwards, about an inch in length; presents: Anterior Surf. - Smooth, continuous with inner surface of the shaft. Posterior Surf - Rough for interosseous costo-transverse ligament. Upper Boj-der-TLskS a rough crest, for superior costo-transverse ligament. Lower Border - More or less rounded. Tuberosity - Most prominent in the upper ribs. Presents: Inferior Internal, or Articular Portion - Has a facet for the extremity of the tranverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae with which the head is connected. Superior External^ or Non-articular Portion - Rough for external costo- transverse ligament. SHAFT — Thin & flat. Presents: Outer Surface - Convex, on which is found posteriorly the Angle, or Posterior Angle - A. rough line oblique downwards & forwards, which gives attachment to the tendons of the sacro-lumbalis, its accessory muscle, & the cervicalis ascendens, and which separates a posterior rounded portion, giving attachment to the longissimus dorsi, and increasing in length from the 2nd rib to the 10th, and an anterior flattened portion, smooth, looking slightly downwards behind & slightly upwards in front, which presents anteriorly tho Anterior Angle - Similar to the posterior but more faintly marked. Inner Surface - Concave, looks slightly upwards behind & slightly down- wards in front, and jDi-esents inferiorly a ridge extending over the posterior cwo-thirds of the shaft. & most marked behind, which ridge gives attachment to the internal intercostal muscles, and forms the inner boundary of the Groove - For the intercostal vessels & nerves, which groove is deepest & most marked just in front of the angle. Upper Border - Rounded; gives attachment to both internal <& external inter- costal muscles. Lower Border - Thin & sharp. Forms outer boundary, of foregoing groove, and gives attachment to corresponding external intercostal muscle. ANTERIOR EXTREMITY — Compressed from before backwards, presents a deep oval pitj studded with vascular foramina into which pit the corresponding costal cartilage is receired.BIBS. Are the t First Rib - Broad, flat, horizontal, the most curved, and usually the shortest, Its Surfaces - Look upwards & downwards. i/p/>er Surface - Presents posteriorly a rough impression for scalenus medius, and anteriorly a slightly marked tubercle most prominent internally, for scalenus anticus, which tuber- cle separates two shallow grooves, the anterior one for the subclavian vein, the posterior one for the subclavian artery. Under Surface - Has no ridge nor groove. Borders - Are turned inwards & outwards. Inner Border - Concave, thin j presents inner part of tubercle for scalenus ariticus. Ou^er Border - Convex & rounded. Head - Small, rounded, with a single facet for 1st dorsal vertebra. Neck - Short & rounded. Tuberosity - Large, prominent, situated on outer border. Angle - Blended with tuberosity. Anterior Extremity - Large & thick. SOCOUd Rib - is longer, less curved, only slightly oblique, and scarcely twisted. Surfaces - Look slightly outwards & inwards. Outer or Upper Surface - Rough & prominent towards its middle for second & third digitations of serratus magnus; rough posteriorly for scalenus posticus. Inner or Under Surface - Has but a short & slightly marked groove. Tuberosity & Angle - Close together j the latter slightly marked. Tenth Rib Head - Has usually but a single articular facet. Eleventh Rib Head - But a single articular faoet. No Neck. No Tuberosity. TwelthRib Head - But a single anterior facet. No Neck. No Tuberosity. No Angle. No Groove. The two last ribs are but slightly curved, and are short & pointed, the twelfth rib being sometimes the shortest of all.BONES OF SKULL. 210 THE FBONTAL BONE. Articulates with sphenoid & ethmoid, and with both parietal, nasal, superior maxillary, lachry. mal & malar. Divided into rerfcical or frontal, and horizontal or orbito-nasal portions. VERTICAL OR FRONTAL PORTION — Presents: SiXt. Surface - Presents in median line: Median suture, usually obliterated a few years after birth, and below which is the Nasal eminence; - and laterally from above downwards : Frontal eminence ; Superciliary ridge caused by projection of frontal sinuses, broad inwardly where it joins the nasal eminence; Supraorbital arch, presenting at its inner third the Supraorbital notch or foramen, for supraorbital vessels & nerve, - and which arch terminates externally and internally in J the external & internal angular processes. EXT. ANGULAR PEOCESS - Thick & strong; articulates with malar bone, and presents externally a part of the Temporal ridge. INT. ANGULAR PROCESS-Thinner; articulates with lachrymal bone. and bounds the Nasal notch, which articulates with nasal bones & nasal pro- cesses of superior maxilla, and presents below the Nasal spine. Int. Surface - Concave. Presents in median line and from below upwards : Foramen coecum (completed^behind by ethmoid) for small vein to longitudinal sinus and a process of falx cerebri,' Frontal crest, which is continued into Groove for longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri; - and laterally Cerebral impressions and Grooves for branches of anterior & middle meningeal arteries. HORIZONTAL OR ORBITO-NASAL PORTION — consists of the two orbital plates separated by the ethmoidal notch. ORBITAL PLATES - Present: Under Surface - Concave, on which are seen externally the Lachry77ial fossa for lachrymal gland, and internally the Fovea trochlearis for pulley of superior oblique. Upper Surface - Convex, forms part of anterior fossa of base of skull, and presents well marked cerebral impressions. ETHMOIDAL NOTCH - Is filled up by horizontal plate of ethmoid. - The under surface of its margin presents : Several half-cells, which complete & close the ethmoidal cells, and Two grooves, which form part of Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal n. & ant. ethmoidal vessels, and of Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch is the Nasal spine, which articulates with nasal bones & perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and forms j^rt of roof of nose, and on the sides of which are the Openings of the frontal sinuses The circumference of the bone is thick in the vertical or frontal portion, where it is serrated for articulation with the parietals, aud ia bevelled at the expense of the inner table, above, of the outer table, below. In the horizontal portion the circumference is thin & serrated for articulation with the lesser wing of the sphenoid. At the junction of the two portions of the bone the circumference presents a large triangular rough surface for articulation with the greater wing of the sphenoid.11 THE OCCIPITAL BONE. Articulates with parietals, mastoid & petrous portions of temporals, sphenoid & atlas, and presents: OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents from behind forwards: Ext. occipital protuberance for ligamentiim nuchse; * Ext. occipital crest, from which are given off laterally the Sup. curved line, for trapezius, sterno-mastoid & occipito-frontalis; and the Inf. curved line for recti capitis postici major & minor which are also inserted into depression below. — Between the two curved lines are inserted the complexus, splenius & superior oblique. Foramen magnum for cord and its membranes, spinal accessory nerves & vertebral arteries, on outer side of which foramen are the Condyles, oblong, converging in front, convex from before backwards, looking downwards & outwards; rough inwardly for attachment of check ligaments, and having in front Ant, condyloid foramen for hypoglossal nerve; having behind Post, condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by posterior condyloid fora- men for a small vein to lateral sinus, and having on their outer side the yugular process for rectus capitis lateralis & lateral occipito-atloid ligament; Basilar process presenting in middle line the Pharyngeal spine for tendinous raphe & superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally a Rough depression for recti capitis antici major & minor. INNER SURFACE — Concave, presents from behind forwards: Crucial ridge, to centre of which corresponds the torcular Herophili, and of which the Upper division ascends to superior angle, and is deeply grooved for superior longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri; Inf. division, or int. occipital crest, descends to foramen magnum where it bifurcates; gives attachment to falx cerebelli. Lateral divisions bound posteriorly the inferior occipital fossae, and are deeply grooved for lateral sinuses & tentorium cerebelli ^ Foramen magnum, near side of which are the Ant. condyloid foramina & sometimes the Post, condyloid foramina. Basilar groove, which supports medulla oblongata & pons, and on each side of which is a half Groove for inferior petrosal sinus. BORDERS - Four; Sujjerior - Form lambdoid suture by articulating with parietals. Inferior - Articulate with mastoid & petrous portions of temporal, and assist in forming jugular foramen or foramen lacernm posteriuA, ANGLES - Four: Superior - Received between the two parietal bones, and corresponds to posterior fontanelle. Inferior - Joins with body of sphenoid about 18th or 20th year. Lateral - Beceived between posterior inferior angle of parietal and mastoid portion of temporal; presents on its inner surface outer end of groove for lateral sinus.12 THE TEMPORAL BONE. Is situated at side of base of skull, and articulates with parietal, occipital, sphenoid, malar & inferior maxillary bones. Is divided into squamous, mastoid & petrous portions. SQUAMOUS PORTION - Presents outer & inner surfaces and circumference. Outer Surface — Convex, forms part of temporal fossa and presents lower part of temporal ridge hehind, zygomatic process in front, s^nd glenoid fossa below. ZYGOMATIC PROCESS — First projects outwards, and is broad & flattened from above downwards. It then twists forwards and presents: Borders - upper long & thin for temporal f.; lower short & thick for masseter. SuRPACES - outer convex, inner concave also for masseter. Apex - Serrated, articulates with malar bone. Base - Presents three roots: Anterior - Wide & transversely directed forming emincntia articularts; Middle - Forms posterior boundary of glenoid fossa j Posterior - Forms origin of temporal ridge. GLENOID FOSSA — Is comprised between anterior & middle roots of the zygoma, and presents the GrLASERiAN FissuRE - For processus gracilis of malleus, laxator tympani m., & tympanic artery, and divides the fossa into Anterior part - Articular, and covered with cartilage which is prolonged over the eminentia articularis. Posterior part - Non-articular, bounded behind by vaginal & auditory processes & middle root of zygoma. Inner Surface — Concave. Presents cerebral impressions, and grooves for middle meningeal artery. Circumference — Thin above and behind, where it is bevelled internally and articulates with parietal J thick in front, where it is slightly bevelled externally and articulates with great wing of sphenoid. MASTOID PORTION — Presents outer & inner surfaces and borders. Outer Surface — Rough; presents: Mastoid foramen for a vein to lateral sinus, and is prolonged into Mastoid process for insertion of sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis & trachelo-mastoid, and on the inner side of which is the Digastric groove for origin of posterior belly of digastric, and further inwards the Occipital groove for occipital artery. Inner Surface — Forms part of posterior fossa of base of skull and presents descending portion of Groove for lateral sinus. ' Borders - Post. & Sup. — Thick & serrated for posterior inferior angle of parietal and lower border of occipital. PETROUS PORTION — vide next Tablet.13 PETROUS PORTION of the TEMPORAL BONE, Pyramidal, directed forwards & inwards and wedged in between the sphenoid & the basi- lar process of the occipital. Presents a B^iSe — Its exposed part presents the • Meatus auditorius externus, the lower part of which is surronnded by the Auditory process, to which is attached the cartilage of the pinna. Apex — Presents the Internal orifice of the carotid canal; and forms the posterior & outer boundaries of the foramen lacerum medium. Axit. Surface — Forms posterior boundary of middle fossa of base of skull, and presents from before backwards & outwards the: Internal orifice of the carotid canal, Depression for Gasserian ganglion. Hiatus Fallopii ■with, a gj'oove leading to it, both for large superficial petrosal nerve and petrosal branch of middle meningeal artery, and near which hiatua are frequently seen Two or three other small foramina for small superficial petrosal nerve, petrosal branch of glosso-pharyngeal & branch of glosso-pharyngeal to large superficial petrosal nerve. Eminence corresponding to the superior semi-circular canal, on the outer side of which is a Depression corresponding to the cavity of the tympanum. Post. Surface — Forms anterior boundary of posterior fossa of base of skull, and presents : Meattis auditorius internus for facial nerve and auditory artery & nerve; Opening of Aqueductus Vestibuli for small artery & vein to vestibule & a process of the dura mater. Inf. or Basilar Surface — Presents in a diagonal line from before backwards & outwards: Rough surface for origin of levator palati & tensor tympanij Inferior orifice of carotid canal; Vaginal process which embraces root of Styloid process, which gives attachment from above downwards to the stylo-pharyngeus, -hyoideus & -glossus muscles, and to the stylo-hyoid & -maxillary ligts., Stylo-mastoid foranien for facial nerve & stylo-mastoid artery. - Behind & on inner side of the carotid canal & vaginal process are the Jugular surface, which articulates with jugular process of occipital, and the Jugular fossa for sinus of internal jugular vein, which fossa assists in forming jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius, and has near to it: Openingfor Arnold's nerve, on its outer wall, Opening for JacobsorCs nerve, in front, on bony ridge between it & carotid canal. Opening of Aqueductus Cochlece, in front & to inner side, close to posterior border of the petrous bone. Borders— Three: Superior - G-rooved for superior petrosal sinus & attachment of tentorium cerebelli. Posterior - Grooved in front for inferior petrosal sinus; presents jugular fossa behind. -Amerior - Its INNER PART articulates with spine of sphenoid; its outer part is joined by a suture to the squamous portion of the bone. In the angle of junction of these two portions are found the Canal for the tensor tympani muscle above, and the Osseous portion of the Eustachian tube below, on the outer side of which latter opening is tho Canal of Huguier for exit of chorda tympani. ^ ^-^14 THE SPHENOID BONE. Is situated at front part of base of skall, and articulates with the 7 other cranial bones & with Presents for examination : vomer & both malar & palate bones. BODY — Is cuboid, but presents only four free surfaces, the two lateral surfaces being continuous . ^ „ ^^^^ wings & pterygoid processes. UPPER SURFACE —Presents from before backwards: Ethmoidal spme, which articulates with ethmoid j Smooth surface slightly elevated in median line, and which supports olfactory nerves j Optic groove leading laterally to optic foramen,* Olivary process ; Pituitary fossa or sella turcica bounded laterally & in front by middle clinoid processes; Dorsum sella notched laterally for 6th pair of cranial nerves, and presenting posterior • clinoid processes at its superior angles. On each side of body is the Cavernous gjvove curved like an italic ^ for internal carotid artery. ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents in middle line the Sphenoidal crest, which articulates with perpendicular plate of ethmoid; on either side the Openings of the sphenoidal sinuses, which are partly closed in front by the Sphenoidal turbinated bones or bones of Berlin. - This surf, articulates laterally with OS planum of ethmoid, and inferiorly with orbital process of palate bone. UNDER SURFACE — Presents in middle line the Rostrum, which is received between the alae ot the vomer, and is continuous anteriorly with sphenoidal crest; on each side of the rostrum is the Vaginal process, which passes inwards beneath, and articulates with, the alae of the vomer, and externally to which is the Pterygo.palatine groove, which forms pterygo-palatine canal with sphenoidal ^0^r*^-r~LT^-ef^-r^ rM-r-p-n..-, . . . , proccss of palatc bonc. POSTERIOR SURFACE — Articulates with basilar process of occipital bone, with which GREATER WINGS — Present: it unites at age of 18 or 20. SUPERIOR or CEREBRAL SURFACE — Forms part of middle fossa of base ol skull, and presents from before backwards at its inner part; Foramen rotundum for superior maxillary nerve; Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small petrosal nerves & small meningeal artery, on the inner side of which latter foramen is sometimes seen the Forai7ien Vesalii for a small vein; Foramen spinosu??i for middle meningeal artery. EXTERNAL SURFACE — Is divided by pterygoid ridge into: Superior part, which enters into formation of temporal fossa, and Inferior part, which assists in forming zygomatic fossa, and presents posteriorly Spine of sphenoid for internal lateral ligament of jaw & laxator tympani muscle. ANTERIOR or ORBITAL SURFACE — Quadrilateral; assists in forming outer wall of orbit and sphenoidal & spheno-maxillary fissures, and articulates with frontal & malar bones. Presents a small spine for lower head of external rectus. CIRCUMFERENCE. From Back op Body to Spine - Forms anterior or outer margin of foramen lacerum medium, in front, and articulates, behind, with petrous portion of temporal b. Fkom Spine to Tip - Articulates with squamous portion of temporal bone, being bevelled internally below, externally above. From Tip to Front op Body - Presents externally a broad triangular surface for frontal bone, and forms, internally, lower boundary of sphenoidal fissure. LESSER WINGS or PROCESSES of INGRASSIAS — Long, thin, triangular: UPPER SURFACE — Smooth, forms part of anterior fossa of base of skull; UNDER SURFACE — Forms back of roof of orbit and upper boundary of sphenoidal fissure, which latter is bounded internally by body of sphenoid, and transmits 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves, and ophthalmic nerve & vein. ANTERIOR BORDER — Articulates with frontal bone; POSTERIOR BORDER — Forms at its inner extremity the anterior clinoid process. INNER EXTREMITY — Presents two roots which bound optic foramen. PTERYGOID PROCESS — consists of two plates which bound pterygoid fossa, and are separated below by a triangular notch filled up by pterygoid process of palate bono. - Its • ANTERIOR SURFACE — Forms posterior wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents anterior orifice of vidian canal. EXTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE — Broad, thin, inclined outwards. Forms inner & outer walls of zygomatic & pterygoid fossae respectively, and gives attachment to internal & external pterygoid muscles. INTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE — Narrower «& longer. Its Outer & inner surfaces - Form respectively inner boundary of pterygoid fossa & outer boundary of posterior nares. At its apex it presents Hamular process for reflection of tendon of tensor palatix Sb&d at its base &-a//^«</j'5>wa for origin of that mnsole.15 THE ETHMOID BONE. Light, spongy, cuboid, projects downwards from between orbital plates of fronts, and enters into formation of orbits & nasal fossaa. Articulates with fj-ontal, sphenoid & sphenoidal turbinated bones^ both nasal, supei'ior maxillary^ „ , , lachrymal^ palate, inferior turbinated &[> vomer. May be divided into three parts : HORIZONTAL OR CRIBRIFORM PLATE - Received into ethmoidal notch of frontal. Forms part of roof of nose & of anterior fossa of base of skull, and presents in the median line the Crista galli, which gives attachment to falx cerebri, and articulates below <6 in front with frontal bone, completing foramen coecum; - and on each side Three rows of foramina for branches of the olfactory nerve, and more anteriorly a Fissure for nasal branch of ophthalmic nei've. PERPENDICULAR PLATE — Descends from under surface of former, and assists in forming nasal septum. Is more or less inclined to one or other side, and presents numerous grooves for branches of olfactory nerve. Articulates in front with frontal spine and nasal bones, behind with crest of sphenoid & vomer, and joins below with triangular cartilage of nose. LATERAL lillASSES — Cubold, and enclose a number of irregular cavities, the ethmoid cells, which are divided into an anterior & a posterior set. Their Anterior, Upper & Posterior Surfaces - Present numerous half-cells, which are ' completed respectively by articulation with Lachrymal bones & nasal processes of superior maxilla^ Frontal bone. Sphenoidal turbinated bones & orbital processes of palate bones. - The upper surface also presents two grooves which assist in forming the anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina. Outer Surface - Presents a thin smooth plate of bone the os planum which forms inner wall of orbit, and articulates with •. Lachrymal bone, in front; Orbital plate of frontal, Body of sphenoid, hehmd ; Superior maxillary & orbital process of palate bone, below. Under Surface - Presents under surface of middle turbinated process and the projecting Unciform process, which articulates with inferior turbinated bone, and assists in forming inner wall of the antrum of Highmore. Inner Surface - Forms part of outer wall of nasal fossae, and presents from above down- wards the Superior turbinated process, small and corresponding to post part of nasal fossae j Superior meatus, which communicates with posterior ethmoidal cells ; Middle turbinated process, which extends along whole length of lateral mass; Middle meatus, which communicates with the anterior ethnaoidal cells (and through these with the frontal sinus ) by means of a wide funnel-shaped canal, the Jnfundibulum,16 THE PARIETAL BONE. OUTER SUEFACli — Convex, and presents: Parietal foramen at upper & back part) Parietal eminence ; Temporal ridge, below which it forms part of temporal fossa. INNER SURFACE — Concave, and presents: Cerebral eminences & depressions ; Furrows, for ramifications of middle meningeal artery j Half-groove for superior longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri | Depressions for Pacchionian bodies. BORDERS — Four: Superior - Form sagittal suture by articulating with each other j Inferior - Are: In Front - Bevelled externally & overlapped by great wing of sphenoid & squamous portion of temporal j Behind - Serrated for articulation with mastoid portion of temporal. Anterior - Serrated, and form coronal suture by articulating with frontal. Posterior - Serrated, and form lambdoid suture by articulating with occipital, ANGLES — Four. Anterior Superior & Posterior Superior -Correspond to anterior & posterior fontanelles, and form part of foregoing sutures. Anterior Inferior - Received between frontal «fc great wing of sphenoid, an inch above and behind superior external angle of orbit. - Is grooved internally and sometimes c!ianelled for anterior branch of middle meningeal artery. Posterior Inferior ~ Articulates with mastoid portion of temporal, and pre. sents part of groove for lateral siuns.8 BONES OF FACE.18 SUPERIOE MAXILLABY BONE-lst Tablet. Forms the whole of upper jaw by its union with its fellow. Assists in forming: Roof of mouth, floor & outer wall of nose, floor of orbit ; Zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fosscB ; Spheno-maxillary & pterygo-maxillary fissures. May be described as presenting a body and four processes, malar, nasal, alveolar & palate. BODY— Hollowed out to form Antrum of Highmore. - Presents: OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents from within outwards & backwards; Incisive or myrtiforvi fossa for depressor alse nasi, Canine fossa, large & deep for origin of levator anguli oris & compressor nasi; at upper part of which fossa is the Infra-orbital foramen for infra-orbital vessels & nerve; Vertical ridge, which descends from malar process, and behind which is the Maxillary tuberosity, which is rough along its posterior border for articulation with the palate bone & sometimes with pterygoid process of sphenoid. INNER SURFACE — Divided into two unequal parts by palate process. PART ABOVE PALATE PEOCESS - Presents from before backwards the Inferior turbinated crest, above and below which are Two wide antero-posterior grooves, which form part of middle & inferior meatuses, and the former of which is surmounted by the Superior turbinated crest,r^\n.Q\\ lies on inner surface of nasal process; A deep groove which is converted into nasal duct by articulation with la- chrymal & inferior turbinated bones ; Apertitre of Antrum of Highmore very large in disarticulated bone but diminished in articulated skull by ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior turbinated & palate bones, and presenting inferiorly a fissure into which is received the maxillary process of the palate bone. A rough surface which articulates with palate bone and is divided into an anterior & a posterior portion by a Vertical groove, which forms part of posterior palatine canal. PART BELOW PALATE PROCESS - Forms anterior part of roof of mouth. UPPER SURFACE — Forms greater part of floor of orbit, and is bounded • On Inner Side - By a thin edge which articulates from before backwards with lachrymal bone, os planum & orbital process of palate bone. On Outer Side - By a rounded margin which forms part of spheno- maxillary fissure. IN Front - By lower part of circumference of orbit. - It presents behind Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which groove becomes con- verted in front into Ltfra-orbital canal; — and at its anterior & inner part a Depression for inferior oblique muscle. Antrum of Highmore or Maxillary Sinus - is a large cavity hollowed out of body of the superior maxillary bonei Its walls correspond to the three surfaces of the body of the bone; they are very thin, and contain the infra-orbital & ant .& post, dental canals. Its aperture communicates with the middle meatus of the nasal fossae, and is much diminished in size, and generally divided into two by articu- lation with ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior turbinated & palate bones. Several laminse of bone project into its cavity, as do also the roots of the 1st & 3nd molar teeth, which sometimes perforate its floor.19 SUPEEIOR MAXILLARY B0NE-2nd Tablet. MALAR PROCESS—Triangular, and presents: Ant. Surface - Concave, forms part of canine fossa; Post. Surface - Concave, forms part of zygomatic fossa j Sup. Surface - Rough for articulation with malar bone. NASAL PROCESS — Triangular, and presents: Outer Surface - Concave, gives attachment to orbicularis palpebrarum, tendo oculi, levator labii superioris alaeque uasi. Inner Surface - Presents from above downwards : Rough stirface, which articulates with ethmoid bone ; Superior turbinated crest which articulates with middle turbinated bone; Inferior turbinated crest with the two grooves already described. Ant. Border - Thin, serrated above for articulation with nasal bone, and continuous below with margin of the deep notch, which bounds laterally the anterior aperture of the nasal fossae. Post. Border - Presents a groove which forms part of nasal duct, of which groove the Inner inargin articulates with lachrymal bone, while the Outer jfiargin forms part of circumference of orbit, and presents the Lachrymal tubercle at its junction with orbital surface. ALVEOLAR PROCESS — Forms a curve of a semi-horse-shoe shape. Is thicker behind than in front, and presents eight alveoli in adults, five in children. PALATE PROCESS — Presents : Upper Surface - Concave from side to side. Forms part of floor of nasal fossa, and presents in front the Incisor forai7ien or foramen of Stenson, which is completed on its inner side by a thin lamina of bone directed backwards from its anterior to its posterior border (from the latter of which this lamina remains disconnected in youth). This foramen leads below into the Anterior palatine canal formed by the junction of the two bones, into which canal when it is viewed from below, are also seen to open two other small foramina, the Foramina of Scarpa situated in the suture between the two lamina3. - The foramina of Stenson transmit the anterior palatine vessels, while the foramina of Scarpa transmit the naso-palatine nerves, of which the right one is said to be posterior to the left. Under Surface - Concave, rough, forms part of roof of mouth. - Is channelled by a Groove (sometimes by a canal) for the posterior palatine vessels & anterior or great palatine nerve, and presents behind anterior part of lower orifice of Posterior palatine canal, t Inner Border - Raised into a ridge which forms with its fello.w a groove for vomer, and presents in front the Anterior nasal spine. Ant. Border - Forms lower part of anterior aperture of nasal fcasse. Post. Border - Articulates with horizontal plate of palate bone. tror foramina of Stenson & Scarpa, see Eoof of mouth, p. 26.20 THE PALATE BONE-lst Tablet, Presents horizontal and vertical platest -from the point of junction of wtioh two plates the pterygoid process jpro^ectB backwards & outwards, -while from the upper border of the vertical plate project upwards, the orbital process in front, and the sphenoidal process behind. It articulates with its fellow^ the superior maxilla^ sphenoid, ethmoid^ inferior turbinated & vomer. It assists in forming -principally, the floor & outer wall of the nasal fossa and the roof of the mouth, and -secondarily, the floor of the orbits the pterygoid & spheno'maxillary fossa, and the inner wall of the Antrum of High more. HORIZONTAL PLATE - Presents : Sup. or Nasal Sueface - Smooth and concave from side to side, forms posterior part of floor of nasal fossa. Inf. or Buccal Surface - Eough, marked posteriorly by a Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati, and more externally by a Deep notch, which assists in forming the posterior palatine foramen. A little further back, on the under surface of the pterygoid process, are the External h posterior small palatine foramina for external and posterior palatine nerves. Anterior Border - Serrated for articulation with palate process of superior maxilla. Posterior Border - Free for attachment of soft palate. Inner Border - Thick, surmounted by a ridge, which forms with its fellow a groove for vomer j presents posteriorly the Posterior nasal spine for azygos uvulae. VERTICAL PLATE - Presents: Inner Surface - Presents the Superior & middle turbinated crests, above, between & below which are seen A narrow &> two wider horizontal grooves, which form part respectively of the superior, middle & infei-ior meatuses. Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Smooth surface, which forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and is prolonged inferiorly into a ■ Vertical groove, which assists in forming the posterior palatine canal. In front of these is a Rough surface, which articulates with the superior maxilla; and further forwards still a Narrow smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of antrum. Behind is a Rough surface, which articulates above with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, below with the superior maxilla. Anterior Border - Thin, irregular, presents a projecting lamina, the Maxillary process, which assists in closing the lower part of the orifice of the antrum, and, forming a schindylesis, penetrates into a fissure of the superior maxilla at the lower part of that orifice. Posterior Border - Articulates with the inner plate of the pterygoid process. Upper Border - Presents the Orbital process in front, the Sphenoidal process behind, which processes are separated by a deep Notch forming the greater part of the spheno-palatine foramen (which foramen is completed above by the sphenoidal turbinated bone).21 THE PALATE BONE—2nd Tablet. PTERYGOID PHOCiEjSS — I'its into the notch between the two plates of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and presents: Posterior Surface - Triangular, concave, forms part of pterygoid fossa. Two Lateral Surfaces - Eongh, articulate with the two plates of the pterygoid process & witk ' ^ the superior maxilla. Under Surface - Forms part of the roof of the mouth, and presents the External & posterior small palatine foramina for external & posterior palatine nerves. ORBITAL PROCESS — Projects upwards & outwards from the anterior part of the upper border of the vertical plate, and presents: t Three articular Surfaces - Anterior,posterior & internal, - which join respectively with the superior maxillary bone, the sphenoidal turbinated bone & the lateral mass of the ethmoid. Two NON-ARTICULAR SURFACES •- Supei'ior or Orbital - Forms posterior part of floor of orbit ; External or Spheno-maxillary - Forms part of inner wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, and is separated from the foregoing by a Rounded border^ which forms part of spheno-m axillary fissure. SPHENOIDAL PROCESS — Curves upwards, backwards & inwards, and presents: Upper Surface - Articulates with sphenoid & sphenoidal turbinated bones, and assists in for.. ming pterygo-palatine canals Outer Surface - Articulates behind with pterygoid process, and forms in front that small parfc of inner wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, which lies behind spheno-palat. foramen Inner Surface - Concave, forms part of outer wall of nasal fossa.22 THE SMALL BONES of the FACE. N'ASAL BONES — Form bridge of nose. - Narrow & thick above, wide and thin below. Present: Outer Surface - Convex from side to side, concave from above downwards at tipper part. Presents several arterial grooves and a foramen for a small vein. Inner Surface - inversely curved; presents a groove for external branch of nasal nerve. Borders: Superior - Narrow, thick, articulates with frontal; Inferior - Broad, thin, joined to lateral cartilage of nose; has a notch for nasal nerve; External - Articulates with nasal process of superior maxillary bone; Internal - Thick, articulates with its fellow; is prolonged backwards into a crest which articulates with nasal spine of frontal & perpendicular plate of ethmoid. LACHRYMAL BONES — Form front part of inner wall of orbit. Present i Outer Surface - Presents from before backwards : Groove, wJiich forms part of nasal duct; Ridge, wlich gives attachment to tensor tarsi muscle ; Smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of orbit. Inner Surface - Presents a furrow corresponding to foregoing ridge; forms part in front of middle meatus, and articulates behind with ethmoid bone. Borders: Anterior, Superior, Posterior - Articulate respectively with nasal & internal angular processes of superior maxillary & frontal bones, and with os planum of ethmoid. Inferior - Articulates behind with orbital plate of superior maxillary, and, in front, is prolonged downwards into a pointed process, the hajjiulus lachymalis, which arti- culates with lachrymal process of inferior turbinated bone. lyiALAR BONES — Articulate with temporal, frontal, sphenoid & superior maxillary bones, and form part of outer wall & floor of orbit, and of temporal & zygo- matic fossEe. Present: Outer Surface - Convex; presents a small malar foramen for malar branch of temporo- malar nerve, and gives attachment to the zygomatic muscles. Inner Surface - Articulates internally with superior maxillary bone by a rough trian- gular surface, and is concave externally, where forms part of temporal & zygo- matic fossse and presents a foramen for temporal branch of temporo-malar nerve. Orbital Process-Projects backwards forming part of outer wall & floor of orbit & of tern- poral fossa; articulates from above downwards with fi'ontal, sphenoid & sunerior maxillary bones, and bounds spheno-maxillary fissure anteriorly. - On its inner surface it presents one or two temporo-malar foramina. Frontal Process - Thick, vertical, articulates with external angular process of frontal. Zygomatic Process - Long, horizontal, articulates witb zygomatic process of temporal. Borders: Antero-Superior - Forms lower & outer part of circumference of orbit. Antero-Inferior - Articulates with superior maxillary bone. Postero-Superior & Postero-Inferior - Are continuous with superior and inferior margins of zygomatic process. INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES — Thin, and extend along whole length of outer wall of nasal fossa. Present : Outer concave & Inner convex Surfaces, marked by vascular grooves and canals, and the latter of which looks upwards & inwards. Upper Border - Which, from before backwards : Articulates with inferior turbinated crest of superior maxillary; Forms lachrymal process^ which articulates with lachrymal & superior maxillary bones and completes nasal duct; Presents maxillary process, which curves downwards and outwards over lower edge of orifice of antrum of Highmore. Presents eth^noidalprocess, which ascends to join unciform process of ethmoid. Lower Border - is free and slightly thickened. VOMER — Forms posterior part of nasal septum, and is frequently bent to one or other side. Presents: Lateral Surfaces - Present vascular & nervous furrows, and naso-palatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. Superior Border - Presents a deep groove bounded by two projecting ales, between which the rostrum of the sphienoid. is received, and which are overlapped inferiorly by the vaginal processes of the same bone. Inferior Border - Articulates with ridge formed by palate plates of superior maxillary & palate bones. Anterior Border - is grooved above for articulation with perpendicular plate of eth- moid and joined below to cartilage of the septum. Posterior Border - Free, thicker above than below j separates posterior apertures of of the najros-23 INFEBIOR MAXILLARY BONE. IB curved upon itself, and consists of a middle horizontal portion, the body, and of two laternl vertical portions, the rami. BODY — Presents: iEiXT. SURFACE — Convex from side to side and concave from above downwards. _ _ _ Presents in median line the Symphysis, a vertical ridge, at the lower part of which is the Mental process, from which the External oblique line passes backwards, first horizontally, giving attachment to depressores labii inferioris & anguli oris, and then obliquely & becoming continuous with anterior border of ramus. - Laterally above the oblique line is tho Incisive fossa for levator menti; and more externally the Mental foramen for mental vessels & nerve. The Buccinator is attached above oblique line behind, z,\\<\ the platysma, below it, in front. INT. SURFACE — Concave from side to side and convex from above downwards. Presents the Symphysis forming a linear depression, close to which near its middle are the superior & inferior pairs of Genial tubercles giving attachment respectively to the genio-hyo-glossi & genio-hyoidei. Below these tubercles begins tho Internal oblique line or mylo-hyoid ridge for mylo-hyoid muscle, faintly marked at first, but becoming more distinct as it passes upwards & backwards. - Above & below this line are seen near the sym. physis tliG Sublingual fossa for sublingual gland; Rough depression for anterior belly of digastric; and more externally Submaxillary fossa for submaxillary gland. Above posterior extremity of mylo-hyoid ridge is attached the superior coQstrictor of the pharynx. SUP. COR13ER — Thickest behind, where it is dejected inwards; presents sixteen alveolae in the adult, ten in the child. INF. BORDER — Thickest and slightly everted anteriorly. R A IMII — Are quadrilateral, and present: EXT. SURFACE — Marked by oblique ridges for masseter. INT. SURFACE — Presents near middle Aperture of inferior dental canal, of which the anterior margin forms a prominent Spine for internal lateral ligament of lower jaw ; - and from which passes dowmvards & forwards the Mylo-hyoid groove for mylo-hyoid vessels & nerve, behind which groove is a Rough surface for internal pterygoid muscle. UPPER BORDER — Presents the coronoid & condyloid processes separated by sigmoid notch. Coronoid process — '^vizM^yAzx, gives attachment by its surfaces & borders to tern- poral muscle, and presents at its lower & front part a groovo which is continued downwards upon tho alveolar process, an(3 which gives attachment inferiorly to the buccinator muscle. Condyloid process — Consists of Condyle - Oblong, convex from side to side and from before backwarcls & nearly transverse, its long axis when prolonged, meeting that of its fellow near anterior margin of foramen magnum. Neck - Flattened from before backwards, convex behind, excavated ii* front for external pterygoid muscle, presenting externally & tubercle for external lateral ligament of ja-vr, ANTERIOR BORDER — Continuous with external oblique line; thin above, thicker below where grooved for buccinator. LOWER & POSTERIOR BORDERS — Thick and form inferiorly the Angle of the jaw, which gives attachment to masseter & internal pterygoid muscles and to stylo-maxillary ligament.24 HYOID BONE. Horse-shoe shaped, and suspended by stylo-hyoid ligaments from tips of styloid processes of temporal bones. Consists in youth of five parts, the body and the greater & lesser cornua, which parts are joined together by four arthrodiaej the cornua usually join with the body, the greater ones towards the middle period of life, the lesser ones in advanced age. BODY — Quadrilateral. Presentsi Anterior Surface - Convex, looks upwards & forwards, and is marked by a crucial ridge. The part above the ridge gives attachment to the hyo-glossus, genio-hyo.glossus & genio-hyoid; the part below the ridge gives attachment to the mylo-hyoid, the stylo-hyoid & the aponeurosis of the digastric. Posterior Surface - Smooth, concave j looks backwards & downwards, and is sepa- rated from the epiglottis & the thyro-hyoid membrane by a quantity of loose areolar tissue, in which a bursa is usually found. Upper Border - Thick & rounded J gives attachment to genio-hyo-glossus by its an- terior lip, to thyro-hyoid membrane by its posterior lip. Lower Border - Thinner; gives attachment to sterno-, omo-, & thyro-hyoid. QKEI AT£jR CORNU — Projects backwards & slightly upwards, giving attachment super- iorly to the hyo-glossus, internally to the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and externally to the thyro-hyoid. It diminishes in size from before backwards, and is flattened from above downwards. Its slightly enlarged extremity gives attachment to the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. LESSER CORNU — Small, conical; projects upwards & backwards from point of junction of body & greater cornu, and gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid ligament.SKULL AND FACE IN GENERAL. 426 UNDER SURFACE of BASE of SKULL. Is bounded from before backwards by • Alveolar arch (2r» teeth of upper jaw ; Lower border of malar bone^ zygoma <5r» imaginary line from zygoma to mastoid process} Superior curved line of occipital bone. Grouping points of interest on under surface of skull, the latter may be said to present from before backwards: Roof of Mouth; Posterior Aperture of Nares : Under Surface of Basilar Process, on each side of which is a Quadrilateral Space, the angles of which are formed by the Condyle of the occipital bone, and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatic and Mastoid Processes. Under Surface of Reviaining Part of Occipital Bone. ROOF OF THE MOUTH Is formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & horizontal plates of palate bones, and is bounded laterally & in front by alveolar arch. Is concave, uneven & marked by a crucial suture, and presents from before backwards & outwards: Lower opening of anterior palatine canal, into which may be seen to open, laterally Foramina of Stenson for anterior palatine vessels, and in middle line, Fora??iina of Scarpa for naso-palatine nerves; A groove leading to Posterior palatine foramen for post, palatine vessels & ant. or great palatine n.; Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati; Accessory or small palatine foramina, posterior <2r* external, for posterior or small, and the external palatine nerves. POSTERIOR APERTURE OF THE NARES Is bounded by body of sphenoid, horizontal plate of palate bone, and inner plates of pterygoid processes, which latter present inferiorly Hamtilar process for reflection of tendon of tensor palati, and superiorly, Scaphoid fossa for origin of that muscle. Is divided it;to two by vomer, and presents inferiorly Poiierior nasal spine for origin of azygos uvulse, and superiorly Expanded aloe of vomer, which articulate with rostrum & with vaginal processes of sphenoid, and on either side of which are Pterygo-palatine canals formed in part by sphenoid & in part by palate bones, and giving4)assage to pterygo-palatine vessels & nerves. UNDER SUJIFACE OF THE BASILAR PROCESS Presents i:i middle line Pharyngeal i t-ine for median raphe & superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally, Rough depj'es'sions for insertion of recti capitis antici major & minor. QUADRILATORAL SPACE—y. next Tablet. UNDER SURFACE OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE (Remaining Part)-Pre. sents: Foramen magnum for cord & its membranes, vertebral arteries & spinal accessory nerves, on outer side of which foramen are Condyles of occipital boiie having Jugular process on their onter fide, Anterior condyloid foramen in front. Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by the posterior condyloid foramen behind. Ext. Occipital Crest giving oiF laterally Superior 6^ Inferior ctirved lines, and ending posteriorly in External occipital p7'otuberance. For parts just mentioned see Occipital Bone.27 [LATORAL SPACE. Is formed by the under snrfaces of the occipital bone and of the squamous & petrous por. tions of the temporal end of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and is situated on either side of the basilar process. It is quadrangular. ITS ANGLES Are formed by the Condyles of the occipital bone and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatic & Mastoid processes. (Vide these parts in respective Tablets.) It is divided in two by a well marked diagonal line obliquely directed from before back- wards & outwards, and presents points of interest both in front of & behind its diagonal line. ITS DIAGONAL LINE Extends from the root of the pterygoid to the mastoid process, and presents from be- fore backwards & outwards the Forai7ien lacenim mednmi closed by cartilage, and crossed superiorly by the internal carotid artery & the Vidian nerve; Rough surface for origin of levator palati & tensor tympanij Inf. orifice of Carotid Canal; Vaginal process; Styloid process, which gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid & -maxillary liga- ments and from above downwards to the stylo-pharyngeus, -hyoideus & -glossus muscles: Stylo-mastoid foramen for facial nerve & stylo-mastoid artery. IN FRONT & on the OUTER SIDE of the DIAGONAL LINE Are found from before backwards & outwards the Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small petrosal nerves and small menin- geal artery, and on inner side of which is sometimes found the Fo7-amen F(?j<7//z for a small vein ; Foramen Spinosum for middle meningeal artery; Spine of the Sphenoid for internal lateral ligament of jaw & laxator tympani m. Openings of the canal for the tensor tympani muscle (above) of the osseous portion of the Eustachian tttbe (below). Glenoid fossa divided by Glaserian fissure into Anterior part, covered with cartilage which latter is prolonged over the emimentia articularis; Posterior part non articulai*, and bounded behind by the vaginal & au- ditory processes and the middle root of the zygoma. BEHIND & on the INNER SIDE of the DIAGONAL LINE Are the : Jugular fossa for intei'nal jugular vein. This fossa assists in forming the Jugular foramen or Foramen Lacerum posteritcs, of which the Anterior or inner part, smaller and separated from the remainder by a bony I'idge, transmits anteriorly the inferior petrosal sinus, and posteriorly, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric & spinal accessory nerves, while the Posterior part, the largei, transmits the internal jugular vein; Jugular process for rectus capitis lateralis & lateral occipito-atloid ligament. * This process has in front of it & to its inner side the Anterior condyloid foramen for hypoglossal nerve; behind it «& to its inner ai is the . Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by posterior condyloid foramen for a small vein to lateral &IUU8. Openings for Jacobson's &* Arnold's nerves, and opening of Aqueductus Cochka^28 INNER SURFACE of BASE of SKULL, Presents three fossss. ANTERIOR FOSSA -TheWgheat. Formed by orbital plates of frontal, cribriform plate of ethmoid, lesser wings and front part of upper surface of body of sphenoid. Preoents the snttires between the foregoing bones, and in median line and from above downwards and then backwards • Front part of groove for superior longitudinal sinus. Frontal crest. Foramen ccecum. Crista galli, A slightly elevated ridge. On the side of the two latter is the Olfactory groove deep in front, where it is Ce^'mefl by cribriform plate of ethmoid, and presents Three rows of foramina for olfactory nerves. Slit-like opening for nasal nerve, Anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina for nasal nerve and ante- rior & posterior ethmoidal arteries. MIDDLE FOSSA — vide next Tablet. POSTERIOR FOSSA - The deepest. Formed by occipital, petrous & mastoid portions of temporal and posterior inferior angle of parietal, and bounded in front by dorsum sellas & superior border of petrous bones, and behind, by grooves for lateral sinuses. Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones, and in the centre: Foramen magnum for cord and its membranes, spinal accessory nerves & vertebral arteries. In Front of the Foramen Magnum is the Basilar groove^ which supports medulla oblongata & pons, and on the sides of which are the petro-oticijf>ital sutures, which are grooved in front for inferior petrosal sinuses and expanded behind into jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius. Behind the Foramen Magnum is the Internal occipital crest, which separates the two Inferior occipital fossa, and ends in the Internal occipital protuberance, which is situated at point of junction of the Grooves for lateral sinuses, and to which corresponds the torcular Herophili. On the Sides of Foramen Magnum are the Anterior condyloid foramina for hypoglossal nerves, and, occasionally, the Posterior condyloid foramina for a small vein to lateral sinus j Jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius, of which the Anterior or inner part, smaller and separated from the remainder by a bony ridge, transmits anteriorly the inferior petrosal sinus, and posteriorly the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric & spinal accessory nerves, while the Posterior part, larger, transmits the internal jugular vein 5 Postettor surface of petrous portion of temporal bone presenting Internal auditory meatus for facial nerve and auditory artery & n., Slit-like aperture of Aqueductus Vestibuli for small artery & vein and a process of dura mater29 MIDDLE FOSSA of BASE of SKULL. Is narrow in median line & expanded laterally. Is formed by body & greater wings of sphenoid, squamous portion and anterior Burface of petrous portion of temporal and anterior inferior angle of parietal, and is bounded by lesser wings of sphenoid & anterior margin of optic groove, in front, and by superior border of petrous bones behind. Presents the sutures between foregoing bones and In Median Line from before backwards: optic groove leading on either side to Optic foramen for optic nerve & ophthalmic artery, Olivary process^ Sella turcica on each side of which is the Cavernous groove^ Dorsum sellce presenting at its upper angles the Posterior clinoidprocesses. Laterally: Cerebral eminences & depressions, and grooves for middle meningeal artery; and more internally, and from before backwards: Sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius for 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves, and ophthalmic nerve & vein. Foramen rotundum for superior maxillary nerve, Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small superficial petrosal nerves and small meningeal artery, (on inner side of which latter foramen is sometimes seen Foramen Vesalii for a small vein), Foramen spinosum for middle meningeal artery, Foramen lacerum medium- closed with cartilage. On Anterior Surface of Petrous Bone : Internal orifice of carotid canal. Depression for Casserian ganglion, Grooves to Hiatus Fallopii for large superficial petrosal nerve and to a smaller and more external opening for small superficial petrosal nerve; frequently Two other small foramina for small petrosal branch of glosso-pharyngeal and branch of glosso-pharyngeal to large superficial petrosal nerve, Eminence corresponding to superior semi-circular canal, on outer sids ol which is a Depression corresponding to cavity of tympanum.30 LATEBAL REGION of the SKULL. Presents from behind forwards the: Mastoid process ; Ext. auditory meatus ; Zygo77iatic arch & ramus of the Jaw, which two latter arch over the temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossae. TEMPORAL FOSSA Is formed by the temporal, frontal, & malar bones, the great wing of the sphenoid, & the anterior inferior angle of the parietal, and is deeply excavated below & in front. Is bounded above by the temporal ridge, and opens widely below into the zygomatic fossa, the boundary line between the two being the zygomatic arch & the pterygoid ridge. ZYGOMATIC FOSSA Is an irregular and imperfectly enclosed space, the incomplete walls of which are formed on the anterior, inner, upper & outer aspects respectively by th< Tuberosity of the sup. maxillary bone, , Ext. pterygoid plate, Under surface of great wing oj sphenoid as far as pterygoid ridge, and squa7nous portion ofteniporal bone. Zygomatic arch & ramus of lower jaw. Communicates with temporal fossa beneath the zygoma, and with the orbit & spheno- maxillary fossae through the spheno-maxillary & pterygo-maxillary fissures. Spheno-Maxillary Fissure - is bounded by superior maxillary, great wing of sphenoid, malar & palate bones, aud joins internally at right angles with pterygo- maxillary fissure. Opens up communications between the orbit and the temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossae. Transmits infraorbital artery, superior maxillary nerve & ascending or orbital branches of Meckel's ganglion. PterygO-Maxillary Fissure - Is comprised between pterygoid process & tuberosity of superior maxillary bone. Joins superiorly at right angles with spheno-maxillary fissure. Transmits internal maxillary artery from zygomatic to spheno-maxillary fossa. SPHENO-MAXILLARY FOSSA — is the narrow & vertically elongated space comprised between the pterygoid process & the maxillary tuberosity, and bounded above & internally by the body of the sphenoid & the vertical plate of the palate bone. Its upper part is the point of meeting of the sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary & pterygo- maxillary fissures. It communicates with the cranium, oi-bit, zygomatic & nasal fossae by the foramen rotun- dum & spheno- & pterygo-maxillary fissures & the spheno-palatine foramen, aud has, opening into it, the vidian, pterygopalatine, posterior palatine & accessory posterior palatine canals.31 THE ORBIT, Qtiadrilateral pyramidal fossa looking forwards & outwards and formed by seven boneSj the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid ( which enter into formation of both orbits), pupe- rior maxillary, malar, lachrymal & palate. Communicates with cranium, and with nasal, temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossae through optic foramen, nasal duct & spheno'-maxillary fissure. Presents: ROOF — Formed by orbital plate of frontal & lesser wing of sphenoid. Is concave, and pre- sents the suture between the foregoing bones, and in front the Lachrymal fossa fori achrymal gland, and a Depression (fovea trochlearis ) for pulley of superior oblique. FLOOR — Formed by upper or orbital surface of superior maxillary and orbital processes of malar & palate bones. Presents the sutures between foregoing bones, the Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which becomes converted in front into Infra-orbital canal; and also at its anterior & inner part a Depression for inferior oblique muscle. INNER WALL — Formed from before backwards by nasal process of superior maxillary, lachrymal, os planum of ethmoid, body of sphenoid. Is antero-posterior in direction and parallel to its fellow, and presents the sutures between foregoing bones and the Lachrymal groove for lachrymal sac. Crest of lachrymal bone for tensor tarsi muscle. OUTER WALL — Formed in front by orbital process of malar bone, and behind by ante- rior or orbital surface of great wing of sphenoid. I s very oblique forwards & outwards being nearly at right angles with its fellow, and presents the suture between foregoing bones, and the Orifices of one or two malar canals, Sinall spine for lower head of external rectus. ANGLES: SUP. EXTERNAL - Presents : Articulation of frontal with malar bone & orbital plate of sphenoid, Sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius for 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves and ophthalmic nerve & vein. SUP. INTEENAL - Presents Suttire connecting frontal with lachrymal & os planum, in which suture are the Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal nerve & anterior ethmoidal vessels, and the Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. INF. EXTERNAL - Presents Spheno-maxillary fissure for infra-orbital vessels & nerve and ascending branches of Meckel's ganglion. INF. INTERNAL - Presents Articulation of superior maxillary & palate bones with lachrymal & os planum. CIRCUMFERENCE OR BASE — Quadrilateral, looks forwards & outwards. Is bounded by supra-orbital arch and external & internal angular processes of frontal, anterior border of orbital surface & nasal process of superiou maxillary, and anterior border of malar bone. Presents Supra-orbital notch or foramen for supra-orbital vessels & nerve j and assists in forming Lachrymal groove for lachrymal sac. APEX — Corresponds to optic foramen for optic nerve & ophthalmic artery.32 THE NASAL FOSS^. Two narrow irregular cavities comprised between the orbits & superior maxillary bones,. and between the roof of the mouth & the front part of the base of the skull. Formed by ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, superior maxillary, nasal, palate, inferior turbin- ated & vomer (all the bones of the face except malar & inferior maxillary). Communicate with orbit (nasal duct), mouth, (anterior palatine canal), cranium (olfactory foramina), spheno-maxillary fossa (spheno-palatine foramen), and with the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, & maxillary sinuses. - Present: ROOF — Narrow, and is from before backwards : Oblique upwards & backwards and formed by nasal bone & nasal spine of frontal. Horizontal and formed by cribriform plate of ethmoid, Oblique downwards & backwards and formed by body of sphenoid. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from before backwards : Groove on nasal bone for outer branch of nasal nerve j Half crest for perpendicular plate of ethmoid; Olfactory foramina & nasal slit for olfactory and nasal nerves ; Openings of sphenoidal sinuses partly closed by sphenoidal turbinated bones $ . Articulation of alee of vomer with body of sphenoid. FLOOR — Concave from side to side, and formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & palate bones. - Presents the suture between foregoing bones & the Upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; Half crest for vomer, which terminates in front & behind in the Anterior & posterior ncuil spines. INNSR WALL — Formed principally by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid above & in front, and by the vomer below & behind, and secondai'ily by nasal spine of the frontal, rostrum of sphenoid, crests of superior maxil- lary, nasal & palate bones. Has an angular deficiency in front which is filled up by the cartilage of the septum. - Is frequently inclined to one or other side; and presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and Vascular & nervous furrows & Naso'palatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. OUTER WALL - Formed by: La chrymal hone & nasalprocess of superior maxillary ; Inner surface of ethmoid, superior maxillary & inferior turbinated bones; Vertical plate of palate bone & inner plate of pterygoid process. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from above downwards: Superior turbinated process ef ethmoid ; Superior meatus^ into which open the sphenoidal «& posterior ethmoidal sinuses and the spheno-palatine foramen. - Both are short and are situated at the posterior and upper part of the nares; Middle turbinated process of ethmoid; Middle meatus^ larger than foregoing, into which open the Antrum of High more and through the infundibulum, the anterior ethmoidal cells & frontal sinuses; Inferior turbinated bone ; inferior meatus^ the largest, presents in front the opening of the nasal duo*.UPPER LIMB. I. AXILLA; FRONT OF ARM. 534 THE MAMMA. Rudimentary in the male, small in the female before puberty; increases in s'ze during pregnancy & after delivery. - Presents; POSTERIOR SURFACE, or BASE — Somewhat concave; nearly circular, but slightly elonj^ated from below upwards & outwards. Rests upon pectoralis major & fascia covering it, and extends from 3rd rib to the 6th or 7th, and from side of sternum to axilla. ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents, a little below its middle, the nipple surrounded by the areola. Nipple - Cylindrical or conical; presents at its apex the openings of the lactiferous ducts. Its surface is of a pink or brownish hue, wrinkled, provided with papillae, and, near its base, with some sebaceous glands. It is susceptible of a sort of erection due mainly to the contraction of its muscular fibres. Areolai - Rosy in the virgin; larger & darker in colour after the second month of pregnancy & during lactation (when its sebaceous glands enlarge consider- ably), and also somewhat so during the remainder of life. CUTANEOUS NERVES. Superficial Descending - Several large branches from 3rd & 4th. Descend between sterno-mastoid & trapezius, and divide into branches: Sternal - Cross origin of sterno-mastoid to integument of front of chest as far as middle line. Claviculak - Cross clavicle (sometimes one of them perforates the bone) to integument over pectoralis major & deltoid, communicating with cuta- neous branches of the superior intercostal nerves. Acromial - Over acromion & clavicular origin of trapezius to integumentf of outer & back part of shoulder. Lateral Cutaneous-Pierce intercostals & serratus magnus midway between vertebrae & sternum, and divide into : - Antej'ior Offset - Forwards to integument of side of chest & mamma, and to upper digitations of external oblique., ; Fosterior Offset - Backwards to integument over latissimus dorsi & scapula. The posterior oflfset of the lateral cutaneous branch of the 2nd intercostal nerve, is called the intercosto-hume7'al nerve. It crosses the axilla, joins with lesser internal cutaneous nerve or nerve of Wrisberg & with internal cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral, and pierces deep fascia to integument of upper inner & back part of arm ; its size varies inversely with that of the nerve of Wrisberg. There is frequently a second intercosto-humeral nerve derived from the 3rd intercostal. Anterior Cutaneous-The termination of intercostal trunk. Pierce internal inter. costals & pectoralis major by side of sternum, and turn outwards to integu- ment of mamma & front of chest. The second joins with the clavicular branches of the superficial cervical plexus.35 MUSCLES of UPPER LIMB—1st TABLET. ANTERIOR THORACIC REGION. Pectoralis Major - Anterior surface of inner half of clavicle; corresponding half ol front of sternum ; cartilages of all the true ribs except 1st or 7th or both ; apon- eurosis of external oblique. Anterior or outer edge of bicipital groove of humerus. - S. by internal & external anterior thoracic nerves. Pectoralis Minor - Outer surface & upper border of the 3rd 4th & 5th ribs near their extremities. Inner border of coracoid process of scapula. - S. by internal anterior thoracic nerve. Subclavius - Cartilage of first rib in front of rhomboid ligament. Groove on under surface of middle third of clavicle. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. LATERAL THORACIC REGION. Serratus Magnus - By nine digitations from outer surface & upper border of eight upper ribs (the 2nd rib having two digitations). Whole length of anterior lip of posterior border of scapula, the two upper digitations being inserted into triangular smooth surface on anterior aspect of superior angle, the three middle digitations into posterior border between superior & inferior angles, and the four lower digitations into anterior aspect of inferior angle. - S. by posterior or long thoracic nerve or external respiratory nerv& of Sir 0. Bell. Latissimus Dorsi - Spinous processes of the 6 or 7 lower dorsal vertebrae; by the posterior layer of lumbar aponeurosis, from the lumbar & sacral spines and the back part of outer lip of crest of ilium; from outer lip of crest of ilium for an inch or more in front of lumbar aponeurosis; from the last three or four ribs interdigitating with external oblique; sometimes by a few fibres from inforior angle of scapula. Bottom of bicipital groove of humerus a little higher up than teres major by a broad flat tendon twisted upon itself. -S. by long subscapular nerve.AXILLARY ARTERY From outer border of first rib to lower bordei of tendons of teres major & latissimua dorsi, being either straight or slightly curved upwards or downwards according to position of limb, and lying deeply at its origin & superficially at its termination. May be divided into three parts: First Part - Above pectoralis minor; rests upon thoracic wall. ' Second Part - Behind pectoralis minor; passes obliquely from thorax to arm. Third Part - Below pectoralis minor j lies on inner side of neck of humerus. RELATIONS: FIRST PART: In peont -■ Pectoralis major, oosto-coracoid membrane; cephalic & aero. mio-thoracic veins j external anterior thoracic nerve. Behind & on Inner Side - First intercostal space, first digitation of ser- ratus magnus, posterior thoracic nerve. On Inner Side & in Front - Axillary vein. On Outer Side - Brachial plexus. SECOND PART: In Front - Pectoralos'major & minor. Behind - Upper part of subscapularis & posterior cord of brachial plexus. On Inner Side - Axillary vein & inner cord. On Outer Side - Coraco-brachiaHs & outer cord. THIRD PART: In Front - Pectoralis major (except at lowest part), junction of the two heads of median nerve. Behind - Lower part of subscapularis, tendons of teres major & latissimua dorsi, musculo-spiral & circumflex nerves. On Inner Side - Axillary vein, inner head of median, ulnar, internal cutaneous & lesser internal cutaneous nerves. On Outer Side -> Pofjaco-brachialia^ outer head of median nerve, musculo. cutaneous nerve.37 BRANGHES of the AXILLARY ARTERY Vary considerably in mode of origin, size & number. Are still usaally described after Haller as being given oflE" as follows, from FIRST PART: Sup. Thoracic — Small. In-wards along npper border of pectoralis minor, and then between latter muscle & pectoralis major j anastomoses with intercostales & internal mammary, Acroniio-thoracic — Short, thick, from fore part of' artery. Forwards to npper border of pectoralis minor, and divides into branches; AcKOMiAL - Join with suprascapular & with both circumflex. Thobacic - Two or three. To pectorales & serratus magnus, and join with intercostales & internal mammary. Humeral - One, rather large. Downwards with cephalic vein between peo« toralis major & deltoid. SECOND PART: Long Thoracic or Ext. Mammary Large branch. Along lower border of pectoralis minor to mamma, pectorales & serratus, and to axillary glands & subscapularis. Joins with the other thoracic & with subscapular. Alar Thoracic — Small & often wanting. To axillary glands & cellular tissue. THIRD PART: Subscapular — The largesfc| branch. Along [lower border of subscapularis to lower angle of scapula, where joins with posterior scapular. Gives off twigs to surrounding muscles, and DoBSALis ScAPULiE - Arises an inch & a half from origin of subscapular. Eound outer border of scapula between teres major, teres minor^ & long head of triceps, and then between teres minor & the bone. Gives off I Branches to subscapular fossa between subscapularis & bone j join with posterior- & suprascapular. Descending br. between teres major & minor. Branches to infraspinous fossa; join with posterior- & suprascapular. Ant. Circumflex — The smaller. Outwards beneath coraco-brachialis, short head of biceps & deltoid, giving off twig to shoulder joint; joins with following & with acromial branch of acromio-thof acic. Post. Circumflex ~ The larger. Through quadrangular space between teres major, teres minor, long head of triceps & humerus, and round neck of humerus beneath deltoid. Gives twigs to shoulder joint, and joins with preceding ^ with acromial brancla of acromio-thoracio.88 BBACHIAL PLEXUS. Formed as follows by anterior divisions of 5th, 6th, 7th, & 8th cervical and 1st dorsal ns.: Fi/ik <5r» Sixik Cervical unite between anterior & middle scaleui, and form the OUTER PRIMARY CORD. Eighth First Dorsal unite behind scalenus anticus, and form the inner Seventh forms alone the middle primary cord. [primary cord. All three primary cords divide into anterior ^ posterior divisions. Anterior divisions of outer middle primary cords form the outer cord. Anterior division of inner primary cord forms the inner cord. Posterior divisions of all three primary cords form the posterior cord. Broad between anterior & middle scaleni, where anterior divisions of the nerves lie above 2nd part of subclavian artery; contracted opposite clavicle, where inner & outer cords lie at fore part of plexus on outer side of 3rd part of subclavian artery & of 1st part of axillary; again expanded in axilla, where the three cords lie on inner, outer & posterior aspects of 2nd part of axillary, and where they break up into the large nerves of upper limb. Communicates with the cervical plexus througb loop between 4th & 5th nerves & through branch from 5th nerve to phrenic, and with middle & inferior ganglia of sympathetic. BRANCHES — Are ABOVE THE CLAVICLE: Post, or Long Thoracic, or Ext. Respiratory of Sir C. Bell - From 5th. & 6th nerves, the two roots uniting in substance of sca- lenus medius. Deeply along side of chest behind axillary vessels & cords of brachial plexus as far as lowest digitation of serratus magnus. Suprascapular - From back of trunk formed by union of 5th & 6th, Backwards & outwards beneath trapezius & through suprascapular foramen to supraspinous fossa, where lies between supraspina- tus & the bone. Bound spine of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Supplies supra- & infra- spinati (two twigs to each), shoulder-joint & scapula. I/[USCUlar - To rhomboidel & frequently to levator anguli scapulae (from 5th nerve), subclavius (from 5th & 6th, anastomoses frequently with phrenic), scaleni & longus colli (variably from 6th 7th. & 8th.) Coniinijlllicatillg - From 5th cervical to phrenic on antei-ior scalenus. BELOW THE CLAVICLE — The branches are given off from the three cords as follows, from : Outer Cord - External anterior thoracic, outer head of median, mus- culo-cutaneous or external cutaneous. Inner Cord - Internal anterior thoracic, inner head of median, ulnar, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous or n. of Wrisberg. Posterior Cord - The three subscapular nerves, musculo-spiral & circumflex Anterior Thoracic Nerves - Two, connected together by a loop on innei side of axillary artery, External or Superficial - The largest. Crosses both axillary artery & vein to under surface of pectoralis major. Internal or Deep - The smallest. Between artery & vein, and gives twigs to under surface of both pectorales. Subscapular Nerves - Three: Upper - The smallest; to upper part of subscapularis. Lower - To lower border of subscapularis & to teres major; the latter muscle having sometimes a separate nerve LoNO - The largest. Along lower border of eubscapularis to latissimua dorsi.39 MUSCLES of UPPER LIMB~2nd TABLET. ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. Biceps: Short Head - Tip of coracoid process of scapula in common with coraco-brachialia. Long Head - Top of glenoid cavity of scapula & glenoid ligament. Back part of bicipital tuberosity of the radius. - S. by musculo-cutaneoua nerve. CoraCO-brachialis - Tip of coracoid process of scapula in common with short head of biceps. Rough impression a little above middle of inuer surface of shaft o humerus. - S. by musculo-cutaneous nerve. Brachialis Anticus - Lower half of inner & outer surfaces of shaft of humerus; front of internal & external intermuscular septa. Under surface of coronoid process of ulna. - S. by musculo-cutaneous & musculo-spiral nerves.40 BRACHIAL ARTERY Oommencea at lower border of tendons of teres major & latissimns dorsi. Down inner & anterior aspects of arm in groove along inner border of coraco-brachialis & biceps, lying at first on inner side, and then in front of, humerus,- its more precise direction being marked by a line drawn from outer side of axilla to midway between condyles of humerus Divides into radial & ulnar half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposite neck of radius. RELATIONS: ALONG THE ARM: In front - Skin and fascia, inner border of coraco-brachialis & biceps j median nerve. Behind - Long and inner heads of triceps, superior profunda artery & musculo- spiral nerve; coraco-brachialis, brabhialis anticus. On Inner Side - Skin & fascia, internal cutaneous nerve, basilic vein; ulnar nerve in upper part, median nerve in lower part. On Outer Side - Coraco-brachialis & biceps, humerus in upper part. AT BEND OF ELBOW: In front - Skin, superficial fascia, median basilic vein, branches of anterior division of internal cutaneous nerve; bicipital or semilunar fascia. Behind - Brachialis anticus & elbow joint. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, median nerve. On Outer Side - Tendon of biceps, supinator longus, musculo-cutaneous & mus- oulo-spiral nerves. BRANCHES: Muscular — irregular, to coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus. Nutritious', — From near middle of artery. Enters nutrient canal near insertion of coraco-brachialis, and descends towards lower extremity of the bone. Sup. Profunda — From upper part of artery. With musculo-spiral nerve in groove of same name between inner & outer heads of triceps, and then between supinator longus & brachialis anticus, where joins with radial recurrent. Gives off muscular branches, and an articular branch to back of elbow joint, which joins with interosseous & posterior ulnar recurrent, and with inferior profunda or anastomotica magna. Inf. Profunda — Small, from near middle of artery. With ulnar nerve through internal intermuscular septum, and then between inner condyle & olecranon; anastomoses with posterior ulnar recurrent & anastomotica magna. Anastomotica Magna — From lower part. Through internal intermuscular septum, and round back of humerus forming an arch above olecranon fossa with articular branch of superior profunda. Joins with anterior & posterior ulnar recurrent & with inferior profunda.UPPER LIMB. II. FRONT OF FOREARM. PALM OF HAND.42 SUPERFICIAL VEINS. Kadial - Commences at outer side of arch on dorsum of hand. Receives branches from back of thumb & index finger, ascends along front of outer side of fore-arm, communicating with median, and joins at bend of elbow with median cephalic to form the cephalic. Anterior Ulnar - Commences on anterior aspect of wrist & inner side of palm of hand, ascends along front of inner side of fore-arm communicating with posterior ulnar & median, and, at bend of elbow, joins with posterior ulnar, & then with median basilic, to form the basilic. Posterior Ulnar - Commences at inner side of arch on dorsum of hand, receiving vena salvatella from little finger, ascends along back of inner side of forearm, and, at bend of elbow, joins with anterior ulnar, & then with median basilic, to form the basilic. Median - Commences in superficial structures of palm of hand, ascends along middle of front of foi'e-arm communicating with radial & anterior ulnar, and, after re- ceiving a large branch from venae comites of brachial, divides at bend of elbow into median cephalic & median basilic. Median Cephalic - Usually the smaller. Ascends in groove between biceps & sup- inator longus, lying mainly in front of branches of anterior division of external cutaneous nerve, and joins with radial vein to form the cephalic. Median Basilic - Usually the larger. Ascends in groove between biceps & pronator radii teres, being more or less surrounded by branches of anterior division of internal cutaneous nerve, and lying in front of brachial artery, from which it is separated by bicipital or semilunar fascia. Cephalic - Somewhat smaller than basilic. Ascends in groove along outer border of biceps and then in interspace between pectoralis major & deltoid, in which latter situation it is accompanied by humeral or descending branch of acromio-thoracic artery, and ends in axillary vein between coracoid process & clavicle, its opening being guarded by a pair of valves. It communicates sometimes with external jugular or subclavian by a small branch which ascends in front of clavicle. Sasilic ~ Somewhat larger than cephalic. Ascends in groove along inner border of biceps, pierces deep fascia with internal cutaneous nerve a little below middle of arm, and ends in one of the brachial veins or in the axillary."" N.—Numerous varieties are observed <in the disposition of the veins of the bend of the elbow: the median vein with both its terminal branches may be en- tirely wanting, or, the vein itself being wanting, its two terminal branches may be supplied either by the radial or the anterior ulnar.43 MUSCLES of FRONT of FOREARM. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Pronator Radii Teres. Large or Superficial Head - Inner condyle & innei' »tn*aer of humerus im- mediately above it, deep fascia of forearm, intermuscular septum between it & flexor carpi radialis. Small OR Deep Head - Eidge on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna below flexor sublimis digitorum. Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft of radius. - S. by median nerve. Flexor Carpi Radialis - Inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; in. termuscular septa on either side. Front of base of 2nd metacarpal bone, & slightly into that of 3rd. - S. by median nerve. Palmaris LongUS - inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; inter- muscular septa on either side. Anterior annular ligament oC carpus and palmar fascia. - S. by median nerve. Flexor C arpi Ulnaris. Anterior or Inner Head - Inner concry^ oy common tendon ; deep fascia j intermuscular septum between it & palmaris longus. Posterior or Outer Head - Inner border of olecranon, and by an aponeurosis which is common to it & to the flexor profundus, from upper two-thirds of posterior border of shaft of ulna. Pisiform bone and slightly into annular ligament & base of 5t metacarpal bone. - S. by ulnar nerve. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon, and internal lateral liga- ment of elbow-joint. Middle Head - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna above pronator radii teres. Outer Head - Oblique line on front of radius. Sides of second phalanges. - S. by median nerve. DEEP LAYER : Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner side of coronoid process of ulna, upper two-thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an apon- eurosis which is common to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, from upper two- thirds of posterior border of shaft of ulna; inner half of interosseous membrane. Bases of third phalanges. - S. partly by ulnar nerve, partly by an- terior interosseous branch of median nerve. ^ Flexor Longus Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft of radius; outer half of interosseous membrane; occasionally by a small slip from inner side of coronoid process. Base of last phalanx of thumb. - S. by anterior interosseous brauoh of median nerve. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner korder ;f ulna; aponeurosis which covers inner third of the muscle. i^wer fourth of anterior surface & outer border of radius. - S. by anterior interosseous branch of median nerve MUSCLES of OUTER SIDE of FOREARM. Supinator Longus - Upper two-thirds of external condyloid ridge of humerus, ex- ternal intermuscular septum. Outer side of base of styloid process of radius. - S. by musculo-spiral n. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior - Lower third of external condyloid ridge of humerus, external intermuscular septum. Back of base of second metacarpal bone. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior - External condyle of humerus by a tendon common to it & to superficial muscles of back of forearm; external lateral liga- ment of elbow-joint; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Back of base of third metacarpal bone. •- S. by posterior interosseous n.44 BADIAL ARTERY The smaller branch of bifarcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow or opposlio ■ neck of radina. Down front of outer side of forearm to a little to inner side of styloid process of radius. Round outer side of carpus beneath extensor tendons of thumb. Through upper part of first interosseous space between the two heads of abductor indicis. Over bases of metacarpal bones & interossei, and beneath flexor tendons, lumbrioales & nerves to base of 5th metacarpal bone, where inosculates with communicating branch of ulnar, forming deep palmar arch. Lies a finger's breadth above level of superficial palmar arch. RELATIONS in FOREARM: In Feont - Skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, supinator longua. Behind - Tendon of biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimift digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratua, lower end of radius. On Outer Side - Supinator longus, radial nerve in middle third. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis. BRANCHES: IN FOREARM: Hadiail recurrent — From upper part. Between brachialis anticus A supinator lon« gus, and anastomoses with interosseous recurrent & suj^erior profunda. Muscular — Numerous, to muscles on either side. Ant. carpal — From lower part. Joins with anterior carpal branch of ulnar beneath deep flexor tendons; gives twigs to articulations of carpus. Superficialis V0I33 — From termination of artery in forearm. Small, and ends in mascles of thumb j or of more considerable size, and joins with & com- pletes superficial palmar arch. ON BACK OF WRIST : Post, carpal — Over back of carpus beneath extensor tendons. Joins with posterior carpal branch of ulnar to form posterior carpal arch, which anastomoses with termination of anterior interosseous artery of forearm, and gives off: Dorsal Interosseous Arteries op Third & Fourth Spaces - Anastomose at upper part of interosseous spaces with perforating branches of deep palmar arch. - Are usually exhausted in sheaths of tendons, interossei & integument over back of first phalanges, but are sometimes larger than usual, and are then prolonged upon dorsum of fingers in the shape of dorsal digital branches similar to those of thumb & outer side ot index, and of toes. Metacarpal, or Dorsal Interosseous Art. of Second Space — Arises be. neath extensor tendons of thumb, sometimes in common with posterior car- pal, and is similar to, but larger than, the foregoing interosseous arteries. Correspond together to a first dorsal interosseous artery, Dorsales pollicis r The former supplies dorsal digital branches to both sides of back x\ -IS z^jz: 1 of thumb, the latter forms the dorsal digital branch of outer side Dorsalis mdicis 3 ofbao]jofin^ex. IN PALM or HAND "^ Correspond together to a first palmar interosseone artery, j/rmceps pollicis f The former supplies palmar digital branches to both sides of . J. . { front of thumb, the latter forms the palmar digital branch of KadiallS mdlClS 3 outer side of front of index. Perforating — Three. Through upper part of three inner interosseous spaces, and anastomose with corresponding dorsal interosseous arteries. Deep palmar interosseous — Usually three or four, but very variable in size & number. Descend in front of interosseous spaces, join with superficial pal. mar interosseous branches from superficial palmar arch, and then bifurcate to form palmar digital branches to 3^ fingers on inner side of hand45 ULNAR ARTERY The larger branch of bifurcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposite neck of radius. Deeply to near middle of inner border of forearm, lying upon brachialis anticus & flexor profundus and beneath median nerve and all the superficial muscles except flexor carpi ulnaris, and being at a distance from ulnar nerve. Beneath skin and fascia only along front of inner border of forearm, lying, with ulnar nerve on its inner side, between flexor carpi ulnaris & flexor sublimis digitorum. Over anterior annular ligament on outer side of pisiform bone & slightly in front of nerve. Crosses palm of hand beneath skin & fascia and in front of flexor tendons & divisions of median & ulnar nerves, forming superficial palmar arch. This arch lies on a level with lower border of abducted thumb, a finger's breadth below deep palmar arch, and usually joins with superficialis volse or radialis indicia, or sometimes with priuceps pollicis. BRANCHES: Ant. ulnar recurrent — Small. Between pronator radii teres & brachialis anticus, and anastomoses with inferior profunda & anastomotica magna. Post, ulnar recurrent ■— Larger. Beneath flexor sublimis, and then between olecranon & inner condyle beneath flexor carpi ulnaris, and anastomoses with interosseous recurrent, and with inferior profunda & anastomotica magna. Interosseous — Thick, an inch in length, to upper border of interosseous membrane, where divides into: Ant. Interosseous — Down front of interrosseous membrane with corres- ponding branch of median nerve and between flexors longus pollicis & profundus digitorum. Behind pronator quadratus, and through lower part of interosseous membrane to back of carpus, where joins with posterior interosseous & posterior carpal arch. - Gives off a long slender twig to median nerve, and their nutrient arteries to radius & ulna. Post. Interosseous — Between interosseous membrane & oblique or round ligament, and then between superflcial & deep muscles of back of forearm to back of carpus, where anastomoses with termination of anterior interosseous" & with posterior carpal arch; gives off Interosseous Recurrent — Beneath anconeus & supinator brevis to interval between olecranon & external condyle, and anasto- moses with superior profunda & posterior ulnar recurrent. Ant. Carpal Joins with anterior carpal branch of radial beneath deep flexor tendons; gives twigs to articulations of carpus. Post, carpal — Beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and over back of carpus beneath extensor tendons, joining with posterior carpal branch of radial, and forming posterior carpal arch (Vide Eadial artery). Sends a small branch along metacarpal bone of little finger. Communicating — Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and joins with termination of radial to complete deep palmar arch. Superficial palmar interosseous ( Digital ) — Usually four, but rather vari- able in size & number. Descend with terminal branches of median & ulnar nerves, first in front of, and then between, the flexor tendons ( and on inner side of the innermost), and join with deep palmar interosseous branches from deep palmar arch. The trunks thus formed divide at clefts between fingers to form digital branches to 3^ fingors on inner side of baud.46 MEDIAN & MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVES. MEDIAN NERVE. From mner & outer cords of brachial plexus by two roots which surround 3rd part of axillary artery. - Lies at first on outer side (more or less so, but never quite in front) of 3rd part of axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Crosses brachial artery usually in front, and lies on its inner side at bend of elbow. Between the two heads of pronator radii teres, and down middle of front of forearm, lying deeply at first between fiexor sublimis & flexor profundus digitorum, and then super- ficially between tendon of flexor carpi radialis & outermost tendons of flexor sublimis.* Beneath anterior annular ligament to palm of hand, where lies in front of flexor tendons, and becomes enlarged and flattened, and divides into two TERMINAL BRANCHES: External - Supplies abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis poUicis, and gives palmar digital branches to thumb & outer side of index finger. Internal - Supplies the two outer lumbricales, and gives palmar digital branches to contiguous sides of index, middle and ring fingers. - The digital nerves are superficial to the digital arteries. LATERAL BRANCHES: None in upper-arm. In fore-arm.' Muscular - Arise near elbow; to all the superficial muscles of front of fore-arm except flexor carpi ulnaris. Ant. Interosseous - With anterior interosseous artery between flexor longus polUcis & flexor profundus digitorum, supplying the former & the outer half of the latter, and ends in pronator quadratus. Palmar Cutaneous ^ From lower part. Pierces deep fascia a little above anterior annular ligament and supplies integument of palm of hand & ball of thumb, joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar, and with radial or anterior branch of external cutaneous. MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS or EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. From outer cord of brachial plexus in common with outer head of median. Through coraco-brachialis, and between biceps & brachialis anticus to a little above external condyle, where perforates deep fascia, and divides, behind median cephalic vein, into; Anterior Branch. - Along front of radial side of fore-arm as low as wrist, where lies in front of radial artery, and joins with radial nerve. Sends filaments over ball of thumb, and accompanies radial artery to back of carpus. Posterior Branch - Along back of radial side of fore-arm, joining with radial and with external cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral. Supplies coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus, and sends twigs to humerus & to elbow-joint. *Wlaen paimaris longus is present, the nerve lies between it & flexoi carpi raJialis.47 ULNAR, INT. CUTANEOUS, & LESSER INT. CUTAN- EOUS NERVES. ULNAR NERVE. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, internal cutane. ous & lesser internal cutaneous nerves. - Lies at first on inner side of 3rd part of axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Pierces internal intermuscular septum with inferior profunda, and descends in groove between olecranon & internal condyle. Enters fore-arm between the two heads of flexor carpi ulnaris. Descends on flexor profundus, being covered in upper part of fore-arm by flexor carpi ulnaris, lying superficially in lower part between tendon of latter muscle & inner- most tendons of flexor sublimis digitorum. - Ulnar artery lies on outer side of nerve, and is distant from it in upper part of fore-arm. Crosses anterior annular ligament a little behind artery & on outer side of pisiform bone, and divides into two TERMINAL BRANCHES: Superficial - To palmaris brevis, integument & 1J fingers on inner side of hand, joining with median. Deep - Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and beneath flexor tendons with deep palmar arch. Supplies muscles of little finger, interossei, the two inner lumbricales, adductor pollicis & inner head of flexor brevis. LATERAL BRANCHES: None in upper-arm. In fore-arm: Articular to Elbow Joint - Several, small, arise behind elbow. Muscular - To flexor carpi ulnaris & inner half of flexor profundus. Palmar Cutaneous--A-rises a little below middle of fore-arm. With ulnar artery to integument of front of wrist & palm of hand, joining with palmar cuta- neous branch of median & frequently with internal cutaneous. Dorsal Cutaneous - Large, arises a little above wrist. Winds inwards beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and supplies integument & li fingers on inner side of back of hand, joining with radialt Articular to the Wrist. INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & lesser internal cutaneous nerves. Along inner side of brachial artery in front of lesser internal cutaneous, giving off a cuta- neous filament to integument over biceps. Pierces deep fascia with basilic vein, and divides into: Anterior Branch - in front of, or sometimes behind, median basilic vein to in- tegument of front of inner side of fore-arm as low as wrist, frequently joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar. Posterior Branch - Over internal condyle to integument of back of inner side of fore-arm to near wrist, joining with lesser internal cutaneous & dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar. LESSER INTERNAL CUTANEOUS N. or N. of WRISBERG. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & internal cutaneous nerves. Along inner side of axillary vein & brachial artery & behind internal cutaneous nerve to integument of back of lower third of arm, joining with intercosto-humeral & posterior branch of internal cutaneous. Its size & communications vary considerably. Frequently intercosto-humeral nerve is large, and takes the place of nerve of Wrisberg, joining brachial plexus by a small filament only, or not at all.48 MUSCLES of PALM of HAND. MUSCLES of the THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of the THUMB. Abductor Pollicis or TrapeZO-phalangeal - Ridge on anterior surface of trape. zinm & anterior annular ligament of wrist. Outer side of base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by median nerve. Opponens Pollicis or Trapezo-metacarpal - Front of trapezium below the ndge, & annular ligament. Whole length of outer border of metacarpal bone of thumb. - S. by median n. Flexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezocarpo-phalangeal. Outer or Superficial Head - Lower part of trapezium & anterior annular ligament. Inner oe Deep Head - Trapezoides, os magnum, base of 2nd & 3rd metacarpal bones. Either side of base of first phalanx of thumb, a sesamoid bone being deve- loped in each tendon. - S. by median nerve, & deep branch of ulnar. Adductor Pollicis or Metacarpo-phalangeal - Lower two-thirds of anterior sur- face of 3rd metacarpal bone. Inner side of base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by deep branch of ulnar n. MS. of HYPO-THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of LITTLE FINGER. Palmaris Brevis - Annular ligament & inner edge of central palmar fascia. Skin over inner border of hand. - S. by superficial branch of ulnar nerve. Abductor Minimi Digiti, or Pisi-phalangeal - Pisiform bone, and slightly from tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris. Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch of ulnar nerve. Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, or Unci-phalangeal - Unciform process of unciform bone & annular ligament. Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch of ulnar nerve. Opponens or Adductor Minimi Digiti, or Unci-metacarpal* - Unoiforir process of unciform bone & annular ligament. Whole length of inner border of metacarpal bone of little finger. - S. by deep branch of ulnar nerve. *These names, expressive of the origin & insertion of the corres- ponding muscles, are due to Cruveilhier. MUSCLES of the CENTRAL PALMAR REGION. Lumbricales - First, and sometimes Second, from outer side of corresponding deep fiexor tendon. - Third and Fourth, from adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd and 3rd & 4th deep flexor tendons respectively. Outer side of expansion of corresponding extensor tendon on back of first phalanges. - S., the two outer by median nerve j the two inner by deep branch of ulnar nerve. Palmar Interossei - Three. - They arise from palmar half of one side of the meta- carpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the same side of the base of the first phalanx of the same finger & into the expansion of the extensor tendon which covers it. - They are situated respectively on the inner side of the 2nd metacarpal bone & index finger, and on the outer side of the 4th & 5th meta. carpal bones and corresponding ring & little fingers. They adduct these fingers towards an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger. - They are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Dorsal InteroSSei - Four - They arise by two heads from the adjacent sides of twd metacarpal bones, but more extensively from the side of that metacarpal bone, which corresponds to the finger into which the muscle is inserted. They are inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first phalanx of the cor- responding finger & into the expansion of the corresponding extensor tendon. - They are situated respectively on the outer side of the 2nd metacarpal bone & index finger, on both sides of the 3rd metacarpal bone & middle finger, on the inner side of the 4th metacarpal bone & ring finger. The 1st dorsal interosseous muscle is larger than the others, and is sometimes called the abductor indicis; the radial artery passes between its two heads. - They abduct the fingers from an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger, - The^ are supplie4 by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve,UPPER LIMB. III. PARTS ABOUT SHOULDER, BACK OF UPPER LIMB.50 MUSCLES of UPPER LIMB-5th Tablet. Deltoid - Upper surface & anterior border of onter half of clavicle} npper surface & outer border of acromion; whole length of lower lip of posterior border of spine of scapula. - Rough triangular prominence a little above middle of outer surface of shaft of humerus. - S. by circumflex nerve. SubSCapularis - inner two-thirds of subscapular fossa ; tendinous laminae attached to ridges of said fossa; aponeurosis which separates it from teres major. Into lesser tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down. - S. by the two upper subscapular nerves from posterior cord of brachial plexus. Supraspinatus - inner two-thirds of supraspinous fossa & fascia which covers it. Highest of the three facets on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by suprascapular nerve. Infraspinatus - inner two-thirds of infraspinoua fossa & ridges on its surface j fascia9 which separate it from the teres major & minor. Middle facet on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by suprascapular nerve. Teres Minor - Upper two-thirds of dorsal aspect of axillary border of scapula; intermuscular septa which separate it from infraspinatus & teres major. Lowest facet on greater tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down - S. by a branch of circumfiex nerve. Teres Major-Dorsal aspect of inferior angle of scapula; intermuscular septa which separate it from infraspinatus & teres minor. r Inner or posterior edge of bicipital groove of humerus. - S. by a branch from lower subscapular nerve. LatissiimiS Dorsi - Spinous processes of the 6 or 7 lower dorsal vertebrae; by the posterior layer of lumbar aponeurosis, from the lumbar & sacral spines and the^ back part of outer Hp of crest of ilium ; from outer lip of crest of ilium for an inch or more in front of lumbar aponeurosis; from the last three or four ribs interdigitating with external oblique; sometimes by a few fibres from inferior angle of scapula. Bottom of bicipital groove of humerus a little higher up than teres major by a broad flat tendon twisted upon itself. - S. by long subscapular nerve. Levator Anguli Scapulse - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 3, 4, or 5 upper cervical vertebrae between splenius & scalenus medius. Posterior border of scapula between spine & superior angle. - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Rhomboidens Minor - Ligamentum nuchae and spinous processes of 7th cervical & 1st dorsal vertebrae. Posterior border of scapula opposite triangular smooth surface at root of spine. - S. by one of the deep branches of cervical plexus and by one of the supra- clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Rhmoboideus Major - Spinous processes of the 4 or 5 upper dorsal vertebrae and supra- spinous ligament. Base of scapula between spine and inferior angle (Quain, Ellis), or rather ' into a tendinous arch attached to the triangular smooth surface at root of epine & to the inferior angle and connected to posterior border of scapula by a thin membrane (Gray). - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical Tilexus and by one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus.51 MUSCLES of UPPER LIMB—6th Tablet. MUSCLES of BACK of FOREARM. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Extensor Communis Digitorum - External condyle of humerus by the common tenaon; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side terosseous nerle^'''^ ^ phalanges of the four fingers. - S. by posterior in. Extensor Minimi Digiti - External condyle of humerus by the common tendon- deep lascia; intermuscular septa on either side. ' Joins corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tendon thus formed IS inserted into bases of 2ad & 3rd phalanges of little fin-er - S by posterior interosseous nerve. o • ^• Extensor Carpi Ulnaris - External condyle of humerus by the common tendon • middle third of posterior border of shaft of ulna; deep fascia; septum between It & foregoing muscle. Usually it simply covers, but sometimes it arises from' narrow portion of posterior surface of shaft of ulna internal to the vertical rido-e' Base of metacarpal bone of little finger. - S. by posterior interosseous°n.' Anconeus - Back of outer condyle of humerus; deep fascia. , ^^^^^ triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of Shalt of ulna. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. DEEP LAYER. Supinator Brevis - External condyle of humerus; external lateral ligament of ^tTJr triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind the depression. Inner, anterior and outer aspects of radius above bicipital tuberosity & oblique line as low down as insertion of pronator radii teres. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. j-i^ubuenui Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface of shaft of ulna below insertion of anconeus; posterior surface of interosseous membrane • middle third of posterior surface of shaft of radius. * Base of first metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of radius below fore, going muscle; interosseous membrane. Base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior sur- face of shaft ot ulna; posterior surface of interosseous membrane Base of terminal phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve Extensor Indicis - Posterior surface of shaft of ulna below fore-oin- mu^^olp. interosseous membrane. o^^^o muscie. Joins, corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tenr9nn thus formed is inserted into bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of ind^x finge' S by posterior interosseous nerve. ° " ^' POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. Triceps: - Long Head - Rough triangular depression below glenoid cavity of scapula, and slightly from capsule of shoulder-joint. Outer Head - Posterior surface of shaft of humerus above musculo-spiral groove; outer border of humerus; external intermuscular septum. Inner Head - Posterior surface of shaft of humerus below musculo-spiral groove; inner border of humerus; internal intermuscular septum. By a strong tendon into back part of upper surface of olecranon procea« of ulna. ~ S. by musculo-spiral nerve. SubanCOneUS - Posterior surface of humerus above olecranon fossa. Posterior ligament of elbow joint - S. by musculo-spiral nerm52 MUSCULO-SPIRAL & CIRCUMFLEX NERVES. MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE The largest branch of brachial plexus. Arises from posterior cord in common with circumflex, and lies at first behind 3rd part of axillary artery & upper part of brachial. Downwards & outwards in front of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi, and in spiral groove with superior profunda artery. Between brachialis anticus & supinator longus to front of external condyle, where it divides into radial & posterior interosseous nerves. Its branches are: iCtluSCUlail!' - To triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, ex- tensor carpi radialis longior. Cutaneous - Three, small, one internal, two external; to integument of inner & posterior, and of outer & anterior aspects of arm, and of outer aspect of fore-arm. RADIAL NERVE - The smaller. Down front of outer side of fore-arm beneath supinator longus, lying on outer side of radial artery, which artery is distant from it in upper third & close to it in middle third. Winds outwards & backwards beneath tendon of supinator longus about three inches above wrisfc, pierces deep fascia, and divides into branches : External - The smaller. To outer side & ball of thumb j joins with posterior branch of external cutaneous. Ikttebnal - The larger. To integument, & remainder df 3J fingers on outer side of hand j joins with external cutaneous & with dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar. - Adjoining sides of middle & ring fingers may be supplied by same nerve, which may be either the radial or the ulnar, POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE - The larger. Through substance of supinator brevis to back of fore-arm. Between superficial & deep muscles of posterior aspect of fore-arm, supplying them all except anconeus, supinator longus, & extensor carpi radialis longior. Beneath extensores seoundi internodii poUicis & communis digitorum to back of carpus, where it becomes ganglionic and supplies articulations of wrist. CIRCUMFLEX NERVE From posterior cord of brachial plexus in common with musoulo-spiral. Downwards & outwards behind axillary artery in front of subsoapalaris. Backwards, with posterior circumflex vessels, through quadrilateral space bounded by teres major, teres minor, long head of triceps, & humerus. Gives off a small twig to shoulder-joint, and divides into: Superior Branch. - The larger. Round neck of humerus as far as anter- ior border of deltoid; supplies deltoid, and gives ofl" cutaneous filaments which perforate the muscle to integument over lower part of shoulder. Inferior Rranch. - The smaller Supplies teres minor, back ,art of deltoid, & integument over back of shoulder; has frequently a gangliform enlargement on branch to teres miaoK;58 MUSCULAR ATTACHTS. of BS. of UPPER LIMB-lst T. The muscles attached to the CLAVICLE — Are six in number, and are attached as follows: - Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid -Anterior surface & upper border of inner third. Pedoralis Major - Anterior surface & anterior border of inner half. Deltoid - Upper surface & anterior border of outer half. Trapezius - Upper surface & posterior border of outer third, Subclavius - Groove on under surface of middle third. Sterno-Cleido-Hyoid- Sometimes, from back of inner extremity. SCAPULA — Seventeen in number, and are attached as follows: - Supraspinatus - Inner two-thirds of supraspinous fossa. Infraspinatus - Inner two-thirds of infraspinous fossa & ridges on its surface. Teres Major — Posterior aspect of inferior angle. Teres Minor - Upper two-thirds of posterior aspect of axillary border. Deltoid - Upper surface & outer border of acromion, whole length of lower lip of posterior border of spine. Trapezius - Upper surface and inner border of acromion, whole length of upper lip of posterior border of spine, Subscapularis - Inner two-thirds of subscapular fossa & ridges on its surface. Serratus Magnus - Whole length of anterior lip of posterior border. Rhomboideus Major - Posterior border between spine & inferior angle. Rhomboideus Minor - Posterior border opposite triangular smooth surface at root of spine. Legator Anguli Scapulce - Posterior border between spine & superior angle, Omo-Hvoid - Upper border on inner side of suprascapular notch. Long Head of Triceps - Rough triangular depression below glenoid cavity. Pedoralis Minor - Inner border of coracoid process. Coraco-Brachialis J m- ^ , ^ „. \ - Tip of coracoid process. Short Head of Biceps ^ ^ ^ Long Head of Biceps - Top of glenoid cavity. Latissimus Dorsi - Sometimes, from back of inferior angle. 854 MUSCULAR ATTACHTS. of BS. of UPPER LIMB-2nd T. The muscles attached to the HUMERUS — Are twenty.four in number, and are attached as follows: - Supraspinatus - Highest of the three facets on greater tuberosity. Infraspinatus - Middle facet on greater tuberosity. Teres Minor - Lowest facet on greater tuberosity, and by a few fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down. Sub scapular is -liB^%Qv tuberosity, and by a few fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down Teres Major - Inner or posterior edge of bicipital groove. Pectoralis Major - Anterior or outer edge of bicipital groove. Latissimus Dorsi - Bottom of bicipital groove. Deltoid - Rough triangular prominence a little above middle of outer surface of shaft. Coraco-Brachialis - Rough impression a little above middle of inner surface of shaft, Mrachialis Anticus - Lower half of inner & outer surfaces of shaft. Inner (Sr' Outer Heads of Triceps - Inner /^m^/- Posterior surface of shaft below musculo-spiral groove, inner bordert Oute^ head - Posterior surface of shaft above musculo-spiral groove, outer border. Supinator Longus - Upper two-thirds of external condyloid ridge. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior - Lower third of external condyloid ridge. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevier - External condyle. Extensor Communis Digitorum - „ Extensor Minimi Digiti - » Extensor Carpi Ulnaris — „ Anconeus - » Supinator Brevis - „ Pronator Radii Teres (Inner Head) - Inner condyle & internal condyloid ridge ita Flexor Carpi Radialis - Inner condyle. Palmaris longus - „ Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Anterior or Inner Head)- Inner condyle^ Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. ( Inner Head) - «55 MUSCULAR ATTAGHTS. of BS. of UPPER LIMB-3rd T. The muscles attached to the RADIUS — Are nine in number, and ara attached as follows: - Biceps - Back part of bicipital tuberosity. Supinator Brevis - Inner, anterior & outer aspects of the bone above bicipital tuberosity & oblique line as low down as insertion of pronator radii teres. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum ( Outer Head) - Oblique line. Pronator Radii Teres - Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft. Flexor Longus Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & outer border. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Middle third of posterior surface of shaft. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of shaft below foregoing. Supinator Longus - Outer side of base of styloid process. ULNA — Are thirteen in number, and are attached as follows: - Supinator Brevis - Triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind the depression. Brachialis Anticus - Under surface of coronoid process. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum (Middle Head) - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid process above pronator radii teres. Pronator Radii Teres (Outer Head) - Ridge on inner surface of coronoid process below flexor sublimis. Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner surface of coronoid process, upper two. thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an aponeurosis which is common to it & to flexor carpi nlnaris, upper two-thirds of posterior border. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Posterior Head) - Inner border of olecranon, and by an aponeurosis which is common to it & to flexor prof undus, upper two-thirds of posterior border. Triceps -Back part of upper surface of olecranon. Anconeus - Rough triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of shaft. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner border. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris - Middle third of posterior border. Usually it simply cover but sometimes it arises from, narrow portion of posterior surface internal to the vertical ridge. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface below insertion of anconeus. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior surface. Extensor Indicts - Postd7ior surface below foregoing.56 THE SHOULDEK-JOINT. Is an enarthrodial articulation, though not a typical one; for the glenoid cavity of the scapula is, in comparison with the head of the humerus, remarkably small & shallow, and there is'little more than a mere apposition between the two bones. Considerable mobility ia thus provided for. Displacement is, on the other hand, prevented to a great extent by thel presence of the acromion & coracoid processes & coraco-acromial ligament. — The articular cartilage is thickest in the centre, on the head of th^ humerus, thickest at the periphery, on the glenoid cavity, LIGAMENTS: Capsular - From Neck of scapula rotmd margin of glenoid cavity to Anatomical neck of humerus, extending farthest down humerus along its inner aspect. This capsule is thicker above than below. It is strengthened by the coraoo- humeral ligament externally, by the tendons of the supra- & infraspinatus & teres minor behind, and by that of the subscapularis in front. It has two, sometimes three openings, through which the synovial mem- brane is prolonged upon the tendons of the subscapularis & biceps, and sometimes upon that of the infraspinatus. The tendon of the long head of the biceps per- forates the lower part of the capsule, and becomes surrounded, within the joint, by a complete sheath of synovial membrane. It is remarkably loose, and, when the muscles are cut, it admits of the bones being separated more than an inch. The bones are therefore kept in apposition less by the ligaments themselves than by muscular action & atmospheric pressure. CoraCO-humeral, or Accessory - strong flat band intimately blended with the capsule, and extending obliquely from Root &> outer border of coracoid process to Front of great tuberosity of humerus. Glenoid - Would be better described as an extension of the glenoid cavity than as a liga- ment, for, unlike the cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint, it does not assist in keeping the bones together. It is a fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on section j its thickest portion is attached to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and its sharp edge is free. It is continuous above with the tendon of the long head of the biceps, by the bifurcation of which it is partly formed. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Is prolonged through the above mentioned openings in the capsule Upon the tendon of the biceps, in the shape of a complete sheath, which allows the tendon to traverse the articular cavity without being contained therein; Upon the tendon of the subscapularis in the shape of a pouch of variable size comprised between the tendon & the subscapular fossa ; and sometimes Uf^n the tendon of the infraspinatus va. a similar manner; an independent bursa exist- ing at other times between the muscle & the infraspinous fossa. - An independent bursa exists between the upper part of the capsule & the coraco-acromial ligament & deltoid. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the circumflex & supra-scapular vessels & nerves. MOVEMENTS — The shoulder joint is the freest of all the joints of the body, and admits of movement in every direction. The acromion & coracoid processes & the coraco- acromial ligament prevent displacement upwards of the head of the humerus, and limit, unless the scapula be displaced, the elevation of the arm to aboufc the horizontal position.57 THE ELBOW-JOINT. Is a ginglymoid articulation between the trochlea & the radial tuberosity or capitellum oi the humerus, on the one hand, and, on the other, the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna & the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius. - The articular surfaces of the radius & ulna are continuous with those of the superior radio-ulnar articulation. LIGAMENTS - Are: Anterior - Broad & pretty thick layer of superficial oblique & deeper vertical fibres extending from Inner condyle <Sr» front of humerus just above coronoid fossa to Orbicular ligamentof radius &=■ under surface of coronoid process ofulna, - to which vertical & oblique fibres a few transverse ones are added. Posterior - Thin & membranous; consists of a few irregular fibres mainly trans- verse, which connect Apex dr» sides of olecranon process to Margin of olecranon fossa. External Lateral - Thick, strong,triangular, shorter & narrower than the internal; from External condyle to Orbicular ligament of radius outer border of ulna* Internal Lateral - Thick, strong, triangular; longer & broader than foregoing, and divided into anterior & posterior portions extending respectively from Fronts and from lower <2r» back part of inner condyle, respectively to Inner border of coronoid process^ and inner border of olecranon. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Lines the coronoid & olecranon fosss9, and dips down be- tween the articular surfaces of the superior radio.ulnar articulation. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY - From the superior & inferior profunda, & the radial, ulnar & interosseous recurrent arteries, and from the ulnar & musculo-cutaneous nerves. MOVEMENTS — Flexion & extension only, which are limited by the locking of the coronoid & olecranon processes in their respective fossae. - The inner border of the trochlea descending lower than the outer one, the axis of rotation is oblique downwards & inwards; the path of motion lies, therefore, in a plane, oblique downwards & out- wards, which circumstance, as is remarked by Cruveilhier, brings the hand during flexion naturally and without effort towards the mouth.58 RADIOULNAR ARTICULATIONS. Three in number, superior, middle, & inferior, the middle one consisting merely of two ligamen ts, the interosseous & the oblique or round. SUPERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION - Lateral ginglymus or diarthrosis rotatorius between circumference of head of radius, on the one hand, and lesser sig- moid cavity & inner surface of orbicular ligament of radius, on the other, the lesser sigmoid cavity corresponding to the broad inner part, and the orbicular ligament to the narrow outer part of the radial articular surface. - The only ligament is the Orbicular Ligament - strong flat band, the four-fifths of a ring, which extends, round head & upper part of neck of radius, from Anterior extremity to Posterior eo^remity of lesser sigmoid cavity of ulna. The circumference of its lower border is narrower than that of its upper border, so that the head of the radius is maintained by it both against the ulna & against the capitellum of the humerus. Its inner surface is lined by the synovial membrane, and forms part of the articular surfaces of the joint. Its outer surface gives attachment to external lateral ligament of elbow-joint and to supinator brevia muscle. | MIDDLE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. ! Interosseous Ligament - strong aponeurotic plane of fibres which pass obliquely downwards & inwards between Contiguous borders of radius 6^ ulna.- It is broadest towards middle, perforated inferiorly for anterior interosseous vessels, and deficient above from about an inch below tubercle of radius, thus leaving for posterior interosseous vessels an opening bounded superiorly by the Oblique or Round Ligament - Narrow fasciculus oblique downwards & out- | wards from j Coronoidprocess to Radius half an inch below bicipital tuberosity. INFERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATON — Lateral ginglymus or diarthrosia rotatorius between head of ulna & sigmoid cavity of radius, to which is added an arthrodia between under surface of head of ulna & the triangular fibro-cartilage of the articulation. - The ligaments are: Ant, Radio-Ulnar - Narrow band from Anterior extremity of sigmoid cavity to Front of head of ulna. \ Post. Radio-Ulnar - Narrow band from \ Posterior extremity of sigmoid cavity to Back of head of ulna. Triangular Fibro-Cartilage - The principal band of union, triangular, from Lower margin of sigmoid cavity of radius to Depression at root of styloid process of ulna. Its upper & under surfaces are lined respectively with the synovial mem- branes of the inferior radio-ulnar & radio-carpal articulations, and they come in contact, the one with the head of the ulna, the other with the cunei- form bone. Its margins are blended with the surrounding ligaments. It is thinnest in the centre, and sometimes perforated; the two synovial mem- branes above mentioned are then continuous with each other. Synovial Membrane - is very loose, and is termed the membrana sacciformis. It extends between the triangular fibro-cartilage & the head of the ulna, and becomes continuous, when the former is perforated, with the synovial mem- brane of tho wrist-joint*59 THE WRIST JOINT. Is a condyloid articulation. ARTICULAR SURFACES: The Condyle - Is formed by three bones, the scaphoid, semilunar, & cuneiform. The Eeceiving Cavity - Is formed by the under surface of the radius & by the trian- • gular fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. - The under sur- face of the radius is divided by a linear elevation into two portions, the outer triangular, the inner quadrilateral, which portions correspond respectively to the scaphoid and the semilunar j the cuneiform articulates with the under surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage LIGAMENTS: External Lateral - Short strong band, from / Apex of styloid pi'ocess of radius to Outer side of scaphoid ^ trapezium, anterior annular ligament of carpus. Internal Lateral - Round cord, from Apex of styloid process of ulna to ' ' - Cuneiform 63^ pisiform bones, <2r* anterior annular ligament. Anterior -Strong & broad membrane, from Front of head op ulna, anterior margin of radius dr» its styloid process to Scaphoid, sefnihmar, cuneiform, dr* slightly to os jnagnum. Posterior - Thinner, from Posterior margin of radius to Scaphoid, semilunar cSr* cuneiform. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — Anterior & posterior carpal branches cf radial & ulnai", anterior & posterior interosseous arteries, ascending branches of deep palmar arch,-Ulnarnerve MOVEMENTS — All but rotation.60 FASCIA & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the HAND & WRIST. FASCI^ffi — Are rather ligaments than fasciEe proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Continuous above with deep fascia of forearm, and below with palmar fascia; extends from Pisiform bone <Sr» unciform process of unciform to Tubercle of scaphoid^ (S^ ridge on anterior surface of trapezium. It is pierced by tendon of flexor carpi radialis. Beneath it pass the flexores sublimis & profundus dif?itorum enclosed in one synovial sheath, the flexor longus pollicis enclosed in another sheath, and the median n. Into its anterior surface & upper border are inserted a few fibres of the pal maris longus & flexor carpi ulnaris. From its lower border arise in part the abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis pollicis, and the flexor brevis & opponens minimi digiti. Posterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Thinner than foregoing, from Cuneiform <2r» pisijorm bones^ and lower part of ulna to Styloid process ridges on posterior aspect of radius. Presents six divisions or compartments lined each of them with a separate synovial membrane, and which, from without inwards, correspond to the following osseous grooves, and transmit the following muscles I. - Corresponds to shallow groove on outer side of styloid process of radius. — Trans- mits extensores ossis metacarpi ^ primi internodii pollicis. 3. - Corresponds to broad shallow groove on posterior aspect of styloid process. — Transmits extensores carpi radiates longior dr* brevior. 3. - Corresponds to narrow (Sr* deep groove on back of lower extremity of radius. - Transmits extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 4. - Corresponds to broad shallow groove on back of lower extremity of radius. - Transmits extensores indicis dr* communis digitorum. ^. - Corresponds to groove at point of articulation of radius ^ ulna. — Transmits extensor minimi digiti^ 6. - Corresponds to groove on back of head of ulna. — Transmits extensor carpi ulnaris. Palmar Fascia — Consists of Two Latekal Portions - Thin. Cover muscles of thumb & little finger, and gend pro- cesses between them. Central Portion — Thick, strong, triangular; firmly adherent to integument; covers superficial palmar arch, flexor tendons, & median & ulnar nerves, and gives origin internally to palmaris brevis. It is narrow above, where ib receives expanded tendon of palmaris longus, and is attached to anterior annular ligament; and broad below, where it divides into four slips bound together by transverse fibres. Each slip subdivides into two processes, which processes embrace the flexor tendons, and become attached to bases of first phalanges & glenoid ligaments. Between the slips are seen the palmar interosseous & digital arteries, the terminal branches of the median & ulnar nerves, & the' tendons of the lumbrioales. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Five : - 1. - Membrana Sacciformis of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. 2. - Synovial membrane of the radio-carpal articulation, comprised between the first row of carpal bones & the under surface of the radius & trian- gular fibro.oartilage. 3. - General synovial membrane of the carpus, comprised between bones of first row, between bones of second row, between the two rows of bones, between the second row of carpal bones & the four inner metacarpal bones, and finally between the four inner metacarpal bones. 4. - Synovial membrane of the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 5. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the cuneiform 6^ pisiform,. Tendinous - "Vide Anterior & Posterior Annular Ligaments.LOWER LIMB. I. FRONT & INNER SIDE OF THIGH. 962 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-lst Tablet. ILIAC REGION. Psoas Magnus - Bases of transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae, and by five slips from sides of bodies of lumbar & last dorsal vertebrae & from corres- ponding intervertebral substances; the slips being connected by tendinous arches which extend across the constricted part of the bodies of the vertebrae. Lesser trochanter of femur. - S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. Psoas Parvus - Sides of bodies of last dorsal & first lumbar vertebrae & corresponding intervertebral substance. Ilio-pectineal eminence. ' S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. - Is frequently absent. IliaCUS - Iliac fossa & inner lip of crest of ilium; ilio-lumbar ligamentj base of sacrum; anterior superior & anterior inferior spines of ilium & notch between them J capsule of hip-joint. Outer side of tendon of psoas, and upper part of line from lesser tro- chanter to linea aspera in front of peotineus. - S. by anterior urural nerve. ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. Tensor Vaginse Femoris - Anterior superior spinous process and anterior part of * outer lip of crest of ilium. Fascia lata about J down outer side of thigh. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. SartoriuS - Anterior superior spinous process of ilium & upper half of notch below it. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia covering tendons of gracilis & semitendinosus. - S. by middle or internal cutaneous branch of anterior crural nerve. Rectus Femoris - Anterior inferior spinous process of ilium (straight tendon) ; groove above brim of acetabulum (reflected tendon). Upper border of patella in common with vasti & crureus. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Vastus Externus - Anterior border of great trochanter & horizontal ridge on its outer surface; rough line from great trochanter to linea aspera; whole length of outer lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to outer condyle j external inter- muscular septum. Outer border of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anterior ^ crural nerve. Vastus Internus - Line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & lino from linea aspera to inner condyle; inner sur- face of femur; internal intermuscular septum. Inner border of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Crureus - Anterior & outer surfaces of femur reaching from anterior intertrochanteric line to within a few inches of condyles. Upper border of patella in common with rectus & vasti. - S. by anterior crural nerve. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and describing the Quadriceps extensor feinoris as a Triceps^ we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: -line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle; nearly whole of innery anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur; internal intermuscular septum; - and that it is inserted into tendon of rectus & borders of patella, and slightly into head of tibia. Subcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface of femur. Upper part of synovial membrane of knee-joint. - S. by anterior crural nerve.63 FEMORAL ARTERY Commences beneath Poupart's ligament midway between antero-supei"ior spine of ilium A symphysis pubis, and a little to inner side of head of femur. Passes down front & inner side of thigh, being at first at a distance from, and then close to, the shaft of the bone. Terminates at junction of middle and lower thirds of thigh, becoming popliteal artery in opening in lower part of adductor magnus. - Some Authors describe a common femoral artery descending as low down as the origin of the deep femoral, the main trunk below this branch being called the superficial femoral. Its direction is marked by a line drawn from midway between antero-superior spine of ilium and Bymphysis pubis to inner side of inner condyle of femur. ItiEjLATIOITS —• Must be examined in Scarpa's triangle, or in upper third, and in middle third of thigh. IN SCARPA'S TRIANGLE — The artery divides the triangle into two nearly equal parts, and has In Front - Skin, superficial fascia, fascia lata (except opposite saphenous ope- ning, where latter is replaced by cribriform fascia), sheath; internal cu- taneous nerve & filaments of crural branch of genito-crural n.; inguinal lymphatic glands. Behind - Posterior part of sheath; psoas, pectineus, adductor longus ; profunda artery & vein- On Inner Side at Upper Part - Femoral vein, which becomes posterior below. On Outer Side - Psoas muscle, anterior crural & long saphenous nerves. IN MIDDLE THIRD OP THIGH — It lies behind sartorius in Hunter's canal, -a deep depression between vastus internus & tendons of adductors longus & magnus closed in anteriorly by a band of fascia,-and has femoral vein behind it & to its outer side, and long saphenous nerve to its outer side & in front. BRANCHES: Superficial Epigastric — Arises close to Poupart's ligament. Through saphe- nous opening, and then upwards and inwards in superficial fascia of abdomen, and anastomoses with deep epigastric & internal mammary. Superficial Circumflex iliac — Arises close to Poupart's ligament. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of saphenous opening, and upwards & outwards bs- low Poupart's ligament to crest of ilium. Anastomoses with circumflex iliac & gluteal arteries. Superficial or Sup. Exteriial Pudic Arises near preceding. Inwards through saphenous opening, and then across spermatic cord or round liga- ment to integument of abdomen, penis & scrotum, or labia. Deep or Inf. External Pudic — Arises with or near preceding. Inwards be- neath fascia lata, which it pierces opposite pubes, to integument of perinceum & to scrotum or labia- Profunda Pemoris, or Deep Pemorai ~ Vide p. 67. Muscular Brs. — Numerous, and given ofi" along entire course. Anastomotica magna — Arises in Hunter's canal. Descends upon tendon o4' adductor magnus, and divides into: Superficial Branch — With internal saphenous nerve to integument of inner side of knea. Deep Branch - Through substance of vastus internus to inner side of front of knee, and anastomoses with superior internal & superior external articu- lar arteries & with recurrent branch of tibia!. COLLATERAL OIECULAT. -— Is reestablished after ligature of the common femoral through the gluteal, ilio-lumbar & circumflex iliac arteries, which join with the external circumflex, through the obturator & sciatic, which join with the internal circumflex, through the comes nervi ischiadici, which join wite. the terminal & perforating branches of the profunda . - After ligature of the superficial femoral it is reestablished mainly through the deep femoral h its perforating branches, which join with the articular branches of the popli- taalINTERNAL or LONG SAPHENOUS VEIN - Commences at inner side of arch on dorsum of foot. Accompanies long or internal saphenous nerve in front of internal malleolus, along inner side of leg, & behind inner condyle j it then inclines forwards along inner aspect of thigh, and, passing through saphenous opening, terminates in the femoral about an inch & a half below Poupart's ligament. It receives numerous cutaneous branches from leg & thigh, (the branches from inner aspect of thigh frequently uniting into one large trunk); and it also receives near its termination, the superficial epigas- tric, superficial circumflex iliac & superficial external pudio. It communi- cates with the internal plantar, anterior & posterior tibial, & femoral, and contains from two to six valves, which valves are usually more numerous in the thigh than in the leg.65 ANTEBIOR CRURAL NERVE. The largest branch of lumbar plexus. — Arises mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerves, but receives also a fasciculus from the 2nd. Descends through substance of psoas, and emerges from lower part of its outer border. Passes down between psoas & iliacus, giving off small branches to iliacus & femoral artery. Enters thigh beneath Poupart's ligament half an inch to outer side of femoral artery, and divides into anterior & posterior divisions. ANTERIOR DIVISION - Gives oS: Middle Cutaneous Nerve - Pierces fascia lata & generally sartorius also ( which muscle it then supplies ) about iAree or four inches below Pouparfs ligament, and divides into two branches to integument of front of thigh as low as knee. - Joins with crural branch of genito-crural, internal cutaneous & internal saphenous. Internal Cutaneous Nerve - Crosses upper part of sheath of femoral vessels giving off a few cutaneous filaments, and divides into: Antehioe or External Branch - Pierces fascia lata about lower third of thigh, and divides into branches to integument of inner & outer sides of knee 5 joins with middle cutaneous & long saphenous. Inner or Posterior Branch - Along posterior border of sartorius, joining in a plexiform network beneath fascia with long saphenous & obturator. Pierces fascia lata a little above inner side of knee; supplies integument of inner sides of thigh & upper part of leg, joining with int. saphenous. Lon^ or Internal Saphenous Nerve - The largest branch of anterior division (arises sometimes from posterior division). Along whole length of outer side of femoral artery, lying first at a slight dis- tance from it, and then close to it. Pierces fibrous band which extends from vastus internus to tendons of adduc- tors longus & magnus and forms anterior wall of Hunter's canal. Pierces deep fascia between tendons of sartorius & gracilis^ and joins with internal cutaneous. Passes with internal saphenous vein along inner side of leg & divides into two branches; one terminates at inner ankle, the other passes in front of ankle to integument of inner side of foot. Joins in plexiform network above mentioned with internal cutaneous & obtura- tor nerves; - gives off to integument of front of knee a large branch, nervus outaneus patellge, which, joining with external, middle & internal cutaneous nerves & other branches of long saphenous, forms plexus patellae in front of knee j - gives off numerous branches to integument of front & kxner side of leg, POSTERIOR DIVISION - Gives off. Muscular Branches To all the muscles of front of thigh except tensor vaginas femoris supplied by superior gluteal n., and Sartorius supplied by filaments from middle or sometimes from internal cutaneous nerve, [pectineus is partly supplied by - ^. , ^ obturator nerve] Articular Branches Two: - one from nerve to vastus externus, long & slender «fc distributed to front of capsule J one from nerve to vastus internus, accompanies deep branch of anastomotic^ magna to inner side of capsu}«.66 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-2nd Tablet. INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. PectineUS - Ilio-pectineal line & surface in front of it. Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera, & into femtir behind trochanter minor. -S. by obturator or anterior crural nerve; - by acces- sory obturator nerve when the latter exists. Gracilis - inner margin of rami of pubes & ischium & lower half of inner margin of body of pubes. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia above semitendinosus, and beneath sartorius. - S. by obturator nerve. Adductor LongUS - Front of pubes immediately below the crest & close to angle. Middle third of inner lip of linea aspera between vastus internus & ad- ductor magnus. - S. by obturator nerve. Adductor Brevis - Front of pubes for about two inches below adductor longus & between gracilis & obturator externus. Upper part of linea aspera & lower part of line from it to lesser trochan- ter below & behind pectineus. - S. by obturator nerve or anterior crural nerve. Adductor Magnus - Lower part of descending ramus of pubes j ascending ramus & outer side of tuberosity of ischium. Lower part of line from great trochanter to linea aspera, whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from it to inner condyle; by a strong tendon into tubercle at upper & back part of inner condyle. - S. by obturator & great Bciatic nerves.67 DEEP FEMORAL ABTERY From onter & back part of femoral one or two inclies below Poupart's ligament, and nearly equals superficial femoral in size. Downwards & outwards in front of iliacus, on outer side of femoral artery • Downwards & inwards behind femoral vessels & profunda vein, and in front of pectinens: Backwards between pectineus & adductor longus ; Downwards behind adductor longus, in front of adductors brevis & magnus; - and ends in a small branch, which perforates lower part of adductor magnus to mus- cles of back of thigh, and anastomoses with inferior perforating & with branches of popliteal. BRANCHES: EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX — The larger. From outer side of artery close to its origin. ' Outwards between branches of anterior crural nerve and beneath sarto- rius & rectus, and divides into branches : AscENDiNO - Beneath tensor vaginge femoris, and anastomose with gluteal & circumflex iliac. Descending - Usually three or four & of considerable size. - Beneath rectus muscle to vasti, principally the external. One large branch descends with nerve to vastus externus as low as knee, and anastomoses with articular branches of popliteal. TfiANSVERSE - Smaller. Wind round femur below trochanter major in substance of vastus externus, and anastomose with internal circumflex, sciatic & superior perforating, INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX — The smaller. From inner & back part close to origin. Backwards between pectineus & psoas, and winds round inner side of neck of femur to interval between quadratus femoris and adductor magnus, and anastomoses with external circumflex, sciatic & supe- rior perforating. Gives off branches : Ascending - To adductor muscles, gracilis & obturator externus; anastomoses with obturator. Descending - Between adductors brevis & magnus, which it supplies. Articular - Into acetabulum through notch beneath transverse ligament; supplies adipose tissue, and sends twigs along round ligament to head of femur. PERFORATING — Usually three & of good size. - Arise behind adductor longus, above, in front of, and below, adductor brevis, and pass to back of thigh, the SUPERIOR, — Perforating the adductor magnus above the brevis ( some- perforating adductor brevis also); MIDDLE, — Perforating both these adductors j INFERIOR, — Perforating the adductor magnus below the brevis; and supply hamstring muscles & anastomose with each other, sciatic, internal circmflex & termination of profunda, the middle •n®, the largest, giving off ascending & descending branches, and nutrient artery of femur.68 OBTURATOR NERVE. Arisea mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerveg, but receives also a fasciculus from tlie 2nc (Sappey, Hirschfeldt, & Quain's diagram of lumbar plexus). Descends through inner fibres of psoas, and emerges from inner border of that rauscla opposite brim of pelvis. Along outer wall of pelvis above obturator vessels to upper part of obturator foramen; enters thigh, and divides into: Anterior Branch - The smaller. Descends in front of adductor brevis, and behind pec- tineus & adductor longus, to femoral artery, upon which it is distributed below the latter muscle. Gives off branches; - Articular - To hip-joint; arises near obturator foramen. Muscular - To gracilis & adductor longus, and sometimes to pectinens & adductor brevis; Anastomotic to Internal Cutaneous & Internal Saphenous Nerves - Arises opposite lower border of adductor longus, and forms with the foregoing nerves a plexiform network beneath deep fascia of thigh. Sometimes this anterior branch of the obturator nerve, and its communicating offset to the internal cutaneous & internal saphenous nerves, are larger than usual. The latter then gives off cutaneous filaments to the skin of the lower & inner part of the thigh, and descends along the posterior bor- der of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee-joint; here it pierces the deep fascia, communicates again with the internal saphenous nerve (which is then smaller than usual), and supplies the skin of the inner side of the leg as low as its middle. Posterior Branch. - The larger. Pierces upper fibres of obturator externus, and des- cends behind adductor brevis in front of adductor magnus; gives off branches: - Muscular - To obturator externus & adductor magnus (and to adductor brevis, when the latter is not supplied by the anterior branch of the nerve). Articular - Through opening in lovrer part of adductor magnus, and upon the pop- liteal artery to back of knee-joint. ACCESSORY OBTURATOR NERVE Arises (when it exists) either directly from obturator nerve, or, by separate filaments, from the 2nd, 3rd, & 4th lumbar. Descends along inner side of psoas, crosses front of pubes, gets behind pectineus, and divides into branches to pectineus & hip-joint. Communicates with anterior branch of obtursvtor nerve; the communicating branch is some- times large, and is then prolonged as a cataneous nerve to the thigh & leg (Gray)LOWER LIMB. II. FRONT OF LEG & DORSUM OF FOOT.70 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB—3rd Tablet. ANTERIOR TIBIO-PIBULAR REGION. Tibisilis Anticus - Outer tuberosity & upper two'thirds of outer surface of shaft of til^la; adjoining part of the interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & extensor longus digitorumj deep fascia. Inner & under surfaces of internal cuneiform bone & base of first meta. tarsa\. — !s. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor Longus Digitorum - Outer tuberosity of tibia; upper three-fourths of an- terior surface of shaft of fibula j interosseous membrane j septa between it and tibialis anticus & peronei muscles; deep fascia. Bases of 2n(l & 3rd phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor Proprius Pollicis - Middle two-fourths of anterior surface of shaft of fibula internally to extensor longus digitorum ; interosseous membrane. Base of last phalanx of great toe. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. PeroneUS Tertius - Lower fourth of anterior surface of shaft of fibula; lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & peroneus brevis. Base of 5th metatarsal bone. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. FIBULAR REGION. Peroneus Longus - Head & upper two-thirds of outer surface & of anterior & posterior borders of fibula j intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg ; deep fascia. Outer side of base of first metatarsal bone. - S. by musoulo-outaneous branch of exisrnal popliteal nerve. Peroneus Brevis - liOwer two-thirds of outer surface of shaft of fibula, passing upwards in a pointed process beneath peroneus longus j intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg. Base of fifth metatarsal bone. - S. by musoalo-outaneoua branch of exter- nal popliteal nerve. MUSCLES of the FOOT. DORSAL EEGION. Extensor Brevis Digitorum - Outer & uppor surfaces of greater process of OS calcis, calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, anterior annular ligament of tarsus. First phalanx of great toe & outer sides of long extensor tendons of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th toes, - S. hj external branch of anterior tibial nerve.71 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY Anterior & smaller branch of bifurcation of popliteal opposite lower border of popliteni - muscle. Forwards between the two heads of tibialis posticus, and between tibia & fibula through opening in upper part of interosseous ligament. Downwards in front of interosseous ligament, shaft of tibia & ankle joint ( where becomes dorsalis pedis), passing between tibialis anticus & extensor loiTgus digitorum, between tibialis anticus & extensor proprius pollicis, between tendon of extensor pro- prius pollicis, which crosses it, and innermost tendon of extensor longus digitorum ; - lying in a line from inner side of head of fibula to midway between malleoli, and being deeply situated, above, between muscles on either side & beneath tendon cf extensor proprius pollicis, and superficially, below, beneath skin, anterior annular ligament & fascia. Has two venas comites. Anterior tibial nerve is first external, then anterior, then again external to it. BRANCHES : Recurrent tibisil — Arises in upper part of leg. Upwards through tibialis anticus to front of knee, and anastomoses with inf. articular branches of popliteal. Muscular — Numerous small branches to muscles on either side. Malleolar — Two j rather variable in size. Arise near ankle, and pass, the Internal, - To inner ankle beneath tendons of extensor proprius pollicis & tibia- lis antious, External, - To outer ankle beneath extensor longus dij Acorum, and anastomose respectively with posterior tibial & internal plantar, and with tarsal & peroneal. DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY From bend of ankle to back of first interosseous space, resting upon bones of tarsus be- tween tendon of extensor proprius pollicis & innermost tendon of extensor brevis digitomm, which crosses it near termination, and having anterior tibial nerve on its outer side. BRANCHES: Tarsal — Arches outwards beneath extensor brevis digitorum, and anastomoses with metatarsal, external malleolar & external plantar. Metatarsal — More or less obliquely forwards in front of preceding. Gives off the Three outer Dorsal Interosseous Arteries - Along corresponding interosseous spaces. Are joined by anterior & posterior perforating branches, and supply dorsal digital branches to 3| toes on outer side of foot. Dorsal Art. of Great Toe — is the first dorsal interosseous artery, and supplies dorsal digital branches to 1^ toes on inner side of foot. ConUHUnicating — Between the two heads of first dorsal interosseous muscle, and inosculates with external plantar, completing plantar arch. Gives aS.' plantar digital brancheR to 1| toes on loner side of fooi.72 EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The smaller of the two terminal branches of great soiatio. Along outer side of popliteal space close to biceps. Pierces peroneus longus an inch below head of fibula, and divides into anterior tibial & musculo-contaneous. Gives off branches: - Articular - Three; accompany the two external articular & the recurrent tibial arteries to knee-joint. Cutaneous - Two or three; supply integument of outer & back part of leg; one, the communicans fibularis, crossses outer head of gastroc- nemius, and joins the communicans tibialis to form external or short saphenous nerve (V. below). Anterior Tibial Nerve - Beneath extensor longus digitorum to front of interosseous; membrane; along outer side, in front of, and again along outer Bide of anterior tibial artery to front of ankle-joint. - Supplies muscles of front of leg, and divides into : External Branch - Beneath extensor brevis digitorum, which it supplies; becomes ganglionic, and supplies articulations of tarsus. Imtehnal Beanch - With dorsalis pedis artery along inner side of dorsum of foot; supplies adjoining sides of great & second toes, and joins with musculo-cutaneous. MuSCUlo-CutaneonS Nerve - Between peronei muscles, which it supplies, and extensor longus digitorum; pierces deep fascia about lower third of front of leg, and divides into; Inteknal Branch - Supplies inner side of great toe, adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd toes, & integument of inner side of foot; joins with internal saphenous & anterior tibial. External Branch - Supplies adjoining sides of 3rd, 4th, & 5th toes, and integ- ument of outer side of foot; joins with external or short saphenous. External Saphenous Nerve—Behind outer malleolus with external saphenous vein, and supplies integument of outer side of foot & little toe; joins with musculo-cutaneous. Is sometimes larger than usual, and then supplies both sides of little toe, and outer side of 4th, EXTERNAL or SHORT SAPHENOUS VEIN — Commences at outev side of arch on dorsum of foot. Accompanies external or short sap^nous nerve behind outer malleolus, along outer border of, & over, tendo Aobillis, and between the two heads of gastrocnemius; it then perforates deep fascia at lower part of popliteal space, and opens into the popliteal. It receives numerous branches from back of leg, and communicates with deep veins on dorsum of foot & behind external malleolus. It is provided with two valves, ore of which is always found near its termination.LOWER LIMB. III. GLUTEAL REGION, BACK OF THIGH, POPLITEAL SPACE. 1174 MUSCLES of L.OWER-4th Tablet. GLUTEAL REGION. Gluteus Maximus - Superior curved line on dorsum ilii & rough Burface between it & posterior fifth of crest of ilium ; sides of lower part of sacrum and coccyx & ten- dinous expansion over back of sacrum ; posterior surface of great sacro-solatio ligament. Fascia lata covering outer side of thigh, & rough line from great trochan- ter to linea aspera. - S. by inferior gluteal nerve. Gluteus Medius - Dorsum ilii between superior & middle curved lines & outer lip of crest between them ; fascia covering anterior part of the muscle. Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. Gluteus Minimus - Dorsum ilii between middle & inferior curved lines. Anterior border of great trochanter. - S. by superior gluteal nerve. Pyriformis - By three fleshy digitations from front of sacrum between first, second, third, & fourth anterior sacral foramina & from grooves leading from them; margin of great sacro-sciatic foramen & anterior surface of great sacro-sciatic ligament. Posterior part of upper border of great trochanter. - S. by one of the mas- cular Ipranches of sacral plexus. Obturator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of and behind ob- turator foramen; inner surface of obturator membrane & fibrous arch which completes canal for obturator vessels & nerve. Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Gemellus Superior - Outer surface of spine of ischium. Upper part of tendon of obturator internus. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Gemellus Inferior - Upper part of outer Hp of tuberosity of ischium. Lower border of tendon of obturator internus. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Quadratus Femoris - Outer border of tuberosity of ischium. Upper part of linea quadrati on back of great trochanter. - S. by one of the muscular branches of sacral plexus. Obturator ExternUS - inner two-thirds of outer surface of obturator membrane; cir- cumference of obturator foramen, and fibrous arch which completes canal for obturator vessels & nerve. Digital fossa of femur. - S. by obturator nerve.75 GLUTEAL ARTERY. The largest branch of internal iliac, and the continuation of its poste.ior division. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen above pyriformia, and then between latter muscle and gluteus mgdius, and divides into: Superficial Branch - Gives off numerous branches to gluteus maximus & in- tegument over sacrum; Deep Branch - Forwards between glutei medius & minimus, aud divides into: Superior Division - Along upper border of gluteus minimus towards an- terior superior spine of ilium, and joins with circumflex iliac. Inferior Division - Crosses gluteus minimus towards great trochanter, and joins with ascending branch of external circumflex. SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE. From back of lumbo-sacral cord. With gluteal vessels through upper part of great sacro-sciatic foramen above pyriformis, and divides into : Superior Branch - Along middle curved line on dorsum ilii with superior division of deep branch of gluteal artery. Supplies glutei medius & minimus Inferior Branch - Directly forwards between glutei medius & minimus, which it also supplies, and terminates in tensor vaginae femoris. SCIATIC ARTERY. The larger of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery, and the largest branch of the artery after pluteal. Downwards in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying a little behind & to outer side of intern?il pudic. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis and between great sciatic nerve & pudic vessels & nerve. With small sciatic nerve over gemelli, obturator internus & quadrat us femoris and in front of gluteus maximus. Gives off branches: Muscular, Articular to hip-joint; Coccygeal, Inferior Gluteal ; Comes Nervi Ischiadici - Long, slender 5 with, and subsequently within sheath of, great sciatic nerve to lower part of thigb. SMALL SCIATIC NERVE. From lower & back part of sacral plexus. With sciatic vessels through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis. Descends beneath gluteus maximus on inner side of g'reat sciatic nerve. Along back of thigh beneath fascia lata to lower part of popliteal space. Perforates deep fascia, and accompanies external saphenous vein to skin of back of leg; communicates with external saphenous nerve. Gives off branches: Inferior Gluteal - Several, large; to under surface of gluteus maximus. Inferior Pudendal - Forwards below tuber ischiito skin of periuseura and upper & inner part of thigh, and to scrotum or labium. Cutaneous — Descending. To skin of inner & outer sides of back of thigh, popliteal space and back of leg. Ascending. Wind round lower border of gluteus maximus to integu- ment over its surface. MUSCULAR BRS. OF SACRAL PLEXUSo To pyriformis, obturator internus, gemelli & quadratus femoris. The nerve to obturator internus passes behind spine of ischium and through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to inner surface of the muscle. The gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris are supplied by a common branch, whiGh runs between capsule of hip-joint and the obturator internus & gemelli^ and gives off an articular filament to the joint.76 PUDIO ARTERY. The smaller of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery. Descends in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying to the inner side & a little in front of sciatic artery. With pudic nerve through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis on inner side of sciatic nerves & sciatic artery. Winds round spine of ischium and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa below pudic nerve, being covered by obturator fascia, and lying at first 1| inches above lower extremity of tuber ischii, but approaching surface as it progresses. Pierces deep layer of deep perinseal fascia, and ascends along pubic arch between the two layers of that fascia to near symphysis pubis. Pierces superficial layer of deep perinseal fascia, and divides into artery of corpus cavernosum and dorsal artery of penis. It gives oS.:-Inferior I/amorr/wtdal, Superficial Perinczal, Transverse Ferinceal, Artery of the Bulb, ^ Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum, PUDIO NERVE. From lower part of sacral plexus. With pudic artery through lower part of great sacro-aoiatio foramen on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, where it gives off inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa above pudio artery, both nerve & artery being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into perinaeal nervo & dorsal nerve of the penis.77 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-5th Tablet. POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION (Hamstring Musceles) Biceps. Long Head - In common with semitendinosuB from lower & inner of the two sur- faces on back part of tuberosity of ischium. Short Head - Whole length of outer lip of linea aspera between adductor magnus & vastus externus and from inferior external division of linea aspera to within two inches of outer condyle. Outer side of head of fibula by a strong tendon, which divides into two parts to embrace long external lateral ligament of knee-joint, sends a fibrous prolongation to outer tuberosity of tibia, and gives off an expansion to fascia of leg. - S. by great sciatic nerve. Seinitendinosus - in common with long head of biceps from lower & inner of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity of ischium. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia below gracilis & beneath sar. torius - S. by great sciatic nerve. Semimembranosus - tJpper and outet^ of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity of ischium above & on outer side of origin of biceps & semitendinosua. By a tendon which divides into three portions, into: Posterior part of inner tuberosity of tibia, sending an expansion over popliteusj Groove on inner side of inner tuberosity of tibia beneath internal lateral ligament of knee-joint; Posterior & upper part of outer condyle of femur, forming chief part of posterior ligament of knee-joint. - S. by great sciatic nerve. #.78 GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. Arises from the lumbo-sacral cord & tlio four upper sacral nerves, and is the continuation of the sacral plexus. Through great sacro-sclatic foramen below pyriformia, on outer side of pudic vessels & nerve. Downwards between trochanter major & tuber ischii, behind external rotator muscles & adductor magnus, to lower third of back of thigh, where it divides into external & in-/ ternal popliteal.! Is covered by gluteus maximum & biceps. Gives off branches : - Articular - To back of hip-joint. Muscular - To hamstring muaoles & adductor magnus. EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The smaller of the two terminal branches of great sciatic. Along outer side of popliteal space close to biceps. Pierces peroneus longus an inch below head of fibula, and divides into anterior tibial & musculo-contaneous. Gives off branches: - Articular - Three; accompany the two external articular & the recurrent' , . . tibial arteries to knee-joint., . Cutaneous - Two or three; supply integument of outer & back part of leg; one, the communicans fibularis, crossses outer head of gastroc- nemius, and joins the communicans tibialis to form external or' V short saphenous nerve (V. next Tablet),]79 INTEENAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The larger of the two terminal branches of great sciatic. Through raiddle of popliteal space to lower border of popllteuSj where it becomes posterior tibial. Is first superficial & external and at a distance from, then superficial & internal and closo to, popliteal vessels. -Its branches are-. Articular - Threej accompany the two internal & the azygos articular arteries to knee-joint. Mtisadar - To gastrocnemius, plantaris, popliteus, soleug. Communicans Tibialis - Between heads of gastrocnemius to middle of back of leg, where it pierces deep fascia and joins communicans fibulaiis to form the External Saphenous Nerve - Behind outer malleolus with external saphenous vein, and supplies integument of outer side of foot & little toe J joins with musculo.cutaneous. Is sometimes larger than usual, and then supplies boih sides of little toe, ii:d outer side of 4th,POPLITEAL ARTERY. Oommenoes at opening in lower part of adductor magnus. Downwards & outwards to back of knee-joint, and then vertically downwards to lower border of popliteus muscle, where divides into anterior & posterior tibial. EELATIONS: In Fkont - Inner & posterior surfaces of femur, posterior ligament of knee-joint, popliteus muscle. Behind - Skin & fascia ; quantity of fat & lymphatic glands; semimembranosus; gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus j popliteal vein, internal popliteal nerve. On Inner Side - Semimembranosus; inner condyle; inner head of gastrocnemitis. On Outer Side - Biceps; outer condyle; outer head of gastrocnemius, plantaris. Popliteal vein lies close to artery, and is superficial & external to it except at lower part, where it crosses to inner side; it is frequently double at lower part. - Internal popliteal nerve is more superficial & exter- nal above, and is superficial & internal below. BRANCHES: MUSCULAR: Superior Two or three, small, to hamstring muscles & vasti. Anasto. mose with perforating & articular arteries. Inferior or Sural — Two, large, to heads of gastrocnemius & plantaris. CUTANEOUS: — A few, slender j arise separately or with sural. Over gastroc- nemius to integument of back of leg.' ARTICULAR-Five: Superior - Two. wind round femur above condyles to front of knee, pas- sing, the Internal, - Beneath tendon of adductor magnus; External, - Beneath tendon of biceps; and both dividing into Superficial & deep brs. - to vasti, femur & joint, and anastomosing ( with each other, and with inferior articular arteries, anas- ' tomotica magna & descending branch of external cir- cumflex. AzygOS - Arises behind posterior ligament of knee-joint, which it pierces to supply interarticular ligaments & synovial membrane. Inferior - Two. Arise beneath gastrocnemius, and wind round head of tibia beneath internal & external lateral ligaments, the external artery passing above head of fibula & beneath tendon of biceps. Divide into numerous branches to front of knee, and anastomose with each other, and with superior articular & Ihe recurrent branch of tibial.LOWER LIMB. IV. BACK OF LEG; SOLE OF FOOT.82 POPLITEAL ABTERY Commences at opening in lower part of adductor magnna. Downwards & outwards to back of knee-joint, and then vertically downwards to lower border of popliteus muscle, where divides into anterior & posterior tibial. RELATIONS: In Front - Inner & posterior surfaces of feranr, posterior ligament of knee-joint, popliteus muscle. Behind - Skin & fascia ; quantity of fat & lymphatic glands; semimembranosus; . gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus j popliteal vein, internal popliteal nerve. On Inner Side - Semimembranosus; inner condyle; inner head of gastrocnemius. On Outer Side - Biceps; outer condyle; outer head of gastrocnemius, plantaris. Popliteal vein lies close to artery, and is superficial & external to it except at lower part, where it crosses to inner side; it is frequently double at lower part. - Internal popliteal nerve is more superficial & exter- nal above, and is superficial & internal below. BRANCHES: MUSCULAR: Superior — Two or three, small, to hamstring muscles & vasti. Anneto- mose with perforating & articular arteries. Inferior or Sural — Two, large, to heads of gastrocnemius & plantaris. CUTANEOUS: —A few, slender; arise separately or with sural. Over gastroc- nemius to integument of back of leg. ARTICULAR-Five: Superior - Two. Wind round femur above condyles to front of knee, pas- sing, the ^ Internal, - Beneath tendon of adductor magnus; Ex''ERNAL,- Beneath tendon of biceps; and both dividing into Superficial & deep brs. - to vasti, femur & joint, and anastomosing with each other, and with inferior articular arteries, anas- tomotica magna & descending branch of external cir- cumflex. AzygOS - Arises behind posterior ligament of knee-joint, which it pierces to supply interarticular ligaments & synovial membrane. Inferior - Two. Arise beneath gastrocnemius, and wind round head of tibia beneath internal & external lateral ligaments, the external artery passing above head of fibula & beneath tendon of biceps. Divide into numerous branches to front of knee, and anastomose with each other, and with superior articular & the recurrent branch of tibial.83 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB^6th Tablet. POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Gastrocnemius. Inner Head - Depression at upper and back part of inner condyle. Outer Head - Depression at upper & back part of outer condyle above groove for popliteus. - Both heads also arise from lower part of the two inferior divisions of linea aspera. By a strong aponenrosis which covers front of the muscle, and contracts into a tendon which joins with that of soleus, into lower part of posterior surface of OS calcis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. Soleus - Back of head & upper third of posterior surface of shaft of fibula; middle third of inner border and oblique line on posterior surface of shaft of tibia; tendinous arch between tibial & fibular origins of the muscle beneath which arch pass posterior tibial vessels & nerve. By a strong aponeurosig which covers posterior surface of the muscle and contracts into a tendon which joins with that of gastrocnemius (Tendo Aohillis), into lower part of posterior surface of os calcis. — S. by internal popliteal nerve. PlailtEiris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera & post, ligament of knee-joint. Joins inner border of tendo Aohillis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. DEEP LAYER. Popliteus - Anterior & deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femur below tubercle for external lateral ligament, of knee-joint. Inner two-thirds of triangular surface on back of upper part of tibia above oblique line. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. Flexor LbngUS Pollicis - Lower two-thirds of posterior surface of shaft of fibula; lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & peronei; fascia over tibialis posticus. Base of the last phalanx of great toe. -S. by posterior tibial nerve. Flexor LongUS Digitorum - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line & . internally to attachment of tibialis posticus; fascia over tibialis posticus. Bases of last phalanges of four outer toes. - S, by posterior tibial nerve. Tibialis Posticus - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line & externally to attachment of flexor longus digitorum; nearly whole of posterior surface of interosseous membrane; upper three-fourths of inner surface of shafo of fibula; fascia between it & foregoing muscles. Tuberosity of scaphoid and internal & external cunoiform bones. - Supplied by posterior tibial nerve.84 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY Posterior & larger branch of bifurcation of popliteal opposite lower border of poplitetis muscle. Downwards & inwards upon tibialis posticus, flexor longus* digitorum, lower end of tibia & ankle joint, being covered by gastrocnemius, soleus and deep layer of fascia in upper two-thirds, and, in lower third, by integument & fascia only on inner side of tendo Achillis. Divides into the two plantar arteries midway between internal malleolus & heel, and between tendons of tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum, which are anterior & internal to it, and tendon of flexor longus poUicis, which lies posterior & external. Posterior tibial nerve is first posterior & internal to it, but soon crosses to its outer side. BRANCHES: Peronsal — Arises an inch below lower border of popliteig. Downwards & outwards upon tibialis posticus & flexor longus poUicis & between fibres of latter miscle, and beneath soleas & deep layer of fascia, and ends on outer side of os calcis, joining with external malleolar & 3xternal plantar. Gives ofi" branches i Muscular - To soleus & muscles of deep layer, and peronei. Nutrient to Fibula - Downwards in nutrient canal towards lower extremity of the bone. Communicating to Post. Tibial - Inwards beneath flexor tendons a little above ankle joint. Ant. Peroneal - The largest branch. Through interosseous membrane two inches above malleoli. Downwards beneath peroneus tertius to outer side of tarsus, and joins with external malleolar & tarsal. SyCusCUlsir — To soleus & muscles of deep layer. Nutrient to Tibia — The largest of the nutrient arteries. - Downwards in nutrient canal towards lower extremity of the bone. Communicating to Peroneal — Outwards beneath flexor tendons a little above ankle joint. Internal calcanean "Sq integument & fat about tendo Achillis & heel.85 POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. Commences at lower border of popliteias. Beneath arch of soleus, superficial muscles, & deep layer of fascia to interval bso tween inner malleolus & heel, where it divides into internal & external plantar^ Is first internal & posterior to posterior tibial vessels, but soon passes to tbeii? outer side. - Its branches aroj Muscular-1^0 flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus. Plantar Cutaneous - Perforates internal annular ligament to integumeni of heel & inner part of sole of foot.86 MUSCLES of SOLE of FOOT. FIRST LAYER. Flexor Brevis Digitorum - Greater tuberosity of 03 calcisj central part of plantar fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Sides of second phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by int. plantar n. Abductor Pollicis - Grreater tuberosity of os calcis; internal annular liga- ment ; intermuscular septum between it and flexor brevis digitorum. Inner side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by int. plantar n. Abductor Minimi Digiti - Lesser tuberosity of os calcis, greater tuberosity in front of flexor brevis, and slightly from under surface of os calcis in front of tuberosities; plantar fascia; intermuscular septum between it & flexor brevis. Outer side of base of first phalanx of little toe. - S. by trunk of ex- ternal plantar nerve before its bifurcation. SECOND LAYER. Flexor Longus Digitorum. Flexor Accessorius - inner & under surfaces of os calcis by two heads which embrace the long plantar ligament. Outer border and upper & under surfaces of tendon of flexor longus digitorum. - S. by trunk of external plantar nerve before its bifurcation. Lumbricales - Tendons of flexor longus digitorum, the innermost from one, the others from two tendons. Inner side of extensor tendons & inner side of bases of first phalan- I ges of four outer toes. - S., the two inner ones by internal plantar nerve, the two outer ones by deep branch of external plantar. Flexor Longus Pollicis. THIRD LAYER. Flexor Brevis Pollicis - By a tendinous process from adjoining borders of cuboid & external cuneiform, & from expansion of tendon of tibialis posticus. Inner & outer sides of base of first phalanx of great toe, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon of insertion. - S. by int. plantar n. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti - Base of 5th metatarsal bone & sheath of peroneus longus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of little toe. - S. by superficial branch of external plantar nerve. Adductor Pollicis - Bases of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th metatarsal bones & sheath of peroneus longus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by deep branch of external plantar nerve. Transversus Pedis - Head of 5th metatarsal bone & transverse ligament of the metatarsus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by deep branch of external plantar nerve. FOURTH LAYER. Plantar Interossei - Three. Arise from lower or plantar half of inner side of shaft of 3rd, 4th, & 5th metatarsal bones, and are inserted into inner side of base of first phalanx of corresponding toes, & into the expansion of the corresponding long extensor tendon. - They adduct the toes towards the second toe. - S. by external plantar nerve. Dorsal Interossei - Four. Arise from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones, as follows: - from the whole extent of the side of the metatarsal bone which corresponds to the toe into which the muscle is inserted in- feriorly, from the upper or dorsal half only of the side of the other. They are inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first phalanx o( the toe to which they belong. - They are found on both sides of the 2ad toe and on the outer side of the 3rd & 4th toes. - They abduct therefore! the th,ree middle toes from an imaginary line drawn through the second toe. - S. by external plantar nerve. ,87 THE PLANTAB ARTERIES Brandies of bifurcation of posterior tibial beneath internal annular ligament & origin of ab^ ductor pollicis. INTERNAL PLANTAR - The smaller. Forwards between abductor pollicis & flexor brevis digitorum, and ends at extremity of first metatarsal bone in a small branch which runs along inner border of great toe, and joins with the corresponding plantar digital artery from communicating branch of dorsalis pedis, EXTERNAL PLANTAR - The larger. Outwards between flexor brevis digitorum & flexor accessorius, and then forwards be« tween former muscle & abductor minimi digiti as far as base of 5th metatarsal bone. Round outer border of flexor accessorius, and inwards upon interossei & bases of the metatarsal bones, -beneath adductor pollicis, flexor tendons & lumbricales,- to back of first interosseous space, where inosculates with communicating branch of dorsalis pedis, thus completing plantar arch, BRANCHES: Posterior perforating — Three - Through back part of three outer interos. seous spaces, and inosculate with dorsal interosseous branches from metatarsal. Plantar interosseous (Bigital) — Four. Forwards upon interosseous spaces (outermost crossing under surface of 5th metatarsal bone under cover of abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti), and supply plantar digital branches to 3J toes on outer side of foot. The three innermost give off the Ant. Peeforating arteries - Three. Through anterior part of three outer interosseous spaces, and inosculate with the dorsal interoa seous branches from metatarsal jnst before they bifurcate.88 THE PLANTAR NERVES. Internal Plantar Nerve - The larger. With internal plantar artery between abduc tor poUicis & flexor brevis digitorura, and divides into four digital branches to 3J toes on inner side of foot. Supplies flexor brevis digitorum, abductor & flexor brevk* ^ollicis, two inner lumbricales, integument of sole of foot & articulations of tarsus; joins with external plantar. External Plantar Nerve - The smaller. With external plantar artery between flexors accessorius & brevis, and then between flexor brevis & ab- ductor minimi digiti j supplies the first & the last of these muscles, and divides into: Superficial Bkakch - Supplies I| toes on outer side of foot, flexor brevis minimi digiti & interossei of 4th space; joins with internal plantar. Deep Bkanch - Accompanies plantar arch; supplies remaining interossei & lumbricales, adductor pollicis, & transversus pedis.LOWER LIMB. V. MUSCULAR ATTACHMENTS. ARTICULATIONS.90 MUSCULAR ATTACHTS. of BS. of LOWER LIMB-lst T. The mnsoules attached to the INNOMINATE BONE — Are thirty.t-wo in number, and are attached as follows: - Ilium-Thirteen Gluteus Maximus - Superior curved line on dorsum ilii and rough surface between it & posterior fifth of crest. Gluteus Medius - Dorsum ilii & outer lip of crest between superior & middle curved lines. Gluteus Minimus - Dorsum ilii between middle & inferior curved lines. Rectus Femoris (Reflected Tendon) - Groove above brim of acetabulum. (Straight Tendon) - Anterior inferior spine. Iliacus - Iliac fossa & inner lip of crest. Sartorius - Anterior superior spine & upper half of notch below it. Tensor Vagince Femoris - Anterior superior spine & anterior fifth of outer lip of crest. Obliquus Externus - Anterior half of outer lip of crest. Latissimus Dorsi - Posterior half of outer lip of crest. Internal Oblique - Anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest. Transversalis - Anterior three-fourths of inner lip of crest. ^ Quadratus Lumborum - Posterior part of inner lip of crest for about two or three inches in front of erector spinie. Erector Spince - Posterior superior spine & posterior fifth of inner lip of crest. Ischium - Fourteen:- Gracilis - Inner margin of ascending ramus. Adductor Magnus - Ascending ramus & outer side of tuberosity. Obturator Externus - Circumference of obturator foramen. Transversus Ferincei - Inner & fore part of tuberosity. Erector Penis or Clitoridis - Pubic arch & fore part of inner side of tuberosity. Obtui ator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of and behind ob- ^ „ ^ , . ^ turator foramen. Gemellus Superior ^ Levator Ani V - Spine. Coccygeus j Gemellus Inferior - Upper part of outer lip of tuberosity, < Quadratus Femoris - Whole length of outer lip of tuberosity. Biceps (Long Head) - Lower & inner of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity. Semitendinosus - Lower & inner of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity. Semimembranosus - Upper & outer of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity. Fubes - Twelve :- Fectineus - Uio-pectineal line & surface in front of it. Adductor Longus - Front of body immediately below the crest & close to angle. Adductor Brevis - Front of body for about two inches below adductor longus & between ^ -, ,. gracilis & obturator externus. Adductor Magnus -Lower part of descending ramus. Gracilis — Inner mai'gin of ramus & lower half of inner margin of body. Obturator Externus - Circumference of obturator foramen. Obturator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of & behind ob turator forame Rectus abdominis l Pyramidalis > - Crest. Conjoined Tend, of Int. Oblique <Sr* Transv* ) Levator Ani - Back of body.91 MUSCULAE ATTAOHTS. of BS. of LOWER LIMB-2nd T The muscules attached to the FEMUR — Are twftnty.four in number, and are attached as follows: - Vastus Extemus - Anferior border of cri eafc trochanter & horizontal ridsre on its outer sur- face; rough line from pri-eat trochanter to linea aspera; who'e length of outer lip of linea aspera and line from linea aspera to oater condyle. Vastus Interjtus - Line from inner si lo of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle ; inner surface. Crureus — Anterior & outer sarfaces from anterior intertrochanteric Hue to within a few inches of condyles. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and describing the Quadriceps extensor femoris as a TrkepSy we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: - line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle; nearly whole of inner, anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur. Suhcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface < Psoas Magnus - Lesser trochanter. Iliacus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera in front of pectineus. Pedineus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera, & into the bone be- hind trochanter minor. Adductor Longus - Middle third of inner lip of linea aspera between vastus internus & ad- ductor magnus. Adductor Brems-JJp^er part of linea aspera & lower part of line from it to lesser tro- chanter below & behind pectineus. Adductor Magnus - Lower part of line from great trochanter to linea aspera, whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from it to inner condyle; by a strong tendon into tubercle at upper & back part of inner condyle. Biceps (Short Head) - Whole length of outer lip of linea aspera between adductor magnua & vastus externus, and from inferior external division of linea aspera to within two inches of outer condyle. Gluteus Maximus - Eough line from great trochanter to linea aspera. Gluteus Medius - Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. Gluteus Minimus - Anterior border of great trochanter. Pyriformis - Posterior part of upper border of great trochanter. Obturator Internus - Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. } Indireotly.byjoioingtendonofforegoing. Quadratus Femoris - Upper part of linea quadrati on back of great trochanter. Obturator Externus - Digital fossa. Gastrocnemius - Depressions at upper and back part of condyles, and lower part of the two inferior divisions of linea aspera. Plantaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera. - Anterior «& deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femur below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Semimembranosus - Posterior & upper part of outer condyle.92 MUSCULAIl ATTACHTS. of BS. of LOWER LIMB-Srd T. The muscular attached to the TIBIA — Are ten in number, and are attached as follows: - Tibialis Anticus - Outer tuberosity & upper two-thirds of outer surface of shaft Extensor Longiis Digitorum - Outer tuberosity. Sartorius - Upper part of inner surface of shaft covering tendons of gracilis & semiten-' dinosua. Gracilis - Upper part of inner surface of shaft above semitendinosus, and beneath sartorius. Semitendinosus - Upper part of inner surface of shaft below gracilis & beneath sartorius. Semimembranosus - Posterior part of inner tuberosity; groove on inner side of inner: tuberosity, Popliteus - Inner two-thirds of triangular surface on back of upper part of shaft. Salens - Middle third of inner border, and oblique line on posterior surface of shaft. Flexor Longus Digitorum - Posterior surface of shaft below oblique line & internally to attachment of tibialis posticus.; Tibialis Posticus - Posterior surface of shaft below oblique line & externally to attach- ment of flexor longus digitorumj PIBULA — Are nine in number, and are attached as follows; - Extensor Longus Digitorum - Upper three-fourths of anterior surface of shaft. Extensor Proprius Pollicis - Middle two-fourths of anterior surface of shaft internally to extensor longus digitorumi Peroneus Tertius - Lower fourth of anterior surface of shaft. Peroneus Longus - Head & upper two-thirds of outer surface & of anterior & posterior bor4 dersj Peroneus Brevis - Lower two-thirds of outer surface of shaft, passing upwards in a pointed process beneath peroneus longoAi Biceps ~ Outer side of head. Soleus - Back of head & upper third of posterior surface of shaft. Flexor Longus Pollicis - Lower two-thirds of posterior surface of shaft. Tibialis Posticus - Upper three-fourths of inner surface of shaft.THE HIP-JOINT. Is f^e typical euarthrodial articulation. ARTICULAR SURFACES: Acetabulum - Deep, hemispherical, further deepened in the fresh condition by the cotyloid & transverse ligaments. Looks downwards, outwards & forwards. Is divided into : Incomplete Articular Einq - Broadest above & behind, and deficient below & in front. Central Non-Akticular Depression - Continuous with cotyloid notch; lodges a mass of fat, which forms a bed for the round ligament. Head of Femur - Forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere, and, in the normal position of the limb, looks upwards, inwards & forwards. It presents a little below & behind its centre a small circular depression for attachment of ligamentum teres j near this depression the cartilage is thicker than elsewhere. LIGAMENTS -Are..- Capsular - Short & thick, especially above & in front; thinner & looser below & behind; some- times perforated beneath psoas. - It extends from Oufer lip of margin of acetabulum within two or three lines of the cotyloid ligament^ and^ opposite the cotyloid notch, from transverse ligament 6^ edge of obturator foramen to Anterior intertrochanteric line in front; base of neck offemtir, above; and, behind, to back of neck of femur, within about half an inch from lesser trochanter posterior intertrochanteric line. Ilio-Femoral or Accessory - A thickened band closely connected with front of capsule, which extends obliquely from Anterior inferior spine of ilium to Lower part of anterior intertrochanteric line. There are also several other accessory bands, viz., one on the outer side of the ilio-femoral termed the Ilio-trochanteric, one on the inner side of the ilio-femoral termed the Pubo-femoral; also a transverse band at the back of the joint. Round Ligament or Ligamentum Teres - Interarticular band about an inch long and of very variable strength & thickness, attached, on the one hand, to Depression a little below 6^ behind centre of head of femurs and on the other hand, dividing into two fasciculi, to Margins of cotyloid notch', the two fasciculi blending with the transverse ligament. It conveys a few vessels to head of femur. Cotyloid - Incomplete fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on section, presenting a base attached to margin of acetabulum, and a sharp free edge which closely embraces head of femur. It is thickest above & behind, and deficient opposite the cotyloid notch, where it is con. tinned into the transverse ligament. It consists of closely interlaced oblique fibres arising from the difi'erent points of the rim of the bone. Transverse - strong flattened band, a continuation of the foregoing, which extends from one side of the cotyloid notch to the other, transforming it into a complete foramen. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Invests whole of anterior surface & greater part of posterior sur. face of ueck of femur, cotyloid ligament, mass of fat at bottom of acetabulum, & ligamentum teres. - It communicates sometimes through a small opening in the capsule with the bursa beneath psoas & iliacus. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From obturator, sciatic & internal circumflex arteries, and from great sciatic, obturator & accessory obturator nerves. MOVEMENTS — -^I'e flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, rotation & circumduction. - Flexion is freer then extension: the thigh can be brought forwards till it touches the ab- domen, but it cannot be carried backwards to anything like the same extent. Flexion, in fact, is scarcely interfered with by the posterior part of the capsule, which is thin & loose ; exten- sion, on the contary, is soon arrested by the ilio-femoral ligament and by the anterior part of the capsule, which is short & thick. - Of the two lateral movements abduction is the freest; it is checked by the action of the pubo-femoral band. Adduction is checked mainly by the two limbs coming in contact, but also partly by the action of the ilio-trochanteric band. When however flexion & adduction are combined, so that one limb passes in front of the other, the double movement may be carried very far; it is at last arrested, by the action of the round ligament. The round liga- ment is also tensed when flexion & abduction are combined and carried to a considerable extent, and when the limb is rotated outwards. Rotation inwards is freer than rotation outwards (rotation being measured from the inter, mediate position which the foot normally occupies in standing) ; this is partly due to the greater laxity of the capsule behind than in front, and partly also to the direction forwards both of the head of the femur & of the acetabulum. Rotation takes place round an imaginary line extending from the head of the femur to the centre of the knee-joint. - Circumduction, as all other movements generally, is much less free in the hip than in the sholder-joint. The weight of the limb at the hip-joint is normally supported by atmospheric pressure : - In consequence of the complete exclusion of air from the joint through the accurate adapta- tion of the cotyloid & transverse ligaments to the head of the femur, the latter is firmly re- tained in the acetabulum even after all the soft parts around the joint have been divided; if air be allowed to penetrate into the ioint through a perforation of the acetabulum from withiD, tie limb will immediately drop.94 KNEE-JOINT-3rd Tablet. LIGAMENTS — Arethes Anterior Ligament or Ligamentum Patellae - strong flat band about three inches long, a continuation of tendon of rectus femoris, which extends from Apex of patella rough depression below its articular surface to Lower part of tubercle of tibia, being separated from upper part of the tubercle by a small bursa. — It is separated from the synovial membrane of the knee- joint by a considerable mass of adipose tissue. Posterior Ligament - Consists of three portions (Oruveilhier, Gray) : - Central Portion or Ligamentum Posticum Winslowii (The only portion described either by Winslow, or by Heath, Quain, & many modern Authors) - Broad flat band partly derived from tendon of semimembranosus, and which extends obliquely from Back part of inner tuberosity of tibia to Upper (Sr' back part of outer condyle of femur. Tavo Lateral Portions (Capsule Fibreuse des Condyles, Cruveilhier) - Closely connec- ted with tendons of gastrocnemius, popliteus, plantaris, and formed chiefly of vertical fibres extending from Condyles just above their articular surfaces to Back of head of tibia. - These lateral portions are looked upon by many anatoihista as a part of the capsular ligament. Internal Lateral Ligament - Broad flat band from Back part of inner tuberosity of femur to Inner tuberosity upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia* - Covers anterior portion of tendon of semimembranosus & inferior internal articular vessels, and is covered by tendons of sartorius, gracilis & semitendinosus, a bursa being interposed. External Lateral Ligament - Consists of two portions: - Long External Lateral Ligament - Strong rounded cord from Back part of outer tuberosity of femur to Outer part of head of fibula. - It is embraced by the two fasciculi into which the ten« don of the biceps divides, and beneath it pass tendon of popliteus & inferior external articular vessels. Short External Lateral Ligament - Accessory & somewhat variable bundle of fibres intimately blended with capsule, lying behind foregoing & on outer side of tendon of popliteus, and extending from Lower 6^ back part of outer tuberosity of femur to Apex of styloid process of fibula. Capsular Ligament - Lies in contact with the synovial membrane, and beneath the other ligaments, which it binds together. It is strengthened by expansions from the fascia lata and from the vasti, biceps, sartorius & semimembranosus; the ex- pansions from the fascia lata & the vasti forming, on either side of the patella, the so-called lateral patellar ligaments. It is attached to Femur just above the articular surfaces. Upper border ^ sides of patella. Margins of head of tibia semilunar fibro-cartilages. Crucial Ligaments-Two, project into the interior of the joint from behind, and cross ^ each other obliquely like the bars of an X. Anterior Crucial Ligament -Tlie most oblique & somewhat the smaller, from Inner part of rough triangular depression in front of spine of tibia between points of attach- ment of anterior extremities of both semilunar fibro-cartilages, and partly also from anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage itself to Inner 6^ back part of outer condyle of femur. Posterior Crucial Ligament - The thickest & strongest. Nearly vertically from Back part of rough depression behind spine of tibia, behind points of attachment of posterior extremities oj both semilunar fibro-cartilages, and partly from posterior extremity of external semilunar fibro-cartilage itself to Anterior outer part of inner condyle of femur dr* front of intercondyloid notch* Transverse & Coronary Ligaments - Ligamentum Mucosum & Ligamenta Alaria - A95 THE ANKLE-JOINT. Is a ginglymoid articulation^ ARTICULAR SURFACES: - The Trochlea - is formed by the upper articular surface & the two lateral facets of the astragalus. The upper articular surface is broadest in front, convex from before backwards, & slightly concave from side to side; its outer border is a little longer than the inner one, and is slightly curved inwards posteriorly. Of the two lateral facets, the external one is the largest. The Receiving Cavity - is formed by the under surface of the lower extremity of the tibia, and by the outer & inner surfaces respectively of the internal & external malleoli. The under surface of the lower extremity of the tibia is quadrilateral, broadest in front, concave from before backwards, and marked by a slight antero- posterior elevation separating two shallow lateral depressions. Of the articular facets of the two malleoli, that of the outer one is the largest. LIGAMENTS -Are:- Anterior & Posterior - "Very thin, especially the posterior one, and consisting merely of a few scattered fibres extending between the tibia & the astragalus at the mar- gin of their articular surfaces. - The fibres of the posterior ligament are mainly transverse, Internal Lateral - Consists of two layers: - SuPEEFiciAL Layer, or Deltoid Ligament - Strong triangular band, which radiates from Apex and anterior <Sr» posterior borders of internal malleolus to Inner part of scaphoid ^ inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; lesser process of os calcis ; and back part of inner surface of astragalus. Deep Layer (Oruveilhier, Gray) - Short thick vei-tical band from Apex of internal malleolus to Inner surface of astragalus below its articular facet. External Lateral - Consists of three separate fasciculi: - Anterior Fasciculus - Short, thick, nearly horizontally from Anterior border of external malleolus to Astragalus in front of its external articular facet. Middle Fasciculus - Longer, rounded, from Apex of external malleolus to Middle of outer surface of OS calcis. Posterior Fasciculus - The strongest, deeply situated ; nearly horizontally from Depression at inner 6^ back part of external malleolus to Astragalus behind its external articttlar facet as far as groove for flexor longus pollicis* SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE - Communicates with that of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and the termination of the anterior peroneal, and from the anterior tibial nerve. MOVEMENTS — Are flexion & extension with a slight amount of lateral mobility in the ex- tended position. - In the flexed position the wide anterior part of the trochlea lies in the narrow posterior part of the receiving cavity, and the posterior fibres of the lateral ligaments are on the stretch ; all lateral movement is then impossible. In the extended position the narrow posterior part of the trochlea lies in the wide anterior part of the receiving cavity, and, the lateral ligaments being relaxed (except in forced extension), a considerable amount of lateral movement is per- mitted: -Adduction is produced by the tibialis anticus, abduction by the peronei. In forced extension, however, the anterior fibres of the lateral .ligaments become tensed, and movement from side to side is again prohibited. - Forced extension £a accompanied by a slight amount of adduction in consequence of the outer border of the trochlea being a little longer than the inner one and slightly curved inwards posteriorly.FASCIiE & SYNOVIAL MEMBBANES of the TARSUS. FASCIiE — Are rather ligaments than fasciss proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior? Annular Ligament - Consists of two portions connected by a thin inter- vening layer oi lascia. Superior or Vertical Portion - Of considerable breadth & continuous super- iorly with deep fascia of leg. It extends from lower part of anterior border of tibia to lower part of anterior border of fibula. Inferior or Horizontal Portion. - Narrower and continuous anteriorly with deep fascia over dorsum of foot. It extends from upper surface of os calcis, in front of groove for interosseous calcanecastragaloid ligament, to internal malleolus & inner border of plantar fascia. Beneath anterior annular ligament pass from within outwards: - . , , ,, 1. - Tendon of tibialis anticus contained throughout in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of extensor proprius pollicis contained in a synovial sheath beneath the inferior or horizontal portion of the ligament only. 3. - Anterior tibial vessels 6^ nerve. , 4. - Tendons of extensor longus digitorum 6^ peroneus tertius enclosea throughout in one synovial sheath. 'fT^tPVYial AYiTinlar Ligament - Strong fibrous band continuous superiorly with internal Annular ^^IgamenL^.^^ ^^.^^^ inferiorly to innermost fibres of abductor pollicis. It extends obliquely from internal malleolus to inner surface ot os calcis. Beneath it pass from before backwards & outwards: - z. - Tendon of the tibialis posticus contained in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of the flexor longus digitorum contained in another synovial sheath. - Posterior tibial vessels nerve. . , . • 1 t. xi. 5. - Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis also contained in a synovial sheath, and situated at a considerable depth in a groove on posterior surface of astragalus. External Annular Ligament-Narrower & thinner band extending from exter- nal malleolus to outer surface of os calcis, and beneath which pass Tendons ofperonei both enclosed in one synovial sheath. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular «& tendinous. Articular-Six:- /. - Synovial membrane of posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. 2.-Synovial mejnbrane comtnon to the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid &* astragalo-scaphoid articulations. J. - Synovial membrane of calcaneo-culoid articulation. 4.-General synovial membrane of the tarsus comprised between the scaphoid & the three cuneiform bones, between the three cunei- form bones, between the external cuneiform bone & the cuboid, between the middle & external cuneiform bones on the one hand and the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones on the other, between the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones. - Sometimes there is a separate synovial membrane between the scaphoid & the cuboid, < - Svnovial membrane of the articulation between the cuboid and the 4th &* *^ jth metatarsal bones. 6 - Svnavial membrane of the articulation between the first cuneiform bone 6r» ^ , the first fnetatarsal. Tendinous - Vide Annular Ligaments.INGUINAL & FEMORAL HERNIA, AND PERINEUM.98 SCARPA'S TBIANGLE—1st Tablet, Is a broad triangular depression Situated at upper, inner, & front part of thigh; ^<?««(f^<f by Poupart's ligament, sartorius & adductor longus; Continued dowtiwards inwards into a superficial furrow, which marks position ol femoral Kfiesj in Hunter's cou&L Its floor is formed from without inwards by iliacus, psoas, pectineus, & small part of adductor brevis. It contains femoral vessels & anterior crural nerve, and the PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA — These parts are:- SKIN — Thin, freely movable, more or less studded with hairs at upper & inner part. SUPERFICIAL FASCIA — Divided into two layers by superficial vessels & nerves & inguinal lymphatic glands. Superficial Layer - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and is continuous with subcutaneous tissue of surrounding regions; is rather thinner & less loaded with fat towards lower part of triangle. Deep later - Thin & membranous. Adherent superiorly to Poupart's ligament. Stretches over saphenous opening under the name of "cribriform fascia," which fascia is per- forated by internal saphenous vein & hy numerous smaller blood & lymphatic vessels, and is attached firmly to outer margin of the opening, & slightly to the inner margin. Superficial Vessels & Nerves and Lympliatic Glands - Are the: InternalsapJienous vein; Stiperficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, superficial externalpnidic arteries with the corresponding veins, which latter open into internal saphenous near its termination; Ilio-inguinal, crural hra7ich of genito-crttral, <5)^ external cutaneous nerves. Lyjnp/iatic glands - Form two groups. Those of the Superior or abdominal group - Are the smaller, and are placed transversely near Poupart's ligament; - they receive lymphatics of penis, scrotum, perineum, lower part of abdomen & buttock; - those of the Inferior or fe77ioral group - Are the larger, and are vertically disposed round upper part of saphenous vein ; - they receive the lymphatics of lower limb. DEEP FASCIA or FASCIA LATA — Dense, fibrous. Presents the saphenous opening, for easier description of which it is usually divided into two portions, the iliac & the pubic. Iliac Portion - The thicker. Attached to crest of ilium, Poupart's ligament & spine of pubes. Is reflected downwards & outwards from this latter point, first bounding the superior angle, or stiperior comu of the opening, then forming its outer margin. This outer margin is the falciform process of Burns; its upper part is often called Hey's femoral ligatnent. Superiorly this margin overlies the sheath of the femoral vessels. Infer- iorly it becomes continuous with pubic portion of the fascia lata by a well defined curved border, which forms the inferior angle, or inferior comu of the opening. Pubic Portion - Much thinner. Is attached to pubic arch at upper and inner part of tliigh, and is continuous with iliac portion opposite lower cornu of saphenous opening. From this point it is prolonged upwards & outwards behind femoral sheath & in front of pectineus, and becomes attached to ilio-pectineal line. Saphenous Opening - is formed therefore by the slitting of the fascia lata & by the folding of the two sides of the slit one over the other. It is oval in shape, broad below, narrow above, 1^ inches long, h an inch wide. Its Outer Boundary & its Superior Angle or Cornu, - Which are prominent & well defined, are formed by iliac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament), which portion, as already stated, passes upwards & inwards in front of the femoral sheath, and becomes attached to Poupart's ligament & spine of pubes. -Its Inner Boundary - Depressed & less clearly defined, is formed by the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which portion, as ah'eady stated, passes upwards & outwards behind femoral sheath & in front of pectineus, and becomes attached to the ilio-pectineal line. - Its Inferior Angls or Cornu - Is formed by the junction of the iliac & pubic portions of the fascia lata just below opening of internal saphenous vein into the femoral FEMORAL SHEATH Vide next Tablet.99 SOAKPA'S TBIANGLE—2nd Tablet. FJSJVEOHAL SHEATH — is a thin tube of fascia divided by two delicate septa into three compartments, of which compartments the outermost contains the femoral artery & the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, the middle one the femoral vein, and the innermost, which is called the femoral canal, some fat «& a lymphatic gland. It is expanded superiorly, where it is continuous beneath Poupart's ligament with the fascige of the abdomen, the fascia transversalis & the fascia iliaca passing down to form it, the former in front of, and the latter behind, the femoral vessels. It is narrow inf eriorly, and blends about two inches below Poupart's ligament with the common areolar sheath of the femoral vessels. Anteriorly it is covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament), Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, and, opposite the saphenous opening, by the cribriform fascia. Posteriorly it rests upon the pubic portion of the fascia lata k the pectineus muscle. Its outer wall is vertical, lies in immediate contact with the artery, and is perforated by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. Its inner wall is oblique downwards & outwards from base of Gimbernat's ligament to inner surface of femoral vein. It is pierced superiorly, where it corresponds to the femoral canal, by numerous lymphatic vessels, and, inferiorly, or below the femoral canal, by the internal saphenous vein. FEMORAL CANAL — Is the innermost compartment of the femoral sheath. Or rather it is the nar- row interval comprised, at the upper part of the femoral sheath, between the inner wall of the sheath & the femoral vein; for it can hardly be said to exist as a distinct canal unless the wall of the sheath has been separated from the vein either by dissection or by the pressure of a hernia. - It contains a little fat & a lymphatic gland. It extends from the femoral ring to the upper part of saphenous opening, and measures from i to ^ an inch in length. It presents four walls & two openings. Anterior Wall - Formed by the fascia transversalis, and supported by Poupart's liga- ment, deep crural arch, & iliac portion of fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament); Posterior Wall - Formed by the fascia iliaca; rests upon pubic portion of fascia lata & pectineus muscle; Inner Wall - Formed by junction of fascise transversalis & iliaca; Outer Wall - Formed by the thin septum on inner side of femoral vein; Superior Opening, or Femoral Ring - Vide below. Inferior, or Saphenous Opening - Vide foregoing Tablet. Femoral E,ing - is the opening of the femoral canal into the abdomen. - Its boundaries are:« IN Front-Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch; Behind - Pubes covered by pectineus muscle, & pubic portion of fascia lata; Internally - Gimbernat's ligament -with the triangular ligament, the conjoined tendon, & the deep crural arch. Externally - Femoral vein & the thin septum between it & crural canal. Its relations are as follows: Femoral vein, on outer side; Epigastric artery, crossing upper & outer angle; Spertnatic cord or round ligatnent, pubic branch of epigastric above & in front; Obturator artery, on inner side, in those rare cases in which the artery presents the double abnormality of arising from the epigastric artery, and of arising from that artery at some distance from its root;-the obturator artery then passes first inwards above the ring, and then downwards into the pelvis behind Gimbernat's ligament It is nearly cu cular, about A an inch wide in the male, a little wider in the female, and is closc.l by the SEPTUM CRTJRALE (J. Cloquet) - A more or less condensed layer of superitoneal areolar tissue adherent to margins of femoral ring, and perforated by numerous apertures for lymphatics. Its upper surface is concave, and separated from the peritoneum by a less condensed layer of the same tissue and sometimes by a lymphatic gland; its under surface is convex & turned towards the femoral canal. The femoral canal & both its openings are constricted by extension & eversion, and relaxed by flexion & inversion of the tliigh. COVEEINaS OF FEMORAL HERNLA -Are:- From wrniiN outwards : - Peritoneum, subperitoneal areolar tissue (a portion of which, thickened & caused to assume a membranous appearance by the pressure of the hernia, was described by Sir A. Cooper under the name of fascia propria), septum crurale, crural sheath, cribriform fascia, superfcialfascia, skiji. From without inwards : - Skin, superficial fascia, cribriform fascia, crural sheath, septum crurale^ subperitoneal areolar tissice, peritoneum. The deep seated stricture is to be divided upwards & inwards, in which direction no important vessel is likely to be met with.100 PARTS CONCERNED in INGUINAL HERNIA—1st T. tMna the inguinal & scrotal regions. From the latter are derived the superficial coverings of large hernije, which superficial coverings are the same as those of the cord & testis. The former comprises the parts more directly concerned in the occurence of the protrusion, and in the siu-gical operations thereby required. SCROTAL REGION — vide " coverings of Cord & Testis." INGUINAL REGION — Bounded by Poupart's ligament, median line, horizontal line through anterior superior spine of ilium. Presents for examination the following strata, between which the inguinal canal is comprised. Skin - Thin, freely movable, depressed over Poupart's ligament. Superficial Fascia - Continuous with that of thigh, scrotum (dartos) & perineeum. Divided into superficial & deep layers by the superficial vessels & nerves. Superficial Layer - Thick, areolar, & more or less distended with fat. Passes over Poupart's ligament without adhering to it. Deep Later - Thin, membranous, contains no fat; adheres to Poupart's ligament. SUPERFICIAL VESSELS & NEKVES — Are: Arteries - Superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, superficial external pudic. Vezns - Corresponding ; open into internal saphenous. Lymphatics - Converge towards the Superior or Abdominal set of Inguinal Lymphatic Glands - Three or four, small, obliquely disposed along Poupart's ligament; receive lymphatics of penis, scrotum, perinseum, lower part of abdomen & buttock. Nerves - Ilio-inguinal, & hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastric. Aponeurosis of External Oblique - its fibres are oblique downwards & inwards, and form in succession Poupart's ligament, Gimbernat's ligament. Outer or Inferior pillar of external abdominal ring. Inner or Superior pillar. Superficial part of Linea Alba by decussating with their fellows, and perhaps also, after decussating, the Triangular ligament & the Intercolumnarfibres of opposite side (Vide Abdominal Aponeuroses). Continuous with this stratum of fibres is the Intercolumnar or external sperma- tic fascia, thin, closely adherent to margin of external abdominal ring, and prolonged downwards into a tubular process around cord and testis. Lower Part of Internal Oblique - Thin & pale. Its fibres, which arise from outer half of Poupart's ligament, pass inwards over spermatic cord (or round ligament), and then curve downwards behind it & behind external abdominal ring & Gimbernat's ligament, covering inner two-thirds of Hesselbach's triangle and forming part of conjoined tendon of internal oblique & transversalis, and, becoming tendinous, are inserted over the extent of about half an inch into crest of pubes in front of rectus and into Uio-pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament. The Cremaster Muscle - (Vide " Muscles of the Abdomen " & Coverings of the Testicle "\ is connected with lowest fibres of internal oblique, and occasionally also with some of the lowest fibres of transversalis. Lower Part of Transversalis - Also thin & pale, its fibres, which arise from outer third of Poupart's ligament, take the same course as preceding, and, also becoming tendinous, are inserted with them into crest of pubes and ilio-pectineal line to the extent of about an inch, completing conjoined tendon, Fascia Transversalis - Part of the general layer of fascia which lines the abdominal & pelvic cavities. In the inguinal region it is thick and dense, and presents the following points of interest: - AT CIRCUMFERENCE OF INTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING - It is prolonged into a tubular process of membrane, the infundibuliform fascia, which descends round the cord & testis, forming the fascia Jn-opria round the latter. AT LOWER PART OF REGION - It is, - In Front of Femoral Vessels - First thickened into an oblique band adherent to Poupart's ligament & termed the deep crural arch, and then continued downwards beneath Poupart's ligament in front of the vessels to form anterior wall of femoral sheath. Externally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to outer part of Poupart's ligament, and con- tinuous with fascia iliaca. Internally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to crest of pubes & ilio-pectineal line behind conjoined tendon & Gimbernat's ligament. That part of the fascia transversalis which lies above Poupart's ligament between outer border of rectus muscle & epigastric artery (Hesselbach's triangle) is interesting as being the part which forms a covering to direct inguinal hernia. Subperitonial Areolar Tissue - More or less distended with fat. Forms a bed in which the epigastric artery passes upwards & inwards along lower & inner boundaries of internal abdominal ring ; is con- tinued into a loose sheath round the cord. Peritoneum - Presents, before the superficial strata of the abdominal wall have been dissected, the two Ifiguinal Fossce, internal &' external, which fossse correspond respectively to the external & internal abdominal rings, and are separated by an oblique crescentic fold of variable -width & prominence. formed by the epigastric & obliterated hypogastric arteries.101 PARTS CONCERNED in INGUINAL HERNIA-2nd T. INGUINAL OR SPERMATIC CANAL Is an oblique passage 1| or 2 inches long situated a little above, and parallel to, inner half of Poupart's ligament. It gives passage to the spermatic cord or round ligament, and presents for examination its two openings or rings, and its boundaries or walls. External Abdominal Ring - Triangular & oblique downwards & inwards, about 1 inch long & J inch wide in male but rather smaller in female, bounded later- ally by external & internal pillars, above by the intercolumnar fibres, below by the crest of the pubes. Gives off from its margin the intercolumnar oi external spermatic fascia, which is prolonged into a tubular process around cord & testis (V. Abdominal Aponeuroses). Internal Abdominal Ring-A tubular opening in the fascia transversalis formed by the prolongation of this fascia round the cord & testis (infundibuliform fascia, fascia propria), oval with large diameter directed downwards & out- wards; situated midway between anterior superior spine of ilium & spine of pubes about ^ an inch above Poupart's ligament j bounded above & externally by the lower arched fibres of internal oblique & transversals, below & inter. nally by epigastric vessels. Boundaries or Walls - Formed by: In Front-Aponeurosis of along whole length; lowest fibres of internal oblique along outer third. Behind - Fascia transversalis along whole length j conjoined tendon of internal oblique & transversalis, & also triangular ligament along inner third. Above - Arched fibres of internal oblique & transversalis. Bklow -PouparfsUeament blended posteriorly with fascia transversalio. 14a102 SURGICAL ANATOMY of INGUINAL HERNIA. Principal points of interest are the coverings of the hernia, and the relations of the neck of the sac & of the seat of stricture. - For the rest see "Inguinal Hernia" among Tablets on Surgery. COVERINGS — DiflTer in the oblique & direct forms, and are slightly modified also in the congenital & infantile varieties of the former, and in the external & internal varieties of the latter. They are as follows:— OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA Of the Adult Fkom within Outwards : Peritoneum^ subserous areolar tissue^ infundibuliform fascia^ cremasteric fascia^ iritercolumnar fascia^ superficial fascia ^ skin. Fkom without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, ci emasteric fascia, infundibuliform fascia, subserous areolar tissue, peiitoneufti. Congenital Variety - Descends directly into tunica vaginalis through pouch of peritoneum which accompanies cord & testis into scrotum, and which has abnormally remained unclosed. Its coverings are the same as those of testicle: - Skin, dartos, intercohivmar fascia, cretnasteric fascia, fascia propria, tunica vaginalis refiexa. Infantile Variety - Descends into the still patent upper part of the imper- fectly closed pouch of peritoneum, and becomes more or less completely invested, especially in front, by the posterior part of the tunica vagin- alis reflexa. Its coverings are the same aa those of foregoing variety with two additional layers of peritoneum PIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA 1 Internal or Common Variety - (Protrudes through inner part of Hessel-i bach's triangle, on inner side of obliterated hypogastric artery). F&OU WITHIN Outwards : g^ Peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, fascia transversalis (the general f. tr., not the infundibuliform process) conjoined tendon (or not, since it is frequently ruptured instead of being pushed forwards) intercolumnar fascia^ superficial fascia ^ skin. From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, conjoined tendon (or not), fascia transversalis, subserous areolar tissue peritoneum. External Variety - (Protrudes through outer part of Hesselbach's triangle, on outer side of obliterated hypogastric artery, & externally to the conjoined tendon) - This exceptional form of inguinal hernia, passes through a considerable portion of the inguinal canal, and greatly re- sembles the oblique hernia both by presenting a certain degree of obliquity and by having very nearly the same coverings; the covering derived from the cremasteric fascia is alone rather less complete. RELATIONS OP NECK OP SAC & SEAT OP STRICTURE - The neck of the sac lies IN OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA - On outer side of epigastric artery and in front of spermatic cord, the elements of which ma^, however, be more or less scattered round the neck of the sac. IN DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA - On inner side of epigastric artery, in front & slightly on inner side of spermatic cord. On account of the uncertainty -of the diagnosis between the oblique & direct herniae it is an accepted rule in surgery to divide a deep seated stricture directly upwards from middle of upper margin of constricting ring, that is to say in the direction of the epigastric yessela.103 THE ISOHIO-REOTAL REGION. Corresponds to the portion of outlet of pelvis situated behind a line drawn from front part of ono tuber ischii to that of the other. It is bounded in front by above mentioned line; its apex is at point of coccyx; its sides are formed by tuberosities of ischium, great sacro-sciatio ligaments & great glutei muscles. It contains terminal portion of rectum surrounded by levatores ani and the internal & external sphincters, and on each side of which is the ischio-rectal fossa. It is triangular in form and depressed centrally towards anus, rouiad which aperture the integu- ment is thrown into numerous folds, and becomes continuous with mucous membrane of intestine. The skin is dark, but thicker & less movable than on peringeum proper, and contains a few hair-foUioles. The subcutaneous areolar tissue or superficial fascia hardly exists in centre of region, or over sphincter ani, which muscle is closely adherent to integument; but it is abundant laterally, where it is loaded with a large amount of fat, and where it dips into and fillg the ischio-rectal fossa. ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA Is a large excavation which sinks deeply into pelvis on either side of rectum, and which is filled with a considerable amount of loose fatty areolar tissue. • It is wide & triangular at its Base^ - Which corresponds to integument, but it is flattened from side to side and diminished in size superiorly. - Ita Inner Wall - is oblique downwards & inwards and formed by under surface of levator ani & by sphincter, which muscles are covered by anal fascia. Outer Wall - is vertical, and is formed by obturator internus covered by obturato" fascia j it presents the pudic vessels & nerve enclosed in a sheath of fascitt. It is bounded: Above - By junction of anal & obturator fascise. In Front - By junction of the same fasciae superiorly, and, inferiorly, by junction Oi the superficial & deep perinseal fasciaa behind transversus perinsei. Behind - By sacro-sciatio ligaments, coccygeus & the gluteus maximus. X The vessels & nerves it contains are the: Inferior hcemorrhoidal, in the centre; Pudic, in the outer wall; Superficialperin(zal, in front; A branch ofMh sacral nerve, and branches of sciatic artery- dr» small sciatic nerve^ behind; the branches of the latter nerve winding round lower border f, - • V of glut euB maximus. Above levator ani is the recto-vesioal layer of the pelvic faaoia (Vide Pelvio F.)104 THE MALE PEBIN^UM. Consists of the structures which close outlet of pelvis anteriorly to line drawn from front part of one tuber ischii to that of the other. It Is triangular in form, and is hounded laterally by rami of pubes & ischia and posteriorly by above men- tioned line. The width of its base (rather the smallest side of the triangle) is usually about 2| inches in the male adult, but it is sometimes considerably reduced; the operation of lateral lithotomy is then greatly impeded. The part is convex in middle line & slightly depressed laterally, and presents the following layers: Skin - Thin, dark, freely movable, marked by a prominent median raphi, studded with thin crisp hairs, and provided with numerous sebaceous follicles. Superficial Fascia - Divided into two layers. Superficial Layek - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and Is continuous with sub- cutaneous tissue of surrounding regions. Deep Layer - Thin & aponeurotic; lies in close contact with the muscles. On either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia externally to cnira penis ; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perinseum; and is prolonged beneath sphincter ani, becoming continuous behind transversus perincei <fe in front of rectum with inferior layer of deep perinajal fascia; In front it is unattached, & contfeiuous with dartos; Superiorly it gives off a median septum, which is rather deficient in front but pretty well marked behind. It binds down the superficial structures, and bounds inferiorly, and also, through its attach- ments, laterally & behind, a space, in which if urine be effused, this fluid will be directed forwards towards the scrotum, and the lower part of abdomen, and prevented from passing backwards towards anus, or outwards towards thighs. This layer is sometimes called the superficialperincealfascia. Superficial Genito-XJrinary Muscles - Are the: Erector Penis - Covering the crus; Accelerator TJrin^ or Ejaculator Seminis - Spreading out upon bulb of urethra; Transversus PERiNiEi - Separating perinseimi proper from ischio-rectal region. These muscles bound a triangular area, which is crossed superficially by the superficial perinseal vessels & nerve, behind which area passes transversely inwards the transverse perinseal artery, and through wluch area can be seen deeply the superficial layer of the deep perinseal fascia. In lateral lithotomy the knife is carried backwards & outwards through inner & back part of this area on left side. Inferior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia, or Triangular Ligament of Uretlira - Vide below. Membranous Portion of Uretlira, Compressor Urethree, & Deep Transversus Perinsel, Pudlc "Vessels & N., Vessels & N. of Bulb, Cowper's Glands & their Ducts - Vide these parta. Superior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia - The deep perinaeal fascia is a complex structure triangular in form, which supports the urethra, and closes anterior part of outlet of pelvis. On either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia internally to crura penis; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perineeum, and is continuous both with thin fascia on under surface of levator ani, and, behind transversus perinsei, with deep layer of superficial fascia of permseum ; In front it is attached to pubic arch & sub-publc ligament. It consists of two aponeurotic layers which are separated in the centre, but united laterally & behind; of these two layers the Anterior, Inferior, or Superficial Layer - The thickest. Is continued downwards & forwards upon anterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and is lost upon the bulb. This layer is perforated by the urethra about an Inch below symphysis pubis, by dorsal vein of penis in front of urethra, & by pudic vessels &* nerve on either side of the vein; it is the only layer that can properly be called the triangul&r ligament of the urethra, though the term is sometimes applied to both layers taken together. Posterior, Superior, or Deep Layer - Thinner. Is continued upwards & backwards round posterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and becomes continuous with pelvic fascia. Between these two layers are comprised the parts above mentioned, viz,, membranous por- tion of urethra with compressor urethrce d>» deep transversus perincei muscles, pudic vessels <^ nerve with vessels dj» n^rve of bulb, Cowper's glands &> their ducts. Above these parts are found in centre of perineaum the , I^OState Gland & Neck of Bladder, - and laterally the -.V > Anterior Part of Levator Ani & of Pelvic Fascia - The latter fascia Is continued posteriorly upon posterior part of levator ani, upon rectum & between it & bladder, and belongs as much . . _ to ischio-rectal re|{ion as to the perinwaL105 MUSCLES of the MALE PERINEUM. ANAL GROUP. Sphincter Ani - Tip & back of coccyx and superficial fascia in front of it. Central tendinous point of perinseum blending with accelerator urinst^ transversus perinaei & levator ani. - S. by inferior haemorrhoidal branch of pudic, & by anterior division of 4th sacral nerve. Levator Ani - Back of pubes close to symphysis, spine of ischium, and, between these two points, from a white band or thickening of the pelvic fascia which marks point of division of the latter fascia into obturator & recto-vesical layers. Side & apex of coccyx, median raph6 between coccyx and anus, side of lower part of rectum blending with sphincter ani, and decussates with its fellow in front of rectum and below & behind the prostate forming the so-called levator prostatae, which latter fasciculus is sometimes separated from the remainder of the muscle by a little areolar tissue. - S. by anterior division of 4th sacral n. CoCCygeUS - Spine of ischium & lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Side of coccyx and of lower piece of the sacrum. - S. by anterior divi- sions of 4th & 5th sacral nerves. Internal Sphincter - is a thickened circular band of the unstriped muscular fibres of the intestine. GENITO-URINARY GROUP. Accelerator Urinse, Ejaculator Seminis, or Bulbo-cavernous - Central ten. dinous point of peringeum & median raph6 in^front of it. Its postei'ior fibres are inserted into the triangular ligament; its middle fibres decussate above the bulb & corpus spongiosum which they encircle; its anterior fibres are partly inserted into the corpus cavernosum, and partly joined above it in a tendinous expansion which covers dorsal vessels & nerves of penis. - S. by superficial perinseal nerve. Erector Penis, or Ischio-CavernoUS - inner aspect of tuberosity of ischium behind crus penis and pubic arch on either side, back part of under surface of the crus. By a tendinous expansion into fore part of under & outer surfaces of crus penis. - S. by superficial perinaeal nerve. Transversus PerinSSi - inner & fore part of tuberosity of isobius?'. Central tendinous point of perinseum blonding with its fellow, the accel- erator urinse, & sphincter ani. - S. by superficial perinaeal nerve. Compressor, or Constrictor Urethrse - Upper part of pubic arch on either side of symphysis. Its fibres surround membranous portion of the urethra, decussating above & below it. - S. by pudic nerve. .Deep Transversus Perinsei - is a thin fasciculus which may or may not be separated from posterior fibres of foregoing muscle. It decussates with its fellow behind the bulb, and covers Cowper's gland.106 PDDIO ARTERY. The smaller of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery. Descends in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying to the inner side & a little in front of sciatic artery. With pudic nerve through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis on inner side of sciatic nerves & sciatic artery. "Winds round spine of ischium and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa below pudic nerve, being covered by obturator fascia, and lying at first 1| inches above lower extremity of tuber ischii, but approaching surface as it progresses. Pierces deep layer of deep perinaeal fascia, and ascends along pubic arch between the two layers of that fascia to nea^ symphysis pubis. Pierces superficial layer of deep perinaeal fascia, and divides into artery of corpus cavernosum and dors al artery of penis. Gives off Inferior Hemorrhoidal, Superficial Perinceal, Transverse Perincsal, & Artery of the Bull,107 PUDIO NERVE. From lower part of sacral plexus. With pudio artery through lower part of great saoro-soiatio foramen on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, where it gives off inferior hse riorrhoidal nerve. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa above pudic arteiyj both nerve & artery being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into periuseal nerve & dorsal nerve of the peni* (Vide p. 293).108 PARTS CONCERNED in LATERAL LITHOTOMY. Parts to be divided: - 1. Integut?tent, superficial fascia, inferior hcemorrhoidal vessels 6f nerve; 2. Posterior fibres of accelerator urince <2r» transversus perincsi muscles; probably also th transverse perinczal artery and superficialperinceal vessels ^ nerveM ' 3. Deep perinceal fascia, left deep transversus perincei muscle &> posterior fibres of com-; pressor urethrce ; the anterior fibres of levator ani;\ 4. Membranous prostatic portions of urethra, and part of prostate gland. \ Parts to b© avoided: 1. The bulb and its artery are endangered if incision is begun too far forwards; - if the artery arises further back than usual it is exposed to be divided / whatever care be taken; j 2. TJie rectum is endangered if incision is begun too far inwardsj j 3. Thepudic artery, if incision is carried too far outwards; 4. Entire breadth of prostate with prostatic veins dr' accessory pudic artery, if the latter exist, may be divided if incision into the deep parts is carried too far baok< wards, and the urine may then become infiltrated between the bladdeij & reotanb; JABDOMEN. I. PERITONEUM &c. 15110 MUSCLES of the ABDOMEN. iExternail Oblique - Outer surface & lower borders of the eight lower ribs, interdigita ting by four or five slips with serratus magnus & by three or four with latissimus dorsi. By fleshy fibres into anterior half of outer lip of crest of ilium, and aponeurosis forms in succession : \ Pouparfs ligament; Gimbernafs ligament; Outer pillar of external abdominal ring; Inner pillar of external abdominal ring : Superficial part of linea alba by decussating with its fellow, and perhaps also after decussating the Triangular ligament & intercolumnar fascia of opposite side. (Vide ab- dominal Aponeuroses) IntemSll Oblique - Outer half of Poupart's ligament j anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest of ilium j posterior layer of lumbar fascia. Lower border of cartilages of four lower ribs; linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. TranSVersalis - Outer third of Poupart's ligament; anterior three-fourths of inner lip of crest of the iliura; inner surface of caHilages of six lower ribs interdigita. ting with Diaphragm; by lumbar fascia from tips of spinous processes, tip & bases of transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebrae. Linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. Rectus Abdominis - By two heads from crest of pubes & ligamentous fibres cove symphysis. Cartilages of hth, Qth & 1th ribs & side of ensiform cartilage. This muscle is traversed by from 3 to 5 linece transversee, irregular ten^ dinous intersections, which interrupt the superficial fibres and adhere firmly anterior wall of sheath j these are situated opposite umbilicus, between umbilici & ensiform cartilage, and, frequently, one or two less complete ones, near i below umbilicus. Pyramidalis - Front of pubes & anterior pubic ligament. Linea alba midway between pubes & umbilicus. - Is often absent on one] or both sides. Cremaster - From middle of Poupart's ligament internally to lowest fibres of internal oblique & transversalis, and by a small pointed tendon from front of pubes & sheath of rectus, forming large external, and smaller & less constant internal bundles. Is the everted gubernaculum testis with a few additional fibres of the internal oblique, and sometimes of the transversalis, drawn or pushed down by the testicle during its descent (Curling). Quadratus Lumborum. Anterior Portion - Upper border of transverse processes of the two or three lower lumbar vertebrae. Inner half of lower border of last rib. Posterior Portion - Ilio-lumbar ligament, and for about 2 or 3 inches from poste- rior part of inner lip of crest of ilium. Apices of transverse processes of the 4 upper lumbar vertebrae, and inner half of lower border of last rib, N.—These muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, & ilio-inguinal nerves. The quadratus lumborum also receiroa branches from the anterior diyisions of the lumbar nenres.Ill PERITONEUM -1st Tablet, The peritoneum is by far the most; extensive & complex serous membrane of the body. To describe it completely it is neCsessary to trace: 1. - The two sacs separately in the vertical direction & in the middle line; 2. -The two sacs together in the veitiCal direction; 3. - The greater sac horizontally below the level of the umbilicus; 4. - The two sacs together horizontally above the level of the umbilicus, or through the foramen of Winslow; 5. - The ligaments formed by the peritoneum, and the omenta & mesenteries. Along the colon & upper part of the rectum the peritoneum is thrown into numerous pendu- lous processes filled with adipose tissue and termed the appendices epiploicaa. THE TWO SACS SEPARATELY. THE GREATER SAC. Starting from umbilicus the peritoneum passes { - Over anterior wall of abdomen & diaphragm; Over upper surface of liver, forming suspensory or falcifornt ligament &* upper layer of Over under surface of liver to transverse fissure; coronary ligament, To lesser curvature of stomach & first portion of duodenum, forming anterior layer Over anterior surface of stomach; ^ 'f^''''^ or gastro-hepatic omentum , Downwards in front of intestine, forming anterior layer of great omentum ; Upwards to transverse colon, forming posterior layer of great omentum ; Over under surface of transverse colon ; To spine, forming inferior layer of transverse meso-colon & covering under surface of transverse portion of duodenum ; (In the foetus, also occasionally in the child, and evei?, though very rarely in the adult, the layer of peritoneum which continues the posterior layer of the great omentum ascends in front of the transverse colon without adhering to it, or adhering to it but slightly, and then passes backwards to the spine a^ove the transverse 'neso-colon. The transverse meso-colon is then formed by the peritoneum again passing forwards from the spine to the transverse colon, sur- rounding the latter, artd for the secojid time passing backwards to the spine. The pouch between the transverse meso-colon & the posterior layer of the great omentum subsequently disappears by degrees, adhesions amounting finally to complete fusion of the two layers into one, beiug established between the two walls of the pouch before adult age is reached). Along superior mesenteric artery, round small intestine and back to spine, forming Downwards in front of spine & Aorta; mesentery; Over upper part of rectum, forming meso-recium; Forwards: In Male : - To bladder, forming posterior false ligaments of bladder 6>» recto- vesical pouch ; In Female : - To vagina & uterus, ^orrcm^^ posterior ligaments of uterus & recto- vaginal pouch', and then over uterus «& from uterus to bladder, forming anterior ligaments of uterus & utero-vesical pouch; Over bladder and from bladder to anterior wall of abdomen; Up to umbilicus, covering urachus & obliterated hypogastric a,rterie3. THE LESSER SAC, or SAC of the OMENTUM. Begins at the foramen of Winslow, Foramen of Winslow - is a constriction of the peritoneum bounded by; In Front - Lesser omentum containing first part of duodenum, hepatic artery, bile duct & portal vein j Behind - Right crus of diaphragm & inferior vena cava; Above - Lobus Spigelii of liver (or rather 1obns caudatus) } Below - Hepatic artery as it passes forwards from Aorta. From this point the peritoneum passes: - Downwards to lesser curvature of stomach, forming posterior layer of lesser or gastro- O^er posterior surface of stomach; hepatic omentum. Downwards in front of intestine and then upwards, forming the two internal layers of Over upper surface of transverse colon ; ^^^(^^ omentum ; To spine, forming upper layer of transverse meso-colon ; Over pancreas; To under surface of liver, forming inferior layer of coronary ligament, and over posterior part of under surface of liver to foromeu of Wissloi?.112 PEEIT0NEUM,-2nd Tablet. The two Sacs traced together in Vertical Direction. From transverse fissure of liver : - To lesser curvature of stomach, forming lesser orgastro-hepatic omentum; Separate to surround stomach; Descend iu front of intestine, forming the two anterior layers of great omentum; Ascend to transverse colon, forming the two posterior layers of great omentum ; Separate to surround transverse colon j Backwards to spine, forming transverse meso-colon; Separate: One descends and forms in succession the mesentery, meso-rectum, recto-vesical pouch (or recto-vaginal & utero-vesical pouches), etc. The other ascends in front of pancreas and passes over back part of under surface of liver to foramen of Winslow. (In the foetus, also occasionally in the child, and even, though very rarely, in the adult, the two posterior layers of the great omentum ascend in front of the transverse colon without adhering to it, or adhering to it bub slightly, and then pass backwards together to the spine above the transverse meso-colon. Here they separate: - One layer descends, and forms in succession the transverse meso-colon, the mesentery, meso-rectum, &c.; the other layer ascends, as above stated, over the pancreas & liver. The pouch between the transverse meso- colon & the great omentum subsequently disappears by degrees, adhesions amounting finally to complete fusion of the two layers into one, being estab- lished between the two walls of the pouch before adult age is reached. Greater Sac traced Horizontally below Level of Umbilicus. From median line of anterior wall of abdomen : - To right iliac fossa, where it forms 7neso-ccecum & lower part of ascendino meso-colon; Along lateral «& posterior walls of abdomen to spine, where it meets superior mesenterio To left iliac fossa, where it forms sigjnoid meso-colon ; vessels and forms mesentery; Along lateral & anterior walls of abdomen to median line. The two sacs traced together Horizontally above Level of Umbilicus or through Foramen of Winslow. From median line of anterior wall of abdomen : - Over anterior & lateral walls of abdomen & over right kidney; Through foramen of Winslow; Over front of pancreas; To spleen & then to back of stomach, forming posterior layer of gastro-splenic omentum; Over posterior surface of stomach; Back to foramen of Winslow, forming posterior layer of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum ; Reflected outwards in front of bile duct, hepatic artery & portal vein, forming anterior Over front of stomach ; ^^-^'^^ ""f or gastro-hepatic omentum i Round spleen & to under surface of diaphragm, forming anterior layer of gastro-splenic Over left kidney; omenttim suspensory ligament of spleen ; Over lateral & anterior walls of abdomen to median line.113 [?0NEUM.-3rd Tablet. IjIGAM£!NTS — Reflexions of peritoneum from walls of the abdomen or pelvis to viscera which are not portions of the intestinal canal. Belong to liver, bladder, uterus, & spleen. Ligaments of the Liver - Four: Suspensory or Falciform Ligament - Triangular or sickle-shaped fold reflected over obliterated umbilical vein or round ligament, and attached to upper surface of liver, diaphragm, & sheath of rectus. Coronary Ligament - Consists of two layers separated by a considerable inter- space, in which interspace the posterior border of the liver is connected to the diaphragm by firm areolar tissue. Its superior layer & the right half of its inferior layer are formed by greater bag j the left half of its inferior layer is formed by lesser bag. Lateral Ligaments - The two triangular & pointed extremities of coronary liga- ment. The left one is the longest & most distinct. Ligaments of the Bladder - Five in number, and termed false ligaments: Post. False Ligaments - The margins of recto-vesical pouch, in the male, of utero-vesical pouch, in the female. Contain obliterated hypogastrio arteries & ureters. Lateral False Ligaments - From sides of bladder to sides of pelvis. Sup. False Ligament - Over urachus and obliterated hypogastric arteries to umbilicus. Ligaments of the Uterus - Six: Broad Ligaments - From sides of uterus to sides of pelvis. Their free margin contains from before backwards round ligament. Fallopian tube, & ovary. Ant. & Post. Ligaments - The margins of utero-vesical & recto-vaginal pouches. Obliterated hypogastric arteries & ureters are contained in both these folds. Suspensory Ligament of the Spleen - Connects upper end of spleen to diaphragm. OIVEEjNTA — Folds proceeding from the stomach to other viscera. Three : Lesser or Gastro-hepatic Omentum - From transverse fissure of liver to lesser curvature of stomach. - Its right free border contains hepatic artery, bile duct & portal vein, and forms anterior boundary of foramen of Winslow. Great or Gastro-Colic Omentum - Consists of four layers, of which the most an- terior & the most posterior belong to greater bag, and the two internal to lesser bag. The two anterior layers descend from great curvature of stomach & spleen; the two posterior ascend to transverse colon (at least in adult; for arrangement in foetus see foregoing Tablets). Gastro-Splenic Omentum - Connects hilum of spleen to great cul de sac of stomach. Contains splenic vessels & vasa brevia, and is continuous in- feriorly with great omentum. ]V[£jS£jNT£jRI!EIS — Folds connecting greater part of intestine to posterior wall of abdomen. Seven: Mesentery Proper - its root extends from left side of 2nd lumbar vertebra to right sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Its free border contains the small intestine. It is continuous superiorly with inferior layer of transverse meso-colon, inferiorly with meso-caecum & ascending meso-colon. MeSO-CSeCUm - Usually peritoneum merely passes in front of caecum • und also merely in front of ascending colon, forming the Ascending Meso-colon. Transverse Meso-colon - Formed by junction behind transverse colon of the two ascending layers of the great omentum. Backwards from transverse colon to spine, where it meets transverse portion of duodenum, and becomes continuous with mesentery. Descending Meso-colon - Similar to ascending meso-colon. Sigmoid Meso-colon - Broad & well marked fold, which allows of considerable mobility on the part of sigmoid flexure, HesO-rectum - Surrounds almost completely first portion of rectum, and covers second portion in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, not at all below.114 SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. From front of aorta just below coeliac axis and behind splenic vein & pancreas. Forwards between pancreas & transverse portion of duodenum, and crosses front of the latter. Curves downwards to the right between layers of mesentery to right iliac fossa, and inoscu- lates with its own ileo-colio branch, . BRANCHES: Inferior PancreaticO-duodenal - Given off behind pancreas. Ascends along concave border of duodenum and joins with superior pancreatico- duodenal. Vasa intestini tenuis - Ten or twelve or more, and arise from convex side of artery. Descend between layers of mesentery and divide each of them into two branches, by junction of each of which with the neighbouring branch, a first series of arches is formed, to which 2nd, 3rd, 4th, <fc even 5th rapidly dimi- nishing tiers succeed, the terminal branches encircling the intestine and ramifying in its coats. IleO-COlic - The lowest branch from concavity. Between layers of mesentery towards ileo-colic valve, and divides into: Ascending Branch - To beginning of colon, and inosculates with colica dextra. Descending Branch - To end of ileum, and inosculates with termination of superior mesenteric, both branches forming arches as above. Colica dextra - From middle of concavity. Beneath peritoneum and in front of right kidney to middle of ascending colon, and divides into Ascending & Descending Branches, - Which inosculate respectively with the colica media & the ileo-colic, also forming arches as above. Colica media - From upper part of concavity. Between layers of transverse meso-colon towards middle of transverse colon, divi. ding as preceding arteries, and similarly inosculating with colica dextra & colica sinistra. INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. From left side of aorta one or two inches above bifurcation. Desceuds along left side of aorta and front of psoas towards left iliac fossa, and then, undej the name of superior hsemorrhoidal, curves to the right in front of left common iliac & jireter, and descends into the pelvis behind rectum, between layers of meso-rectum. BRANCHES: Colica sinistra - Beneath peritoneum and in front of left kidney to middle of descen- ding colon, and divides into Ascending & Descending Branches, - Which inosculate respectively with the colica media and the sigmoid artery, and supply intestine as above described. Sigmoid Artery - Across psoas to sigmoid flexure of colon, and divides into two branches, which inosculate with colica sinistra and sup. haemorrhoidal. Sx'perior hsemorrhoidal - The continuation of the inferior mesenteric. '^■^ Follows course above described, and divides opposite middle of sacrum iato two branches, which descend on each side of rectum to near its lower end, "^Pd ioiq with middle haemorrhoidal.115 CCELIAC AXIS. Short thick trunk, from front of aorta between pillars of diaphragm. Forwards above pancreas and between lobns Spigelii & right semilunar ganglion on the right, and left semilunar ganglion & cardiac end of stomach on the left, for about half an inch,' and divides into; GASTRIC, OR CORONARIA VENTRICULI - The smallest. Upwards and to the left to cardiac orifice of stomach. Along lesser curvature between layers of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum to pylorus, where inosculates with pyloric branch of hepatic; gives branches to both sur- faces of stomach. HEPATIC - Intermediate in size in the adult j the largest in the foetus. Upwards and to the right in front of foramen of Winslow, between the two layers and along right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, - ductus communis choledochus lying to the right, and the vena portee behind, - and divides in transverse fissure of liver into two branches, which accompany divisions of vena portse & hepatic duct to right & left lobes. Gives off branches Pyloric - To pylorus, and along lesser curvature, inosculating with gastric. Gastro-duodenalis - Large ? downwards behind duodenum, and divides into: Gastro-epiploica dextra - Along greater curvature of stomach between layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stomach and to omentum, and inosculates with gastro-epiploica sinistra. Pancreatico-duodenalis Superior - Descends between pancreas and duo- denum and anastomoses with inferior pancreatico-duodenalis, a branch of superior mesenteric. Cystic - Arises from right division. - Upwards to neck of gall bladder, and ramifies on its under surface, and between it & liver. SPLENIC - The largest. Tortuous course to the left behind upper border of pancreas and above splenic vein, and divides into numerous branches which enter hilum of spleen. - Gives off: Pancreaticse parvse - Numerous, small. Pancreatica magna - From left to right along posterior surface of pancreas. Vasa brevia - From five to seven in number; between layers of gastro-splenic omentum to splenic end of stomach. Gastro-epiploica sinistra-Along greater curvature of stomach between layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stomach & to omentum, and inosculating with gastro-epiploica dextra.116 THE STOMACH. la situated in the left hypochondriac, epigastric, & part of right hypochondriac regions, and presents: Allt. Surface - Looks upwards & forwards, and is in contact with under surtace of lirer, diaphragm, and anterior wall of abdomen opposite pit of stomach. Post. Surface - Directed downwards & backwards, and covered with peritoneum of lesser sac, by which sac it is separated from pancreas, great vessels of abdomen, crura of diaphragm & solar plexus. Rests upon transverse meso-colon. Great or Splenic End, Great Cul-de-sac or Fundus - Lies beneath the six lower left ribs, in contact with the spleen to which it is connected by the gastro-splenic omentum. Lesser or Pyloric End - in contact with anterior wall of abdomen, under surface of liver, & neck of gall-bladder. Greater Curvature - Lies above transverse colon, and gives attachment to great omentum. Lesser Curvature - Connected to transverse fissure of liver by lesser or gastro-hepatio omentum, and to under surface of diaphragm by gastro-phrenic ligament. Esophageal or Cardiac Opening - Funnel-shaped, and situated above & behind the pyloric opening. Pyloric Opening - Guarded by pylorus, and is more movable than the oesophageal. When the stomach is distended its greater curvature is elevated & carried forwards, while its anterior surface is turned upwards, and its posterior surface downwards*;117 THE SMALL INTESTINE. Is a slightly narrowing convoluted tube about 20 feet long, connected to the spine by the me. sentery in the greatest part of its extent. It is divided into: DUODENUM — Vide below. SMALL INTESTINE PROPER — Is rather arbitrarily divided, no defined limit existing, into: JEJUNUM — The upper two fifths. "Wider, thicker, & more vascular, and has its villi & valvulse conniventes more, and its Payer's patches less, numerous & developed. ILEUM — The lower three-fifths. Narrower, thinner, & less vascular, and has its villi & its valvulse conniventes less, and its Payer's patches more, numerous & developed. THE DUODENUM Is the shortest, widest & thickest part of the small intestine, and has no mesentery. Its length is from 8 to 10 inches, or about twelve finger breadths. - Into it open by a common orifice the common bile & pancreatic ducts, and the villi & valvulse conni- ventes are larger & more numerous immediately below this opening than in any other part of the small intestine. - Its course is: Upwards dr* to the right to under surface of liver <Sr» neck of gall-bladder: Downwards in front of right kidney ; Transversely to the left to left side of 2nd lumbar vertebra, where it is crossed by superior mesenteric artery, and where mesentery begins. RELATIONS: First, or Ascending Portion - Above - Under surface of liver & neck of gall-bladder j Behind - Eight border of lesser omentum, hepatic artery, bile duct, portal vein. Second; or Descending Portion - In Fkont - Hepatic flexure of colon j Behind - Right kidney; On Inner Side - Head of pancreas, ductus communis choledochua, pan- creatioo-duoaenal arteries. Third, or Transverse Portion - In Fkont - Descending layer of transverse meso-colon, superior mesen- teric vessels. Behind - Aorta, inferior vena cava, crura of diaphragm j Above - Lower border of pancreas, superior mesenteric vessels. 16118 THE LARGE INTESTINE. About 6 feet long, sacculated. Diminishes in size till just above anus, where it is considerably enlarged. Consists of ccecum, ascending, transverse, dr» descending colon, sigmoid flexure & rectum, C^CUM or CAPUT CiECUM COLI — The cul.de-sac situated below entrance of small intestine into the large; is the most dilated part of colon. Lies in right iliac fossa, where it is retained by the peritoneum which covers its front & sides, and sometimes surrounds it entirely in a distinct fold, the meso-csecum. Presents: Appendix Vermiformis - A tubular prolosgation from 2 to 6 inches long & of about the diameter of a goose-quill connected with lower & back part of caecum; usually directed upwards & inwards behind it, and retained by a fold of peri- toneum. Ilio-Csecal or Ilio-Colic Valve, or Valve of Bauhin - Situated at entrance of small intestine into the large at upper inner & back part of caecum. Formed by two crescentic folds of the mucous & submucous coats & circular mus- cular fibres of the gut, which folds are separated by a narrow antero-posterior aperture. The upper fold is nearly horizontal, and is the smallest. The lower fold is oblique, and is the largest. At their points of coalescence they are continued upon wall of gut into two pro- minent folds, the frcena. Their surface turned towards the small intestine is covered with villi, the other surface has no villi, and is quite smooth. ASCENDING COLON - Upwards to under surface of liver on right side of gall-bladder, where it curves to the left, forming hepatic flexure. Bound down against quadratus lumborum & right kidney by peritoneum which covers its front & sides, and sometimes encloses it in a distinct fold, the ascending meso-colon. TRANSVERSE COLON or ARCH of the COLON - Curves forwards & to the left between confines of umbilical & epigastric regions to left hypochondrium, where it bends downwards, forming splenic flexure. Is very movable, being comprised between the two ascending layers of great omentum, which layers join again behind it to form transverse meso-colon. Its relations are: Above - Liver, gall-bladder, great curvature of stomach, lower end of spleen; Jn Front - Great omentum, anterior wall of abdomen; Behind - Transverse meso-colon, 3rd portion of duodenum, DESCENDING COLON - Downwards in front of left crus of diaphragm, left kidney & quadratus lumborum to left iliac fossa, where it ends in sigmoid flexure. Covered by peritoneum in front & at sides, sometimes entirely surrounded by a distinct fold, the descending meso-colon. SIGMOID FLEXURE — Commences at crest of ilium, ascends to right or left, descends, and ends in rectum opposite left Bacro>iliao synchondrosis. Freely movable, being retained by only A loose fold of peritoueaxui the sigmoid ineBO*ooloii»119 THE PANCREAS. Lies behind stomach & lesser bag of peritoneum opposite first lumbar vertebra. It is long, narrow, flattened from before backwards, & of a reddish cream-colour, and presents» Head, or Right Enlarged Extremity - Curves downwards, and is embraced by con. cavity of duodenum, the ductus communis choledochus & the pancreatico- duodenal arteries lying between the two organs, the former behind, the latter in front. - The lower & back part of the head (sometimes detached from the remainder of the gland, and then called the lesser pancreas), passes to the left behind superior mesenteric vessels, forming the posterior wall of an incomplete canal in which these vessels are enclosed. Body, or Central Flattened Portion - Presents: Anterior Surpace - Convex, covered by peritoneum belonging to lesser bag, & by posterior surface of stomach. Posterior Surface - Coscave; in relation with: Pillars of diaphragm^ left quadratus lumborum, left kidney &' left suprarenal capsule ; Aortuy vena cava^ mesenteric vessels^ commencement of vena portcs, (2r» left renal vessels. Upper Border - Thick, corresponds to coeliac axis, and is deeply grooved for splenis artery & vein. Lower Border - Thinner, separated from transverse portion of duodenum by superior mesenteric vessels. Lesser End, or Tail -I^ies a little higher than the head, in contact with left kidney & left suprarenal capsule, & lower & back part of spleen, to which latter organ it is-slightly adherent, PANCREATIC DUCT, or CANAL OF WIRSUNG - Buns from left to righb through whole length of the gland, lying in the vicinity of its anterior surface & lower border. In the head it curves downwards on left side of ductus com- munis choledochus. Both ducts then perforate together the muscular coat of the intestine, run side by side for about three-quarters of an inch beneath mucous membrane, and open by a common orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four inches from pylorus. The duct from the lesser pancreas opens into canal of Wirsung near its termination, or, sometimes, forms a supplementary canal which opens separately into duodenum an inch or more above canal of Wirsung. STHiXJCTUiRHi — The pancreas is a racemose or conglomerate gland and is very similar to the salivary glands, excepting that its tissue is somewhat softer & looser. Yessels & .Nerves - Arteries from the splenic and superior & inferior pancreatico- duodenal. - Veins open into the splenic & mesenteric. - Lymphatics ojaen into the lumbar glands. - Nerves are from solar plexus.120 THE SPLEEN. Is compressed & oval in form, soft, brittle, & of a dark reddisb-blne colour, and lies in left hypochondrium, embracing cardiac end of stomach, to which it is connected by gastro- splenic omentum. It presents : Outer Surface - Convex, in relation with under surface of diaphragm; corresponds to 9th, 10th, & 11th ribs. Inner Surface -- Concave. Presents a little behind its middle the hilum, a vertical fissure pierced by several irregular foramina for the blood-vessels, lymphatics & nerves, and is related with: In Front - Great cul-de-sac of stomach; Behind - Left crus of diaphragm, left suprarenal capsule & usually a process ot lesser sac of peritoneum J Below - Tail of pancreas. Upper Extremity - Thick, rounded, attached to diaphragm by suspensory ligament. Lower Extremity - Pointed, in relation with splenic flexure of colon. Anterior.Border - Thin, frequently notched. Posterior Border - Thick, rounded, lies on left kidney.121 THE EXTERNAL BILE DUCTS. Hepatic Duct - Formed in transverse fissure by junction of the two large excretory ducts from right & left lobea Downwards & to the right between the two layers of lesser or gastro-hepatio omentum & behind first portion of duodenum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portse behind, and joins with cystic duct to form ductus com- munis choledochus. Is about an inch & a half long, and is intermediate in size between cystic duct & ductus communis choledochus. GALL-BLADDER — Pear-shaped, three or four inches long, an inch wide at largest part; holds from 8 to 12 drachms. Obliquely directed downwards, forwards, & to the right, & lies in a fissure or fossa on under surface of liver between lobus quadratus & right lobe proper. Presents: Under Sukface - Covered by peritoneum, which in mosc cases merely passes over it; in relation with hepatic flexure of colon & first part of duodenum ; some- times with pyloric end of stomach. - Occasionally the peritoneum entirely surrounds the gall-bladder, which latter is then connected to the liver by a small mesentery. Upper Surface - Connected to the liver by firm areolar tissue & vessels; sometimes by a small mesentery. Anterior Enlarged Extremity, or Fundus - Covered by peritoneum; touches ab- dominal parietes opposite tip of 10th costal cartilage. Posterior Constricted Extremity, or Neck - Forms two turns upon itself like an italicy) and is continued into the cystic duct. Cystic Duct - Downwards & to the left between the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum and behind ascending portion of duodenum, having the cystic artery on the left & the vena portas behind, and joins with hepatic duct to form ductus communis choledochus. Is about an inch long, and is rather narrower than the hepatic duct. Ductus Communis Choledochus - Downwards & slightly to the left between the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatio omentum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portae behind. Between head of pancreas & descending portion of duodenum on right side of pancreatic duct, and with pancreatico-duodenal arteries which lie slightly in front. Perforates muscular coat of intestine in common with the latter duct. Both ducts then run together for about three-quarters of an inch between coats of intestine, and, becoming slightly constricted, open by a common & promi=> nent oi'ifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a littlo below its middle, about three or four inches from pylorus. - The common bilo duct is about three inches long.122 THE LIVER. The largest gland in the body, of a dnll reddish brown colour, situated in right hypochondriac, epigastric & part of left hypochondriac regions. - Its transverse & antero-posterior dia- meters, and its greatest thickness are usually about twelve, six, & three inches respectively. It weighs from three to four pounds. - Presents : UPPER SURFACE — Smooth, convex, divided into right, largest, & most convex lobe, and left lobe, smaller & flatter, by suspensory or falciform ligament. In relation with under surface of diaphragm, & the six or seven lower ribs, and to a slight extent in the upright posture & during deep inspirations, especially in women & children, with anterior wall of abdomen. UNDER SURFACE — Vide next Tablet. ANTERIOR BORDER — Thin, inclined downwards & to the right, notched deeply opposite round & falciform ligaments, and usually more slightly so opposite fundus of gall-bladder. In recumbent posture & during expiration it usually corresponds to lower border of ribs & costal cartilages, in upright posture & during deep inspira- tions, especially in women & children, it descends a little lower. POSTERIOR BORDER — Thick & rounded, especially to the right, in relation with pillars & under surface of diaphragm, to which it is connected by coronary ligament; and with aorta & inferior vena cava, for passage of which latter vessel it is deeply grooved & sometimes channelled. RIGHT EXTREMITY — Thick & rounded, attached to diaphragm by right lateral ligament; descends lower than the left. LEFT EXTREMITY — Thin & flattened, attached to diaphragm by left lateral liga- ment J ascends higher than the right. LIGAMENTS OP THE LIVER — Five inn amber: Round Ligament - The obliterated remains of umbilical vein & ductus venosus. Ascends in free margin of falciform ligament from umbilicus to longitudinal fissure on under surface of liver, where it joins inferior vena cava. Falciform or Suspensory Ligament \ Coronary Ligament • • • •/Formed by peritoneum.-Vide Peritoneum. Lateral or Triangular Ligaments .3123 UNDER SURFACE of the LIVER. Concave uneven, looks downwards & backwards, and covers stomach, duodenum, hepatic flexure of colon, right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. Presents four fissures, one of which is divided into two, and two primary lobes, of which the right one, or right lobe proper, presents three sub-lobes or lobules. FISSURES — A-re the: Longitudinal Fissure - Separates right & left lobes, and extends from deep notch on anterior bqrder as far backwards as posterior border. It is divided into: Umbilical Fissure - Its anterior & deepest two-thirds, situated in front of trans- verse fissure; contains umbilical vein in the foetus, and its obliterated remains in the adult. Is often bridged over posteriorly by a band of liver substance, the pons hepaticus. Fissure for the Ductus Venosus - Its posterior & shallowest third j contains the duo- tus venosus in the foetus, & its obliterated remains in the adult. Transverse Fissure - Extends transversely to the right from longitudinal fissure for about two inches, lying nearer to posterior than to anterior border. - It transmits hepatic artery, bile duct, portal vein, lymphatics & nerves, the hepatic artery lying to the left & in front, the bile duct to the right & in front, and the portal vein behind. Fissure or Fossa of the Gall-Bladder - Shallow, broadest in front, nearly parallel to longitudinal fissure on right side of which it is situated, and extends from an- terior border to near right extremity of transverse fissure. Fissure for the Inf. Vena Cava - Extends from behind lobus caudatus to poster- ior border of liver, where it joins with fissure for ductus venosus. Is often trans- formed into a complete foramen, by a prolongation of the lobus Spigelii. It gives exit to the hepatic veins which here open into the inferior cava. LOBES — -A-re the: Right Lobe - The largest. Presents the three last named fissures, and also, further to the right, the impressio colica for hepatic flexure of colon, behind which is the im.' pressio renalis for right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. - It also presents the three following sub-lobes: LoBUS Quadratus -• Situated in front of transverse fissure, between fissure for the gall-bladder & umbilical fissure j quadrilateral & broadest from before backwards. Lobus Spigelii - Situated behind transverse fissure, between fissure for ductus venosus, & fissure for inferior vena cava; more prominent than former, but less regular in shape. Projects into lesser sac of peritoneum. Lobus Caudatus - A prominent ridge extending from front part of lobus Spigelii to under surface of right lobe proper; forms anterior boundary of fissure for inferior vena cava & upper boundary of foramen of Winslow. Left Lobe - is smaller than the right. Its under surface rests upon th© stomach, and sometimes extends as far as upper border of spleen.124 PORTAL SYSTEM. PORTAL TRUNK — Formed by junction of splenic* superior mesenteric veins behind upper border of head of pancreas. Upwards & to the right in right or free border of lesser or gastro-hepatio omentum, lying between & behind hepatic artery & bile duct, in front of foramen of Winslow. Expands near right extremity of transverse fissure of liver into the sinus of the portal vein, and divides into right branch, the larger & shorter, and left branch, the smaller & longer; which branches ramify in portal canals with branches of hepatio artery, bile ducts, deep lymphatics, & nerves. (For distribution of portal vein in the liver and its continuation into the hepatic veins, vide Structure of Liver). - Receives veins: Gastric Cystic - The former runs from cardia to pylorus; the latter frequently opens into right branch of portal vein. Splenic Vein - Arises by five or six branches of considerable size, which emerge from bilum of spleen and join to form one large trunk, which trunk takes a straight course from left to right behind upper border of pancreas, below splenic artery, and, at upper border of right extremity or head of pancreas, joins with superior mesenteric to form the portal trunk. Receives veins: Inferior Mesenteric (Vide below), Vasa Brevia, Left Gastro-Epiploie^ Pancreatic dr' Pancreatico-Duodenal, Superior JVCesenteric Vein - Arises from area of distribution of superior mesenteric artery, (small intestine, coecum, ascending portion &• right half of trans- verse portion of colon), its branches corresponding to those of the artery. Its trunk lies to the right & a little in front of the artery, and passes with it in front of transvei'se portion of duodenum & behind pancreas, and, at upper border of head of pancreas, joins with splenic vein to form the portal trunk. Inferior Mesenteric Vein - Arises from area of distribution of inferior mesen- teric arteiy (upper part of rectum, sigmoid flexure, descending portion & loft half of transverse portion of colon), - its superior hsemorrhoidal branch anastomosing with the middle & inferior hsemor- rhoidal branches of the internal iliac & pudic, and thus establishing an important communication between the portal «& general venous systems, which communication is supplemented, according to Kiernan, by communications between the right renal vein & the veina of the ascending colon (fc duodenum, and by communications in the coronary ligament of the liver between the phrenic & the superficial branches of the portal vein. Ascends beneath peritoneum and behind transverse portion of duodenum & pancreas, aud opens into splenicb The portal system contains no valves.125 ASCENDING VENOUS TRUNKS. COMMON ILIAC VEINS — Formed by junction of external & internal iliacs oppo- site sacro-vertebral articulation (some authors say opposite sacro-iliac synchondr- osis). Obliquely upwards, the left one more obliquely than the rif^ht, to a little to the right side of intervertebral disc between 4ith & 5fch lumbar vertebrae, where they unite to form the inferior cava. RIGHT COMMON ILIAC — Shorter & less oblique than the left one j lies at first behind & then on outer side of its artery. Receives Tributary Branclies: - I/W'Zum^ar, & sometimes Lateral Sacral. LEFT COMMON ILIAC — Longer & nvore oblique than the right one; lies at first on inner side of its artery, and then passes behind artery of right side. Receives Tributary Brandies: - IHo-Lumbart & sometimes the Lateral 6^ Middle Sacral. - The common iliao veins have no valves. INFERIOR VENA CAVA — Formed by junction of the two common iliacs a lui;le to the right side of intervertebral disc between 4th & 5th lumbar vertebrae. Along right side of aorta in front of right lumbar & renal arteries & right crus of dia- phragm, passing in succession behind attached border of mesentery, transverse por- tion of duodenum, pancreas, & portal trunk. Through groove or canal in posterior border of liver, where the hepatic veins open into it. Perforates central or cordiform tendon of diaphragm between its middle & right leaflets. inters fibrous bag of pericardium, becomes invested anteriorly by serous layer of same sac, and opens into lower & back part of right auricle near Interauricular septum, its opening being guarded by the Eustachian valve. Receives Tributary Branclies: - Middle Sacral, Ltcmbar, Renal, Hepatic, Right Sper- matiCi Suprarenal, dr* Inferior Phrenic, the middle sacral sometimea opening into the left common iliaa. 37126 ABDOMINAL AORTA. Curves slightly backwards & to the left from aortic opening in front of 12th dors vertebra to a little to the left of 4th lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the two oommou iliacs. RELATIONS In Feont - Lesser omentum, stomach, coeliac axis, solar plexuy; Splenic vein, pancreas, left renal vein; Transverse portion of duodenum, mesentery, aortic plexus. Behind - Vertebrae, left lumbar veins, i eceptaculum chyli, thoracic daot. To THE Right-Inferior vena cava, vena azygos major, rcQeptaculum chyli, thoracic duct, right semilunar ganglion. To THE Left - Cord of sympathetic, left semilunar ganglion. BRANCHES — Phrenic, Cceliac Axis, Superior Mesenteric; Suprarenal, Renal, Spermatic; Inferior Mesenteric, Lumbar, & Sacra-Media.127 BRANCHES of the ABDOMINAL AORTA. Inferior Phrenic - Two. Arise separately or by a common trunk either trom coeliao axis,or from aorta immediately above the latter. Upwards and outwards behind oesophagus on left side, behind vena cava on risfht side, to central tendon of diaphragm, and divide into; Internal Branch - To front part of diaphragm communicating with its fellow & with musculo-phrenio External Branch - To side of thorax, communicating with intercostals. Gives off small stiperior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule. Coeliac Axis - Yid j p. 115. Superior Mesenteric - "Vide p. 114. Suprarenal - Two. Small in adult, but in foetus as large as renal. To suprarenal capsuleSj anastomosing with capsular branches of phrenic & renal. Henal or Emulgent - Two. Large, from sides of aorta just below superior mesenteric. Nearly horizontally outwards behind renal vein, and divide, each of them, into four or five branches, which penetrate into hilum of kidney in front of pelvis. - Give ofl small injerior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule, and twigs to pelvis & ureter. Right artery passes behind inf. vena cava, is longer than left one, and lies a little lower. Renal arteries vary considerably in coincidence with variations of kidneys in situation, size, and number. - They may arise from front of aorta near its bifurcation, or from common or internal iliac; - they may divide into branches sooner than usual, or may be replaced by several arteries which arise separately from side of aorta J - one may be wanting, or there may be a supernumerary artery corres- ponding to a supernumerary kidney. Spermatic - Two; long & slender. From front of aorta a little below renal. Downwards and outwards beneath peritoneum to brim of pelvis crossing psoas & ureter and, on right side, inferior vena cava. Forwards in front of external iliac artery to internal abdominal ring, being crossed on right side by termination ot ileum, on left side by sigmoid flexure of colon. Through inguinal canal and down to back of testis with other constituents of spermatic cord, becoming tortuous near its termination, and giving twigs to epididymis, which twigs join with artery of vas deferens j pierces tunica albuginea to sub- stance of testis. t>V"ARIAN ARTERY - In female. Same course down to brim of pelvis, then passes down. wards & inwards to attached margin of ovary between layers of broad ligament of uterus; joins with uterine on side of uterus; gives branches to Fallopian tube and twigs to round ligament, which twigs are sometimes contuiued through in- gu nal canal to integument of labium & groin. Both these arteries are short during first part of foetal life, when testes & ovaries lie just below kidneys, and become elongated only when these organs descend into pelvis. Inferior Mesenteric - "Vide p. 144 Lumbar - Usually four; from back of aorta. Round bodies of lunbar vertebrae beneath psoas, the two upper ones passing also beneath pillars of diaphragm, and those of right side beneath inferior vena cava ; and divide between transverse processes into: Abdominal Branch - Behind quadratus lumborum (the lowest one sometimes in front), and between abdominal muscles, joining with epigastric, internal mammary, intercostals, ilio-lumbar & circumflex iliac. Dorsal Branch - Sends a spinal branch through intervertebral foramen to cauda equina & posterior surface of bodies of vertebrae, and passes backwards to muscles & integument of back. Sacra Media - Small; from back of aorta at point of bifurcation. Descends upon middle ofsac um, anastomosing with both lateral sacraL128 COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. Downwards & outwards from bifarcatioa of aorta a little to the left of 4th lumbar vertebra to opposite sacro-vertebral articulation (some Authors say opposite sacro-iliao Bynchondrosis), where it divides into external & internal iliacs. Is about two inches long, the right artery being slightly the longer. RELATIONS : Right Side: In Front - Small intestine, peritoneum, eympathetio nerve, nretei near bifurcation. Behind - Both common iliac veins. Outer Side - Eight common iliac vein, inferior vena cava, psoas muscle. Left Side: In Fkont - Same, plus rectum & superior haemorrhoidal artery, .! Outer Side - Psoas. Left Common Iliac Vein - Lies at first on inner side of its artery, and then passes beneath artery of right side. Right Common Iliac Vein - Lies at first behind its artery, and then on its outer side. BRANCHES — Very small & not named, sometimes Renal & Ilio-lumbar. \129 EXTERNAL ILIAO ARTERY, Downwards & outwards along inner border of psoas, extending from bifurcation of com. mon iliac opposite sacro-vertebral articulation (some Authors say opposite sacro-iliao synchondrosis) to beneath Poupart's lis^ament midway between anterior superior . spine of ilium & symphysis pubis, where it becomes femoral artery. Rather lareer in the adult than internal iliac ; half the size in the foetus, RELATIONS:- In Front - Intestine, peritoneum, thin layer of fascia derived from the iliac; spermatic vessels & nerves, genital branch of genito- crural nerve, circumflex iliac vein, sometimes ureter near origin. Behind on Right Side - External iliac vein, which lies on inner side at femoral arch. On Inner Side - External iliac vein, & vas deferens. On Outer Side - Iliac fascia & psoas muscle. Left External Iliac Vein lies altogether on inner side of its artery. Right External Iliac Vein lies at first on inner side of its artery, and then behind it. BRANCHES: — Epigastric - Somewhat the larger. From front of external iliac a few lines above Poupart's ligament. Descends slightly to reach level of the ligament. Ascends obliquely upwards & inwards in subperitoneal areolar tissue, passing behind inguinal canal & along lower & inner boundaries of internal abdo- minal ring, and hooking round vas deferens in the male, round round ligament in the female. Pierces sheath of rectus between its middle & lower thirds, and ascends behind the muscle, dividing into muscular & cutaneous branches, which anasto- niose with lower intercostal?, lumbar, superior epigastric of internal mammary, & superficial epigastric of femoral. - Gives off branches • Cremasteric - Small, descends upon spermatic cord and supplies cremaster; anastomoses with spermatic. Pubic - Usually small; descends behind pubes on inner side of femoral ring, and anastomoses with obturator. Sometimes greatly increased in size so as to form the origin, or one of the origins, of the obturator artery, which artery is then said to arise from the epigastric (Vide obturator artery). - The two epigastric veins unite into one trunk, which opens into the external iliac. Circumflex Iliac - Somewhat the smaller. From outer side of external iliac near Poupart's ligament. Upwards & outwards behind the ligament, and along anterior half of inner lip of crest of ilium, joining with gluteal. Pierces transversalis, runs backwards between it & the internal oblique, and joins with ilio-lumbar. Gives off numerous muscular branches; one, rather lar^e, ascends from anterior superior spine of ilium, and joins with the epigastric & lumbar. - The two circumfiex iliac veins unite into one trunk, which crosses the external iliac artery and opens into the corresponding v.130 LUMBAR PLEXUS. Formed by anterior divisions of four upper lumbar nerves, and situated in substance of psoas, in front of transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrso. Narrow above, where it usually receives a small branch from last dorsal nerve ; broad below, where it is joined to the sacral plexus by a branch from 4th lumbar nerve & by lumbo. sacral nerve or cord, Its arrangment is as follows* - (Vide Quain's diagram). 1st Lumbar Nerve - Gives oS: Ilio-hypogastriCi Ilio-inguinaly Small part of Genito-crural. Communicating branch to 2nd Lumbar. 2nd Lumbar Nerve - Completes Genito-crural, - and gives off Greater fart of External Cutaneous, ^vl^ Communicating branch to 3rd Lumbar, from which communicating branch the Anterior Crural^ Obturator^ 6^ Accessory Obturator nerves (when the latter exists) are partly derived Srd Lumbar Nerve - Completes External Ciitaneous, and p;ives off Greater part of Anterior Crural, Obturator <£r» Accessory Obturator Nerves (when the latter exists), and a Coi7imuMcating branch to 4th Lumbar. 4th Lumbar Nerve - Completes Anterior Crural, Obturator, <Sr» Accessory Obturatof Nerves, (when the latter exists), and gives off a Large branch toLumbar, Vf^ioYi large branch forms with the latter nerve the LumbO'Sacral Nerve or CoriU131 LATERAL BRANCHES of the LUMBAR PLEXUS. ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC - From 1st lumbar. Emerges from upper part of outer border of Psoas. Crosses quadratug lumborum. Perforates transversalis, and divides between it & internal oblique into branches : - Iliac - Pierces internal & external oblique just above crest of ilium, and supplies skin of gluteal region behind lateral cutaneous branch of twelfth dorsal nerv®. Hypogastric - Forwards between internal oblique & transversalis, communicating with ilio-inguinal. Pierces internal oblique & aponeurosis of external oblique a little above the external abdominal ring, and supplies skin of hypogas- tric region. ILIO-INGUINAL — From 1st lumbar; smaller than foregoing. Pierces psoas, and crosses quadratus lumborum immediately beloiv ilio-hypogastric. Pierces transversalis, and communicates with hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastrio between that muscle and the internal oblique, which it pierces a little further on. Through inguinal canal in front of spermatic cord; and supplies skin of upper & inner part of thigh and of scrotum & penis, or of labium pudendi. Is sometimes small, and then ends by joining the ilio-hypogastric near crest of ilium; in that case a branch of the ilio-hypogastric takes the place of the ilio-inguinal. GENITO-CRURAL — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and by a few filaments from the Isc, Descends obliquely through substance, and afterwards on anterior stcrface of psoas^ and divides into branches : - Genital - Over external iliac artery, and through inguinal canal behind spermatic cord, to cremaster muscle & scrotum; - in female behind round ligament to labium. Crural - Beneath Poupart s ligament on inner side of psoas. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of femoral artery, and supplies skin of upper and front part of thigh; communicates with middle cutaneous. EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and, by a few filaments, from the 3rd. Pierces psoas muscle towards its middle and crosses iliacus. Passes beneath Poupart's ligament thro^igh notch below anterior superior spme of ilium, and divides into branches: — ANTERioa - Pierces fascia lata about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and supplict skin of anterior & outer aspects of thigh as low as koea. Posterior - Supplies skin of outer & posterior aspect of thigh.THE DIAPHRAGM. IB fan-Bhaped; the expanded portion of the fan being horizontal, and the narrow portion, or handle, ver< tioal. It presents for examination its points of origin & the fibres arising from them, its central or ■D/^T-KTmc< i^m i^-nv^^-Tn.^r « ■n**^*^.^ corrliform tendon, its openings, & its relations. POINTS OF ORIGIN & FIBRES ARISING FROM THEM: ^^^^nP^in'9?J^'^^^?^ - Gives attachment to a narrow & sometimes tendinous slip, on either side ot WHICH the costal cartilages & the costal fibres bonnd a narrow triangular area, over the extent r'^v.+ilo^^ of which area the pleurae & the peritoneum are separated only by a little areolar tissue. cartilages & Osseous Portions of the 6 or 7 Lower Ribs - Give rise to the long arched T «rf«^«^4. A fi^^es, which, at their point of origin, interdigitate with the transversalis. Jjlgamentum ArcuatTim Internum - A thickened band of the fascia over the psoas, extending trom Bide of body of 1st, & sometimes from that of 2nd lumbar vertebra, to tip of transverse process of Ist & sometimes to that of 2nd. Gives rise to arched fibres similar but rather shorter. lilgamentum Arcuatum Externum - a thickened band of the fascia over quadratus lumborum (anterior lamella of posterior abdominal aponeurosis), extending from tip of transverse process ot brst lumbar vertebra, & sometimes from that of 2nd, to lower border & apex of last rib. •D^js^^ 1 mi • - « _ Gives rise to similar arched fibres. rprm A ^^^^^S'.T^IF^ * Fourth Lumbar Vertebrse by means of the UKUKA — Two thick fibro-muscular bundles, which arise by tendinous fibres as follows: KIGHT Crus - The thickest & longest, from front of bodies & intervertebral substances of Isfc, T 7^ ' Sl^' fO"^etimes of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th lumbar v., & from ant. common ligfc. of spine. liEPT Crus - The shortest & narrowest, from left side of bodies & intervertebral substances of 1st & 2nd or sometimes of 2nd & 3rd lumbar vertebrge, & from ant. common ligt. of spine. • • A- i^'^^^^^ ascend for a short distance on either side of the aorta, and then become joined m front of that vessel by means of a tendinous arch formed by the blending of their innermost fibres. The crura then give rise, as well as the intervening arch to two large fleshy bellies, the outer fasciculi of which bellies pass upwards & outwards to the cordiform tendon, while the inner ones first decussate in front of the aorta (those of the right side being the largest & most anterior), then diverge to surround the oesophagus, and finally meet again in Iront of it before they end in the central tendon. (In some very rare cases these fasciculi do not join in front of the oesophagus, a portion of the anterior margin of the oesophageal opening is then tendinous). CENTOtAL or CORDIFORM TENDON — The common insertion of all the fibres. Has somewhat the shape of a trefoil leaf; and presents anteriorly three leaflets; the right one is long, broad, & the largest; the left one, long, narrow, & the smallest; the middle one short, broad, & OPENINGS - Are: intermediate in size. Large Openings - Three: Aortic Opening - For aorta, vena azygos major, thoracic duct & frequently the left cord of the sym- pathetic. Lies in middle line, and is osteo-fibrous, being bounded behind by bodies of vertebrae, laterally by tendons of the crura, and in front by the fibrous arch which joins the latter. (Esophageal Opening - For oesophagus & pneumogastrio nerves. Lies higher up, & a little to the left. Is oval in form & entirely muscular, being formed by the inner decussating fasciculi of the fleshy portion of the crura; - in some very rare cases a portion of the anterior margin is fibrous, & formed by the posterior border of cordiform tendon. Opening for Inferior Vena Cava - The highest; lies a little to the right between right & middle leaflets of cordiform tendon. Is quadrilateral & fibrous, being bounded by four bundles of tendin- Small Openings - Transmit; ^ ^^^^^ "^s^^ ^^sies. Right cord of sympathetic, &=> sometimes the left; Right left greati lesser, 6^ least splanchnic nerves, either separately or conjointly. Vena azygos minor, sometimes the major - These openings vary therefore in number. RELATIONS - Of Upper Surface: Laterally - Pleurae; lungs. Also at circumference of thorax for a considerable though variable ex- tent, lower ribs & lower intercostal spaces, the lungs not descending under ordinary circum- sta,nces as low as the costal attachments of the diaphragm & the point of reflection of the pleuree The lateral portions of the diaphragm are the most movable; their degree of elevation or depression varies much more than that of the central part in accordance with the respiratory movements, and with the degree of distension, or otherwise, of the stomach, intestines, & uterus. The right lateral portion of the diaphragm, on account of the pressure of the liver on that side, rises by one or two ribs' breadths higher than the left, and reaches the level of In Forced Expiration - 4th costal cartilage; In State of Repose of Thorax - 5th costal cartilage; In Forced Inspiration - Line from ensiform cartilage, to back of 10th rib. Centrally - Heart & base of pericardium, the fibrous layer of which latter sac blends more particu- larly with the anterior & left part of central leaflet of cordiform tendon, & with the fascia covering the left anterior costal fibres. The central part of the diaphragm is flattened & less movable, and lies on a lower level than the lateral portions, except close to the sternum, in front, & to the vertebrae, behind, where, on the contrary, it rises a little highero Of Under Surface - This is entirely covered by peritoneum except behind pancreas, kidneys & supra- y§nal capsules, and at points of attachment of coronary & lateral ligaments of liver, gastro-phrenic ligament, & euspensorv ligament of spleen j it lies in mediate contact wiii liver, stomach & epleen,PELVIS & MALE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS.134 PERITONEUM. Downwards in front of spine & Aorta; Over upper part of rectum, forming meso-redum i Forwards: In Male : - To bladder, forming posterior false ligaments of bladder <Sr» recto- vesical pouch ; In Female : - To vagina & uterus, forming posterior ligaments of uterus & recto- vaginal pouch; and then over uterus & from uterus to bladder,' forming anterior ligaments of uterus & utero-vesical pouch; Over bladder and from bladder to anterior wall of abdomen; Up to umbilicus, covering urachus & obliterated hypogastric arteries.135 THE PELVIC FASCIA. Is continuous with fascia over psoas & iliacus and with fascia transversalis, and is slightly adherent to brim of pelvis, especially at sides. It is thin posteriorly, where it covers pyriformis muscle & cacral plexus, and passes behind internal iliac vessels which perforate it. In front it forms a single thick layer over obturator internus as low down as a white linear thickening, which linear thickening extends in a curved direction from apiue ol ischium to side of lower part of symphysis pubis, and both gives attachment to middle fibres of levator ani, and marks point of division of pelvic fascia into recto- vesical & obturator layers, or recto-vesical & obturator fasciae. . Eecto-Vesical Fascia- Is continued over inner surface of levator ani to bladder, prostate or vagina, & rectum. In front it forms anterior true ligaments of bladder, or pubo-prostatic ligaments. Further back it ascends over side of prostate, inclosing this gland & the prostatio plexus of veins, and is then continued on the bladder forming its lateral true ligaments. Posteriorly it sends a prolongation between the bladder & rectum, which prolong, ation invests the vesiculae seminales. Obturator Fascia - Descends on portion of obturator internus muscle which lies beneath levator ani, and becomes attached to pubic arch & sacro-sciatic ligaments. It forms a canal for pudic vessels & nerve, and gives off a thin layer, the anal or ischio-rectal fascia, to under surface of levator ani & to third part of rectum.136 SIDE VIEW of the MALE PELVIS. How to obtain it (the PerinsBum having been previously dissected) ; - Incline bladder & rectum to the right. Divide on left side obliterated hypogastric, vesical & middle haemorrhoidal arteries, (and the uterine & vaginal in female), lateral true ligament of bladder & levator ani musole. Saw through pubes externally to left anterior true ligament of bladder. Divide right common iliac artery & left common iliac vein, and saw through sacrum & coccyx just to the left of middle line. Detach deep perinseal fascia & the contained compressor urethrae muscle from rami of pabes & ischium. Introduce catheter into, and inflate, bladder j distend rectum with tow. What it shows: - Towards middle: - Cui edge of the deep perinceal fascia^ containing between its two layers; -» Cut edges of compressor urethrce <Sr» deep transverse muscles ; Mef}ibranous portion of urethra ; Pudic vessels nerve with the vessels nerve of the bulb ; Cowper^s glands their ducts. Below and in front of the deep perinaeal fascia : - Bulb of urethra partly covered by prolongation of anterior or inferior layer of deep peri" nceal fascia^ which latter passes down upon it and becomes lost on its surface. Above and behind the deep perinseal fascia: - Cut edges of levator ani muscle dr» of recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia^ which latter is seen further up to ascend upon bladder^ prostate^ <2r» rectum. The viscera of the pelvis and the vessels & nerves of the right side can now be examined couvenientljr.137 THE BEOTUM. Coramences opposite left Bacro-illao synchondtosia. Passes downwards & to the riglit to middle, or to a little to the right of middle, of third piece of saonam. Curves forwards upon concavity of sacrum & coccyx, regaining middle line if latter has been passed. Inclines downwards & backwards to amw. Is smooth & cylindrical, not sacculated; about 8 inches long. Rather narrower above than sigmoid flexure, but it increases as it descends, and is greatly dilated just above anus. - Divided into three parts: UPPER PART — From sacro-iliao synchondrosis to middle, or to a little to the right of middle, of third piece of sacrum j about 4 inches long. Almost completely surrounded by meso-reotum. Separated by small intestine from bladder, in the male, & from uterus & vagina, in the female J and connected inferiorly with latter organs by the folds of peritoneum which form margins of recto-vesical & recto-vaginal pouches respectively. Rests upon pyriformis muscle & sacral plexus of left side. Has to its left side left ureter & branches of left internal iliac artery. MIDDLE PART — From middle of third piece of sacrum to tip of coccyx; about 3 inches long. Covered by peritoneum in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, not at all below. In relation below & in front with: In the Male - Triangular portion of base of bladder, vesioulse seminales & vasa deferentia, and under surface of prostate. In the Female - Middle part of posterior wall of vagina, to which it is closely adherent. LOWER PART — From tip of coccyx to anus j about an inch in length. Invested by the internal & external sphincters & by the levatores ani. Separated by a triangular space, the perinasum, from membranous portion of urethra & bulb, in the male, from vagina, in the female. STRUCTURE — Presents: Serous Coat - Covers upper & middle parts of rectum, the former almost comple- tely, the latter in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, not at all below. Muscular Coat - Very thick; consists of fibres: External Longitudinal - Form a thick uniform layer all round intestine. Internal Cieculae - Are most numerous at lower end of rectum, where they form internal sphincter Cellular Coat - Forms a loose connection between the muscular & mucous coats. Mucous Membrane - Thick, very vascular, freely movable upon muscular coat. Presents; Longitudinal Folds - Most marked below; due to contraction of sphincter and disappear on distention. Peemanent Transverse Folds, or Folds op Houston - Three principal ones, semilunar, sometimes half an inch in depth, situated at upper part on right side, near middle of rectum on left side, and at front part opposite base of bladder. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From superior, middle & inferior hoemorrhoidalj they form a rich network beneath & within mucous membrane, the meshes of which network are mainly longitudinal in lower part of rectum, and connected opposite anus, by large transverse branches (Quain).-Veins Also mainly longitudinal near anus; open partly into internal iliacs & partly into inferior mesenteric. - Lymphatics. Open into glands in hollow of sacrum, or into lumbar glands. - Nerves. From sacral plexus, 4th •acral & inferior hoemorrhoidal nerves, and from inferior mesenteric & bjrpogastric plexuses. 18a138 THE KIDNEY. Is situated in lumbar region behind peritoneum, and extends from 11th rib to near crest ol ilium, right kidney lying a little lower than left one. Presents: Ant. Surface - Convex, looking slightly outwards, covered at upper & outer part by peritoneum, and in relation with: On Eight Side - Eight lobe of liver, descending portion of duodenum, ascending colon. On Left Side - Tail of pancreas, lower end of spleen, descending colon. Post. Surface - Flat; rests upon 11th & 12th ribs, crus of diaphragm, psoas magnus, and anterior lamella of aponeurosis of transversalis, which latter separates it from quadratus lumborum. Sup. Extremity - Thick, rounded, directed inwards, covered by suprarenal capsule. Corres- ponds on left side to upper border, on right side to lower border, of 11th rib. Inf. Extremity - Smaller, flattened, directed outwards. Descends to near crest of ilium. Outer Border - Convex, directed backwards & slightly upwards. Inner Border - Concave, directed forwards & slightly downwards. Presents the hilum, a Ion- gitudinal fissure most marked behind, which leads into the sinusy and contains from before backwards renal vein, renal artery & ureter. The kidneys are subject to frequent VARIATIONS in: Form & Size - One or both being longer «& narrower, or shorter & more roun. ded; or one being more or less enlarged & the other proportionately diminished. Situation - One or both being situated lower down than usual, occasionally in the pelvis. Number - There being but one kidney sometimes of a horse-shoe shape & situa- ted in front of the vertebrae, or there being a supernumerary kidney. THE URETER. The excretory duct of the kidney commences in the Calicesj - small tubes from 7 to 13 in number, which embrace each of them one, two or more papillae, and join to form the Infundibula, - larger tubes usually three in number, which join to form the Pelvis - funnel §haped dilatation of upper part of ureter compressed from before backwards, and situated at lower & back part of hilum. The ureter passes: Downwards & inwards upon psoas, beneath peritoneum & spermatic vessels, and, on the right side, on right side of inferior vena cava; Over common or external iliac artery, being covered by termination of ileum on the right side, by sigmoid flexure of colon, on the left; Forwards & inwards,- In the Male - In posterior false ligament of bladder, and on outer side of vas deferens & below obliterated hypogastric artery. In the Female - In posterior ligament of uterus and over side of cervix uteri & upper part of vagina, - to posterior angle of trigonum vesicae, passing obliquely through walls of bladder for about f of an inch. It is from 16 to 18 inches long, and of about the diameter of a crow-quill. The oalices, infundibula, pelvis & ureter are formed of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats. The muscular coat consists, in the greater part of the ureter, of two longitudinal layers comprising an intermediate circular onej the epithelium of the mucoua coat is spheroidal139 THE BLADDER. When Empty, - Is deeply situated behind pubes, in front of rectum, in the male, of uterus & vagina, in female, and is compressed from before backwards & triangular with base downwards ^ Moderately full, - Is rounded, and partly fills pelvis ; Distended^ - Becomes egg-shaped, curves slightly forwards, and rises into abdominal cavity some- times as high as umbilicus. In Female bladder is normally smaller, though sometimes larger through disten- tion, and is widest from side to side. In Children it is conical, and points up higher into abdomen. Presents: Ant, Surface - Destitute of peritoneum, and in relation with triangular ligament of urethra, pubes & pubo-prostatic ligaments, and with anterior wall of ab- domen in children, and also in adults when bladder is distended. Post. Surface - Covered by peritoneum, and separated by convolutions of small intestine from rectum in the male, and uterus in the female. Lateral Surfaces - Cross^ed towards their middle by obliterated hypogastric artery, below & behind by ureter, above & behind in male by vas deferens, which latter first crosses hypogastric artery externally, "and then passes between bladder & ureter. - Covered by peritoneum above & behind hypo- gastric artery, and rest below & in front on pelvic fascia. Apex - Connected to umbilicus by urachus & by obliterated hypogastric arteries, behind which it is covered by peritoneum. Base or Fundus - The enlarged part directed downwards & backwards. - In relation with In the Male - Second portion of rectum, upon which rests the part bounded by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, the vesiculse sominales & vasa deferentia, and the prostate gland. — Is covered behind by peri- toneum, the recto-vesical fold descending to about four inches from the anus when the bladder is distended, and nearly reaching the prostate when the bladder is empty. In the Female - Anterior wall of vagina & lower part of cervix uteri. Neck - Directed downwards & forwards, and now known to be the lowest part of the bladder both in the male & female, when in the erect posture; is sur- rounded in the male by the prostate gland. LIGAMENTS of the BLADDER Are five true ligaments, and five false ones formed by peritoneum. TilU£j LIGAMENTS — Anterior & Lateral formed by pelvic fascia & Superior or Urachus, a remnant of allantois. ANT. OR PUBO-PROSTATIC LIGAMENTS — From back of pubes on either side of symphysis to front of neck of bladder & upper surface of. prostate. Contain a few muscular fibres passing to bladder, and are separated by a narrow groove containing dorsal vein of penis. LATERAL LIGAMENTS — Broad k thin; formed by recto-vesical layer of pel- vic fascia as it passes from upper surface of levator ani to capsule of pros- tate & side of bladd sr. URACHUS, OR SUP. LIGAMENT — Fibro-miiscular cord extending from apex of bladder, where it is wide & expanded, to umbilicus, where it is contracted and lost in umbilical cicatrix. Sometimes partly pervious, communicating with bladder, sometimes completely pervious forming umbilical urinary fistula. FALSE LrGAMENTS — Posterior, Lateral & Superior. POST. FALSE LIGAMENTS — The margins of the recto-vesical pouch of perito- neum in the male, of the utero-vesical pouch in the female, where they are much smaller. Contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries & ureters. LATERAL FALSE LIGAMENTS — From sides of pelvis to sides of bladder. SUP, FALSE JilGAMENT — Over urachus & obliterated hypogastric arteries to ambilions.140 COVERINGS of the TESTICLE. Are the: - Scrotum - Consists of two layers! Integument - Thin & brownish; presents a few sebaceous follicles & thinly scattered crisp hairs, and is divided into two lateral halves by a median raph6, which raph6 is continued forwards on under surface of penis and backwards along middle line of perinseum to anus. Is closely applied to the testes and is corru- gated transversely when the dartos is contracted, that is to say, usually in the young & robust, and in all under the influence of cold, and is elongated & flaccid when the dartos is relaxed, that is to say, usually in the debilitated & aged, and in all under the influence of warmth. Dabtos - Is a thick stratum of loose reddish tissue,, a modification of the superficial fascia of the surrounding regions, consisting of areolar tissue with numerous superadded muscular fibres and without any fat; it sends inwards between the two testicles a septum, the septum scroti, which divides its cavity into two. - It is contractile, but its contractility is slow in its action, and especially excited by cold, not by electricity. Intercolumnar or External Spermatic Fascia - Thin cellular layer derived from the.margins of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testis, and continuous above with the intercolumnar fibres, which bound that ring superiorly. Cremasteric Fascia - Consists of the soatterea bundles of fibres of the crem aster & internal oblique muscles united by a little areolar tissue. Fascia Propria - Relatively thick layer, the continuation of the infandibuliform process of the fascia transversalis, which layer supports both the cremasteric fascia & the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Tunica Vaginalis - is derived from the peritoneum, of which it is at first a continuationj but from which it is subsequently cut off by the closure of that part of the peritoneal pouch, which extends from the internal abdominal ring to a short distance from the testicle. - Is divided into : ViscBEAL Portion or Tunica Vaginalis Pkopria - Surrounds the testicle, and covers both the upper or outer surface of the epididymis and also the under surface of its central part or body, penetrating, along its outer border, between it & the testicle, and thus forming the digital fossa. pAEiETAL Portion, or Tunica Vaginalis Reflexa - Is reflected from the posterior bor- der of thie testicle upon the inner surface of the fascia propria, extending, however^ a short distance up the cord upon its anterior & inner aspects.141 THE TESTICLE & EPIDIDYMIS. THE TESTICLE is oval & compressed laterally, and so suspended by the spermatic cord as to present ? Upper Extremity - The largest, directed forwards & outwards. Presents a small pedun- culated body, the hydatid of Morgagni, probably a remnant of Muller's duct. Lower Extremity - The smaller, directed backwards & inwards. Lateral Surfaces - Looking respectively forwards & inwards, and backwards & outwards. Anterior Border - Convex, directed forwards, downwards & outwards. - All these parts are free, smooth, and entirely invested by the tunica vaginalis propria. Posterior Border - straight & flattened, directed backwards, upwards & inwards, covered by the epididymis & vas deferens, and only partly invested by the tunica vaginalis. The left testicle lies a little lower than the right one, and is frequently a littla largeRi THE EPIDIDYMIS Lies on the posterior border and back part of the outer surface of the testicle, and has the vas deferens on its inner side. It presents : Globus Major or Head - its upper enlarged extremity, connected to the testicle by the efferent ducts of the latter. Body ■- Free, surrounded by the tunica vaginalis, which dips in between it & the testicle along its outer border, and connects its inner or posterior border to the posterior border of the testicle. Globus Minor or Tail - Its lower pointed extremity, attached to the testicle by dense fibrous tissue. ^he tunica vaginalis covers the whole of the upper or outer surface of the epididymis, as Well as the under surface of its body. - The vas aber- rans of Haller communicates with the canal of the epididymis or with the oommenpement of the vas deferens142 STRUCTURE of the TESTICLE & EPIDIDYMIS. STRUCTURE of the TESTICLE — Presents for examination: - THREE IMMEDIATE COVERINGS : — Tunica Vaginalis - "Vide Coverings of the testicle. Tunica Albuginea - Thick, dense, bluish-vehite, fibrous membrane, covered exter. nally by the tunica vaginalis propria except along the points of attach- ment of the epididymis & vas deferens, and reflected into the interior of the testicle along its posterior or upper border in tbe shape of au incom- plete vertical septum, the mediastinum testis or Corpus Highmorianum. This latter body supports the vessels & nerves and the excretory ducts of the testicle in their passage to or from the gland, and gives off numerous trabeculaD, which radiate towards the whole extent of the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and inclose the numerous pyramidal spaces con- taining the lobules of the gland substance. Tunica VasCUloSa or Pia Mater Testis - Consists of a plexus of blood-vessels held together by delicate areolar tissue, and formed by the subdivision of the superficial set of brs. of the spermatic artery. Branches given off by this plexus, penetrate into the substance of the gland, supported by the trabecalse. PROPER SUBSTANCE or PARENCHYMA - Consists of numerous pyramidal lobules contained in the pyramidal spaces bounded by the trabeculae, and pre- senting a base directed towards the surface of the testicle and an apex directed towards the mediastinum. Of these lobules the central ones are the largest. The degree to which the lobules are isolated by the trabeculae is somewhat vari. able, hence the different estimates of their number, 250 (Berres), 400 (Krause). Each lohile consists of from one to three or more tubuli seminiferi, the number & the length of which tubuli has also been variously estimated,- 300, sixteen feet in length (Monro), 840, two feet & a quarter in length (Lautij). - The diameter of the tubuli is from to -j-i^ of an inch. They consist from without inwards of a delicate fibro-areolar coat, a basement membrane, and sometimes a layer of granular nucleated epithelium. The epithelium is absent, however, when the gland is particularly active; the tubuli are then filled witb-oells of different sizea without any regular arrangement, Th-Q tiibuli seminiferi commence towards the surface of tiie testicle, sometiraea by free coecal or blind extremities, but more commonly by anastomatic loops. They are exceedingly convoluted in the peripheral part of the gland ; their convolutions are of two orders, viz., a fine & regular undulation giving a granular appear, ance to the whole of their mass, and a more complicated folding' of the undulating tube. Towards the apices of the lobules they become straighter, and they coalesce into from twenty to thirty straight tubes the vasa recta^ which are from -^^^ to Jg .) of an inch in diameter. The vasa recta enter the mediastinum, and passing upwards & backwards, they form within that body a network of anastomosing tubules, the rete testis or rete vasculosum testis. ,, The rete testis is continued superiorly into from twelve to fifteen or twenty vasa efferentia The vasa efferentia perforate the tunica albuginea at the upper & back part of the testicle. In their extra-testicular course, which is about 6 or 8 inches long, they are at first straight & relatively wide, but they soon become convoluted & slightly narrowed, and form a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosis which latter constitute together the globus major of the epididymis. They are lined with ciliated epithelium. The excretory ducts of the testicle open finally into the commencement ol the canal of the epididymis at apparently narrow intervals, which intervalsp however, are seen, when the canal of the epididymis is unravelled, to measure fronj two to thrge inches in length- STRUCTURE of the EPIDIDYMIS —The epididymis consists of a single tube about , , . twenty feet long, by which the tubuli seminiferi open into the vas deferens. Itfi is at first veiy thin & exceedingly convoluted, and of a diameter of about of inch. It diminishes a little in size for a short distance, but it soon increases con- siderably, the thickness of its walls increasing also, and its course becoming less ^ tortuous. A little fine areolar tissue binds its convolutions together, thicker septa being interposed between the larger masses of coils termed lobes, which latter arajj' mostly transverse in direction. The epithelium of the canal of the epididymis is' ciliated (Becker, Kolliker). - The Vas aberrans of Haller (Vide spermatic cord) is' usually concected either with the oaual of the epididymis or with the commence- ■ ment of the vas deferens. \143 THE VAS DEFERENS, VESICUL^ SEMINALE^ CuLATORY DUCTS. VAS DEFERENS Ascends on mner side of epididymis along lower three-fourths of posterior border of tea- ticle, to which it is attached by firm areolar tissue. Along back of spermatic cord to external abdominal ring ; Through external abdominal ring, inguinal canal & internal abdominal ring; Downwards, backwards, inwards to base of bladder, passing on outer side of epigastric & obliterated hypogastric arteries and then on inner side of ureter; Forwards & inwards between bladder & rectum, along inner side of vesicula seminalis becoming enlarged & sacculated; Narrows to a point, and joins opposite base of prostate with duct of corresponding vesi- cula seminalis, to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct. Its canal is very small. Its walls are very thick & dense, and consist from without inwards of a cellular coat, of a muscular coat presenting two longitudinal layers & an intermediate circular layer of fibres, and of a mucous coat covered with colum- nar non-ciliated epithelium. The vas aberrans of Haller communicates with the canal of the Epididymis or with the commencement of the vas deferens. YESIGULuE SEMINALES Two lobnlated membranous pouches about 2J inches long obliquely disposed between base of bladder & second part of rectum, and presenting: Post. Diverging Extremities - Enlarged, and reach as far back aa^ter- mination of ureters. Ant. Converging Extremities ~ Pointed; join at base of prostate with termin- ation of the corresponding vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct. Upper Surface - in contact with base of bladder. Under Surface ~ Rests upon second part of rectum, from which it is sepa- rated by a process of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. They have the enlarged & sacculated vasa deferentia to their inner side, and bound laterally a triangular portion of the base of the bladder which corresponds to trigonum vesicse. Each vesicula seminalis consists of a tube from four to six inches long, and of about the diameter of a crow quill. This tube is irregularly coiled upon itself, and. gives off numerous ccecal diverticula, which, as well as the coils of the tube, are bound together by firm areolar tissue. Its walls are thin, and consist of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats, the epithelium of the latter being squamous. EJACULATORY DUCTS Two small canals about f of an inch in length formed by the junction opposite the base of the prostate of the vas deferens with the duct of the vesicula seminalis. They pass forwards & inwards through the substance of the prostate along the side of the verumontanum, and terminate by a slit-like opening upon or within the mar- gins of the vesicula prostatica or sinus poqularia. Their walls are thin, and eonsiet of a delicate fibrous coat & of muscular & mucous coal*.144 THE SPERMATIC CORD. Confidsts of the portion of the vas deferens which extends from the testicle to ihe internal ab- dominal ring, and of the accompanying arteries, veins, lymphatics, & nerves and contains the vas aberrans & the organ of Giraldes. These structures are bound together hj delicate areolar tissue, and are invested from within outwards by: Tunica vaginalis^ below j Fascia propria, along the whole Cramasteric fascia, along nearly the whole of the course of the cord j Intercolwnnar fascia, dartos & skin of the scrotum, below the external abdominal ring. Vas deferens - I^ies at the back. Arteries - ^'^e the spermatic, the artery of the vas deferens from the superirr vesical, and the cremasteric branch of the epigastric. Veins - Are the spermatic veins, which pass up in front of the vas deferens, forming the pampiniform plexus, and then unite in a single trunk, which accompanies the abdomi- nal portion of the spermatic artery and terminates in the left renal vein, on the left side, in the inferior vena cava, on the right. Lymphatics - Terminate in the lumbar glands. Nerves - Are the ilio-inguinal, ihe genital branch of the genito-crural, frequently a branch of the ilio-hypogastric, and the spermatic plexus of ihe sympathetic, which latter is derived from the renal, aortic & hypogastric plexuses. Vas Aberrans (Haller) -a narrow tortuous tube from IJ to 11 inches long, connected with the commencement of the vas deferens or with the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, and passing upwards for 1 or 2 inches among the other vessels ol the spermatic cor^. It ends in a blind extremity, and is sometimes unconnected with the seminal ducts. It was probably connected in the foetus with the Wolffian body. Ofgan of Giraldes - A collection of minute convoluted tubules, probably a remnant d the Wolffian body, found in the lower & front part of the cord close'to the head of the epididymie.145 THE PROSTATE GLAND. Is a pale firm glandular structure of about the size & shape of a horse-chesnut, situated beneath the trigonum vesicae and around the neck of the bladder & commencement of the urethra; below and behind the symphysis pubis & the pubo-prostatic ligaments or anterior tru» ]iga. ments of the bladder; above & in front of the second part of the rectum and the-point of decussation of those anterior or inner fibres of the levator ani which form the levator prostatas; between the two lateral halves of the posterior or ascending layer of th.e deep porineeal fascia or triangular ligament, and between the two lateral halves of the ascending portion of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. It measures normally from 1^ to inches in its antero-posterior diameter, If inches in its greatest transverse diameter (Sir H. Thompson), and about f of an inch in depth; these measurements undergo, however, great variations in old persons, who are frequently the subjects of enlarged prostate. St consists of two lateral lobes separated behind by a deep notch, and of a third or middle lobe which is normally but a small rounded or triangular mass fitted in between the two lateral lobes in the under part of the organ, ard lying between the ejaculatory ducts immediately beneath the neck of the bladder. The degree of development of this middle lobe, is however, very variable, it being often much enlarged in advanced life, and then pro- jecting into the neck of the bladder so as to impede the passage of urine. Cfc presents for examination: BAS£j — Directed backwards & upwards towards the trigonum vesicae & the neck of the bladder, and notched posteriorly. APEX — Passes downwards & forwards between the posterior or ascending layers of the deep perinaeal fascia or triangular ligament. UPPER SURFACE — Covered by and connected to the pubo-prostatic ligaments or ant. true ligaments of the bladder and the front part of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. Is situated about | of an inch below & behind the symphysis pubis, and presents a slight longitudinal furrow. UNDER SURFACE — Rests upon the lower part of the second portion of the rectum (just opposite the bend between the second & third portions), a process of the recto- vesical layer of the pelvic fascia being interposed between the two organs. Presents a slight depression, or sometimes two converging grooves which correspond to the ejaculatory ducts and which demarcate the central lobe. LATERAL SURFACES — Covered by the layers of fascia above mentioned, by those anterior or inner fibres of the levatores ani which go to form the levator prostatas, and by fche reflections of the peritoneum from the bladder to the sides of the pelvis which reflections form the lateral false ligaments of the bladder. It is perforated by the urethra, which usually lies nearer its Upper than its lower surface, and also by the ejaculatory ducts which pass forwards & inwards through the lower part of the gland along the side of the verumontanum, and terminate by a slit-like opening upon or within the margins of the vesicula prostatica or sinus pocularis. STHUCTUHEj — Structurally the prostate presents: Fibrous Capsule — Distinct from the fibrous investment derived from the two halves of the posterior or ascending layer of the deep perinaeal fascia & from the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, and separated from these by prosta- tic plexus of veins. It sends off fibrous prolongations into the interior of the gland. Glaildular Subtance — Consists of follicular pouches which are grouped around, and open into, numerous elongated canals, by the junction of which from twelve to twenty excretory ducts are formed; these open into the prostatic sinus on the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. Muscular Fibres — Are abundant in the fibrous capsule. The urethra is surroun- ded, as it passes through the prostate, by a thick layer of circular fibres con- tinuous behind with the fibres of the sphintt^jefr vesicsd, and in front with those of the membranous portion of the urethra. Vessels & Nerves ^ Arteries are derived from the internal pudic, vesical & middle hssmorrhoidal. Veins form an important plexus around sides & base of prostate i they receive in front the dorsal vein of the penis, aud open bahind into internal iliac vein. Lymphatics r&mify on the outer snr^e of the capsule. Nerves are derived from hypogastric plexus. 19146 THE MALE URETHRA. .la about 8§ inches long, and extends from neck of bladder to end of perns. It presents beneath the pubes a fixed curve concave superiorly, and in front of the pubes in the flaccid state of the penis, a second flexible curve concave inferiorly. It is divided into: - FBOSTATIC PORTION — The widest & most dilatable part, spindle-shaped, inches long; passes through the prostate from base to apex, lying nearer its upper than its lower surface. Its transverse section is of a horse-shoe shape concave inferiorly. On its floor are the following parts: - Ueetheal Crest, Verumontanum or Caput Gallinaginis - Longitudinal elevation 8 or 9 lines in length and 1^ lines high at its central & highest part, consisting, accord- ing to Kobelt, of muscular fibres & erectile tissue. On either side of the crest is the Prostatic Sinus - A longitudinal groove into which open the ducts of the lateral lobe of the prostate. On the front part of the crest is the Utricle, Sinus Pocularis or Vesicula Prostatica - An expanding cul.de-sao, which passes backwards into the substance of the middle lobe of the prostate for about a quarter of an inch, and upon or within the margins of which are the slit.like openings of the ejaculatory ducts. MEMBRANOUS PORTION —The shortest, and, excepting the meatus, the narrowest part of the canal. It extends from apex of prostate to bulb of corpus spongiosum, and is situated between the two layers of the deep perinseal fascia, which layers are pro- longed around it, the one downwards & forwards, the other upwards & backwards. Its upper surface is concave superiorly, f of an inch long, and situatfid about an inch below & behind the pubic arch, from which arch it is separated by the anterior fibres of the compressor urethrse muscle by the dorsal vessels & nerves of the penis. Its under surface is convex inferiorly, only ^ inch long (in consequence of the bulb pro- jecting backwards beneath the urethra), and separated from the rectum by a triangu- lar space, broad below, narrow above, the perinaeum. SPONGY PORTION — Commences within the bulb below & behind the symphysis pubis, ascends a short distance in front of the symphysis within the corpus spongiosum, curves downwards with the latter in the flaccid state of the penis, and ends at the meatus urinarius. It is about six inches long. In the greatest part of its course it is uniform in size, and intermediate between the prostatic & membranous portions; it is dilated, however, within the bulb & within the glans penis (in which latter situation the dila- tation forms the fossa navicularis), and is greatly constricted at the meatus. Its transverse section is elongated from side to side except within the glans penis, where it is elongated vertically. On its walls, and more particularly on its floor, are the open- ings of numerous mucous glands, the glands of Littre, which openings are directed for- wards, and are sometimes large enough to intercept the passage of small catheters; this is especially the case with one of them, which is situated on the upper wall of the fossa navicularis, and which constitutes the lacuna magna. On the floor of its pos- terior dilated portion comprised within the bulb, and sometimes termed the bulbous portion, are the openings of the ducts of Cowper's glands. STRUCTURE — Three coats: - Mucous Coat - Thin, pale in the prostatic portion, rosy in the membranous & spongy portions, in which it is thrown into longitudinal folds (except when the canal is distended with urine). Covered with columnar epithelium except in the fossa navicularis, where the epithelium is squamous. Presents the glands of Littre above described, which glands are most abundant in the spongy portion, and presents also, near the meatus, a few papillas. Muscular Coat - Consists of external longitudinal & internal circular unstriped mus- cular fibres, both most abundant in the prostatic portion. Erectile Coat - Thick in the spongy portion, where it forms the corpus spongiosum (Vide Structure of the Penis). From this a thin layer of erectile tissue is pro- longed upwards round the membranous & prostatic portions as far as the neck of the bladder, forming in the prostatic portion, according to Kobelt, the vern- moatftnum or oapat gallinagiaig.147 STRUCTURE of the PENIS. CORPORA CAVERNOSA — Arise from the anterior & inner part of the two ischial tuberosities, and from the ascending rami of the ischia & descending rami of the pubea, by two pointed prolongations, the crwa penis. These pass forwards & inwards, present a slight enlargement, the bulb of the corpus (r«wr;wj?/;«, and unite to form the body of the penis. - The body of the penis presents on its upper surface a narrow median groove for the dorsal vessels & nerves of the organ, and, on its under surface a broader groove, which receives the corpns spongiosum. It ends anteriorly in a rounded extremity over- lapped by the base of the glans. CORPUS SPONGIOSUM — Commences between the two converging crura of the corpora cavernosa by an expanded portion, the bulb of the urethra. This latter is penetrated superiorly by the membranous portion of the urethra, is marked inferiorly by a partial division into two lobes, and is surrounded by the accelerator urinse muscle & by a pro- longation of the anterior or descending layer of the deep perinseal fascia, - It passes for- wards, as an erectile tube, round the spongy portion of the urethra, and terminates in the glans penis, a conical enlargement, which overlaps the anterior rounded extremity of the two corpora cavernosa. STRUCTURE of the CORPORA CAVERNOSA & SPONGIOSUM - They consist of: Fibrous Investment - Thick, dense, firm, especially over the corpora o»vernos», highly elastic, but incapable of more than a certain degree of distention; formed of white & yellow elastic fibrous tissues and of unstriped muscular fibres disposed longitudinally in the superficial strata, circularly in the deeper ones. It forms but an incomplete septum between the two corpora cavernosa in their points of contact: - The septum is thick & imperforate behind, but it only consists in front of a few vertical bands arranged somewhat like the teeth of a comb, and forming the septum peciitiiforme. It gives off numerous trabeculae from its inner surface. - In the corpora cavernosa the trabeculae are strongest towards the periphery, and tbe com- partments they bound are transversely or circularly disposed «& largest towards the centre. In the corpus spongiosum the trabeculae are more deli, cate, and the compartments are longitudinal & more uniform, except in the glans penis where their arrangement is somewhat complex. Erectile Tissue - Consists of afferent arteries, a venous plexus, & efferent veins. Afferekt Arteries - Are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa & the arteries of the bulb, and twigs from the internal pudic & the dorsal arteries of the penis. Some of the branches of these arteries terminate in capil- lary plexuses as in other parts of the body. Others, the helicine arteries,'vfhich are said to be especially numerous towards the root of the penis and to be wanting in the glans, become convoluted, and forming tendril-like twigs, project singly or in tufts into the ve wua spaces, and end in dilated extremities which are either open or closed (MiiUer). This is denied however by Valentin, who describes the smallest branches of the arteries as ending in wide funnel-shaped orifices, which open directly into the venous spcjices. Venous Plexus - Is very intricate. So numerous & large are the communica- tions between the veins that the blood appears to be effused into a system of extra-vascular structures. Ebperent Veins - Some emerge from the corona glandis and from the upper & under surfaces of the corpora cavernosa, and join the dorsal vein of the penis j most pass out at the root of the penis, and join the prosta- tic plexus & the pudic veins. The proper nerves of the cavernous structures are 14 derived mainly from the pelvic & prostatic plexuses of the sympathetic, but partly also from the pudic nerve.148 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Short thick trunk which extends from bifurcation of common iliac artery opposite sacro- vertebral articulation (some Authors say opposite sacro-iliac synchondrosis) to upper border of great sacro-sciatio foramen, near which it divides into anterior & posterior divisions. Usually 1^ inches long, but its length may vary from an inch to 3 inches. Eather smaller in adult than the external iliac. Twice as large in foetus: - Under the name of hypogastric artery, it then continues the common iliac along side of bladder, and ascends to umbilicus where it becomes one of the umbilical arteries. RELATIONS: In Front - Peritoneum, ureter. Behind - Pyriformis, internal iliac vein, lumbo-saoral cord. On Outer Side near Origin - Psoas & external iliac vein, SRANCHEjS Are given ofi" as follows, from; - ANT. DIVISION - Sup. Middle & Inf. Vesical, Middle H«emor- rhoidal, and in female. Uterine & Vaginal; Obturator, Sciatic, Pudic. POST. DIVISION — Ilio-Lumbar, Lateral Sacral, Gluteal.149 BRANCHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-lst T. BRANCHES FROM ANTERIOR DIVISION. VISCERAL BRANCHES: Vesical-Two or three j but other twigs pass to bladder from middle hsemorrhoidal, uterine, vaginal, & obturator. Superior Vesical - Is that part of hypogastric artery which extends to side of bladder, and which remains pervious after birth. Gives off artery of vas deferens, and the Middle Vesical, - Which is often wanting. Inferior Vesical - Usually arises in common with middle hsemorrhoidal. To base of bladder, prostate, & vesiculse seminales. Middle HSBmorrhoidal - Joins with superior haemorrhoidal branch of inferior mesenteric, and with inferior hsemorrhoidal branch of internal pudio. Uterine - Downwards to neck of uterus, and then upwards in a tortuous course along side of body between folds of broad ligament j communicates with ovarian. Vaginal - Descends upon vagina to neck of bladder & rectum. NON-VISCERAL BRANCHES: Obturator - Usually arises (2 cases out of 3) from anterior division or sometimes from posterior division of internal iliac. In one case in 3| it arises from the epigastric, that is to say that its anastomotic branch with that artery is enormously increased in size while its proper root is proportionately dimin- ished. Sometimes both roots are nearly equally developed (1 case in 72). Occasionally the artery arises from termination of external iliac. In cases of abnormal origin from epigastric the obturator artery usually arises from near the root of the latter, and then descends into the pelvis close to the external iliac vein and on the outer side of the femoral ring. Some- times, however, it arises from the epigastric higher up, that is to say at a distance from the root of the latter; it then passes'inwards above the femoral ring and descends into the pelvis on the inner side of that ring behind Gimberat's ligament. It is in this latter case only that the obturator artery is exposed to be wounded in the operation for strangulated femoral hernia. When it arises from the internal iliac it passes forwards along outer wall of pelvia below obturator nerve, giving off small iliac & vesical branches and a pubio branch which communicates on back of pubes with its fellow and with the epigastric. Through upper part of obturator foramen, and divides into: Internal Br. - Eound inner margin of obturator foramen j supplies obturator & adductor muscles, pectineus & gracilis and anasto- moses with internal circumflex. External Br. - Round outer margin of obturator foramen to inter- val between gemellus inferior & quadratus femoris, sends an articular branch to hip-joint through cotyloid notch, and anasto. moses with external circumflex & sciatic arteries ; supplies obtu- rator externus & the lower external rotator muscles. Sciatic - The largest of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliao artery, and the largest branch of the artery alter gluteal. Downwards in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying a little behind & to outer side of internal pudio. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis and between great sciatic nerve & pudic vessels & nerve. "With small sciatic nerve over gemelli, obturator internus & quadratus femoris and in front of gluteus maximua Gives ofl* branches: ^ Muscular, Articular to hip-joint j Coccygeal, Inferior Gluteal; Comes Nervi Ischiadici - Long, slender; with, and subsequently within sheath of, great sciatic nerve to lower part of thigil Pudic - Vide next Tablet.150 BKANCHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-2nd T. PUDIC ARTERY. The smaller of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery. Descends in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying to the inner side & a little in front of sciatic artery. With pudic nerve through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis on inner side of sciatic nerves & sciatic artery. Winds round spine of ischium and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa below pudic nerve, being covered by obturator fascia, and lying at first 1J inches above lower extremity of tuber ischii, but approaching surface as it progresses. Pierces deep layer of deep perinasal fascia, and ascends along pubic arch between the two layers of that fascia to near symphysis pubis. Pierces superficial layer of deep perinaeal fascia, and divides into artery of corpus cavernosum and dorsal artery of penis. BRANCHES: Inferior Hsemorrhoidal - Two or three, small. - Arise in ischio-rectal fossa, which they cross to lower part of rectum & anus. Superficial Perinssal - Arises near transversus perinsei muscle, which it crosses superficially. Between accelerator nrinae & erector penis to skin of scrotnm & dartos, or of labium. Transverse Perinseal - Small, arises frequently from superficial perinaeal. Inwards below transversus perinsei to structures between bulb and anus. Artery of the Bulb - Large and surgically important. Inwards to bulb & Cowper's glands between the two layers of deep perinsBal fascia. May be small or even absent, or may be double. May arise earlier and cross perinseum further back than usual, and would then be very liable to be divided in lateral lithotomy. May arise from an accessory pudic, and then lie more forward and be altogether out of danger. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum - Pierces cms penis, and runs forwards in corpus cavernosum by side of septum pectiniforme. Dorsal Artery of the Penis - Between cms and symphysis. Through suspensory ligament and forwards beneath skin on dorsum of penis to glans & prepuce. ACCESSORY PUDIC ARTERY — Exceptional branch of internal iliac, which exists when pudic artery, being smaller than usual, fails to give ofi" its two terminal branches & sometimes even the artery of the bulb. Arises from near origin of pudic, passes forwards along base of bladder & upper part of prostate, pierces triangular ligament, and takes the place of terminal por- tion of normal artery.151 BRANCHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-3rd T. BRANCHES PROM POSTERIOR DIVISION. Ilio-Lumbar - Arises from upper part of posterior division. Ascends beneath psoas to upper part of iliac fossa, where it divides into : Lumbar Branch - To psoas & quadratus lumborum, communicating with last lumbar artery, and sending a small spinal branch through interver- tebral foramen between last lumbar vertebra & sacrum; Iliac Bkanch - To iliacus & ilium, and along crest anastomosing with circum- flex iliac. Lateral Sacral - Usually two, superior & inferior. Downwards and inwards in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, and along inner side of anterior sacral foramina, anastomosing with middle sacral and giving ofl Dorsal Branch-es - Through anterior sacral foramina to contents of spinal canal, and then through posterior sacral foramina to skin & musclef on back of sacrum. Gluteal - The largest branch of internal iliac, and the continuation of its posterior division. Through great sacrd-soiatic fo-ramen above pyriformis, and then between latter muS' cle & gluteus medius, and divides into: Superficial Branch - Gives off numerous branches to gluteus maximus & in- tegument over sacrum; Deep Branch - Forwards between glutei medius & minimus, and divides into* Superior Division - Along upper border of gluteus minimus towards an- terior superior spine of ilium, and joins with circumflex Uiac. Inferior Division - Crosses gluteus minimus towards great trochanter, and joins with ascending branches of external circumflex.152 SACRAL PLEXUS. Formed by lumbo-sacral cord & anterior divisions of the three first sacral nerves, and part of that of the fourth. Triangular in shape, - its constituent nerve-fibres converging to form one broad flat oord, which leaves pelvis through lower part of great sacro-sciatio foramen below pyriformis, and immediately divides into Small sciatic. Great sciatic & Pudio. Rests upon pyriformis, and is covered by the pelvic fascia & by the two terminal branches (sciatic & pudic) of anterior division of internal iliao artery. BRANCHES : Superior Gluteal - From back of lumbo-sacral cord. With gluteal vessels through upper part of great eacro-sciatio foramen above pyriformis, and divides into; SuPEEioE Beanch - Along middle curved line on dorsum ilii with superior division of deep branch of gluteal artery. Supplies glutei raedius & minimus. Inferior Branch - Directly forwards bet ween glutei medius & minimus, which it also supplies, and terminates in tensor vaginae femoris. Muscular - To pyr-formis, obturator internns, gemelli & qaadratus femoris. - The nerve to obturator internus passes behind spine of ischium and through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to inner surface of the muscle. - The gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris are supplied by a common branch, which runs between capsule of hip-joint and the obturator internus & gemelli, and gives off an articular filament to the joint. Small Sciatic - From lower & back part of sacral plexus. With sciatic vessels through lower part of great sacro-sciatio foramen below pyriformis. Descends beneath gluteus maximus on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Along back of thigh beneath fascia lata to lower part of popliteal space. Perforates deep fascia, and accompanies external saphenous vein to skin of back of leg J communicates with external saphenous nerve. Gives off branches: Inferior Gluteal - Several, large; to under surface of gluteus maximus. Inferior Pudendal - Forwards below tuber ischii to skin of perinasum and upper Sb inner part of thigh, and to scrotum or labium. Cutaneous - Descending, To skin of inner & outer sides of back of thigh, popliteal space and back of leg. Ascending, Wind round lower border of gluteus maximus to integument over its surface Great Sciatic - Vide p. 78. Pudic - Vide pp. 107 h 293.HEAD & NECK. II. POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF THE NECK.154 POSTERIOR TRIANGLE of the NECK Is bounded by sterno-mastoid, trapezius & clavicle. Its floor is formed froni above downwards by splenius capitis, levator anguH scapulaa, posterior & middle scaleni, and superior digitation of serratus magnus; - a part of the complexus is sometimes seen above the spleniua. It is divided by posterior belly of omo-hyoid into: Sup. or Occipital Portion - The largest, contains: Superficial cervical plexus & spinal accessory nerves Transversalis colli artery & vein, Fat & lymphatic glands. Inf. or Clavicular Portion - The smallest, its size varies greatly vnth the extent of clavicular attachments of sterno-mastoid «& trapezius, situation of omo- hyoid, and elevated or depressed position of shoulder. Contalnai Third part of subclavian artery, Brachial plexus^ Transversalis humeri & transversalis colli vessels^ External jugular vein. Fat & lymphatic glands.155 MUSCLES. Platysma Myoides — Clavicle, acromion, fascia over pectoralis major, deltoid, & trapezius. Innermost fibres decussate below chin & in front of symphysis; others are inserted into lower jaw below external oblique line ; others blend with depressores labii inferioris & anguli oris and the other muscles of the mouth, forming risorius. - S. by superficial cervical plexus and facial nerve. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid- Sternal Portion - Upper & outer part of front of first piece of sternum. Clavicular Portion - Anterior surface & upper border of inner third of clavicle. Anterior border & outer surface of mastoid process and outer two-thirda of superior curved line of occipital bone. - S. by deep external branches ol cervical plexus & by spinal accessory nerve. Trapezius - External occipital protuberance & inner third of superior curved line of occipital bone ; ligamentum nuchse & spinous processes of the last cervical & of all the dorsal vertebrae ; supraspinous ligament. Posterior border of outer third of clavicle, inner border of acromion; whole length of upper lip of posterior border of spine of scapula, and tubercle at outer part of smooth surface at its inner extremity. - S. by spinal accessory nerve & deep branches of cervical plexus. Levator Anguli Scapulae - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 3, 4, or 5 upper cervical vertebrae between splenius and scalenus medius. Posterior border of scapula between spine and superior angle. - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Splenius - Lower half of ligamentum nuchse and spinous processes of 7th cervical & six upper dorsal vertebrae. Splenius Capitis - Mastoid process and outer part of rough surface between sup- erior & inferior curved lines of occipital bone. Splenius Colli - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 2, 3, or 4 upper cer* vical vertebrae by external branches of posterior divisic-ns of cervical nerves. Scalenus AntiCUS-Tubercule on inner border and upper surface of 1st rib. Anterior tubercules of transverse processes of 3rd, 4th, 6th, and 6th cervieaV vertebrae. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. Scalenus IVIediUS - Upper surface of first rib behind groove for subclavian arterj. Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of six lower cervical vertebrae. - S. by one of the supra-claviculai- branches of brachial plexus. Scalenus Posticus - Back of outer surface of 2nd rib. Posterior tubercules of transverse processes of two or three lower cervical vertebrae, - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus.156 CERVIOAL PLEXUS. Formed by anterior branches of four upper cervical nerves & loops connecting them, and lies beneath sterno-mastoid, in front of levator anguli scapulae & scalenus medius & the four upper vertebraB. Communicates through loop between 4th & 5th nerves with brachial plexus, and, through its deep communicating branches, with pneumogastric, fipinal accessory, hypoglossal & superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. - Its superficial branches communicate with facial & great occipital. Its branches are superficial & deep. SUPERFICIAL BRANCHES — Wind round posterior border of sterno-mastoid one below the other in the following order, which is also the order in which they arise. Small Occipital - From 2nd cervical J variable in size & sometimes double. Ascends behind stersLO-mastoid to attollens aurem & posterior belly of occipito- frontalis, and perforates deep fascia to integument of back of side of head & upper part of back of pinna j its auricular branches being sometimes supplied by great occipital. Joins with great occipital, great auricular, & posterior auricular branch of facial. - The second small occipital, or smallest occipital, when it exists, arises from 3rd nerve, and sends twigs to back of neck. Great Auricular - From 2nd & 3rd cervical nerves. Ascends upon sterno-mastoid & beneath platysma to near lobule of ear, where it divides into branches: Auricular - Several, large; to integument of back of pinna, joining with pos- terior auricular branches of facial & pneumogastric. Some twigs supply outer surface of lobule, and one reaches outer surface of pinna through a fissure between antihelix & concha. Mastoid - To integument behind ear, joining with post, auricular branch of facial. Facial - To integument of face, and to parotid gland joining with facial. Superficial Cervical-The largest; from 2nd & 3rd. . Crosses sterno-mastoid beneath platysma & external jugular vein, and divides into brs.: I Ascending - Gives off an ascending twig to external jugular vein, joins with cervico-facial branch of facial, and, supplying platysma, pierces it to integument of upper & front part of ueck. Descending - Pierces platysma to integument of lower & front part of ueck. Superficial Descending - Several large branches from 3rd & 4th. Descend between sterno-mastoid & trapezius, and divide into branches: Sternal - Cross origin of sterno-mastoid to integument of front of chest as far as middle line. Clavicular - Cross clavicle (sometimes one of them perforates the bone) to integument over pectoralis major & deltoid, communicating with cuta- neous branches of the superior intercostal nerves. Acromial - Over acromion & clavicular origin of trapezius to integument of outer & back part of shoulder.157 SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. Consists of two portions, the portion accessory to the pneumogastric & the spinal portion. POETION ACCESSORY to the PNEUMOGASTRIC - The smaller. Arises from lateral tract of medulla oblongata below pneumogastric. — Deep origin from grey nucleus on lower part of floor of 4th ventricle. Joins ganglion of root of pneumogastric in jugular foramen by two or three filaments, and is entirely added to the pneumogastric below the gan- glion of the trunk. Assists in forming pharyngeal^ superior <Sr» inferior laryngeal brs. of pneumogastric. SPINAL PORTION - The larger. Arises from lateral column of cord as low as 5tA or Qtk cej-vical n. — Deep origin from anterior horn of grey matter. Ascends between ligamentum denticulatuni & posterior roots of the spinal ns., and enters skull through foramen magnum. Passes out through jugular foramen in same sheath as, and on outer side of, pneumo- gastric n. and behind glosso-pharyngeal, joining with acces- sory portion. Backwards behind hypoglossal & pneumogastric, beneath and then behind internal jugular vein and digastric & stylo-hyoid muscles to upper part of sterno-mastoid. Pierces deep fibres of sterno-mastoid, giving branches to it and joining in its sub- 'stance with 3rd cervical nerve. iCrosses posterior triangle of the neck, joining with 2nd, 3rd, 4th & 5th cervical ns, and is distributed to under surface of trapeziag.158 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. From innomiaate artery behind upper border of sterno-clavioular articulation (right side), fi-om end of transverse portion of arch of Aorta (left side), to outer border of first rib. Divided into three parts; - ^IHST PART —From origin to inner border of scalenus anticua. SECOND PART — Lies behind scalenus anticus at a somewhat variable level above clav- icle. Short; forms higest part of arch described by the artery, - Relations : In Front - Scalenus anticus, subclavian vein, phrenic nerve. Behind - Scalenus medius. Above - Brachial plexus. Below - Pleura. Subclavian Vein lies below & in front of artery, from which it is separated by scalenus anticus. BRANCHES — Superior Intercostal on right side; generally no branch on left side. THIRD PART — From outer border of scalenus anticus to outer border of first rib. Crosses lower & inner part of posterior triangle of neck, lying in the small space bounded by orao.hyoid, clavicle & scalenus ant. - Delations: In front - Skin, superficial fascia, platysraa, descending branches of superficial cervical plexus, deep fascia, transversalis colli vein. Clavicle, subclavius & its nerve, transversalis humeri vessels, exter« nal jugular vein with the plexus frequently formed by the saprascapalar & transversalis oc'.H. Behind - Scalenus medius. Above - Brachial plexus, omo-hyoid. Below - Oater surface of first rib. Subclavian vein lies below, in front, & to inner side of artery, BRANCH — Frequently the Posterior Scapular, which is otherwise derived from the trauavorsalis colli.159 THYBOID AXIS. Short thick trunk from front of first part of subclavian close to inner border of scalenus anticus. Divides almost immediately into j- Infohor Thyroid - Vide p. 293. Suprascapular or Transversalis Humeri Crosses lower part of scalenus anticus under cover of sterno-mastoicl. Outwards behind clavicle, beneath omo-hyoid. Beneath trapezius, and over transverse ligament of scapula to supraspinous fossa, where it ramifies between the muscle & the bone. Crosses neck of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Anastomoses with the other scapular arteries, supplies thoulder-joint & subscapnlaris, and gives off a small supra-acromial twig. Transversalis Colli Crosses upper part of subclavian triangle ia front of scaleni & brachial plexus, passing sometimes between the trunks of the plexus, and divides beneath trapezius into; Superficial Cervical - Ascends beneath trapezius to muscle? & glands of back of neck, and anastomoses with superficial branch of arteria princepa cervicis. PosTEEiOR Scapular - Beneath levator angali scapulae to superior angle of scapula, and then along posterior border of the bono be leath rhoniboidei as far as its infei-ior angle, anastomosing with the other scapular arteries & the intercostals, Frequeatly arises from 3rd part ot subclavian.BRACHIAL PLEXUS. Formed as follows by anterior divisions of Sth, 6th, 7th, & 8th cervical and 1st dorsal us. { Fifth (Sr» Sixth Cervical unite between anterior & middle scaleni, and form the OUTER PRIMARY CORD. Eighth dr* First Dorsal unite behind scalenus anticus, and form the inner Seventh forms alone the middle primary cord. [primary cord. All three primary cords divide into anterior ^ fosterior divisions. Anterior divisions of outer middle primary cords form the outer cord. Anterior division of inner primary cord forms the inner cord. Posterior divisions of a//primary cords form the posterior cord. Broad between anterior & middle scaleni, where anterior divisions of the nerves lie above 2nd part of subclavian artery; contracted opposite clavicle, where inner & outer cords lie at fore part of plexus on outer side of 3rd part of subclavian artery & of 1st part of axillary j again expanded in axilla, where the three cords lie on inner, outer & posterior aspects of 2nd part of axillary, and where they break up into the large nerves of upper limb. Communicates with the cervical plexus through loop between 4th & 5th nerves & through branch from 5th nerve to phrenic, and with middle & inferior ganglia of sympathcLiOi BRANCHES—Are ABOVE THE CLAVICLE: Post, or Long Thoracic, or Ext. Respiratory of Sir C. Bell - From 5th & 6th nerves, the two roots uniting in substance of sca- lenus medius. Deeply along side of chest behind axillary vessels & cords of brachial plexus as far as lowest digitation of serratus magnus. Suprascapular - From back of trunk formed by union of 5th k 6th. Backwards & outwards beneath trapezius & through suprascapular foramen to supraspinous fossa, where lies between supraspina- tus & the bone. Round spine of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Supplies supra- & infra- spinati (two twigs to each), shoulder-joint & scapuln. XllUSCUlar - To rhomboldei & frequently to levator anguli scapulae (from 5th nerve), subclavius (from 5th & 6th, anastomoses frequently with phrenic), scaleni & longus colli (variably from 6th 7th & 8th.) Communicating - From 5th cervical to phrenic on anterior scalenus. BELOW THE CLAVICLE — The branches are given off from the three cords as follows, from: Outer Cord - External anterior thoracic, outer head of median, mus- culo-cutaneous or external cutaneous. Inner Cord — Internal anterior thoracic, inner head of median, ulnar, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous or n. of Wrisberg. Posterior Cord - The three subscapular nerves, musculo-spiral & circumflex.HEAD & NECK. II. ANTERIOR TRIANGLE OF THE NEGK=162 ANTERIOR TRIANGLE of the NECK. Is bounded by sterno-niastoid, middle line of neck, lower border of jaw & line from angle of jaw to mastoid process. It is divided by anterior belly of omo-hyoid, and by stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric into: Inf. Carotid Triangle - Bounded by sterno-mastoid, anterior belly of omo-hyoid, & middle line of neck; contains beneath sterno-hyoid & -thyroid: Co7nmon carotid artery, internal jugular vein, pneumogastric dr» sympathetic ; Inferior thyroid artery, recurrent laryngeal nerve ; Trachea, thyroid gland, lower part of larynx. Sup. Carotid Triangle - Bounded by sterno-mastoid, anterior belly of omo-hyoid, stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric; contains : Termination of common carotid artery^ internal external carotid arteries, dr^ first branches of the latter ; Superior thyroid, lingual, facial, dh^ internal jugular veins ; Pnetimogastric, superior laryngeal, 6^ sympathetic nerves : Hypoglossal <S^ descendens noni nerves. Upper part of larynx, lower part of pharynx. Submaxillary Triangle - Bounded by median line, jaw-bone & line from angle of jaw to mastoid process, and by stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric; contains: Suhmaxillary gland, facial artery & vein ; Submental artery, my/o-hyoid artery & nerve; Loiver part of parotid gland, facial nerve, external carotid artery with its posterior auricular, temporal 6^ internal maxillary branches ; Internal carotid, internal jugtdar vein, pneumogastric, sympathetic all separated from external carotid by stylo-glossus <& -pharyngeus & glosso-pharyngeal n.163 MUSCLES. INFRA-HYOID REGION. Sterno-Hyoid or Sterno-Cleido-Hyoid - Variously from posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, and from upper & back part of first piece of sternum or back of inner extremity of clavicle, or from both* sometimes from clavicle only; occa- sionally from cartilage of first rib. Lower border of body of hyoid bone internally to omo-hyoid. - S. by a branch, from loop between descendens & communicans noni nerves. SternO-Tlhyroid - Back of first piece of sternum below & internally to sterno-hyoid. Oblique line on ala of thyroid cartilage. - S. by a branch from same source. Omo-Hyoid - Upper border of scapula on inner side of suprascapular notch and some- times from transverse ligament. Lower border of body of hyoid bone externally to sterno-hyoid. - S. by a branch from loop between descendens & communicans noni nerves. Thyro-Hyoid - Oblique line on ala of thyroid cartilage. Lower border of body & greater cornu of hyoid bone. - S. by hypoglossal n. SUPRA-HYOID REGION. Digastric - Digastric groove on inner side of mastoid process. - Perforates stylo-hyoid and is held in connection with body & great cornu of hyoid bone by an apon- eurotic loop lined with synovial membrane, from which loop it is reflected upwards & forwards to Eough depression on inner lip of lower border of jaw bone close to sym- physis. - S., posterior belly by facial nerve, anterior belly by mylo-hyoid branch of inferior dental nerve. Stylo-Hyoid - Middle of outer surface of styloid process. Body of hyoid bone at its junction with great cornu. - S. by facial nerve. Mylo-Hyoid - Whole length of mylo-hyoid ridge. Body of hyoid bone & median raph6 from hyoid bone to symphysis. 3. mylo-hyoid branch of inferior dental nerve. Genio-Hyoid - inferior genial tubercle. Anterior surface of body of hyoid bone. - S« by hjj^oglofimX nerve.164 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. Right common carotid arises from innominate artery behind steno-clavicular articulation. Left common carotid arises from highest part of arch of Aorta, is longer, and has a thora- cic portion deeply situated within the thorax. THORACIC PORTION OF THE LEFT COMMON CAROTID ART. Upwards & outwards to root of neck. — RELATIONS: In Front — Sternum, sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, left innominate v., re- mains of thymus gland. Behind — Trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct. On Inner Side — Innominate artery. On Outer Side — Left pneumogastric & phrenic ns. & left subclavian art., left lung & pleura. CERVICAL PORTION OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. Upwards & outwards from behind sterno-clavicular articulation to upper border of thyroid cartilage, where divides into external & internal carotid arts. Direction from sternal end of clavicle to midway between angle of jaw & mastoid pr. In same sheath of deep cervical fascia as int. jugular v. & pneumogastric n. Deeply situated at origin; superficial at termination. — RELATIONS: In Front, Lower part — Skin, superf. f., platysma, ant. jugular v., deep f.; Sterno-mastoid, -hyoid, -thyroid, omo-hyoid, middle thyr. v. Upper part — Skin, superf. f. platysma, deep f, inner border of sterno-mastoid. Sterno-mastoid art., facial, lingual & sup. thyroid veins, descendens noni n. iiEHiND — Cervical vertebrae, longus colli, rectus capitis anticus major, inf thyroid artery, sympathetic & recurrent laryngeal ns. On Inner Side — Trachea, thyroid gland, larynx, pharynx; iuferior thy. roid art., recurrent laryngeal n. On Outer Side — Internal jugular vein, pneumogastric n. — At lower part of neck int. jugular v. diverges from artery on right side, approaches and crosses it on left side. EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. From upper border of thyroid cartilage to interval between neck of condyle & external audi- tory meatus, where divides into temporal & internal maxillary. At its origin it is more superficial & nearer middle line than int. carotid. — RELA- TIONS: Covered by — Skin, superficial f, platysma, deep f., ant. border of sterno-mastoid; Lingual & facial veins, hypoglossal n., digastric & stylo-hyoid ms. Parotid gl., facial n., junction of temporal & internal maxillary vs. On Inner Side — Wall of pharynx, portion of parotid gland, sup. laryngeal n. Behind — Sup. laryngeal n., stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus, glosso-pharyngeal n., in- ternal carotid art, BRANCHES: Superior Thyroid, Lingual, Facial; Occipital, Post. Auricular; — Ascending Pharyngeal; Temporal, Int. Maxillary.165 ANTERIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. SUP. THiriiOID — Arises from front of external carotid close to its origin beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid, and is quite superficial when this muscle is dissected from its sheath, for the latter then retracts and exposes the carotid vessels & their branches. Tortuoxis course upwards & forwards, and then downwards & forwards beneath omo- & sterno-hyoid & -thyroid to anterior surface of thyroid body. Gives ofi" brs: Hyoid - Small J along lower border of hyoid bone beneath thyro-hyoid, and joina with its fellow. Stemo-Mastoid or Superficial Descending, - Descends to middle of sterno-mastoid, crossing carotid vessels. Sup. Laryngeal - With superior laryngeal nerve to interior of larynx through outer part of thyro-hyoid membrane. CricO-Tliyroid - Small j crosses crico-thyroid membrane and joins with its fellow. XjINQUALi — Arises a little below hyoid bone beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Upwards & forwards upon middle constrictor to great cornu of hyoid bone. Horizontally forwards above great cornu beneath hyo-glossus, digastric & stylo-hyoid. Upwards on genio-hyo-glossus. Forwards with gustatory nerve on under surface of Hngualis inferior, and then beneath mucous membrane to tip of tongue under name of ranine. - Gives off brs: Hyoid - Small; along upper border of hyoid bone and joins with its fellow. Dorsalis LingUSe - /Ascends on genio-hyo-glossus to dorsum of tongue, epi- glottis, soft palate & tonsil. Sublingual - Forwards between mylo-hyoid & mucous membrane to sublingual gland. Ranine - The terminal branch j joins with its fellow at tip of tongue. FACIALi — Arises above preceding beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Forwards & upwards beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid & submaxillary gld. Crosses jaw bone in front of masseter. Forwards and upwards to angle of mouth upon buccinator & beneath platysma. Upwards beneath zygomatici and upon levator anguli oris and the levators of the lip & ala of the nose to inner canthus, where becomes angular artery and joins with ophthalmic. Is very tortuous in its course. Facial vein lies behind it, and is less tortuous. Gives off branches; Inferior or Ascending Palatine - Dips beneath ramus of jaw. Ascends. between stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus and then upon superior constric. tor in front of ascending pharyngeal, and supplies tonsil & soft palate. Tonsillar - Ascends upon and perforates sup. constrictor to tonsil & root of tongue. Submaxillary - Three or four, to submaxillary gland & surrounding muscles. Submental - Forwards on under surface of mylo-hyoid, and between it and digastric to symphysis, where ascends upon chin. Inf. Labial - Forwards Lcneath depressor anguli oris, below following artery to tissues of lower lip. Inf. Coronary - Forwards beneath depressor angali-oris, and tortuous course through substance of orbicularis and between it & mucous membrane, anastomosing with its fellov/. Sup. Coronary - Larger and more tortuous; similar course along free edge of upper lip, giving twigs to ala and artery of septum to septum of nose. Lateralis Nasi - To ala and dorsum of nose. Angular - To inner canthus, supplying lachrymal sac and anastomosing with nasal branch of ophthalmic. All these branches anastomose freely with each other, with-those of the oppo- site side, and with the mental, transverse facial, infra-orbital, ophthal- mic, sublingual, posterior superior or descending palatine and ascending pharyngeal arteries. 2lAPOSTERIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. OCCIPITAL — Arises just below ^sterior belly of digastric, and is crossed close to itfl origin by hypoglossal nervejr Upwards and backwards beneath posterior belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid, & portion of parotid gland, crossing internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, glosso.pharyngeal, pneumogastrio & spinal accessory nerves, - and then between mastoid process & transverse process of atlas. Horizontally backwards in occipital groove beneath eterno-mastoid, digastric, spleniua & trachelo-mastoid, - and then between trapezius & complexua. Pierces tipper part of trapezius, ascends beneath integument with great occipital nerve, and divides into numerous branches to upper & back part of head. Gives off branches: Muscular - Numerous small ones, and one large one to upper part of sterno- mastoid. Auricular - To back of ear. Meningeal - Through jugular foramen to dura mater of posterior fossa. Arteria Princeps Cervicis - Descends beneath splenius, and divides into: Superficial Be. - Descends between splenius & complexus, and anasto- moses with superficial cervical branch of transversalis colli. Deep Br. - Descends beneath complexus, and anastomoses with vertebral & with deep cervical branch of superior intercostal. 3P0ST. AURICULAR — Arises beneath or above digastric & stylo-hyoid, and ascends under cover of parotid gland & beneath facial nerve to groove between cartilage of ear and mastoid process, where divides into Ant. & Post. Branches - Which communicate respectively with posterior branch of temporal & with occipital, and of which the former gives off numerous branches to back of ear. - Gives off Stylo-mastoid Art. ( Sometimes derived from occipital). - Through stylo- mastoid foramen to tympanum & semicircular canals, joining with tym- panic branch of internal maxillary, with which it forma in young sub- jects ft vascular circle round membrana tympani. INTERNAL BRANCH of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL Long, slender; from back of external carotid near its origin. ikicends vertically to base of skull, in front of internal carotid artery and between that vessel & side of pharynx, giving off branches: External - Small, irregular, to 8th, 9th, and sympathetic nerves, and adjoining ^ - muscles. ' Pharyngeal - Three or four} to the three constrictors, stylo-pbaryngeus, Eus- "■ tachian tube, soft palate & tonsil. Meningeal - To dura mater through foramina lacera posterius & medium, and Bometimes through anterior condyloid foramen167 VEINS of HEAD & NECK—1st Tablet ANTERIOR JUGULAR VEIN —Commences in atibmaxillary region and descends beneath platysma between stemo-mastoid & middle line of neck, and then deeply beneath stemo-mastoid, beneath which muscle it commnnicatea with external & internal jugulars, and usually also with its fellow by a long & narrow , ' transverse branch. Ends usually in subclavian close to external jugular, some- times in terminal portion of external jugular. Receives Lateral Tbibutary Branches: - A few laryngeal veins & sometimes an inferior thyroid vein. - Varies greatly in size, and is frequently absent on one side or other. EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN — Formed by coalescence of temporal, internal maxillary, & posterior auricular, and commences in substance of parotid gland opposite angle of jaw. Descends perpendicularly over sterno-mastoid & along it3 posterior border, beneath platysma & over superlicial cervical n., and, perforating deep fascia, opens into subclavian externally to internal jugular. Has two pairs of valves situated, one at its opening into subclavian, the other about an inch & a half above clavicle. - Receivea Lateeal Teibutart Branches ; - Suprascapular^ Transversalis Colli, dr» Posterior External yugular, sometimes the Occipital; - and communicates with the anterior & internal jugulars, with the latter by a large branch in sub- stance of parotid. INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN - The continuation of lateral sinus opposite jugular foramen, in which foramen it is expanded into the gulf or sinus of the internal jugular vein. Descends vertically, lying first on outer side of & a little behind internal carotid, then on outer side of common carotid, and finally, on the left side, on outer side & in front of common carotid, and, on the right side, externally to & at" a certain distance from it, in front of first part of subclavian. The eighth & ninth nerves lie on inner side & in front of its sinus; lower down ^ the spinal accessory crosses the vein posteriorly, and the glosso-pharyngeal & hypoglossal pass forwards on its inner side, between it and the internal carotid;^' the pneumogastrio lies along whole of neck between & behind the two vessels; behind the vein are the recti capitis lateralis, anticus major, & the longus colli. - Joins subclavian behind sterno-clavicular articulation to form the innominate, a pair of valves being situated at or a little above its termination. -^Receives Lateral Tributary Branches : - Occipital (usually), Facial, Lingual, Pharyngeal, Sup* erior <Sr» Middle Thyroid; - and communicates by a large branch with external jugular in substance of parotid.168 CERVICAL PLEXUS. DEEP BRANCHES — Divided into internal & external. INTERNAL -Are: Communicating - From loop between 1st & 2nd cervical to pneumogastric, hypoglossal & superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic; and also from 3rd & 4th to cord of sympathetic below the ganglion. Muscular - From 1st & 2nd, to recti capitis antici ma jor & minor, and rectus lateralis. Communicans Noni - From 2nd & 3rd. Downwards & forwards across sheath of carotid vessels (sometimes within the sheath, and then either in front of or behind internal jugular vein), and, near middle of neck, forms a loop with descendens noni; from convexity of which loop branches are given off to the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid and omo-hyoid. Phrenic or Int. Respiratory of Sir C. Bell - From 3rd, 4th, and usually also from 5th. Downwards & inwards in front of scalenus anticus. Between subclavian vein & 1st part of subclavian artery crossing internal mammary, and receiving a filament from sympathetic, sometimes another from 5th & 6th cervical nerves, and occasionally on the left side, one from the ansa hypoglossi. Crosses arch of Aorta & pulmonary artery, on the left side. Descends, on the right side, on outer side of right innominate vein & sup. vena cava. In front of root of lung & along side of pericardium to diaphragm, and divides in to branches which perforate the diaphragm and supply it by its under surface. Both nerves give off twigs to the pericardium & pleura, and join with the phrenic plexus of the sympathetic, the right nerve sending also a few filaments to the diaphragmatic ganglion. EXTERNAL -Are: e Communicating r Join spinal accessory in substance of sterno-mastoid, in occipital triangle, & beneath trapezius. Muscular - To stemo-mastoid (from 2nd nerve), levator anguli scapulas (from 3rd), scale- nus medius & trapezius (from Srd & 4th)169 PNEUMOGASTBIC NERVE. Arises from lateral trad of medulla oblongata below ghsso-pharyngeal above spinal accessory. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of fourth ventricle. Through jugular foramen behind glosso-pharyngeal «& in same sheath as spinal accessory. Presents two ganglia, one in aiid one below jugular foramen : Sup. or Jugular G. or G-. op the Eoot — Small, greyish, rounded. Anastom. with facial, glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory 6^ sympathetic. Inf. G. or G. op the Trunk — Reddish, cylindrical, nearly an i«ich in length. Anastom. with hypoglossal, spinal accessory, sympathetic, loop between two first cervical nerves. Descends behind & between int. & comm. carotid arteries & int. jugular v. and in same sheath j Then, On Right Side : Between subclavian art. & v. and along side of trachea to back of root of lung, where spreads out into posterior pulmonary plexus. Along side of oesophagus in the shape of two or more separate cords, which form oesophageal plexus with nerve of opposite side. As a single cord along back of oesophagus to posterior surface of stomach, and joins solar & splenic plexuses. On Lept Side : Between and in front of left comm. carotid & left subclavian arteries behind left innominate vein. Across arch of aorta to back of root of lung, where similarly spreads out and joins with its fellow. Along side of oesophagus as above. As a single cord along front of oesophagus to anterior surface of stomach, and joins left hepatic plexus. BRANCHES: Auricular Br. Arises from g. of the root, and joins with glosso-pharyngeal. Across jugular fossa & through opening in temporal bone near styloid process % Between mastoid process & ext. audit, meatus to integument of back of pinna. Gives off: Ascending Br,, which joins trunk of facial in aqueductus Fallopii j Descending Br., which joins auricular branch of facial. Pharyngeal Br. — Arises from upper part of ganglion of the trunk; Crosses internal carotid art. either in front or behind; Anast. with glosso-pharyngeal, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic, and forms pha- ryngeal plexus to muscles & mucous membrane of pharynx. Sup. Laryngeal N. — Arises from middle of ganglion of the trunk. Descends by side of pharynx behind int. carotid artery, and divides into: EXT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Joins with pharyngeal plexus & sup. car- diac nerve, and supplies crico-thyroid & inf. constrictor. TNT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Pierces thyro-hyoid membrane to aryte- noid muscle and mucous membrane of larynx, base of tonguo & aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Recurr. Laryngeal N. — Ar. in front of, and passes below & behind, subclav. art. on right side, arch of-aorta, on left, giving twigs to deep cardiac plexus; Behind comm. carotid & inf. thyroid arteries, and in groove between trachea & oesophagus. Beneath inf. constrictor to all the muscles of the larynx except crico-thyroid. Gives brs. to inf. constrictor, and anastomoses with ext. laryngeal. Cardiac Brs. — Divided into: Cervical Cardiac i ^r-j xt fj-u ti x Thoracic Cardiac S ^'^^ ^^^^^^ °^ Pulmonary Brs. — Divided into Anterior and Posterior, and form the ant. & post. pulmonary plexuses. (Vide nerves of the lung.) Esophageal Brs. — Arise, some above, but most of them below, the pulmonary. Gastric Brs. — Right pneumogastric supplies post, aspect of stomach and joins so. lar & splenic plexuses; left pneumog. supplies ant. aspect, and joins left hepatic plexus.170 HYPOGLOSSAL NEBVE. Arises by ten or twelve filaments from groove between anterior pyramid olivary body in a line I continuous with that of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. These filaments ■ form two bundles which perforate dura mater separately, and pass together through anterior condyloid foramen, — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on lower part of floor of 4th ventricle. Passes downwards and forwards between pneumogastric & spinal accessory ns., with former of which it is intimately connected, and between int. jugular vein & int. carotid. Loops round occipital artery and passes forwards across external carotid below post, belly of digastric. Passes beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid and crosses hyo-glossus, near ant. border of which it anastomoses with gustatory. Passes beneath mylo-hyoid to muscles & substance of the tongue. BRS. OF COMMUNICATION - Join with G. of the trunk of the pneumogastric; Sup. cervical g. of the sympathetic; / Arise near base of skull. Loop between the two first cervical ns. Gustatory n. —Arises near ant. border of hyo-glossus. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION - Arethe.- Descendens Noni — Long & slender. Arises just beneath occipital artery. Passes downwards & forwards across sheath of carotid vessels. ( Sometimes within the sheath, either over or beneath int. jugular vein). Near middle of neck forms a loop with Communicans Noni, from convexity of which loop, brs. are given ofi" to sterno-hyoid & .thyroid and omo-hyoid. This br. is believed to derive its real origin principally from the 1st & 3rd cervical ns., and to have little more than an apparent origin from the hypoglossal, due to a temporary adhesion of its fibres to those of that nerve. Sometimes, owing to similar adhesions, it appears to arise from the pneumogastric either wholly or in part. Brs. to Thyro-hyoid & Genio-hyoid — ^^ise on surface of hyo-glossus. Brs. to Stylo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyo-glossus & subs- tance of the tongue. Arise beneath milo-byoid.171 CERVICAL PORTION of the SYMPATHETIC. Consists on each side of three ganglia, the superior, middle & inferior cervical (of which the middle one is sometimes wanting), and of their respective branches of communication & distribution. ME THREE GANGLIA: Superior Cervical Ganglion - The largest^ usually fusiform in shape and situated between the rectus capitis anticus major & the internal carotid opposite the ^nd ^ 3rd cervical vertebrce; sometimes irregular in shape & situated a little lower than usual. Middle Cervical Ganglion - When present, is the smallest of the three and is situated opposite the Zth cervical vertebra in the vicinity of the inferior thyroid artery. Inferior Cervical Ganglion - intermediate in size between the two others, and situated between the neck of the first rib &' the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra on inner side of superior intercostal artery; is irregular in form, and is frequently joined with the first thoracic ganglion, THEIR COMMUNICATIONS: These ganglia communicate with each other through the main cord of the sympatlietic, aud with the cerebro-spinal nerves as follows : SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION — With: Petrosal Ganglion of the Glosso-pharyngeal; Both Ganglia of the Pneumogastric ; Trunk of the Hypoglossal; Four upper Cervical Nerves - (Sometimes with the two upper nerves only, the branches of communication with the 3rd & 4th nerves occasionally joining the cord of the sympathetic a little below the ganglion). MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION — With: ' F^fth &^ Sixth Cervical Nerves - (In case of absence of the middle cervi- cal ganglion the 5th & 6th cervical nerves join with the cord of the sympathetic between the superior & inferior ganglia. INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION — With: . Seventh Eighth Cervical Nerves. THEIR .BRANCHES OP DISTRIBUTION - Vide next Tablet.172 BUS. of DISTRIB. of the CERV. G. of the SYMPATHETIC. These ganglia give off branches to the neighbouring arteries and to the viscera as follows s BRS. to the NEIGHBOURING ARTERIES: SUP. CERVICAL GANGLION - Gives off: ASCENDING BRANCH to INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY & its BRANCHES — Large, soft, of a reddish grey colour, and appears to be the direct continua- tion of the ganglion. It passes along the posterior aspect of internal carotid artery and divides on reaching the carotid canal into internal & external branches. Inteenal Branch - The smaller; ascends on inner side of internal carotid artery, communicating with the outer branch, and goes to form the greater part of the cavernous plexus. External Branch - The larger j ascends on outer side of internal carotid artery, communicating with the inner branch, and goes to form the greater part of the carotid plexus. ANTERIOR BRANCHES to EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY & its BRANCHES — Form delicate plexuses which accompany the external carotid artery dr' its branches, and on the filaments of which small ganglia are sometimes found. - From the plexus on the trunk of the external carotid artery a communica- ting branch is given off to the digastric branch of the facial nerve; from the plexus on the facial artery is derived the sympathetic root of the sub« maxillary ganglion; from the plexus on the internal maxillary artery is derived the sympathetic root of the otic ganglion and also a twig to the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial. MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION - Gives off: THYROID BRANCHES — Accompany the inferior thyroid artery, communicating with superior cardiac nerve, and reach the thyroid body, in which they communicate with the recurrent & external laryngeal nerves. INF. CERVICAL GANGLION - Gives off: BRANCHES to VERTEBRAL ARTERY — Form a plexus round that vessel, and communicate with the cervical nerves as high as the 4th. BRS. to the VISCERA — Are the: Cardiac Nerves - Vide Next Tablet. Pharyngeal Branches of the Superior Cervical Ganglion ~ Join with the* pharyngeal branches oi the glosso-pJiaryngeal, pneumogastric, 6^ external laryngeal to form the pharyngeal plexus, which plexus supplies the muscles & the muooua membrane of the pharynx. Thyroid Branches of the Middle Cervical Ganglion - Vide above,HEAD & NECK. III. THE FACE. 22174 MUSCLES of the FACE—1st Tablet. Are the: OCCIPITO-PRONTALIS. Frontal Portion - Innermost fibres are continuons with pyramidalis nasi, the others blend with orbicularis palpebrarum & corrugator supercilii. Occipital Portion - Outer two-thirds of superior curved line of occipital bone, and mastoid portion of temporal. The intervening epicranial aponeurosis is attached behind, between the two occipital portions, to the external occipital protuberance & to the superior curved lines; laterally it gives attachment to the attrahens & attollens aurem, and, becoming considerably thinned, passes over the temporal fascia to the zygoma. - It is intimately connected to the integument, loosely to the peri- cranium. S., frontal portion by facial nerve, occipital portion by small occipital branch of cervical plexus & by auricular branch of facial. MUSCLES of the EAR. Attollens Aurem, or Auricularis Superior - Temporal portion of epicranial aponeurosis. Upper and anterior part of helix & upper part of concha. - S. by small occipital branch of cervical plexus. Attrahens Aurem, or Auricularis Anterior - Lateral prolongation of epicranial aponeurosis below & in front of preceding. Front part of helix. - S. by facial nerve. Retrahens Aurem, or Auricularis Posterior - Mastoid process. Back of concha - S. by auricular branch of facial. MUSCLES of the NOSE. MUSCLES of the EYELIDS & ORBIT. MUSCLES of the MOUTH. ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the LOWER JAW - Vide following Tablets.175 MUSCLES of the PA0E~2nd Tablet. MUSCLES OP THE NOSE. Pyramidalis Nasi - Continuous superiorly with innermost fibres of ocoipito-froutalie. Aponeurosis of compressor nasi. Compressor Nasi - Lower & inner part of canine fosa. Aponeurosis continuous with that of its fellow over bridge of nose. Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of superior maxilla. Cartilage of ala of nose and upper lip blending with orbicularis & levator labii superioris proprius. Depressor Alsa Nasi - Myrtiform fossa or incisor fossa of upper jaw. Septum and back part of ala of nose. Irregular and indistinct fasciculi may be found over the alar cartilages forming the: Levator Pkopkius Al^e Nasi Posterior or Dilatator Naris Posterior, Levator Proprius Al^, Nasi Anterior or Dilatator Naris Anterior, Compressor Narium Minor. MUSCLES OP THE EYELIDS. Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Anterior surface and edges of tendo oculi, internal an- gular process of frontal, nasal process of superior maxilla in front of lachrymal groove. Orbicular Portion - Thick & red, forms complete ellipses, and blends superiorly with occipito-frontalis and corrugator supercilii. Palpebral OR Ciliary Portion - Thin & pale, forms a series of concentric curves, and is inserted externally into external tarsal ligament & malar bone. : TENDO OCULI OE TENDO PALPEBRARUM - From nasal process of superior maxilla in front of lachrymal groove. Crosses anterior aspect of lachrymal sac, giving off a fibrous lamina, the reflected portion of the tendo oculi, which passes backwards & inwards behind lachrymal sac to be attached to ridge on lachrymal bone. Bifurcates and is attached to inner extremity of each tarsal cartilage, Corrugator Supercilii - Tanner extremity of superciliary ridge of frontal. Under surface of orbicularis & occipito-frontalis. Tensor Tarsi - Ridge & posterior part of outer surface of lachrymal bone. Crosses posterior aspect of lachrymal sac, and divides into two slips «rhich are inserted into tarsal cartilages near punota laohrymalia. - May be con- sidered as a deep part of ciliary portion of orbicularis. Levator Palpebrse Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen and externally to superior oblique. XJjpper border of tarsal cartilage.176 MUSCLES of the FACE—3rd Tablet. MUSCLES of the MOUTH. Orbicularis Oris - Consists of three portions: Labial or Makginai, Portion - Continued uninterruptedly from one lip to the other round the commissures of the mouth. Facial Portion - Central fibres decussate with, the others are directly continuous with, fibres of buccinator. Accessory Portion - Consists for the upper lip of four fasciculi, the musouli acces- sorii orbicularis superiores, arising from superior maxilla opposite incisor teeth & from septum of the nose; and for lower lip, of two fasciculi, the musculi acoos- Borii orbicularis inferiores, from inferior maxilla near the canine teeth. Inserted into this muscle and into the integument covering it from the middle of the upper lip to the middle of the lower lip, are the following musclos (the last excepted), which all blend more or less with each other : - Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of superior maxilla. Levator Proprius Labii Superioris - Superior maxillary & malar bones close to margin of orbit. Levator Anguli Oris or Musculus Caninus - Canine fossa just below infra. orbital foramen. ZygOXnaticus Minor - Lower and front part of malar bone; ZygomatiCUS Major - Malar bone near zygomatic suture. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar processes of superior & inferior maxillge corres- ponding to the molar teeth, and from pterygo-maxillary ligament (which latter is a fibrous band extending from apex of internal pterygoid plate to posterior extremity of mylo-hyoid ridge of lower jaw, and which gives attachment poster- ** iorly to superior constrictor of pharynx). Its fibres are continuous with those of facial portion of orbicularis oris, the middle ones decussating, the superior & inferior ones passing directly into corres- ponding lip. Hisorius - Fascia over parotid gland & masseter. - Is often described as the upper part of platysma myoides. Depressor Anguli Oris or Triangularis Oris - External oblique line of lower jaw externally to mental foramen. Depressor Labii Inferioris or Quadratus Menti - External oblique Kne of lower jaw between symphysis & mental foramen. Levator Labii Inferioris or Levator Menti - incisor fossa of lower jaw. Integument of chin close to median line.177 FACIAL ARTERY. Arises above lingual beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Forwards & upwards beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid & submaxillary gld. Crosses jaw bone in front of masseter. Forwards and upwards to angle of mouth upon buccinator & beneath platysma. Upwards beneath zygomatici and upon levator anguli oris and the levators of the lip & ala of the nose to inner canthus, where becomes angular artery and joins with ophthalmic. Is very tortuous in its course. Facial vein lies behind it, and is less tortuous. Gives off branches: Inferior or Ascending Palatine - Dips beneath ramus of jaw. Ascends between stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus and then upon superior constric- tor in front of ascending pharyngeal, and supplies tonsil & soft palate. Tonsillar - Ascends upon and perforates sup. constrictor to tonsil & root of tongue. Submaxillary - Three or four, to submaxillary gland & surrounding muscles. Submental - Forwards on under surface of mylo-hyoid, and between it and digastric to symphysis, where ascends upon chin. Inf. Labial - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, below following artery to tissues of lower lip. Inf. Coronary - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, and tortuous course through substance of orbicularis and between it & mucous membrane, anastomosing with its fellow. Sup. Coronary - Larger and more tortuous; similar course along free edge of upper lip, giving twigs to ala and artery of septum to septum of nose. Lateralis Nasi - To ala and dorsum of nose. Angular - To inner canthus, supplying lachrymal sac and anastomosing with nasal branch of ophthalmic. All these branches anastomose freely with each other, with those of the oppo- site side, and with the mental, transverse facial, infra-orbital, ophthal- mic, sublingual, posterior superior or descending palatine and ascending pharyngeal arteries.TEMPORAL ARTERY. ' Commences in substance of parotid gland between neck of coiidyle & external auditory meatus. Ascends in groove between condyle & external auditory meatus, and crosses posterior root of zygoma. Ascends for about two inches upon temporal muscle & fascia, and beneath skin & attra- hens aurem, with branches of facial & auriculo-temporal nerves, and divides into: Ant. Temporal - The smaller. Forwards over forehead, and joins , - with supraorbital & frontal. Post. Tenipor^l - The larger. Upwards & backwards, and joins with posterior auricular & occipital. Gives off before its division: Twigs - To parotid gland & temporo-maxillary articulation. Transverse Facial - Forwards through parotid gland, and across face be- tween Steno's duct & zygoma; joins with facial & infraorbital. Middle Temporal - Through temporal fascia to temporal muscle, joining with deep temporal branches of internal maxillary. Often gives off Orbital Bbanch - To outer angle of orbit along upper border of zygoma & between the two layers of temporal fascia. Ant. Auricular - Two or three small branches to external ear.179 FACIAL N. or PORTIO DURA of the 7th PAIR. Arises from upper part of laieral irdet of medulla, oblongata in groovi betwim oKvarv & resttform bodies. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle & from nucleus of motor root of 5th nerve, and also, by its accessory portion or portio intermedia of Wrisberg, from lateral column of cord. Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter and pprtio ipitermedia of Wrisberg lying between the two,^ Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: Outwards - between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where presents geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangliformis. Backwards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downwards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behind ramus of jaw into temporo.facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anserinus. Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION - Are: In Meatus Auditorius Internus: ^ One or two filaments to Auditory IsT, In Aqueductus Falloppii: Large Petrosal IST.-to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levatorpalati&^d&ygosuvu!oe ; Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati ^ tensor tympani; Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise from posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric. Auriculo-temporal - From temporo-facial branch. , ; Great 4^URicuLAR -From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches. On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N, BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Arej In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; CHORDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & base of pyramid} Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of G-laserian fissure j Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles J To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAR N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens aurem & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricu- laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastric. BRS. TO STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY or DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, and join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngeal. On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, and divides into temporal, malar <Sr* infraorbital branches, CERVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divides, into buccal, supramaxillary ^ inframaxillary branches These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles of expression of the face k the platysma, and anastomose with the ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves and with th©.' great auricular180 THE SALIVARY GLANDS-lst Tablet. I Are the parotid, submaxillary & sublingual, and numerous smaller glands situated beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth. They are all conglomerate or racemose glands. PAROTID GLAND Lies below & in front of external ear, and stretches forwards to a variable extent on outer surface of masseter, often presenting in that situation and just below zygoma, small detached portion, the sooia parotidia. Is bounded by: Above - Zygoma. Below - Line drawn from angle of jaw to sterno-mastoid. Behind -- External auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno.mastoid, posterior belly of digastric. Presents: Outer Surface - Lobulated. Covered by integument, fascia & a few fibres of platysma. Inner Surface - Prolonged deeply in front of and behind styloid process to- wards internal carotid & internal jugular vein, wall of pharynx & deep part of glenoid fossa. Ant. Surface - Grooved externally for posterior border of ramus, and pro- longed forwards, internally, between the two pterygoid muscles. Post. Surface -= Eests upon external auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno- mastoid, posterior belly of digastric* Is perforated by several Arteries - External carotid with its posterior auricular^ internal maxillary & temporal branches, and the transverse facial offset of the latter. Veins - Internal maxillary & temporal forming origin of external jugular, and a branch of communication between the latter & the internal jugular. Ntrtes -Facial, anriculo'temporal & deep facial branches of great auricular. ITS VESSELS & NERVES are — Arteries & Veins, from or to above mentioned trunks. - Lymphatics, to two or three lymphatic glands in substance & on surface of parotid, and from thence to superficial & deep glands of neck. -Nerves, from carotid plexus, auriculo-temporal & great auricular. PAROTID DUCT ( Steno's or Stenson's ) — Prom anterior border of the gland. ^ and from socia parotidis when it exists. ^ Over masseter a finger's breadth Deiow zygoma, its direction being marked by a line from lower part of concha to midway between free margin of the lip & ala of the nose. Through fat of cheek A buccinator, and obliquely beneath mucous membrane, which it perforates opposite 2nd molar tooth of upper jaw.HEAD & NECK. IV. PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION.182 THE SALIVARY GLANDS—1st Tablet. Are the parotid, submaxillary & sublingual, and numerous smaller glands situated beneath the mucous membrane of tbe mouth. They are all conglomerate or racemose glanda. PAROTID GLAND Lies below & in front of external ear, and stretches forwards to a variable erfcent on outer surface of masseter, often presenting in that situation and just below zygoma, small detached portion, tbe soeia parotidis. Is bounded by: Above - Zygoma. Below - Line drawn from angle of jaw to sterno-mastoid. Behind - External auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno-mastoid, posterior belly of digastric. Presents: Outer Surface - Lobulated. Covered by integument, fascia & a few fibres of platysma. Inner Surface - Prolonged deeply in front of and behind styloid process to- wards internal carotid & internal jugular vein, wall of pharynx & deep part of glenoid fossa. Ant. Surface - Grooved externally for posterior border of ramus, and pro- longed forwards, internally, between the two pterygoid muscles. Post. Surface - Rests upon external auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno- mastoid, posterior belly of digastric. Is perforated by several Arteries - External carotid with its postei'ior auricular^ intei-nal maxillary & temporal branches, and the transverse facial offset of the latter. "Veins - Internal maxillary ^ temporal forming origin of external jugular, and a branch of communication between the latter & the internal jugular. Nerves "Facial^ auriculo'temporal & deep facial branches of great auricular. ITS VESSELS & NEEVES are — Arteries & Veins, from or to above mentioned trunks. - Lymphatics, to two or three lymphatic glands in substance & on surface of parotid, and from thence to superficial & deep glands of neck. -Nerves, from carotid plexus, auriculo-temporal & great auricular. PAKOTID DUCT ( Steno's or Stenson's ) — Prom anterior border of the gland, and from socia parotidis when it exists. Over masseter a finger's breadth below zygoma, its direction being marked by a line from lower part of concha to midway between free margin of the lip & ala of the nose. Through fat of cheek & buccinator, and obliquely beneath mucoiMi membrane, which it perforates opposite ?nd molar tooth of upper jaw.183 FACIAL N. or PORTIO DURA of the 7th PAIR. Arises from upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove hetweeti olivary & restiform bodies. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle & from nucleus of motor root of 5th nerve, and also, by its accessory portion or portio intermedia of Wrisberg, from lateral column of cord. Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter and portio intermedia of Wrisberg lying between tha two. Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: - between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where presenta geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangliformis. Backwards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downwards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behind ramus of jaw into temporo-facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anseriQUS. Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. BRANCHES OP COMMUNICATION -Arej In Meatus Auditorius Internus: One or two filaments to Auditoey N, In Aqueductus Fallopii; Large Petrosal N.-to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levatorpalati&• azygos uvula ; Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati 6r> tensor tympani, Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise from posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric. Auriculo-temporal - From temporo-facial branch. Great Auricular - From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches. On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N. BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Are? In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; CHORDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & base of pyramid| Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of Glaserian fissure j Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles; To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAE. N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens anrem & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricn- laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastrio. BBS. TO STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY of DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, and join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngeal. On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, and divides into temporal^ malar dr* infraorbital branches. OEBrVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divides. into buccal, supramaxillary inframaxillary branches These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles of expression of the face & the platysma, and anastomose with the ophthalmic, superior & infprior maxillary nerves and with the, great aurionlar184 MUSCLES of the FACE—5th Tablet. ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the LOWER JAW. Masseter. Superficial Poktion - Anterior two-thirds of lower border of zygomatic arcb. Angle & lower half of outer surface of rainus. Deep Portion - Posterior third of lower border & inner surface of zygomatic arch. Upper half of outer surface of ramus & coronoid process. - S. by anterior or smaller division of inferior maxillary nerve. Temporal - Whole extent of temporal fossa, except anterior wall, inner surface of tem- poral fascia. Apex, inner surface & anterior border of coronoid process down to its root. - S. by anterior or smaller division of inferior maxillary nerve. Internal Pterygoid - Pterygoid fossa, and more particularly from inner surface of ex- ternal pterygoid plate, and from groove on pterygoid process of palate bone. Angle and inner surface of ramus as high as dental foramen. - S. by ante- rior or smaller division of inferior maxillary nerve. External Pterygoid. Upper Head - Pterygoid ridge & portion of under surface of great wing of sphenoid between it and base of pterygoid process. Lower Head - Outer surface of external pterygoid plate & tuberosity of superior i maxillary and palate bones. Depression on front of neck of condyle & inter articular fibro-cartilage of temporo-maxillary articulation. - S. by anterior or smaller division o£ inferior maxillary nerve.185 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. Is a double or bilateral condyloid articulation (Oruveilhier) comprised betweewi the condyles of the lower jaw, on the one hand, and the anterior root of the zygoma & anterior part of the glenoid cavity, on the other. The articulation is divided into two by an interarticular fibre- cartilage, and presents two synovial membranes, of which the upper one is the largest & loosest. The interarticular fibrocartilage is thickest at the periphery, especially behind; its upper surface is concavo-convex from before backwards; its under surface is concave; its circumference is connected externally to the external lateral ligament, internally & in front to the tendon of the external pterygoid. - Occasionally it is perforated in the centre, the two synovial membranes then communicating. LIGAMENTS-Are: -Capsular - Thin & loose} from Circumference of glenoid ccojify 6* eminenfia articularis to Neck of Condyle External Lateral - Broad band downwards & backwards from Outer surface &^ tubercle of zygoma to Outer surface ^ posterior border of neck of condyle* Internal Lateral - Long & thin band from spine of sphenoid to Inner margin of dentalforamen. -It is related externally the to external pterygoid muscle, internal maxillary artery, and inferior dental vessels & nerve, Stylo-Maxillary - Long thin band of somewhat secondary importance from Apex of styloid process to Angle 6^ posterior border of ramus of jaw, where it spreads out considerably and marks the separation between parotid & submaxillary glands. MOVEMENTS - Are depression, elevation, projection, retraction, lateral displacement & cir- cumduction. In slight movements of elevation & depression the condyles simplj rotate on a transverse axis upon the interarticular fibrocartilages. In moro extensive movements not only do the condyles rotate as above, but they also pass forwards with the interarticular fibrocartilages upon the eminentiae articu- lares, the displacement being due to the laxity of the superior synovial mem- brane & to the action of the external lateral ligament. This displacement also takes place on the two sides alternately in the lateral or grinding move- ment of the jaw, and on both sides simultaneously in the projection of the jaw forwards.186 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. Commences iu substance of parotid gland behind neck of condyle. May be divided into three portions: FIRST or MAXILLARY PORTION — Forwards beneath tendon of external pterygoid, and between neck of condyle & internal lateral ligament of jaw, crossing inferior dental nerve. Gives off Tympanic, Middle meningeal, Small meningeal, Inferior dental. SECOND or PTERYGOID PORTION — Forwards & upwards on outer surface of external pterygoid, between it & temporal muscle. Gives off two Deep temporal, Masseteric, Pterygoid, & Buc- cal. THIRD or SPHENO-MAXILLARY PORTION - Into spheno-max- illary fossa between the two heads of external pterygoid. Gives off Alveolar, Infraorbital, Vidian, Pterygo-palatine, Sup. or descending palatine. Nasal or Spheno-palatine. Sometimes the artery passes behind, and along inner surface of, external pterygoid muscle, between it & internal pterygoid.187 BRANCHES of the INTERNAL MAXILLARY. Tympanic - Through Glaserian fissure to tympanum, where joins with stylo-mastoid. Middle or Great Meningeal - Through foramen spinosum, and divides into: Anterior Branch - Across great wing of sphenoid to groove or canal on anterior inferior angle of parietal, and divides into numerous branches to dura mater & skull. Posterior Branch - Crosses squamous portion of temporal bone, and divides into similar branches. Gives twigs to facial nerve through hiatus Fallopii, which twigs join with stylo-mastoid. Small Meningeal - Arises frequently from precedingj through foramen ovale to dura mater of middle fossa. Inferior Dental - With inferior dental nerve, similarly dividing opposite first bicuspid tooth into incisor & mental branches, and likewise giving off Mylo-hyocd bi'anch - Along mylo-hyoid groove to mylo-hyoid muscle. Deep Temporal - Two, anterior and posterior. Ascend between temporal muscle & pericranium. Pterygoid - Vary in number and precise mode of origin. Masseteric - Through sigmoid notch to masseter. Buccal - Forwards upon buccinator to structures of cheek, joining with facial. Alveolar - Descends upon tuberosity of superior maxilla, and divides into numerous branches to molar teeth, gums & lining membrane of antrum. Infraorbital - Through infraorbital canal with superior maxillary nerve. Sends small twigs into orbit, and others to front teeth through canals in anterior wall of antrum, and divides beneath levator labii superioris into: Ascending branches - To inner angle of eye, where they join with nasal; Descending branches - To upper lip; join with transverse facial, superior coronary & buccal. Vidian - With vidian nerve through vidian canal to upper part of pharynx & Eustachian tube; gives a twig to tympanum. PterygO-Palatine - With pharyngeal or pterygo-palatine nerve through pterygo-palatine canal to upper part of pharynx & Eustachian tube. Superior or Descending Palatine - Descends with anterior or great palatine nerve through posterior palatine canal, sending twigs to soft palate. Forwards in groove on hard palate, giving twigs to mucous membrane & gums, and ascends through incisor foramen to join artery of septum. Nasal or Spheno-Palatine - Through sphenopalatine foramen with superior nasal & naso- palatine nerves, and divides into: Internal Branch or Artery of Septum - Downwards & forwards along septum, and joins with termination of descending palatine. External Branches - Two or three to mucoua membrane of outer wall of nose, and to ethmoidal & sphenoidal cells & Antrum.188 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The largest of the three divisions. Both sensory & motor, its two roots uniting immedinteiy after their exit from foramen ovale. Divides a few lines below base of skull into: ANTERIOR or SMALLER DIVISION -- Principally motor. Divides into : MsiSSeteric Br. - Outwards above external pterygoid muscle and through sigmoid notch to masseter. Gives off a twig to temporo-maxillary articulation & some- times one to temporal muscle. Deep TeMaporal Brs. - Two, anterior & posterior. Outwards above external ptery- goid muscle and reflected upwards at pterygoid ridge to temporal muscle. Are sometimes joined, anterior one with buccal nerve, posterior one with masseteric. Buccal Br. - Pierces external pterygoid, and forwards on buccinator, giving filaments to temporal muscle, integument & mucous membrane. Pterygoid Brs. - Two, to internal & external pterygoid muscles. Branch to internal pterygoid gives off motor root to otic ganglion. Branch to external pterygoid is frequently derived from buccal. POSTERIOR or LARGER DIVISION — Sensory with a few motor fibres. Divides into; AuriculO-temporal N. - Has generally two roots which embrace middle meningeal artery. Backwards beneath external pterygoid & neck of condyle; Upwards with temporal artery between condyle & external ear under cover of parotid gland, and divides into: Auricular Brs. - Inferior & superior, to outer surface of pinna, join- ing with great auricular. Temporal Brs. - Anterior & posterior; with branches of temporal artery to skin of temporal region & vertex. Jrnns facial nerve behind neck of condyle usually by two branched; gives off sensory root of otic ganglion and filaments to parotid gland & temporo-maxillary articulation. Gustatory or Lingual N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where it lies on. inner side & in front of inferior dental nerve, and is joined by chorda tympani ; Above deep portion of submaxillary gland & along side of tongue, crossing Whar- ton's duct. Supplies mucous membrane of mouth & gums, submucous glands, conical & fun- giform papillae and mucous membrane of tongue. Gives sensory branches to submaxillary ganglion, and anastomoses with hypo- glossal nerve on anterior margin of hyo-glossus & near tip of tongue. Inf. Dental N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where lies behind & on outer side of gustatory j Between ramus & internal lateral ligament of temporo-maxillary articulation to dental foramen, where gives off nerve to mylo-hyoid muscle. Along inferior dental canal, giving branches to molar & bicuspii teeth, & divi- des at mental foramen into: Incisor Br. - Onwards in dental canal to canine & incisor teeth. Mental Br. — Divides beneath depressor anguli oris into numerous branches to muscles, skin & mucous membrane of lower lip. KERVE TO MYLO-HYOID - Along groove on inner surface of ramus to under surface of mylo-hyoid & anterior belly of digastric N.—-All the terminal branches of the 5th nerve upon the face. join with faoi^il nerve.HEAD & NECK. V. SUB-MAXILLARY REGION. 24190 MUSCLES. Digastric - Digastric groove on inner side of mastoid process. - Perforates stylo-hyoid and is held in connection with body & great cornu of hyoid bone by an apon- eurotic loop lined with synovial membrane, from which loop it is reflected upwards & forwards to Rough depression on inner lip of lower border of jaw bone close to sym- physis. - S., posterior belly by facial nerve, anterior belly by mylo-hyoid branch of inferior dental nerve. Stylo-Hyoid - Middle of outer surface of styloid process. Body of hyoid bone at its junction with great cornti. - S. by facial nerve. ]},lylo-Hyoid - Whole length of mylo-hyoid ridge. Body of hyoid bone & median raph^ from hyoid bone to symphysis. - S. mylo-hyoid branch of inferior dental nerve. Genio-Hyoid - inferior genial tubercle. Anterior surface of body of hyoid bona - S. by hypoglossal nerve. 1191 FACIAL ARTERY. Arises above lingual beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Forwards & upwards beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid & submaxillary gld. Crosses jaw bone in front of masseter. Forwards and upwards to angle of mouth upon buccinator & beneath platysmn. Upwards beneath zygomatici and upon levator anguli oris and the levators of the lip & ala of the nose to inner canthus, where becomes angular artery and joins with ophthalmic. Is very tortuous in its course. Facial vein lies behind it, and is less tortuous. Gives off branches: Inferior or Ascending Palatine - Dips beneath ramus of jaw. Ascends between stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus and then upon superior constric- tor in front of ascending pharyngeal, and supplies tonsil & soft palate. Tonsillar - Ascends upon and perforates sup. constrictor to tonsil & root of tongue. Submaxillary - Three or four, to submaxillary gland & surrounding muscles. Submental - Foi'wards on under surface of mylo-hyoid, and between it and digastric to symphysis, where ascends upon chin. Inf. Labial - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, below following artery to tissues of lower lip. Inf. Coronary - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, and tortuous', course through substance of orbicularis and between it & mucous membrane, anastomosing with its fellow. Sup. Coronary - Larger and more tortuous; similar course along free edge of upper lip, giving twigs to ala and artery of septum to septum of nose. Lateralis Nasi - To ala and dorsum of nose. Angular - To inner canthus, supplying lachrymal sac and anastomosing with nasal branch of ophthalmic. All these branches anastomose freely with each other, with those of the oppo- site side, and with the menta], transverse facial, infra-orbital, ophthal- mic, sublingual, posterior superior or descending palatine and ascending pharyngeal arteries.192 THE SALIVARY GLANDS—2nd Tablet. SUBMAXILLARY GLAND Intermediate in size between parotid & snblingnal. Presents two portions t Superficial Portion - The largest. Covered by - Skin, superficial fascia, platysma, deep fascia, body of lower jaw. Jiesis upon - Stylo- & hyo-glossi & mylo-hyoid. Separated posteriorly from parotid by - Stylo-maxillary ligament. Grooved posteriorly <5r» above by - Facial artery. Deep Portion - The smallest. Prolonged upwards forwards &* inwards ronnd Wharton's dnct, between mylo- hyoid and hyo- & genio-hyo-glossi & below gustatory nerve. WHARTON'S DUCT — Upwards forwards & inwards with deep portion of the gland on inner side of sublingual gland, and opens on summit of a small papilla on side of fraenum linguae. Is about 2 inches long, and has much thinner walls than Steno's ductj it receives a few of the ductus Riviniani. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries^ from facial & lingual. - Nerves^ from submaxillary ganglion, sympathetic & mylo*hyoid branch of inferior dental. SUBLINGUAL GLAND The smallest, flattened, & almond-shaped. Projects beneath mucous membrane of floor of mouth in the shape of a firm antero- posterior crest. Lies upon mylo-hyoid by side of fraenum linguae & in sublingual fossa of lower jaw. Has behind it 6^ on its inner side genio-hyo-glossus, gustatory nerve, Wharton's duct & deep portion of submaxillary gland. DUCTUS RIVINIANI — From 8 to 20. Open most of them directly into the mouth, some into Wharton's duct. One, longer than the others, the duct of Bartholin, which is sometimes derived in part from submaxillary gland, accompanies the Whartonian duct, and opens into it or near it on floor of mouth. Vessels & Neeves - ArterieSf from sublingual & submental branches of facial. - NerveSf from gxistatory.193 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE Arises by ten or twelve filaments from groove detween anterior pyramid ^ olivary body in a line continuous with that of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. These filaments form two bundles which perforate dura mater separately, and pass together through anterior condyloid foramen. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on lower part of floor of 4th ventricle. Passes downwards and forwards between pneumogastric & spinal accessory ns., with former of which it is intimately connected, and between int. jugular vein & int. carotid. Loops round occipital artery and passes forwards across external carotid below post, belly of digastric. Passes beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid and crosses hyo-glossus, near ant. border of which it anastomoses with gustatory. Passes beneath mylo-hyoid to muscles & substance of the tongue. BRS. OF COMMUNICATION — Join with, Gr. of the trunk of the pneumogastric; '^ Sup. cervical g. of the sympathetic j > Arise near base of sknlL Loop between the two first cervical ns. J Gustatory n. —Arises near ant. border of hyo-glossus. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION - Are the : Descendens Noni — Long & slender. Arises just beneath occipital artery. Passes downwards & forwards across sheath of carotid vessels. ( Sometimes within the sheath, either over or beneath int. jugular vein). Near middle of neck forms a loop with Communicans Noni, from convexity of which loop, brs. are given off to sterno-hyoid & -thyroid and omo-hyoid This br. is believed to derive its real origin principally from the 1st & 2nd cervical ns., and to have little more than an apparent origin from the hypoglossal, due to a temporary adhesion of its fibres to those of that nerve. Sometimes, owing to similar adhesions, it appears to arise from the pneumogastric either wholly or in part. Brs. to Thyro-hyoid & Genio-hyoid — Arise on surface of hyo-glossus. Brs. to Stylo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyo-glossus & subs- tance of the tongue. — Arise beneath jnylO'byoid. 24a194 LINGUAL or GUSTATORY NERVE. From posterior or larger division of inferior maxillary. Between the two pterygoid muscles, where it lies on inner side and in front of inferior dental nerve, and is joined by chorda tympani. Above deep portion of submaxillary gland and along side of tongue, crossing Wharton's duct. Supplies mucous membrane of mouth and gums, submucous glands, conical and fungiform papillae and ^ mucous membrane of tongue. Gives sensory brancaes to submaxillary ganglion, and anastomoses with hypo-glossal nerve on anterior margin of hyo-glossus and near tip of tongu<^, SUB-MAXILARY GANGLION. fieddish grey circular body about the size of a pin's head situated between gustatory nerve & deep portion of submaxillary gland. It presents: THREE ROOTS: Sensory Root - From gustatory nerve by several small filaments. Motor Root - From facial nerve through chorda tympani. Sympathetic Root - From plexus around facial artery. BRS, OF DISTRIBUTION — Five or six to mucous membrane cf mouth, Wharton's duct & submaxillary gland195 LINGUAL AETERY. Arises a little below hyoid bone beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Upwards & forwards upon middle constrictor to great cornu of hyoid bone. Horizon1»ally forwards above great cornu beneath hyo-glossus, digastric & stylo-hvoid. Upwards on genyo-hyo-glossus. Forwards with gustatory nerve on under surface of lingualis inferior, and then beneath mucous membrane to tip of tongue under name of ranine. - Gives off brg j Hyoid - Small; along upper border of hyoid bone and joins with ita fellow. Dorsalis LingUSB - A-Scends on genyo-hyo-glossus to dorsum of tongue, epi- glottis, soft palate & tonsil. Sublingual - Forwards between mylo-hyoid & mucous membrane to sublingual glandi Ranine - The terminal branch 5 ioina with its fellow at tip of tongu©.196 GLOSSO-PHABYNGEAL NERVE. The smallest of the three divisions of the 8th pair. Arises from tateraC tract of medulla oblongata abovepnetwtogastric. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle, Through anterior & inner part of jugular foramen in front of pneumogastric & spinal accessory and in a separate sheath, grooving lower border of petrous portion of temporal bone and presenting two ganglia: Sup. or Jugular G. or G. of the Eoot — Small, and involves only the outer fibies; Inf. of Petrous G. or G. of Andersch — Larger, and involves whole of fibres. Gives off from petrous ganglion: Tympanic branch or jfacobson's nerve^ described below ; Anastomotic br. io ganglion of the root dr» to auricular br. of the pneumogastric ; and from a little below the ganglion: Anastomotic br. to facial nerve. This branch pierces post, belly of digastric. Downwards & forwards in front of pneumogastric & between int. carotid & int. jugular vein. Beneath styloid process & muscles connected with it to lower border of stylo-pharyngeus. Curves inwards upon stylo-pharyngeus & middle constrictor. Beneath hyo-glossus to mucous membrane of fauces & base of tonguo. BRANCHES: | Tympanic Br. or JaCObson's N. Arises from petrous ganglion. Ascends through small canal in petrous bone to tympanum, where divides into ; Bes. op Communication — To carotid plexus and great &=> small petrosal branches of facial. Brs. op Distribution — To fenestra rotunda, fenestra oralis ^ mucous mem- brane of Eustachian tube. Carotid Brs. —■ Descend on internal carotid artery, and join pharyngeal brs. of pneumogastric, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic. Pliaryngeal Brs. —Three or fouri form pharyngeal plexus by joining opposite middle constrictor with pharyngeal brs. of pneumogastric, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic. Muscular Brs. — To stylo=pharyngeus & constrictors of pharynx. Tonsillar Brs. "-=• To tonsil, forming tonsillar plezus, branches of which are distri. buted to soft palate & fauces, i Lingual Brs» To mucous membrane of base & side of tonerue.197 THE TONGUE-lst Tablet. Presents for examination: BASE - Connected to: Soft palate - By anterior pillars of fances} . Pharynx — By superior constrictors of pharynx & nmcons membrane % Epiglottis - By three folds of mucous membrane, the glosso-epiglottic ligamenti | Hyoid bone - By hyo-glossi & genio-hyo-glossi muscles. APEX-T'ree. UPPER SURFACE OR DORSUM — Rough in its anterior two-thirds, where it presents the papillx minimce or conicce et filiformeSi and the papillae medice or fungi' formes \ smooth in its posterior third, or behind the papillae maximce or circumvallntc^-. where it presents the projecting orifices of nnmerous mucous glands. UNDER SURFACE — Connected to hyoid bone & lower jaw by hyo-glossi & genio-hyo. glossi muscles, and from sides of which the mucous membrane is reflected orei floor of mouth to inner surface of gums, forming in front a prominent fold, the frsenum lingues. STRUCTURE of the TONGUE Presents for examination: Osteo-fibrous Support - Consists ofi Hyoid Bone ; V Median Fibrous Septum -r Thickest behind, where it is attached to epi- glottis. Hyg-glossal Membrane - Connects under surface of tongue to hyoid bone. To these may be added the Thick mucous Membrane on the dorsum op the organ. Muscular fibres - Vide next Tablet. Mucous Membrane - "Vide next Tablet but one. Vessels & Nerves. Arteries - Lingual^ inferior or ascending palatine branches of facial, ascending pharyngecil. "Veins - Partly correspond to arteries, partly open into pterygoid plexus. Lymphatics - To submaxillary glands. Nerves - Are the: i Gustatory to mucous membrane of anterior two-thirds, Glosso-pharyngeal to mucous membrane of posterior third & sides; Hypoglossal to the muscles. Jntemai branch of the superior laryngeal sends a few twigs to mu- cous membrane of base. — A few small ganglia are found (Kolliker, Bemak) upon the glosso-pharyngeal and, in the sheep & calf, upon the gustatory.THE T0NGUE-2nd Tablet. MUSCULAR FIBRES. Form extrinsic & intrinsic mnsoles. EXTRmSIC MUSCLES Are the: Stylo-gloSSUS - Anterior & outer aspect of styloid process near its apex & stylo- maxillary ligament. Side of base of tongue externally to hyo-glossus, dividing into : Longitudinal portion - Forwards along side of tongue, and blends with lingualis inferior in front of hyo-glossus. Tbansverse portion - Decussates with hyo-glossus & with its fellow. Hyo-glossus - Side of body, lesser cornu & whole length of great cornu of hyoid bone ( basio-glossus, chondro-glossus, cerato-glossus). Side of under surface of tongue between stylo-glossus & lingualis inferior. Genio-hyo-gloSSUS - By a short tendon from superior genial tubercle on inner surface of boly of jaw-bone close to symphysis. Whole length of under surface of tongue internally to lingualis in- ferior, side of pharynx, body of hyoid bone. Palato-glossns or Constrictor Isthmi Paucium - Anterior surface of soft palate close to uvula. Side of base of tongue, blending with stylo-glossus. INTRINSIC MUSCLES Are the: Lingualis transversns ~ Median septum. Sides, and sides of dorsum. Forms the chief bulk of the tongue. Lingualis Superior - Stratum of longitudinal or slightly oblique fibres thickest ■ in front, and covering dorsum of tongue beneath the mucous membrane to which the individual fibres are attached. Lingualis Inferior - Longitudinal band of fibres along whole length of under surface of tongue between hyo-glossus & genio-hyo-glossus. Blends with stylo-glossus in front of hyo-glossus. Lingualis Perpendicular is-Set of vertical or slightly oblique fibres from central part of dorsum to sides of under surface, forming curves concave upwards & outwards. The outer parts, or cortex, of the tongue are firm, and consist mainly of longitudinal fibres j the central part, or nucleus, is softer, and cjflRifits mainly of transverse & vertical fibres intermingled with , , adipose tissue-199 THE TONGUE-3rd Tablet. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Thick & rough on xmterior two-thirds of dorsum, sides, & tipj thin & smooth on posterior third of dorsum & on under surface. Consists of a cutis or corium dense & very similar to that of the skin, and of a thick layer of squamous epithelium j and presents : PAPILLA — Highly sensitive vascular projections divisible into simple and compound. The former are similar to the papillae of the skin, and cover whole of tongue; the latter, which are themselves studded with simple papillae, are found on rough surface only, and are divided according to their size & shape into • Papillse Maximss or Circumvallatse - ^'rom 7 to 12 j situated at junction of middle & posterior thirds of dorsum, where they are arranged in two rows oblique backwards & inwards, which rows meet at foramen coecum and form together an inverted V. They consist of a central conical projection, the base of which is free while its apex is attached, which projection is contained in a cup-shaped depression bounded itself by a prominent circular rim. - The foramen coecum is the central depression, usually large, which lodges the central papilla, itself frequently small. Papillse Medise or Fungiformes - Club-shaped, and present narrow attached & rounded free extremities. Sparingly scattered over anterior two-thirds of dorsum, collected in greater numbers over sides & tip. Papillse Minimse, or Conicse et FiliformeS - Tapering or cylindrical, closely packed over whole of rough surface, and arranged in rows which are vertical • ' on borders & tip, and which are, on dorsum, parallel, posteriorly, to the rows of circumvallate papillse, but, anteriorly, more directly transverse. - The . . simple or secondary papillae borpe by the filiform papillse contain a few elastic fibres, and their epithelial sheaths are prolonged beyond them sometimes to the extent of forming a pencil of almost hair.like fibres. In the fungiform & circumvallate, and probably also in the filiform papillse, the nerves form plexuses, from which small brush-like filaments are given off to the secondary papillse. These filaments are believed to terminate in the deep extremities of spindle-shaped nucleated bodies similar to the olfactory cells of Shultze (Billroth, Key). GLANDS - Are: Follicular - Aggregated on posterior third of dorsum behind papillse circumvallatse, and very similar to the follicular recesses of the tonsils. Racemose - Lie beneath & in front of foregoing, and over sides & under surface of tongue. On under surface near tip they are collected into two small oblong masses first described by Blandin & Nuhn.200 THE TASTE-BUDS. Are flask-like bodies discovered by Loven & Schwalbe in the thick epithelial layer which surrounds the sides of the circumvallate papillae of the base of the tongue, and which have also been found of late on some of the fungiform papillas and on the epiglottis. They are pyriform in shape. Their bases rest upon the chorium. Their apices project between the superficial epithelial cells, and present a minute opening, from which a bundle of thread-like processes are seen to emerge. They consist of modified epithelial cells, disposed perpendicularly to the surface, which cells may be divided into superficial & deep. The superficial cells are flattened, or ribbon-like, tapering at each end, and joined together at their sides, so as to enclose the deeper cells, as, in the flower-bud, the external scales surround the internal folioles. The deeper cells are spindle- shaped, enlarged in their middle, where they present a prominent nucleus, and tapering at either end. Their deeper end, which is sometimes branched, passes down into the chorium, and, it is said, becomes connected with a nerve-fibril. Their more superficial end is prolonged into one of the thread-like processes, which are seen to pi-oject from the opening of the taste-bud. The surrounding epithelial cells are flattened around the taste-buds, so as to enclose them in a sac or nest. The taste-buds are now believed not to be connected with the sense of taste, since they are found on the epiglottis, which is not endowed with taste.HEAD & NECK VI. THE ORBIT. 25202 THE ORBIT. Quadrilateral pyramidal fossa looking forwards & outwards and formed by seven bones, tlie frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid ( which enter into formation of both orbits), supe. rior maxillary, malar, lachrymal & palate. Communicates with cranium, and with nasal, temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossaB through optic foramen, nasal duct & spheno-maxillary fissure. Presents: ROOF — Formed by orbital plate of frontal & lesser wing of sphenoid. Is concave, and pre- sents the suture between the foregoing bones, and in front the Lachrymalfossa for lacrymal gland, and a Depression (fovea trochlearis ) for pulley of superior oblique. FLOOR — Formed by upper or orbital surface of superior maxillary and orbital processes of malar & palate bones. Presents the sutures between foregoing bones, the Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which becomes converted in front into Infra-orbital canal; and also at its anterior & inner part a Depression for inferior oblique muscle. INNER WALL — Formed from before backwards by nasal process of superior maxillary, ! lachrymal, os planum of ethmoid, body of sphenoid. Is antero-posterior in direction and parallel to its fellow, and presents the sutures between foregoing bones and the Lachrymal groove for lachrymal sac. Crest of lachrymal bone for tensor tarsi muscle. OUTER WALL — Formed in front by orbital process of malar bone, and behind by ante- rior or orbital surface of great wing of sphenoid. Is very oblique forwards & outwards being nearly at right angles with its fellow, and presents the suture between foregoing bones, and the Orifices of one or two malar canals, Small spine for lower head of external rectus. ANGLES: % ^UP. EXTERNAL -Presents: Articulation of frontal with malar bone & orbital plate of iiphenoid, j Sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterim for 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves and ophthalmi( ( nerve & vein SUP. INTERNAL - Presents Suture connecting frontal with lachrymal & os planum, in which suture are the Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal nerve & anterior ethmoidal vessels, and the Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. INF. EXTERNAL-Presents Spheno-maxillary fissure for infra-orbital vessels & nerve and ascending brancheB of Meckel's ganglion. INF. INTERNAL-Presents Articulation of superior maxillary & palate bones with lachrymal & os planum. CIRCUMFERENCE OR BASE — Quadrilateral, looks forwards & outwards. Ii bounded by supra-ort^tal arch and external & internal angular procesaeB of frontal, anterior border of orbital surface & nasal process of superior maxillary, and anterior border of malar bone. Presents Supra-orbital notch or foramen for supra-orbital vessels & nerve j and assists in forminj r lachrymal groove tov lachrymal sac. APEX Corresponds to optic foramen for optic nerve & ODhthalmio artery.203 FOURTH NERVE, TROCHLEARIS or PATHETIOUS. Arises from upper part of valve of Vieussens immediately behind the testis. — Deep origin is from two grey nuclei situated on floor of aqueduct of Sylvius & on uppei part of floor of 4th ventricle. Crosses processus e cerebello ad testes and winds round under surface of crus cerebri immediately in front of pons Varolii Pierces dura mater in free border of tentoriun cerebelli near posterior clinoid process. Through outer wall of cavernous sinus below 3rd nerve and above ophthalmic branch of the 5th, receiving filaments from ophthalmic branch & from carotid plexus: Through highest and broadest part of sphenoidal fissure. Inwards above levator palpebrae superioris to orbital surface of superior oblique.204 FIFTH NEBVE. Arises by two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, from side of pons Varolii nearer to upper than to lower border. Its deep origin is said to be from lateral tract of medulla behind olivary body, from grey nucleus on floor of 4tli ventricle between restiform body & fasciculi teretes, from tubercle of Eolando; its motor root appears to arise from pyramidal body. Through opening in dura mater near apex of petrous portion of temporal bone. Sensory root to Gasserian ganglion; motor root to inferior maxillary nerve outside cranium, Gasserian ganglion - Crescentic. Situated in a depression near apex of pe- trous portion of temporal bone, and receives filaments from carotid plex. Gives off anteriorly ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary ner'?^es, and laterally, small branches to tentorium cerebelli & dura mater of middle fossa, and one to 6th nerve in cavernous sinus. OPHTHALMIC NERVE — The smallest of the three divisions of the 5th pair. Through outer wall of cavernous sinus below 3rd & 4th nerves, being joined by filaments from cavernous plexus and frequently from 4th nerve, and giving oflf recurrent branches to tentorium. Divides near sphenoidal fissure into lachrymal, frontal, nasal. LACHRYMAL N. - The smallest. Through outer & narrowest part of sphenoidal fissure, and along upper border of exter- nal rectus to lachrymal gland, conjunctiva & skin of upper eyelid. — Joins with orbital branch of superior maxillary nerve. FRONTAL N. — The largest. Through highest & broadest part of sphenoidal fissure j Along middle line of orbit between levator palpebrae superioris & periosteum, and divi- des into: SUPEAORBITAL BR. — The largest. Through supraorbital foramen or notch, and ascends to corrugator supercilii, occipito-frontalis & orbicularis pal- pebrarum, and to periosteum & integument, the cutaneous branches, two in number, lying at first beneath the muscles. SUPRATROCHLEAR BR. — The smallest. Above pulley of supenor oblique, and same destribution. Joins with infratrochlear branch of nasaL NASAL N.—Intermediate in size. Vide p. 207.205 THIRD NERVE or MOTOR OCULI. Arises from inner border ofcrus cerebri immediately in front of pons Varolii. -— Deep origii is from locus niger, tubercula quadrigemina, valve of Vieussens & grey nucleus on floor of aqueduct of Sylvius. Pierces dura mater on outer side of and a little behind, anterior clinoid process. Througli outer wall of cavernous sinus above 4th nerve & ophthalmic branch of 5th, being joined by filaments from cavernous plexus. Divides into superior & inferior branches, which pass through sphenoidal fissure between the two heads of external rectus. Superior Be. - The smallest. Inwards above optic nerve to levator palpebrce superioris & superior rectus. Inpeeior Br. - The largest. To internal inferior recti and inferior oblique. — SiiOET or MoTOE ROOT OP LENTICULAR GANGLION is derived from nerve to inferior oblique. ^MUSCLES. ORIGINS. Internal & Inferior Recti & Lower Head of External Rectus - Incomplete fibrous ring termed the ligament of Zinn, which surrounds optic foramen, except at its upper & outer ppi fc. - jLower head of external rectus also arises from a small spine on orbital surface of greater wing of sphenoid. Superior Rectus & Upper Head of External Rectus - Upper margin & upper part of outer margin of optic foramen. Levator Falpebrse Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen & externally to superior oblique. Superior Oblique - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen & internally to levator palpebrae superioris. Inferior Oblique - Depression on orbital plate of superior maxilla close to lachrymal groove. INSERTIONS. The Four Recti - Fore part of sclerotic about four lines from cornea. Superior & Inferior Oblique - Upper & outer part of sclerotic between superior & external recti and midway between cornea & optic nerve. Levator Falpebrse Superioris - Upper border of superior tarsal cartilage. NERYE-SUPPLY — Levator palpebra3 superioris & superior rectus, upper division ef Zrd nerve; - internal & inferior recti and inferior oblique, lower division ofZrd nerve: - superior oblique, nerve ; - external rectus, nerv^207 NASAL NERVE. Intermerliate in size heiwoen the ];iclirymal & frontal. Between the t wo heads of external rectus, and forwards & inwards across optic nerve. Through anterior ethmoidal foramen, and through groove on cribriform plate & slit by crista galli to nose, where divides into Internal Br. — To mucous membrane of fore part of septum; ExTEBNAL Br. — In groove on inner surface of nasal bone, between that bone & lateral cartilage, and downwards to tip of nose beneath compressor nasi supplying mucous membrane & integument. Gives off • GANGLIONIC BR. — Long & slender; to posterior superior angle of ciliary ganglion, forming its long or sensory root. LONG CILIARY NS. —Two or three; join ciliary nerves from ciliary gang- lion. (Vide Ciliary Ganglion). INFRATROCHLEAR BR. — Beneath pulley of superior oblique, where joins ■ with supratrochlear branch of frontal, to orbicularis, lachrymal sac, carun. cula, conjunctiva & skin of eyelids.208 CILIAEY, OPHTHALMIC or LENTICULAR GANGLION, Reddish grey quadrangular body of the size of a pin*s head eituated at back of orbit on outer side of optic nerve. — Presents; THREE ROOTS: Sensory^ or Long & Slender Root — From nasat branch of oj!>hthalmtc to poHt. erior superior angle of ganglion; is accompanied iDy the sympathetio root, which is sometimes blended with it. Motor^ or Short & Thick Root — From branch of Zrd nerve to inferior oblique to posterior inferior angle; is occasionally divided into two parts. Sympathetic Root — Long & slender filament from cavernous plexus; accom- panies sensory root, with which it is sometimes blended. BRS. OP DISTRIBUTION: Ciliary Ns. — Ten or twelve from anterior angles of ganglion, forming a small superior & a large inferior bundle j Forwards above & below optic nerve with ciliary branches of nasal j Through back part of sclerotic, and in grooves on its inner surface to ciliary mueole, cornea A iris.209 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. Arises from internal carotid as that vessel emerges from oavernons sinus between optio nerre 4 anterior olinoid process. Through optic foramen below & on outer side of optio nerve. Over optio nerve, and forwards beneath superior oblique to superior internal angle of orbit, where divides into frontal & nasal. BRANCHES -— May be divided iutoi ORBITAL GROUP: Ladirymal - With lachrymal nerve & above external rectus to lachrymal glanfi & upper eyelid. Gives off small malar & temporal branches, which per- ' forate malar bone to temporal fossa & cheek. Supraorbital - With frontal nerve & above the muscles to supraorbital foramen, where divides into superficial «fe deep branches to integument & masole? of forehead & pericranium. ethmoidal - Anterior & posterior. Through anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina (former with nasal nerve), giving branches to ethmoidal cells & dura mater, and then through foramina in cribriform plate of ethmoid to septum & outer wall of nose. Palpebral - Superior & inferior. Encircle eyelids near free margin & beneath orbicularis, and anastomose with infraorbital & with orbital branch o^ temporal. Frontal — From orbit at its superior internal angle to skin & muscles of forehead & pericraaium, joining with supraorbital. Nasal - Above tendo oouli, and divides into dorsalis nasi to dorsum of nose and anastomotic branch to angular branch of facial OCULAR group: Muscular - Very variable, usually divided into: SuPEiiioE - Smaller, to levator palpebrse superioris, superior rectus & supe. rior oblique; Inferioe - Larger, to inferior oblique & the other recti, and gives off most of the anterior ciliary arteries. Ciliary - May be divided into: SHOKT POSTERIOR - Surround optio nerve, and through sclerotic a line or two from the^erve to ciliary processes & choreic! LONG - Two. Through back part of sclerotic, and between sclerotic & choroid on either side of eyeball to ciliary body, where bifurcate and form great arterial circle of iris, from which small twigs converge to free margin of iris forming lesser arterial circie. ANTERIOR - Chiefly from muscular. Through sclerotic a line or two from margin of cornea to great arterial circle of iris. Centralis RetinSS - Pierces optic nerve, and forwards in its substance to retina. In foetus a small branch passes forwards through vitreous body to posterior part of capsule of lens.210 SECOND or OPTIC NERVE. Presents for examination the optic tract, the optic commissure & the optic nerve proper. OPTIC TRACT Begins in the anterior & posterior quadrigeminal bodies by two distinct bundles of fibres, which pass between the corpora geniculata internum et externum, become respectively connected with and receive fibres from the latter, unite, and receive additional fibres from the optic thalamus. Winds obliquely forwards across under surface of crus cerebri, being flattened in shape and slightly attached to the crus by its anterior margin. Leaves the crus as a round bundle and becomes connected with the lamina cinerea & the tuber cinereum^ from both of which it is said to receive additional fibres. Joins its fellow to form optic commissure. OPTIC COMMISSURE or CHIASMA le formed as follows: A few of the outer fibres of each optic tract pass into the optic nerve of the same side. The mass of the fibres decussate, and pass into the optic nerve of the opposite side. A few of the innermost fibres, termed the inter-cerebral fibres, pass back to the cere- brum, forming the posterior fibres of the commissure and the innermost fibres of the optic tract of the opposite side. A few similar fibres, termed the inter-retinal fibres, pass along the anterior border of the commissure from one optic nerve to the other. OPTIC NERVE Througli^^ptic foramen, being surrounded by a tubular process of the dura mater, which, as the nerve enters the orbit, subdivides, and both continues the sheath of the optio nerve, and forms the periosteum of the orbit. Pierces sclerotic and choroid about one tenth of an inch to the imner side of the axis of the eye, and expands into the retina. - The arteria centralis retinsa pierces the optio nervOi and runs forwards in its substance to the retina.211 SIXTH NERVE or ABDUCENS. Arises by several filaments from constricted part of corpus pyratnidale close to pons Varolii or from lower border of pons itself. — Deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4tli ventricle. Pierces dura mater on basilar groove immediately below posterior clinoid process. Forwards on floor of cavernous sinus on outer side of internal carotid artery, receiving filaments from carotid plexus, Meckel's ganglion & ophthalmic nerve. Through sphenoidal fissure beneath the other nerves & above ophthalmic vein, receiving filaments from sympathetic. Between the two heais of external rectus to ocular surface of that muscle.212 RELATIONS of the NERVES of the ORBIT. CAVERNOUS SINUS: Third & Fourth Ns. & Ophthalmic br. of Fifth — Pass through outer wall of cavernous sinus in thoir numerical order both from above downwards and from within outwarda Sixth N. — Lies on floor of cavernous sinus on outer side of internal carotid artery, on inner side of ophthalmic nerve. SPHENOIDAL FISSURE: Fourth N., Frontal & Lachrymal Divisions of Ophthalmic N. — Entei orbit above external rectna, The other Ns. — Pass between the two heads of external rectus in following ordet from above downwards: Superior division ofZrd N.^ Nasal branch of Ophthal. s miCf Lower division qfZrd iV., Sixth Nerve. ORBIT; Fourth N., Frontal & Lachrsrmal Divisions of Ophthalmic N. — Lie above the muscles immediately beneath periosteum The other Ns. — -A-re found in the following order from above downwards: SuP' erior division ofZrd N.y Nasal branch of Ophthalmic crossing optic N., Optic N^ having lenticular ganglion on its outer side, Inferior division of the 3rd N.^ Sixth Nerve,HEAD & NECK. VII. PHARYNX & SOFT PALATE. BACK OF NECK.214 THE PHARYNX, Is a mtisctilo.inembraiiotis bag extending from base of skull to lower border of cricoid car- tilage in front & 5tli cervical vertebra behind; abont 4J inches long j broadest from side to side, its greatest breadth being comprised between cornna of hyoid bone. It is bonnded above by petrous portion of temporal bone and by under surface of body of sphenoid; - not, as has hitherto been stated, by basilar process of occipital, the recti capitis antici muscles passing forwards between roof of pharynx & whole length of that process (Thomson & Oleland). It is continuous below with oesophagus. It is connected behind by loose areolar tissue to the cervical vertebrae & the longi colli & recti capitis antici muscles. In front it is attached from above downwards toi Inicrnal pterygoid plate ; Pterygo-maxillary ligament; Lower Jaw; Base of tongue ; Corntia of hyoid bone stylo-hyoid ligament; Thyroid cricoid cartilages. Laterally it is in relation with styloid process, styloid & pterygoid muscles, internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal & sympathetic nerves j and also, below, with lateral lobes of thyroid gland, common carotid artery & sterno-hyoid, and, in front, with hyo-glossus muscle and lingual artery & nerve. It presents seven openings: - nares, Eustachian tubes, mouth, larynx, oesophagus.215 STRUCTURE of the PHARYNX. Presents three coats, which, from without inwards, are muscular, fibrous, mucous; and vessels & nerves, MUSCULAR COAT — Is formed by: Inferior Constrictor - Side of cricoid cartilage; oblique line on outer surface of ala of thyroid cartilage & surface behind it, and inferior cornu. Eaph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its inferior fibres being hori- zontal & continuous with those of oesophagus, and its superior fibres passing obliquely upwards and overlapping those of the middle constrictor. - S. by pharyngeal pleicus and external & recurrent laryngeal nerves. Middle Constrictor - Whole extent of upper surface of great cornu of hyoid bone, lesser cornu, stylo-hyoid ligament. Raph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its inferior fibres descending beneath inferior constrictor, its middle fibres being horizontal, and its sup- erior fibres overlapping superior constrictor & stylo-pharyngens. - S. by pharyn- geal plexus. Superior Constrictor - Lower third of free margin of internal pterygoid plate, its hamular process, & contiguous part of palate bone; pterygo-maxillary ligament j alveolar process of inferior maxilla above mylo-hyoid ridge; side of tongue. Eaph6 on posterior median line of pharynx; its superior fibres ascending by means of strong fibrous band below mentioned, to pharyngeal spine on basilar process, its lower fibres being horizontal. - S. by pharyngeal plexus. Stylo-pharyn^eUS - inner side of base of styloid process. With palato-pharyngeus into posterior border of thyroid cartilagre & sido of pharynx. - S. by pharyngeal plexus & glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Palato-pharyngeus - Posterior surface of soft palate by two heads separated by ; levator palati. With stylo-pharyngeus into posterior border of thyroid cartilage & side of pharynx. - S. by pharyngeal plexus. SalpingO-pharyngeUS (Santorini) - Small fasciculus from outer surface of cartila- ginous portion of Eustachian tube to stylo-pharyngeus, with which it blends inferiorly. Is often wanting. Other accessory muscles, the petro-, spheno-, & occipito-pharyngei, are also described; but they are rarely met with. Relations-The constrictors overlap each other from below upwards. The stylo- pharyngeus passes between superior & middle constrictors; the superior laryngeal nerve between the middle & inferior constrictors; the recurrent laryngeal nerve beneath the inferior. - (Vide also relations of pharynx in foregoing Tablet). FIBROUS COAT, or PHARYNGEAL APONEUROSIS — Thick above, thin below. Attached to petrous portion of temporal bone, under surface of body of sphen- oid, and, by means of a strong fibrous band (cranio-pharyngeal ligament, Thomson & Cleland), to pharyngeal spine on under surface of basilar process. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thick on under surface of body of sphenoid; covered wiih columnar ciliated epithelium as low down as fioor of nares, with squamous epitheliam below. Beneath it are found numerous glands, which are simple & compound follicular and racemose. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Ascending pharyngeal, pterygo-palatine, superior or descending palatine, superior thyroid. - Veins. Open into the superior thyroid & internal jugular. - Lymphatics. Open into deep glands of neck. - Nerves. From pharyngeal plexus, and from external & recurrent laryngeal nerves.216 THE SOFT PALATE. Musculo-membranous fold, which forms an inoomplete septum between the mouth and pharynx. Presents: Anterior Surface - Concave; presents a median raph6, continuous with that of hard palate. Posterior Surface - Convex, continuous with floor of nasal fossae j presents the median pro- jection of the azygos uvulse. Upper Border - Attached to posterior border of hard palate. Lower Border - Free; presents the uvula and the anterior & posterior pillars, which two latter embrace the tonsil. ANTErioR Pillars - Downwards & forwards to sides of base of tongue; contain palato- glossi muscles. PoSTEKioa Pillars - Downwards & backwards to sides of pharynx; contain palato- pharyngei musclea Are rather broader and approach nearer to each other than the anterior. Isthmus Faucium - Is the space bounded by the free border & pillars of the soft palate, the tonsils, and the base of the tongue. STRUCTURE of the SOFT PALATE Presents for examination: APONEUROSIS — Blended with tendon of tensor palati. Is thickest above, where it is attached to posterior border of hard palate. MUSCLES — Five on each side: Levator Palati - Under surface of apex of petrous portion of temporal bone and outer aspect of cartilaginous portion of Eustachian tube. Posterior surface of soft palate between the two heads of origin of palato-pharyngeus. - S. by post, or small palatine branch from Meckell's g. Tensor or CircumflexUS Palati - Scaphoid fossa at base of internal ptery- goid plate; spine of sphenoid ; anterior aspect of cartilaginous portion of Eustachian tube. Winds round hamular process and expands upon anterior surface oi aponeurosis of soft palate. - S. by a branch from otic ganglion. Falato-glossuS - Anterior surface of soft palate. Posterior part of side of tongue, where it blends with stylo-glossus. Palato-pharyngeus - Posterior surface of soft palate by two heads separated by the levator palati. Posterior border of thyroid cartilage & sides of pharynx. Azygos UvulSB - Posterior nasal spine of palate bone & aponeurosis of soft palate. IJvula. - S. by posterior or small palatine branch from Meckell's gangl. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thin; covered with squamous epithelium, except near Eustachian tube, where the epithelium is columnar & ciliated. Numerous mucous glands are found beneath it, especially over posterior surface & uvula, in which latter situations they form a continuous layer. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Inferior or ascending palatine, posterior or descending palatine, ascending pharyngeal, dorsalis linguae, tonsillar. - Yeins. Join the tonsillar & pterygoid plexuses. - Lymphatics. To glands beneath angle of jaw. - Nerves. From fifth, facial & glosso-pharyngeal.217 SHORT POSTERIOR CRANIO-VERTEBRAL MUSCLES. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major - Spinous process of axis. } Into and beneath outer part of inferior curved line of occipital bone. Hectus Capitis Posticus Minor - Tubercle on posterior arch of atlas. Into and beneath inner part of inferior curved line of occipital boue. Obliquus Capitis Inferior - Spinous process #f axis. Extremity of transverse process of atlas. Oblq_UUS Capitis Superior - Extremity of transverse process of atlas. Occipital bone between the two curved lines externally to the compIezQS & rectus capitis posticus major. These muscles are supplied by the posterior branch of the suboccipital nerve; the inferior oblique is also supplied by the great occipital218 THE VERTEBEAL ARTERY Arises from upper & back part of first portion of subclavian. Upwards & backwards to foramen in transverse process of 6th cervical vertebra, passing behind vasculo-nervous bundle of the neck and more particularly behind inferior thyroid artery & internal jugular vein, and then between scalenus anticus & longus colli. Upwards through the series of foramina in the transverse processes as far as upper border of axis with the vertebral vein and a plexus of the sympathetic, the artery lying between the vein which is in front, and the cervical nerves which emerge behind from the intervertebral foramina. Upwards & outwards to, and then tlirough, foramen in transverse process of atlas. Backwards & inwards behind lateral mass in groove on posterior arch of atlas, lying in the trian- gular space between the recti & obliqui muscles, and being crossed by the posterior branch of the suboccipital nerve and covered by the complexus Pierces posterior occipito-atloid ligament, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum. Winds round medulla oblongata between hypoglossal nerve and anterior root of suboccipital; ascends obliquely between anterior surface of medulla oblongata & basilar process, and joins its fellow opposite lower border of pons Varolii to form basilar trunk. BRANCHES — Are cervical & cranial. CERVICAL: Muscula<r - Several, small, to the deep muscles of the neck. Lateral Spinal - Through intervertebral foramina, and divide into t ^wif. ^ra;«<r^-To posterior surface of bodies of vertebrae; J'osi. Branch - To roots of nerves, cord & its membranes. . ^. CRANIAL: Posterior Meningeal - Two or three, small, to dura mater of cerebellar fossa. Posterior & Anterior Spinal - Arise respectively behind upper part of cord and in front of medulla. The two posterior descend behind the roots of the spinal nerves; The two anterior unite into a single trunk, which descends along middle line of cord. Both join with, and are reinforced by, the numerous spinal branches derived from the vertebral, ascending cervical, inferior thyroid, the intercostal, lumbar, ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral; and are thus each of them con- tinued as small tortuous vessels, or rather as a series of inosculating vessels, down to the extremity of the cord, where they resolve into twigs to Cauda equina. Posterior Inferior Cerebellar - Backwards round medulla between pneumo- gastric & spinal accessory nerves, and over restiform body to median fissure or valley on under surface of cerebellum. Grives off an offset to •under surface of cerebral hemisphere and twigs to choroid plexus of 4th ventricle.219 THE TWO FIRST SPINAL NERVES. POSTERIOR DIVISION OF First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Larger than anterior. Emerges between occipital bone & posterior arch of atlas just behind vertebral artery, enters triangle formed by small poster- ior cranio-vertebral muscles, supplies these muscles & complexas, and joins wich posterior divisioa of 2nd cervical nerve. Sometimes gives off a small cutaneous branch, which branch, when it exists, accompanies occipital artery to integument of lower & back part of occiput, and joins with gi'oat & small occipital. Second Cervical Nerve - Three or four times as large as anterior division, and the largest of the posterior cervical nerves. Emerges between posterior arch of atlas & lamina of axis, supplies infer- ior oblique, and after joining with posterior division of 1st & 3rd cervical nerves, divides into: External Branch - Similar to external branches of six lower posterior cervical nerves, but somewhat larger, joins with corresponding branch of 3rd posterior cervical nerve, and supplies the same muscles, & also the complexas. Internal Branch (Great Occipital Nerve) - Grosses triangle formed by posterior cranio-vertebral muscles, pierces complexus & trapezius, joins with small occipital & with ascending twig from internal branch of posterior division of 3rd, and supplies integument of back of head as far aa vertex J gives off an auricular branch to back of ear. ANTERIOR DIVISION OF First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Small. Emerges between occipital bone & posterior arch of atlas below vertebral artery. Passes forwards on mner side ot vertebral artery & rectus lateralis muscle, crosses foramen in transverse process of atlas, and descends in front of this process to join with ascending branch of the second. Supplies the rectus lateralis & the recti capitis antici major & minor, and communicates with the pneumogastric, hypoglossal, & superior cervical ganghon ot sympathetic. Becond Cervical Nerve - Larger than foregoing, but still much smaller than the poster, becona V^f ^Ica^^lN ei^^^^^^ S^^^^^ ^ ^^^^^^ between posterior arch of atlas & lamma of axis, passes forwards between transverse processes of the same vertebrae on outer side of vertebral artery, and divides into an ascending branch, which joins the first nerve, and a descending branch, whit»\ pfia the second. Gixes off the small ocoipitai nervj>»ARTICULATIONS of the CRANIUM with the SPINE Are the occipito-atloid and occipito-axoid articulations, from which articulations the atlo-axoid articulation cannot well be separated. OCCIPITO-ATLOID ARTICULATION — consists of a double arthrodia between condyles of occipital and superior articular surfaces of atlas; the condyles being convex from before backwards & inwards and looking downwards & outwards, and the articular surfaces of the atlas being concave from before backwards & inwards and looking upwards & inwards. The ligaments are: - CaipSUla>r - Two. Thin & loose; surround the arthrodial articulations. The synovial membranes of these articulations often communicate with that of the m. j.^ ' 'A. .^•..i m syndesmo-odoutoid articulation. Ant. Occipito-Atloid-Two: Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Basilar process to - Antei'ior tubercle of atlas. Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Anterior margin of foramen magnum to - Upper border of anterior arch of atlas. Post. Occipito-Atloid - Thin & broad membrane from Posterior margin of foramen magnmn to — Upper border of posterior arch of atlas* It is perforated on either side by vertebral artery & suboccipital n. Lateral Occipito-Atloid - Two. strong bands from Jugular process to - Base of transverse process of atlas. OCCIPITO-AXOID ARTICULATION — No direct contact between the two bones, but the two bones are firmly connected together, nevertheless, by the following ligts: - OccipitO-Axoid - strong broad band expanded superiorly, and which may be considered as a continuation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae; from Basilar groove of occipital^ where it becomes continuous with dura mater of skull, to - Posterior surface of body of axis. — It covers and conceals the Occipito-Odontoid - Three, two lateral «fe one median. cruciform ligament. Lateral Occipito-Odontoid or Check Ligaments - Strong rounded cords from Rough depression on inner side of condyles of occipital to -Sides of odontoidpr. near its apex. Median or Suspensory Occipito-Odontoid Ligament - Strong band from Anterior margin of foramen magnum to - Apex of odontoidprocess. — This band is situated between, & blended superiorly, with deep anterior occipito-atloid ligt., on the one hand, & upper fasciculus of cruciform ligt. on the other. Vertical Fasciculus of Cruciform Ligt. - V. below. ATLO-AXOID ARTICULATION — is a complex articulation consisting: L of a double arthrodia between the articular processes, the articular surfaces of which are large, flat, circular, and inclined downwards & outwards. 2. of a double diar- throsis rotatorius between the anterior & posterior surfaces of the odontoid process, on the one hand, and the posterior & anterior surfaces respectively of the anterior arch of the atlas & of the transverse ligament, on the other hand, (atlo-odontoid & syndesmo-odontoid articulations, Cruveilhier). The ligaments are;- Capsular - Two. Thin, loose, strongest externally j surround the two arthrodiae. Ant. Atlo-Axoid - Two: Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Anterior tubercle of atlas to - Base of odontoid proccess <&• front of body of axis. Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Lower border of anterior arch of atlas to - Base of odontoidprocess dr*front of body of axis. Post. Atlo-Axoid - Thin & broad membrane from Lower border of posterior arch of atlas to - Upper border oflamince of aids. Transverse - strong transverse band, broadest in middle, which divides ring of atlas into a small anterior part, in which anterior part the neck of the odontoid process is firmly constricted, and a much larger posterior part, which transmits the cord & its membranes & the spinal accessory nerves. It is attached on each side to a Tubercle on inner surface of lateral mass of atlas - Its anterior surface is lined with synovial membrane of syndestno-odontoid articulation. From its upper & lower borders, or rather fr( m its posterior surface, are siven off two fasciculi, which pass upwards & downwards to be attached, the one to the basilar groove^ the other to posterior surface of body of axis ; with the trans- verse band, these vertical fasciculi form the cruciform ligainent. The synovial membrane of the syndesmo-odontoid articulation . often communicates with one or both of those of the occipito-atloid arthrodisB.HEAD & NECK VIII. NASAL FOSS^, AND DEEP VESSELS & NERVES OF NECK.222 THE NASAL POSS^. Two narrow irregular cavities comprised between the orbits & superior maxillary bones, and between tlie roof of the mouth & the front part of the base of the skull, Formed by ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, superior maxillary, nasal, palate, inferior turbin- ated & vomer (all the bones of the face except malar & inferior maxillary). Communicate with orbit (nasal duct), mouth, (anterior palatine canal), cranium (olfactory foramina), spheno-maxillary fossa (spheno-palatine foramen), and with the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, & maxillary sinuses. - Present; ROOF — Narrow, and is from before backwards: Oblique upwards & backwards and formed by nasal bone & nasal spine of frontal, Horizontal and formed by cribriform plate of ethmoid, Oblique downwards & backwards and formed by body of sphenoid. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from before backwards : Groove on nasal bone for outer branch of nasal nerve j Half crest for perpendicular plate of ethmoid; Olfactory foramina & nasal slit for olfactory and nasal nerves ; Openings of sphenoidal simises partly closed by sphenoidal turbinated bones; Artictilation of alee of vomer with body of sphenoid. FLOOR — Concave from side to side, and formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & palate bones. - Presents the suture between foregoing bones & the Upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; Half crest for vomer, which terminates in front & behind in the Anterior & posterior nasal spines. INNER WALL — Formed principally by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid above & in front, and by the vomer below & behind, and secondarily by nasal spine of the frontal, rostrum of sphenoid, crests of superior maxil- lary, nasal & palate bones. Has an angular deficiency in front which is filled up by the cartilage of the septum. - Is frequently inclined to one or other side; and presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and Vasczdar & nervotts furrows & Nasopalatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. OUTER WALL — Formed by: Lacryinal bone & nasal process of superior tnaxillary ; Inner surface of ethmoid, superior maxillary & inferior turbinated bones ; Vertical plate of palate bone & inner plate of pterygoid pi^ocess. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from above downwards: Superior ttirbinatedprocess of ethmoid ; Superior meatus, into which open the sphenoidal & posterior ethmoidal sinuses and the spheno-palatine foramen. - Both are short and are situated at the posterior and upper part of the nares j Middle turbinated process of ethmoid ; Middle meatus, larger than foregoing, into which open the Antrum of Highmore and through the infundibulum, the anterior ethmoidal cells & frontal sinuses; Inferior turbinated bone ; Inferior meatus, the largest, presents in front the opening of the nasal duct.223 FIRST or OLFACTORY NERVE Arises by three roots. THE THREE ROOTS - Ave the : External or Long Root — Arises from the posterior border of the fissure of Sylvius^ and is said to be traceable to the corpus striatum, the anterior commissure, the tha- lamus opticus & the Island of Rail. It passes forwards and inwards along the anterior margin of the locus perforatua anticus. Internal or Short Root — Arises from the posterior and inner part of the anterior lobe^ and is said by Foville to be connected with the longitudinal fibres of the gyrus fornicatus or convolution of the corpus callosum. It passes forwards & outwards, and joins the foregoing root just above the origin of the middle or grey root. Middle or Grey Root — Begins in a pyramidal eminence, the caruncula mammilla' ris, of the grey matter of the posterior part of the anterior lobe, and is continued upon the upper surface of the nerve with a few white fibres derived from the corpus striatum. The three roots coalesce and form a prismoid band, the OLFACTORY PROCESS, — which passes forwards in a deep sulcus along the side of lon« gitudinal fissure, and expands into the OLFACTORY BULB, — from the under surface of which are given oflE" about twenty TERMINAL BRS., — which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the eth- moid, and — formin g three sets distributed respectively over the 7'oof of the nose, <yvQV the upper third of the septum, and over the superior 6^ middle turbinated bones — proceed between the fibrous & mucous layers of the Schneiderian membrane, ramify and uni- te and form a plexus with narrow elongated meshes, and probably terminate in the deep processes of the olfactory cells of Schultze. These latter cells are spindle-shaped nucleated bodies, which stand vertically in great numbers among the columnar epithelial cells of the olfactory region; their extremities are continued into two thread-like processes, one of which terminates abruptly on a level with the free extremities of the epithelial cells, while the other passes downwards towards the attached surface of the mucous membrane. = f The olfactory nerve contains a large proportion of the grey matter, and is soft and pulpy. Its filaments are deficient in the white substance of Schwann, and are granular and nucleated like the gelatinous nerve-fibres of Eemak.224 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Intermediate in size between ophthalmic & inferior maxillary nerves. - Commences at middle of Gasserian ganglion Through foramen rotundum, spheno-maxillary fossa & infraorbital canal to infraorbital foramen, and divides beneath levator labii snperioris into palpebral, nasal labial branches^ which branches anastomose with facial nerve forming infraorbital plexus and supply muscles, skin & mucous membrane. BRANCHES: ' Orbital or Temporo-malar Br. - into orbit through spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into: Temporal Br. - In groove & through foramen in malar bone, joining with lachrymal ; Pierces temporal muscle & fascia to skin of temple, and joins with facial & auriculo-temporal. Malar Br. - Through foramen in malar bone to skin of prominent part of cheek. SplienO-palatine Brs. - Two. To Meckel's ganglion, of which they form the sensory root. Post. Dental Brs. - Two: Anterior or Superficial - Over maxillary tuberosity to gums & buccinator. Posterior or Deep - Forwards in outer wall of AnM-um, joiniag anterior dental nerve, and supplies molar & second bicuspid teeth & raucous membrane of Antrum. Ant. Dental Br. - Arises just before exit of superior maxillary nerve from infra- orbital canal. Downwards «fe forwards in anterior wall of Antrum joining with posterior dental nerve, and supplies incisor, canine & first bicuspid teeth and mucous membrane of inferior meatus. A twig joins superior nasal branch of Meckel's ganglion above eye-tooth, and presents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Bochdalek.T25 SPHENO-PALATINE or MECKEL'S GANGLION, Triangular, of a reddish grey colour and situated in spheno-maxillary fossa near spheno- palatine foramen, mainly behind spheno-palatine branches of superior maxillary nerve, the fibres of these branches hoc being, or being but partly, involved in the ganglion as they descend to the nose & palate. Presents : THREE ROOTS: Sensory Root — From superior maxillary nerve through its two spheno- palatine branches. Motor Root — From facial nerw; through Vidian nerve. Sympathetic Root — From carotid plexus also through Vidian nerve. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION - Are divided into: Ascending Brs. — Two or three small filaments, which pass up through spheno- maxillary fissure to periosteum of orbit. Descending Brs. — Are the: ANT. OK GREAT PALATINE N. - Through great posterior palatine canal, giving ofi" inferior nasal branches to middle meatus & to middle & inferior turbinated bones, and a twig to soft palate ; Forwards in groove on hard palate, and joins termination of naso-palatine nerve. EXT. PALATINE N. - Through external palatine canal to tonsil & soft palate. Is sometimes wanting. POST. OR SMALL PALATINE N. - Through small posterior palatine canal to tonsil, soft palate and levator palati & azygos uvulse. Internal Brs. — Are the: SUP. NASAL BE,. - Small. Through spheno-palatine foramen to mucous mem- brane of superior & middle spongy bones & upper & back part of septum. A twig joins anterior dental nerve in outer wall of antrum of Highmore above eye-tooth & presents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Bochdalek. NASO-PALATINE BR. - Through spheno-palatine foramen & across roof of • nose to septum, and downwards to anterior palatine foramen. Through central division of the anterior palatine foramen, or foramen of Scarpa, right nerve being posterior to left one. Joins its fellow in common anterior palatine canal and ends in mu- cous membrane of hard palate, joining with anterior or great palatine nerve. Posterior Brs. — Are the: VIDIAN N. - Backwards through Vidian canal (if the nerve be traced from Meckel's ganglion), giving twigs to back of roof & septum of nose and to termination of Eustachian tube, and divides into : Large Petrosal N. - Through cartilaginous substance of foramen lace- rum medium, and then in groove on anterior surface of petrous portion of temporal bone beneath Gasserian ganglion & through hiatus Fallopii to geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangli- f or mis of facial. Carotid Br. - Soft and_ of reddish grey colour. Through cartilaginous substance to carotid plexus on outer side of internal carotid artery. PHARYNGEAL or PTBRYGO-PALATINE N. - Small. Through pterygo- palatine canal to mucous membrane of upper part of pharynx.226 INFEEIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The largest of the three divisions. Both sensory & motor, its two roots uniting immediately after their exit from foramen ovale. Divides a few lines below base of skull into : ANTERIOR or SMALLER DIVISION — Principally motor. Divides into : Masseteric Br. - Outwards above external pterygoid muscle and through sigmoid notch to masseter. Gives off a twig to teraporo-maxillary articulation & some- time* one to temporal muscle. Deep Teniporal Brs. - Two, anterior & posterior. Outwards above external ptery- goid muscle and reflected upwards at pterygoid ridge to temporal muscle. Are sometimes joined, anterior one with buccal nerve, posterior one with masseteric. Buccal Br. - Pierces external pterygoid, and forwards on buccinator, giving filaments to temporal muscle, integument & mucous membrane. Pterygoid Brs. - Two, to internal & external pterygoid muscles. Branch to internal pterygoid gives off motor root to otic ganglion. Branch to external pterygoid is frequently derived from buccal. POSTERIOR or LARGER DIVISION — Sensory with a few motor fibres. Divides into: Auriculo-temporal N. - Has generally two roots which embrace middle meningeal artery. Backwards beneath external pterygoid & neck of condyle; Upwards with temporal artery between condyle & external ear under cover of parotid gland, and divides into: Auricular Brs. - Inferior & superior, to outer surface of pinna, join- ing with great auricular. Temporal Brs. - Anterior & posterior; with branches of temporal artery to skin of temporal region & vertex. Joins facial nerve behind neck of condyle usually by two branches; gives off sensory root of otic ganglion and filaments to parotid gland & temporo-maxillary articulation. Gustatory or Lingual N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where it lies on inner side & in front of inferior dental nerve, and is joined by chorda tympani; Above deep portion of submaxillary gland & along side of tongue, crossing Whar- ton's duct. Supplies mucous membrane of mouth & gums, submucous glands, conical & fun- giform papillae and mucous membrane of tongue. Gives sensory branches to submaxillary ganglion, and anastomoses with hypo- glossal nerve on anterior margin of hyo-glossus & near tip of tongue. Inf. Dental N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where lies behind & on outer side of gustatory; Between ramus & internal lateral ligament of temporo-maxillary articulation to dental foramen, where gives off nerve to mylo-hyoid muscle. Along inferior dental canal, giving branches to molar & bicuspil teeth, & divi- des at mental foramen into: Incisor Br. - Onwards in dental canal to canine & incisor teeth. Meotal Br. — Divides beneath depressor anguli oris into numerous branches to muscles, skin & mucous membrane of lower lip. NERVE TO MYLO-HYOID - Along groove on inner surface of ramus to under surface of mylo-hyoid & anterior belly of digastric N,—All the terminal branches of the 5th nerve upon the face. join with facial nerve.227 OTIC GANGLION. Small oval shaped flattGiied body of a reddish grey colour situated on inner surface of inferior maxillary nerve & around origin of its internal pterygoid branch, just below foramen ovale, close to tensor tympani muscle & cartilaginous portion of Eusta- chian tube which lie on its inner side, and to middle meningeal artery which lies behind. It presents: THREE ROOTS: Sensory Root - From auriculo-temporal nerve, and also from glosso- pharyngeal through small petrosal nerve, lillotor Root - From inferior maxillary nerve & its internal pterygoid branch; also from facial nerve through small petrosal. Sympathetic Root - From plexus on middle meningeal artery. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION — Small branches to tensor palati & tensor tympani.228 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Commences at bifurcation of common carotid opposite upper border of thyroid cartilage & in the so-called superior carotid triangle. It is at first very superficial, being covered only by thin anterior border of sterno-mastoid, platysma & fascia, and lying on outer side of, & rather behind, external carotid artery, liiay be divided into cervical, petrous, cavernous & cerebral portions. CERVICAL PORTION — Ascends vertically to carotid foramen, passing (as does also external carotid) Beneath - Digastric & stylo-hyoid muscles, occipital artery, hypoglossal nerve, & parotid gland, - then ascending beneath, and being separated from external carotid by, Stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus & the styloid process, the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve and sometimes the pharyngeal branch of the vagus.- Its deep relations are ; On Inner Side - Pharynx, tonsil, ascending pharyngeal art., superior laryngeal n. Behind - Rectus capitis anticus major & transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrse; -superior cervical ganglion & main trunk of sympathetic, and superior laryngeal nerves. Behind & Externally - Internal jugular vein, and, lying between & behind the two vessels, the pneumogastric nerve. Usually gives ofi* no branches. PETHOUB PORTION — Ascends iu carotid canal in front of tympanum, being surrounded by carotid & cavernous plexuses, and then curves forwards & inwards. - Sends a small Tympanic Branch ~ To tympanum through a minute foramen in pos- terior wall of carotid canal, CAVERNOUS PORTION — Ascends to sphenoid bone, and then runs forwards in caver- nous groove, lying in inner wall of cavernous siuus, by lining membrane of which ifc is covered, and being, on its outer side, crossed by 6th nerve and more distantly related to 3rd, 4th, & ophthalmic branch of the 5th. Gives ofi": Ophthalmic Artery - Vide p. 209. Arterise Receptaculi - Several, small, to walls of cavernous sinus & dura mater. CEREBRAL PORTION — Ascends between optic nerve & anterior clinoid process, perfo- rates dura mater of roof of sinus, receives sheath from arachnoid, and after giving off Post. Communicating & Ant. Choroid, divides opposite inner extremity of fissure of Sylvius into Ant. & Middle Cerebral - Vide next Tablet. Ant. Choroid Artery - Arises from internal carotid, or sometimes from middle cerebral. Backwards through lateral part of transverse fissure of brain to descen- ding cornu of lateral ventricle, and supplies choroi d plexua.THORAX. I. 28230 INNOMINATE VS. & SUP. VENA CAVA. INNOMINATE VEINS — Two large trnnks formed by junction of internal jugular A subclavian behind corresponding sterno-elaricular articulation, KIGHT INNOMINATE — An inch & a half long, some what smaller than the left, and nearly vertical. Lies superficial & external to innominate artery, and is separated externally from right lung by right phrenic nerve & pleura. Joins with left innominate just below cartilage of 1st rib to form superior cava. Receives; Right Lymphatic Duct - At its origin, in angle of junction between right subclavian vein & right internal jugular. Tributary Branches: - Right Vertebral^ internal Mammary^ Inferior Thy- roidi <Sr= Superior Intercostal. LEFT INNOMINATE — Three inches long, & somewhat larger than the right. Descends obliquely from behind left sterno-clavicular articulation to just below 1st costal cartilage of right side, lying in front of innominate, left common carotid & subclavian arteries, and behind sterno-hyoid & -thyroid muscles, remains of thymus gland, & sternumi. Receives Thoracic Duct - At its origin, in angle of junction between left subclav- ian yein & left internal jugular. Tributary Branches : Irft Vertebral, internal Mammary, Inferior Thyroid, Superior Intercostal, and sometimes some small Thymic Pericardiac Veins. - The innominate veins have no valves. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA — short thick trunk (21 to 3 inches long), slightly curved, & convex to the right. Descends vertically along right side of ascending portion of arch of aorta & in front of root of right lung from just below 1st costal cartilage of right side, enters fibrous bag of pericardium about an inch and a half above the heart, becomes invested anteriorly by serous layer on the same bag, and opens into upper & front part of right auricle; is separated externally froai right lung by right phrenic nerve & pleura, and its anterior relations are the same as those of the innominate. - Receives Tributary Branches; - Vena Azygos Major, and some small Pericardiac &» Mediastinal Veins. - Has no valves^231 INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. - From under surface of subclavian, opposite thyroid axis. Downwards behind phrenic nerve aiid interna] jug'ular & subclavian veins to pos- terior aspect of costal cartilages a short distance from sternum^ Descends between thoracic wall & pleura, giving off branches : - Perforating, Anterior Intercostal, Anterior Mediastinal, dr» Comes Nervi Phrenici, and divides between 6th & 7th costal cartilages & beneath triangularis sterni into branches Musculo'phrenic, ^ Superior Epigastric. Its two venae comites unite into one trunk before they open into the innominate. Perforating - Forwards through five or six upper intercostal spaces to pectoralis major, integument, and mamma. AsTBBioR Intercostal > Outwards in five or six upper intercostal spaces between internal intercostal muscles & pleura, and divide between internal & ex- ternal intercostal muscles into superior & inferior branches which inoscu- late with corresponding branches of corresponding aortic intercostals, - and are similarly distributed. Anterior Mediastinal - Small, irregular ; to pericardium, remains of thymus gland & cellular tissue of anterior mediastinum. Comes Nervi Phrenici (Superior Phrenic) - From upper part of artery. Long, slender; with phrenic nerve to diaphragm, and anastomose with musculo-phrenic, & inferior phrenic from abdominal aorta. Musculo-Phrenic - Downwards & outwards behind cartilages of false ribs, supplying diaphragm, which it perforates opposite 8th or 9th rib, & abdominal muscles, and giving off a small anterior intercostal branch to each of the lower intercostal spaces, Superior Epigastric - Enters sheath of rectus posteriorly, and anastomoses with epi- gastric branch of external iliac, lower intercostals & lumbar; gives twigs to rectus & to iuteguuaeut of middlo lino of abdomen232 THE PERICARDIUM. Fibro-seroua sac containing the heart & the commencement of the large vessels. The serous layer forms a common sheath to the aorta & pulmonary artery as far as about tyfo inches from their origin. It is then reflected upon the anterior aspect of the venae cavse & pulmonary veins, and upon the inner surface of the fibrous layer. - Marshall's " vestigial fold of the pericardium " containing the remains of the left sup- erior cardinal vein of the embryo, may be seen in front of the root of the left lung, o The fibrous layer is prolonged upon the great vessels of the root of the neck, and becomes continous superiorly with the deep layer of the deep cervical fascia, that is to say with the layer of fascia which encloses the omo-hyoid muscles, the carotid vessels, & the trachea. The pericardium is conical in shape, and presents : - Anterior Aspect - Covered by loose areolar tissue & remains of thymus gland, lungs, pleuree, middle piece of sternum, and costal cartilages of the left side from the 3rd to the 7th. Posterior Aspect - in contact with roots of the lungs, oesophagus & descending aorta. Lateral Aspects - Covered by pleurae, and crossed by phrenic nerve & superior phrenic vessels. Apes • Directed upwards upon great Tessels. Sase -* Attached to central or cordiform tendoa^ & to left anterior costal fibres of diaphragm.233 THE HEABT. Lies within the pericardium, between the two lungs, behind the lower two-thirda of the sternum, and projects about three inches into the left side, & one into the right side * ^ of the thorax. - It presents J Base - Formed by the auricles, attached to the great vessels, directed upwards backwards ft to the right; corresponds to the interval between the 5th & 8th dorsal vertebrae. Apex - Formed by the point of the left ventricle, directed downwards, forwards & to the loft j corresponds to the 5th intercostal space of the left side, two inches below and one to the inner side of the nipple. Anterior Surface - Formed chiefly by right ventricle, the anterior interventricular groove lying near the left border; convex, looks upwards & forwards, and extends from level of upper borders of third costal cartilages to a line drawn from lower end of gladiolus to situation of apex. Posterior Surface - Formed chiefly by left ventricle, the posterior interventricular groove lying near the right border; flattened; rests upon diaphragm. Right Border - Long, thin, rests upon diaphragm; formed by right ventricle. Left Border •- Short thick, much less incl/ned than the right one; formed by left ventriole. 28a234 THE ARCH of the AORTA. From upper part of left ventricle to left side of lower border of body of 4tb dorsal vertebra (some authors say 3rd, some say 5th), describing a curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards & to the right. Is divided into: - ASCENDING PORTION — About two inches long. Upwards, forwards, & to the right from opposite centre of sternum on a level with lower border of 3rd costal cartilages to upper border of 2nd costal cartilage of right side close to sternum. Contained in pericardium together with trunk of pulmonary artery. - RELATIONS: In Fkont - Pulmonary artery, right auricular appendix, pericardium, loose areolar tissue, remains of thymus gland, sternum. Behind - Right pulmonary vessels, & root of right lung. To THE Right - Superior vena cava, right auricle. To THE Left - Trunk of pulmonary artery. TRANSVERSE PORTION — Backwards & to the left from upper border of 2nd costal cartilage of right side close to sternum to left side of body of 3rd dorsal vertebra (some authors say 2nd, some say 4th). - RELATIONS : In Front - Left pneumogastric & phrenic nerves, cardiac branches of sympathetic, left lung & pleura. Behind - Trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, great or deep cardiac plexus. Above - Left innominate vein, innominate, left common carotid, & left subclavian arteries. Below - Left bronchus, right pulmonary artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, remains of ductus arteriosus. DESCENDING PORTION — Along left side of 3rd & 4th to lower border of 4th dorsal vertebra (some authors say along left side of 2nd & 3rd to lower bor- der of 3rd, some say along left side of 4th & 5th to lower border of 5th), where it becomes thoracic aorta. - RELATIONS: In Fkont - Pleura, root of left lung. Behind - Body of 4th dorsal vertebra (some authors say of 3rd, some say of 5th). To the Right - (Esophagus, thoracic duct. To THE Left - Left lung & pleura. The aorta is somewhat dilated just above its origin, where it pre- sents externally three small bulgings corresponding to the sinuses of Valsalva; two of these bulgings are anterior, and one is posteriorj and from the two anterior ones the coronary arteries are seen to arise. The most prominent part of the arch lies about | of an inch behind the pos- terior surface of the sternum. The height to which the arch usually rises in the chest is about 1 inch below the upper border of the sternum. BEANCHES — Left or Anterior, & Right or Posterior Coronary, Innominate, Left Common Carotid, Left Subclavian.285 THE THORACIC AORTA. Oommences at left side of lower border of 4th dorsal vertebra (some Authora say 3rd, some 8»y 6th). Descends through posterior mediastinum, curving slightly forwards and inclining slightly to the right, and ends at aortic opaning of diaphragm in front of 12th dorsal verte- bra. -RELATIONS j In Feont - Root of left lung, pericardium, OBSophagus. Behind - Yertebrse, vena azygos minor. To THE Right - (Esophagus (above), vena azygos major, thoraoio duofe, To THE Left - Left lung & pleura, oesophagus (below). BRAltCHES: Pericardiac - Small, irregular; forwards to pericardium, Sroncllial - The nutrient vessels of the lungs. On left side, generally two arising from thoracic aottra one above the other; on right side, but one usually arising either from first aortic intercostal, or from front of aorta in common with artery of left side. Along back of corresponding bronchus, dividing & subdividing upon bronchial tubes, and supplying bronchial glands & cellular tissue of lung; give a few twigs to cesophagus. OEsophageal - Usually four or five from front of aorta. Descend obliquely upon oesopha- gus anastomosing with each other, and with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid, inferior phrenic & gastric. Posterior Mediastinal - Small irregular branches to glands and cellular tissue of mediastinum. '■9 Aortic Intercostals - From back of aorta. Usually ten in number, sometimes only nine, the second intercostal space being sometimes supplied, as well as the first, by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. To corres- ponding intercostal space, passing on Left Side - Beneath smaller azygos & left superior intercostal veins. and left cord of sympathetic; Right Side - Round bodies of vertebrae beneath oesophagus, thoracic duct, greater azygos, & righc cord of sympathetic, - and divide into anterior & posterior branches. Anterior Branch, OE Intercostal Peopee - Upon external intercostal muscle and beneath pleura & a thin layer of fascia, to lower border of rib above, and divides between the two intercostal muscles into branches; Superior - The larger; along groove on inner surface of rib above; Inferior - The smaller; along upper border of rib below, - which branches supply intercostal muscles, and anastomose with thoracic branches of axillary & anterior intercostal branches of internal mammary. The three last intercostals are prolonged between abdominal muscles, and anastomose with epigastric, inferior phrenic & lumbar; the first one anastomoses with superior intercostal. - In the intercostal spaces the vein usually lies above the trunk of the artery & its superior branch, and the nerve below« Posterior or Dorsal Branch - Backwards on inner side of superior or long costo- transverse ligament with posterior branch of corresponding spinal nerve, ^ and divides into branches j Spinal - Through, intervertebral foramen to cord & its membranes and pos- •jii terior aspect of bodies of vertebraa. Muscular - Divides into internal offset to multifidus spinas & integument near epiue, and external offset^ which passes between saoro-Iumbalis h lougissimus dorsi to superfioial masoles & iutegumenl.236 INNOMINATE ARTERY. From commencement of horizontal portion of arch of Aorta in front of left common carotid. Upwards & to the right to tipper border of right sterno-clavicular articulation, where divides into right common carotid & right subclavian. Gives off occasionally the thyroidea ima. Its length is usually from an inch to an inch & a half.—RELATIONS: In Feont — Sternum, sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, remains of thymus gland j Left innominate & right inferior thyroid veins; Inf. cervical cardiac br. of right pneumogastric. Behind — Trachea. On Inner Side — Left common carotid, remains of thymus gland. On Outer Side — Right pneumogastric n., right innominate vein, pleura. Thyroidea Ima — is very variable in size, when present. Usually arises from in- nominate, sometimes from right common carotid or from Aorta. Ascends in front of trachea to thyroid gland. COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. Right common carotid arises from innominate artery behind sterno-clavicular articulation, r Left common carotid arises from highest part of arch of Aorta, is longer, and has a thora, cic portion deeply situated within the thorax. THORACIC PORTION OF THE LEFT COMMON CAROTID ART. Upwards & outwards to root of neck. — RELATIONS: In Front — Sternum, sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, left innominate v., re- mains of thymus gland. Behind — Trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct. On Inner Side — Innominate artery. Qk Outer Side — Left pneumogastric & phrenic ns. & left subclavian art., left lung & pleura. i237 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. From innomiaate artery behind upper border of sternc.olavicular artioulatioa (right side), from end of transverse portion of arch of Aorta (left side), to outer border of first rib. Divided into three parts: - FIEST PART — From origin to inner border of scalenus antioas. Differs on the two sides. EIGHT SIDE —Arches upwards & outwards across root of neck, and is shorter & mora superficial than on left side. - Relations: In Front - Sterno-clavicular articulation, sterno-mastoid,-hyoid, & -thyroid, deep layer of fascia; - and the artery is crossed by ; Internal & anterior jugular and vertebral veins, pneumogastrio & phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of sympathetic. Behind - Longus colli, transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, cord of sym- pathetic, recurrent laryngeal nerve. Below - Pleura. Subclavian Vein lies below & in front of artery immediately behind clavicle. LEFT SIDE —Ascends nearly vertically, and is longer & more deeply situated. - Relations : 2n Front - Same, plus left lung & pleura, left innominate v., left com. carotid; - and Pneumogastrio & phrenic nerves & cardiac branches of sympathe- tic are nearly parellel to the artery. Behind - Same, plus oesophagus & thoracic duct. OnlitiierS.-Tra,ch.ea, sesophagus, thoracic duct, left common carotid artery. On OuterS.-'Pleura,. BRANCHES — Vertebral, Internal Mammary, Thyroid Axis - Arise close together near inner border of scalenus anticus, an interval measuring usually from J an inch to 1 inch being left between the origin of the artery & its first branch. Oa the left side the Superior Intercostal also usually arises from this part of the artery.238 PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. Arises from lateral tract of medulla oblongata below glosso-pharyngeal ^ above spinal accessory. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of fourth ventricle. Through jugular foramen behind glosso-pharyngeal & in same sheath as spinal accessory. Presents two ganglia, one in and one below jugular foramen: Sup. or Jugular G. or G. of the Eoot — Small, greyish, rounded. Anastom. with facial^ glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory sympathetic, [np. G. or G. op the Trunk — Reddish, cylindrical, nearly an inch in length. Anastom. witb hypoglossal, spinal accessory, sympathetic, loop between two first cervical nerveSi Descends behind & between int. & comm. carotid arteries & int. jugular v. and in same sheath; Then, On Right Side : Between subclavian art. & v. and along side of trachea to back of root of lung, where spreads out into posterior pulmonary plexus. Along side of oesophagus in the shape of two or more separate cords, which form oesophageal plexus with nerve of opposite side. As a single cord along back of oesophagus to posterior surface of stomach, and joins solar & splenic plexuses. On Left Side • Between and in front of left comm. carotid & left subclavian arteries behind left innominate vein. Across arch of aorta to back of root of lung, where similarly spreads out and joins with its fellow. Along side of oesophagus as above. As a single cord along front of oesophagus to anterior surface of stomach, and joins left hepatic plexus. BRANCHES: Auricular Br. — Arises from g. of the root, and joins with glosso-pharyngeal. Across jugular fossa & through opening in temporal bone near styloid process; Between mastoid process & ext. audit, meatus to integument of back of pinna. Gives off: Ascending Br., which joins trunk of facial in aqueductus Fallopii j Descending Br., which joins auricular branch of facial. Pharyngeal Br. — Arises from upper part of ganglion of the trunk j Crosses internal carotid art. either in front or behind j Anast. with glosso-pharyngeal, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic, and forms pha- ryngeal plexus to muscles & mucous membrane of pharynx. Sup. Laryngeal N. — Arises from middle of ganglion of the trunk. Descends by side of pharynx behind int. carotid artery, and divides into: EXT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Joins with pharyngeal plexus & sup. car- diac nerve, and supplies crico-thyroid & inf. constrictor. INT. LARYJyGEAL BR. — Pierces thyro-hyoid membrane to aryte- noid muscle and mucous membrane of larynx, base of tongue & aryteno-epigiottideau fold^c^ ReCUrr, Laryngeal N. — -^i"- in front of, and passes below & behind, subclav. a/fc. on right side, arch of aorta, on left, giving twigs to deep cardiac plexus; Behind comm. carotid & inf. thyroid arteries, and in groove between trachea & oesophagus. Beneath inf. constrictor to all the muscles of the larynx except crico-thyi'oid. Gives brs. to inf. constrictor, and anastomoses with ext. laryngeal Cardiac Brs. — Divided into: Cervical Cardiac )TT-j xt -cr x Thoracic Cardiac 5 ^^'^^ ^^^^^^ Pulmonary Brs. — Divided into Anterior and Posterior, and form the ant. & post. pulmonary plexuses. (Vide nerves of the lung.) CEsophageal Brs. — Arise, some above, but most of them below, the pulmonaiw. Gastric Brs. — Right pneumogastrio supplies post, aspect of stomach and joins so- lar & splenic plexuses; left pneumog. supplies ant. aspect, and joins left hejpatio pleaewn.239 PHRENIC NERVE. Phrenic or Int. Respiratory of Sir^C. Bell - From 3rd, 4th, and usually also from 5th Downwards & inwards in frolit of scalenus anticus. (cervicalng. Between subclavian vein & 1st part of subclavian artery crossing internal mammary, and receiving a filament from sympathetic, sometimes another from 5th & 6th, cervical nerves, and occasionally on the left side, one from the ansa hypoglossi. Crosses arch of Aorta & pulmonary artery, on the left side. Descends, on the right side, on outer side of right innominate vein & sup. vena cava. In front of root of lung & along side of pericardium to diaphragm, and divides in. to branches which perforate the diaphragm and supply it by its under surface. Both nerves give off twigs to the pericardium & pleura, and join with the^phrenic plexus of the sympathetic, the right nerve sending also a few filaments to the diaphragmatic ganfflion.240 CORONARY or CARDIAC VESSELS. CORONARY OR CARDIAC ARTERIES — Two. From uppsr part of the bulgings corresponding to the two anterior sinuses of Valsalva just above free margin of semi- lunar valves. Left or Anterior - The smaller. Forwards & to the left between pulmonary artery & left auricular appendix, and divides into branches: Horizontal - The smaller; along left auriculo-ventricular groove, and joins with horizontal branch of right or posterior coronary. Descending - The larger; along anterior interventricular groove to apex of heart, where it joins with descending branch of right or posterior coronary. Right or Posterior - The larger. Forwards & to the right between pulmonary artery & right auricular appendix, and then backwards along right auriculo- ventricular groove, sending a large branch down riarht border of heart, and divides into branches • Horizontal - The smaller • along left auriculo-ventricular groove, and joins with horizontal branch of left or anterior coronary. Descending - The larger; along posterior interventricular groove to apex of heart, where it joins with descending branch of left or anterior coronary. CORONARY OR CARDIAC VEINS. Great Cardiac Vein - Ascends from apex of heart along anterior interventricular groove, turns backwards along left auriculo-ventricular groove, receiving an ascending branch of some size from left border of heart, and opens into . left extremity of the coronary sinus, its opening being guarded by two valves. Posterior Cardiac Vein - Ascends from apex of heart, where it communicates with preceding, along posterior interventricular groove, and opens into right extremity of coronary sinus, its opening being guarded by a valve. It receives the veins from the posterior surface of both ventricles. Coronary Sinus - Thick trunk about an inch long situated at back part of left auriculo-ventricular groove, and partly covered & concealed by muscular fibres of left auricle. It receives the great & posterior cardiac veins, and a small vein, the remnant of the left superior cardinal vein of the embryo (Marshall), which passes downwards & to the right along back part of left auricle. It opens into the lower & back part of the right auricle close to the septum, below the opening of the inferior vena cava & Eustachian valve. Its opening is guarded by the valve of Thebesius. Small or Anterior Cardiac Veins & Vense Cordis Minimse - Several smaii branches, which collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and from the muscular substance of the heart, and which open separately into the lower part of the right auricle (foramina Thebesii) ; one, larger than the others, runs along the right border of the heart.THORAX, II. 29242 PULMONARY VESSELS, PULMONARY ARTERY. Short thick trunk about two inclieg long, which conveys the venous blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. Arises from apex of infundibulum of right ventricle opposite upper border of 3rd costal cartilage of left side close to sternum. Upwards, backwards & to the left, winding spirally in front & then to the left of ascending portion of arch of aorta, the two vessels being contained in one tubular sheath of the serous layer of the pericardium. - On either side of the artery are the auricular appendices & the coronary arteries j behind it are the aorta & the left auricle. Pierces fibrous layer of pericardium, and divides below & in front of transverse portion of aroh of aorta into: - Kight Pulmonary Artery - The larger & longer. To the right behind ascending aorta & superior vena cava to root of right lung, in which it lies, both from before backwards and from above downwards, between the pulmonary veins & the bronchus. Divides into* Superior Branch - The smaller, to superior & middle lobes. Inferior Bkanch - The larger, to inferior lobe. Left Pulmonary Artery - The smaller & shorter, connected at its root by remains of ductus arteriosus to under surface of arch of aorta. To the left in front of descending aorta, lying, in root of left lung, above the veins & the bronchus, but behind the former & in front of the latter. Divides into: Superior Branch - The smaller, to superior lobe. Inferior Branch - The larger, to inferior lobe. PULMONARY VEINS. Usually four. Commence upon the intercellular passages & air-cells in the capillary network of the pulmonary artery, but are also continuous with some of the terminal ramifications of the bronchial arteries. Their smaller divisions are but very little larger than the corresponding branches of the pulmonary artery, and they accompany these singly, and form a single trunk for each lobule. Their larger branches are destitute of valves, and form a single trunk for each lobe, the trunk from the middle lobe of the right lung uniting with that from the upper. The two trunks from right lang pass behind superior vena cava, right auricle & ascend- ing aorta, and those from left lung cross anteriorly the descending aorta; all are invested anteriorly by serous layer of pericardium. In the lung the pulmonary vessels are generally found to lie in front of the correspond- ing bronchial tubes, the artery being above the vein. In the roots of the lunga the pulmonary veins lie in front of the arteries, and the arteries in front of the bronchus; and the order from below upwards is veins, artery^ bronchus, on the right side, veins, bronchus, artery, on the left. There is sometimes a small distinct vein for middle lobe of right lung. The two left pulmonary veins often unite into one trunk.243 THE LUNGS. Light, porous, crepitant, elastic. Of a pinkish white at birth, of a mottled siate colour in the adult* the mottling be- coming darker & darker as age advances. Smooth & shining, marked out by dark lines into polygonal spaces corresponding to the bases of the superficial lobules, ■which spaces are variously crossed by other more delicate lines. Conical in shape, and present : - Outer Surface - Convex, deepest behind. Presents on either side a deep fissure oblique downwards & forwards from near apex to base, and, on the right side, another fissure oblique upwards & forwards from the middle of the foregoing. By these fissures the left lung is divided into two lobes, the right one into three j the inferior lobe is the largest in both lungs, and the middle lobe of the right side, the smallest of all. Inner Surface - Concave, deeply excavated in front, especially on the left side, to make room for the heart; presents the hilum a little above & behind its middle. Anterior Border - Thin, oblique, shorter than the posterior, deeply notched inferiorly on the left side so as to expose the pericardium; comes in contact with its fellow behind middle of sternum, the pleurae alone being interposed. Posterior Border - Thick, rounded, vertical, longer than the anterior. Base - Broad, concave, oblique downwards & backwards ; rests upon diaphragm, and its circumference fits into the groove between the diaphragm & the ribs. Descends lower down on the left side than on the right. Apex - Passes up into root of neck an inch or an inch & a half above first rib, and, under cover of the scaleni, comes into cioso contact with first & second portions of sub. clavian artery. The Right Lung is the shortest in consequence of the diaphragm ascending higher on the right side than on the left; the broadest owing to the inclination of the heart to the left; and somewhat the largest. - The Left Lung is the long^st^ narrowest^ and somewhat the smallest. THE ROOT of the LUNG Consists of the bronchus, pulmonary & bronchial vessels, lymphatic vessels & glands, and pulmonary plexuses of the pneumogastric & sympathetic, which parts are all enclosed in a pleural sheath, and are bound together by areolar tissue in the following order: Feom Before Backwards On Either Side: - Pulmonary veins with the anterior pulmonary plexus ; Pulmonary artery ; Bronchus with the bronchial vessels^ lymphatics vessels dr^ glands, and the posterior pulmonary plexus. From Below Upwards On Right Side - Pulmonary veins, pulmonary artejy, bronchus, with &c. On Left Side - Pulmonary veins, bronchus, pulmonary artejy. THE BOOT OF THE RIGHT LUNG — Lies behind the superior vena cava & the right auricle; the vena azygos major arches over it from Jehindo THE EOOT OF THE LEFT LUNG — Passes beneath the arch of the aortfci behind it are the descending portion of the arch, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct. - The root of each lung has also in fronc of it the phrenic nerve, and behiiid. it, the pneumogastric.244 THE PLEURA. Surrounds the lung, lines the parietes of the thorax, and forms the lateral boundary of the mediastina. Tracing it horizontally from the sternum it passes • - Over costal cartilages^ ribs, intercostal spaces; Forwards along side of posterior mediastinum ; Outivards over postefior aspect of root of lung ; Round posterior part of inner surface, posterior border^ outer surface, anterior border^ ante-. rior part of the inner surface of lung, dipping into the fissures between the lobes^ Inwards ewer anterior aspect of root of lung ; Forwards along side of pericardium to sternum, Inferiorlv it covers the diaphragm, from which a thin triangular fold, the ligamentum latum pulmonis, passes up along the side of the pericardium to the inner surface of the lung & to the lower border of its root. Superiorly it ascends into the neck an inch or an inch & a half above the first rib, and, under cover of the scaleni, comes in contact with the first & second portions of the subclavian artery. It is thin nest & most adherent over the lung & over the diaphragm. It is thickest & least ad- hereut over the thoracic walls. Its inner surface is covered by a layer of pavement epi- thelium, and is moistened by a serous fluid. Its arteries are from the intercostals, internal mammary, phrenic, inferior thyroid, pericardiac, & bronchial. - Its veins correspond to its arteries. - The lymphatics of the visceral layer join with those of the lung; the lymphatics of the parietal layer join with those of the mediastina & the thoracic walls. - Its nerves are derived from the pulmonary plexuses ((KoUiker), and from the phrenic & sympathgtic nerves (Lushka). The two pleurae come in contact behind the middle of the aternum.245 THE MEDIASTINUM. le the antero-posterior septum comprised between tiie two lunga & piearss. rb is divided into three parts by the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. Anterior Mediastinum - is the part in front of the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. Itts narrow above, where it contains the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, the upper part of the left internal mammary vessels, a large quantity of loose areolar tissue, & a few lymphatic glands. It is narrower still behind the middle piece of the sternum, where the two pleurae come in direct contact as low down as the 4bh costal cartilage. Quite inferiorly, in consequence of the notch in the lower part of the anterior border of the left lung, it expands to the left behind the 4th & 5th intercostal spaces of the left sidej here it contains the lower part of the left internal mammary vessels, & that part of the triangularis sterni muscle, which overlies the apex of the heart. Middle Mediastinum - is the part which contains the pericardium, heart & large vessels (ascending aorta, pulmonary vessels, superior vena cava; - the inferior vena cava enters pericardium through opening in cordiform tendon of diaphragm), and also the phrenic nerves. It is the widest part of the mediastinum. Posterior Mediastinum - Is the part behind the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. It contains the descending aorta, trachea, oesophagus j the venae azygos major & minor & the left superior intercostalj the pneumogastric & splanchnic nerves; the thoracic duct; fat & lymphatic glanda. Superior Mediastinum.—in the Ninth Edition of Quain's Anatomy, Profef=8or Thane cuts oS the npper part of the mediastinnm as hitherto described to form the Supkrioe Mebiastinum. '' The Supeeior Mediastinum may be considered " as bounded below by a plane passing through the lower part of the body of the " fourth dorsal vertebra behind, and the junction of the manubrium with the body " of the sternum in front. Its upper limit corresponds with the superior aperture " of the thoras. In front are the manubrium and the lower ends of the sterno. "hyoid and sterno.thyroid muscles; and behind are the upper four dorsal " vertebrse and the lower ends of the longus colli muscles.'*^ It contains the trachea, " oesophagus and thoracic duct; the whole of the transverse part of the arch of " the aorta, the innominate artery, and those parts of the left common carotid " and subclavian arteries which are contained within the thorax; the innominate •'veins and upper part of the superior vena cava; the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, the left recurrent, and the cardiac nerves; and the cardiac lymphatic " glands and remains of the thymus gland."—C^wam's Anatomy, Vol, II., p. 477.)246 THE TRACHEA & BRONCHI. THE TRACHEA. From 5th cervical vertebra to 3rd dorsal. Pirnij rounded, & supported by cartila. ginous rings in front, flattened & membranous behind. Relations. In FfiONT - Isthmus of thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, & thyroidea ima artery (when the latter exists). Remains of thymus gland, left innominate vein, arch of aorta with innominate & left common carotid arteries, great or deep cardiac plexus, bifurcation of pulmonaiy artery. Sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, anastomotic branch between the anterior jugular veins, sternum, fascia, & skin. Behind - (Esophagus, which deviates to the left towards lower part of neck; right recurrent laryngeal nerve. On Either Side - Lateral lobe of thyroid gland; common carotid artery, internal jugu. lar vein, pneumogastric & sympathetic nerves; inferior thyroid artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve (the right nerve lies some- what behind the trachea). Innominate & common carotid arteries, pneumogastric & left recur- rent laryngeal nerves; - and farther off, but internally to the pleurae, right innominate vein & right phrenic nerve, on the right side, left subclavian artery & left phrenic nerve, on the left. THE BRONCHI Commence opposite the 3rd dorsal vertebra a little to the left of the middle line; the internal septum which marks the separation of the two tubes being slightly deviated to the left by the preponderance in diameter of the right bronchus over the left one. Both divide in the root of the lung into a large inferior and a somewhat smaller superior branch, the former of which, on the right side, gives off" a small branch to the middle lobe of the right lung. RIGHT BRONCHUS - About an inch in length, wider, more horizontal than the left one; enters root of lung opposite 4th dorsal vertebra. - It lies behind the superior vena cava & the right auricle; the right pulmonary artery lies at first below it, and then in front of it; the vena azygos major arches over it from behind. LEFT BRONCHUS —Smaller, more oblique, nearly two inches long; enters root of lung opposite 5th dorsal vertebra. - It passes beneath the arch of the aorta; the left pulmonary artery lies at first above it, and then in froat of it; behind it are the descending portion of the arch, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct.247 THE OESOPHAGUS. Commences in middle line of neck opposite Sth cervical vertebra & lower border of cricoid cartilage. Downwards & to the left behind trachea, left lobe of thyroid gland & left recurrent laryngeal nerve, coming into close contact with left common carotid. Downwards & to the right behind lower end of trachea & commencement of left bronchus, and between arch of aorta & thoracic duct on the left & the vena azygos major on the right, regaining middle line opposite 5th dorsal vertebra. Again to the left between heart & pericardium in front and lower part of thoracic aorta be- liind, being surrounded by the pneumogastrics, which tend, the left one to the front, the right one to the back. Through oesophageal opening of diaphragm, and opens into stomach (cardiac or oesophageal opening) opposite 9th dorsal vertebra. Is from 9 to 10 inches long.248 THE VEN^ AZYGOS. Collect the blood from the intercostal spaces, and are three in number, the major, minor, A left superior. VENA AZYGOS MAJOR, or RIGHT AZYGOS - Commences in the right as- cending lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from the inferior cava or the right renal. Through aortic opening of diaphragm on right side of thoracic duct, behind & on right side of aorta; - sometimes through right crug. Along right side of spine in front of right intercostal arteries to 3rd dorsal vertebra. Arches forwards over root of right lung, and opens into superior vena cava just before it enters pericardium. Receives*. Tributary Branches : - Nine or ten lower intercostal veins of right side, vena azygos minor, several small oesophageal, mediastinal dr» spinal veins, the right bronchial, sometimes the right superior intercostal, and occasionally the left one. VENA AZYGOS MINOR, or LEFT LOWER AZYGOS - Arises in left ascend. ing lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from left renal. Perforates left crus of diaphragm (passes sometimes through aortic opening), and ascends along left side of spine in front of left intercostal arteries to 6th or 7th dorsal vertebra. Crosses spine behind aorta & thoracic duct, and opens into vena azygos major. Receives • Tributary Branclies: - Four or five lower intercostal veins of left side, several small mediastinal^ oesophageal (Sr* tpinal veins. LEFT UPPER AZYGOS — Receives the blood from those left intercostal veins, usually two or three in number, which are situated between the intercostal veins that open into the left lower azygos and those that open into the left superior inter- costal. It therefore varies greatly in size, diminishing as these latter veins in- crease, & vice versa ; often it does not exist at all, or one or more of the 5th, 6th, & 7th left intercosal veins may merely open directly into the vena azygos major. When there is a distinct left upper azygos, it opens either into the azygos major, or into the left lower aeygos. ^ A few imperfect valves are found in the main aflygos vein; distinct valves are found in the intercostal veins,249 THE THORACIC & RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCTS. THORACIC DUCT — Commenoea in receptaculum chyli, passes through aortic opening of diaphragm, and then ascends in front of spine as high as 4th dorsal vertebra, /yiug behind oesophagus, between aorta & vena azygos major. It then inclines to the left, and ascends first behind arch of aorta and then behind first portion of subclavian artery of left sidej and finally, opposite upper border of 7th cervical vertebra, it arches forwards above pleura & in front of scalenus anticus, and opens into angle of junction between left internal jugular & subclavian veins, its opening being guarded by a pair of valves. It is somewhat tortuous in its course, constricted at intervals on account of the valves it contains; of the size of a goose-quill at its commencement, somewhat narrower in the thorax, again enlarged at the root of the neck. Somecimos it bifurcates, its left division taking the usual course, its right division joining the right lymphatic duct. - It is the common trunk of all the lymphatics of the body, except those of the right side of the head, neck, & thorax, right upper limb, right lung, right side of the heart, & part of the convex surface of the liver. Receptaculum Chyli - is a dilatation of the commencement of the thoracic duct, which lies in front of the 2nd lumbar vertebra, behind & to right side of the aorta, and between it and the vena azygos major & the right crus of the diaphragm. It receives the trunks of the lacteal vessels, and four or five large trunks from the lumbar lymphatic gland?. RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT — Is a short thick trunk from half an inch to an incii in length and of about a line or a line & a half in diameter, which collects the lymph from the right side of the head, neck, & thorax, right upper limb, right lung, i-ight side of the heart, & part of the convex surface of the liver. It opens into the angle of junction between the right internal jugular & right subclavian veins, its oponing being guarded by a pair of valves. SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. From upper & back part of 1st portion of subclavian on left side, of 2nd portion on right side. Passes backwards for a short distance, and gives off its deep cervical branch ; it then descends in front of neck of 1st rib, or in front of necks of 1st & 2nd ribs on outer side of 1st dorsal gang- lion of sympathetic, gives off one or two branches similar to the aortic intercostals, and joins with the first of the latter arteries. Deep Cervical or Pbofunda Cervicis - Sometimes arises directly from subclavian. Backwards between neck of 1st rib & transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, and ascends between complexns & semispinalis colli, anasto- mosing with vertebral artery & deep branch of arteria princeps cervicis. ^ SO250 INTERIOR of the HEART. RIGHT SIDE. Is larger in its auricular portion, and has thinner walls than the left. AURICLE — Divided into: Appendix Auriculse - Narrow indented pouch, which overlaps the arch of the aorta, and presents on its inner surface the musculi pectinatit which extend somewhat into the sinus. Sinus - The central cavity; presents: - Opening of the Superior Vena Cava - Somewhat smaller than that of the inferior cava; situated at the upper & front part; looks down- wards & forwards, and has near it the Tubercle of Lower — Small eminence, scarcely visible in man, situated on ri(?ht wall of auricle between the two vense cavse. Opening gi- the Inferior Vena Cava - Somewhat larger than that of the superior cava; situated at the lower & back part near the septum ; looks upwards & inwards, and presents the Eustachian Valve - Semilunar in form with concave free, and convex at- tached margins; situated below the opening of the inferior vena cava between it & the auriculo-ventricular opening, and passes up- wards & to the left to the anterior margin of the annulus ovalis. Small in the adult. Contains a few muscular fibres. Opening op the Coronary Sinus - Situated below the opening of the inferior vena cava & the Eustachian valve. Presents the Coronary Valve or Valve of Thebesius. Foramina Thebesii - Some of which are the openings of the vense cordis minimae, while others are but small blind depressions. AuRicuLO.Ventricular Opening - With the tricuspid valve (Vide below). Foramen Ovale - In the foetus. Situated at the lower & back part of septum above opening of inferior vena cava; replaced in adult by the Fossa Ovalis - Oval depression surrounded by a prominent circular rim, the Annulus Ovalis^ - and which often presents a small valvular open".ng at its upper part. VENTRICLE — Triangular in shape, and has much thinner walls than the left one. Prolonged upwards & to the left into the Infundibulum or Conns arteriosus. Presents: - Aueiculo-Ventricular Opening - Oval, broadest from side to side. Situated behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal car- tilages, on the right side of the aortic & left auriculo-ventricular openings. Guarded by the? Tricuspid Valve - Presents three triangular segments, which are attached superiorly to the margin of the auriculo-ventricular ring & laterally to each other, and of which the left one is the largest. They are formed by a central fibrous lamina attached superiorly to the fib- rous ring of the opening and covered by a duplicature of the endo- cardium. Their under surface & borders give attachment to the chordce tendinece. Opewing of the Pulmonary Artery - Situated at the apex of the conus arte- riosus opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. Guarded by the Semilunar Valves - Three; formed of fibrous tissue surrounded by a du- plicature of the endocardium, and present: Convex margin - Attached to the fibrous ring of the orifice; Free margin - Slightly concave, strengthened by a bundle of tendinous fibres, presenting in the centre a fibro-cartilaginous nodule, the corpus Arantii, and laterally two thin lunated portions, the lunulcs. Above the valves are three small pouches, the Sinuses of Valsalva. CoLUMNiE Carney - Three sorts, which are attached respectively by one side, by both extremities, by one extremity only, to the wall of the ven- tricle. The latter are the Musculi Papillares - Three or four j give origin to the Chorda Tendinece.251 INTERIOR of the HEART. LEFT SIDE. Has thicker walls than the right, and is smaller in its auricular portion. AURICLIj — Divided, as is the right, into two parts, the Appendix Auriculae - Longer, narrower, more curved & indented than on right side, eud constricted at its orifice; its mnsculi pectinati are smaller & less numerous. Overlaps pulmonary artery. Sinus - More regularly cuboid than on right side. - Presents: Openings op the Pulkonary veins - Four, at upper part, two on the right clo?e to septum, two on the left, the latter sometimes uniting. Auricuio-Ventricular Opening - With the Mitral valve (Vide below). VENTRICLE — Rounded & conical; its walls are thicker than those of £h.e right. Presents: Auetculc-Yentricular Opening - Situated opposite centre of sternum on a level with third costal cartilages, between & behind the aortic & right auriculo-ventricular openings, or rather directly behind the aortic open- ing (Sibson), Somewhat smaller than on right side. Presents the Mitral Valve - Larger, thicker & stronger than the tricuspid. Consists of two principal segments, of which the largest ia in front. The chordae tendinese attached to its under surface are stronger & thicker, but are less numerous, than those on the right side. Aortic Opening - Situated behind centre of sternum on a level with lower border of 3rd costal cartilage, and directly in front of the left auriculo-ventri- cular opening. Presents the Semilunar Valves - Larger, thicker & stronger than those of pulmonary artery; lunulae wider, corpora Arantii more prominent, and sinuses of Valsalva deeper. CoLUMNiE Carney - Those attached by one side and those attached by both extre- mities are smaller & more numerous. The musculi papillares are but two in number, but aro larger, and are attached, one to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall of the ventriole.252 STRUCTURE of the HEART-lst Tablet. Presents for examination the fibrous rings of the arterial & auriculo-ventricular openinga, and the muscular fibres. Tl BROUS RINGS — The aortic & the two auriculo-ventricular rings lie close together behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal cartilages, and are bound together by a fibro-cartilaginous mass which becomes ossified in some of the larger animals. - The aortic ring lies ia front of the left auriculo-ventricular; the right auriculo-ventricular ring lies between, & to the right of, the two others. - The fibrous ring of the pulmonary artery is situated at the apex of the infundibulam opposite the upper border of the 3rd costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. These rings give attachment to the mitral .tricuspid & semilunar valves, to the muscular fibres of the auricles, and to some of the most superficial fibres of the ven- ti'icles. The margin of the arterial rings which is turned towards the auricles, is scalloped into three semilunar notches filled up by corresponding projections of the middle coat of the artery, the attachment of the arteries to the rings being strength- ened externally by the pericardium and internally by the endocardium. MUSCULAR FIBRES — -A-re striated, but are about | smaller than those of striated mus- cles generally, and their striation is not so distinct. They divide and anastomose with each other, and they often contain fat cells. Their perimysium is but scanty. Fibres of the Auricles - ■A^i'Q mostly transverse, superficial, & common to both auricles; some however lie deeper, and are proper to each auricle. SuPEKFiCJAL, Teaksveese, OR CoMMON FIBRES - Surrouud mainly the base of the sinuses, and are most marked anteriorly. Some dip into the inter- aurioular septum. Deei' OR Proper Fibres - May be divided into: Looped Fibres - Arch over each auricle from before backwards, and are at- tached to the auriculo-ventricular rings both in front & behind. Annular Fibres - Encircle the appendices aurioulse, and the venae cavge, pul- monary & coronary veins, extending for some distance upon the veins. Fibrss of the Ventricles - Vi<i© aext Tablet.253 STRUOTUEE of the HEART-2nd Tablet. FIBRES OP THE VENTRICLES Form seven layers diflfering from each other by the direction of their fibres. These layers are continuous with each other at the apex & at the base of the heart as follows : - the 1st, or most external layer, with the 7th, or most internal layer. „ 2nd, „ 6th, „ 3rd, „ 5th, The fibres of the 4th or central layer return upon those of the same set. Together, the 1st & 7th layers form a kind of double ring inclosing all the other layers; the 2nd and 6th layers, a kind of double ring inclosing the 3rd, 4th, and 5th layers; the 3rd and 5th layers, a kind of double ring inclosing the 4th layer. As a conse- quence the double ring formed by the 1st and 7th layers extends farther towards the apex & the base of the heart than the double ring formed by the 2nd & 6bh lavers, which latter double ring extends farther than the double ring formed by the Srd & 5th layers ; and the 4th or central layer is the least extensive of all. This explains the greater thickness of the walls of the ventricles towards the middle of their length than at either extremity. - The outer layers, it may be added, are thinner than the inner ones. The fibres of the three outer layers are inclined downwards & to the left on the anterior aspect of the heart, downwards & to the right on the posterior aspect; and they become less vertical in each successive layer. The fibres of the 4fch layer are horizontal or transverse. The fibres of the three inner layers are inclined upwards & to the left on the anterior aspect of the heart, upwards & to the right on the posterior aspect, crossing the fibres of the three outer layers, and becoming more & more vertical or longitudinal in the successive strata. Some of the superficial fibres, especially those of the posterior surface, pass round and en- close both ventricles; the mass of the fibres, however, enclose but one ventricle. In the three outer layers the anterior fibres proper to the left ventricle issue from the inner & front part of the corresponding arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings & from the front of the interventricular septum; these anterior fibres pass downwards & to the left, with a few of the anterior common superficial fibres, and get to the back part of the apex. The posterior fibres proper to the left ventricle issue from the outer & back part of the corresponding arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings & from the back of the interventricular septum; these posterior fibres pass downwards & to the right, with a somewhat considerable number of the posterior common superficial fibres, and get to the front of the apex. Here all the fibres, both anterior & posterior, curl inwards iu a whirl-like manner, the anterior fibres going to form the three inner strata on the posterior wall of the ventricle, and the posterior fibres going to form the three inner strata on the anterior wall. In the right ventricle the fibres of the three outer layers issue partly from the correspond- ing arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings, and are partly continuous with the posterior common superficial fibres. Descending spirally from left to right on the posterior aspect of the heart, and from right to left oathe anterior aspect, they reach the anterior interventricular groove. Here a few fibres are continued on to the left ventricle, forming the anterior common superficial fibres; the greater number pass backwards, however, in the interventricular septum, at the back of which they decus- sate with the fibres of the left ventricle, and blend with the posterior common super- superficial fibres. It must be added that none of the fibres, except a few of the most superficial ones, can now be said to arise from the arterial & auriculo-ventricular rings. The strata are merely continued opposite these rings, the superficial ones into the deep ones, and vice vena.254 NEBVES of the HEAKT Are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which plexuses are formed by the cardiac branches of the sympathetic and of the pnemnogastric & recurrent laryngeal. CARDIAC NERVES — Are the three cardiac nerves of the sympathetic, the cervical- cardiac & the thoraciccardiac nerves of the pneumogastric, and the cardiac bran- ches of the recurrent laryngeal. CARDIAC NERVES OF THE SYMPATHETIC - Are three in number, supei'ior or superficial^ middle or great, &^ inferior, and arise normally from the cor- responding cervical ganglia. The; superior cardiac nerve, however, frequently arises partly from the communicating cord below the superior ganglion, and the inferior one partly from the first dorsal ganglion; when the middle ganglion is absent the middle cardiac nerve arises from the commiinicating cord between the superior & inferior ganglia. These nerves pass downwards & inwards to the base of the heart either singly or in con- nection with each other or with the other cardiac nerves, varying considerably in their relative size and in their precise relations to adjoining structures; when one of them is smaller than usual one of the others is increased in size. On the right side of the neck the superior &' the middle cardiac nerves pass downwards behind the common carotid artery, the former passing also in front of the inferior thyroid artery & recurrent laryngeal nerve. They then cross the subclavian artery either in front or behind, and descend tipon the trachea to the right side of the great or deep cardiac plexus. - On the left side the superior cardiac ne7've usually descends into the thorax between ^ in front ^the left co??tmon carotid left subclavian arteries and crosses anteriorly the arch of the aorta to the superfi' cial cardiac plexus ; sometimes however it lies deeper than usual and then passes "behind the aorta to the deep cardiac plexus. - The left middle cardiac nerve passes into the thorax between dr^ behind the left common carotid left subclavian arteries, and then descends behind the arch of the aorta to the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve passes downwards & inwards to the deep cardiac plexus behind the subclavian artery, and also, on the right side, behind the innofninate. CARDIAC NS. of the PNEUMOGASTRIC & RECURR. LARYNGEAL Are divided into: Cervical Cardiac - Are divided into: Upper Cervical Cardiac - Small branches which join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. Lower Cervical Cardiac - One large branch which, on the right side, des- cends along the innominate artery and joins one of the cardiac nerves destined to the deep cardiac plexus, and, on the left side, crosses the arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. Thoracic Cardiac - Arise on the right side both from the trunk of the pneumo. gastric & from its recurrent laryngeal branch, but on the left side from the recurrent branch only. They all go to the deep cardiac plexus either singly or in connection with the other deep cardiac nerves.255 THE CABDIAC PLEXUSES. The cardiac nerves form two primary cardiac plexuses termed the superficial & the deep or great, and two secondary plexuses, the anterior & th^ posterior coronary, which two latter plexuses are derived from the preceding, as are also in part the anterior & the posterio? pulmonary plexuses. SUPERFICIAL CARDIAC PLEXUS — The smaller. Is situated beneath arch of aorta in front of right pulmonary artery and on right side of ductus arteriosus. It com- municates by several filaments with the left half of the deep cardiac plexus. It is formed by the left superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, the left inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, and by several filaments from the deep cardiao plexus. It often presents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Wrisberg. It gives off the greater part of anterior coronary plexus, and several filaments to anterior pulmonary plexus of left side. DEEP OR GREAT CARDIAC PLEXUS The larger. Is situated between trachea & arch of aorta, its right half lying above right branch of pulmonary artery, its left half lying rather on left side of trachea and being connected by several filaments with the superficial plexus. It is usually formed by every one of the cardiac nerves excepting the left superior cardiao nerve of sympathetic & left inferior cervical cardiao nerve of pneumogastric. Its right half sends branches - behind right pulmonary artery to posterior coronary plexua & to right auricle; - in front of right pulmonary artery, outwards, to right anterior pulmonary plexus, inwards, in front of pulmonary trunk to anterior coronary pies as- - Its left half gives ofi": - several filaments to superficial cardiac plexus, numerous fila- ments to posterior coronary plexus & to left auricle, a few branches to left anterior pulmonary plexus. ANTERIOR CORONARY PLEXUS — Is derived chiefly from the superficial cardiao plexua, but partly also from the deep. It passes forwards between aorta & pulmonary artery and accompanies the left or anterior coronary artery & its branches. POSTERIOR C ORON ARY PLEXUS — Is derived chiefly from the left half of the deep cardiac plexus, but partly also from the right. Ita branches accompany the righi of posterior coronary artery and its branches. The filaments of the coronary plexuses ramify iu the substance of the heart and beneath the pericardium & endocardium. Numerous small ganglia are found upon them, especially in the vicinity of the boundary rings between the auricles & ventricles. SPLANCHNIC NERVES. tfsuaity three in number, and termed greaf, tess^r, & iead. Arise as follows from the six or seven lower dorsal ganglia : Gkeat Splanchnic Nerve - Ganglia from 5th or 6th to 9th or lOfch: - Is also con. nected with the dorsal ganglia above as high as the 3rd, or sometimes even as high as the Ist. Lesser Splanchnic Nerve - 10th & 11th ganglia. Least Splanchnic Nerve -12th ganglion. Pass downwards & inwards upon bodies of vertebrae being either uiore or less separate & distinct from each other, or more or less plexiform, and frequently presenting, when plexiform, either one relatively large ganglion, the ganglion splanchnicum, or several smaller ones. Perforate diaphragm conjointly or separately. End, the two first mainly in solar plexus, the last mainly in the renal. - The majority of thp fibres of the great splanchnic nerw descend directly to the semilunar ganglionof same side The great splanchnic nerves are white & firm in texture, as are also the branchp? of the superior mesenteric plexus256 GANGLIATED CORDS So GANGLIA of SYMPATHETIC. GANGLIATED CORDS — I^i© on each side & along the whole length of spinal column, con- verging inferiorly upon the coccyx in the ganglion impar, and being prolonged superiorly into the head along internal carotid artery. They are usually single, sometimes double, occasionally wanting here & there. Relatively to the size of the ganglia they are largest in the dorsal region. They are divided into : CorvicSll Portion " Ijies in front of transverse processss of cervical vertebrae behind internal jugular vein, and presents three ganglia (Yide Cervical portion of Sym- pathetic). Thoracic Portion - I^ies in front of heads of ribs & intercostal vessels, beneath pleurae, on outer side of venae azygos, at first at a small distance from, and then close to, bodies of vertebrae. It presents eleven or twelve ganglia. Lumbar Portion - Penetrates into abdomen, on right side through a small opening in right crus of diaphragm, on left side either through aortic opening or through a small separate opening in left crus. It lies in front of bodies of vertebrae on inner side of psoas, behind inferior vena cava on the right side, behind abdominal aorta on the left. It presents four or five ganglia, Sacral Portion - I^ies in front of sacrum on inner side of anterior sacral foramina, and, converging towards its fellow inferiorly, usually ends in the ganglion impar. PREVERTEBRAL GANGLIA — Usually three cervical, eleven or twelve dorsal, four or five lumbar, four sacral, one coccygeal. More or less oval or triangular in shape, and elongated from above downwards. Cervical - "Vide cervical portion of sympathetic. Dorsal - Lie most of them in front of heads of ribs, the nine or ten first at a little distance from, the two or three last close to, bodies of corresponding vertebrae; occasionally one or two ganglia lie opposite the corresponding intervertebral foramina. They are smaller than the cervical & lumbar. The first one is the largest and is often blended with the inferior cervical. The last one is usually stellate in shape, and is sometimes blended with the first lumbar. - They present: Roots, or Branches op Communication with the Dorsal Nerves - Usually two in number: - Either both ascend obliquely upwards & outwards to join the dorsal nerve above just before its bifurcation, or one ascends as above de- scribed, and the other descends to join the dorsal nerve below in corres- ponding situation. Sometimes one or two ganglia have a third root resulting from bifurcation of one of the roots to adjoining dorsal nerves, and even, occasionally, an additional root to second dorsal nerve above. Internal Branches, or Branches or Distribution - Those from five or six upper gang- lia are small & greyish; they mainly supply thoracic aorta & its branches, & bodies of vertebrae & their ligaments; those from third & fourth ganglia join posterior pulmonary plexus. Those from six or seven lower ganglia are larger & whiter J they give oflF a few small branches to aorta, and join to form the great, lesser, & last splanchnic nerves (V.Solar Plexus). Lumbar - Rather larger & more distinct than the dorsal, and situated at a greater distance from the corresponding intervertebral foramina, the first one often lying opposite body of second lumbar vertebra, and the last one opposite sacro-vertebral articula- tion. - They present: Eoots, ok Branches op Communication with the Lumbar Nerves - Two or three for each. Are longer & more slender than those of dorsal ganglia, and pass beneath the fibrous arches of psoas in company with lumbar arteries & veins. Internal Branches, or Branches op Distribution - Give a few twigs to bodies of ver- • tebrae & their ligaments, and assist in forming the aortic & hypogastric plexuses. Sacral - Smaller than the dorsal & lumbar, and diminish in size as they descend; lie close to inner side of anterior sacral foramina, those of opposite sides approximating as they descend, and usually blend in front of coccyx in a median ganglion, the coccygeal ganglion or ganglion impar. - They present EooTS, OR Branches op Communication with the Sacral Nerves - Usually two for each ganglion; are short & small. Internal Branches, or Branches op Distribution - Those of the two upper ganglia join inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus; the others descend upon the arteria sacra media^ and supply the sacrum & coccyx & their ligaments, and the coccygeal glanc|.THE L AR Y NX. 81THE LARYNX-lst Tablet. CARTILAGES —Nine? three single, three pairs THYROID — The largest. Consists of two quadrilateral plates or alee Joined in front at an acute angle, the highest & most prominent part of which angle is termed the Outer Surface - Presents on either side the pomum Adami. Presents: Oblique Line - For sterno-thyroid & thyro-hyoid} passes obliquely downwards & for- wards from tubercle near root of superior cornu. The surface behind gives attachment to inferior constrictor. Inner Surface - Covered by mucous membrane externally & above. Presents in middle line the J^eadin^ Angle - To whioh are attached the true & the false vocal cords, the thyro- arytsenoidei & -epiglottidei muscles, and the thyro-epiglottic ligament! & apex of the epiglottis.j Upper Border - Deeply notched opposite pomum Adami, rounded & prominent on either side of notch, concave laterally; gives attach, to thyro-hyoid membr. Lower Border - Shorter, straighter, connect^ lo cricoid cartilage by ci-ico-thyroid membrane & muscle. Posterior Border - Thick & rounded; gives attachment to stylo- & palato-pharyngei, and is prolonged upwards & downwards respectively into the Superior Cornu - Long, narrow; points upwards, backwards & inwards, and gives attachment to lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. Inferior Cornu - Shorter & thicker; points downwards forwards & inwards, and presents internally a small facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage. CRICOID — Annular in shape, broad behind, narrow in front; thicker & stronger, but! smaller than foregoing. Presents: Outer Surface - Grives attachment in front & at sides to crico-thyroideus & inferior con- stricter; and then presents on either side from before backwards: Tubercle - Surmounted by an articular facet, for articulation with lesser cornua of thy- BroadRough Depression-'^ov attachment of crico-arytgenoideus posticus^; ^o^d ^c^rtilagej Median Vertical Ridge - For attachment of longitudinal fibres of oesophagus. Inner Surface - Smooth, lined with mucous membrane of larynx. Upper Border - inclined downwards & forwards. Gives attachment in front h at sides to crico-thyroid membrane & crico-arytsenoideus lateralis, and presents at its posterior & highest part, on either side of a slight median notch, two small oval facets for articulation with arytaenoid cartilages. Lower Border - Horizontal; connected to first cartilaginous ring of trachea by fibrous membrane of that canal. ARYT-ENOID — Two, small, pyramidal. Eest upon posterior & highest part of upper bor- der of cricoid cartilage, and present; Anterior Surface - Convex, rough ; gives attachment to false vocal cord & upper fasci- Posterior Surface-Excavated for attach.of arytsenoideus. cuius of thyro-arytsenoideus. Internal Surface - The narrowest, flattened, covered with mucous membrane. Base - Broad. Presents a smooth concave facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage, > and three angles, of which angles two are prominent & important, viz., i Antero-Internal Angle-liou^ &'pointed; gives attachment to true vocal cord & to lower fasciculus of thyro-ai-ytsenoideus. Postero-Ext. Angle - Short & roimded; gives attach, to the crico-arytgenoidei lateralis & Apex- Pointed, curved backwards & inwards ; articulates on either side with the posticus. CORNICULA LARYNGIS or CARTILAGES of SANTORINI — Two small conical nodules of yellow elastic cartilage sometimes joined to apices of arytaetioid cartilages, which apices they prolong backwards & inwards. CUNEIFORM CARTILAGES or CARTILAGES of WRISBERG —Two small rods of yellow elastic cartilage directed upwards & outwards in free border of arytseno- epiglottidean folds a little in front of arytsenoid cartilages; their anterior ex- tremity is slightly enlarged. EPIGLOTTIS — Median lamella of yellow elastic cartilage in the form of a leaf with the stalk below, and the lamina or expanded part above. Presents: Apex - Long & narrow; attached by thyro-epiglottic ligament to upper part of receding Base - Broad, rounded, free. ^^S^e of thyroid cartilage. Anterior Surface - Free in its upper part, where it curves forwards towards base of tongue, to which it is connected by the three glosso-epiglottic folds; ad- herent below, where it is attached by hyo-epiglottio ligament to upper bor- der of hyoid bone. Posterior Surface - Free, smooth, concave from side to side, convex from above down- | wards. Covers superior aperture ov /'arynx during second act of deglutition, j and is studded with numerous small pits for the reception of mucous glaada. \ Lf^terdil Margins - Convex, directed backwards; connected to arytaenoid cartilages by I the arytseno-epiglottidafiiia foldi*259 THE LARYNX-~2nd Tablet. LIGAMENTS — Are, EXTRINSIC — Three; connect larynx to hyoid bono. ~They are? Thyro-Hyoid, Membrane - Broad fibro.elastio membrane from Upper border of thyroid cartilage to Upper border of hyoid bone, being separated from posterior surface of hyoid bone by a little loose cellular tissue in which a bursa is usually found. It is thickest towards middle and perforated laterally by superior laryn- geal vessels & nerves. Behind it are the epiglottis & the mucous mem- brane of the base of the tongue, with a considerable amount of adipose tissue & some mucous glands. Lateral Thyro-Hyoid Ligaments Rounded fibro.elastic cords from Superior cornua of thyroid cartilage to Extremities of greater cormta of hyoid bone. - These ligaments often contain a small cartilaginous nodule, the cartilago triticea. INTRINSIC — Connect cartilages of larynx as follows: On the one hand the cricoid to the thyroid & arytaenoid, on the other the epiglottis to the thyroid. - They are: CriCO'-Thyroid Membrane - Tellow elastic lamina divided into: Centkal Portion - Thick, triangular, broadest below; connects Contiguous margins of cricoid ^ thyroid. Lateral Portions - Thinner; extend from Upper border of cricoid cartilage as far back as crico-thyroid arthrodia to Lower border of inferior or true vocal cord, uniting firmly with the latter, especially in front. - The central portion is concealed by crico-thyroid muscles, except in mesial line, and is crossed by crico-thyroid branches of superior thyroid arteries; the lateral portions are covered by the thyro- & lateral crico-arytsenoid muscles, and are lined internally by mucous membrane of larynx. CricO-Tliyroid Capsules - Thin, strongest behind ; enclose the arthrodial articulations between cricoid & inferior cornua of thyroid, and are lined internally with synovial membrane. Posterior Crico-Arytsenoid. Ligament - Short but strong band from Back of cricoid cartilage to Back of base of arytcenoid. Crico-Arytsenoid Capsules - Thin* surround the arthrodial articulations between upper border of cricoid cartilage & bases of the arytaenoid, and are lined internally with synovial membrane. Thyro-Epiglottic Ligament - Long & slender band connecting Apex of epiglottis to Upper part of receding angle of thyroid. Hyo-Epiglottic Ligament ~ Somewhat indistinct; extends amidst a con- siderable amount of adipose tissue from Anterior surface of epiglottis to Upper border of hyoid bone. To the foregoing ligaments must be added the superior & inferior thyro-arytsenoid described with the vocal cords, and the somewhat indistinct abro-cartilaginous capsules frequently found^ between the arytsenoid cartilages & the oomicula laryngis.260 THE LARYNX-3rd Tablet. MUSCLES of the GLOTTIS — Are four on each side, and one in the middle line. CriCO-ThyroideuS - Front & sides of cricoid cartilage. Lower border & inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage. - S. by superior laryn- geal nerve. Tz'Us the thyroid cartilage forwards^ and thus elongates dr» tenses the vocal cords, ThyrO-ArytgenoideUS - Lower part of receding angle of thyroid cartilage, & posterior surface of crico-thyroid membrane. By two fasciculi into anterior surface of arytaenoid cartilage, and into anterior or internal angle of its base. - S. by recurrent laryngeal nerve. Draws the arytcenoid cartilage forwards, and thus shortens and relaxes the vocal cord ; it also assists in compressing the saccuhis laryngis. The former action is that of its lower & stronger fasciculus, which lies parallel with, & on the outer side of, the inferior or true vocal cord; the latter action is that of its upper & thinner | fasciculus, which lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis. CriCO-Arytsenoideus Lateralis - Side of upper border of cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S. by recur- rent laryngeal nerve. Rotate the arytcenoid cartilages so as to bring together their anterior or internal angles the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus constrict the glottis. CriCO-Arytsenoideus Posticus - Broad depression on side of posterior surface of j cricoid cartilage. 1 External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S. by recur-l rent laryngeal nerve. I Rotate the arytcenoid cartilages so as to separate their anterior or internal angles^ the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus dilate the glottis, \ ArytsenoideuS - Posterior surface & outer border of both arytaeuoid cartilages, pre- senting superficial oblique «fe deep transverse fibres. - S. by both the superior & the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. Bring together the two arytcenoid cartilages, and thus constrict the glottis, espe- cially in its posterior part, - Sometimes a small fasciculus, the Kerato-cricoideus (Merkel), extends, below the preceding, from the cricoid cartilage to the inferior I cornu of the thyroid cartilage. MUSCLES of the EPIGLOTTIS — Are three in number. Thyro-Epiglottideus or Depressor Epiglottidis - inner surface of the thyroid cartilage externally to origin of thyro-arytaeaoid. Margin of epiglottis & arytseno-epiglottideau fold. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the saccul'us laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Inferior or Compressor Sacculi Laryngis - Ary. tsenoid cartilage just above false vocal cord. Margin of epiglottis. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Superior - Apex of arytaenoid cartilage. Arytaeno-epiglottidean fold. Constricts the superior aperture of the larynx during the second act of deglutition. — The oblique fibres of the arytaenoideus are sometimes considered as belonging to the arytaeno.epiglottidei, which muscles would then decussate ia the middle line behind the horizontal fibres of the arytaanoideus, or arytaenoideus proper.261 THE LARYNX-4th Tablet. MUCOUS MEMBRANE Is stretched, on entering the larynx, between the arytsenoid cartilages & the epiglottis, forming the arytcEno-epiolottidean folds. These contain the thyro- & the arytseno- epiglottidean mtiseles, the cornicula laryngis & the cartilages of Wrisberg, and a large amount of loose cellnlar tissue, the "occasional infiltration of which tissue constitutes the so-called oedema of the glottis. It is thin, and of a pale rosy colour. It is particularly thin & adherent over the epiglottis, and still more so over the true vocal cords, where it is transparent enough for the ligamentous fibres to be seen through its substance. Its epithelium is columnar ciliated below the superior vocal cords, and also, in front, as high as the middle of the epiglottis; above these points it loses its cilia, and gradu. ally assumes the squamous form. It is squamous over the true vocal cords. It is highly sensitive in the upper part of the larynx. MlJCOUS GLANDS — Simple tubular, and conglomerate; particularly abundant over the posterior surface of the epiglottis, in which situation they are received into num- erous small pits in the substance of the cartilage; but they are found everywhere beneath the mucous membrane, excepting over the true vocal cords. The glands of the sacculus laryngis, from 60 to 70 in number, pour out their secretion upon the in- ferior or true vocal cords which it is destined to lubricate. The so-called arytcenoid glands are collected into a somewhat large mass in the arytaeao-epiglottidean folds, in front of the arytsenoid cartilages. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Are the laryngeal branches of the superior & inferior thyroid. - Veins. Open into the superior, middle & inferior thyroid. - Lym- PHATics. Terminate in the deep cervical glands. - Nerves. Are the superior and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric, and filaments from the sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane, the crico-thyroid muscle, & in part the arytsenoid; the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve supplies in part the arytsenoid, and all the other muscles, excepting the crico* thyroid.262 THE LARYNX-5th Tablet. INTERIOR of the LARYNX. Is divided in two by the glottis or rima glottidis. GLOTTIS or HIMA GLOTTIDIS — Antero-postenor opening comprised f^e- tween the inferior or true vocal cords in its anterior three-fourths, and between the arytsencid cartilages in its posterior fourth. In tranquil breathing it is triangular with base backwards. It is lozenge, shaped when fully dilated, as in violent inspirations. It ia reduced to a narrow slit when sound is emitted; the vocal cords then lying parallel to each other, and their degree of approximation & tension increasing with the height of the sound produced. In the adult male it is nearly an inch long, and may be dilated to nearly half an inch. In the female, and in the male before puberty, its dimensions are about one-third less. Inferior or True Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angle of thyroid cartilage below the false vocal cords to anterior or internal angle of the base of the arytaenoid cartilages. They consist of a strong band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the inferior ihyro-arytcenoid ligament^ which band is continuous inferiorly with the lateral portion of the crico- thyroid membrane, is covered internally by a very thin & adherent layer »f mucous membrane, and is strengthened externally by the thyro. arytaenoid muscle. PART ABOVE the GLOTTIS — Is broad & triangular, & presents for exami. nation: - Superior Aperture of the Larynx - Triangular, obliquely inclined downwards & backwards, and bounded in front by the epiglottis, & laterally by the arytseno-epiglottidean folds, Superior or False Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angle of thyroid cartilage above the true vocal cords to the anterior surface of the arytaenoid cartilages; they consist of a fold of mucous membrane con- taining a thin band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the superior thyrO' arytcenoid ligament, from which a delicate expansion extends over the sacculus laryngis. They bound superiorly the opening of the Ventricle of the Larynx -I^eep oblong saccular depression comprised between the superior & inferior vocal cords, and corresponding externally to the thyro-arytaenoid muscle. It is continued superiorly & in front by a nar- row opening into the Sacculus Laryngis or Laryngeal Pouch - A prolongation of the foregoing, which passes upwards & forwards between the superior vocal cord & the thyroid cartilage, and is covered externally by the thyro- epiglottideus & by the thin upper fasciculus of the thyro-arytaenoid, and internally by the arytaeno-epiglottideus inferior or compressor sacculi laryngis. The mucous lining of the pouch is supported by an expansion from the superior vocal cord, and presents the openings of from 60 to 70 mucous glands, whose secretion lubricates the inferior vocal cords. PART BELOW the GLOTTIS — Is flattened from side to side above, circular below, continuous inferiorly with canal of trachea.THE NERVE CENTRES & THEIR COVERINGS.264 COVERINGS of the BRAIN & CORD-lst Tablet. The immediate coverings of both are three in number, and though presenting marked differ- ences, they bear the same names, dtira mater, arachnoid <2r* pia mater» THE DURA MATER — is a thick, dense, fibrous membrane, which is lined internally by a stratum of squamous epithelial cells formerly called the parietal layer of the arachnoid. iDura Mater of the Brain - Forms the internal periosteum of the skull; it is pro- longed round all the cranial nerves, blending with their sheaths and becoming at their point of exit continuous with the pericranium; it is also prolonged into the orbit. Its outer surface is rough & fibrillatedj it is most adherent opposite the sutures at the base of the skull, and presents superiorly numerous glandulae Pacchionii. Its inner surface is smooth; it sends three processes inwards, the falx cerebri and tbje fmiorium & Jalx cerebelli, in the attached margins of which processes are re- pectively contained the superior longitudinal, the lateral & superior petrosal, & the occipital sinuses, the falx cerebri having also the inferior longitudinal sinus in its free margin. Its arteries are derived from the middle & small meningeal, and from the meningeal branches of the anterior & posterior ethmoidal, internal carotid, ascending pharyn- geal, occipital & vertebral, which arteries however supply principally the bones of the skull. Its veins, with the exception of the two which accompany the middle meningeal, join with the diploic veins and open into the sinuses. - Its nerves are small branches from the fourth cranial nerve, the Casserian ganglion, the ophthal- mic branch of the fifth, the eighth, & the sympathetic. Dura Mater of the Cord - Differs from that of the brain in that it does not form the internal periosteum of the bodies & laminae of the vertebrae, which periosteum is a distinct fibrous membrane separated from the dura mater by loose areolar tissue & by a plexus of veins, in that it sends no prolongations inwards, contains no sinuses, and forms, especially in the cervical & lumbar regions, but a loose sheath round the cord and the roots of the spinal nerves. It is attached superiorly to the circumference of the foramen magnum, and anteriorly it is slightly adherent along its whole length to the posterior common ligament of the spine. Laterally when viewed from within, it is seen to give attachment to the processes of the ligamentum denticulatum, and to present a double series of foramina for the passage of the anterior & posterior roots of the nerves; when viewed from without it is seen to form a separate sheath to the roots of the nerves as far as their point of junction, and then to be continued upon the nerves, forming part of their neurilemma. Opposite the termination oj the cord it blends with the pia mater to form the ligamen- tum centrale, which passes down to the back of the coccyx, and which, in its upper part, contains the filiform prolongation of the grey >iKV*Ater of the cord termed the filum terminale.265 COVERINGS of the BRAIN & CORD-2nd Tablet. THE ARACHNOID Surrounds the brain & cord, from wliioh it is separated by the sub-arachnoidean space. Arachnoid of the Brain — On the upper surface of the hemispheres it is thin & transparent, and passes over the convolutions without dipping into the sulci. - At the base of the brain it is thicker and slightly opaque. Crossing from side to side between the two temporo-sphenoidal lobes and between tlio two hemispheres of the cerebellum & the medulla oblongata, it bounds inferiorly the anterior posterior subarachnoidean spaces. It is reflected round the cranial nerves in the shape of loose sheaths as far as their point of exit from the skull, where it becomes continuous with the parietal layer. Arachnoid of the Cord — Forms, especially in the lower part^ but a loose sheath round the cord & the roots of the nerves. This sheath is single round the two roots of each spinal nerve, and is continued as far as their exit from the dura mater; the arachnoid is also reflected over the processes of the ligamentiim denticulatum. THE SUBARACHNOIDEAN SPACE Is comprised between tlie pia mater & the visceral layer of the arachnoid, and contains the cerebro-spinal fluid. It usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain by an opening in the layer of pia mater which bounds the fourth ventriclo inferiorly. It is narrow on the surface of the hemispheres, but is greatly expanded both at the base of the brain in the situation of the anterior & posterior subarachnoidean spaces, and also round the spinal cord. It is crossed by numerous fibrous bands in the situation of the ba e of the brain and at the upper part of the back of the cord, and is partly subdivided by an incomplete membranous septum which connects the arachnoid with the pia mater opposite th© posterior median fissure. 32266 COVERINGS of the BRAIN & CORD-3rd Tablet. THE PIA MATER Oil the cerebrum & cerebellum the pia matdr is a delicate areolar membrane, very thin & vascular. It is thick, dense, and but slightly vascular, on the pons, the crura cerebri & the cord. It is everywhere intimately adherent to the nervous substa,!ico} it dips down between the convolutions of the cerebrum and the laminae of the cerebellum, and passes into the ante- rior and posterior median fissures of the cord j it is prolonged Tjpon the nervea and their roots. The pia maier of the brain penetrates into the ventricular cavities through the transvcrso fissnro, and forms the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses. - It usually presents an opening at the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle, by which opening the subarach. Eoidean space of the brain & cord communicates with the ventricular cavities of the brain. The pia mater of the cord presents anteriorly the linea splendens, 9, whitish longitudinal fibrous band, and laterally, the Hgameiitum denticulatum. This latter descends along the whole length of the side of the cord between the anterior & the posterior roots of the nerves; its outer edge is denticulated; the denticulations, about twenty-two iu number, cross the subarachnoidean space with the arachnoid reflected over them, and become attached to the dura mater in the intervals of the successive pairs of spinal nerves, Tho first denticu- lation is situated opposite the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery & the hypo- glossal nerve. — Opposite the termination of the cord the pia mater blends with the dura mater to form the ligamentum centrale, which latter passes down to the back of the coccyx, and, in its upper part, contains the filiform prolongation of the grey matter of the cord, termed the filum terminale.THE SURFACE of the CEREBRTTM. 267 The cerebral hernisplieres ai'e now described as presenting five lobes: the frontal, parietal, occipital & temporo-sphenoidal lobes, and the central lobe or Island of Reil. These lobes are seen most extensively on the iipper or convex surface of the hemispheres. UPPER OR CONVEX SURFACE OF THE CEREBRUM : -Presents: FOUR PRINCIPAL FISSURES — Which partly separate the five lobes ASCENDma & HORIZONTAL LIMBS OF THE FISSURE OF SYLVIUS — The former ascends in front of the central lobe and amongst the frontal convolutions.*- The latter passes backwards behind the central lobe, and separates the temporo-sphenoidal lobe from the frontal & parietal lobes. - FISSURE OF ROLANDO — Begins near the middle of the longitudinal fissure ' and passes downwards & forwards to near the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, separating the frontal & parietal lobes. EXTERNAL PARIETO-OCOIPITAL FISSURE — Separates the parietal and occipital lobes above. - Is very variable in extent, and is sometimes scarcely recognisable except by its being continuous with the internal parieto-occipital fissure, or perpendicular fissure of the inner surface of the hemispheres. OUTER SURFACE OP THE FIVE LOBES: Frontal Lobe -Pi'esents: Ascending Frontal Convolution - Forms the anterior boundary of the fissure of Rolando, and is continuous round the lower end of that fissure with the ascending parietal convolution. It is joined in front to the Superior, Middle & Inferior Transverse Frontal Convolutions, - Which pass forwards one above the other to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere; Parietal Lobe - Presents : Ascending Parietal Convolution - Forms the posterior boundary of the fissure Rolando, and is continuous below round the lower end of that fissure, with the ascending frontal convolution. - Behind this convolution ai'e three complex and variable convolutions termed the parietal lobule, the supra- marginal convolution & the angular gyrus. Parietal Lobule-Is situated on the side of the longitudinal fissure between the parieto-occipital' fissure, & the fissure of Rolando, and, is contin- uous in front with the upper part of the ascending parietal convolution, and joined behind to the superior occipital by the first annectant con- volution. Supra-marginal Convolution - Is situated below and in front of the preceding and in front of the angular gyrus. It is separated from the ascending parietal convolution by the intra-parietal fissure, and is connected behind with the angular gyrus. Angular Gyrus - Is situated behind the preceding, below and behind the par- ietal lobule. It blends below with the superior & middle temporo-sphe- noidal convolutions, and is connected behind with the middle occipital by the second annectant convolution. Temporo-Sphenoidal Lobe - Presents three well marked antero-posterior con. volutions, which are superposed to each other. Sup. Temporo-Sphenoidal Convolution - Lies between the horizontal limb Ox the fissure of Sylvius and the parallel fissure, and is continuous behind with the angular gyrus. Middle Temporo-sphenoidal Convolution - Is separated from the lower one by the inferior temporo-sphenoidal fissure, and is continuous posteriorly with the angular gyrus and connected by the third annectant with the middle occipital convolution. Inf. Temporo-sphenoidal Convolution-Is partly seen on the under surface of the cerebrum, and is connected behind to the third occipital by the fourth annectant convolution. Occipital Lobe — Presents three rather badly defined convolutions, which are superposed to each other, and are more or less antero-posterior. Sup. Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the parietal lobule by the first annectant convolution. Middle Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the angular gyrus & to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the second and third annec- tant convolutions. Inp. Occipital Convolution - Is connected to the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the fourth annectant convolution. Central Lobe or Island of Rail - is deeply situated between the frontal & temporo-sphenoidal lobes at the bottom of the outer part of the fissure of Sylvius. It presents five or six convolutions, which are nearly straight and mainly directed upwards and outwards, and of which (he posterior ones are the largest. *AikI is sometimes called the precentral sulcus.268 UNDEB SURFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents from before backwards IN THE MEDIAN LINE: Anterior part of the Longitudinal Fissure - Bounded beWnd by the anterior extremity or genu of the corpus callosum. Anterior Extremity or Genu of the Corpus Callosum - Curves down. wards and backwards. Its narrowing reflected portion, beak or rostrum, is connected with the lamina cinerea, and gives ofi'two white bundles, the peduncles, which cross the anterior perfora'ced space to the eatrance of the fissure of Sylvius. Lamina Cinerea - tlii^ layer of grey substance stretching, above the optic com. missure, with which it is connected, from the rostrum of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum, and continuous laterally with the grey matter of the anterior perforated space. Optic Commissure or Chiasma with the Optic Tracts - Vide Optic Nerve. , Interpeduncular Space - Lozenge-shaped, comprised between the crura cerebri and the optic tracts, and containing from before backwards: Tuber Cinereum with the Infundibulum & Pituitary Body - The former of which is a conical eminence of the grey matter of the floor of the 3rd ventricle connected by a hollow infundibuliform process, the infundi- bulum, with the latter, which latter is a small reddish grey vascular mass divided into an anterior & a posterior lobe, and the nature of which, especially in its anterior lobe, is very similar according to Dr. Sharpey, to that of the ductless or vascular glands. It is propoi-tiona- tely larger in the foetus, and is then hollow, its cavity being continuous with that of the 3rd ventricle. Corpora Albicantia - Two small round white bodies formed by the twisting upon themselves of the anterior crura of the fornix before they pass up to the optic thalami. Posterior Perforated Space - Formed by a layer of grey substance, which constitutes the posterior part of the floor of the 3rd ventricle and is continuous around the corpora albicantia with the base of the tuber cinereum. It is perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of blood vessels to the optic thalami. Crura Cerebri - Vide Mesocephalon. LATERALLY: Under Surface of the Frontal Lobe ~ Presenting internally the lower end of the marginal convolution, on the outer side of which is the olfactory sulcus containing the olfactory nerve and bulb. Anterior Perforated Space -Formed by a layer of grey substance correspon- ding to the unaer surface of the corpus striatum, and perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of vessels to that body. It is bounded in front by the posterior and inner part of the frontal lobe and the roots of the olfactory nerve, and behind & to the inner side by the optic tract & commissure, and is continued externally into the Fissure of Sylvius - Which separates the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes ana divides on the outer surface of the cerebrum into two branches or limbs, which enclose the central lobe or Island of Eeil. Under Surface of the Temporo-sphenoidal Lobe. Behind these parts appear when the medulla oblongata & cerebellum are removed, in the median line • Middle part of the Transverse Fissure - Comprised between the corpora quadrigemina and the Posterior Extremity or Splenium of the Corpus Callosum - Behind which ie the Posterior Part of the Longitudinal Fissure - And laterally the Under Surface of the Occipital lobe.269 INNER SURFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents for examination: Marginal Convolution & Convolution of the Corpus Callosum separated from each other by the Calloso-marginal Fissure; Quadrate dr' Occipital Lobules separated from each other by the Inte7-nal Parieto-occipital Fissure, and of which the latter is separated by the Calcarine Fissure from the internal temporo-aphenoidal convolutions; Internal Temporo-sphenoidal Convolutions, three in number, superior (dentate convolution), middle (gyrus uncinatus) & inferior, and separated from the foregoing by the above-mentioned calcarine fissure and from each other by the Dentate 6^ Collateral Fissures. Marginal Convolution - Forms the lateral boundary of the anterior half of the longitudinal fissure. Beginning at the anterior perforated space, it first passes forwards on the inner side of the olfactory sulcus as far as the apex of the frontal lobe, and then curves upwards & backwards along the upper margin of the hemisphere to a little behind the fissure of Eolando. Convolution of the Corpus Callosum or Gyrus Fornicatus - Begins anteriorly with the foregoing, and then winds backwards along the convex surface of the corpus callosum from which it is separated by the so-called ventricle. Posteriorly it joins above with the quadrate lobule, and then, becoming slightly constricted, is reflected downwards & forwards round the splenium and continued into the gyrus uncinatus. CalloSO-Marginal Fissure - Separates the two foregoing convolutions along their whole length, and then ascends to the upper margin of the hemisphere separating the marginal convolution from the quadrate lobule. Quadrate Lobule - Quadrilateral. Bounded above, in front, & behind respectively by the margin of the hemisphere, and by the calloso-marginal & internal parieto-occipital fissures. Blends inferiorly with the gyrus fornicatus. Occipital Lobule - Triangular. Bounded behind, in front, & below respectively by the inner margin of the hemisphere and by the internal parieto-occipital & calcarine fissures. Internal Parieto-Occipital Fissure - Separates the two foi-egoing lobules, it is continuous superiorly with the external parieto-occipital fissure; inferiorly it joins with the calcarine fissure. Calcarine Fissure - Extends horizontally forwards from the apex of the occipital lobe to the point of junction of the gyrus fornicatus with the gyrus uncinatus. It separates the occipital lobule from the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution, and joins anteriorly with the internal parieto-occipital fissure. Superior Temporo-Sphenoidal or Dentate Convolution - is but a narrow band of grey matter which lies internally to the fascia dentata. It blends anteriorly with the uncus. Dentate Fissure ,-^o^^^^PO'^^s ^'PPOC^^P'^s major, and separates the dentate convolution from the gyrus uncinatus. Middle Temporo-Sphenoidal Convolution or Gyrus Uncinatus - Comprised between the calcarine & collateral fissures, and extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It is slightly constricted towards its middle & enlarged in front & behind; anteriorly it presents a small hooked prolongation, the uncus, which curves upwards & backwards, and joins with the dentate convolu- tion & with the corpus fimbriatum. Collateral Fissure - Extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, separating the gyrus uncinatus from the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolU'. tion. It corresponds towards its middle to the eminentia collateralia. Inferior Temporo-Sphenoidal Conyplution - Appears both on the inner & under surface* of the hemispheres, and is joined behind by the fourth annectant to the inferiar occipital conrolutioE.270 INTERNAL STRUCTURE of the HEMISPHERES. PARTS SEEN BEFORE OPENING THE VENTRICLES : ( Centrum Ovale Minus - With the puncta vasculosa & the convoluted margin of the divided grey matter. Ventricle of tlie Corpus CalloSUm - Comprised between the corpus call ssum &' the gyrus fori licatus. Centrum Ovale MajuS - into which the fibres of the corpus callosum are continued on eith jr side. Corpus Callosum - Thick stratum of transverse & radiating white fibres which con. nect the two hemispheres j arched from before backwards, thickest & broadest behind, thinnest towards centre. It presents: Upper Sueface - Convex from before backwards, striated transversely, marked by a median depressed raphe which is bounded by two slightly elevated bands termed the nerves of Lancisi. More externally, beneath the gyrus fornicatus, are other similar bands, the strice longitudinales laterales. Under Surface - Blended behind with the fornix. In front, where it forms the roof of the lateral ventricles, it ia connected with the fornix by the septum Anterior Extremity or Genu - Curves downwards & backwards, presenting a narrowing reflected portion, the beak or rostrum. This latter is connected ! with the lamina cinerea, and gives off two small white bauds or peduncles, which cross the anterior perforated space to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius. Posterior Extremity or Splenium - Thick & rounded. Forms upper boundary ,. ; , of middle portion of transverse fissare, and is joined in front,with the fornix.271 THE LATERAL VENTRICLES Consist of a central cavity or body, and three prolongations or cornua. Central Cavity or Body - Presents • ^ Eoop - Formed by under surface of corpus callosum. Inner Wall - Formed by septum lucidum, whicli contains the fifth ventricle. •Floor - Formed from before backwards by the corpus striatu?7t, imtia seniicircuiaris, thalamus opticus^ choroid plexus^ corpus fimbi'iatum & fornix. Ant. Cornu - Passes downwards & outwards round anterior extremity of corpus striatum. Post. Cornu or Digital Cavity - Curves backwards, downwards, outwards, and then backwards, downwards & inwards in substance of occipital lobe. On inner part of its floor is the hippocampus minor, a longitudinal eminence which corresponds to calcarine fissure of Huxley. Middle or Descending Cornu - Curves backwards, outwards & downwards round optic thalamus, and then forwards & inwards to near anterior extremity of tempcro- sphenoidal lobe. Its floor presents the hippocampus major, pes hippocampi^ pes accessorius, corpus Jimbriaium, choroid plexus^ fascia dentata & transverse fissure*"272 PARTS SEEN on FLOOR of LATERAL VENTRICLE Are from before backwiardi . CORPUS STRIATUM — Large pear-shaped mass of grey matter embedded externally in white substance of frontal lobe. Presents: Ant. Extremity - Broad j projects into anterior part of body of lateral ventricle, forming part of its floor, and into anterior cornii of the same cavity. Post. Extremity - Narrow; passes backwards and outwards on outer side of optic thalamus. The corpus striatum is divided into two portions, the intra- & extra-ventricular, by a layer or stratum of ascending & diverging white fibres which form the peden or the corona radiata of Reil. Part of these fibres are derived from the inferior or fas- ciculated portion, and also from the upper part or tegmentum, of the crus cerebri; part of them originate in the corpus striatum. T^NIA SEMICIROULARIS —Whitish semi-transparent band of fibres, which descends an- teriorly in connection with anterior crus of fornix, and is lost posteriorly in descending cornu of lateral ventricle; it partly conceals the vena corporis striati. OPTIC THALAMUS — Large ovoid mass of grey matter white superficially, similar to corpus striatum, behind & internally to which it is situated, and similarly traversed by numerous ascending & diverging white fibres, which are partly derived from upper portion of eras cerebri, olivary fasciculus, fasciculus teres, processus e cerebello ad testes & corpoi-a quadri- gemina, and which partly originate in the thalamus. Presents: Ant. Extremity - Narrow, situated behind anterior crus of fornix; forms posterior boundary of foramen of Monro. Post. Extremity - Broad & rounded. Projects into descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and is continuous on inner side with tubercula quadrigemina. Upper Surface - Anteriorly it forms part of floor of lateral ventricle, and presents a slight elevation, the anterior tubercle; posteriorly it is covered by fornix, which rests upon it. Under Surface - Continuous with posterior rounded extremity. In its posterior part it forma roof of descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and presents two small eminences, the corpora genkulata internum et extermtm, which are connected respectively with inner & outer bands of origin of optic tract. In its anterior part it rests upon the crus cerebri, and is penetrated by the radiating fibres above mentioned. Inner Surface - Forms lateral boundary of 3rd ventricle. Is joined to its fellow by the middle, soft, or grey commissure, and presents inferiorly the grey matter of the interior of the thalamus uncovered by the white. The superior peduncle of the pineal gland sepa- rates this surface from the upper. Outer Surface - Continuous anteriorly with posterior narrow extremity of corpus striatum, and embedded posteriorly in white substance of temporo-sphenoidal lobe. CHOROID PLEXUS — The thick, convoluted & fringe-like margin of the velum interpositum. - Vide Velum interpositum. CORPUS FIMBRIATUM or TAENIA HIPPOCAMPI — The thin lateral margin of the posterior crus of the fornix. FORNIX — Triangular longitudinal lamella of white matter broad behind, narrow in front, situated below corpus callosum with which it is joined behind, and to which it is connected in front by septum lucidum; forms roof of third & posterior part of floor of both lateral ventricles. Presents: Body - Presents: .Swr/a^r^" - Joined behind with corpus callosum, and connected in front to the same by septum lucidum; forms posterior part of floor of both lateral ventricles. Under Surface - Marked posteriorly by a few transverse & anteriorly converging fibres, which form the lyra. Forms centrally the roof of 3rd ventricle; rests laterally upon optic thalami. Is covered by velum interpositum. Anterior Crura - Descend behind anterior white commissure & in front of optic thalamus, forming anterior boundary of foramen of Monro, and perforate grey substance of floor of 3rd ventricle to corpora albicantia, in which they twist upon themselves; they then ascend to corresponding optic thalamus. Posterior Crura - Diverge into the descending cornua of lateral ventricles, becoming continuous ■y^'ith inner border of hippocampus major. Their thin lateral margin is the corpus fim- briatum or tcenia hippocampi.273 PARTS SEEN in DESCENDING CORNU of LATERAL VENTRICLE, HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR or CORNU AMMONIS - Is a white eminence which curves downward?, forwards, & inwards along floor of descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and which corresponds to the dentate fissure & to the reflected portion of the convolution of the corpus callosum or gyrus" fornicatus, which portion has been des- cribed of late years as the anterior part of the gyrtis uncinatus. It enlarges anteriorly, and ends in the F£jS hippocampi - The anterior rounded extremity of the hippocampus major; it more or less resembles the paw of an animal, being marked along its margin by slight notches or depressions separating rounded intervening elevations. PES ACCESSORIUS or EMINENTIA COLLATERALIS - A small rounded eminence, simlar to the preceding, situated between the two hippocampi at junction of middle & posterior cornua. It corresponds to the collateral fissure. CORPUS FIMBRIATUM or TAENIA HIPPOCAMPI - The prolongation of the thin lateral margin of the posterior crus of the fornix j is continuous with inner border of hippocampus major. CHOROID PLEXUS - Vide next Tablet. FASCIA DENT AT A - The grey serrated border of the dentate convolution, which is separated from the gyrus uncinatus by the dentate fissure of Huxley. It lies beneath the corpus fimbriatum & the margin of the cLoroid plexus. TRANSVERSE FISSURE - Vide next Tablet. 33274 TRANSVERSE FISSURE of the BRAIN & INTRA- CEREBRAL PORTION of PIA MATER TRANSVERSE FISSURE OP THE BRAIN Is of a horse-shoe shape, and about 3 inches wide. Its central part is horizontal and comprised between the tabercula quadrigemina & the posterior extremity or spleninm of the corpus callosum. Its lateral portions curve downwards & forwards, and are comprised between the optic thalami & crura cerebri below & in front and the hippocampi majores & corpora fimbriata above & behind. This fissure transmits the pia mater into the interior of the brain. INTEA-CEREBRAL PORTION OF THE PIA MATER Forms on the one hand the velum interpositum & the choroid plexuses of the lateral & the 3rd ventricles, and, on the other, the choroid plexuses of the 4th ventricle. Veluni Interposituin - is a triangular fold of pia mater which is reflected into the interior of the brain through the transverse fissure. It presents : Central Portion - Invests pineal gland, and covers under surface of fornix. From the under surface of this central portion two small vascular fringes, the choroid plexuses of the 3rd ventricle, hang down into the latter cavity. Lateral Margins - Spread out on either side beneath the corresponding margin of the fornix & its continuation, the corpus fimbriatum, into the body & des- cending cornu of the corresponding lateral ventricle, resting, as do the margins of the fornix, upon the optic thalami. These lateral margins are thick, convoluted & fringe-like; they constitute the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles further described below. Posterior Margin or Base - Is turned backwards towards the transverse fissure. Ifc is continuous with the general pia mater; it receives the anterior & posterior choroid arteries and emits the venae Galeni. Anterior Bifid Extremity - Continuous through the foramina of Monro Avith the anterior pointed extremities of the lateral margins above described or choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. Choroid Plexuses of the Lateral Ventricles - Are nothing more than the thick, convoluted & fringe-like margins of the velum interpositum. When they are described separately, that is to say irrespectively of the velum interpositum of which they are a portion, they may be said to penetrate into the descend- ing cornua of the lateral ventricle through the lateral portions of the transverse fissure. Hence they ascend into the body of the lateral ventri- cle along the side of the corpus fimbriatum, winding round the posterior extremity of the optic thalamus. Then continuing along the side of the fornix, they taper to a point, and passing through the corresponding fora- men of Monro, they join with each other and with the anterior bifurcated extremity of the central & thinner portion of the velum interpositum. Choroid Plexuses of the 3rd Ventricle - Are two small vascular fringes which hang down from the under surface of the central portion of the velum interpositum into the cavity of the 3rd ventricle; they diverge slightly behind. Choroid Plexuses of the 4th Ventricle - Are two similar fringes which project into the 4th ventricle from the layer of pia mater which closes that ventri- cle inferiorly; they pass upwards & outwards from near the point of the infierior vermiform process to the outer margin of the restiform body.275 THE THIRD VENTRICLE Is a narrow median fissure comprised between the optic thalami, and extending to the base of the brain. It presents : Roof - Formed by under surface of fornix and by velum interpositum. Floor - Corresponds to interpeduncular space on under surface of cerebrum, and is formed from before backwards by the lamina cinerea, tuber cinereum & infundibulum, corpora albicantia and locus perforatus posticus. It is oblique downwards & forwards, and is covered by a thick layer of grey matter. It presents in the foetus the opening of the iter ad infundibulum. Lateral Walls - -Formed by inner surface of optic thalami, which surface is bounded above by superior peduncles of pineal gland, and is covered below by part of the grey matter of the third ventricle prolonged upwards from its floor. - The lateral walls are joined together by the middle or soft commissure, a transverse band of grey matter continuous with the remainder of the grey matter of the 3rd ventricle. Ant. Extremity - Formed by anterior crura of fornix. In front of these is the anterior commissure, a transverse band of white fibres, which perforates laterally the corpora striata & spreads out into the substance of both hemispheres. - Between the crura & the optic thalami are the foramina of Monro, through which the lateral & 3rd ventricles communicate, and the anterior extremities of the velum interpositum pass from the 3rd into the lateral ventricles to form the choroid plexuses of the latter. Post, Extremity - Formed by posterior commissure, a transverse band of white fibres con- necting posteriorly the optic thalami. Below this is the opening of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, and above ai^e the tuberoula quadrigemina & the pineal gland. For parts above mentioned see foregoing Tablets.276 THE CEREBELLUM. Oblong from side to side & flattened from above downwards. , Presents two surfaces & a cir- cumference, and consists of two lateral hemispheres connected by a median lobe, the yermiform process, which latter is divided into two parts, the superior & the inferior. UPPER SURFACE — Flattened on either side, slightly elevated in the centre. Presents; Superior Vermiform Process - Presents from before backwards three slight elevations, the LoBULUS Centralis, Monticulus Cerebelli, & Commissuea Simplex, which latter joins with the commissura brevis of the inferior vermiform process. Lateral Hemispheres - Divided by a deep fissure into Anterior or Square Lobe, the anterior, inner & broader portion, and the Posterior or Semilunar Lobe, the narrow, posterior or marginal portion. UNDER SURFACE — Rounded & elevated laterally and depressed in the centre. Presents: Inferior Vermiform Process - Lies in a deep depression, the valley or vallecula com- prised between the two hemispheres, and presents from behind forwards the Commissura Brevis, Pyramid & Uvula, the former of which joins with the com. missura simplex of the superior vermiform process. The uvula is situated between the two tonsils^ with which it is connected by a grey commissure the furrowed band. Its rounded apex, the nodule or laminated tubercle of Malacarne projects into the 4th ventricle, and is con- nected with the flocculi by a thin valvular fold of white substance, the posterior medullary velum or commissura ad flocculum, which fold is partly covered in & concealed by the tonsils. Lateral Hemispheres - Present five lobes: Flocculus, Sub.Peduncular Lobe, or Pneumogastric Lobule - Prominent tuft subdivided into several small laminae and situated below & behind the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, behind the roots of the pneumogastric nerve. Amygdala or Tonsil - Rather larger than foregoing and similarly subdivided; projects into the valley on either side of the uvula, to which it is connected by the furrowed band. Digastric Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the anterior part of the square lobe of the upper surface. Slender Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the posterior part of the foregoisg square lobe. Posterior Inferior Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the posterior or semilu- nar lobe. CIRCUMFERENCE — Deeply notched in front & behind by the iNcisuRiE Cerebelli Anterior & Posterior, - Of which the former embraces the tubercula quadrigemina & the superior peduncles, while the latter receives the falx cerebelli; - also divided into upper & lower lips by the Great Horizontal Fissure - Which extends uninterruptedly from one middle peduncle to the other. The other fissures are more or less parallel to the foregoing, and describe more or less concentric curves concave forwards & inwards; some fissures however are more or less oblique, and coalesce with the others so as not to extend over the whole breadth of the hemispheres. The largest fissures separate the lobes above described, the smaller ones demarcate the laminae or folia, which latter cover the surface of the cerebellum and project also into the bottom of the larger fissures.277 THE PEDUNCLES of the CEREBELLUM. Superior, or Processus e Cerebello ad Testes - Arises in the lamm^ of the inferior vermiform process and also in the intei'ior of the corpus dentatura, passes upwards & inwards on either side of the middle line, being joined to its fellow by the valve of Yieussens, and ascends beneath the tubercula quadrigemina to the crura cerebri & optic thalarai, partly decussating in the middle line. Middle, Processus e Cerebello ad Pontem or Crus Cerebelli - The great transverse commissure of the cerebellum. Connects the laminee of the lateral parts of one hemisphere to the corresponding laminae of the opposite side, and forms the pons Varolii & the deep transverse fibres of the mesocephalon. Inferior, or Processus e Cerebello ad Medullam - If traced from below upwards, it may be said to proceed from all three columns of the cord, ?.<?., from the postero-external bundles of the anterior & middle columns, & from the fasciculus cuneatus or external bundle of the posterior column, the latter bundle being much the largest of the three. It ends in the laminse of the middle part of the cerebellum, especially in those of the upper surface.278 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The upper enlarged part of spinal cord. Extends from lower border of Pons Varolii, a&ove, to point of deoussatioa of anterior pyramids- below, which point corresponds pretty nearly to uppor border of a^Jas. Flattened from above downwards and forwards, and presents: Anteko-inferiok Aspect - Rests upon basilar groove. PosTEEO-suPERiOR AsPECT - Forms part superiorly of floor of 4th ventricle, and is con- tinuous inferiorly with posterior surface of cord. Divided, as is the cord, into two lateral halves, by Antero-Median Fissure - Continuous below with that of cord, being partly interrupted, however, by decussation of anterior pyramids. Terminates above, just below the pons, in a small recess, the foramen coecum. Postero-Medtan Fissure - Continued above into ventricle of Arantius & postero- median fissure on floor of 4th ventricle, and below into postero-median fissure of cord. SURFACE OP THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Each half presents from before backwards between the two median fissures j Anterior PyranOLid - Pyramidal.shaped bundle of white fibres, the apparent pro. longation of anterior column of cord ; narrow below, enlarged and rounded oflF above, constricted just below the pons. Gives origin in its upper part to 6th. cranial nerve. Olivary Body - Oval prominent mass broader above than below, shorter than, but about as broad as, the pyramid. - It is separated from the pyramid by a narrow » groove, which gives origin to 9th or hypo-glossal nerve, and from the lower part of which numerous arciform fibres are seen to proceed. These wind upwards and outwards round lower end of olivary body, sometimes crossing its surface. A few arciform fibres emerge from the anterior median fissure, and cross anterior aspect of pyramid (Sappey, Hirschield). Lateral Tract - is continuous with lateral column of cord. It is broad below, where it includes all that part of the medulla comprised between anterior pyramid and restiform body ; above it is pushed backwards, and is narrowed, by the pro- jection of the olivary body. It is separated from restiform body by a slight groove situated in a line with posterior lateral fissure of cord, and gives origin from above downwards to the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric & spinal accessory nerves. Restiform Body or Fasciculus Cuneatus - is the outer & larger, while the Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - Is the inner & smaller portion of a wide & thick bundle of white fibres continuous below with posterior column of cord, which bundle diverges from its fellow superiorly, and thus both exposes grey matter of fioor of 4th ventricle and forms lower part of lateral boundary of that cavity. This wide & thick bundle used lo be called, and ia still sometimes called ihe restiform body. - From its inner edge there projects inwards a thin lamina of white matter termed the ligula, which may be considered , as forming part of roof of 4th ventricle. Opposite apex of calamus scriptorius the posterior pyramid presents an enlargement, the processus clavatiis. In front of the processus cuneatus, behind & a little below olivary body & in a line with postero-lateral fissure of cord, is a small greyish eminence, the g7-ey tubercle of Rolando, which is formed by the projection of the substantia gelatinosa. Grey Matter of Floor of 4th Ventricle - Vide 4th ^eatrido.THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. Rhomboidal cavity bounded by the medulla oblongata & mesocepbalon below & in front and the cerebellum above & behind, and closed in inferiorly by the layer of pia matter ex- tending between these parts. Presents: FLOOR — Lozenge-shaped, oblique downwards & backwards, covered by a stratum of grey matter from which arise the 6fch, 7th, 8fch, & 9th nerves * (Vide structure of medulla oblongata, 2nd Tablet) J bounded on either side below by the posterior pyramids & restiform bodies, and above by the processus e cerebello ad testes. Presents the following parts, which give rise to the appearance termed the calamus scriptorius' Postero-Median Fissure - Continued above into the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, below into the ventricle of Arantius or shoi't upper expanded part of the central canal and into the postero-median fissure of the cord. LiNEiE Transvers^e - A few white fibi^es very variable in number sometimes scarcely recognisable, which emerge from the lower part of the postero-median fis- sure, cross the eminentise teretes, and join, some of them the crus cere- belli, others the roots of the auditory nerve j a few sometimes ascend to the locus coeruleus. Eminenti^ Teretes - Two spindle-shaped elevations, greyish & slightly marked below, whiter & more prominent above, due to the fasciculi teretes, as they ascend beneath the grey matter on either side of the postero-median fissure. - On either side of these eminences is a GrROOvE, or rather, in well marked bodies, two small ross?5, which lie, the posterior, inferior & narrowest one, near the lower extremity of the ventricle, and tho anterior, superior & broadest one, opposite the crus cerebelli. The latter foFsa leads upwards to the Locus CoiRULEUS - A bluish spot due to an accumulation beneath the surface, of dark vesicular matter termed the substantia ferruginea. From this spot the Tinea Violacba, - A bluish streak, the continuation upwards of the locus cseruleus, ascends on the outer side of the eminentia teres to the opening of the aque- duct of Sylvius. ROOF — Formed above by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieus- sens, below by the tonsils, the inferior vermiform process with the uvula, the nodule or laminated tubei'cle of Malacarne, & by the posterior medullary velum or commissura ad flocculum. Still lower down is the ligula. LATERAL BOUNDARIES — Formed by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum above, and by the diverging restiform bodies & posterior pyramids below. UPPER EXTREMITY — Presents the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. LOWER EXTREMITY — Usually presents an opening in the layer of pia mater which bounds the ventricle inferiorly, through which opening the ventricular cavities of the brain communicate with the subarachdoidean space of the brain & cord. Choroid Plexuses of 4th Ventricle - "Vide intra-cerebral portion of the pia mater.280 THE MESOCEPHALON Is the connecting link between the cerebrum, cerebellum & medulla oblongata. It consists of the following parts: - Pons Varolii or Tuber Annulare with the superficial & deep transverse fibres of the Middle Peduncles of the Cerebellum; Crura Cerebri divided into under or fasciculated portion and upper part or tegmentum ; Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebellum, and Supei'ior Peduncles with the Valve of Vieussens; Tubercula Quadrigemina & Pineal Gland. Pons Varolii or Tuber Annulare - Broad transverse band of white fibres which arch like a bridge from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other, forming laterally the middle peduncles of the cerebellum. Presents : - Under Surface - Marked by a median shallow groove for basilar artery. Gives off laterally the two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, of the 5th pair of cranial nerves. Upper Border - The most prominent & the most convex, from beneath which the crura cerebri are seen to emerge. Lower Border - Less prominent & less convex, into which the anterior pyramids, olivary fasciculi & lateral tracts of the medulla are seen to penetrate, and from the anterior aspect of which the 6fch cranial nerves are sometimes given off. - Laterally the pons Varolii is continued into the two Middle Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Crura Cerebelli - Which form its two lateral portions. Crura Cerebri - Two thick cylindrical or slightly flattened bundles of white fibres about | of au inch long & rather wider in front than behind, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons and pass forwards & outwards to the corpora striata & optic thalami. They are crossed externally by the 4th nerve & inferiorly by the optic tract, the anterior border of which latter is slightly adherent to them. Their inner border bounds posteriorly the interpeduncular space, and gives origin to the 3rd cranial nerve. They are divided into an under or fasciculated portion & an upper portion or tegmentum, between which two portions is a small mass of grey matter, the locus niger. Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad Medullam - Two thick bundles of white fibres which descend from the inner & under part of the cerebellum to the back of the medulla, where they join the processus cuneati. They form the lower part of the lateral boundary of the 4th ventricle. Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad Testes - Two thick bundles of white fibres which ascend from the upper & inner part of the cere- bellum to the testes, forming part of the roof & of the lateral boundary of the 4th ven- tricle. They are connected together by the Valve of Vieussens - Thin transparent lamina of white matter narrow in front, where it presents a slight median ridge, the frenulum, and, on either side of this, the roots of the 4th nerve, broader behind, where it is continued into the under surface of the superior vermiform process and is crossed by a few transverse bands of grey matter prolonged upwards from the cerebellum. It forms the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius & a part of the roof of the 4th ventricle. Tubercula Quadrigemina-Four small rounded eminences separated by a crucial depression, and situated below the posterior extremity or splenium of the corpus callosuni, above & behind the posterior commissure & the 3rd ventricle, above & in front of the super- ior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieussens. Anterior or Nates - Are larger, darker, slightly oblong from before backwards,and connected with the optic thalami & the commencement of the optic tracts by two broad white bands, the brachia anteriora. Posterior or Testes - Are smaller, lighter in colour, more exactly rounded, and connected with the optic thalami & the commencement of the optic tracts by two narrower bands, the brachia posteriora. Pineal Gland or Conarium - Small conical reddish-grey body situated between the nates, retained in position by a fold of pia mater derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, and connected with the remainder of the cerebrum by means of a few transverse fibres belonging to the posterior commissure, and also by means of it« Peduncles - Two on each side: Anterior or Superior - Run forwards over upper & inner part of optic thalami to anterior crura of fornix, with which they unite. Posterior or Inferior - Descend vertically upon inner surface of optic thalami. The pineal gland consists of grey matter with a few white fibres, and is very vascular. In its interior are one or two small cavities, which sometimes com- municate with the 3rd ventricle, and which contain a transparent viscid fiuid & a small amount of sabulous matter termed the acervulus cerebri-281 THE SPINAL CORD Extends from point of decussation of anterior pyramids (which point corresponds pretty nearly to the upper border of the atlas) to lower border of body of first lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a slender filament, the filum terminale, which descends for a short distance into the ligamentum centrale. Is from 15 to 18 inches long & slightly flattened from before backwards. Presents two enlarge - ments, the cervical and the lumbar. The cervical, the larger, extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra, and is widest from side to side j the lumbar, the smaller, is situated opposite the last dorsal vertebra, and is widest from before backwards. Presents fissures and columns, FISSURES: Antero-Median-Wider than the posterior, and penetrates to about one third of the thickness of the cord, its depth increasing slightly infer, iorly. It contains a well-marked prolongation of the pia mater, and is bounded behind by the anterior or white commissure. Postero-Median - Narrower than the anterior. It penetrates to the very centre of the cord, is most marked above and below, and contains but a very delicate process of pia mater. It is bounded in front by the posterior or grey commissure. Antero-Lateral (So-called) - Consist simply of a linear series of fora. mina corresponding to the points of emergence of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. Postero-Lateral ^ Correspond to the line of attachment of the posterior roots, and lead down to the grey matter. Postero-Inteemediary (Hirschfeldt, Sappey) - Two delicate longitudinal furrows situated on either side of the postero-median fissure and most marked in the cervical region. COLUMNS - Are demarcated by the fissures, ana are termea Anterior, Lateral, Posterior and Postero-Median - The two formei being usually joined under the name of antero-lateral, and the postero- median being usually included in the posterior. Gives ofi" 31 oairs of nerves. 34282 STRUCTURE of the SPINAL CORD~3rd Tablet. Continuation Upwards of the White Fibres of the Columns into the Medulla Oblongata. Anterior Column-is thrust aside in the tnedulla oblongata by those antero-internal fibres of the lateral column, which, after decussating in the middle line, form the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. It then divides into three bandies as follows: Innermost Bundle - Joins externally the above mentioned antero-interaal fibres of the lateral tract, and forms the smaller & outermost part of the anterior pyramid of the same side. Middle Bundle - Surrounds the olivary nucleus, above which it fonns, with a few fibres arising from this nucleus, the olivary fasciculus or fillet. External or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the processus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Lateral Column - Divides into three bundles as follows: Antbro-Internal Bundle -Passes forwards & inwards between the anterior columns, thrusting these columns aside, and forms, afoei- decussating in the middle line, the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. Middle Bundle - Ascends with the fasciculus gracilis beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fasciculus teres. External or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the fasciculus cuneatus, and goes to form parfc-of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Posterior Column - Divides into two bandies as follows : Internal Bundle or Fasciculus Gracilis - The smaller. Ascends beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, and goes to form part of the fasci- culus teres. ExTBBNAL Bundle or, Fasciculus Cuneatus - The larger. Diverges from its fellow at the apex of the calamus scriptorius, and passes upwards & outwards to form the greater part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. N.—The reader is here reminded once for all tliat by the " continuation " of nerve-fibres referred to in this & other Tablets, the Author means, not the continuation of the individual tubular fibres (respecting the absolute origin & termination of which tubular fibres little is yet positively known), but the continuation of the several bundles of nerve-fibres, which continuation is marked by the general direction of the fibres.283 STRUCTURE of the MEDULLA OBLONGATA-lst Tablet. Presents for examination longitudinal, antero-posterior & transverse fibres, and grey matter. LONGITUDINAL FIBRES — Form five bundles continuous on the one hand with the columns of the cord, and on the other with the longitudinal fibres of the mesocephalon, i.e., three large ones, anterior pyramid^ lateral tract 6^ fasciculus cuneatus^ and two smaller ones, olivary fasciculus Of fillet, &= posterior pyramid or fasciculus gracilis. Their mode of Continuation with the Columns of the Cord - is as follows: - Anterior Ptkamid - With antero-internal bundle of lateral column of opposite side, and with innermost bundle of anterior column of same side. The former bundle forms the innermost decussating & by far greater portion of the anterior pyramid; the latter bundle forms that small outer portion of the ant. pyramid, the fibres of which do not decussate in the middle line. ' Lateral Tract - With lateral column of same side. Fasciculus Cuneatus - With external & greater part of posterior column, and with external or posterior bundles of anterior & lateral columns all of same side. Olivary Fasciculus OR Fillet - Partly with middle bundle of aiaterior column of same side; its other fibres are derived from the olivary nucleus. Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - With posterior column of same side. Their mode of Continuation with the Longitudinal Fibres of the Meso-cephalon - Is as follows : - Anterior Pyramid - Ascends through the mesocephalon to the inferior or fasciculated portion of the crus cerebri, from whence its fibres are prolonged to the corpora striata. N.—The cerebellar fibres & the fibres to the olivary body, which are said in some of our best standard works on Anatomy to be derived from the anterior pyramid, are derived not from the anterior pyramid itself, that is to say not from the pyramidal-shaped bundle, which, in the surface description of the cord, is called the "anterior pyramid," but from the middle & external bundles of the anterior column of the cord. (Vide continuation upwards of the white fibres of the columns of the cord into the medulla oblongata). Lateral Tract-Divides into three bundles as follows (or rather it is the anterior cohimn of the cord which thus divides, for the division here referred to takes place a little below the point of decussation of the pyramids, that is to say below the point which is usually taken as the boundary between the medulla & the cord) • - Antero-internal Bundle -VdiBma upwards & inwards, decussating with its fellow, and forms the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. Middle Bundle - Ascends with the fasciculus gracilis beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fasciculus teres. External or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the fasciculus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Fasciculus Cuneatus - Passes up to the cerebellum with the external or posterior bundles of the anterior & lateral columns of the cord, forming with them the inf. peduncle of the cerebellum. Olivary Fasciculus or Fillet - Divides into two bundles as follows : - Antero-internal Bundle ~ Ascends through the mesocephalon with the middle bundle of fibres of the lateral tract, and joins the upper part or tegmentum of the crus cerebri. Postero-exte7'nal Bundle - Passes upwards & outwards through the mesocephalon, issues from the transverse fibres of the pons externally to the crus cerebri, and finally ascends over the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to the tubercula quadrigemina, decussating with its fellow above the aqueduct of Sylvius. Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - Ascends with the middle bundle of the lateral column beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fascicu i lus teres, ANTERO-POSTERIOR FIBRES — Form a median septum most marked at the upper part of the medulla. They partly decussate with each other (Clarke). Some emerge from the antero. median fissure, or pass between the anterior pyramid & the olivary body and emerge below the roots of the 9th nerve; these two sets form the arciform fibres mentioned in the surface de- scription of the medulla. Others emerge from the postero-median fissure, and form the linese transversse of the floor of the 4th ventricle. TRANSVERSE FIBRES — The arciform fibres form a superficial set. A deep set join the olivary nuclei & the nuclei contained in the posterior pyramids & processus cuneati. GREY MATTER -284 ARTERIES of the BASE of the BRAIN. Are the anterior & middle cerebral branches of the internal carotid and the posterior cerebral of the basilar, which are joined together by the anterior & posterior communicating. Anterior Cerebral - Anterior & smaller of the branches of bifurcation of internal carotid opposite inner extremity of fissure of Sylvius. Forwards & inwards towards longitudinal fissure, being connected with each other by Anterior Communicating, - A small branch about two lines in length. Eound genu and along upper surface of corpus callosum, and join with posterior cere* bral. Give off small branches to anterior perforated space and to inner & under surfaces of frontal lobe. Middle Cerebral-The larger of the two terminal branches of internal carotid. Forwards & outwards along fissure of Sylvius, giving twigs to anterior perforated space, and divides into branches to pia mater of frontal, parietal & tempore- sphenoidal lobes, and to central lobe or Island of Reil. - Sometimes gives off anterior choroid. Posterior Communicating - Very variable in size. From back part of internal carotid just before its bifurcation. Backwards parallel to its fellow, and inosculates with posterior cerebral. Posterior Cerebral - Two; terminal branches of basilar. Forwards and outwards for a short distance giving numerous branches to posterioi perforated space, and join posterior communicating. Backwards & outwards on crura cerebri in front of 3rd nerve, and, curving slightly inwards, divide into numerous branches to inner, under, & outer surfaces of occipital lobe, GIRCLS OP WILLIS — is formed in front, laterally & behind respectively by: Anterior cerebral arteries joined by the anterior commimicating^ Trunks of internal carotids & posterior communicating^ Posterior ce^'ebral & basilar. Within the circle of Willis are comprised from before backwards the lamina cinerea, optic commissure, tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, corpora albicantia & posterior perforated space.285 APPENDIX. G ilRPUS & TARS US How to Distinguish Bones of the Carpus into Bight & Left. It is easy to recognise whetlier a bone of tlie carpus oeiongs to the right or to the left &: Jl when it is placed in position as follows: Scaiphoid. - Largest articular facet above j Eough transverse groove behind > Tubercle on outer side. Semilunai'- Convex articular facet above; Largest rough surface in front; Semilunar articular facet on outer side, Ouneiforni - Convex surface partly articular & partly non-articular, abovej * Mat surface partly articular partly non-articular in front; Small surface or angle on inner side. Pisiform- Articular facet behindj Non-articular part of same surface below, Concave surface on inner side. Trapezium - Saddle-shaped articular facet below j Ridge in front; Rough lateral surface on outer side. Trapezoid - Saddle-shaped articular facet below j Large rough surface behind j Its projecting part on inner side. Os Magnum ~ Head above j Large rough surface behind; Projecting part of the same (or tubercle of the base) on inner side. Os Unciform - Unciform process below & in front | Ita concavity to outer side.286 BONES of TARSUS-lst Row. THE ASTRAGALUS Supports the tibia, rests upon the os calois, articulates on either side with the malleoli & in front with scaphoid. Is irregularly cuboid, and presents six surfaces. Upper Surface - Presents: Trochlear Surface - Broadest in front, convex from before backwards, slight- ly concave from side to side; in front of which surface is the Upper Surface of the Neck - Eough for ligaments. Under Surface - Presents: Deep Groove - Directed forwards & outwards and broadest in front, for in- terosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; this groove separates Two AfiTicuLAR Facets - For os calcis; the posterior one, the largest, is con- cave ; the anterior one, the smallest, is convex, continuous with the anterior articular surface and sometimes divided into two parts, one for lesser process of os calcis, one for calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Inner Surface - Presents Triangular Articular Facet - Small, continuous with trochlear surface, for in- ternal malleolus; below this facet is a Rough Groove - For deep portion of internal lateral ligament of ankle-joint. Outer Surface - Presents: T&iANouLAR Articular Facet - Much larger, concave from above downwards, also continuous with trochlear surface j in front of which is a JDeep Depression - For anterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint. Anterior Surface - Forms the Head - Oval, oblique downwards & inwards, & convex for scaphoid, continuous inferiorly with anterior facet of under surface, and supported by a constricted part, the Neck. Posterior Surface - Very narrow, and represented merely by a slight Groove - Oblique downwards & inwards for tendon of flexor longus pollici* THE OS CALCIS Irregularly cuboid j presents six surfaces. Upper Surface - Presents from before backwards • Upper Surface of Greater Process - Presenting a rough depresssion for exten- sor brevis digitorum; Two Articular Surfaces - For astragalus, and an intervening deep groove oblique forwards & outwards, and broadest in front for interosseous calcaneo- astragaloid ligament. - The posterior & external facet is convex, the largest, and situated on the body of the bone. The anterior or inter- nal facet is concave, the smallest, and situated on the lesser process j it is sometimes divided into two. Rough Saddle-shaped Surface - Belonging to the portion of the bone which projects backwards to form the heel. Under Surface - Bough, convex from side to side, widest behind. Presents from behind forwards: Two Tttbei-cles - The internal, the largest, for abductor pollicis & flexor brevis digitorum; the external, the smallest, for abductor minimi digiti. Rough Surface - For outer head of flexor access. & long calcaneo-cuboid ligt. Tubercle Transverse Groove or short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. Inner Surface ~ Concave for passage of vessels, nerves, & flexor tendons. Gives attachment to inner head of flexor accessorius, and is sarmounted by the Lesser Process, or Sustentaculum Tali - Which articulates above with the astragalus, is grooved inferiorly for tendon of flexor longus pollicis, and gives attachment by its inner margin to a part of the superficial fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Tubercle - 'Sov middle fasciclus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint j and in front of the tubercle, Two Grooves - Separated by a slight ridge for tendons of peronei. Anterior Surface - Concavo-convex for articulation with cuboid; is surmounted ex- ternally by a rough prominent tubercle which is an important guide in Chopart's amputation. Posterior SurfaC© - Bough & broad below for insertion of tendo Achillis & plantaria jauscle, narrow & smooth above, where it is covered by • bnrsik287 BONES of TARSUS-2nd Row. THE SCAPHOID — Presents: Anterior Surface - Convex, broadest externally; presents three triangular facets for the caneiform. Posterior Surface - Concave, for head of astragalus, also broadest externally. Circumference - Eough, convex above, concave below. Presents below & inter- nally a tubercle, for tendon of tibialis porticus \ and sometimes externally a facet, for cuboid. THE CUBOID — Presents : Articular Surfaces - Three: Anterior - Presents two facets, inner, smaller, quadrilateral for 4th metatarsal, outer, larger, triangular for 5th metatarsal. Posterior - Quadrilateral, concavo-convex for os calcis. Internal - Presents towards middle & upper part a ' large anterior facet for external cuneiform; and sometimes behind this a ^ smaller posterior facet for scaphoid. - The remainder of this surface is rough for ligaments. Non-Articular Surfaces - Three: Superior - Rough, oblique downwards & outwards. Inferior - Presents from before backwards: deep groove oblique forwards & inwards, which transmits tendon of pero- neus longus, and is bounded behind by a prominent ridge for long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which ridge begins externally in a prominent tubercle presenting a small facet for a sesamoid bone; rough surface for short calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and part of the flexor brevis pollicis. Outer - A mere border notched by commencement of peroneal groove. THE CUNEIFORM BONES Three, wedge-shaped, & six sided. All three present COMMON CHARACTERS: Dorsal Surf. - Quadrilateral, and rough for ligaments. Looks obliquely in. wards in the internal cuneiform, in which bone it also presents a small groove or facet for tendon of tibialis anticus. Plantar Surf. — Rough rounded border in the two outermost. In the inner- most it is a broad rough surface marked behind by a tubercle for the tibialis posticus. Posterior Surf. - Triangular & concave from above downwards. They artio- ulate with the three facets on anterior surface of scaphoid, and lie in the same transverse line. AUTEEIOR Surf. - Triangular in the two outermost, kidney-shaped in the innermost; they articulate with the bases of the three innermost metatarsal bones. These surfaces present an indented outline; the middle cuneiform being shorter than the two others, its an- terior surface is depressed. Lateral Surf. - Articulate with each other, the cuboid, both sides of the base of the 2nd metatarsal bone & the inner side of the base of the 4th; the lateral surfaces of the 3rd cuneiform presenting each of them two facets, and the adjoining surfaces of the 1st & 2nd presenting a facet angular in shape & running along the superior & posterior borders. The inner surface of the internal cuneifox'm is a mere rounded border. DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERS BETWEEN THE THREE BONES. EiEST - Larg size, irregular form, anterior kidney-shaped surface, facet for tibialis anticus, tuberclo for tibialis posticus. Second - Small size, square-shape of dorsal surface, angular articular facet along the upper & back part of its inner surfaoa. Third - Intermediate size, two facets on both of its lateral surfaces. BETWEEN THE BONES OF THE TWO SIDES — Are evident in the case of the first & second cuneiform. To have the three points necessary tr place the third one in position all that is requisite is to remark that the aat. internal facet is rather larger than the ant. external.288 METATARSAL BONES (Distinctive Characters). FIRST METATARSAL BONE The shortest & mnch the thickest. Shaft - Yery tliick & strong. Tarsal Extremity - Presents a large semilunar facet for internal cnneiform, bnt has noi lateral articular facets. It is prolonged below & externally into a prominent! tubercle for tendon of peroneus longus. Digital Extremity - Large & broad. Presents inferiorly two grooved facets for sesamoid bs. SECOND METATARSAL BONE —The longest; received posteriorly into the recess Tarsal Extremity - Presents: cuneiform bones. Tarsal Facet - Triangular, for middle cuneiform. Lateral Facets - Three: - One internal for internal cuneiform; two external for ex- ternal cuneiform & 3rd metatarsal. These two latter facets are often divided into upper & lower halves by a rough horizontal groove for an interosseous ligt. THIRD METATARSAL BONE — A little shorter. Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Triangular, for external cuneiform. Lateral Facets - Two : - One internal & one external for 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bs.; the former facet is often divided into upper & lower halves by an interosseous groove. FOURTH METATARSAL BONE — Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Quadrilateral, for cuboid. Lateral Facets - Three : - One ext. for 5th metatarsal, two int. for 3rd metatarsal & ex- ternal cuneiform; the facet for the external cuneiform being sometimes absent. FIFTH METATARSAL BONE — The shortest but one. Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Triangular, cut obliquely forwards & inwards, for cuboid; Lnternal Lateral Facet - For 4th metatarsal; * Prominent External Tubercle - For peroneus brevis. N.B. —The foregoing characters supply the three points requisite to place the bones in' position, and therefore to distinguish between right bones and left bonesi METACARPAL BONES (Distinctive Cliaracters). METACARPAL B. OF THUMB - The shortest. Shaft - Thick & broad ; its palmar surface looks inwards. Carpal Extremity - Saddle-shaped for trapezium (convex from before backwards, concave from side to side) & broadest externally ; no lateral facets. Digital Extremity - Broader & less convex anteriorly than in the other metacar- pal bones; presents two small lateral facets for sesamoid bones. METACARPAL B. OF INDEX — The longest. Carpal Extremity - Larger than in the others, and presents posteriorly a pro- longation upwards & inwards towards os magnum. Has four articular surfaces, one saddle-shaped above for trapezoid, and three others for trapezium, os magnum & 3rd metacarpal bono. METACARPAL B. OF MIDDLE FINGER — The longest but one. Carpal Extremity ~ Presents a prolongation upwards & outwards behind os magnum, and has four articular facets, one for os magnum, one for 2ud metacarpal bone, and two for 4th. METACARPAL B. OF RING FINGER — Short. Carpal Extremity - Pretty regularly cuboid. Presents five facets for unciform, OS magnum, 3rd (two facets), & 5th metacarpal bones. METACARPAL B. OF LITTLE FINGER — The smallest & the shortest but one. Carpal Extremity - Has a prominent tubercle on inner side for extensor carpi ulnaris; carpal facet is saddle-shaped for unciform; only one lateral facet for 4th metacarpal bone. N.B.—The foregoing characters supply the three points requisite to place the bones in position, and therefore to distinguish between right bones and left bones.289 SINUSES of the DURA MATER. Venous canals fifteen in number, and more or less triangular in shape, the outer coat of which is formeo by the splitting of the dura mater, while their inner coat is a continuation of the inner or serous ooai.] of the veins. They are divided into: PosTERO.SuPEEiOR Group : - Superior Longifudinal, Inferior Longitudinal, Straight^ Lateral, Occipital, all converging towards the Torciilar Herophili. Antero-Inferior Group: - Cavernous^ Circular, Transverse, Superior Inferior Petrosal, all converging towards the sella turcica Superior Longitudinal Sinus - Commences at foramen coecura, through which it frequently commun- icates by a minute branch with veins of Schneiderian membrane of nose. Runs backwards in attach, ed margin of falx cerebri, grooving middle line of frontal, adjacont borders of parietals & saperior division of crucial ridge of occipital, and opens into torcular Herophili. Numerous fibrous bands the chordcB Willisii, cross inferior angle of its cavity, and the glandules Paccbionii project into its .' base. It receives the superficial veins of upper part of hemispheres, numerous veins from diploe «& dura mater, and, at posterior extremity of sagittal suture, the parietal veins from the pericranium. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus - Sometimes called a vein on account of its cylindrical form. Follows posterior part of free margin of falx cerebri, and opens into anterior extremity of straight sinus behind the venae Galeni. It receives several small veins from the falx, and accasionally a few from inner surface of hemispheres. Straight Sinus - Runs downwards & backwards in line of junction of falx cerebri with tentorium cere- belli, and opens into torcular Herophili. Receives venae Galeni, inferior longitudinal sinus, inferior median cerebral, & superior cerebellar veins. A few fibrous bands cross its superior angle. Occipital Sinuses - Usually two, small, contained in attached margin of falx cerebelli. Arise near pos- terior border of foramen magnum in several small veins which communicate with posterior longi- tudinal spinal veins. They pass backwards & upwards, and open separately or together into torcular Herophili. Lateral Sinuses - Two, large. Commence at torcular Herophili; pass outwards in posterior attached margin of tentorium cerebelli as far as base of petrous portion of temporal bone, grooving occipital & posterior inferior angles of parietals; carve (iownf7ards & inwards grooving mastoid portion of temporals and again the occipital at its lateral angles; and are continued into the internal jug-u- lar vein through posterior outer or larger part of foramen lacerum posterius. - They receive the inferior cerebral & inferior cerebellar veins & some veins from the diploe, they are connected to the cavernous sinus by the superior & inferior petrosal sinuses, and they communicate through the mastoid foramen with the mastoid & posterior condyloid veins of the pericranium. The right one is generally somewhat the larger of the two. Torcular Herophili - An irregular expansion of the postero-superior group of sinuses pretty nearly cor- responding in situation to the external occipital protuberance, and formed by the coalescence of the superior longitudinal, straight & occipital sinuses, which pour their blood into it, and of the lateral sinuses, which convey the blood from the torcular to the internal jugular veins. Cavernous Sinuses - Two lai-ge but short sinuses, extending on either side of sella turcica from sphe- noidal fissure to apex of petrous portion of temporal bone, and communicating with each other through circular & transverse sinuses, and with the lateral sinuses thi'ough the superior & inferior petrosal. Their cavity is intersected by numerous fibrous bands & small vessels; hence their name. Against their inner wall, separated from the blood by the lining membrane of the sinus, are the cavernous portion of the internal carotid artery, the 6th nerve, & the carotid & cavernous plexuses of the sympathetic; in their outer wall lie from above downwards & from within outward*? the 3rd, 4th, & ophthalmic nerves. They receive the ophthalmic & anterior inferior cerebral veius. Circular Sinus - Placed superficially in ring of dura mater which surrounds pituitary body. Receives small veins from this body, adjacent bone, & dura mater, and communicates on either side with the cavernous sinus. Its posterior half is generally larger than the anterior. Transverse Sinus - Small & short. Crosses fore part of basilar groove, connecting cavernous & inferior petrosal sinuses of one side to those of the other; is sometimes double. Superior Petrosal Sinus - Small, along upper border of petrous portion of temporal bone ia anterior attached margin of tentorium, connecting lateral & cavernous sinuses of same side. Receivet inferior cerebellar & inferior lateral cerebral veins. Inferior Petrosal Sinus - Somewhat larger than foregoing. Along groove in petro-occipital suture, connecting cavernous sinua to termination of the lateral in jugular foramen.290 TABLEAU of the CRANIAL NERVES. First or Olfactory - Arises by three roots: • Ext. or Long Root - From posterior border of fissure of Sylvius. Int. or Short Root - From posterior & ijtner part of jfrontal lobe. Middle or Grey Root - From carunatla mammillaris. - Presents olfactory process, olfactory bulb, terminal branches. SoCOnd or Optic - From anterior posterior quadrigeminal and internal ^ external geniculate bodies^ and optic thalamus. - Presents optic tract, optic commissure or chiasma, & optic nerve proper. Tllird or lector Oculi - From inner border of cms cerebri just in front of Pons 'Varolii. - Supplies all the muscles of the orbit except superior oblique & external rectus, and gives off motor root to lenticular ganglion. Fourth^ Trochlearis or PatheticUS - From upper part of valve of Vieussens. - Supplies superior oblique. Fifth, Trigeminal or Trifacial - Vide next Tableau. Sixtll or AbdUCenS - From constricted part of corpus pyramidale close to pons Varolii or from lower border of pons itself. ~ Supplies external rectus. Facial or Portio dura of the 7th ~ From upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove between olivary & restiform bodies. Anastomoses - With auditory, glosso-pharyngtal, pneumogastric, aurictdo-tempoj-al, great auricular; - also large, small, & external peti'osal nerves join Meckel's £r» ' Arnold's ganglia sympathetic. Branches - Large, small, external petrosal, tympanic, chorda tympani, posterior atiricular, muscular (to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric), temporo- cervico-facial. Auditory or Portio Mollis of the 7th - "From foor of A^th ventricle, its fibres of origin forming the lineie transversa:, and also from the restiform body & perhaps from pons Varolii. - Divides into vestibular & cochlear nerves. GlOSSO-pharyngeal - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata above pneumogastric. Presents two ganglia in anterior or inner part of jugular foramen, the superior or jugular, and the inferior or petrous. Anastomoses - With pneumogastric & facial, and through Jacobson's nerve with carotid plexus and great 6^ small petrosal nerves. Bkanches - Tympanic,carotid,pharyngeal)7nuscular (to stylo-pharyngeus & constric tors), tonsillar^ lingual. Pneumogastric - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata belozv glosso-pharyngeal above spinal accessory. - Presents two ganglia,- superior or jugular, small, rounded, situated in jugular foramen,- infei-ior or petrosal, large, cylindrical, situated below the foramen. Anastomoses - With facial^ the tivo other branches of the %th, hypoglossal, sympathetic^ loop between the two first cervical nerves. Blanches - Auricular,pharyngeal, superior lary^tgeal, inferior or recurrent lajyngeal^ cardiac, pulmonary, oesophageal &' gastric. Spinal Accessory - ACCESSORY POETION - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata helo%o pneumogastric. Joins pneumogastric, and assists in forming the pharyngeal, superior & inferior laryngeal branches of the latter. SPINAL POETION ~ From lateral column of the cord as low as ^th or Qth cervical nerves. - Enters skull through foramen magnum, leaves it through jugular fora- men in same sheath as pneumogastric, and supplies under surface of trapezius hypoglossal " From groove between anterior pyramid & olivary body by ten or twelve filaments, which form two bundles. Leaves skull through anterior condyloid foramen. Anastomoses - Witk fneumogastric, sympathetic, two first cervical nerves & gustatory. BRANCims - Descendens noni, muscular (to thjro- & genio-hyoid), (to stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus So stibstance of the tongue).291 TABLEAU of the FIFTH NERVE. From side of pons Varolii by two roots, anterior small or tnoior, posterior inr^ or xnsory. Sensory root to Gasserian Ganglion, motor root to inferior maxillary nerve outside cianium. Gasserian Ganglion gives off.* OPHTHALMIC — The smallest. Through outer wall of cavemons sinus below & externally to the other nerves, and divides into: Lachrymal - The smallest of the three divisions of ophthalmic. Feontal - The largest. Nasal - Intermediate in size. Gives off branches: ganglionic^ long ciliary, in- fratrochlear. Ophthalmic, Ciliary or Lenticular Ganglion. Thkbe Roots - Sensory, from nasal branch of ophthalmic* Motor, from branch'of^rd nerve to inferior oblique* Sympathetic, from cavernous plexus. Branches - The ciliary nerves, SUFSIilOK MAXILARY — Intermediate in size between ophthalmic & infer- ior maxillary. Through foramen rotundum, spheno-maxillary fossa, & infraorbital canal to infraorbital foramen, where divides into palpebral, nasal, labial. Gives off branches: orbital or temporo'fnalar^ spheno-palatine, posterior & anterior dental, Spheno-palatine or MeekePs Ganglion. Three Roots - Sensory, from superior maxillary. Motor, from facial through vidian. Sympathetic, from carotid plexus also through vidian. Branches : Ascending - Small filaments to periosteum of orbit. Descending - Anterior or great palatine, external palatine, posterior of small palatine. Internal - Superior nasal, naso-palatine. Posterior - Vidian, pterygo-palatine. INFERIOR MAXILLARY — The largest, both sensory & motor. Divides jnst below base of skull into: Anterior or Smaller Division - Principally motor. Divides into branches: masseteric, two deep tempoi'al, buccal, two pteiygoid. Posterior or Larger Division - Sensory with a few motor fibres. Divides into auriculo-tomporalj gustatory, inferior dental, the latter giving off the mylo-hyoid branch. Otic or Arnold's Ganglion. Three Roots - Sensory, from auriculo-temporal, and also from glosso- pharyngeal through small petrosal. Motor, from inferior maxillary & its internal pterygoid branch, also from facial through small petrosal. Sympathetic, from plexus on middle meningeal artery. Branches - To tensor palati & tensor tympani. Submaxillary Ganglion. Three Roots - Sensory, from gustatory. Motor, from facial through chorda tympani. Sympathetic, from plexus on facial artery. Branches - To mucous membrane of mouth, Wharton's duct, h anbmax- ;ills y gland.292 THE ABDOMINAL APONEUEOSES. Are the anterior ahdominal aJ>oueurosis, or aldominal aponeurosis proper, which is strengthened posteriorly by the fascia transversalis, and the lumbarfascia. ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL APONEUROSIS — is formed by aponeuroses of external & internal oblique, and by anterior aponeurosis of transversalis, which aponeuroses may be considered as expanded tendons of insertion. They all three assist in forming the linea alba & the sheath of the rectus. APONEUROSIS OF EXTERNAL OBLIQUE — The strongest & mdest of the three, and widest at its lower part; blended with aponeurosis of internal oblique in front of rectus and for some distance on either side, especially at upper part. Its fibres are oblique downwards & forwards, and form in succession Poupart's ligamejit, Gimbemat's ligament, Otcter or i7iferior pillar of external abdominal ring, Imter or Superior pillar,^ Stiperficial part of linea alba by decussating with their fellows, and perhaps also after decussating, the Triangular ligatnent & the Intercolimt' narfibres of the opposite side. Poupart'S Ligament - Strong curved band extending from anterior superior spine of ilium to spine of pubes, convex downwards & outwards, blended inferiorly with iliac fascia, internally with outer pillar of external abdominal ring, posteriorly with deep crural arch. Gimbemat's Ligament - Small triangular process reflected downwards, outwards & backwards from inner part of Poupart's ligament to ilio-pectineal line, and of which the outer concave margin forms inner boundary of femoral ring. Outer or Inferior Pillar of External Abdominal Ring - Blended with Poupart's ligament and attached Avith it to spine of pubes. Curves round inferior aspect of spermatic cord so as to form a groove upon which the cord resta. Inner or Superior Pillar of External Abdominal Ring - Broad, thin; interlaces mth ita fellow in front of symphysis. Linea Alba - Vide Below. Triangular Ligament - A triangular band lying behind inner pillar of external abdominal ring & Gimbemat's ligament and in front of conjoined tendon, and extending from lower part of linea alba to ilio-pectineal line. It is formed according to some anatomists by prolongation across median line of lowest of those fibres of aponeurosis of external ol>lique of oppsite side which enter into formation of linea alba. Intercolumnar Fibres - Are interwoven at right angles with, and bind together, the fibres of aponeurosis of external oblique, and more particularly those fibres which form the pillars of external abdominal ring. They extend downwards and outwards from middle & lower parts of linea alba to middle of Poupart's ligament describing curves convex inferiorly, and are said to be the continuation beyond the linea alba of middle fibres of aponeurosis of external oblique of opposite side. - Continuous with this layer of fibres is the inte7-columnar or external spermatic fascia, thin closely adherent to margins of exter- nal abdominal ring, and prolonged downwards into a tubular process around cord & testis. APONEUROSIS OF INTERNAL OBLIQUE — Thinner & rather narrower than fore- going, and narrowest at lower part. Divides opposite upper three-fourths of rectus into two layers, which blend, the one with aponeurosis of external oblique, the otlier with that of transversalis, and which pass, the one in front of, the other behind rectus, and again unite at linea alba. Passes wholly in front of lower part of rectus. INTERIOR APONEUROSIS OF TRANSVERSALIS - The narrowest of the three, especi- ally above, where some muscular fibres extend a little behind rectus. Passes behind rectus in its upper three-fourths, blending with posterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique. Passes in front of rectus in its lower fourth, blending with aponeurosis of external & internal oblique. SHEATH OF RECTUS — Is therefore complete in front and incomplete behind, where it corresponds only to upper three-fourths of the muscle ; the deficiency in posterior wall of sheath being marked superiorly by the Fold of Douglas, a well defined fibrous band concave inferiorly. In front it is formed by all three aponeuroses below, but only by aponeurosis of external oblique & anterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique, above. Beliind, it is formed, where it exists, by aponeurosis of transversalis & posterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique. LIE"EA ALBA — Tendinous raphe from ensiform cartilage to pubes, bounded by inner borders of recti; narrow below & broad above; perforated by numerous vascular & nervous foramina, atid by umbiUcus, opposite which it is closely adherent to integument. LINE^ SEMILUNAE.es —- Two curved depressed linear spaces produced on either side of recti, by absence of muscular fibres between these muscles and inner margin of muscular portion of internal oblique & transversaUs, POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL APONEUROSIS OR LUMBAR FASCIA - Formed by posterior aponeurosis of transversalis, the posterior layer of which aponeurosis is blended with vertebral aponeurosis and with aponeuroses of latissimus dorsi & serratus posticus inferior. POSTERIOR OR VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS OF TRANSVERSALIS - Divided into three layers. Posterior or Superficial Layer - The strongest. Attached to apices of spinoits processes of lumbar & sacral vertebra}, and blends with aponeuroses above mentioned. Gives origin to middle fibres of internal oblique, and binds down erector spinas. Middle Layer - Of considerable strength. Separates erector spina; from quadratus lumbsrum, and becomes attached to apices of transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae. Anterior Layer - The thinnest. Covers anterior aspect of quadratus lumborum, forming super- iorly the ligamentum arcuatum externum, and becomes attached to bases of transverse processes^293 PXJDIO NEEVE. Prom lower part of sacral plexus. With pudio artery through lower part of great saoro-soiatio foramen on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through bsaer sa"cro-sciatic foramen, where it gives off inferior heemorrhoidal nerve. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa above pudic artery, both nerve & artery being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into perinseal nerve & dorsal nerve of the penis. PERINiSAL NERVE — The larger. Accompanies superficial perinasal artery, and divides into branches: - Cutaneous or Superficial Perinseal - Two in number: Posterior or Internal - Gives filaments to skin in front of anus (and to the sphincter ani, Grray), and communicates with the inferior haemorrholdat nerve. It then passes forwai'ds to the scrotum or labium on the inner side of the following nerve with which it communicates anteriorly. Anterior or External - Forwards on outer side of foregoing to scrotum & integu- ment of penis, or labium. Communicates with foregoing, and with inferior pudendal, and gives a few twigs to levator ani. Muscular - G-enerally arise by a common trunk, which passes forwards and inwards under cover of trans versus perinsei, and supplies anterior extremity of sphincter ani, transversus perinsei, erector penis, accelerator urina3 & com- pressor urethras j a twig is given to the bulb of the urethra. DORSAL NERVE OF THE PENIS —■ The smaller. With pudic artery along rami of ischium & pubea between the two layers of deep perinseal fascia, and through suspensory ligament and along dorsum of penis to glans. Supplies skin of dorsum & sides of penis, and gives a large branch to corpus cavernosum. - Dorsal nerve of clitoris in female is smaller, but similarly distributed Inferior Hsemorrhoidal Nerve - May be derived directly from sacral plexus. Crosses ischio-rectal fossa towards lower end of rectum, and gives off num- erous branches to sphincter ani & integument round anus 5 communicates with superficial peringeal & inferior pudendal. INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY. (.Vide page 159.) Tortuous course upwards & inwards behind common carotid artery & sympathetic nerve, (the middle '.'ervical ganglion, when present, resting upon it) to under surface of thyroid gland, and anastomoses with the other thyroid arteries. - Gives off branches: Ascending Cervical - Ascends between scalenus anticus & rectus capitis anticus major; gives branches to deep muscles of neck, and, through the inter- vertebral foramina, to spinal cord & its membranes and bodies of the vertebrae. Laryngeal - Upon trachea to back of larynx; supplies muscles & mucous mem- brane. Tracheal - Join below with bronchial. OESOPHAGEAL - Descond upon oesophagus.294 ^ / ' THE CLASSIFICATION of JOINTS. \ / v The joints may be divided into: SYNARTHROSES — The bones are immoveably interlocked, and are in almost imme- diate contact, being separated only by a thin layer of periosteum termed the sutural ligament, and, at the base of the skull, by a thin layer of cartilage. - The varieties are the: Sutura Vera - The bones present a series of processes & indentations, which fit iu v^ith each other. The sub varieties are the: S. Dentata - The interlocking processes are large & ramified. - Ex.: Sagittal ^ lamboid stUnres. S. SERRATA - The interlocking processes are smaller & more regular. - Ex.: Tern- porary sutui'e in middle line of frontal bom. S. LiMBOSA - The articular surfaces are more or less bevelled, and.one overlaps the other. - Ex.: Fronto-parietal suture. Sutura Notha or False Suture - -A- mere apposition of rough surfaces. - The subvarieties are the: S. Squamosa - Considerable overlapping of extensively bevelled surfaces, - Ex.: Temporoparietal suture. S. Harmonica - Apposition in the mesial line of two symmetrical & vertically cut surfaces. - Ex.: Articulation between the tzuo halves of the upper Jaw. Schindylesis - A thin plate of bone is received into a cleft formed by the separation of the two plates of another bone. - Ex. t Artimlation of the rostrum of the sphenoid with the vomer. Gomphosis - The implantation of the teeth into the alveolar processes. AiyEPHIARTHROSES — The bones are bound together almost immoveably by means of thick plates of fibre-cartilage extremely adherent to each bone, and by strong external ligaments. In some cases the articular surfaces are partly covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and are partly lined with synovial membrane. The one class of amphiarthroses resemble the synarthroses, the other class resemble the diarthroses. [DlARTHROSEiS — The bones are bound together by means of external ligaments lined with synovial membrane, and the articular surfaces are covered with cartilage. Plates or rings of fibro-cartilage are sometimes included within the articular cavity, which cavity they occasionally divide into two distinct parts. - The arthrodisB having recently been subdivided by Cruveilhier into arthrodise proper, condyloid articulations, & articulations by reciprocal reception, the varieties of the diarthroses may now be enumerated as follows (in the order of decreasing variety & decreasing extent of the movements they admit) - : Enarthroses - Globular head received into a cup-shaped cavity. Well defined capsu- lar ligament. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, & rotation. - Ex : Hip-joint. Articulations by Reciprocal Reception - Articular surfaces inversely convex in one direction & concave in the other. Capsular ligament less perfect & complete than in the enarthroses. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, ab- duction, & circumduction; there is no of axial rotation. -Ex: Articulation of the vietacarpal bone of the thu?nb with the trapezium. Condyloid Articulations - Ovoid articular head, or condyle, received into an elliptical cavity. Strong anterior, posterior & lateral ligaments. Flexion & ex- tension very free; adduction, abduction & circumduction, rather less so; no axial rotation. Ex: Wrist-joint. Ginglymi - Trochlear surface on the one hand, cavity of reception to correspond, on the other. Strong lateral ligaments; anterior & posterior ligaments but slightly marked. Flexion & extension only. Ex: Elbow-joint. Diarthroses Rotatorii - Pivot-like process turning in an osteo-fibrous ring, or osteo-fibrous ring rotating upon an axial process. Eotatory movements only. Ex: Superior inferior radio-ulnar articulations. Arthrodise Proper - Articular surfaces flat or nearly so. Thin & loose capsules. Only gliding movements, which, movements are never very extensive. Ex* AcromiO'Clavicular articulation.