5 diligence and punctuality. I want no sluggards here ; and none who, by careless attention, disturb the application of others. Every man of you must act as dresser, either now or in summer. I will give every facility for a long continuation of that service. It is as dressers that you will come to have a true interest in the patients, to observe their cases with care, and feel some part of the difficulties and responsibilities of the work. After studying the various plans of clinical teaching followed in other schools at home and abroad, the method I have been led to adopt is this. On Monday, my friend Dr. Knox (one of our assistant-surgeons and able demonstrator) will give you in the side ward minute instruc- tion in bandaging, dressing, and the application of surgical apparatus. This duty I used myself to perform; but I am glad to have it taken up by younger and abler hands. What is there shown you will indi- vidually have to repeat before your instructor, and afterwards in my presence, in the fulfilment of your duty as dressers. All dressings of any consequence, as well as all appai-atus for fractures, etc., are ap- plied either by you, or, in your presence, by myself or my house-sur- geon. It is quite impossible that any accident can prevent, as too often in my own time, a student who attends the wards regularly from seeing all the usual fractures and dislocations frequently dealt with in all their details. On Tuesday, I meet you in the theatre, and *' lecture". By this, I mean that I then dwell upon the teaching derived from a series of cases of the same affection, which, either at the moment or quite re- cently, have been under treatment before you; or a wider and more general view than can be taken by the bedside is given of some of those accidents or diseases we have been studying—a view checked and regu- lated, however, at every point by the example with which we have been dealing. At other times, the causes, the nature and results of an opera- tion recently performed, or some of the more general questions affecting the sick under our care, are taken up. Cases of the same disease in dif- ferent wards are, as it were, collated and compared, and what practical lessons they teach are enforced. In this part of the work, pathological specimens and drawings are occasionally employed ; yet it is most de- sirable, even in these more formal meetings, to avoid controversial and critical discussion as much as possible. On Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday, we meet in the wards. Friday being the lecture day of my colleague, you are excused attend- ing with me (as his students are on Tuesday), in order that you may be present at his lecture. My ward work is thus conducted. We have a side room, well heated and lighted, fitted up with seats and a bed, into which all those patients which can be moved are brought on a light, noiseless, easily-wheeled couch. If a patient cannot leave his bed, then we visit him in the ordinary way ; but I much prefer having them taken into the siiSe room, because they can be there seen and examined with ease. Every student, being seated, can give his whole