SURGICAL CLINICAL TEACHING IN GLASGOW. Gentlemen,—It is desirable that, at the outset of our clinical work, I should explain to you the nature of the study we are going to engage in, and the system of teaching it which I pursue. Within the Univer- sity, I have already made known to you the aim and scope of my course of instruction in systematic surgery; and now here, in our practical school, I desire to point out what further duty devolves upon me as your teacher. As professor of surgery in this school, my business divides itself into two parts. These are not distinct or independent; but, on the contrary, form one whole; and that consists in delivering a complete course on the science and art of surgery. One half of my func- tion I perform within the University, and the other half here in the Hos- pital. No systematic course can be complete without its practical part in the clinical school, no more than systematic anatomy or chemistry can be efficient without dissecting-rooms and laboratory. On the other hand, no bedside instruction can avail without the preliminary education in the class-room. I am desirous of placing thus clearly before you this entire affinity and relationship between what is termed the theoretical and the practical departments of my subject, as attempts are occasionally made to dissever them, and even to exalt the one at the expense of the other. That of late years a strong disposition should have manifested itself to depreciate "lectures" and all mere oral teaching, and to com- mend "practical" instruction, need not astonish us when we remember how terribly lecturing was abused in days not long past. It appears to us now almost incredible that anatomy, chemistry, and botany should at one time have been taught without practical illustrations; but there is no doubt they were so. It must be borne in mind, however, that such practical instruction in surgery as can be given here is only capable of supplying you with a certain amount of that learning which you re- quire. It alone cannot possibly equip you for the exercise of the sur- gical art. You cannot do without it, yet you cannot do everything by it. It is requisite that you be first instructed in the principles on which the practice here seen is founded. You must be made conversant with