lO burgh secured a high reputation ; while, at the end of last century, Mr, Russell was appointed professor of clinical surgery, though the anomalous position in which he was placed as regards hospital wards made it impossible for him to succeed. Mr. Russell had no patients assigned him for the illustration of his course ; but, on obtaining the permission of the professor of anatomy and surgery (then conjoined), he was allowed to comment upon the cases under the treatment of his colleagues, but he could at any time be debarred by them from access to the wards. When anatomy and surgery were disjoined, the right to teach clinically was by an error attached to the former chair, and thus an opportunity was afforded for the establishment, on a truer basis, of that department of instruction, which has been so ably developed by its more recent incumbents. The exclusive rights now attached to the clinical chair of surgery in Edinburgh have, as is well known, occa- sioned much heartburning in that school. Nowhere else are students compelled to attend the teaching of one professor. To get this ar- rangement abolished, has been strenuously but futilely tried by the Royal College of Surgeons. So long as the chair is filled by an eminent man, perhaps no harm is done, but such exclusive privileges might be productive of the greatest harm under other circumstances. In 1782, Richter began at Gottingen the first of those admirable cliniques which have made many of the German schools famous, and now at nearly all the medical centres there exists a most elaborate system of bedside teaching. In 1792, Sir Astley Cooper began to employ his hospital cases to illustrate his surgical lectures. The effect of this, he tells us, was most gratifying. While in 1791 his class only numbered seventy-three, the year he made this change it increased to one hundred ; and the steady augmentation to four hundred and six in 1824, he ascribes to this clinical method of instruction. In 1792, some arrangements for teach- ing clinical medicine appear to have existed at the London Hospital. In 1813, Sir B. Brodie began to give regular bedside lessons. In Dublin, wards were set aside for clinical purposes as early as 1785, and by degrees a practical school of great eminence arose, for, while Crampton, Smyly, and Porter taught clinical surgery. Marsh, Corrigan, Graves, and Stokes brought practical medicine to great distinction. In our own city, clinical teaching appears to have existed as early as 1787, as a ticket for a course of " Lectures on the Cases of Patients in the Town's Hospital, Clyde Street, by Robert Cleghom, M.D.", is in the possession of my colleague Professor Cowan. The Royal Infirmary was established in 1793, and shortly afterwards bedside teaching was, to some extent, pursued ; but it was not till 1829 that such instruction obtained a permanent or important place in the education of students. No proper or efficient system of teaching could be pursued by the general practitioners of that day who were elected to serve in the hos- pital for two years at a time, and who were only in actual charge of patients for three months in each year. In later times, in the hands of