8 promise you that they will be frankly admitted and discussed. Candid criticism is the best security against the repetition of mistakes, and gives a guarantee for future improvement. To get the utmost good from your hospital work, you should read up at home on the different diseases, examples of which have been shown you in the morning ; and to facilitate this, I will, at the end of each day's demonstration, mention to you the subjects on which you should thus seek further information. It is of no use to begin all this work which I have outlined to you with spirit, and let the effort soon die out. The early enthusiasm must be sustained. Steady perseverance is far better than spasmodic applica- tion. The sooner students begin to get accustomed to hospital work the better ; and the longer they keep to it, the more they will like it. I have always regretted that foolish craving for "settling down" in practice which seizes so many of our men after they have graduated. It is just then, when they are free from the phantoms of examination that hospital attendance becomes really valuable ; and a year of quiet study at that time, in such an institution as this, would, as a mere com- mercial venture, repay them well, putting out of account the incalcu- lable satisfaction it would prove in after years. Every morning, I may add, I shall remain fully two hours with you, and nothing will afford me more pleasure than to answer any questions you have to put, or to assist you in any difficulty. My staff of assistants is more than usually numerous, and on their aid you can always rely. In what time remains to me, I propose to give you a brief outline of the history of clinical surgery, and explain to you the present position of the teaching in this school. As might be expected, very little is known of the early history of clinical teaching. It is generally said Hippocrates took his pupils to the bedside for instruction, and his careful annotations of disease at least prove him to have been a careful clinical observer. In the Alexandrian school, Herophilus and Erasistratus get the credit of having given bedside lessons ; but nearly all trace of such teaching is lost from that early time down to the end of the sixteenth century. True, it is said that Thessalus and Symmachus during the first century, and the teachers in the school of Salernum in the twelfth century, at- tempted such instruction, but our knowledge of its exact nature is too slight to enable us to form any opinion concerning it. For a brief period at the end of the sixteenth century, clinical teaching was pursued at Padua and Pisa, but it was soon abandoned ; but afterwards, in 1764, a clinical chair was established at the former school. In the sixteenth century, medicine was much oppressed by the authority of the ancients. The dogmas of the "Fathers" Hippocrates, Galen, and Celsus held men's judgments in all-powerful fetters till the awakening which fol- lowed the Reformation, and the discovery of printing stimulated medical like all other knowledge. Anatomy was in a great measure born, and her eldest child Surgery grew to a certain degree of vigour, mainly