9 througli the guidance of Ambrose Pave (a pupil of Fallopius), who had the courage to think for himself, and to add his own observations and reflections to the traditional teaching of the schools. He, though, like most of his distinguished contemporaries and successors, a "barber surgeon", gave surgery somewhat of a scientific position. He esta- blished a school of surgical practice which for a hundred years governed France, and, in fact, Europe. The seventeenth century marks the division between ancient and modern practice; and, under the influence of the philosophy of Bacon and Descartes, men's minds began to open, and the all-powerful effect of authority was abolished. Harvey and a host of able anatomists in all countries by their discoveries greatly ad- vanced medical science, while Leeuwenhoek opened up the vast field of minute anatomy by the application of the microscope to histological purposes. In the middle of the seventeenth century, Boerhaave (a student of Pitcairn of Edinburgh) taught clinically and with great eclat at Leyden; and to Dr. John Rutherford and De Ha en, his pupils, the Edinburgh and Vienna schools owe the introduction of the teaching of practical medi- cine. In 1754, the celebrated Van Swieten was ordered by Maria Theresa to establish a clinical school at Vienna, and De Haen became the first professor. At the period of which I speak, it was in Italy and France that surgery chiefly progressed; but Wiseman in England and Purmann in Germany gathered, in the bloody tumults of the time, many important surgical axioms. The Royal Academy of Surgery, founded by Louis XIV, gave a great impetus to surgery ; and in the Institution of the Garden of Plants Dionis found a field for his great talents. He began clinical teaching in France ; and after him Saviard, Mareschal, and others pursued it at the Hotel-Dieu. The College of Saint C6me and the Royal Academy of Surgery gave a life, though often a very stormy one, to surgical dis- cussion and research. Ledran, Louis, Garengeot, and before all others J. L. Petit, gave a prominence to French surgery at the beginning of the eighteenth century, which was increased and extended by their suc- cessors Desault, Sabatier, Chopart, Anel, Pouteau, and after them in succession Bichat, Dupuytren, Boyer, Roux, and Nekton, all of whom have been the chief surgical clinical teachers of Europe. It is, per- haps, Desault's chief glory that he established permanently clinical teaching in Paris (in 1750), and to his clinic Chopart, Bichat, Du- puytren, and Boyer in succession followed. The Edinburgh Infirmary was established in 1736; and in 1748 Rutherford was busy teaching clinical medicine. I have seen it stated that before that date Monro had undertaken clinical surgery ; but I have been unable to verify this. Rutherford tells us his plan was (i) to give a history of the disease in general; (2) then to inquire into its cause ; (3) next, to give his prognosis; and (4) lastly, to lay down in- dications for cure. In the hands of Cullen, who succeeded Rutherford, and afterwards from Gregory and Alison, clinical medicine in Edin-