7 of what we do in the wards ; so that an easy control is maintained, and a definite arrangement in a great measure pursued, in following out our study. I shall expect every dresser to have an intimate acquaint- ance with his cases; and occasionally I shall ask for written reports from him, besides questioning him at the bedside. Rewards (medal and certificates) are awarded for diligence and proficiency; and the house-surgeonships are bestowed (if the applicants be otherwise eligible) on those who attain the highest place in this department. But besides the junior class to whose studies I have hitherto re- ferred, I have been induced, by the spontaneous request of the senior men (those who have passed on to the medical side of the hospital), to meet them once a week for clinical purposes ; and I would here refer to that class, as it is a voluntary one, and beyond doubt, to my mind, the most useful I have ever conducted. This is the third year of its existence; and this session it contains_the great majority of the most advanced students. The hour of meeting is after the usual visit on Thursdays ; and, for their instruction, I employ chiefly the out-door patients, who come up to my ward for advice. In the siek ward, we hold our conferences, which are as nearly as possible the same as they would be in private practice. Each student in turn examines a case, and gives an account of everything in the anatomy, physiology, path- ology, and surgery, which can be connected with it. Not only do they in this way get their knowledge corrected, but they come to discover what subjects they are ignorant of, and so are led to supply the de- ficiency. The utmost frankness of communication is cultivated. The students have also organised themselves, by my'advice, into a society, which meets on Saturday. Two examiners from their own number are appointed for the subsequent meeting ; and it is t r duty to pre- pare themselves thoroughly on some medical subject which has been within the range of their study ; and, for half an hour, each presides and examines the rest. Of course, he does not let the subject he is going to take up be known beforehand ; and his authority for the time is strenuously maintained. Now, gentlemen, in all this I have frankly laid before you the plan of clinical teaching I have been led to adopt; but it will be useless unless it receives your most cordial support. The knowledge you seek must be conquered by yourselves. All I can do is to point the way as best I can, and try to awaken your observing faculties, and lead you to reflect. I cannot give you perseverance and attention ; but I can and M'iW give you an example of industry and punctual attention to my duty. It is essential to your advancement that you keep yourselves abreast of the cases. You may visit the wards freely during the morning; and the ward-journal, in which all changes in the patients are noted, is open for your inspection ; and I shall at each visit tell you carefully of any- thing which has occurred during the interval since our last meeting. Everything done is open to your most minute in3pection. Every error or oversight made you haVe the amplest means of discovering ; and I