6 attention to what is doing, and can take notes accurately and comfort- ably. The patient is placed on the bed in full view of all, and his ail- ment systematically inquired into. You will observe that I ask each question in a loud voice, and repeat the reply, so that you can follow what is done. After a little initiatory practice, you will each be called upon to take my part, and examine the patient. I shall, in any case, try to show you how best to obtain and apply information ; and I shall, by examining you on what you see and hear, know whether your comprehension follows the work performed. Explanations can be given regarding each case, both before the patient enters and after he leaves. All remarks which it is undesirable that the patient or his fellows should hear, can thus be freely given utterance to ; and so all fear of wounding his feelings avoided. The harm, too, which so frequently is done to weak and nervous patients by the rush of an eager crowd into the ward, is prevented ; and thus the interests of both patients and stu- dents are promoted. The lesser operations I also perform at these meet- ings ; and as you are close to the patient, and each step is explained, you will, I think, get more good from them than is usually attainable. Great and dangerous operations unfortunately require not unfrequently to be undertaken ; but these you will see performed in the theatre on Saturday. In this hospital, I hope you will not find any of that ill- placed sensationalism regarding operations which, to the great detri- ment of students and the profession, is too often indulged in. Our aim should be to diminish the number, and lessen the risk, of those opera- tions which mark surgical practice. The cases we shall chiefly deal with in our ward work are the com- mon and every-day surgical ailments, not the rare and curious, which seldom occur in actual practice. The more usual an ailment or acci- dent, the more claim it will have on our attention. Each morning, we vrill only take up a very few cases ; and these typical, and well marked examples of their kind. The great point will be to secure a clear com- prehension of a few ailments, and the principles deducible from them. All risk of such confusion as would arise from dealing with too many, and, above all, unrelated cases must be avoided. Here we have always abundance of material from the large and busy city around us. I shall try to be as simple and elementary as possible in conveying information, remembering that the reciptivity of first-year's hospital students cannot be great; and I shall also aim at rendering the whole teaching as con- formable as possible to a system, so as to supply, by the end of the session, a fair summary of surgical practice. We must so group our cases as to make them afford the greatest amount of instruction, and, at the same time, secure order in our work. To accomplish this effectually, two things are provided. I have put into your hands a short guide to case-taking, in which you will find an outline of the chief points to be observed, both as regards cases in general and special ail- ments. By following this, a\ uniform system* will be attained. The other requirement to orderly procedure is that I keep a daily register