4 the terms used at the bedside. You must know, in some measure, the nosology and pathology of the diseases brought before you, as well as the usual influence exercised by those conditions which are special to the patient, and the effects which are produced by remedies. Sys- tematic surgery is, after all, the sum of clinical experience. Such a course is made up of the conclusions or generalisations drawn from a multitude of bedside observations reduced to order and syslematised. Clinical surgery can thus never wholly take the place of systematic ; but must ever be merely auxiliary or subsidiary to it. The two branches must be entwined, and then they will mutually support and illustrate one another. If you have been well indoctrinated in principles, you will come half taught to the bedside, and be capable of profiting by what you there see. To learn practical surgery is, however, not easy, and will demand all your attention. Give it as much time as you can. It is by it that you must come to fulfil the chief end of your professional life : the alleviation of suffering, and the saving of human life. Clinical study, then, aims at applying the rules and doctrines of the class-room to actual cases of disease. In the hospital, we see the living illustrations of those affections of which we have read or heard ; and in many cases we are able to compare the relationship which exists between certain signs seen during life, and the state of textures and organs after death. It is in clinical research, properly conducted, that we gain that accuracy in the employment of the special senses which is so desirable ; and learn to exercise the judging and reasoning faculties in sifting evidence, and separating what is accidental and immaterial from the essential and important, in those facts or signs which are presented to our observation. Careful attention, patience and diligence, truth and candour in observing and applying facts to support theories—accuracy in generalising or deducing principles—these are qualifications which are requisite in a clinical student. In this school, as in most others, clinical instruction is conveyed both by "lectures" and by bedside teaching. Once a week, a more formal lecture is given by each medical attendant, and on several days you receive instruction in the wards. Both these methods are advantageous when combined. In some schools, the bedside work is neglected, and the "lecture" is the main or sole means of teaching; while, in other hospitals, the reverse is the case, and ward lessons are alone employed. The traditions and usages of the school, or the means and time at the disposal of the teacher, appear in many cases to determine the choice. I do not think that, in many schools, this practical work has been so zealously cultivated as it has been for some years here. You will soon find how strictly attendance is enforced. At five minutes past nine in the morning, whether it be at lecture or in the ward, the roll will be called, and every absentee must give a satisfactory account of himself. I shall endeavour this session, as in the past, to be at my post every morning to a moment, and to allow no private engagement to interfere with this important duty ; and I shall expect from you like