284- RESPIRATION. of the internal lining. It is a curious fact that the exterior of the lung should be desti- tute of cilia, while they should be present on that of the liver in the newt. They are, how- ever, on this last organ, limited to the margin9 Nothing is more easy than to exhibit the living circulation in the lung of the newt. The Fig. 233. which forms a thin pavement coating. This surface is destitute of cilia. In the frog, as in Fig. 234. A small piece coinciding with the true capillary or respiratory area from the lung o f the Arewt, viewed by transmitted light under a high power. The blood-corpuscles in streams are seen in the spaces between the islets a, a( a. Only these parts are in focus. The hyaline epithelium covering the near face o f the picture is out of sight. The eye looks beyond it. In this fresh uninfected state the blood- channels' do not appear to be bounded by separate and independent parietes. ( Original.) a, a, a, are parenchymatous islets occupying the meshes of the cnpillary rete. They are composed of cells carrying nuclei and granules. internal bore of the vessel viewed by trans- mitted light is much greater than the long diameter of the red corpuscles. The meshes (a, o) are mere points. The scene is one thick, rich, surpassingly beautiful network of moving blood. In the frogs and toads the lungs consist of two large, short, and broad, slightly cancellated shining bags. They are situated on either side of the spine, at the roof of the abdominal cavity. They are remarkably elastic, like those of the newt. They are capable of slowly expelling their contents even after the removal of the abdominal walls, and of draw- ing themselves up into little hard balls on either side of the pharynx. They exhibit well the living circulation. The glottidean aperture communicates directly with the interior of the organ. There is, therefore, no trachea. The orifice of the glottis is surrounded by rudimentary cartilages somewhat further de- veloped. The mechanism of breathing is the same in the frog and toad, in which, like the newt, the thoracic ribs are wanting, as in the salamanders. The steps of the process are, however, better studied in the frog. The outer surface of the lung in the frog is closely invested with peritoneum, the epithelium of Heart, vessels, and lungs of the Frog. the newt, the edges of the liver are fringed with motile cilia. The pulmonary artery (see art. Circulation), derived from the aorta, pro- ceeds along the outer side of the lung. It lies immediately underneath the peritoneal epi- thelium. The very reverse course is taken by the large venous trunk on the opposite side. This lies in immediate contact with the internal or mucous surface. By this ar- rangement the contact of the blood with the air is prolonged. The contributory branches of the vein course along the free internal edges of the septa bounding the cells. The branches of the artery occupy the opposed fixed borders of the same septa. The flat surfaces, or sides of the cells, being the areas dividing the arteries and veins, are the scenes of the capillary segments. To this rule, of course, the eye, by close scrutiny, may detect many exceptions. By this distribution of parts, every spot of the internal superficies is functionally utilised. The ciliary epithelium is limited, in its distribution, to the margins of the cells and the lines of the larger vessels. The true capillar}' areas whereon alone respi- ration actively proceeds are covered only by a hyaline epithelium, the cells of which can only be distinguished by their outlines (fig. 232. c, c). The ciliated tracts, according to the manner already described in the lung of the newt, terminate by abrupt borders. The epi- thelial cell only is continued over the capillary areas. There prevails an avci-agc uniformity in the dimensions of these areas. Each particle of blood, therefore, in its transit from the artery to the vein across this area, is exposed, for the same period of time, to the influence of the air. In the lung of the frog and toad the septa support two layers of reticulate vessels,