323 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. They everywhere bound a tube with a dis- tinct calibre. In the cardiac region, it is only the ridges, and the upper part of the tubes, which are covered by columnar epithelium. At the first (b b, fig. 248.) or second bifurcation of the primary tube, the character of its lin- ing altogether changes: and from hence onwards to their rounded blind extremities, the secondary tubules are immediately lined by peculiar oval cells (u c, fig. 248.). These cells are analogous to those seen in the human stomach. They differ however from them, not only in their great size, and more distinct walls, but also in the fact, that they generally bulge the basement membrane of the tube, so as to give it a somewhat moni- liform outline. A closer examination shows this appearance to be caused by the prominent cells occupying irregular heights around the wall of the tube. On getting the middle of such an isolated tube into the focus of the microscope, we find that in the higher part of the tubule, near where it opens into the primary tube, the oval cells, which are always in immediate contact with the basement membrane, form a double row with a somewhat sinuous interval. This interval is a distinct though narrow calibre. Below this visible calibre, I had long been aware that the similar interval between the larger cells was occupied by an immense number of small nucleated cells or cytoblasts, —many of which are firm, with dis- tinct and somewhat angular outlines; while others are excessively delicate, pale, flattened, oval, transparent, and of equal or much smaller size. And the more skilful manipulation of Koelliker has recently enabled him to state, that the centre of the tube presents a con- tinuous narrow calibre or cavity (a, fig. 240.), which is immediately bounded by these small, roundish, or angular cells (c, a and b). Be- tween these small cells and the limitary mem- brane, the large oval cells are interposed (b, a and b). Below, the latter often seem to form the sole contents of the tube. The truth of Koellikei's description I can fully substantiate; so far as regards the upper part of these secondary tubes, in the cardiac five-sixths of the organ. Even the blind ex- tremities of the tubes seem to have their axes occupied by the delicate cytoblasts pre- viously alluded to; but they are here, so far as I can see, disposed irregularly. Higher up, the cells are more angular, and possess more distinct outlines; and are often arranged in two rows, which are in contact at the centre of the tube. It is only towards the apertures of the secondary tubes, where the oval cells are beginning to be more thinly scattered prior to their disappearance, that these small cyto- blasts appear to form a distinct calibre or tubular cavity of appreciable width. Here they merge into the columnar form;—a change which begins by their becoming elongated to- wards the axis of the tube, and allowing water to develope a distinct cell-membrane at this part (c,fig. 249.). But there are many appear- ances which render it by no means impossible that the whole length of the tube possesses a narrow calibre, formed by a regular arrange- Fig. 249. Portions of tubes from the cardiac extremity of the dofs stomach. Magnified 350 diameters. {Partly after Koelliker.) A. portion from the middle of such .a cardiac tube ; a, limitary membrane of tube ; b, large oval gastric cell; c, smaller axial cells. B. Same seen in transverse section; a, b, c, as above. External to c are seen indistinctly some delicate cytoblasts; c, junction of the primary and secondary tubes, show- ing the mode in which the small axial cells of the latter are continuous with the columnar cells which form the epithelium of the former. ment of these small cells. While I have no doubt that the interstices left between the large cells and this central tube of epithelium are also filled up by numbers of cytoblasts, of excessive delicacy, and various degrees of mi- nuteness (d, b and c). Besides these free cytoblasts within the tube, we may find others of endogenous origin. Very careful observation of the large oval cells will show that they enclose cytoblasts in addition to their minutely granular contents (compare b, fig. 246.). The number of these cytoblasts ap- pears to vary from two to twenty in different cells. They are excessively delicate, of about --ij.-th inch diameter: their shape is a flat- tened oval ; and they contain a bright spot or nucleus. They seem to be chiefly in contact with the inner surface of the motlier-cell ; so that in many animals, specimens of their out- line can often be distinctly seen through the nearly transparent wall of this cell under the higher powers of the microscope. They may, however, be easily overlooked. And their distinctness never equals that of the proper nucleus of the cell ; closely as they resemble this structure in size and shape. They may sometimes be seen projecting from the broken half of a mother-cell; or set free from it, owing to its having been ruptured by the Y 2