226 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). sistence and of a dark-brown colour ; the other white and opaque. The former, which cor- Fig. 145. Section of part of the receptacle of a Truffle, about 2o0 diam. a, outer layer of the peridium consisting of a resistant tissue of thick-walled cells; b, inner layer of the same, formed of filamentous tissue continu- ous with that of v, one of the venae interna?, or par- titions by which the compartments (originally cavities) of the truffle are bounded. Portions of two of these compartments are seen with the theca; and septate filaments which they contain. responds to the partitions which, in the young state of the truffle, separated the cavities, is continuous with the external tissue which composes the envelope or peridium, and con- stitutes the vena internee of Vittadini.* The laminae which it forms, consist of filaments running, for the most part, parallel to each other. The white substance which occupies the original cavities of the tuber, is formed of closed tubes, which are given off" in great numbers from the surfaces of the laminae. These tubes, which are the terminations of the filaments of which the laminae are com- posed, are of two kinds. Some are of equal diameter throughout, and divided at intervals by septa; others, much shorter, are dilated at their extremities, and contain spores (thecas). Each theca is an obovate vesicle, and con- tains two, three, or more spores, never more than eight. Each spore is invested with abeau- tifully reticulate, or sometimes warty epispore, within which may be distinguished a smooth inner membrane, immediately enclosing the oleaginous contents.f * Vittadini, Monog. Tuberacearum, p. 2. et seq. t L, R. & C. Tulasne, Histoire des Champignons hypogee's, 4t-50. 37. Theascophorous Fungi are represented in their simplest form by the Uredineae, a family which has been studied by numerous observers on account of the destructive pro- perties of the plants belonging to it. The mass which is formed by the growth of the reproductive organs of Uredo under the epi- dermis of the leaves of the plants upon which it grows parasitically, may be aptly compared to a pustule, a grumous-looking substance, occupying, as it were, the place of the pus. On more minute examination of the cavity, we find that it is bounded by a kind of irre- gular wall or lining of pyriform cells, the smaller ends of which rest upon a reticular cushion of mycelium. These are probably the enlarged extremities of the mycelium filaments, with which many of them can be distinctly traced to be connected. Towards the base of the cavity other cells are developed, resem- bling those first mentioned in their general form, as well as in their relation to the myce- lium. In these, however, the membrane is produced inferiorly, so as to form a tubular pedicle ; while in the club-shaped upper ex- tremity it is lined by a considerable deposit of granular protoplasma, so that here the central cavity is very much smaller than that of the external membrane. It is in this cavity that the spore is formed, at first not exceeding it in size, but afterwards increasing at the ex- pense of the protoplasma, so as almost to fill the theca. In other genera, as in Phragmidium, there are pedicled cells of a similar form, and originating in a similar manner, which, how- ever, instead of one spore, develop a number in their interior; these spores are arranged in linear series, and are formed in the same manner. The protoplasma, however, never disappears completely, but remains as a more or less consistent membrane, glueing the ripe spore to the spore-case which encloses it. Some of the Uredineae possess a cyst which re- minds us of the perithecium of the Sphceriaceae, to which they are evidently closely related. The cyst is formed ((Ecidium) of a single layer of roundish cells.* 38. From the Uredineae we pass by a natural transition to the Discomycetes and Pyreno- mycetes. These plants have been investi- gated with much success by MM. Tulasne, who have shown that they possess the closest relationship not only to the Lichens, but to the most simple thread Fungi. The very remarkable facts which these observers have discovered, render the study of these plants more satisfactory and instructive than that of any other family of the class. The Pyrenomycetes are represented by Sphoeria, the receptacle of which consists, as is well known, of a spherical cyst, which is open above. Its wall is frequently prolonged up- wards into a tubular beak, which projects beyond the surface of the bark or wood in which the whole plant is embedded. The membrane of the cyst (perithecium) is usually * L. E. Tulasne, Eecherches sur les Uredine'es, &c. Ann. des Sc. Nat. 3me. S. t. vii. p. 12.