STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 320 its muscular coats * ; in others, the oesophagus has been found greatly thickened ; and in others f, this thickening has also implicated the stomach itself. In other cases J, this organ has been found with a narrowed or hardened pyloric sac, or a dilated and relaxed cardiac extremity or aperture; or even in a state of suppuration. From a comparison of these appearances, it would therefore seem, that the act is often at least assisted by vigorous gas- tric movements. And the existence of such movements is also implied by the fact, that this rumination occurs at the period of diges- tion, when the organ is distended, and its pyloric aperture shut. As regards the main feature of the process- namely, its subjection to the will, — it is im- portant to notice that great variations obtain. Thus, in some of these cases, the expulsion of the food has required a violent effort. In the majority, it has been easily evoked or suppressed. While in others, it has been al- most uncontrollable ; or its non-occurrence at the habitual time has been followed by a painful feeling of fulness, or by the act of vo- miting. On the whole, the variable condition of the stomach itself, the slow acquisition of the habit in some subjects, its close resemblance to the easy vomiting of young children, as well as its analogy to voluntary eructation — all these circumstances favour the belief, that the unusual effort of volition which forms the main feature of the act has for its object to open or relax the cardiac orifice and the lower part of the oesophagus. Without such a re- laxation, any further efforts on the part of the active pyloric sac would be inefficient: while, with it, their place might be more than supplied by the presence of powerful abdo- minal contractions. Finally, it is much more consistent with all we know of these two seg- ments of the alimentary canal to suppose the oesophagus capable of being slightly affected by a voluntary effort, than to imagine any part of the stomach placed in the anoma- lous position of a powerful voluntary muscle, its muscular coat sometimes remaining un- affected, sometimes being positively disor- ganized by structural disease. And the hy- pertrophy of the gastric coats, in some of the instances before alluded to, may be in- terpreted as the effect of rumination, quite as much as its cause ; in other words, as being possibly produced by that prolonged gastric movement which would result from such an act, in those instances in which the organ was otherwise healthy. Mucous membrane.— The mucous mem- brane, on which the functions of the various parts of the intestinal canal essentially depend, is so modified in the stomach, as to offer a complex arrangement, such as remarkably * Voigtel. Path. Anat. vol. ii. p. 517. t Arnold's Untersuclmngen. Zurich, 1838, p. 211.; Valentin's Lehrbucb, vol. i. p. 273. t Arnold. Lehrbucli der Pathologischen Physio- logic, § 571. contrasts it with the simpler layer that lines the upper part of the tube.* And it is dis- tinguished from the compound membrane of the intestine by the possession of certain spe- cial structures :—namely, the proper gastric cells, or glandular epithelia, as they are some- times called. The remaining histological constituents of this mucous membrane are similar to those met with in other parts of the canal. A delicate membrane is variously involuted or moulded upon a quantity of areolar tissue. The latter texture, which is thus immediately subjacent to this " basement" membrane, forms the matrix of the mucous coat, and, as such, contains its vessels, nerves, and lymphatics, and connects it with the middle or muscular coat. While on its opposite side, the deli- cate limitary membrane sustains a number of minute cells, that bound the cavity of the tube. Examined by the naked eye in situ, the mucous membrane of the stomach is seen to be a tolerably firm but soft layer, of a pale pink colour, which everywhere loosely lines the interior of the muscular coat, and pro- jects from its surface in numerous wrinkled folds. These ruga chiefly occupy the cardiac half of the organ, forming convolutions which, though somewhat irregular, are mainly lon- gitudinal. They are effaced by distention of the stomach. And on putting the mucous membrane on the stretch, we may often discern that its whole internal surface is occupied by extremely minute pits or de- pressionsf; the confluent and projecting intervals of which become so much longer as they near the pylorus, that they may almost be compared to very short and scat- tered villi. These depressions are the open- ings of the stomach-tubes or proper gastric glands. The stomach-tuhes (c,a,d,Jig. 216.) may be described as cylinders of basement membrane : which are packed vertically side by side in a sparing matrix of dense areolar tissue, and are filled by a peculiar cell-growth. Below, they terminate in closed and rounded extremi- ties (d). Above, they expand slightly before reaching the free surface of the membrane, where their margins finally become continuous with each other, so as to form a series of low ridges, the height and width of which vary somewhat in different parts of the stomach. The length of these tubes is, on an average, about Tj^th of an inch. But this estimate, which is tolerably accurate as regards the middle of the organ, may be almost doubled for the pyloric, and halved for the cardiac region, — a difference which forms the main cause of the very different thickness of the mucous membrane in these two parts. * See articles Mouth, (Esophagus, and Pha- kynx. •f Such details may be best verified by everting andinflating a perfectly fresh stomach; and removing the adherent mucus by pouring on it a very gentle stream of water, from a gradually increasing eleva- tion.