STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 333 differs chiefly in containing about 2 per cent, more nitrogen. The addition of a few drops of dilute muriatic acid to a solution of this precipitate in cold water, constitutes a liquid which possesses energetic solvent powers over ordi- nary animal food. Hence the organic sub- stance itself has been termed pepsine (i^o-is, concoctio) :—a name to which there can be no objection, so long as its meaning is confined within proper limits ; and is not extended to imply a single and definite organic com- pound, capable of digesting all the aliment- ary principles.* The chemical properties of pepsine offer a striking resemblance to those of many albu- minous compounds. Its chief differences from these substances seem to consist in the fact, that it is little or not at all precipitated from its watery solution, by some of the salts which would throw down dissolved albumen. But the precise degree of this resemblance has been found to vary greatly in different obser- vations. Nor is this want of uniformity sur- pizing. For, as Frerichs has pointed outf, the various watery extracts of stomach made * Here, again, the author thinks it better to sub- join in a foot-note the successive additions to our knowledge that have gradually built up the brief statement of the text,—to which many readers will probably prefer limiting their attention. As before mentioned, Reaumur, Spallanzani, and Carminati, may be regarded as having collectively determined that the gastric juice is an acid, anti- septic liquid, secreted on the introduction of food, and capable of dissolving certain alimentary sub- stances, even when removed from the body. The first attempt to analyze the organic matters of the gastric juice was made by Tiedemann and Gmelin (Loc. cit.). They announced the presence of mucus; an alcoholic extract or osmazome; and a substance, soluble in water and precipitated by various metallic salts, which they stated to be Pti/a- line. Eberle (Physiologic der Verdauung, Wuerzburg, 1834) adopted a more synthetical method of inquiry. He found that the addition of dilute acids to an in- fusion of the gastric mucous membrane formed an ar- tificial digestive fluid. Schwann (Mueller's Archiv. 1836. pp. 70. et seq., 90. et seq.: and Poggendorff's Annalen, Bd. xxxviii. p. 358.) went still further. He found that it was only the glandular part of the stomach which possessed this power. And by pre- viously removing the albumen of agastric infusion, and neutralizing its acid, he was enabled to preci- pitate with bichloride of mercury a substance, which, when mixed with very dilute hydrochloric acid, and freed from this metal, formed a powerful digestive agent. He therefore named it Pepsine. Wasmann (Loc. cit.) adopted a different method. He precipitated a very carefully prepared watery extract of stomach with aceta'e of lead or bichloride of mercury. After removing the metal and acid, he threw down the pepsine by alcohol, and thus puri- fied it from osmazome, which is soluble in this liquid. The various observers who have since corrobo- rated Wasmann's statements do not seem to have ef- fected any important improvement in this process. Amongst these we may enumerate Pappenheim (Zur Kenntniss der Verdauung, Breslau, 1839), Valentin (Pepertorium, B. i., s. 64.), Elsaesser (Magenerwei- chung der Saueglingi', Stuitgart, 1846), Buchheim (De Albumine, Pepsino, et Muco. Lipsiaj 1845), Vogel (Op. cit.), Lehmann (Loc. cit.), Scherer, Stannius, and many others. t Op. cit. p. 785. use of in such experiments have all been mix- tures of gastric juice with a variable quantity of albuminous matters, from which substances the pepsine is but partially set free by the sub- sequent process of purification. To this fact we may add, that it is not impossible the quantity and quality of the mineral constitu- ents contained in these impurities have also affected the results. Frerichs therefore exa- mined a quantity of the gastric secretion, which had been obtained from fistula?; and from dogs who had been made to swallow in- digestible substances, such as pebbles and peppercorns. In such cases saliva would pro- bably form the only impurity. The reactions of gastric juice, and probably of pure pepsine, are as follows : it is not preci- pitated by boiling, by ferro-cyanide of potas- sium, sulphate of copper,alum, chloride of iron, or mineral acids. It is precipitated, though not completely, by bi-chloride of mercury. Car- bonates of the alkalies give a precipitate of its lime salts. And the soluble salts of silver and lead throw down the chlorides of these metals. In all of these instances a portion of the pep- sine is carried down with the precipitate. In the case of the lead, the greater part of the pepsine is thus deposited ; but almost all of it may be recovered by washing. Action of the gastric juice.— It is to the repeated and careful experiments on artificial digestion, which were begun by Eberle, and continued by the various observers before alluded to*, that our knowledge of the details of stomach-digestion is chiefly due. This method of inquiry has not only allowed a continuous and close inspection of changes which must have escaped observation in the living body, but has so varied the several conditions of the solvent process, as almost to acquaint us with the share which each takes in the final and united result. In short, these "questionings of nature" have so far been answered, that we may be said to know, not only what substances the stomach digests, but by what means it digests them. Of the nature of this process, however, we are still ignorant ; or at most, can only find in its cir- cumstances some analogies, such as may justify and support a few vague conjectures respecting it. Temperature exercises an important in- fluence on the gastric solvent. At the or- dinary temperature of the atmosphere, the action of the gastric juice is scarcely percep- tible, even when continued during many hours.f Lower degrees of cold suspend its action still more completely. Heated to the temperature of the body—namely, to about 100° Fahrenheit — it acts very energetically. A further accession of temperature at first increases, but soon injures, and finally for ever destroys, all its digestive powers. The precise point at which this change of effect occurs is not clearly known; but it is probably at or near 120°. The dried pepsine of the artificial digest* * Tn the foot-note to this page, j- Beaumont, Op. cit. p. 146.