399 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. oily substances when reduced to an artificial emulsion,—would seem to be one of the chief offices of the pancreatic juice. The evidence adduced by Bernard* in sup- port of his views appears very conclusive. His experiments gave him the means of ob- taining large quantities of pancreatic juice from Dogs. A mixture of this secretion and oil, when shaken together, immediately pro- duced an emulsion of the most intimate kind, such as no other animal fluid which he exa- mined could imitate. A similar emulsion within the body could be seen in the Rabbit, when fed on butter. In this animal, the pan- creatic duct opens into the intestine com- paratively low down. And hence there is, under such circumstances, a long extent of bowel above the orifice of this duct, quite devoid of white chyle ; while below, the lac- teals are distended with this fluid. And, finally, experiments on the healthy animal j", and observations on human disease, tend to establish the same conclusion. Complete artificial obstruction of the pancreatic duct, diversion of its contents from the intestine, and extensive disease of the secretory struc- ture of the gland, — alike prevent the forma- tion of white chyle. The small quantity of the pancreatic se- cretion would, perhaps, indicate that much of the metamorphosis of starch is effected by the saliva. And, taken in conjunction with the neutral or feebly alkaline reaction of the bile, and the apparently small amount of alka- line intestinal juice, it may at any rate be re- garded as throwing great doubt upon the old theory of a direct neutralization of the acid chyme in the intestinal cavity. The precise share taken by the bile in the process of intestinal digestion, is even more obscure than that of the pancreatic fluid. It may probably be stated as follows :— The bile is not essential to the solution or absorption of any one of the alimentary prin- ciples. Nor, on the other hand, does its pre- sence check the conversion of protein into peptone J, or of starch into sugar. But from the appearance of the faeces in jaundice and biliary fistulae, it would seem that its admix- ture with the food limits and modifies the * In a mere enumeration of the chief digestive changes, all controversial discussion would be out of place. I shall therefore content myself with saying, that having seen this eminent physiologist perform the more essential of his admirable ex- periments abroad, and repeated some of them at home, I entertain little doubt of their substantial accuracy. And to the ordinary disparity between the value of the negative and positive results of experiment, one may add, that none of Bernard's German antagonists appear to have succeeded in procuring large quantities of the pure secretion. Indeed I think that a detailed criticism of these negative results themselves, would amply justify the retention (for the present) of Bernard's view. \ The inflammation which sometimes follows these experiments on animals, may hinder the ab- sorption of fat in two ways: — either by attacking the substance of the pancreas, or by engnging the tissues of the villi themselves. % Compare p. 349., on the action of the intestinal juice. putrefaction of its animal constituent, and the acid fermentation of its vegetable por- tions; and thus far aids in its proper assimi- lation. While the constipation generally ob- served in such cases, indicates that the bile is also a stimulus to the muscular action of the bowels. The absorption of fatty matter is, however, materially influenced by the bile. So that, when this secretion is altogether diverted from its accustomed channel, its absence from the intestinal canal reduces the quantity of fat taken up here to about one-fourth of that normally absorbed. The quantity of biliary solids discharged with the faeces is but a very small fraction of that poured into the bowel ;—probably not more than J^th or x^th. And much of this may be regarded as a precipitate ; which is produced, partly by an oxidation of a small part of the biliary fats into resinous matter, and partly by the combination of the fatty acids of the bile with the lime taken in the food. The details of the assistance given by the bile to digestion, are very obscure. But as- suming the accuracy of M. Bernard's views with respect to the pancreatic function, we may conjecture, that it is the venous, rather than the lacteal absorption of fat, which is furthered by the hepatic secretion. This view agrees with the known capacity of the soda in the bile to unite with fatty acids in the form of a soap. And that separation of the neutral fats of the food into acid and base, which would probably precede such a sapo- nification, is sufficiently explained by their sojourn in the intestine at the ordinary tem- perature ; or by the direct effect of this kind which the pancreatic fluid could produce, supposing it not overpowered by the gastric juice. But Bidder and Schmidt offer the fur- ther suggestion, that even neutral fat is aided in penetrating the villus by the moistening of its surface with bile :—a view which they confirm from experiments with capillary tubes and dead animal membranes. The continuous absorption of these various alimentary principles constitutes the chief share taken by the remainder of the intestinal canal in the function of digestion. And as this absorption requires contact, too rapid a transit of the canal, or too limited an extent of digestive tube to be traversed, present much the same appearances in the food, ami produce a very similar effect on the organism. Thus the fasces expelled in intestinal fistula, on the one hand, or in diarrhoea on the other, alike exhibit a large quantity of undigested starch, protein, and fat; with unabsorbed bile and water. And the fatal exhaustion which often accompanies both of these states, is evidence of the virtual starvation which may thus be brought about. From the little change undergone by pro- tcinous substances artificially introduced into the large intestine, as well as from the com- parative development of this part of the canal in the carnivorous and herbivorous classes, we