UTERUS—(Normal Anatomy.) observed by a hand lens or a low power of the microscope. Many of the arteries down to TV" or TV" in diameter are still seen to take a remarkable corkscrew course, with numer- ous very close spirals, especially in the outer half of the sections. Beyond these the ves- sels take a straighter course, and at length, in their finer divisions, run in parallel lines, sending off minute twigs at right angles, which cross the ultimate fibres of the tissue, in the manner peculiar to muscular structure. When the finer vessels of the body of the uterus have reached the mucous membrane, they dip down between the walls of the canals, termed uterine glands, and spread out in a network of capillaries; the meshes of which surround the orifices of those canals in the manner delineated vet fig. 439. a and b.; and from these the blood is again collected by the small superficial veins, the course of which is described at p. 637. The arteries which supply the cervix pene- trate that part in a direction downwards anil inwards, pursuing the same corkscrew course until they have nearly reached the mucous surface, where they break up into finer ves- sels and capillaries, which ramify over the rugae in lines more parallel than those of the uterine body. Both the arteries and capillaries of the cervix are far less numerous than those of the body of the uterus ; and, indeed, the cervix generally in respect of its composition exhibits a lower degree of organisation than that of the principal portion of the organ, although it appears to receive the largest sup- ply of nerves. The veins of the uterus take a course cor- responding witli that of the arteries, and are distinguished by the same names. They are considerably longer and more numerous than the latter. They form along the sides of the uterus and within the folds of the broad liga- ment a very considerable plexus (the uterine plexus), which, together with the venous chan- nels or sinuses ramifying in the uterine sub- stance, are more conveniently examined in the gravid organ, where they undergo great en- largement. See figs. 444. 449. and 463., and the descriptions of these. Lymphatics. — These vessels are far more easily examined in the gravid than in the un- impregnated uterus. They are very numerous, and are divided by Cruveilhier into two orders; the superficial, which lie immediately beneath the peritoneum ; and the deep-seated, which ramify in several places in the sub- stance of the uterine walls. The lymphatics of the cervix terminate in the pelvic and sacral glands. Those of the body of the uterus, after traversing the broad ligaments and uniting with the lymphatics proceeding from the Fallopian tubes, ovaries, and round liga- ments, empty themselves in the glands situated in front of the aorta and vena cava. Nerves. — The nerves which supply the uterus are derived partly from the spinal, but principally from the sympathetic system. Ac- cording to the dissections of Dr. Snow Beck *, * Phil. Trans., 184G, part ii. p. 219; Supp. the nerves which compose the hypogastric plexus, consisting of gelatinous and tubular fibres derived from the lower part of the superior aortic plexus*, on approaching the neck of the uterus begin to separate, and on a level with the os uteri are joined by branches which accompany the superior haemorrhoidal artery. The anterior portion of the hypo- gastric plexus, alter receiving branches which accompany the iliac arteries, passes inwards by the broad ligament, arid supplies the lower half of the uterus. These nerves, w hich are continuations of the hypogastric plexus, as they approach the body of the uterus se- parate, and each pursues a different distribu- tion. They lose the plexiform character and form a number of distinct fine cords. These nerves, like all the nerves supplied to the uterus, are chiefly composed of gelatinous fibres, although some tubular fibres accom- pany them ; but they are few in number, and appear to be far from forming the essential element of the uterine nerves. The middle portion of the uterus is sup- plied by a distinct branch from the inferior aortic plexus ; which, without communicating with the hypogastric branches, passes to the upper part of the uterine body and then divides, to supply the part between the previously described branches and the Fallopian tube, sending also a branch to the ovary. The fundus is supplied sometimes by a * According to Dr. Snow Beck, the white tubular fibres which enter, pass through, and emerge from the semilunar ganglia, are all derived from cerebro- spinal nerves through the medium of the splanchnic nerve, while none of the tubular fibres actually arise from the ganglia (as Bidder and Volkmann sup- pose). The same was found to obtain in every instance of synipathetic ganglia examined; the tubular fibres coyj'd always be traced to the white connecting cord, between the spinal and sympathetic nerves, and thence to the branch of the spinal nerve from which it is derived. The gelatinous fibres, on the other hand, all take their origin in the corpuscles of the ganglia. In the white cords connecting the spinal and sympathetic nerves, commonly regarded as roots of the sympathetic, the tubular fibres com- posing these, on being traced back to the spinal cord, were found to be derived from the motor and sensitive roots in apparently equal proportions. The elements of the lower part of the superior aortic plexus resemble those which form the semilunar ganglia, viz. tubular fibres derived from the lumbar nerves, and gelatinous fibres from the sympathetic ganglia. The inferior aortic plexxis is a continuation of the branches from the plexus last described. These divide to form the two lateral hypogastric plexuses, and here a crossing of fibres of the opposite side takes place. _ The lateral hypogastric plexus is composed of gela- tinous and tubular fibres derived from the superior aortic plexus. The distribution of nerves to the uterus from this, their main source, is described in the text. The sacral nerves, although they supply the vagina, clitoris, labia, sphincter and levator aru, bladder, and rectum, send no direct branches to the uterus; nor is there, according to this author, any anatomical evidence to support the supposition which some have entertained, that filaments derived from these nerves might, by a circuitous route reach the uterus after their union with the pelvic plexus Phil. Trans., 1846, part ii. T T