PANCREAS. 105 downwards, have remarked that the act of in- The following is a tabular view of the state- spiration, and violent respiratory or struggling ments of different observers of the principal efforts, always increase the rapidity of its characters of the pancreatic secretion : flow. 1 iedomann and Gmelin. J^euret and Lassaigne. Bernard. Frerichs. Bidder and Schmidt. • General Physical Qualities. Limpid with a btue- white cast, like white of egg diluted with water, slight, hut sensibly sahne taste. Limpid with a slightly salt taste. Colourless, limpid, viscous and stringy ; odourless ; taste sa- line. Colourless, clear, s/igh/ly tenacious, without taste, or smell. Clear, colourless, viscid and ropy. Reaction. (at first slightly n„„ ) acid, after U°S \ slightly alkal- (ine. ; Sheep, slightly acid Horse, ditto. Alkaline. Always alkaline. Alkaline. Strongly alkaline. Specific Gravity. I 0026 . 1003 to 1-009 1-031 Amount secreted. At the rate of one ounce per hour in the dog. Three ounces in half an hour—horse. Normal 31 grains an hour. Morbid. 279 ditto. S80 grains in J of an hour — ass. 45 ditto in 25 min. — dog. 1£ grain every hour for every ^ IIjs. weight.—dog. Quality of Solids. Dog, 8-72 per cent. Sheep, 5-19 „ „ '9 per cent. Ass . . 1-36 Dog . 1-62 9'924 per cent. Amount of Albumen, &c. Rendered semi-solid by some of the re- agents of albumen —ring. Perfectly solid b; heat —sheep. Abundant consis- tent rlocculi on heat — horse. Slightly troubled by he reagents of albu- inen. Azotised principles soluble in alcohol and water. Absolutely the same as saliva. Entirely solid by heat, as white of egg: also the strong mi- neral acids and alco- hol. The dried precipi- tate may be re-dis solved in water. No sulphocyanid.es. Inconsiderable coa- gulation on heating. Slightly turbid on adding alcohol and nitric acid. Butter-like fatfi-026 No sulphocyanides. Alcohol coagulates it into a miky mass, which deposits thick white flakes, leaving above a strongly al- kaline solution. The dried flakes dissolve In water. Function of the pancreatic fluid.—The first indication of the importance of the pancreatic juice to the process of digestion has been as- signed to Valentin. He showed that it con- verted into sugar that portion of the amy- laceous matter that had not been acted on by the saliva and had passed unchanged into the duodenum ; and lie ascertained that both the expressed secretion and an infusion of the gland-substance exercised this transforming property in a high degree. Bouchardat and Sandras found that the pancreatic secretion of fowls and geese possessed this property, and immediately transformed starch into dex- trine and grape sugar. On raising the fluid to 100° (centigrade) it became inert ; but the flocculi precipitated, either by heat or alcohol, on being redissolved exerted an in- fluence exactly the same as the original secre- tion, and with the same power. In this albu- minous substance they recognise the material of which, under the name of diastase, they had indicated the existence in the alimentary canal of granivorous birds. They profess themselves unable to define the action of this substance compared with that of diastase. Like dias- tase it is nitrogenous; and they regard it as the principal agent in the digestion of feculent aliments. They found, moreover, that a fluid of similar properties might be obtained by macerating for a short time portions of the pancreas, finely minced, in an equal weight of water. The fluid thus prepared converted a thick starch jelly into a thin fluid, without any viscosity, in the lapse of a few minutes. By many alternate precipitations with alcohol and solutions in water, as in the operation for the purification of diastase, a flocculent pre- cipitate was obtained, which, rapidly dried, possessed a very energetic solvent power. The existence of a principle acting like dias- tase on fecula was equally demonstrated in the rabbit, the dog, ami mam* Within the last few years an additional and most important office has been claimed for the pancreas by M. Bernard j-—that, namely, of emulsifying or saponifying the neutral fatty matters contained in the food, by de- composing them into glycerine and their respective fatty acids, and so rendering them absorbable. M. Bernard bases his viesvs on two methods of proof—on experiments on the living animal, and on the secretion after its removal ; and his whole paper is charac- terised by an admirable completeness and most orderly logic. The first series of ex- periments consists in the admixture of various fatty matters — olive oil, butter, tallow, lard — with fresh pancreatic juice, alkaline, viscid, and possessing all the characters of the nor- mal secretion ; a temperature about that of the body is applied, if necessary, and the mixture agitated. In every case a smooth, creamy emulsion is at once produced. In keep- ing the products of these experiments at a temperature above 100° Fahr. for fifteen or eighteen hours, he says the emulsion was perfectly maintained ; the appearance of the white creamy liquid was quite unchanged, nor was there, although kept in perfect re- * Compt. Rend. t. 20. p. 1085. f Archives Gen. do Jle'deciiie, iv. serie, 1.19.