REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 220 transparent. Germination consists in the growing out of this membrane at one end of the spore into a many-celled filament, which escapes through a lacerated opening in the ex- ternal membranes, and gradually assumes the character, and appearance of the parent plant. At the same time a tubular elongation of the same membrane of limited growth is formed in the opposite direction, which is the rudi- ment of a root.* 18. In a species of Palmelleas (Palmoglea macrococca) in which the whole individual consists of a single ovoid cell containing green granular matter, and usually multiplying itself by successive division, the phenomena of con- jugation present themselves in a somewhat different and very remarkable form. Here two cells, probably the result of a series of divisions, undergo a complete union, affecting not only their contents, but also their mem- branes. They coalesce as completely at their points of contact, as two contiguous drops of water, the result of their union being a cell which differs in no"respect from its predeces- sors, except in the greater thickness of its walls, and in the complete conversion of the chlorophylle of its contents into oily globules. Like the spore of the Zygnemaceae, it is des- tined to a long period of inactivity, after which, by the successive division of its con- tents, it gives rise to a new series of individuals, similar to those that preceded it. 19. We have still to consider the most remark- able condition under which conjugation takes place among the Algae. The evolution of the aggregate zoospore of Vaucheria has been already described. In the plant which results from its germination, Karsten has observed that along the course of those filaments which come in contact with the atmosphere are formed organs of a peculiar structure. They originate like the ordinary branches, as nipple- shaped buddings out of the cell-wall, which are distributed in pairs along the whole course of the older filaments. In every pair of organs, one elongates so as to form a closed Fig. 137. A portion of the tubular frond of Conferva fontinalis, showing the arrangement of the sexual repro- ductive organs. About 30 diarn, (Karsten.) tube, which curves round into a spiral form, like the leaves of a Pilularia, while its fellow soon ceases to grow in length, but swells out into a globular or oval form, about three times as wide as the other. At first both contain chlorophylle, which, in the tubular organ, is soon replaced by colourless globules. In the meantime its fellow, which resembles a dark- green-coloured globe, supported on a short pedicle, alters in form, its cell-wall extending into a nipple-shaped projection on the side next the tubular organ, with which it finally comes in contact. This condition lasts for some time, but it does not appear determined Fig. 138. A single group more highly magnified, about 200 diam- Two of the egg-shaped organs which contain the germs are represented; one of which is in con- tact, by its smaller end, with the tubular organ which occupies the centre. (Karsten.) with sufficient distinctness by Karsten's obser- vations, that an actual interchange of the * Vaucher, Conferves d'Eau douce, p. 46 ; Pring- sheim, Annals of Nat. Hist. June, 1853. (Trans, by Mr. Henfrey.) contents takes place. All that we learn as certain is, that after the completion of what he calls the act of fructification, a newly formed cell appears in the cavity of the globular organ, which shortly after separates from the mother plant. In this instance, as in those above described, conjugation is pre- ceded by the conversion of the green gra- nular contents of the conjugating cells into oil globules. The germ thus produced re- tains its power of development for several months, and gives rise to a new plant re- sembling its parent in structure.* 20. In Saprolegnia, which is morphologically so closely related to Vaucheria, and like it, in its earliest state of existence, produces zoospores, we obtain, by the germination of these zoospores, plants which produce repro- ductive organs of an entirely different cha- racter. These, when completely formed, consist of spheroidal cells, each supported on a cylindrical pedicle. Each contains in its interior a number of round spores (from five * Karsten, Die Fortpflanzung der Conferva fon- tinalis. (Bot. Zeit. 1852, 6 Stuck.) The process of which the details have been so well described in the above memoir, was known to Vaucher, and is mentioned by him in his " Histoire des Conferves d'Eau douce" (p. 17.). See also Naegeli (Vergl. Algensyst. p. 175.) ; Hassall (British Fresh- water Algae, vol. i. p. 175.); and Thuret (Annales des Sc. Nat. 2nd Ser. 1843), who gives a figure illus- trative of the conjugation of Vaucheria hamata. In V. pohjsperma, a species described and figured by Hassall (?. c. PI. iv. f. 6.), the spore-bearing organs are very much more numerous than the curved tubular organs, a fact for the explanation of which observations are as yet wanting.