C15 FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Abnormal Anatomy). organs are perfectly formed it is exceedingly rare to find a deficiency of the oviduct. The oviduct may be deficient either upon one or both sides. Heusinger * has recorded an example of deficiency of the ovary and Fallopian tube of one side. Chaussier j- met with a remarkable ex- ample of a woman who, notwithstanding the absence of one ovary and tube, and even of one side of the uterus, bore ten living children ; and whose death shortly after her last con- finement afforded him the opportunity of ascertaining this peculiar condition of the parts. After the observations which have been made regarding the function of the Fallopian tube, it is hardly necessary to observe here that deficiency of both tubes will be neces- sarily productive of permanent sterility ; al- though absence of the tube of one side, as in the case of Chaussier, just quoted, need not entail any such consequence. Unusual shortness of the tube and the absence of the fimbriae have been also ac- counted as causes of sterility; but the former, if associated with a very short ligamentum ovarii, would have no such effect, and could be only accounted a relative deformity when the ovary is placed at an unusual distance from the uterus, so as to be beyond the grasp of the infundibulum ; while the latter pecu- liarity, as already shown, may be merely the result of age. Peculiarities of Construction. — Several Pa- vilions on the same Tube. — M. Richard, to whose researches regarding the Fallopian tube reference has been already made, has pointed out a previously unobserved condition of this part. In examining the appendages of the uterus in thirty women, he met with no less than five examples of this singular formation, which he thus describes : " At a distance varying from several millime- tres to 2 or 3 centimetres behind the normal pavilion, are observed upon the course of the tube one or more accessory pavilions, formed like that which terminates the oviduct, of a mucous membrane divided into fimbria?. When the fringes of this pavilion are floated under water, they are observed to be pierced by an aperture leading into the canal of the tube; and a probe introduced into this orifice may be made to escape either by the ostium abdominale, or by the ostium uterinum, ac- cording to the direction in which it is passed. Thus, then, the canal of the tube can, in certain cases, open into the cavity of the peritoneum by several distinct orifices." The first of M. Richard's cases occurred in an adult, and is represented in fig. 408. " There is a normal pavilion of somewhat irregular form, and below it, at several milli- metres distance, a small opening, surrounded by two small fringes, covered on their inner sur- face by mucous membrane ; while the serous membrane terminates abruptly on their outer surface as in the true pavilion. A probe introduced escapes by one or other orifice indiscriminately." The second example (fig. 418.) occurred in a foetus at term. The tube of the left side terminates in a single pavilion, but that of the right, besides its terminal pavilion, ex- hibits also two little secondary pavilions, com- municating each by a special orifice with the canal of the tube. But the most interesting example is that shown in fig. 419. from a woman who aborted Fig. 419. Extremity of Fallopian tube (human) having two pavilions. (After Richard.') a a, fimbria; of the terminal or normal pavilion, exhibit ing an unusual richness of folds; b b, accessory pavilion in the side of the tube, having two distinct orifices separated by a valvular fold; cc, a bristle introduced at the terminal pavilion escapes by one of these lateral orifices, but cannot be made to pass out by the other, or to enter the uterus on account of the valve; dd, a second bristle introduced from the lower end of the tube escapes by the other orifice of the accessory pavilion, but cannot be made to pene- trate as far as the terminal infundibulum. * Heusinger's Zeitscbrift fur die organische Phy- at the sixth month. The terminal pavilion, sick, II. 2. , „T ., -r, represented hereof the natural size, exhibits t Busch. Das Geschlechtsleben des Weibes, B. a richness 0f fringes and folds rarely seen. 1 V. p. o'lo. J R R 4