74 OVUM. rally received this name in the fowl's egg, and which I have hitherto regarded as corre- sponding with the immediate membranous in- vestment of the yolk (zona pellucida) in mammalia, and in all animals, constitutes, both in the mature ovarian yolk and in the laid egg, an entire thin transparent covering of the yolk substance, without any aperture that has been discovered in it at any time ; delicate and easily torn, but yet of such con- sistence that under water any portion of it may easily be removed and examined. In the egg which has passed through the oviduct, the vi- telline membrane floats free from the cicatri- cula and surface of the yolk substance ; but, so long as it remains in the ovarian capsule, these parts ^cohere somewhat together; so that, in general, on removing a part of the yolk membrane, a more or less complete lining of the nucleated or outermost layer of yolk cells comes away with it. The microscopic exami- nation of this membrane in the fully formed yolk does not, as already stated, show any very distinct structure beyond an obscure fi- brillar and molecular marking, of such fineness, indeed, as to require a high magnifying power (500 to COO diameters) to bring it into view ; and in many parts the membrane appears per- fectly homogeneous. In the earlier stages of the yolk's growth, however, we shall see that this membrane is not to be distinguished from the layer of closely set nucleated cells, the outer- most part of which appears to become fused together into the membrane as the yolks ad- vance to maturity (see fig. 53, K imi). We shall presently see that the vesicular envelope which is generally termed the yolk membrane in the bird's egg, and in the ova of all animals pos- sessing the large yolks, is probably a different structure from the perfectly homogeneous ve- sicle which in many other animals arises at a much earlier period of the growth of the ovule, and remains in them as the external covering of the yolk to the end. Early condition and first formation of the ovarian ovum in birds. — It has already been stated that the ovula exist at a very early period of life in the female bird ; constituting in their earliest undeveloped condition minute cells closely surrounded by the simple vesi- cular capsules and the solid substance of the ovary, which at £this period has not lost its primitive compact form. As the bird ap- proaches maturity, a considerable number of the ovula situated nearest the surface in- creasing in size make an advance in their structure by undergoing certain changes which will immediately be more particularly adverted to. Having attained various sizes from ^ to a of an inch, they project slightly as rounded bodies from the surface of the ovary, and remain in this condition till the approach of the breeding season, when some of them destined to reach their full state of develop- ment, are at last discharged from their ovarian capsules. A much greater number, however, must remain in the undeveloped condition, awaiting future seasons of evolution ; and a very considerable proportion of the whole germs of the ovary rather pass through a retrograde process and gradually disappear without having attained to any considerable size. Of the smaller or undeveloped ova, such as those of less than ^ of an inch in dia- meter, some are of a dull whitish or milky colour, the deeper-coloured external yolk substance not having been yet formed, and the yolk substance consisting almost entirely of small spherules or globules, not of true cells or of the granular corpuscles which appear at a later stage. Those between -J- and £ of an inch are for the most part of a lighter yellow than the larger ovula; but above the latter size the colour has attained nearly its full in- tensity from the deposit externally of the deep-coloured yolk substance. In all the ovula above T^ of an inch it is easy to see the germinal vesicle situated on the surface of the yolk, when the capsule is opened, embedded in a more opaque and compact layer of substance which repre- sents the discus proligerus, extending at this period nearly over the whole surface of the yolk. But in those less than Jy or A. of an inch, the vesicle is not to be seen on the surface. On carefully opening or breaking up the substance of the yolk, the vesicle is easily found in the softer internal substance which flows out from the centre. From the central part of the small ovule, the vesicle appears gradually to pass outwards towards a deter- minate part of the surface, making its way through the' proligerous layer or primitive yolk granules ; and thus, in examining ovula at this stage, I have been able to perceive occasionally that the vesicle was situated ,in a more or less deep depression on the inner surface of that layer, which therefore must be perforated, as it were, by the vesicle in its passage towards the surface. The sub- stance of the disc afterwards collects round the vesicle internally, and is accumulated in greater quantity (cumulus) in that situation. This change of place of the germinal vesicle from the centre or interior to the surface of the yolk in the progress of development of the ovula occurs in some degree throughout the animal kingdom ; but it is especially re- markable in the eggs of birds and other animals with large yolks, in consequence of the peculiar connection of the vesicle with the proligerous disc. In the batrachia also, the change is very obvious, and the progress of the vesicle outwards has been well described by Von Baer and others. In this latter class of animals the proligerous layer covers a much greater part, or indeed in most of them nearly the whole of the yolk ; but the germinal vesicle occupies always a determinate place in the centre of the layer ; showing that the development of the various parts of the ovum proceeds from the first with a fixed relation of position between the germinal ve- sicle and other parts. In birds, as in all other animals, the ger- minal vesicle, which we shall see is the fun- damental part of the ovum, is proportion- ally large in the earlier stage of growth of the ovule, being at the first from a fourth to a