STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 301 In the Batrach'mn division, however, the separation into these two segments is some- times absent. While sometimes, as in the Toad and Frog, there is a distinct large intestine, into which the smaller portion opens laterally, so as to form a cascum. In the former of these two genera there is no valve. In the Ophidian the two portions are generally distinct and short. But their relative extent varies considerably : the small intes- tine being sometimes lengthened, and often presenting a very peculiar appearance in the shortness of its mesentery and the closeness of its folds. The indistinct ilio-csecal valve is chiefly marked by a change in the diameter of the tube. The large intestine is often sub- divided into distinct portions by one or two transverse valves. In the Chelonia the intestine is longer and much more muscular. There is generally an ilio-csecal valve, and often a well-marked cascum. The valve is also present in most of the Sauria. But in the Crocodile the caa- cum is absent. Birds.—In this class, the stomach is general!}' complex; being separated into three distinct cavities, which differ greatly in their form, structure, and office. The (esophagus, which leads to the first of those cavities, has a length corresponding to that of the neck which it occupies. Its width and dilatability mainly depend on the nature and form of the food. Thus, in some of the birds of prey, or those which swallow large fish entire, it is very lax and dilatable. And in this respect, as well as in the direct con- tinuity of its cavity with that of the stomach, it offers a great similarity to the gullet of the Ophidian reptiles and many fishes. Its mucous membrane is follicular, and folded longitudinally. The ingluvies, or crop, is a dilatation of the oesophagus, somewhere about the middle of its length. In some of the smaller Rap- tores it is but small ; in the larger and more voracious it is a considerable enlargement, that affects one side of the tube more than the other ; in the Gallinaceans it is a distinct sac, appended to the canal by a narrower neck ; and, finally, in the Pigeons, it attains its maximum size, and becomes double. Its muscular and mucous membrane are similar to those of the oesophagus. The food which it contains undergoes a kind of insalivation and maceration. And the highly-developed form of crop, which is seen in the Pigeon, pours out a milky fluid during that period of the year in which this bird feeds its young by regurgitation. At this time its mucous membrane also acquires a thicker and more glandular character. The proper stomach, or proventrictt/us, com- municates with the inferior part of the oeso- phagus, and corresponds, both in structure and function, with the true stomach of the Mam- malia. The glandular tubes which open on its free surface secrete a fluid that possesses all the properties of gastric juice. In the degree of complication these glands differ considerably ; varying from simple tubes in the carnivorous birds, to tubes that open between prominences and prolongations, and finally form primary and secondary branches. The shape and size of this organ are subject to great variety in different genera. In those that swallow a large prey, it is wide and straight, like the stomach of the Serpent. In others, it ap- proaches the spherical form, or passes towards the right side to join the gizzard. The com- parative size of these two organs also varies considerably. The gizzard is a flattened ovoid of highly muscular texture. It is lined by a dense horny cuticle, and contains sand, gravel, or other hard inorganized matters, which are the passive agents in the trituration of the food. Its size varies greatly. Its apertures both occupy the upper part of the organ, so that its cavity terminates below in a blind ex- tremity. Its walls contain a variable amount of muscle, the arrangement of which is usually that of the radiation of fibres from a central tendon, such as was previously noticed in speaking of the Cephalopoda. Its epithelium is hardest in the granivorous birds. And even in the same individual, it offers an increased density at the precise situations of most pressure. In like manner, Hunter noticed that a thickening, both of cuticle and muscle, was produced by feeding a Sea-gull upon grain. The pyloric valve is, as a rule, well marked. In some species there is a small supplementary cavity, which immediately precedes it, and receives the orifice of the gizzard. The intestine has a length about midway between that of the Reptilian and Mammalian bowel. But although longer than in either of the preceding classes, it retains considerable simplicity of form. It presents, however, much variety, both in its length and in the number and appearance of its convolutions ;— differences which, as usual, are related (though not very closely) to the food and habits of the animal. The duodenum which immediately follows the pylorus has the form of a long loop or fold, the concavity of which includes the pancreas. The small intestine, more or less folded, terminates in a large intestine, the commencement of which receives two cascal tubes, one on each side. These caaea offer remarkable differences in length:—varying from papilliform offsets, as in the Solan-goose, to processes three feet long, as in the Grouse. Sometimes only one is present. The short and straight large intestine is continued from the termination of the small intestine, without any distinct valve, to end in a cloaca com- mon to the digestive, urinary, and generative organs. Connected with the small intestine is an appendage, supposed to be a relic of the duct of communication between the yolk bag and intestine of the chick. It is de- void of a muscular tunic, and in some birds equals or exceeds the size of the caeca them- selves., Mammalia.—The form, length, anil arrange- ment of the alimentary canal vary so much in the different orders of Mammalia, that it