STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 313 mucous membrane gently close upon it, and gradually diffuse it over the whole surface.* c. The ordinary state of the human stomach during the digestive act lies between these two extremes; and may be defined as one of moderate distention, with food which has been subdivided by mastication, and diluted with saliva and gastric juice, so as to possess a pulpy or semi-fluid consistence. In attempting to imitate this condition in the Dog, I have found it best to choose an aliment which already possesses a pultaceous or semi-liquid consistence,—such as a thick soup,— and to administer it in large, but not excessive quantity. On pithing the animal a quarter of an hour afterwards, the following movements are seen. The most noticeable is a peristalsis or transverse constriction, which sets out from the cardiac extremity, and tra- vels slowly towards the pylorus. It is com- paratively feeble until it reaches the junction of the pyloric two-fifths, and the cardiac three- fifths of the organ. Here it suddenly becomes much more distinct; and from hence continues rapidly forwards, as a well-marked circular depression, until it reaches the pylorus. Hav- ing arrived there, an interval of relaxation suc- ceeds, and is followed by the recurrence of a similar contraction. As nearly as can be judged, the average period of relaxation is about one minute, and the contraction itself occupies nearly the same time. Cotempora- neous with this contraction there is a cer- tain amount of longitudinal shortening of the organ. The pyloric orifice is always firmly shut. In the interior of the human stomach, Dr. Beaumont could only verify an alternate con- traction and relaxation ; a vermicular action of the transverse fibres, and a shortening pro- duced by the longitudinal coat. The exact details of this occurrence he could not follow. He also noticed a constant agitation of the organ produced by the respiratory muscles.")" But Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman J have men- tioned a case, in which the vermicular actions of a distended stomach were distinctly seen through the wall of the belly during life. So far as this imperfect evidence goes, it is evidently favourable to the view, that the muscular contraction of the human stomach during this stage of digestion is similar to that seen in the newly-killed animal. It is therefore our next object to inquire — (1) What arc the movements which such a peristalsis would necessarily impress upon the food '? And (2) how far do they correspond with those which have been actually ob- served ? (1.) The effect of peristalsis in a closed and * Condenseil, in Dr. Beaumont's own words, from pp. 62, 63. 96, 97, of his work. This activity of the rugaj themselves may remind us of their inherent muscularity (see p. 325. of this article). f Probably much exaggerated, if not chiefly pro- duced, by the adhesion of St. Martin's stomach to the wall of his chest. % Todd and Bowman's Physiological Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 196. distended tube may be represented by an in- flexible hollow cylinder, filled with liquid, and accurately fitted with a perforated septum {b, fig. 244.), which is capable of free movement along its interior. Let such a septum be moved in either direction, and it at once exerts a pres- sure on the body of liquid (c) contained in that end (a) towards which its motion sets. The pressure being equal in all directions, a portion of the fluid escapes backwards through its aperture (rf). This retrograde course is, pro tanto, a current ; and one which will be continually lengthened by the advance of the septum along the remainder of the tube. And the slow successive movement of a series of such septa would establish two con- tinuous currents in the liquid; a peripheral of advance, and a central of return.* Fig. 244. Diagram to illustrate the effects of peristalsis in a closed tithe containing liquid. a, Closed end of the tube ; b, perforated septum, moved towards a, and causing the peripheral cur- rents indicated by the arrows, in the same direction ; c, quiescent mass of liquid, giving origin to d; d, central current, prolonged from the corresponding arrow, and passing through the perforated septum. The existence of two such currents would be little affected by the membranous nature or peculiar shape of the human stomach. Even comparative inactivity of the cardiac pouch would not prevent their occurrence, as a consequence of pyloric peristalsis. While very moderate contractions of this sluggish part would accurately define the axis and its cur- * The following description so well supplies the interval between such a model tube and the human stomach, that I cannot refrain from quoting it. " The muscular action of a fish's stomach consists of vermicular contractions, creeping slowly in continu- ous succession from the cardia to the pylorus, and impressing a twofold gyratory motion on the con- tents ; so that, while some portions are proceeding to the pylorus, others are returning towards the cardia." (Owen'sHunterianLectures,vol,ii. p. 236.).