312 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. stomach.* This condition remains for some instants. And when the alimentary holus has in this manner been impelled into the organ, it excites muscular movements. The exact condition of the cardia during stomach digestion is scarcely known. It is obvious that the force with which it is shut must be effectively superior to the pressure exerted on the contents of the organ by the gastric contractions. Still we are igno- rant how much of this force is due to the contraction of the lower oesophageal fibres, and how much to the shape, position, or structure of the stomach itself. Indeed, one cannot help conjecturing, that the de- cussation of the transverse and oblique fibres of the organ around the insertion of the oesophagus, might render their contractions a material assistance to the obliteration of the lower part of this tube. From the ob- servations of Magendief, it would seem that, during digestion, the cardia contracts tightly around a finger introduced from the stomach ; and that the distention of the gastric cavity appears to regulate the intensity and duration of this closure,—so much so, that pressure by the hands, or by the diaphragm during inspiration, produces an increase of contrac- tion. % And the disappearance of this efficient closure in the dead, or even in the exhausted $ animal, suffices to show,— what indeed we might gather from its great energy, — that it is not due to mere passive contractility. Hence, on the whole, it appears preferable to regard the cardiac orifice as closed by an active muscular contraction, which is itself excited by the direct stimulus of the food that distends the stomach. Perhaps there are few more difficult parts of our inquiry than that which relates to the precise nature of those movements which are executed by the stomach, and impressed upon the food, during its sojourn in this cavity. For the vivisection of animals has given few results ; and even had they been more marked, they would scarcely have been trustworthy. The human corpse is generally diseased, or, if not, the interval after death which precedes an ex- amination of its abdominal viscera is suffi- cient to remove all appearances of activity. * Beaumont (Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Juice. Combe's Edition. 1808), pp. 62, 63., and elsewhere. Valentin, Lehrbuch der Phy- siologic, Band i. p. 269. Magendie, Precis ele'- mentaire de Physiologie: Quatrieme Edition, vol. ii. p. 70. | Op. cit. pp. 81, 82. % Magendie (foe. cit.) and Mueller (Handbuch der Physiologie, Bd. i. p. 412) state that an alter- nating and rhythmical movement of the oesophagus accompanies digestion. It is independent of deglu- tition. The contraction of the tube coincides with the period of inspiration ; and, vice versa, its relaxa- tion with expiration. But such results of vivisection cannot be safely regarded as the ordinary pheno- mena of the healthy body. As to how far the cardia is necessarily closed by the diaphragm in the act of inspiration, I may refer to the note to p. 309.: —to which I will only add, that any one may satis- factorily disprove its real occlusion by swallowing a bolus of food at this period. § Magendie, he. cit. And, finally, the results obtained from newly- killed animals on the one hand, and from Dr. Beaumont's valuable case on the other, are apparently so indefinite, or even so conflicting, that most physiologists seem content to leave the question in abeyance, until more numerous or more comparable facts afford better grounds for a decision. A careful comparison of such results has, however, led the author to adopt the follow- ing views *, which appear to unite in one theory most of the facts hitherto ascertained respecting the muscular action of the healthy digesting stomach. 1. In the fasting state the empty stomach offers no movement whatever. This fact, which is asserted by Dr. Beaumontf, from his obser- vations on the living human subject, may be readily verified by laying open the bellies of the domestic mammalia immediately after death. Some very slight and gradual changes in the shape of the organ, which I have once or twice noticed, form no valid exception to such a rule. This agreement in the above two classes of results is not only interesting in itself, but entitles us to lay somewhat more stress on that which follows. And it is especially useful, in that it frees us from the apprehension that any contractions which we may observe can be caused, or even greatly modified, by the air J to which the dead animal's stomach is ex- posed. 2. At the commencement of digestion, or immediately after the deglutition of food, the movement of the stomach offers three varieties. a. In some animals, a large quantity of food is often hastily swallowed, after scarcely any sub- division, far less mastication. Under these circumstances, the stomach is found closely contracted around its hard contents, some- times even adapting its shape to that of these unyielding masses. And, as might be ex- pected, no motion is discernible.^ b. Dr. Beaumont narrates the opposite ef- fect of a very small quantity of liquid food in the human subject. It excites a vermicular action, a gentle contraction or grasping motion of the stomach, so that the wrinkles of the * These will he found in an Essay which, writ- ten in 1847, was published in the " Medical Gazette " for 1849. f Beaumont, at p. 105. expressly; at pp. 23. 57., by implication. % Though, by the bye, as this would chiefly cause irregular motions, it would rather oppose, than pro- duce, any uniform and constant movement. The effect of air on the intestine is alluded to hereafter. § This condition, which is frequent in the domestic Carnivora, appears to be usual in the Rabbit, in whom it is often kept up by the comparatively unyielding nature of the food. In such a case the contents of the stomach are dissolved, as it were, from without inwards, in successive strata; which are slowly and constantly stripped off by the muscular action, and squeezed through the pylorus. In all these instances I have found the movements of the organ much less marked than where the food was present in a smaller quantity and a state of greater subdivision. And in the Rabbit, both the stomach and intestine appear to be unusually sluggish; as shown by the feeble movements of the former during digestion, and of the latter under the magneto-electric stimulus.