510 RUMINANTIA. vated posteriorly in Bovidas (c, fig. 327.) and prolonged toward the occipital crest, in the formation of which they apparently con- tribute,—a circumstance giving rise to the peculiar physiognomy characteristic of the group. The osseous protuberances support- ing the horns, of which we shall speak more particularly when describing the latter in detail, take their origin in most cases from the frontal bones. In the Giraffe the slight eminences analogous to the osseous cores are partly formed by the parietal bone, the coronal suture passing directly through the centre from side to side (fig. 328.) ; the an- Fig. 328. Front view of the skull of a Giraffe. (From a spe- cimen in Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) terior or central eminence, situated imme- diately behind the nasals, and in part formed by them, differs in no respect, save as regards its position, from the other two, the elevation in all instances being produced by the expan- sion of the cranial sinuses beneath. There is a single large supra-orbital canal, having its superior outlet midway between the upper border of the orbit and the central frontal eminence (fig. 328.). In Cervidae generally, the canal opens at the upper surface by a longitudinal furrow (fig. 329.), but this is more particularly marked in Bovidae ( fig. 333.). In regard to the cranial sutures in Cervidae, M. F. Cuvier observes that "all those por- tions, such as the second half of the frontal, the greater part of the coronal, and the occi- pital or lambdoidal, which surrouud the base of the core, exhibit an excessive multiplication of interlineations, because the weight of the horns and the shocks to which the parts are exposed require that the bones should be firmly connected " (fig. 329).* The sphenoid (12) articulates, except in Bovidae, with all the cranial bones; but its orbitar wing, which is largely developed, is concealed in great measure within the cere- bral cavity, and covered by the lateral expan- sions of the frontal bones. In the Camelidae the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid are directed vertically downwards and terminate in two laminae, the external one being longer and larger than the internal: the latter pro- cess only makes its appearance very low down, and is so closely applied to the ex- ternal lamina, as to leave scarcely any trace of a pterygoid fossa ; neither is there any space between it and the wing of the palatine bone. In this family the spheno-orbitar fissures and the spheno-palatine foramina are of great size. The optic canals are only separated from the former by a thin osseous partition, and the openings for the passage of the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves are rounded and placed far back The Cervida? have the posterior division of the sphenoid developed into an extremely attenuated and short tem- poral wing, which, nevertheless, is articulated to the parietal, the lateral processes reaching very far forward. The orbitar wing of the sphenoid in the same family separates into two divisions, one extending upwards and back- wards, and also uniting with the parietal, the other being prolonged horizontally forward, between the frontal and palatine bones, and terminating anteriorly at the border of an opening which corresponds to the spheno- palatine foramen. In the Giraffe the temporal wing of the sphenoid is short and connected by a well-marked suture to the T-shaped process of the narrow lateral expansion of the parietal ; it approaches very closely, but is not united to the orbitar plate of the frontal as has been conjectured. In the work last alluded to in the foot-note it is stated that the frontal and sphenoid bones are united at an early period, rendering it difficult to make out their limits. In the cranium of a Giraffe about two years old, and at present in our possession, the sutures involved in the union of the above-mentioned osseous segments, fortunately yet remain distinct, and in this individual the orbitar wings of the sphenoid do not divide into two lamina?, as seen in the Stags, but at the floor of each orbit they form a broad, short, and triangular fan-shaped plate, the centre of which is pierced by the bole for the passage of the optic nerve. The spheno-orbitar apertures are round and of enormous size in the Giraffe: in the Stags the spheno-palatine foramina are also large ; and this is more especially the case in Camelo- pardalis, where they lie concealed behind the molar prominences. In the genus Moschus the anterior sphenoid is largely developed, and its wings form the greater part of the posterior wall of the orbits. The body of * Cuvier, Lecons d'Anat. Comp., 2de edit. torn. ii. p. 366.