UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. C80 tends not only through the cervix, but even * See p. 697. alescence of the two halves approaches to the external orifice, the more obtuse will be the angle at which their junction takes place, and the more extensive will be the fissure (Jig. 4(51.). On the other hand the higher the point of union, the more acute will be their angle. This becomes obvious in the lesser degrees of deformity represented in JigsA62. and 463. In Jig. 462., although the commissure is placed at a higher point than in Jig. 461., so as to be much further removed from the external os, there is still a considerable separation of the two cornua, and their direction is still mainly horizontal ; but in Jig. 463., where a more per- fect coalescence of the two halves has taken Fig. 463. Tlie cornua more completely united externally, and the two halves becoming more nearly parallel. (Ad Nat.) The body is still divided by an internal septum which descends from the commissure as far as the commencement of the cervix, where it ends in a thin falciform edge. place, and, consequently, where the com- missure approaches nearer to the points of attachment of the Fallopian tubes and round ligaments, the angle has become so much smaller, that the two halves begin to lie nearly parallel with one another, and the horns, or ununited portions, exhibit only a slight di- vergence. In this, as well as in the following group of malformations, there often proceeds from the commissure an internal septum which descends to a variable depth, and exercises a corresj ond- ing influence upon the separation of the two halves. In cases where the commissure representing the fundus lies very low, there may be no septum, and a single cervix con- ducts into two uterine halves which lie right and left of it. In cases where the fundus is higher, if the septum extends downwards only in a slight degree, as in Jigs. 462. and 464., the cervix is still common to both sides of the uterus. Where the septum begins to divide the cervix, as in/%. 463., the separation of the two uterine halves is more complete, but there is still a common os externum, leading to the two canals. The highest de- gree of division, and consequently lowest type of structure, is that in which the septum ex- to the extremity of the vagina, dividing the latter, Jig. 461., together with the hymen in the virgin state, so that there are two com- plete canals leading to corresponding uterine halves. Group IV. In this group the external form of the uterus differs but little from the normal character. The breadth of the organ, especially between the points of entrance of the Fallopian tubes, is usually greater, and the fundus, though arched, is more shallow than usual. Here also a slight notch, extending into a shallow furrow, running along the posterior uterine wall, may indicate the seat of that in- ternal vertical septum which more or less completely divides the uterine cavity into two halves, and constitutes the uterus bilocularis (Jig. 464.). Fig. 464. The body of the uterus showing only a slight indenta- tion externally. (After Busch.~) An internal septum c, divides it into two loculi, a and b. The cervix, d, is single. The extent of this septum, and conse- quently the more or less perfect formation of two separate loculi, exhibits the same varieties as in the former group. The par- tition may stop short at the cervix, or ex- tend in rare cases completely through that canal, and even divide the vagina. Where the septum is rudimental, and extends only to the cervix, the lower free border is usually thin and falciform (Jig. 463.), having its concavity directed forwards, the lower extremity being that which is connected with the posterior uterine wall. These several deviations from the normal form of the uterus will more or less in- fluence the manner of performance of all its functions. The acts of menstruation and insemination are those perhaps which are the least dis- turbed. Regarding this former function, wherever the ovaries are perfect and a chan- nel exists for the menstrual fluid, as, for in- stance, in the one-horned uterus, the external escape wdl occur as usual ; but in the case of atresia of the vagina, and in those examples of a hollow rudimental uterus, the menstrual blood collects, and distending the closed sac forms there a hsematometra.* Where the parts representing the uterus are entirely solid,