SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 438 man and other mammalia, is proved by the observations of Schroeder van der Kolk in Fig. 287. a. Spinal ganglion from the Ray. (40 diam.) b. Portion of the same more separated. regard to the cervical ganglia of man, as men- tioned by Bonders and Harting. Schaff'ner also describes a bipolar cell in the ganglion Gasseri of the sheep ; and similar cells have been observed by Corti* and Pappenheim in the acoustic nerve of the pig, and by Frey in the Gasserian ganglion of the cat. In the common trunk of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves in the middle of the neck, in the young calf, oval cells maybe seen which have distinctly attached at their peripherical extremity a nerve-fibre ; and some of them also appear to be connected with one at the opposite or central extremity. The different cells composing a ganglion are each surrounded by a more or less clear, homo- geneous substance, in which are contained a number of round or oval nuclei. These are seen to form a single or double row around the margin of the ganglionic vesicle, their long axis being directed in the axis of the cir- cumference of the cell (Jig. 288.). They are also seen upon the surface of the corpuscle (c, fig. 288.). This substance not unfrequently presents a more or less fibrous aspect, as if composed of spindle-shaped corpuscles. It re- sembles much (as has been already stated) the fibres of Remak. The nuclei measure from the T^rVn-th to the , „'„ „th of an inch in breadth, and about _TJir5.th to ysVn-th of an inch in length. The structure in question is closely connected * Kolliker's Mikroskopische Anatomie, band ii. )\. 519. with the walls of the included ganglionic cor- puscle, and appears to hold much the same Fig. 288, From the gastric ganglion of the Ray, shewing ganglionic corpuscles embedded in a nucleated fibrous tissue. relation to it that the fibres of Remak hold to the nerve-tubes. It has been termed the capsule of the ganglionic corpuscle. The cap- sules surrounding the different ganglionic cor- puscles are also closely united to each other, so as to form a kind of framework, in the loculi of which the ganglionic corpuscles are placed (Jig.288.). It would appear also to be prolonged along the nerve-tubes connected with the gan- glionic corpuscles for some distance, forming for them an investment or sheath similar to that which it forms for the corpuscles them- selves. The quantity of this substance which is present varies in different circumstances. It appears to be more abundant in some cases than in others, and is commonly more so in the sympathetic ganglia than in those on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. As regards the arrangement of the nerve- fibres in the ganglia, when one of the enter- ing branches in the ganglia of small animals, such as the mouse, is traced into the point at which it joins the ganglion, it is found to spread out somewhat, and soon breaks up into its component fibres. These separate from one another, running amongst the gan- glionic corpuscles, either singly or in bundles of two, three, or more. The nerve-fibres be- longing to one bundle leave it and join neigh- bouring bundles, so that a more or less com- plete interchange of the fibres contained in the different bundles takes place; and at the same time there is formed a sort of plexus or network, in the meshes of which the ganglionic corpuscles are imbedded (Jig. 287.). Some- times, as Valentin observed, one or more of the fibres of one of the entering bundles are seen to wind round the ganglionic corpuscles, and appear again to pass into another entering bundle, thus pursuing apparently a retrograde course. The fibres which thus surround the ganglionic vesicles were termed by Valentin umspinnende fasern ; whether they again really leave the ganglion in the direction in which they entered it, and in this way may be regarded as terminating in a looped arrange-