STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 350 laries of the neighbouring villi. And the venous radiclesof these latter processes usually unite with the branches formed by their con- Fig. 258. Capillaries occupying the surface of the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine; as seen on examining an injected specimen by reflected light, with a mag- nifying power of about 50 diameters. a, b, capillaries around the orifices of the intes- tinal tubes. At a their meshes are more numerous and complex than at b, where they are almost re- duced to single capillaries; c, calibre or cavity of the intestinal tube. flux in a small vein ; that sinks vertically through the mucous membrane, to join the sub-mucous plexus which gives origin to the portal vein. Villi. — The interior of almost all the small intestine presents to the naked eye a texture very like that of velvet. For it is soft and shaggy: yields readily to pressure : and, on close examination, is evidently composed of innumerable short filaments, which are placed more or less vertically to the general inner sur- face of the tube. These filaments, — the dense arrangement of which on a common surface causes this general velvety appearance,— are thence usually named villi. Their form, and their situation, or office, might also be denoted by the name of intestinal or chyliferous jmpillce. We have seen that, in the stomach, the con- fluent ridges intervening between the tubes are here and there raised into slight projec- tions. These are rendered more prominent by artificial injection of the subjacent vessels, or even by that afflux of blood which ordi- narily attends the digestive act. In the pylo- ric extremity of the organ, these projections become more distinct. And just at its termi- nation, some of them often assume the form of bluntly triangular and flattened folds. In the upper part of the duodenum, the villi begin; by processes which somewhat resemble the gastric elevations just alluded to, and occupy an analogous situation with respect to the intestinal tubes. At first, they may be described as flattened folds, the out- line of which is a very obtuse triangle, that has a broad base about four or five times its height (T£oth of an inch). In the lower part of the duodenum, this rudimentary form for the most part disappears ; and the villi, which are still more or less flattened, have about twice the length, and half the width, of those present in the- upper part. But it is in the upper part of the jejunum that they attain their greatest number; being placed so closely together that their interstices scarcely Fig. 259. Villus from the upper part of the jejunum, as seen in the fasting state. Magnified 140 diameters. a, epithelium of the villus; b, parenchyma or sub- stance of the same. equal their own bulk. Here they also acquire their maximum length, which ranges from about ¥Lth to J^th. or even TLth or x\jth of an inch. Their form, however, is still that of a flattened cone (compare fig. 259. and fig. 257. p. 347.) ;—the breadth of the base of which is about \th, and the depth about ^th, its height. In the remainder of the intestine, the length of the villi gradually recedes to that which they possess in the lower part of the duodenum ; while their number also diminishes to a some- what smaller extent. Throughout all this extent, the shapes and sizes of contiguous villi often present great varieties. But as a rule, the lower we descend in the examina- tion of the intestine, the greater is the number of cylindrical forms we meet with. While towards the extremity of the ileum, the gradual diminution of their size renders many of them scarcely more than sloth °f an mch m dia- meter. The villi cover the whole surface of the mucous membrane of the small intestine, in- cluding its valvulae conniventes ; and they extend to the free margin of the valve which marks the commencement of the caecum and colon. The only exception to their pre-