PANCREAS. 110 junction of the inferior mesenteric vein with it. The contents of a pancreatic abscess ma)' be discharged in various directions. Some- times they escape into the cavity of the ab- domen; sometimes they pass into the stomach, and sometimes into the duplicative of the mesocolon, where they may be retained as in a sac, or, having perforated one of its lamina?, m.iy be effused into the general cavity of the abdomen. It is supposed also that the pus of a pancreatic abscess may find its way into the intestinal canal, and be discharged by stool without any obvious communication being established between them. Thus, in a case communicated by Dr. Hay garth to Dr. Per- cival, in which, on dissection after death, the pancreas was found to contain a considerable abscess, blood and, at length, fetid pus had been discharged by stool during life. According to Dr. Pemberton*, ulceration is a very frequent result of inflammation of the pancreas ; and from the small degree of sensibility with which the»organ is endowed, the destruction may go a great way without pain or any symptom previously existing which could lead to a suspicion that inflam- mation was going on. Portal alleges that gangrene of the pancreas is a frequent consequence of its inflammation, and that he has met with it in several in- stances. In one case, which he particularly specifies, the pancreas was found, on examina- tion, to be of a violet purple colour, softened, and allowing a blackish fetid humour to exude from its external surface. " In short," he says, " it was gangrenous almost throughout its whole extent." Gendrin quotes what he conceives to have been a case of gangrene of the pancreas, occurring after chronic inflam- mation, and suggests it as probable that in this, as in other tissues, acute inflamma- tion passes readily and completely into the state of sphacelus, only in cases in which the organ has been weakened by previous disease. c. Haemorrhage.—I have only met with two cases of haemorrhage in the pancreas : one recorded by Mr. Fearnside, in which the right extremity was occupied by a large coagulum ; the other related by Storck, in which the pancreas was so large and heavy that it ex- ceeded thirteen pounds in weight. On cutting into this mass, it was found to consist merely of a sac filled with blood, partly grumous, partly coagulated, and beginning, it is stated, to become organised. d. Structural changes. 1. Non-malignant; cartilaginous transformation.—Many cases are on record in which the pancreas had been found cartilaginous ; it is generally enlarged, nodular on the surface, and very hard. In the majority of cases, one or more neighbouring organs have been found similarly affected; but in some rare cases the pancreas has been the exclusive seat of the cartilaginous de- generation. In persons affected with it * On Diseases of the Viscera, p. G3. et seq. nausea, vomiting, thirst, pain in the epi- gastrium, &c, had existed, and it was pro- bably the remote consequence of chronic inflammation. Steatomatous concretions. — Portal states that the pancreas is sometimes found full of steatomatous concretions, hard or softened, white like suet, or yellowish like honey. Sometimes the pancreas is enlarged by this matter throughout its whole substance, some- times it exists only in particular parts. Those who have died of scrofula, and in whom the glands of the neck, axillae, groins, or me- sentery were obstructed, had likewise the pan- creas equally affected. He mentions a par- ticular case in which the mesenteric glands were full of steatomatous concretions, and in which the pancreas, besides being enor- mously enlarged and full of similar concre- tions, was covered by one of the consistence of suet and more than five or six lines in thickness. In this case the surrounding cel- lular texture, the mesocolon, and the parietes of the stomach, were cartilaginous and thick- ened, in consequence, he supposes, of the pressure of the tumour. He states, however, that the pancreas has been found affected when no marks of scrofula were observable in any other part of the body. Meckel state* that he has seen the organ changed to an almost tophaceous mass. The steatomatous concretion of Portal seems to be identical with the tubercle of the present day ; and accordingly, both in the human subject and in the lower animals, tu- bercles of the pancreas have been occasionally met with, particularly in cases in which the lungs had undergone a similar degeneration. M. Lombard states that of one hundred cases of tuberculous disease in children which he examined, he found, in five, tubercles exist- ing in the pancreas.* Cystic tumours; hydatids. — These are of rare occurrence. M. Becourt has described a preparation in the Museum of the Medical School at Strasburg, of a cyst of very large size in the body of the viscus. Dr. Gross has given the following description of one, in a communication to the Medical Society of Boston.f On opening the body, a voluminous fluctuating tumour of oval form was found situated beneath the right lobe of the liver, with which it had contracted intimate ad- hesions. It was placed between the intestines and the posterior abdominal wall, passed a little to the left of the vertebral column, and had in front of it the curvature of the duo- denum. It contained from 10 to 1-t ounces of a sero-sanguinolent fluid without clot, slightly viscid, and without any appearance of fatty matter. There was not n trace in its walls of any of the normal tissue of the pancreas, although it was evidently formed by that organ. It contained some very small calculi, resembling those ordinarily met with in the ramifications of the pancreatic duct, and two of these, from three to four lines in dia- * Library of Medicine, vol. iv. j- Archiv. Ge'n. de Me'd. iv. serie, t. 218.