RUMINANTIA. 534 ward, and are by far the most abundant of all these structures; they are very closely set together at the tip, and have a horny epi- dermal covering, approaching in this respect the rasp-like retroverted spines on the tongue of Carnivora. The fungiform or spherical gustatory papillae are sparsely scattered here and there, but somewhat closely aggregated at the lingual margins. In the Giraffe, not- withstanding the deposition of a dark purple pigment which distinguishes the anterior half of the tongue, the last named papilla? present a very striking appearance, resembling so many small highly polished beads of a deep black colour. They are well shown in the annexed woodcut (.fig. 357.). The conical papillae situated behind and towards the root, may be grouped under the same category as the retroverted filiform spines seen in front ; but as they proceed in the direction of the pharynx their conoidal character becomes obliterated, and they assume a more or less flattened oval or rounded form. The papillce circumval/ata?, though not occurring in great numbers, are largely developed, and in the Camel exhibit a very complicated structure (Meckel) ; the middle projecting portion, instead of being smooth and single, is split up, as it were, into numerous finely serrated secondary filaments, leaving a small central depression unoccupied, while the elevated circumferential margin outside the circular fossa shows at the same time a tendency to subdivision (b, b, fg. 358). In the Giraffe Fig. 358. Section from the base of the tongue of the Bactrian Camel. (From F. Midler and Wedl.) and Deer they offer a faint indication of the central dimple, but their character otherwise accords with the appearances usually pre- sented. The muscles of the tongue,as already hinted, display few marked deviations from the or- dinary mannniferous type ; nevertheless, the comparative glossologist recognises in these slight differences, points fraught with peculiar anatomical and physiological interest. To enunciate this speciality fully in all its bear- ings would demand more time and space than has been placed at our disposal, and it is not without regret that we are compelled to limit the exposition of so captivating a subject to the few following remarks, gathered in great measure from the monograph of Mr. Zaglas and the observations of Professor Owen on the tongue of the Giraffe. For- tunately, we have had an opportunity of con- firming the previously recorded particulars concerning the lingual organisation of this remarkable animal, and in regard to the myological arrangements of the tongue in other ruminants, the writings of Cuvier, Blandin, and others, furnish some important details.* The styloglossus rises from the lowermost extremity of the styloid bone, and extends along the under surface of the tongue as far as the tip, being separated only from the muscle of the opposite side by the interposed genio-glossi. It is powerfully developed in the Giraffe, and is confined in its position by strongly marked bands of muscular fibre di- rected outwards from the superior border of the genio-glossus (where that muscle dips into the medullary substance), to the mar- ginal expansion of the lingual fascia investing the dorsum. This muscle is of small dimen- sions in the Camel. The liyo-g/ossus is a compound structure, its several portions dif- fering only from those in man by being more distinct and widely separated ; the division recognised as the cerato-glossus by the human anatomist is usually described as the stylo- glossus minor in the lower animals. The gc?iio-glossus varies considerably in size, and is unconnected with any part of the hyoid apparatus (Blandin) ; ordinarily, the laminae of each muscle are easily parted in conse- quence of the looseness of the interposed areolar substance as far as the mesial line, where the fibres begin to dovetail into one another. In Man the fasiculi are short and comparatively thick, but in the Deer and Camel the two muscles are thin and united anteriorly. These applied muscular laminae are very strong, and have a great longitudinal extension in the Giraffe ; posteriorly they admit of easy separation, but in front the fibres are intermixed, attenuated, and with difficulty isolated. In connection with this part of the subject it may be remarked that the researches of Mr. Zaglas have shown the septum (linea albescens of Caldani) or car- tilago-lingualis to have no real existence in the Sheep, Deer, Calf, or Cameland we may add that our own examinations prove that this structure is likewise absent in the Giraffe. The value of this observation is enhanced when we bear in mind, that in other mam- mals — the Carnivora more especially — this * Blandin, These Inaug. sur la Structure de la Langue de Boeuf; also, Mc'moire, &c, Archiv. Ge'n., torn. i. 1823.