283 RESPIRATION. attention is invited. The conclusions here- after to be drawn will be found opposed to Fig. 232. a A small portion of the lung o f the Newt laid open and examined by transmitted light, under a high power, such that only the surface {internal or mucous') is in focus. ( Original.) a, a leading branch of the pulmonary artery, giving off at very regular intervals which break at once into the true capillaries c, c, c.; d, d, d, denote the parenchymous islets which till up the meshes of the capillary plexuses. (They are the true pul- monary parenchyma.) g, marks the abrupt line which abruptly limits the distribution of the ciliated epi- thelium, which follows the larger vessels in tracts; d, c, c, c, coinciding with the true respiratory or capillary areas of the lung, are seen to be destitute of ciliated epithelium. the views of Mr. Rainey. This excellent observer* has affirmed the principle that, on the true breathing portions, or capillary seg- ments of the lnngs, there literally exists no epithelial lining of any description whatever, the vessels being as literally naked. To this " principle," deliberately enunciated and sup- ported by elaborate " proof" by an acute and truthful observer, many anatomists have yielded implicit assent. First, it is here objected that such a "principle" violates directly all the lessons of analogy. Analogy ! Is not demon- stration better than analogy ? In the science of organised beings, the connected reasoning founded on analogy cannot be despised. The closest scrutiny in individual instances may miss the truth. The manifold illusions of the microscope may readily mislead. Analogy supposes a mass of cumulative evidence. The general law neutralises particular errors. In no instance whatever, either in the vertebrate or invertebrate kingdom, has it been proved, in the course of the present extended inquiry, that the vessels of a real breathing organ can exist under a perfectly " naked form." What is true of invertebrate animals as an organic law cannot be untrue of the vertebrate. The * Med. Chir. Trans. 1848. gills of fishes are furnished with a very marked epithelial covering. The temporary branchiae of the amphibia are clothed with epidermis. The air-bladder is provided with an epithelial lining, the cells of which admit of ready and conclusive demonstration. Why should it not exist in the case of the true pulmonary structures ? No reason can be imagined; but the fact that it does not has been affirmed by Mr. Rainey. Mr. Rainey's observations were instituted upon injected preparations. This is the source of the error into which he has fallen. If the lung of the newt be carefully, but quickly, laid open, co- vered, but not jyresscd, with a thin slip of glass, and examined under the microscope, it will be found that the vibratile cilia have a limited distribution. Under the favourable oppor- tunities afforded by such a preparation it is perfectly easy to follow with the eye the continuation of the epithelial cells (c, c, fig. 232.) beyond the limits of the ciliary areas into the true capillary or active breathing segments. The ciliated portions of the epi- thelium (over the vessels b, b) exhibit a floccuhnt character, precisely as shown in the preparations of Mr. Rainey ; while the areas immediately adjacent appear smooth or naked. But under the use of a higher power and a steady gaze the polygonal outlines of the epi- thelial scales can be distinctly discerned most readily between the islets of parenchyma ((/, d). If this covering consist of "basement mem- brane," then basement membrane is composed of scaliform parts; but it is not. It is a true and real and unbroken continuation of the tracheal and bronchial mucous membrane. It is only the ciliary appendages to the cells that cease at a certain limit; the cells them- selves continue to invest the whole super- ficies of the lungs. It is full of interest also to note that the epithelial scales which cover the capillary areas of the lung of the newt (parts which coincide with air-cells of the mammalian lung) lose not only the external appendages (cilia), but also their internal parts (nucleus ami granules). This succes- sive reduction leaves nothing hut a hyaline involucrum enclosing a pellucid fluid. This is the real structure, supported indeed by a hypothetical basement membrane, by which the capillary areas of the pulmonary organs are invested. It finds a parallel in the trans- parent scales which cover the cornea. In these ribless amphibia the operation of breathing resolves itself into an act of "swal- lowing" air. The glottidean chink is em- braced by two minute semilunar pieces of cartilages and furnished with muscles for opening and closing the orifice. In the pa- rietes of the lungs no trace of muscular fibres can be discovered; but elastic fibres are present everywhere among the vessels. It is by the agency of this elastic tissue, aided by the abdominal parietes, that the act of expira- tion is performed. The exterior of the lung is lined by peritoneum, the scales of which are much attenuated compared with those of other parts of the same membrane, as those