101 PANCREAS. obviate the escape of the secretion through a second pancreatic duct, which, he sa}s, he found very common, he closed this second orifice by an ingenious method of compres- sion. With this apparatus he succeeded in getting a free supply of pancreatic fluid, as clear as spring water, but slightly viscid, and varying in taste, from salt to acid, rough, acidulo-saline, or insipid. De Graaf's memoir is well worth reading, and is, considering the time in which it was written, and in spite of the necessary admixture of a good deal of mediaeval physiology, a model of sagacious forethought and patient research. He insists strongly on the acidity of the fluid, not only in the dog, but in man, and affirms that he and many others found it to possess an acid taste in a man who had been suddenly killed, and whose body was still warm. But it is necessary to bear in mind his coarse and superficial means of examination, and the bias with which he undertook his researches from his strong attachment to both the physio- logical and pathological views of Sylvius. Schuyl*, also a disciple of Sylvius, adopted a process analogous to that of De Graaf, and succeeded in obtaining a quantity of the secretion, amounting to two or three ounces, in three hours ; he pretends that what he collected had an acid taste, and affirms, more- over, that it coagulated milk. The researches of Wepferf, PechlinJ, Brunner$, and Bohn || did not confirm the assertions of De Graaf and Schuyl. These observers found the pancreatic secretion turbid, whitish, not acid, but having a taste slightly saline, like that of lymph. Succeeding experimenters agreed no better with regard to the qualities of this liquid. ViridetlT said that he found it acid in most animals, and pretended that it sen- sibly reddened litmus. Hduermann**, on the contrary, denied that it had this effect. Fordyceff found that of the dog to be co- lourless, watery, and salt in taste, and affirmed it to be composed of water, mucus, soda and phosphorus. Meyer J J has examined the pan- creatic juice in a cat, which he found in the vesicular reservoir which is sometimes met with in that animal. It appeared transparent, viscid, and had an alkaline taste ; it coloured the mallow dye red, and red litmus paper blue. Meyer says further that he found in it albumen, chlorides of sodium and ammonia, and a peculiar matter giving a violet pre- cipitate, with chloride of tin. Lastly, Ma- gendie found§§ the pancreatic juice in a dog to be yellowish, inodorous, and with a saline taste. He adds that the liquid is alkaline, * Tractatus pro Veteri Medicina. Leyde. 1670. t De Cicuta Aquatica, p. 200. i De Purgantium Medic. Facult. Leyde. 1G72. § Experimenta Nova circa Pancreas. Amst.1683. I] Circulus Anatomieo-physiologicus. Leipsig, % De Prima Coetione, p, 2G6. ** Physiologie, th. iii. p. 807. ft Versuche iiber das Verdauungsgeschaft, Leip- sig, 1793. 11 Journ. compl. et Diet, du Sc. Med. t.iii. p. 283. §§ Precis Ele'mentaire de Physiologic, t. ii. p. 207. that it coagulates with heat, and that in birds it is altogether albuminous; at least, that, ex- posed to heat, it coagidates like albumen. With such various opinions as to the qua- lities of the secretion, it is not surprising that the views of its function should have been discrepant, and accordingly we find that many hypotheses, often far-fetched and extra- vagant, were adopted to explain the part which the pancreatic fluid played in digestion. Some thought that it had for its destination the separation of the chyle from the excre- ments ; others, that it served to temper the acridity of the bile; others, again, thought that it diluted the chyme, or that it dissolved that portion of the food which had not been digested in the stomach; that it contributed to its assimilation, &c. Haller, after ex- hausting himself with conjectures, can only say, " Plura possunt esse officia liquoris non- dum satis noti ;" and Magenclie, fifty years later, admits that it is impossible to say what the rule of the pancreatic fluid may be. Such, then, were the opinions expressed, or rather the ignorance confessed on this subject, when in 1823 the Academy of Paris proposed the function of digestion as the subject of a prize dissertalion, and two of the essays sent in, which were considered by the Academy worthy of honourable mention — the one by Professors Tiedemann and Gmelin, and the other by MM. Lenret and Lassaigne — threw so much additional light on the subject, and furnished results which so long constituted the staple of our certain knowledge of the function of the pancreas, and so much of which still remains unquestioned, that they deserve special consideration. Lenret and Lassaigne, thinking that the failures of recent experimenters to get any of the secretion arose from the smallness of the duct in the animals employed, selected the horse, and succeeded in obtaining three ounces in half an hour ofa limpid liquid, with a slightly salt taste, alkaline reaction, specific gravity of 1*0026, and containing "9 percent, of solid matter. Sulphuric, nitric, and hydrochloric acid slightly troubled it, and alcohol formed a more abundant cloud, precipitated after a time in white flocculi ; an aqueous solution of chlorine determined a light flocculent preci- pitate ; infusion of gall-nuts occasioned a yellowish deposit; lastly, nitrate of silver and protonitrate of mercury showed the existence of chlorides, and oxalate of ammonia that of lime. On treating the solid residuum with alcohol and evaporating, it yielded a transpa- rent viscid matter, with a salt and sharp taste, the non-crystallizable portion of which con- sisted of an azotised substance precipitable by many metallic salts and solution of gall-nuts. That portion of the residuum of the pan- creatic juice which had been exhausted bv the alcohol was then heated with distilled water, when this latter showed on evaporation a certain viscosity, indicating the solution of an animal principle in it. The result of the en- tire qualitative analyses, the further details of which I need not give, was as follows : — II ?