650 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. condition. These, up to the time of impregna- tion, form the special and sole elements of the muscular tissue ; yet some physiologists even of the present day refuse to recognise in these a muscular character, although it is plain that the uterus so constructed has a contractile power. The occurrence of ab- ortion, sometimes at the very beginning of pregnancy, the expulsion of polypi and dys- inenorrhceal membranes, and the painful con- tractions termed uterine colic, prove that the unimpregnated uterus is so endowed. This non-recognition of a muscular character in the uterus before pregnancy has arisen from the minute size of the individual fibres, and from the difficulty of explaining why these should grow to a given point, and then cease to be developed. But F. M. Kilian has given a happy illustration of this point, de- rived from the observation of Kolliker, that the contractile fibre cells which are found in the coats of the smaller blood-vessels, pre- serve a relative proportionate size to those of the larger ones, wherein they are more fully developed. So also the contractile fibre cells of the uterus proceed to a certain point of development in the unimpregnated organ, and there stop. And in this respect it makes little or no difference whether the organ exa- mined has been taken from an infant or an adult. But when pregnancy takes place, the fibres proceed to a further stage of development. Their growth is now so considerable, that the contractile fibre cells, instead of a length of 0-002—0-003'", and width of 0-002"', in the fifth month, present a length of 0-06—0-12'", and width of 0-0025—0-006'", or even 0-01'", and in the second half of the sixth month, a lenath of O'l— 0-25'", a width of 0-004— 0-005'", and a thickness of 0-002—0-0028'"; consequently their length is increased from seven to eleven times, and their width from twice to five times.* But in addition to this greater development of pre-existing fibre cells, a new formation of muscular fibre also takes place. This is ob- served, according to Kolliker, chiefly in the inner layers, although it may also occur in the external ones. The time of this new forma- tion is chiefly the first half of pregnancy, the earlier forms of the fibre cells being no longer discernible after the twenty-sixth week. From this time onwards, the muscular coat contains only colossal fibre cells. According to my observations, the indivi- dual fibre cells increase gradually in breadth throughout pregnancy, but their length is so variable, that the measurements just given can only be regarded as examples. The length, indeed, of the greater number of fibre cells after the third month cannot be determined with exactitude. A great many are thrown into numerous folds and contortions. Some exhibit transverse wrinkles, and the majority, when unbroken, end in long drawn out fila- * Kolliker, Manual of Human Histology, Syd. Soc. vol. ii. p. 259.; and Siebold and Kolliker's ^eitsehrift, 1848, bd. I. p. 72. ments, whose terminations become inter- mingled with the adjacent cells. Fine longi- tudinal markings are often distinguishabfe, and some fibres exhibit an elongated nucleus. The interior of the fibre is finely granular, and the margins show often a sinuous outline. Fig. 448. Fibre cells of gravid uterus fully developed. {After Wagner.~) The fibrous tissue uniting the several layers of muscles appears also to increase considerably, and towards the end of preg- nancy to exhibit a distinct fibrillation. These muscular and fibrous elements of the gravid uterus are arranged in numerous thin lamellae, a good view of which may be obtained by cutting a thin slice perpendicu- larly out of the walls of the uterus at term. Fig. 449. Section of the entire walls of the uterus after deli- very ; showing the arrangement of the lamina: and the divided arteries and veins lying between them. (Ad Nat.)* By gentle traction, the lamina; may be drawn partly asunder. They are then seen to be * In order to obtain a correct representation of the course of the laminae, I have here pinned out the preparation under spirit, and afterwards photo- graphed it for engraving, of the natural size. By the stretching, the breadth of the preparation is doubled, and the laminie are separated and rendered more distinct.