SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 447 examined, after addition of dilute solution of soda, with a power of 40 diameters, it is not difficult to observe, in the cat or other small animals, that the fibres composing the white portion run towards the centre. Many of them bend directly inwards to the cord, while others sink into the spinal nerve, more or less obliquely, still, however, in the direction of the centre. That the fibres in question are not to be regarded as fibres sent from the sym- pathetic to the cerebro-spinal nerves is ren- dered further probable by the fact that they can all be traced beyond the corresponding sympathetic ganglion into the cord above and below. Moreover Kolliker has traced them not only past the ganglia in the main chain of the sympathetic, but into the peripherical branches, and, in small animals, even through the ganglia occurring upon these latter He also finds that the fine fibres in question differ from those which arise in the sympathetic ganglia in presenting a darker contour and in being somewhat broader. As regards the proportion between the fibres in the communicating branches which may be regarded as proceeding from the sym- pathetic to the cerebro-spinal nerves and those which are sent by the latter to the sympa- thetic, we have already seen that in the frog, according to the observations of Bidder and Volkmann, the former exceed the latter con- siderably. In the higher animals it would appear that the reverse is the case ; in the rabbit, according to Kolliker, by far the greater portion of the rami communicantes run towards the centre. In man also, according Fig. 293. Connection between the. sympathetic and the sixth intercostal, nerve in the Rabbit. it c, communicatin g branch; c r, intercostal nerve; c, its central extremitj'; p, its peripheral extremity. Most of the fibres of the communicating branch run towards the centre ; several of these, a, a, disappear among the fibres of the intercostal nerve, rather in the direction of the periphery. (Mag. 60 diam.) to the same observer, much the greater number of the fibres contained in these branches run inwards towards the spinal column. I examined most of the rami communicantes in a fcetal calf about. 2\ feet in length, and have little hesitation in saying that in this animal the proportion of fibres which are directed towards the spinal cord greatly exceeds any that appear to run towards the periphery. At the point of junction with the spinal nerve the communicating branch, when examined with a power of 40 diameters, was seen to spread out somewhat, most of the fibres bent directly inwards towards the spinal cord, others passed into the nerve, either obliquely or at right angles to it, and then curved in- wards towards the spinal cord. In some of the communicating branches, a few of the fibres were seen to join the nerve in the direc- tion of the periphery. In the cat also, the fibres of many of the communicating branches were found to run exclusively in the direction of the spinal cord. The fibres in the different communicating blanches, as shown by Wiitzer, Miiller, ami others, are connected both with the anterior ami posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and it seems probable that the fibres which are sent from the cerebro-spinal system are de- rived from both. Volkmann*, however, as will be afterwards noticed, believes that all the fibres sent to the sympathetic are derived from the posterior root alone. As regards the further course of the fibres which are derived by the sympathetic from the cerebro-spinal system, Valentin f, holding the view that this nerve is entirely composed of such fibres, believed that on joining the * Nerven-Physiologie in Wagner's Handwortcr- buch, Eilfle Lieferung, p. 600. f De Functionibus Nervorum, ยง 152. 155. See also Quain'a Anatomy, by Sharper.