29 OVUM. The instance already referred to, of the iden- tity of the Cysticercus of the liver of the mouse and rat with the Taenia crassicollis of the cat, and a variety of detached observations which prove that the Bothriocephalus and Tetra- rhynchus pass through similar changes from a small Echinococcus-like animalcule to the developed cestoid form, lead to the corro- boration of the same general view that the encysted condition of these Entozoa is an incomplete non-sexual embryo or larva, from which, when it passes into the free state, there is formed by a process of transverse Fig. 27. Taenia solium. (From Blanehard.) A, one of the longer mature posterior segments with the sexual organs fully developed ; o, o, rami- fied ovary full of ova; o', the oviduct; t, the tubu- lar testis ; t', the penis, &e. b, head, neck and anterior recently formed seg- ments. fission a segmented individual or compound animal, in which each segment, as it arrives at maturity, attains to sexual completeness. In this process the new segments are always developed between the head and those already formed. If the character of sexual complete- ness is to be taken as the distinguishing mark of individuality, each segment of the Cestoid may be looked upon as a distinct animal, and the separation of them by transverse fission may be compared to the separation of Medusa individuals from the Strobila polype stock. The Cestoid Entozoa might in the same manner be considered as subject to a peculiar process of alternate generation. In the preceding sketch of the nature of the reproductive process in the Cestoid Ento- zoa, I have followed chiefly the views of V. Siebold as explained in the interesting Me- moir already referred to. It is right to state, however, that the phenomena have been viewed in a different light by several observers of high authority. Thus, Blanehard and Van Beneden consider the first stage of the Tetra- rhynchus-embryo to be a Scolex, in which, after it has been encysted, the Tetrarhynchus is formed : this, according to Blanehard, is its complete condition ; but, according to Van Beneden, the so-called Tetrarhynchus is con- verted into a Rhynchobothrius, and this is in the last place changed into a separate Tre- matode animal.* Dujardin*had previously taken the same view as applied to the separate and independent nature of the joints of the Taenia, which he regarded as individual Tre- matode animals, and described under the name of Proglottis (see26./t'.)f; but though there may be some points of analogy between the single segments of Taenia and a Trematode, yet the absence of head, differences in the alimentary canals, and other circumstances, render the correctness of this view, at all events, still doubtful, t Trematoda. — These animals, the most common of which are known as Flukes (ex- cluding the Planarias), comprehend a set of internal parasites of a structure bearing some resemblance to the Cestoidea, but single, that is, not jointed or segmented. The nervous and vascular systems attain to a considerable degree of development: the alimentary canal, which has a mouth but no anus, is in some bifurcated, and in others more or less ramified. The male and female generative organs are united in one individual, and pervade a large portion of the body of the adult animal. The facts which have been ascertained in recent times concerning the generation of some of the Trematoda constitute one of the most remarkable parts of the history of this process among the Invertebrata. Their ge- neral result may be shortly stated thus: — the fully grown and sexual Trematode animal, as observed chiefly in the Distomata, produces ova, which may pass through the earlier stages of their development either in the viviparous or oviparous mode, more fre- quently the latter. Each of these ova has formed from it an embryo in which no re- semblance to the Trematode parent is to be recognised, but presenting the simple struc- ture of a ciliated animalcule like a polygastric infusorian or a Gregarina. This embryo is * Bull, de 1'Acad. Roy. de Belgique, 1849, No. 1., and Ann. des Scien. Nat. vol. xi. 1849, p. 13.; also a work by the same author on the Entozoa, Brussels, 1850, of which I have only seen an extract in a letter addressed to Milne-Edwards, in the Ann. des Scien. Nat. 1851. torn xv. p. 309. t Hist. Nat, des Helminthes, 1845. % See also Leblond, in Ann. des Scien. Nat. 1836, and Miescher, Bericht Natuvforsch. Gesellsch. Basle, 1840 ; the Works of Rudolphi on Entozoa; the Article Entozoa in this Cyclopajdia, by Owen; Kblliker's Memoir on the Development of Inverte- brate Animals, in Milller's Archiv, 1843 ; Eschricht on Bothrioeephali, 1810, &e. &c.