STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 332 J Op. cit. p. 46. and neutral phosphate. the results of such a laborious inquiry, there seems little doubt that we ought to regard the balance of evidence as inclining decisively towards a single gastric acid, and that acid the hydrochloric. * Whatever the number or nature of the sub- stances to which this acid reaction of the gastric juice is due, there can be no doubt as to their source : — namely, the blood. And it is to a derivation of acid from some of the constituents of the latter fluid that we must refer the important fact established by Dr. Bence Jones :— namely, that, during diges- tion, the healthy urinary secretion loses that acidity which is proper to it at other periods. Sal/s.— As regards the salts of the gastric juice, we can only refer to the accurate analyses alluded to above; — which, while they confirm the large quantity of chlorides mentioned by most observers, exhibit rather less of the chloride of ammonium than the united (but rather vague) statements of many observers would have led us to expect. The details of an analysis of the gastric juice may be best comprehended (if not ex- plained) by placing them side by side, with a similar quantitative examination of the liquor sanguinis. The following tablef exhibits such a comparison, for a thousand parts of both fluids. Liquor Sanguinis. Water - - - 903- Animal matters - 88 5 Mineral substances - 8'6 Chlorine - Sodium - Potassium (in dog,-2?) Phosphoric acid Phosphate of lime Phosphate of magnesia (Lime corresponding to •624 Ca. CI.) 1000-0 Gastric Juice. 973-2 17-0 9-8 5-6 12 •6 ■6 1-2 •2 1000-0 Hence, while most of the blood-salts are present in increased quantity in the gastric juice, the chloride of sodium is so greatly di- minished, as to lower the total saline contents of this secretion below those of the liquor * It is only many months after writing the above lines that Bidder and Schmidt's admirable treatise (Die Verdauungssaefte und der Stoffwechsel) has come into my hands. From it I may translate the fol- lowing paragraph (p. 44 ): " The result of eighteen corresponding analyses was, that pure gastric juice of carnivora, after eighteen to twenty hours' fasting, contained/ree hydrochloric acid only, without a trace of lactic or any other organic acid : while the gastric juice of herbivora contains, with free hydrochloric acid, small quantities of lactic acid; which mar, however, be referred to their more amylaceous food." •f Here I have calculated the composition of the gastric juice from the purer fluid of Schmidt's first dog. That of the liquor sanguinis, which is quoted from Lehmann (vol. ii. p. 153.), may be safely (/</. p. 179.) extended to this animal. To facilitate comparison, both are simplified to one place of deci- mals. And for the same reason, the phosphate of lime in Schmidt's analysis has been assumed to be the biphosphate, and divided into phosphoric acid, sanguinis. While the amount of its hydrochlo- ric acid is so great, as not only to compensate this loss, but even to raise the total of its mineral constituents above that of the liquor sanguinis than before. The origin of this acid is obvious. Its mere quantity is sufficient to refer it to the chloride of sodium, which is the most plentiful chloride of the parent fluid. And the remarkable diminution in the sodium of the secreted fluid further confirms this view. Indeed, it is difficult to avoid noticing, that many of the differences between the salts of the two fluids might be included in some such hypothesis as the following: — (l.)a rapid transudation of the blood-salts generally, followed by their concentration through ab- sorption of part of their water of solution ; (2.) a decomposition of about half of the chlorides, probably of the chloride of sodium*; (3.) a return of the base of this salt into the blood. Organic substance, or Pepsine. — The addi- tion of alcohol to pure gastric juice, or to a watery infusion of stomach, causes a white flocculent precipitate; which, when dried at a low temperature, forms a much less volumi- nous mass, of a yellowish grey colour, and a somewhat gummy appearance. This substance reddens litmus, and is soluble in cold water ; but may be again precipitated from its aqueous solution by alcohol. Its ultimate analysis yields sulphur and nitrogen, together with car- bon, hydrogen, and oxygen. But we neither know the exact proportions in which all these elements are present, nor the manner in which they are combined: — and may even doubt, whether its composition is really quite defi- nite and constant in different specimens. Two analyses of this precipitate have how- ever been made :—one by A. Vogel f, of the extract of Pig's stomach ; and one by Bidder and SchmidtJ of the pepsine obtained from pure gastric juice. They are as follows : — Pepsine. Carbon - Hydrogen Nitrogen Oxygenj( + other ele- ments, and loss) Vogel. 5772 5-57 21-09 16-06 Schmidt. 53-0 6-7 17-8 22-5 Of these two analyses, the latter is pro- bably the more correct one. It offers us a composition closely resembling that of the various protein compounds, from which it * Such a decomposition would obviously present many analogies to an electrolysis. But, at present, we should hardly be justified in naming it after this process. That the acid and base are unloosed and separated is certain. But I think no one who has carefully studied the phenomena of current affinity would like definitely to refer the above decomposi- tion to this cause in the existing state of our know- ledge. We may, however, notice, that both the quantity and quality of the chloride of sodium would render it more susceptible to electrolytic action than any other of the salts present in the liquor san- guinis. t Simon's Beitraege, Berlin, 1843, p. 168.; Ann. der Pharmacie, 1839, Apr. p. 36.