37 OVUM. d 3 gemmation, or simple sprouting of the parent texture. We cannot be too cautious in making wide generalisations in regard to phenomena so various and so imperfectly known as those of alternate or intermediate generation are ; and the only safe course in the progress of such inquiries is to apply terms to the phenomena which are no more than the exact expression of what is well ascertained regarding their nature. Now, who that has observed or studied the history of the two states of the Salpians, and the relation in which they stand to each other, can hesitate to admit that two dissimilar generations alter- nate, and that a different generative process has taken place for the production of each ? or who, knowing the relation subsisting be- tween the fixed marine polype and its free moving medusoid offspring, or that between the larger medusa? and their compound polype stocks, would deny to each of these series of beings the attributes of distinct individuals, or regard the productive acts by which they take their origin in any other light than as two dis- similar kinds of generation ? But this seems scarcely more than a question of words. It is important rather to notice that while some of the polypes now alluded to multiply their like (that is polype-forms) by budding, their medusoid progeny also occasionally produce their like (or similar medusoidsj by gemma- tion ; and surely it is expedient to regard as somewhat different that production of distinct medusoid individuals from a polype stock, which is an advance in its stage of being, and which gives rise to an animal different in structure, mode of life, and functions, from its parent, from that kind of production which is no more than the repetition of the parental form or the extension of its parts. The term nurse, applied by Steenstrup to the non-sexual producers, seems inappropriate, and may, in one part at least of his treatise*, have led him into purely speculative compari- sons, such as that with the workers among the gregarious insects; but in other parts of his essay the author's speculative views are kept in strict subordination to the simple descrip- tion of the facts. Due allowance ought also to be made by the English reader of this work, for the circumstance that, though an excellent translation, it comes to him through the German from its original language. Less ob- jection would probably have been taken to his theory had the term " preparing stocks," or some one conveying a similar meaning, been substituted for that of" nursing individuals." Professor Owen also, though admitting in the full extent the peculiar and important nature of the phenomena of alternate genera- tion, objects to the term nurse or nursing animal, as calculated to mislead, and holds the views of Steenstrup, embodied in the phrase "Alternating Generation," to be defective, as not affording any real explanation of the na- ture of the phenomena, or rather, as being no more than a statement of the facts, without * On Alternate Generations, p. 112. referring them to a sufficiently general law or connecting principle. Professor Owen's attention had been, before 1843, attracted to the remarkable non-sexual multiplication of the summer Aphides, the structure of which he minutely examined, and had been led to the opinion* that the germs from which the offspring of this non-sexual generation arises are the remains of the ori- ginal germ-substance of the yolk, which have not been applied to the formation of organised textures in the individual immediately deve- loped from the ovum. Professor Owen has given the name of Parthenogenesis, or Virgin- production, to this mode of generation, and in the very able and ingenious Essay under that title, published in 1849, containing the sub- stance of two lectures, introductory to a most instructive course of lectures on the Generation and Development ofthelnvertebrated Animals, and also in various parts of these lectures-)-, has communicated a more lengthened exposi- tion of his views. " The progeny of the im- pregnated germ-cell," says he, " form the tis- sues, &c, but not all of them are so employed, some of the derivative germ-cells may remain unchanged, and become included in that body which has been composed of their metamor- phosed and diversely combined or confluent brethren : so included, any derivative germ- cell, or the nucleus of such, may commence and repeat the same processes of growth by imbibition, and of propagation by spontaneous fission, as those to which itself owed its origin; followed by metamorphoses and combinations of the germ-masses so produced, which concur to the development of another individual; and this may be, or may not be, like that individual in which the secondary germ-cell or germ-mass was included." J He states farther, that the lower the animal in the scale of life, the number of derivative germ-cells and nuclei which retain their individuality and spermatic power is greater, and the number of those that are metamorphosed into tissues and organs, less. The simplest animals are nothing more than nucleated cells, or in the minute and microscopic ones, as Gregarina and Polygastria, one nucleated cell only; the mid- dle layer of the wall of the Hydra he describes as consisting of nucleated cells. In Compound Polypes and Parenchymatous Entozoa a large quantity of derivative germ-cells is retained among their textures or other parts ; and the same is the case at the caudal extremity of the Nais and young Annelida. Professor Owen informs us that he has observed the germs of the viviparous Aphides in the em- bryoes near the simple digestive sac before any organs have been formed for their re- ception, and that when these germs are after- wards included in the tubes which correspond to the ovaries and oviducts, he regards them as comparable to the germ mass in its mi- * See Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Invertebrated Animals, 1843, p. 234. and 366. t As published in the Medical Times, vols. xix. and xx. % On Parthenogenesis, p. 5.