637 UTERUS — (Normal Anatomy). into convoluted branches; both open on the inner surface of the membrane by small round orifices, lined with epithelium, and set closely together. In man the form of the uterine follicles is by no means so definite as in the dog ; nor is it possible by any mode of dissection with which I am acquainted to isolate and display them separately.* They form in fact a sys- tem of tortuous canals ramifying in the sub- stance of the mucous membrane, in which they seem as it were to be excavated. They are so closely set as apparently to possess no distinct boundary wall, but each canal is sepa- rated from those contiguous to it by a variable thickness of parenchyma, consisting chiefly of the elementary corpuscles and amorphous tis- sue just described, together with a certain ad- mixture of fibre-cells, usually found near the basal ends of the glands. No section that I have ever made has succeeded in exhibiting even a single gland divided longitudinally in such a way as to lay open the canal in its entire length, but every section made per- pendicular to the surface presents the same appearance of numerous close-set meandering canals laid open for short distances, and giving to the surfaces of the section an outline Fie. 438. Section of the entire thickness of the uterine mucous membrane (decidua) in the unimpregnated state, with a small portion of the muscular coat attached. The pale tortuous lines exhibit the course of the canals, termed uterine glands, the darker inter- mediate substance forms their walls. The finer lines are the capillaries of the mucous membrane injected. (Ad Nat.) exactly resembling the cerebral convolu- tions. On account of this peculiarity it is difficult to determine whether these so-called glands consist of single isolated canals, or of a series communicating with each other. For the same reason it is also difficult to ascertain the precise mode of their termination towards the muscular coat, whether in a blind extremity in every case, as Weber represents them, or * It appears to me that the well-known repre- sentations of the human uterine glands by E. H- Weber (Zusatze zur Lehre vom Baue und den Ver- richt der Geschlechtsorgane, Taf. viii. f. 4, 5.) are too definite, and should be regarded rather as dia- grams than actual representations of what is seen in any mere section. Though it should be observed that these figures are taken from the pregnant uterus where the glands have enlarged and become more distinct. whether by any indirect communication with the uterine vessels, which many considerations both physiological and pathological seem to point out as at least possible. The difficulties attending this part ot the enquiry have been ably illustrated by Dr. Sharpey, and my own investigations fully confirm his statements upon this point. Nevertheless I have in many in- stances succeeded in distinctly observing the blind termination of these canals towards the muscular coat.* When sections of the mucous membrane are made parallel with, instead of perpendicular to, the surface, these canals are seen divided across. The appearance then presented is that of numerous round or oval apertures, which are more distinct in proportion as the section is made nearer to the uterine cavity. The uterine glands are lined by a fine den- tate epithelium, the cells of which are only slightly coherent at their margins. The orifices by which they terminate upon the surface of the uterine cavity vary in di- ameter from ' to Too "• In addition to the glands or canals already described, there may be often observed inter- mixed with them short mucous crypts, or even closed follicles. These appear to have been little noticed in the uterine cavity, but they are very distinctly seen when accidentally dis- tended by accumulation of fluid. They then constitute a variety of those growths, which in more advanced stages have been designated by Dr. Oldham channel polypi. The arrangement of the capillary vessels of the uterine mucous membrane is peculiar and Fie. 439. Net-ivorh of capillaries on the surface of the mucous membrane of the uterus, a, from the body; b, from the canal leading to the Fallopian tube. In the centre of each of the meshes is the orifice of a uterine gland. (Ad Nat.) characteristic. The capillaries, which are of large size, usually descend between the canals of the uterine glands, giving to them a few * Upon this subject see further, p. 666.