537 RUMINANT I A. denominated the lionci/-comb-hag. The cells are particularly shallow in the Rein-deer and Giraffe, being circumscribed by very narrow laminae, scarcely elevated above the level of the mucous surface. The lining membrane is further characterised in the horned rumi- nants by a cuticular covering developing a great number of minute and sharply pointed conical papillae, which occupy every part of the cavity, but are most prominently marked along the ridges of the laminae, imparting to these folds a denticulated aspect. In the Camels and Llamas the honeycomb-cells ac- quire a form and capacity strictly analogous to the water-cells of the paunch ; but there are some slight modifications of structure, apparently conformable with the more tem- porary or immediate purposes which they subserve. The apertures of the cells of the rumen — destined to retain water for a lengthened period — are narrow and guarded by productions of the lining membrane, while those of the reticulum, constantly parting with their aqueous contents during the ordinary act of rumination, are more patent, and not covered in by special membranous folds; moreover, in the distended condition of the cells, the external surface of the paunch is marked by a corresponding number of vesi- cular bulgings, but in the reticulum the walls remain smooth and do not exhibit any very evident traces of the contained water- cells ; their internal subdivisions are likewise more numerous and complicated than in the rumen. Another distinction — already al- luded to — between the typical and akera- tophorous species, obtains in the absence of an internal cuticular epidermis in the bonnet of the Camelidas. In all ruminants at the anterior border of the second stomach is situated a short demi-canal, constituting the remains of that portion of the oesophagus not involved in the great gastric dilatations, two of which we have now described. This elongated channel — very well shown in the accompanying woodcut, Jig. 359., — forms a bond of communication between the gullet and the three first digestive cavities, and it is provided with an extension of the mus- cular tunics of the oesophagus, modified to suit its twofold office, to which we shall again have occasion to refer when speaking of the ruminating function in detail. The third stomach (d,fig. 359.), commonly called the Psalterium, Manypliea, Omasus or Fcuillct, intervenes between the water-bag and the fourth or true digestive cavity, com- municating with the former by a constricted orifice and with the latter by a very wide opening. It is the smallest of the stomachal viscera, subglobular in form, and smooth ex- ternally ; but the extent of its absorbing sur- face bears no relation to the diminished bulk of the organ, seeing that it is enormously in- creased by a remarkable folding of the internal lining membrane, the duplicatures of which resemble the leaves of a book, — hence the names above indicated. The laminae are longitudinally disposed, and in the empty condition of the viscus are closely applied against each other. In breadth they exhibit proportionate differences, so that we find an alternating assemblage of lamina; presenting three several degrees of development; one, a very narrow fold, another, very broad, and a third of intermediate width, serially intercalated between the two. Altogether about forty such septa have been counted in the Sheep, and more than double that number in the Ox. The internal surface is beset throughout with small conical, pointed pa- pillae, similar to the villi of the reticulum, those placed at the free margins of the folds being paramount. In Camelidae the psal- terium is greatly elongated, attenuated at either extremity, and three or four times more bulky than the water-bag ; otherwise, its organisation conforms with the pecu- liarities observable in the horned species. The fourth stomach [e, Jig. 359.), techni- cally termed the Reed, Abomasus, or Caillctte, constitutes the true digestive apparatus, ana- logous to the simple gastric organ of the non- ruminating vertebrata. It is about one third of the size of the paunch, and smooth ex- ternally, has an elongated pyramidal figure, and terminates by a narrow tubular portion at the pyloric extremity, the muscular tunics at this point acquiring a considerably in- creased thickness. Internally the secreting membrane is distinguished by irregularly disposed longitudinal folds, slightly elevated above the surface and intercommunicating by smaller rugae of the same nature, having an oblique or transverse direction. There are no papillary eminences like those in the re- ticulum and manyplies, the lining membrane being soft, highly vascular, and occupied by the follicular openings of true gastric glands as in the human stomach. At the pylorus, in addition to the ordinary narrowing usually found at this part, there exists a special val- vular process, developed from the mucous membrane at the commencement of the duo- denum ; in the Giraffe this protecting fold is situated just within the stomach (Owen). In the akcratophorous Ruminantia the reed is relatively smaller than in the horned species ; in other respects it offers no ap- preciable difference. The ruminating function is characterised by the following phenomena : — The food, on being received into the mouth, undergoes a very partial mastication, and in this crude state is speedily carried down the oesophagus, where, on arriving at the lower part, the lips of the muscular channel, placed at the en- trance of the three first stomachs, separate, so as to ensure its passage into the paunch, In like manner, subsequent to the act of drinking, the margins of the oesophageal groove open, and the water is conveyed into the cells of the reticulum. In the Camels a proportion of the fluid passes into the first cavity, there to be retained by the great water-pouches, as a special provision against those contingencies which their mode of ex- istence involves. While the coarse vegetable