STOMACH AND INTESTINE, 327 numerous small and short vessels, the vasa brevia. Thegastro-epiploica sinistra {i,Jigs. 250,251.) leaves the trunk of the splenic artery close to where this divides at the inner surface of the spleen. It passes downwards, forwards, and towards the right side, first lying for a short distance in the gastro-splenic omentum, and then entering between the layers of the great omentum which is continuous with this fold. It then runs along the lower border or great curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the corresponding vessel on the right side. Like it, it supplies branches to both surfaces of the stomach. The vasa brevia are numerous small branches which come from the primary and secondary divisions of the splenic artery, and run in the gastro-splenic omentum to the cardiac pouch. Here they break up and anastomose with each other, as well as with the coronary and left castro-epiploic arteries. The veins of the stomach are the superior pyloric, and the right and left gastro-epiploic. The vena pylorica superior receives and continues a large vein, which corresponds to the coronary artery, and takes a similar (but reversed) course along the lesser curvature of the stomach to the pylorus. It now passes upwards for a little distance, before opening into the vena police (a, Jig. 281.) near its ter- mination in the liver. In other instances, it bends down to join the splenic vein. The vena gastro-epiploica dextra corre- sponds to its artery in the greater part of its distribution. It usually ends by emptying itself into the superior mesenteric vein, just before this forms the vena portce by joining with the splenic vein (e, Jig. 281.). The vena gastro-epiploica sinistra also runs with its artery, and joins either the splenic vein, or one of its primary brandies. All of the foregoing vessels are characterized by the great freedom and frequency of their inosculations in every stage of their course from the aortic to the portal trunks. This con- dition is especially well marked in the arteries. And, as ordinarily injected, the latter ap- pear to be both larger and more numerous than the arteries distributed to an equal bulk of most of the other structures of the body.* * Assuming this fact to be as true as it seems to be, it becomes interesting to inquire what peculiari- ties of the circulation may be presumed to be con- nected with it. Other things being equal, the pas- sage of a larger quantity of blood to and from an organ may be fairly supposed to be associated with a greater amount of that change which absorption or secretion there impress upon this fluid. Again, Volkmann's researches have shown that the anas- tomosis of channels diminishes the resistance in their interior; — a diminution which, if not met by any counteracting circumstance, would increase the velocity of their contents. But the most plau- sible conjecture that can at present be offered is, that this increase in the number of these small ar- teries,— which have a distinctly muscular struc- ture, and are plentifully supplied with nerves,— has reference to that efficient and sudden control of their calibre which the varying exigencies of their capil- lary circulation would seem to imply. Their tortuous course, and their loose con- nection with the stomach, chiefly refer to the distention of this organ. For as the stomach expands between the laminae of peritoneum, it gradually straightens these vessels, and alters their position with respect to itself and to each other. The distal branches of the arterial and venous trunks perforate the muscular coat at different intervals, by twigs which unite with each other in the loose submucous areolar tissue, so as to form two broad and somewhat flattened networks: — one, which is composed of small arteries, and another, of veins. The vessels of the latter plexus are, as usual, both larger and more numerous than the corresponding arteries. Capillaries. — The arterial branches which leave the above sub-mucous network, to enter the dense muscular layer of the matrix of the stomach, divide here once or twice. And their ultimate ramifications, which have a diameter of about TsVoth to Ta^tli of an inch, pass vertically upwards, along the sides of the tubes to their upper apertures, where they form a superficial network of capillaries. In passing Fig. 252. Plan of the vessels of the mucous membrane o f the stomach, as they would be seen in a vertical section. a, arteries from the plexus occupying the sub- mucous areolar tissue ; b, superficial plexus of capil- laries occupying the ridges of the mucous mem- brane ; c, veins passing downwards between the gastric'tubes; d, capillaries between and around the tubes; e, plexus of arteries and veins occupying the submucous areolar tissue. upwards, they also give ofT other capillaries; which surround the tubes, at all parts of their height, with a second and deeper net- work. The meshes of this latter plexus are somewhat oblong, but less decidedly so than those of the capillary network of striped muscle; and are about Tjjoth to ^-^th °f an inch in size. The capillaries which compose them are, on an average, little more than -jJ^jth of an inch in diameter. The more superficial network is contrasted with this deeper one, not only in the fact that its capil- laries are about double the above diameter (or y 4