102 PANCREAS h. The alkali consists of a large quantity 99-1 Y 00-9 Water - - - - Animal matter soluble in alcohol Animal matter soluble in water Traces of albumen Mucus - Free soda Chloride of sodium Chloride of potassium Phosphate of lime - -J Oxide of iron - - a trace 100-0 " Mot content," say these observers, " with this first experiment, we undertook a second with the same success*, and the results fur- nished by analyses were absolutely the same : from which we infer that the pancreatic juice possesses a perfect analogy with the saliva both of man and the horse, these two liquids containing absolutely the same fixed principles, nitrogenous and saline, and almost exactly the same quantity of water.-)- The attempts of these authors to obtain the pancreatic secre- tion of a dog, after the manner of De Graaf, were all unsuccessful; ten times they tried, and as often faded ; a few drops were all they could procure. Their data, therefore, are all taken from the secretion as they found it in the horse. Tiedemann and Gmelin J obtained the pan- creatic fluid from the dog, the sheep, and the horse — that is, from one carnivorous and two herbivorous animals ; and their results present the most striking discrepancies with those of the contemporaneous experiments of Lenret and Lassaigne. In the dog this fluid, which was obtained abundantly, was limpid, with a faint blueish, opalescent cast, and a mucilaginous feeling like the white of egg diluted with water, a slight but sensibly saline taste, the first por- tion faintly acid, the portion last secreted slightly alkaline, and so abundantly albumi- nous as to be rendered semi-solid by heat nitric acid, &c. A hundred parts of the se- cretion contained — Solids - - 8-72 Water - - 91-28 100-00 100 parts of solid matter contained Organic substances, osmazome with a peculiar animal matter coloured red by chlorine (with alkaline acetates and chlorides) - Caseous substance, possibly with another animal substance, solu- ble in water, but not in alcohol (with salts of soda) Albumen, with a small quantity of salts - - - - 44-32 18-44 42-83 Es xccedinn; 105-59 5-59 * They do not say the quantity they obtained this time. t Loo. cit. p. 106. j Recherches Expe'rimentales Physiologiqnes et Chimiques sur la Digestion. Jourdan's transla- tion, p. 24. et seq. The secretion of the sheep was acid, and, like the other, ropy between the fingers like white of egg, and limpid ; it was perfectly so- lidified by heat, and contained — Solids (desiccated) 5'19 Water - - 94 81 100 00 Of these solids nearly 60 per cent, were albumen. The secretion in the horse resem- bled in all its reactions that of the sheep, except that the albumen was not so abundant. The summary conclusions at which these authors arrive, are that the pancreatic fluid contains — 1. In solids, in the dog 8-72, in the sheep 5 per cent. 2. The solids consist of — a. A large amount of albumen, about half of the dry residuum. b. Osmazome. c. A substance reddened by chlorine, found only in the dog. d. A caseous substance, probably allied to salivary matter. e. A small amount of free acid, probably acetic, present in all these specimens. It is worthy of remark, that that por- tion of the pancreatic fluid which was secreted last was slightly alkaline : this change probably depended on the enfeeblement of the nervous influence resulting from the operation. The ash consisted of alkaline carbo- nate, chloride, phosphate, and sulphate, and carbonate and phosphate of lime. The alkaline sulpho-cyanide is not met with in the pancreatic secretion. of potash, and a very small portion of soda salts. If we compare the composition of the pan- creatic secretion in the dog and the sheep with that of the saliva, we find the following differences :—■ 1. The solid residue of the saliva does not equal half that of the pancreas. 2. The saliva contains mucus and a peculiar animal (sa/ivari/) matter. If it contains al- buminous or caseous matter, these subtances are, in every case, in very small quantit}'. On the contrary, the pancreatic fluid contains an abundance of albumen and caseous matter, but not a trace of mucus, and true salivary matter, if it exists, is in very small quantity. 3. The saliva is neutral, or contains a little alkaline carbonate. The pancreatic secretion contains a little free acid. 4. The saliva contains sulpho-cyanide of potassium; in the pancreatic fluid there is none. 5. The other salts are nearly the same. 6. It results, therefore, that those physio- logists who think the pancreatic secretion identical with saliva are in error. There is, then, an entire discrepancy be- tween these two authorities with regard to the pancreatic secretion —its physical quali- ties, reaction, amount of solids, chemical con- stitution, the conclusions they infer, &c. / g-