OVARY — (Abnormal Anatomy). M9 It is not necessary to multiply these ex- amples, for no additional points of evidence could be produced which are not contained in the foregoing cases. They have been selected from instances related or quoted by various authors who have been strongest in their advocacy of the doctrine of a strict ovarian gestation, and they serve to exhibit the kind of evidence upon which that doctrine is founded. All the cases which have been employed to support this view* will be found on examination to belong to one or other of the following divisions : — 1. Cases of cysts without any embryo, and in which some supposed resemblance has been traced between the cyst walls and fatal mem- branes, without any conclusive evidence of the presence of these structures being given. rian cyst. The walls of the sac showed no separa- tion into distinct membranes, and no trace whatever of the structures characteristic of either chorion, chorion-villi, amnion, or decidua could be discovered in them. The outer surface of the cyst was so firmly ad- herent to the surrounding ovarian stroma that it could only be separated from it by considerable traction. The connecting medium was the common stroma of the ovary. The walls of the cyst, when portions were examined by transmitted light, ex- hibited the arrangement of vessels peculiar to ova- rian cysts. The little slender depending fragment, supposed to be a rudimental umbilical cord, and very faithfully represented by Dr. Granville in Plate VIll. of the work quoted in the text, proved to be a narrow flap of the same cyst wall which had been left hanging from the edge of the sac where a por- tion had evidently been originally cut away in order more fully to display the preparation (the sharp edge left here by the knife or scissors being very distinctly seen). Upon transverse section of this little fragment, no trace of umbilical vessels could be found in it. It should be observed that Sir Charles Clarke never published an account of this case. The additional particulars which I am enabled to give with regard to the last of the four cases quoted in the text, and described in the Transactions of the Royal College of Physicians for 1820, are of another kind. That this preparation was formerly preserved in the anatomical museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where the author of the case was also the lecturer on anatomy, can scarcely be doubted, from the description, exactly according with it, which appears in the first edition of the Catalogue drawn up by Mr. Stanley. (See Description of the Pre- parations contained in the Museum of St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital, 1831. Edited by Edward Stanley, Esq. Preparation 64, series xx. p. 27.) This pre- paration is no longer contained in the museum ; and l>3' those who are most likely to be informed upon the subject, it is not known to be in existence. The only clue that I can obtain as to its fate is derived from Mr. Paget, who informs me that, as a step pre- liminary to the formation of the new catalogue, printed in two volumes in 1846-51, the entire ana- tomical collection was carefully reexamined; and that those preparations which were found, upon such examination, not to bear out the descriptions given of them in the catalogue, or which did not serve to illustrate any point of interest, were put aside and condemned. There is, therefore, every probability that this preparation, which can now no longer be appealed to in support of the possibility of ovarian gestation, has been subjected to a similar ordeal to the former, and with a like result. * A large collection is contained in the work of Dr. Campbell just cited. 2. Cases of dermoid cysts containing fat, hair, teeth, and bones, the nature and origin of which, independent of pregnancy, have been already considered. 3. Cases in which the evidence is more or less complete that a foetus is or has been con- tained in a cavity of, or connected with the ovary. Of the latter, as already stated, those alone suffice for examination in which the cyst has continued unattached to surrounding parts, and has remained unaffected by dis- integrating and destructive processes. In this category would still be found, in all pro- bability, a sufficient number of cases amply to have determined the question in dispute, if such methods of investigation had been pursued as the present state of anatomical and physiological science demands for the settlement of doubtful points ; for in a considerable number of cases it is rendered evident that the foetus is contained within a sac in some way connected with or occu- pying more or less the usual seat of the ovary. Here, therefore, the question is re- duced to very narrow limits, Are these sacs formed within and at the expense of the proper ovarian structures, or are they adven- titious cysts growing externally to, although connected with these structures?* If strictly within the ovary, and formed of it or of its parts, then ovarian gestation in the strict sense obtains. But this has not yet been anatomically demonstrated in such a manner as to set all objections at rest; for neither have the blood-vessels been injected in order to ascertain their new relations and distri- bution, nor have the tissues been micro- scopically examined, without which exami- nation it would be hardly possible to determine of what parts the foetus-bearing sac is com- posed. Nor have the exact limits of the serous and albugincan coats, nor the relations of the sac to the remaining ovarian tissues, nor the precise mode of connection of the fatal membranes with the sac, been accurately traced. Nor has the condition of the yellow or corpus luteum coat of the follicle, of which brief mention only is made in one instance, been carefully examined ; yet this is a point of the greatest interest and importance, be- cause, if true ovarian gestation ever occurs, then the 3'ellow ovisac would become the decidua, and the outer fibrous coat of the follicle, together with the ovarian tunics and stroma, would be the uterus of the ovum. But in the present state of our knowledge it can- not be said that the subject of ovarian ges- tation stands in any other position than that of an open question, the chief points of in- terest regarding which may be thus stated :— The unimpregnated ovum is known to quit the ripe Graafian follicle by passing through an aperture spontaneously made in the walls of the follicle and of the ovary, in order to enter the Fallopian tube and uterus, in one of which canals it is afterwards impregnated. * Tt is thought by Boehmer that these eases might be divided into external and internal.