178 PELVIS. Translation; — Osteologie and Syndesmologie, par M. Saemmerring; Mechanique des Organes de la Lo- comotion, par &. and E. Weber, vol. ii.—Developpe- ment de l'Homme et des Mammiferes, par Bisehoff, vol. viii. Borelto, de Motu Animalium. Weber, W. and E., Mechanik der Menschlichen Gehwerk- zeuge, Gottingen, 1836. Memoirs de l'Institnte, torn, vi., 1806.—-Tenon, Memoir sur les Os du Bassin de la Femme, p. 149. Sandifort, De Pelve ejus in partu dilatatione. Naegele, Des principaux Vices de Conformation du Bassin, traduit par Danyan,Paris, 1840.—Das weibliche Becken, Garlsruhe, 1825. Dr. Jr. Hunter, on the Symphysis Pubis, London Medical Observer and Inquirer, vol. ii., No. 28. Levret, l'Art des Accouchments, Paris, 1753. Boivin, Madame, Memoir de l'Art des Accouchments. Murphy, Lectures on Parturition, 1845. Rams- bofham, Obstetric Medicine and Surgery. Churchill, Theory and Practice of Midwifery, 1842. Rudiments of Civil Engineering, by H. Law, Civ. Eng. Grant's Outlines of Comparative Anatomy. Cams, —Introduction to Comparative Anatomy,—by Gore. Wagner's Elements of Comparative Anatomy,— by Talk, 1845. Cuvier's Ossements Fossils; Eegne Animal; Leeons dAnatom. Comp. Owen's Hunte- rian Lectures, vol. ii.; Homology of the Vertebrate Skeleton ; Osteography of Pithee.i, and Anatomy of Apteryx and Mylodon in the Transactions of the Zoological Society, vol. i. and ii. Btainville's Oste- ogr'aphie Compare'e. Knox, in Lancet, 1839-40, and in Medical Gazette, 1843. Oken's Physico- Philosophy by Talk. Carh/le, Report of British Association, 1837, p. 112. IJugis, Recherches sur les Batraciens, Paris, 1835. Le Galhns, Experience* sur la Vie (Appendix). Pritchard's Physical His- tory of Mankind, 1836, 3rd ed. Pelvis, Abnormal Anatomy of the.— From the close relation of this structure to the processes of child-bearing, the most im- portant of the alterations to which it is liable by disease, are such as produce deformity and obstruction of the passages, and occurring in the female subject. In the experience of Dr. Robert Lee, about one-sixth of all the cases of difficult parturition in London, depend upon contraction of the pelvis from arrest of development or distortion. In the male sub- ject, they are interesting mainly as to the light they may throw upon the processes and me- chanisms of the abnormal changes. On reviewing a good collection of abnor- mal pelves, we find them susceptible of the following classification, of which the prin- cipal part are interesting chiefly to the obste- trician, but, in a great degree, to the surgeon and general pathologist also. Pelvic Deformities and Obstructions. — Deformities of the pelvis, properly so called, are all such departures from the adult "stan- dard," in size, build, and conformation, as are sufficiently marked to influence child- bearing. They have been variously arranged, but seem to fall best under two heads: viz.— ].'Normal irregularities—including all those which present the shape and proportions pro- per to the healthy pelvis at some period of its development ; and,—2. Distortions,—including all such peculiar alterations of shape and size as are consequent upon disease or injury. L Normal irregularities may be subdivided into,—Equable deviations, in which the general form and appearance are similar, and the dia- meters proportionate to those of the " standard'" pelvis ; and,—Irregularities from imperfect de- velopment, in which the shape deviates from, and the diameters are not in proportion to, those of the "standard," Equable deviations.—" Pelvis equabiliter justo major."—The irregularity in this pelvis con- sists in all the diameters being in excess. It is not uncommon. Burns records one ex- ample. Dr. Murphy has another in his pos- session, and there is in the Museum of King's College a third, the brim of which measures 6 inches transversely, by 5 inches antero- posterior!^'. The largest hitherto recorded is one by Giles de la Tournette, who gives in. The distance between iliac crests - - 12% „ Antero-posterior diam. of brim - 5£ „ Transverse diam. of do. - 6|- Both the diameters of the inferior outlet - 5% The disadvantages of this pelvis are said to be prolapse and displacement of the viscera, sudden expulsion of the foetus, inversion of the uterus, and want of the proper impress of rotation on the head. Retroversion of the uterus and its prolapse in the impregnated state, are said by some to be most commonly ob- served in large pelves. " Pelvis equabiliter justo minor. "— In this pelvis, all the diameters are proportion- ately diminished. The diminution is said, by Churchill, to be generally about one-fourth. Naegele thinks it to be more common than had been supposed by Bandelocque and other writers on midwifery. Velpean gives two cases of " Etroitesse absolue " (Journal Com- plementaire), in which the diminution was so great that one woman died undelivered, and the other underwent the Cresarian operation. It was considered by Alexander Shaw *, that proportionable contraction of the pelvic di- ameters is very common in rickety subjects, from want of proper osseous development, and that it is generally accompanied by correspond- ing diminution of the size of the bones of the lower extremities. The experience of Rokitan- sky also favours the opinion that this propor- tionate contraction, without distortion of the pelvis, may be produced by rickets. Naegele, however, records three female pelves affeeted with this deformity, which presented no ap- pearance whatever of rickety change, neither in strength, weight, nor texture, one being even heavier than usual; nor were there any rickety symptoms in their history. Two of the subjects died after severe instrumental labour ; and the third, after one miscarriage, died undelivered of the second conception, from rupture of the uterus ; comparison with the child's head afterwards showing, that de- livery of a living child would have been im- possible without the Caesarian section. The diameters were generally above an inch less than the standard measurement. The ages of these subjects were from twenty-three to thirty-two years, showing that the contraction was an adult deformity. They were also about or above the average height. Women of low stature, indeed, have most commonly large pelves as well as large heads, and are not more liable to this deformity than those * Med. Chirurg. Transaciions, vol. xvii.