466 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. cited by Volkmann, fed several frogs with worms and immediately destroyed the spinal cord: on opening the animal twenty-four hours afterwards, the stomach was found distended with tough slimy matters : if, on the other hand, forty-eight hours were al- lowed to elapse before the stomach was examined, it was found almost empty, part of the contents having been probably ab- sorbed, while part had passed downwards into the intestinal canal. The continuance of the movements of the intestinal canal after the brain and spinal cord have been removed, would seem to indicate that these are not the immediate centres on which their contractions depend. The contractions which take place may be explained as due to the inherent irritability of the muscular fibres, while their type may be said to be owing to a peculiar arrangement of these, by which the contraction of one bundle acts as a stimulus to the neighbouring bundles, exciting these to contraction also, and in this way giving rise to the vermicular movements of the gut. It seems probable, however, that they are re- gulated by the ganglia of the sympathetic, especially since it has been observed by Henle*, that in pieces of the intestine which have been cutaway close to the line of attach- ment of the mesentery, the contractions pro- duced by application of local stimuli extend but a little way on either side of the point irritated, and are comparatively feeble. When a part of the mesentery is removed along with the portion of the intestine, they are more powerful and more extended, and are most so when the intestine and mesentery are left in their normal relations. Genito - urinary organs. — Contractions of the ureters have been frequently observed by Valentin f to follow irritation of the abdo- minal ganglia of the sympathetic. They pre- sent the same peristaltic character as those of the intestines, and pass downwards from the kidney towards the bladder. In the bladder contractions are more easily pro- duced than in the ureters: sometimes shortly after opening the abdominal cavity of an animal newly killed, the bladder contracts so powerfully as to give rise to an expulsion of its contents. Contractions may be excited in it, according to Valentin, by irritation ap- plied to the sympathetic cord in the abdomen or pelvis, or to the lower lumbar and upper sacral ganglia ; the contraction commonly commencing on that side of the bladder on which the nerves have been irritated. The last lumbar and first sacral ganglia are de- scribed by him as having most influence over its movements. In the vas deferens powerful contractions have been observed by Valentin when stimulus was applied to the two last lum- bar ganglia : the rabbit and guinea-pig were the animals on which this experiment was made. In the latter animal the vesiculae seminales were also excited to contraction by irritation applied to the lower lumbar and upper sacral * Allgemeine Anatomie, p. 724. t Op. cit. p. 4G8. portions of the sympathetic, sometimes so powerful as to expel the contents through the opening of the urethra. Stimulus ap- plied to the same parts in the female gives rise to contractions in the Fallopian tubes. The uterus may, according to the same ob- server, be excited to contraction by stimulus applied to the lower lumbar and upper sacral ganglia, or to the branches given off from these. The contraction in such cases passes downwards from the Fallopian tubes towards the vagina. In regard to the influence of the central parts of the nervous system over the move- ments of these organs, it would appear, from Valentin's experiments, that contractions may be excited in the urinary bladder by stimulus applied to the spinal cord. The ureters are also said to exhibit contractions when the wires of the magneto-electric appa- ratus are brought into contact with the me- dulla oblongata, or with the spinal cord in the cervical or thoracic regions, as also when they are applied to the right optic thalamus. The same also holds true, according to him, regarding the vasa deferentia, Fallopian tubes, and uterus. He has further observed, that often when the stimulus is applied to one side of the central nervous masses, it is the organ on the opposite side which is excited to contraction: thus stimulus applied to the right optic thalamus not unfrequently acts on the ureter of the left side ; in like manner, when the right hemisphere of the cerebellum is the part irritated the contractions some- times take place in the Fallopian tubes or vas deferens of the left side. These organs, however, like those already mentioned, exhibit their usual contractions after they are removed from the influence of the brain and spinal cord. The fact that in paraplegic women delivery has taken place, would appear to show that the contractions of the uterus are not dependent upon the cen- tral masses of the nervous system : this is aho shown by an experiment of Segalas*, that di- vision of the spinal cord in the lumbar region in the rabbit does not prevent the completion of the labour. Moreover, it would appear, from a series of experiments made by Pro- fessor Simpson of Edinburgh, that the whole process of labour may be completed, although the spinal cord has, in great part, been pre- viously removed. Pupil. — It was long ago ascertained by Pourfour du Petit f, that section of the main cord of the sympathetic in the neck is very quickly followed by contraction of the pupil, besides certain other phenomena. The same experiment has since been made by Molinelli, Dupuy, Reid, Valentin, and others. J Molinelli regarded the effect pro- duced upon the pupil not as an immediate effect of the operation, but as an after result; * Bulettin de I'Academie de Medicine, torn. vs.. p. 1124. f Histoire de I'Academie, 1727, 1729, Paris, p. 5. et seq. % See Budge, in Vierordt's Areliiv. fur physio- logische Heilkunde, 1852, Erganzungs Heft.