[12.3] OVUM. or less of a minutely tuberculated structure In others of the Nematoid Worms and more on its external surface. The ovum becomes especially in Strongylus and the Gordiacei, it of a regular short oval or nearly spherical would appear from the researches of Meiss- form. If fecundation shall have occurred, ner, that the first germs of ova which take the embryonic vesicle or cell makes its ap- origin in the uppermost part of the ovarian pearance, and the phenomena of segmentation tube multiply by an endogenous production, follow in rapid succession. and that in this manner groups or bunches of the primitive ova are produced which are con- Fig, 88*. nected together by pedicles arising from the Formation and fecundation of the ova of Nematoid Worms. {According to Meissner.') a. A portion of the ovarian axis and early ova attached to it from the ovarian tube of Strongylus armatus. The axis column occupies the centre of the tube, and the ova are suspended to it by pedicles, supposed by Meissner to form micropyle apertures when they are detached. b. View given by Meissner of a set of the nearly ripe ova of Ascaris mystax, which he conceives are thus connected by pedicles to a central axis. c. Two mature ova of the same surrounded and in part penetrated by spermatic corpuscles. At the narrow angles of these ova a spermatozoon is seen passing into the interior by what Meissner has regarded as a micropyle formed by the detached pedicle. In the ovum to the right a spermatic cor- puscle is seen in the vitelline substance. The existence of such a micropyle aperture and pedicu- lated attachment of the ova in the Ascarides I re- gard as doubtful. Fig. 89*. Formation of ova and fecundation in Gordius Sub- bifurcus. {From. Meissner.) a. A small portion of the ovarian tube with groups of the ova partly within and partly escaping from it. b. Three of the mature ova from the lower part of the oviduct surrounded by the spermatozoa. The ova are now isolated, and the pedicle of each is open, and is regarded by Meissner as a micropyle, by which spermatozoa, as represented in two of them, enter the ova. The germinal vesicle is still to be seen. elongated membrane of the original germ-cell which remains as a covering of the whole. A certain number of these ova make progress in development while others probably become abortive. As the ova enlarge they are more spread out in the tube and take something of the spiral disposition which exists in the Asca- rides, but with this difference, as already noted, that the various ova remain connected to- gether by the attachment of their pedicles to a central axis or stem running down the middle of the ovarian tube. On the subse- quent detachment of the ova by the break- ing of these pedicles, according to Meissner, a micropyle aperture is formed in each ovum for the admission of the spermatozoa. The accompanying drawings from Meissner's Memoir will give a sufficiently clear idea of his views on this subject. The ova of the nematoid worms constitute a marked example of the simpler kind of ovum in which the formative yolk is present, and ■