595 THE PAROVARIUM—(Normal Anatomy). Q Q 2 distinct from the duct of the Wolffian body (Jig. 400./). In the male, however, he has been able to detect no vas deferens distinct from the excretory duct of the corpus Wolffianum ; but on the contrary, the testis and the excre- tory duct of the former bod} seem to become connected by means of vasa efferentia. This is an important point, because it will be found so far to bear out the views of Kobtlt re- garding the homologies of these structures. In the mammalia generally, and in man, the Wolffian bodies are less extended. They, however, possess the same arrangement of transverse caecal tubes ( Jig. 401. a—d), ter- minating in the side of a common excretory duct (e), which leads from the lower extre- mity of the or<;an to the uro-genital sinus. These structures are all formed indepen- dently of the kidneys and supra-renal cap- sules, as well as of the ovaria and testes, which parts occupy the same relative position in mammalia as in birds. But here, according to Miiller's researches, a different arrangement is observed in regard to the efferent duct of the generative portion of these structures. At first the oviduct and the vas deferens have each the same confor- mation, and each terminates by a free extre- mity. This, in the female, merely acquires an open mouth, and thus the Fallopian tube is formed, the ovary continuing, as at first, distinct and separate. But in the male the efferent tube and the testis become connected by transverse vessels, which are afterwards converted into the coni vasculosi of the epi- didymis, whilst the rest of that organ is com- posed of the convolutions of the efferent tube itself. " The Wolffian bodies entirely dis- appear in both sexes, and are not converted into any other organ." * These views, however, leave unexplained many peculiarities which are observable in the permanent condition of the parts or or- gans developed from the foetal structures ; and it is the great merit of Kobelt's re- searches that they serve to render these in- telligible. According to this observer, there exists, in the earliest periods of intra-uterine life, a condition of indistinction of sex in every in- dividual. This depends upon a temporary co-existence in each individual of all the ele- ments of the reproductive structures. For at the highest point of sexual indifference, that is, shortly before the beginning of the division of sex, the Wolffian bodies consist of — 1. The so-called caecal tubes (Jig. 401. a—cl). 2. Of the common duct (e) running along the outer side of this body, into which the caecal tubes open. 3. And of a second longer cord (/;), which begins in a blind pouch (i), and takes its course inwards over the Wolffian body, pa- rallel with the excretory duct of the latter (e), in order to enter the uro-genital canal (x), by a separate orifice (k). This last cord, * Mailer's Physiology, by Baly, p. 1637. discovered by John Miiller, is throughout destitute of any connection with the caecal pouches. (See also Jig. 400. g.) Fig. 401. The left Wolfflan bod;/ at the period of indistinction of sex. (After Kobelt.) a a, entire collection of its component tubules divisible into three sets, viz., b, upper; c, middle; d, lower set; e, excretory duct of tlie Wolffian body into which all the tubules open, subsequently con- verted into vas deferens in the male, and becoming atrophied in the female; /, terminal bulb of the same, becoming afterwards the so-called hydatid, often seen attached, in the male, to the head of the epididymis (fig. 402. /), and in the female to the broad ligament (fig- 403. f and 408.(7 ); 9i open- ingof theWolffian body into x, the uro-genital canal; //, duet of Miiller, afterwards Fallopian tube in the female, and becoming atrophied in the male; i, ter- minal bulb of the same, becoming the hydatid of Mor- gagni (fig. 402. i) in the male, and the hydatid often seen depending from the mouth of the Fallopian tube in the female (Fig. 403. i and 3G8. ee ); It, junc- tion of the duct of Miiller with the uro-genital canal; * shows the subsequent horizontal position of this duct when it has become Fallopian tube. The organ destined for the preparation of the reproductive material, the generative gland, (fig. 401. / ), consists of a longish, clearly defined structure, lying upon the inner side of the Wolffian body, so as to cover a portion of the bulbs of the caecal pouches. Its white colour serves to distinguish it, at a glance, from the yellowish brown Wolffian body. As yet, no material nor actual distinc- tion of sex can be discovered in any one of these parts ; and yet the whole already con- tains all the elements of the male, as well as of the female, reproductive apparatus, without any true exhibition of bi-sexuality. The nature of the first impulse towards a division of sex, in one or other direction, is unknown, but the subsequent separation ma- nifests itself with the commencing distinctive development, and correlative retrogression of each several clement ; for the cardinal organ, the generative gland {Jig.401.1), may be con- verted into testis (Jig. 402. /), or ovary (fig. 403. /), and through the doubly existing ex- cretory duct of this gland, viz. the duct of Miiller (Jig. 401. h), for the female, and the