OVUM. [97 torn. ii. 1824, p. 104. X Epistola de Ovi, &c, Fig. xxv. disappearance. He attributed their origin, therefore, to this source ; and regarded it as probable that these cells, which may perhaps be descendants of the original maculae of the germinal vesicle (but this is a point which he leaves undetermined), constitute afterwards the nuclei round which the tabular and granu- lar substance of the yolk group themselves; and thus probably form, subsequent to seg- mentation, the nuclei or foundation of the cells which are the seat of true embryonic development. Newport's description of these changes differs somewhat from that of Cramer, but is not altogether at variance with the view now suggested as to the nature of the process with which they are connected. He states *, that towards the period of maturity he found the germinal vesicle filled with secondary cells, and that each of these contained other or tertiary cells within them, and in the in- terior of these last were granules which he called quaternary. " In the midst of these numerous cells, and in the centre of the ger- minal vesicle, I was able to distinguish," says he, "in some specimens, one or two cells of larger size than the rest, and which I regarded as the remains of the germinal spot or cen- tral nucleus." He further states f, that these internal cells were, he conceived, afterwards thrown loose by the solution of the parent cells. As to the mode of disappearance of the germinal vesicle, Von Baer had stated]'; that, it gradually rises from its deeper situation, towards the surface of the yolk, and that, finally bursting or being dissolved there, its contents are allowed to flow over the sur- face of the yolk. This process he also described in several other animals as pro- ceeding in a similar manner; and he sup- posed that the germinal substance from the vesicle was thus diffused over that part of the ovum which is most closely related to the subsequent changes of development. He re- garded the canal of the yolk as the remains of a passage through which the vesicle had been carried to the surface. Newport, on the other hand, is quite confident that no such passage of the vesicle to the surface occurs in the ova of Batrachia, and that the vesicle most pro- bably dissolves or disappears in its situation below the germinal part of the yolk. From the facts he has pointed out, Newport in- fers that the germinal vesicle is burst or de- stroyed by the development of the progeny of cells within it, and that the cells thus set free are mingled with the rest of the yolk. It belongs rather to the history of the changes which the ovum undergoes after fecundation, than to our present subject, to trace the re- lation between the cell progeny of the germinal vesicle now described, and the cells of em- bryonic formation afterwards developed ; but it may be proper here merely to mention that * Loc. cit. p. 176. t Loc. cit. p. 177. Stipp. from the concurrent testimony of several ob- servers, it seems probable that the origin of the blastodermic cells is closely connected with a combination of the vesicles or cells from the germinal vesicle with the other solid elements of the yolk-substance. To this process of cell formation the change of seg- mentation seems, in the Batrachia, as in all other animals, to be the necessary prelude. It may be proper here also to state, in conclusion, that Newport has shown that the process of segmentation begins by a fis- sure which passes in a determinate direction through the canal of the yolk. Although the statement of Prevost and Du- mas as to the existence of an aperture in the membranes of the ovum, through which they supposed the spermatozoa might be introduced in fecundation, has not yet been confirmed by subsequent observers, but has on the contrary, met with an explicit denial from Von Baer, Newport, and Remak, after a very careful examination by these authors ; and although it would appear, from New- port's statement, that the spermatozoa penetrate the vitelline membrane of the frog's egg over a considerable portion of its surface, yet the discoveries which have in the last few years been made as to the ex- istence of the micropyle in fishes and some other animals, are of so unexpected a kind, that we must not regard this point as altoge- ther settled. Dr. Ransom, indeed, in some observations communicated to me, has stated his belief that a micropyle may still be dis- covered in the membrane, of the Batrachian ovum. The statement of Prevost and Du- mas on this subject is so precise that it deserves to be recorded in their own words. — " On remarque ensuite qu'il existe au centre de l'hemisphere brun une tache circulaire tres reguliere, jaune, et marquee d'un point opaque dans son milieu. Celuici provient d'un petit trou dont les deux mem- branes sont percees, ee qui met a. decouvert la bouillie brune que renferme l'ovule. Pour s'en assurer il suffit de vider l'oeuf et d'exa- miner a la loupe les membranes transparentes qui sont restees intactes dans toutes leurs parties, sauf l'endroit qu'on a pique pour evacuer la pulpe qu'elles contenaient." * The observations of Von Baer, Rusconi, Newport, and myself have shown that with certain differences in the form and structure of the external membranes, the colour of the yolk-substance, &c, previously referred to, the structure of the ovum, and the phenomena of change at the time- of its discharge, are essen- tially the same in the Newts as in the common Frog. A few observations which I have made on the Menobranchus lateralis and Siredon mexicanum, show that the Perennibran- chiate Amphibia agree very closely with the * See Deuxieme Memoire sur la Generation:— Developpement de l'oeuf des Batraciens, &c, par MM. Prevost et Dumas, in Annal. des Scien. Nat.