682 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. characterise it in infancy or childhood. Such may be the condition of the entire internal organs, as in the accompanying example (Jig. 465.) of the undeveloped uterus from a female aged 19, who had never menstruated. In these cases, the body generally exhibits a corresponding feebleness of growth, and the sexual attributes are little, if at all, dis- played. The infantine condition of the uterus is here exhibited in every particular. The proportionately large size of the cervix, b, the small triangular uterine cavity, a, with a raphe extending into it, and the thin parietes, are precisely such as are usually found in the infantine organ. In the last case, the ovaries exhibit also their ordinary infantine proportions ; but these may become developed, and the func- tions of menstruation may proceed naturally, while the external characteristics also are those of a well-formed female, but the uterus remains small, the vagina is short, and instead of terminating in the usual fornix, with a pro- jecting cervix, this canal ends in an aperture, which just admits a sound or probe, and is not furnished with the usual lips of the os tincae. These cases usually result in sterile marriage, and may be easily detected during life. Anomalies of form. — Deviations from the ordinary form of the uterus which are ac- quired during life, and do not proceed from original malformation, or imperfect develop- ment, such as that last noticed, wiil be here considered. The angular flexions of the uterus which lake the definite forms of a forward or back- ward curve, or of an inflexion towards either side, are distinguished as anti- and retro- flexion and lateral inflexion. a. Antiflexion of the uterus is that condition of the organ in which, without any material change of position in the cervix, the body is bent forwards, so that the fundus,lying more or Fig. 466. Antiflexion of the uterus. (After Bo'win and Dugis.*) The point of flexure is at the junction of the body with the cervix. Both canals are laid open. (The figure is viewed from the right side.) less horizontally, is directed towards the sym- physis pubis, while, according to the degree of inflexion, the anterior wall of the uterus is brought near to, or in contact with, the cervix in front, while the posterior wall looks up- wards, corresponding more or less with the plane of the pelvic brim. The point of cur- vature is always at the line of junction of the body with the cervix uteri, and here an angle more or less acute is formed. Fig. 466., giving a lateral view of the anti- flexed uterus, exhibits the relative situation of its various parts when this deformity exists in the highest degree. Now a slight amount of antiflexion of the body upon the cervix has been shown by Jigs. 426. and 433. to be natural to the uterus ; and it is not until one or two pregnancies have supervened, that this forward tendency, when excessive, is lost, and hardly even then, for the uterus may still retain that correspondence in form, with the curvature forwards of the pelvic cavity, which is so prominently ex- pressed in the curve of the sacrum, and is in accordance with the normal form of the ute- rine canal. In the fetus (fig- 467.), and during early infancy, antiflexion exists as a Fig. 467. Natural state of antiflexion of the uterus in. fatal and infantine life. (After Bourgery.) a,body, and b, fundus of the uterus; c, point of junctionof body and cervix ; d, cervix; e, os tinc;e ; /, vagina; g, hymen ; j, bladder ; k, rectum ; I, Fal- lopian tube ; n, symphysis pubis ; m, labium. normal state, and it appears to me that this bias towards a forward inflexion of the uterus at the early periods of life is given by that remarkable bending forwards of the lower ex- tremity of the spine which is observable in the early embryo. The part containing the structures that are afterwards developed into the uterus exhibits then an abrupt curve, which at this early period will probably be impressed upon the organs within, and being abnormally