UJERUS — (Development). 661 form. He rather conceives that a reduction so takes place, that either the contents of the nerve fibre are partly or entirely removed by resorption, so that there remains, according to circumstances, a partly or entirely empty sheath ; or that the contents of the fibre are transformed in the same manner that Giinther and Schon (Henle, Allgemeine Anat. p. 771.) observed in divided nerves; viz. that the contents of the tubules become coagulated, as after death, and are then subject to resorption: the fibre appearing then to be perishing, and ribbon-like, and the contents to be disappear- ing. Regarding the human uterus, he thinks it in the highest degree probable, that the nerve fibre is included in the energetic resorp- tion process that affects the puerperal uterus generally; that a reduction of the fibre fol- lows; and that, in the next pregnancy, it again becomes developed pari passu with the development of the other tissues. f. The uterus after the menstrual epoch, and in old age. — Whether the uterus has been employed, in its ultimate office, in the pro- cess of reproduction, viz. that of gestation, or whether it has proceeded only so far towards this as to have been limited to the repetition, in unvarying succession, of that preparatory stage which is expressed by the minor func- tion of menstruation, in either case the period equally arrives at which the activity of the organ passes away. Ova are no longer dis- charged from the ovaries. These cease to be creative or developing organs ; and with this cessation of the proper function of the ovary, there comes also a corresponding diminution, and finally a termination of the correlative offices of the uterus. It is now interesting to observe how the uterus gradually resumes some of the pecu- liar features which it exhibited at an earlier period of life. It may be said to fall back again into its infantine condition. For with the shrivelling of the ovaries, and their reduc- ing. 456. The uterus in old age; showing a return to the infantine proportions between the body and cervix. o, the shrivelled ovaries. This figure exhibits the parts of half the natural size. {Ad Nat.) tion to a size as small sometimes as that of a child of two or three years, {fig- 456.) the ute- rus also gradually shrinks, not in all its parts, but principally in the body, or that portion which is chiefly employed in the processes of menstruation and gestation. This part be- comes atrophied more than the rest; its walls become thinner, partly from diminished circulation in them, and partly from atrophy of the component tissues, which appear pale and nearly bloodless. Thus it happens that, in advanced life, the walls of the uterine body, no longer possessing that fulness which at an earlier period caused them to encroach upon the cavity, and to exhibit that incurvation of the sides and fundus which has been described as characteristic of the mature organ, again re- turn to the straight and more attenuated con- dition which they had in early life. We may often observe, therefore, in the uterus of aged persons, a nearer approach to the form of the equilateral triangle, caused by the short- ening of the body and the straightening of its walls, than is seen in the uterine cavity of mid- life ; and it is this return to the form of the foetal cavity, together with the now prepon- derating size of the cervix, which remains Fig. 457. Thinning of the uterine walls in old ac/e, and return to the triangular form of the cavity'characteristic of the infantine (fig. 442.) and undeveloped uterus {fig. 465). {Ad Nat. Half the natural size.) nearly unchanged, that gives to the aged ute- rus its greatest similitude to that of infancy or early youth.