121 PELVIS. than in the true vertebrae, and are first ma- nifest in the bodies of the three upper {Jig- «, a), at the second or third month of foetal life, and in the two lower at the fourth or fifth month. The lateral points are de- veloped between the sixth and ninth foetal months, and are united to the bodies (each after joining with its fellow opposite at the spinous tubercle) at from the second to the sixth years of age, beginning, according to Quain and Sharpey, at the lowest or fifth ver- tebra, and going upwards. Besides these, there are two characteristic points of ossification found in each of the three first sacral vertebra?, which are placed immediately above the three upper anterior sacral holes, exactly in the line of pressure from the ilia to the median line (li). These appear, from above down- wards, at the same time as the posterior la- teral centres just described. They unite first with the posterior lateral osseous points of their respective vertebra?, and with them join their respective central masses. Consequently, the three first sacral vertebrae have each five primary ossific centres, and the two last, each only three; the whole number of primary points of ossification in the sacrum being thus twenty-one. At the age of sixteen years, the epiphysial or complementary ossific points begin to form, viz.: — On each articulating surface of the bodies of the sacral vertebra; is developed, as in the true vertebrae, a horizontal plate of bone, which, after coalescing with the bodies to which they respectively belong, finally (ex- cept the first and last) become soldered to each other from below upwards, commencing with the two last vertebra?., at from the six- teenth to the eighteenth years, and com- pleting the formation of the sacral bone by the union of the two first vertebra?, at from the twenty-fifth to the thirtieth years. Be- tween the eighteenth and the twentieth years begins the formation, by scattered granules, of four lateral plates of bone — one on each side, forming the iliac articular surfaces, opposite to the three first vertebra?—and one on each side, opposite the two last. These unite with the sacral bone about the same time that its upper vertebra? coalesce. The number of complementary points of ossification in the sacrum will thus be found to he fourteen, and the total number of sacral ossific centres thirty-five. M. Weber, however, assigns nine [joints of ossification to the first, seven to the second, and five to each of the three lower. The coccyx is ossified by a single centre for each of its four pieces. Occasionally, in one of the upper are two ossific points. That of the highest piece first appears about the time of birth; that of the second bone is next evident, according to Beclard, at from five to ten ) ears of age; the third, at from ten to fifteen years; and the fourth, at from fifteen to twenty. The two upper first unite together, then the two lower, the bone being consoli- dated by the union of the two resulting por- tions at various periods of life. In advanced life, and, more frequently, in the male subject, this hone is often found ankylosed to the sacrum. According to M. Weber, each coc- cygeal vertebra has two to four points of ossification. Pelvic Articulations and Ligaments. — The articulations of the pelvis arrange them- selves into; 1. those connecting the pelvis with the spinal column, or lumbo-pelvic articu- lations ; 2. those of the pelvic bones with each other, or proper pelvic articulations ; 3. those connecting them with the thigh bones, or femoro-pelvic articulations. The second class of articulations are those with which we have more immediately to do. The first class may be alluded to as necessary for elucidation of the subject. The last class come more particularly under the consideration of the hip joint. The ligaments of the pelvis are of twt kinds: I. those which are closely connectei with the several articulations, or intimate liga- ments; and, 2. those which connect distant portions of its osseous structure, and are com- plementary to the articulations or accessory ligaments. The former will be best described with the articulations of which they form part. Lumbo-pelvic articulations.— The sacrum, and through it the pelvis, is united to the last lumbar vertebra by exactly the same mean; as the vertebra? to each other, viz.:—First by an amphi-arthrodial joint, composed of a thick disc of fibro-cartilage intervening between, and adherent to. their opposing articular surfaces ; and strengthened by a continuation of the anterior and posterior common ligaments to the sacrum. Secondly, by two arthrodial joints invested with capsular ligaments, one for each of the articular pro- cesses. Thirdly, by the lowest members of the ligamenta subflava connecting the lamina? of the vertebra? with those of the sacrum, and by the lowest inter-spinous and supra- spinous ligaments connecting their spines. And, lastly, by an accessory ligament, which is a representative of the inter-transverse or oblique transverso-costal ligaments. This extends fron> the lower border of the last lumbar transverse process on each side, to the lateral masses of the base of the sacrum, its fibres expanding to the sacro-iliac S}m- physis and iliac crest. It is called the sacro- veriebral or lumbosacral ligament. The fibro-cartilaginous disc is composed, like the other intervertebral plates, of an obliquely intersecting layer of fibres externally, and of a central, soft, pulpy portion, and differs only by gradually becoming much thicker ante- riorly, like the body of the last lumbar ver- tebra itself. This allows of the curve of the spinal column at this part, which is the most salient point of the sacro-vertebi al angie. The movements of this joint are a limited antero-posterior motion with slight lateral flexure, somewhat less than that of the rest of the spinal column. Proper or infra-pelvic articulations.— These consist of a joint uniting the sacrum and coccyx by a miniature amphi-arthrosis; of a joint on each side uniting the sacrum to