PANCREAS. 113 oiliary ducts; the liver gorged with bile- fungoid disease attacking the head of the pancreas; anil malignant ulceration on the surface of the duodenum. The question to be solved is, upon which of the conditions indicated or caused by these morbid changes, if upon either, the peculiarity of the alvine evacu- ations depended ? That the obstruction of the biliary ducts, or even the total absence of all indication of biliary secretion, is not usually attended by the same peculiarity in the eva- cuations, many cases which have been cau- tiously detailed by various authors, and many which we have all observed, bear sufficient testimony ; and I was therefore induced to ascribe it, either to the existence of malig- nant disease, or to that disease being situated in the pancreas. That the simple fact of malignant disease existing is not necessarily productive of such appearances in the fecu- lent matter, I infer from eases both of that form of disease and of melanosis in the liver to a very great extent being, within the scope of my experience, unaccompanied by any such discharge, though the evacuations were sub- mitted to the most rigid observation. That simple ulceration in the bowels to any known extent, is not attended by any such symptom I am led to believe from knowing that neither in the most extensive ulceration of the large intestines in cases of dysentery, nor in the worst cases of ulceration of the small intes- tines in fever, in diarrhoea, or in phthisis, does anything of the kind occur. Whether, how- ever, malignant ulceration of the mucous membrane is accompanied by this symptom I cannot assert, though I have often seen most extensive ulcers of the pylorus and of the rectum, where, although the evacuations were attentively observed, such fatty matter was not detected. As, however, a malignant ulceration of membrane did exist in each of the foregoing cases, it is not impossible that this was the cause of this symptom ; but we must bear in mind that such ulcerations are by no means uncommon, and that the pheno- menon of which I am speaking is uncommon ; and that in each of the cases it was accom- panied by another morbid appearance, which is not common ; namely, the malignant disease of the pancreas. The fact of the intestinal ulceration having in each case occupied the duodenum does, however, somewhat diminish the weight of this observation, for that cer- tainly is not so frequent an occurrence." By this process of elimination, and by the in- stance of other cases more or less analogous, Dr. Bright conceives that we may bring the circumstances of the diseased structure in connection with this symptom within a nar- row limit — " disease, prubab/i/ malignant, of that part of the pancreas which is near the duodenum; and ulceration of the duodenum itxelf." To this conclusion, however, so care- fully arrived at, subsequent observation has shown that exception must be taken : cases that have occurred since the publication of Dr. Bright's paper, and even quite recently, have proved that neither the malignant cha- Supp. ractcr of the disease nor ulceration of the duodenum is necessary to the production of the fatty stools. In a case in which fatty stools occurred, communicated to the Society of Medicine of Boston *, in one reported by Dr. Alfred Clarke, of Twickenham, in the Lancet for August 16. 1851, and in one re- ferred to by Dr. Kirkes in his Handbook of Physiology-)-, the pancreatic disease appears to have been clearly non-malignant, and to have consisted in the conversion of the organ into a serous cyst in consequence of obstruc- tion of its duct; and the duodenum seems to have been quite healthy. In two, however, of these cases, there was jaundice, and in the third deficient bile in the evacuations, so that the pancreatic disease was not pure. What we want for the clearing up of this subject as far as the pancreas is concerned is, a case in which the pancreas alone is affected, other organs not being even functionally implicated, and in which there is during life a clear pre- sence, or a clear absence of fatty stools. Until such a case or cases can be brought forward, the light which this section of pathology has thrown upon physiology will still leave unde- termined the relative importance, in effecting the absorption of fat, of the different digest- ing agents supplied by or pouted into the duodenum. Bibliography. — a. Descriptive. — Wirsung, Figura Ductus cujusdam, &c. Pad. 1043. U'harton, Adenograpbja, Loud., 10.59. Hoffman, De Paucreate, Altdorf, 1700. Sammerring, Corp. Human. Fab. Lond., 1754, t. vi. Santorini, Tabulae septen- decim; Parma, 1775. Marjolin, Manuel d'Anatomie, Paris, 1815. Meckel, Manuel d'Anatomie, Paris, 1825. Siebold. OruveUhier, Anatomie Descriptive. Borden, Recherches Anatomiques sur la Position des Glandes, et sur leur Action. Tiedemann, Sur les Differences que le Canal Excreteur du Pancreas, &c, Jour. Compl. des Sc. Med., t. iv. p. 370. Quoin and Sharpey's Anatomy. Tiedemann's Plates, and the various text-books of Descriptive Anatomy. 0. Microscopical structure.—Malpig/ii, De Yis- eerum Structura. Buysc/i, Op. om., t. iii. Mutler, Physiology, by Paly. Idem. De Glandular. Secer- nentium Struct. Penit., Lipsia;, 1830. Gerber, Ge- neral and Minute Anatomy. Berrcs, Anatomica Microscopica Corp. Hum. Nicolucci, Sull' Intima Struttura della Glandula Pancrea, im Filiatre Se- bezio Maggio, 1847. Jones, Wharton, in Phil., Trans., 1848. Verneicil, Anatomie du Pancreas, Gaz. Med., 1851. Heyfdder, Acad, des Sciences, Jain, 1S52. Bernard, on the Structure and Func- tion of Glands, Acad, des Sciences, 1852. Knox, iu Med. Gazette. y. Comparative Anatomy. — Blumcnbach, Manual of Comparative Anatomy, by Coulson. Cuvier, Lecons d'Anat. Comp., t. iv. Tiedemann, Sur les Differences, &c, Journal Comp. des Sciences Me'd., t. iv. Grant, Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, Lancet, 1833-4. Wagner. Elements of Comparath e Anatomy. Trans, by Tulk. Owen, Comp. Anat. vol. i. and ii. Jones (Tfymcr), Comparative Ana- tomy. Stannius, Mutter's Archiv. 1849. 8. Physiology..— Brunner, Experimenta Nova circa Pancreas, Amst., 103S. Sylvius, Thes. 37. De Usu Lienis et Glandularum. Graaf, Bigner, De Succi Pancreatici Xatura et Usu, Lugd. Bat., 1671. Johrenius, De Affect. Hypocbond., Kinteln, 1678. Wharton, Adenograpbia. Miiller, Physiology, by * Archiv. Gt'n. de Me'd. t. xix. p. 215. t P. 233. I