UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 710 partly in intricate plexuses within the glans, and partly in terminal loops upon its mucous covering. Development. — In the foetus of three to four months, the clitoris is scarcely distin- guishable from the penis. But about the latter period the proportionate retrocession of the one organ, and the increased development of the other begin to be apparent. In the male, the groove along the under surface of the penis is closed in, and at the same time the raphe of the scrotum is formed ; while in the female, the parts corresponding with the bulb and corpus spongiosum urethra remain open, and constitute a portion of the rima. These lie in two halves on either side of the entrance of the vagina, while the urethra is developed independently of them. NympHjE.—Labia minora v. interna.—These consist of two thin and slightly fleshy folds of mucous membrane (fig. 480. w), somewhat re- sembling a cock's comb, which lie on either side of the entrance to the vagina, extending from the clitoris downwards, as far as the middle or lower border of that orifice. The nymphae commence above by two roots. The inner one, thin and membranous, is inserted beneath the glans clitoridis, and forms with its fellow a kind of frenum. The outer one, more fleshy, passes round the glans, and by its junction with the corresponding portion of the opposite side constitutes the preputium clitoridis (fig. 480. p c) already described. From these two roots or origins each nympha extends downwards and outwards, forming a thin prominence, of variable extent in different subjects, until it becomes merged in the labium of the corre- sponding side, near its posterior extremity. The nymphae are composed almost entirely of mucous membrane, which on their outer side is continuous with that of the labia, and upon their inner surface with the lining mem- brane of the vagina. Various uses have been assigned to the nymphae. One of these is that they serve to direct the stream of urine issuing from the urethral orifice, as suggested in the classic allusion to the sea nymphs pouring water from a vase which is implied in their name. Another supposition is that the nymphae aid the enlargement of the vaginal orifice, by be^ coming unfolded at the time of labour, although no such unfolding can be absolutely observed. It is more probable that their office is that of extending the secreting and sensitive surfaces at the entrance of the vagina. The nymphae correspond with that part in the male which forms the tegumental covering of the urethra, but which remains ununited in the female along the median line. The Vestibule. — This term has been employed in two senses. In its widest sense it includes all the parts which immediately sur- round the vaginal orifice. In a more restricted meaning, it is limited to that triangular patch of mucous membrane (fig. 480. v) which fills up the summit of the pubic arch. In the latter sense the apex of this triangle is formed by the clitoris, the sides by the upper halves of the nymphae, and the base by the roof of the vaginal orifice. In the centre of the base is situated the meatus urinarius, which forms here a slight prominence (fig. 480. u), at a distance of one inch behind the clitoris. Immediately below this point the anterior column of the vagina terminates in a prominent bulb or tubercle, marked usually by numerous trans- verse folds. Orifice or the Vagina, and Hymen.— Immediately below the vestibule, and between the nymphae, is the orifice of the vagina (fig. 480. va), which, in its undistended state, has the form of a vertical fissure, especially in women who have borne children, but in virgins it is more constricted and circular, and is further narrowed by a fold of the vaginal mu- cous membrane, the lit/men, which either en- circles or semi-encircles the orifice. As some important questions in obstetric and forensic medicine relate to this membrane it will receive here a more particular examination. The hymen, regarded in an anatomical point of view, possesses no peculiarity or speciality by which it is essentially distinguished from many like structures in other parts. It belongs to the same class of formations as the valvulae conniventes of the intestines, and the frill-like folds of mucous membrane which not infre- quently surround the terminal orifices of mu- cous tubes. In the fetus such folds are seen with various degrees of distinctness at the ter- mination of the urethra, vagina, and often of the rectum. The lower end of the vagina, in the fetus invariably terminates in a marked projection outwards of the mucous lining of the tube. It takes the form of a laterally compressed conical fold, the base of which is continuous all round with the vaginal walls, but the apex is directed forwards. Its centre exhibits a vertical slit-like orifice, the direction of which is apparently due to the lateral com- pression of the nymphae and labia, between which it lies. This is the hymen. In ad- vanced foetuses it is scarcely distinguishable in form, and only to a certain extent in size, from the similar conical termination of the cervix uteri, which projects into the vagina, as the hymen does between the nymphae. The vaginal portion of the cervix uteri and the hymen both constitute invaginations or intussusceptions at two different points of the same mucous tube, —the one marking the division between the uterus and the vagina, the other between the latter and the external parts. The chief dif- ference between them is that the direction of the orifice in the former is transverse, and in the latter vertical. Such is the condition of the hymen during foetal and infantile life. But as growth advances the posterior half becomes much more developed than the anterior, just as the posterior half of the uterus, the poste- rior lip of the cervix, and the posterior wall of the vagina, are commonly larger and more developed than the corresponding anterior halves. Thus it happens that in adults the hymen presents usually the form of acrescentic or semilunar fold, the concave border of which