RUMINANTIA. 523 ~ Fore limb. Hind limb. Dromedary - - 62 inches 65 inches Javanese Musk - 7J 11 >» Red Deer - - 31" jj 38 •j Rein Deer - - 82 M 39J ?j Fallow Deer - 27 34 •? Irish Elk - - 51 » 60 « Goat - 19 241 Ox - - 38 >5 48 It will be remarked that the proportionate difference, as here indicated, is much less in the Arabian camel than in the more typical ruminants. The femur {Jig. 346. b. 1) resembles for the most part that of other mammifera, being characterised by a rather short shaft and neck, and having the head placed nearly in a line with the longitudinal axis. The great trochanter is prominent, and forms the highest point when the limb is placed in an upright position. The inter-trochanteric fossa is capacious. The bone presents at the inferior end an extended articular surface, and bulges at the forepart, where it is deeply grooved for the patella and tendon of the quadratus muscle. Behind the external condyle is a hol- low, and its rough outer margin is continuous with the faintly indicated linea aspera. In the Giraffe the distal extremity of the thigh- bone attains a prodigious development. The nutritious artery enters at the anterior aspect of the cylinder a little below the cervix, as in other keratopherous ruminants ; we have also observed the arterial foramen of the left side to be about half an inch lower than on the right, an arrangement analogous to the devia- tion noticed in connection with the humerus of this species. The'^ patella (d) is comparatively small and compressed laterally ; it is sharp in front, and the applied surface exhibits two well marked facets. The tibia (2) is the longest bone of the hind leg, and is chiefly remarkable for the prominence of its spine, which projects from the upper fourth of the shaft and presents a sharp ridge directed outwards. A long styli- formfibula is stated to exist in Moschus, which is united to the external border of the tibia. In the Javanese Musk preserved in the Edin- burgh College of Surgeons Museum, there is no appearance of this bone. Slight traces of the fibula, however, are met with in other cervine genera, in the form of small osseous nodules jutting from the head of the tibia, and in some of the Deer tribe there is likewise to be noticed a small bone constituting the external maleolus {fig. 346, D a. 3). This supplementary piece is, in all probability, the representative of the lower end of the fibula, and it is articulated by three distinct facets to the tibia, os calois, and the astragalus. The bones of the tarsus, properly so con- sidered, are five in number, viz.,—os calcis, (2) and os astragulus (5), two ossa cunei- formes (8), and a single mass (9) resulting from the union of the os scaphoides and os cu- boidcs. In the Giraffe and in certain Antelopes and Deer the two cuneiforms are conjoined. The bone of the heel is in all much elongated. In Camelidae the scaphoids and cuboids (d 4 and 9) are disconnected. In conformity with the disposition of the metacarpal bones in the anterior limbs, the metatarsals form a single cannon bone pos- teriorly (10). More evident traces of ori- ginal duplicity are observable in the latter, than in the corresponding cylinder of the fore-limb, owing to the presence of a fur- row in front in addition to the one placed behind; the latter groove being moreover particularly deep. In Cervidae and Ante- lopidae, splint-bones homologous with the metatarsals of the second and little toes of the human subject are occasionally present, to support two supernumerary digits as obtains in the fore-leg; but these spurious phalanges are sometimes seen without the styliform appendages. In Moschus the rudi- mentary metatarsals acquire a much greater significance, extending upward nearly as far as the tarsus (c, fig. 348.). We have already Fis. 348. Bones of the hind limb of Moschus. (From Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) alluded to a similar peculiarity in the meta- carpus of this aberrant genus. The disposi- tion of the true digital phalanges and their accompanying ossa sessamoidea simulates in every respect that displayed in the con- struction of the cloven foot of the anterior extremity. Myology.—The muscles of ruminants ex- hibit few peculiarities apart from those of quadrupeds generally. They present arrange- ments very similar to those seen in Solipeda, and in the article devoted to the considera- tion of that group, numerous comparisons have been instituted in reference to the more important myological deviations found in tin's order. Selecting principally the Ox and Sheep as types, we have to offer, in regard to this great system of motary organs, the following particulars :— Panniculus earnosus.—Traces of this super- ficial muscular investment exist over the whole surface of the trunk, but in certain localities the fibres are more cogent, and form separate bundles, so as to assume more or less the character of distinct muscles. Eight