PELVIS. great sacro-sciatic ligament (c),I think merits the name of the inferior or short superficial posterior sacro-iliac ligament. This ligament has been hitherto apparently confounded with the great sacro-sciatic, which is attached to its lower border by a thin fibrous extension. Ms. 81. Posterior view of the ligaments of the pelvis. a, oblique posterior sacro-iliac ligament; b, infe- rior posterior superficial sacro-iliac ligament; c, great sacro-sciatic ligament; d, lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; e, membranous expansion over the pyri- forinis muscle. The ligaments which may be considered as accessor!/ to this articulation are three in number—the ilio-lumbar ligament above, and the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments below. The ilio-lumbar ligament (fig- 80. c) is a triangular fascicular ligament, thickest at the edges, and passing from the tip of the last lumbar transverse process, to which its apex is attached, horizontally outwards, and a little backwards to the posterior fifth of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, along which its fibres spread as far forward as the inner projecting point of the posterior curve. To the outer side and behind this ligament is attached the quadratus lumborum muscle with the tendon of the transversalis abdo- minis, and to its front the psoas magnus muscle. Meckel describes this ligament as sometimes reaching as high as the transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra. He also describes a second ligament lower than the preceding, but arising from the iliac crest a little behind it. They are called by him, respectively, the upper and lower anterior pelvic ligaments, the latter corresponding to the sacro-vcrtcbral ligament before described. The great sacro-sciatic ligament (ligamcnlum jyelvis posticum magnum, fig. 81. c) is attached behind, to the posterior inferior spine of the ilium by a membranous expansion (c); to the superficial posterior sacro-iliac ligaments with which its fibres are blended; to the posterior surface and borders of the two last pieces of the sacrum ; and to the posterior sacro coccy- gean ligament and borders of the two or three upper coccygeal bones. From this broad at- tachment its fibres pass downwards, forwards, and outwards to be implanted into the whole length of the raised inner border of the great tuberosity of the ischium. The fibres of this ligament are arranged in fasciculi, which cross each other in an X-like manner, so as to present, at the extremities, an expanded appearance, and in the centre a thick con- tracted rounded outline. The fibres which are placed superiorly in one extremity of insertion cross at the contracted part to become inferior at the other extremity, while those which are internal cross in the opposite direction to become external. Its superior border, consequently, is directed outwards and forwards, anil its inferior border inwards, and both present a curvilinear outline. At its insertion into the sciatic tuberosity, the fibres of the lower border present a falciform margin having the concavity directed upwards along the inner edge of the tuberosity, where it is united to the fascia covering the obturator in- ternus muscle. Its superficial or external fibres are continued over the tuberosity in- feriorly into the tendons of the biceps flexor cruris, and semi-tendinosus muscles. Near the posterior extremity, this ligament is almost invariably perforated by a small hole, through which passes the coccygeal branch of the ischiadic artery. To the whole length of its external or posterior surface is attached the great gluteus muscle, which causes it when dissected to be very rough and flocculent. At the posterior half of its inner surface it is blended intimately with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, anterior to which it is smooth, and forms part of the boundary of the ischio- rectal fossa. The lesser or internal sacro-sciatic ligament (ligamentum pelvis posticum parvum, fig. 81. rf) lies internal to the last, in common with which it is attached posteriorly to the side of the two last pieces of the sacrum and of the two upper pieces of the coccyx. At its an- terior extremity it is contracted into a pointed insertion into the spine of the ischium. The direction of this ligament is horizontally for- wards and outwards,and its shape is triangular, so that its anterior contracted portion diverges from the great sacro-sciatic ligament, leaving a triangular opening between them through which pass the obturator muscle out of, and the pudic vessels and nerves into the pelvis This ligament, thus passing from the sacrum across to the ischium, converts the sacro- sciatic notch into a triangular or oval foramen through which pass the pyramidalis muscle, the gluteal, ischiadic and pudic vessels, and the superior gluteal and great and lesser sciatic and pudic nerves out of the pelvis. With its