STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 422 date, and more considerable in amount. After the disease has thus fused into one mass the muscular and mucous coats, the distention and vascular disturbance undergone by the latter gradually effects its disorganization. Its epi- thelium becomes detached; its surface ulce- rates or sloughs ; and more or less haemor- rhage is excited. At this time, if not before, the cancerous process is generally so far mo- dified, as to give rise to the deposit of the medullary instead of the scirrhous variety. The eroded surface of the tumour thus be- comes the site of a bleeding fungous growth ; the haemorrhage from which, more or less altered by the fluids of digestion prior to its being ejected from the stomach, gives rise to the characteristic coffee-coloured vomiting which is almost always present in the latter stages of the disease. The metamorphosis of the cancerous mass is generally followed by sloughing or ulceration, either of which may end in the perforation of the organ. But this event is sometimes prevented by the adhesion of the peritoneal surface of the stomach to neighbouring structures; and is, perhaps, still more frequently staved off by the continuous deposit of new cancerous matter beneath and around the ulcerating mass. The perforation of the gastric parietes may give rise to an abnor- mal communication between the stomach and some neighbouring segment of the canal:—for example, the transverse colon, or some part of the small intestine. Or it may even open on the exterior of the belly; or penetrate the thoracic cavity. The medullary form of cancer, which is not unfrequently seen as a secondary deposit at the surface and margins of the scirrhous mass, sometimes occurs independently, as a con- tinuous or discrete deposit in the submucous areolar tissue. It offers its ordinary charac- teristic structure and appearance. The areolar form is also more frequently secondary than primary. It is by no means uncommon to find the hard scirrhous texture of the centre of the cancerous pylorus merge into a fibrous network as it approaches the inner surface of the organ; — a network the large meshes of which are filled with a ge- latinous mass. The fibres which constitute these meshes are generally long, pale, and ex- tremely delicate ; and their narrow outline is here and there bulged by persistent develop- mental cells. The gelatinous mass which they enclose consists of cells, which are often large and compound ; sometimes caudate, or pigmentary. It is possible that this structure is to some extent produced by a true me- tamorphosis of the previous scirrhus: its fibres being multiplied, at the same time that they are enlarged and distended by the deposit, between and amongst them, of a soft mass of cells. In some instances we find evident traces of a development of new fibres, which gradually break up the primitive loculi into secondary cells. The most superficial or internal of these loculi project from the mucous surface into the ca- vity of the stomach; where they often become the seat of a medullary or fungous growth, which undergoes ulceration and haemor- rhage. Stricture of the intestine. — The most fre- quent cancerous affection of the large intes- tine is a scirrhous deposit, which more or less encircles the tube. The extent to which it passes round the circumference of the canal is determined chiefly by its primary or secondary nature. In the former case, it is a complete circle. In the latter case, it generally forms but part of a circle; and occupies that side of the intestine, which is nearest to the gland or other neighbouring texture, from which the disease may have been derived. In either kind of scirrhous stricture, the deposit may subsequently extend, for a va- riable distance, in the direction of the length of the canal. But so long as it remains li- mited to a simple annular mass of gristly scirrhus occupying the submucous tissue, its chief effect is that of narrowing the canal. The influence of this narrowing on the neighbouring segments of the bowel is at first merely the mechanical obstruction which it offers to the transit of the intestinal contents. Where this obstruction amounts to a complete occlusion, it is speedily fatal: the intestine above the stricture becoming enormously dis- tended by its contents; and undergoing in- flammation, gangrene, or even rupture, as the result of this distention. A slower process of constriction, or a less complete obstruction, generally give rise to a combination of a si- milar dilatation, with a variable degree of hypertrophy; the latter change being often carried to such an extent as greatly to increase the thickness of all the coats of the bowel, and especially of the muscular tunic. The obstruction is often increased by the way in which the diseased part of the in- testine becomes abnormally united with neigh- bouring viscera or walls of the belly, In the secondary form of scirrhus, the mass is of course attached and fixed, almost at the very commencement of the process of deposit. But in the primary form, it may remain free until a comparatively late period of the disorder; when the weight of the tumour often causes the bowel to gravitate into a more or le^s unnatural position. In either case, its oc- currence often alters the course of the canal, by bending it at an acute angle opposite to the adherent part. The bowel is thus placed at a still further disadvantage lor the trans- mission of its contents. The subsequent progress of the disease requires little notice. The growth of a me- dullary fungus, or the deposit of a colloid or areolar mass upon the surface of the ulce- rated stricture, may of course increase the obstruction which the latter produces. Or, conversely, its sloughing or ulceration may restore the permeability of a previously al- most occluded canal. Finally, the exten- sion of the disease upwards, into the dilated segment of intestine above the stricture, may