PANCREAS. 89 finely granular. These globules are of various shapes, according as they are isolated or com- Fig. 60. Appearance of homogeneotts globules of various sizes and shapes, occasionally seen in the follicle of the pancreas. From the Rat. (Magnified 200 dia- meters.) pressed by neighbouring ones. They range in size from t *0 0 to of an inch, and are evi- dently not contained in any cell-membrane. (Seej£g. 60.) The appearance, in my opinion, results from a spontaneous solution of the epithelium in the follicles, and a separation of the different elements of the secretion; but what are the particular circumstances that de- termine it I do not know; the longer the object is kept under the microscope, the more marked is the appearance, and the larger the globules, from their running one into the other : it is possible that endosmosis may have something to do with it, for I do not remember ever to have seen the appearance in specimens promptly examined immediately after death.* y. Occasionally there is an appearance of a central cavity in each follicle, the epithelium lining it in a single columnar-looking layer, and leaving a central space unoccupied. The central space thus left is very small, not ex- ceeding in diameter that of the thickness of the epithelial layer lining the follicle; it is only now and then that this appearance can be detected, and even then it requires careful focussing to see it satisfactorily : it may either arise from the epithelium being shed in suc- cessive generations of layers,— one passing from the follicle as the succeeding crop is produced,—or it may be explained by the mere liquefaction of the central and older cells, which, escaping in a fluid form from the fol- licle, leave the peripheral cells with a definite * Since writing the above, I have had satisfac- tory evidence that the appearance is owing to en- dosmosis. I have seen the globules form under the microscope from their first trace to their attainment of a size equal to that shown in the figure. Some* times the endosmotic current is so strong as to cause visible movement in the contents of the follicles; the globules are the endosmosed fluid, the intervening material the granular contents of the follicle; in fact, the secretion. I have thought it worth while to retain the figure and description, as it is an appearance that might very easily give rise to error. * I SCHOOL R*j \ 4? * . . ^ J and even surface. At any rate, it is a rare thing to see the appearance clearly, and when it is visible, it requires accurate focussing for its satisfactory display ; for if either the nearer or more distant surface of the follicle is in focus instead of the centre, all appear- ance of cavity vanishes, and the follicle seems to be full of epithelium. Perhaps it is in part owing to this, and in part to the fact that the condition accompanies a particular and transitory stage of the secretion, that it is Fig. 61. A group of follicles from the pancreas of a Rat, viewed so as to bring their central cavity into focus. (Magnified 150 diameters.) not more frequently visible. I have repre- sented it in 61., as seen in a group of fol- licles from the pancreas of a rat: it displays the proportional thickness of the central ca- vity and the epithelial lining, and shows one or two follicles, where, from being out of focus, the cavity is not visible and the follicle appears solid throughout. It was sketched immediately after death. Duct. — The duct of the pancreas, like that of other conglomerate glands, consists of three coats : a middle, elastic, dense, fibrous, and white ; an external, loose, and areolar ; and an internal epithelial. Between the middle and internal there is probably a basement mem- brane, described, indeed, by some authors, but which I have been unable to detect. The middle coat consists of a firm, dense, and matted stratum of fibrous tissue, mainly longitudinal in direction, but closely inter- woven and netted together, very much re- sembling white fibrous tissue in appearance, but evidently not consisting of this entirely, as the striation is not removed by acetic acid. A certain amount of clarification, however, is produced by adding the acid, and the fibres that remain visible afterwards appear to con- sist of a particular form of yellow fibrous tissue, extremely fine, so as to lose the cha- racteristic appearance of double outline and even calibre. These fibres are exclusively longitudinal and parallel, except towards the outer surface of the duct where they inter- lace. Besides these, acetic acid displays, irregularly and sparingly scattered, some trans- verse and some longitudinal, the nuclei of some unstriped muscular fibres. These fibres I have never been able to isolate or see satis- factorily, for the density and opacity of the fibrous tissue previous to the addition of acetic acid renders them invisible : they lie near the inner surface, and, from the paucity of the nuclei, must be very few. The external coat is merely the loose areolar web which connects the duct to the