337 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. substances which the gastric juice will dissolve. For the more abundant of the salts contained in the gastric juice appear to be almost as closely united to its pepsine as is the acid itself. The supposed complex acid has never been isolated; still less has its combination with the supposed base. The latter, again, does not saturate the acid, and has never yet been replaced by other bases. In like manner, the tolerably fixed proportions of acid and of protein cannot be reduced to definite equiva- lents. And, finally, while the restorative action of fresh acid cannot be fully explained, the equally marked effect produced by pure water is still more mysterious. We are thus gradually led to the conclusion, that neither of these four theories — solution, combination, contactive excitement, or trans- ferred metamorphosis—will afford an adequate explanation of that process of stomach-diges- tion, from the observed phenomena of which they all so widely differ. It is indeed scarcely to be wondered at that we are unable to form a satisfactory theory. For it is probable we are still ignorant of many processes of organic chemistry. While it is possible that the action of the gastric juice is quite sui generis. And hence any view which unites most of the circumstances of the case, will be certainly as useful, and probably as true, as one which, like each of the preceding, assumes an undue parallel for the sake of a full explanation. If we must connect the above details by some theory, we may first remark, that the gastric juice dissolves protein-compounds; that it renders them highly soluble ; and that it as- similates their form and reactions to its own, without changing their composition. For any parallel to such a process we can only look to those lower degrees of chemical action, where solution and combination, adhesion and affi- nity, maybe supposed to meet anil merge into each other; where proportions are tolerably definite, but true equivalents indistinct ; and where, though form is changed and reactions modified, elementary composition remains little affected. Actions of such a kind may be found in the union of many substances with water, or its elements, to form the compounds called hydrates. And the conversion of pro- tein into peptone, by the gastric juice, pre- sents so many analogies to the formation of a hydrate*, that it seems not impossible the chief officeof this secretion maybe, that of ena- bling water to combine with the various mem- bers of the albuminous groups of alimentary substances, in order to their acquiring that so- lubility, and uniformity of constitution, which must probably precede their admission into the current of the blood. To this vague indication of a theory, I will only add, that the mode in which a definite quantity of the organic prin- ciple takes part in such a process cannot even be conjectured. Its action certainly appears no way comparable to the effect of diastase on starch, or of emulsine on amygdaline. It seems to be an assimilation, in the strictest * Compare Dr. Prout's treatise " On Stomach and Renal Diseases," ath edition, p. 470. et passim. Supj). chemical sense. It is not impossible that the acid commences the process by a slight, though genuine, solution of the more resist- ing substances. And at any rate, this con- stituent seems to have the power of checking putrefaction, if not of arresting all metamor- phosis, in the other ingredients of the secre- tion :—like the small quantity of oil of vitriol which is added by the chemist to hydrocyanic acid with the same object. Process of secretion.—The process by which the gastric juice is secreted from the mucous membrane of the stomach, forms one of the most interesting problems in physiological science ; and one which, if satisfactorily ex- plained, would probably throw much light on the morphology of secretion generally. Ever since the discovery of the stomach- tubes by Dr. Sprott Boyd, it has been generally assumed that the secretion of the gastric juice is mainly effected by a discharge of their glandular contents. The precise mode of this expulsion seems usually to have been left undecided : though it has been implied that the pressure of the muscular contractions of the organ upon the more or less solid food would almost compel an evacuation of the tubes. And more recently, Frerichs has asserted that the act of secretion is really aided by such an expulsion ; and that the food becomes enveloped in a layer of the large gastric cells, the discharge of which from the stomach-tubes leaves them collapsed and empty. To all of these statements the author ven- tures to offer a deliberate contradiction In re- searches upon this organ which have extended over some years, he has never seen these gastric cells free from the tubes except when there was good reason to attribute their ex- pulsion to mechanical violence. They are never present in large quantities. In the majority of examinations they are almost absent. With the proper use of the precau- tions previously alluded to, they will rarely or never be found. In addition to this, it may be added, that the arrangement seen in the Dog—where the stomach-tubes are lined by a continuous tube of epithelium, which is prolonged into the layer of columnar cells that occupies their intervening ridges—renders it almost impossible that these cells should be shed in their original form. Another part of this statement has already been contradicted. During every stage of gastric digestion, the tubes may be seen with precisely the same form, size, arrangement, and contents, which they exhibit din ing the fasting state. This remark even applies to that narrow calibre of epithelium, which is seen within the axis of the proper gastric tube in the Dog. And hence, ignorant as we are of the exact mechanical arrangement of the fibre-cells at the bottoms of the tubes, still the excessive delicacy of these secreting organs, taken in conjunction with this uni- formity of appearance, renders it highly im- probable that they are evacuated by any ex- traneous pressure. z