112 PANCREAS. rates twenty-eight cases in which the disease appeared to be idiopathic, and in eight, which were of long standing, did not extend beyond the pancreas; more frequently, however, it implicates neighbouring parts in some degree, particularly the duodenum, stomach, and py- lorus. It may exist without any increase of size, but more frequently is attended by some enlargement, which may be considerable. Scir- rhus rarely goes on to ulceration, the asso- ciated lesions terminating fatally before that time. It often gives rise to constriction of the bile-duct and deep jaundice, and even com- pression of the aorta: this compression and constriction of the aorta have been known to occasion aneurismal dilatation above the seat of the constriction, as seen by Portal and Salmade. Of the twenty-eight cases analysed by Dr. Bigsby, in seventeen the disease had not ar- rived at the stage of softening, although some of them had existed for years ; it was purely scirrhus. In five cases he states the scirrhus had, at the time of death, passed into the soft state called cephaloma by Dr. Carswell, and medullary sarcoma by previous writers. Some parts, however, were as hard as cartilage; but others had all the pulpy, pale yellow, brain- like character of the second stage of scirrhus. In one case, the pancreas was changed into a sac, with a few shreds of cephaloma here and there on its sides. Lastly, in two cases no vestige of any form of scirrhus remained, the gland being altogether in a state of cancerous ulceration. Fungo-hccmatoid disease has been found in the pancreas in three cases by Dr. Aber- crombie, and in single instances by Dr. Bright and others. Dr. Copland found this lesion in the pancreas of a boy fourteen years of age ; several other organs were also affectedby it.* e. Calculous concretions in the pancreatic duct and its branches are by no means uncommon, and appear not (infrequently to be the cause of some of those morbid changes that have been already noticed. Sometimes they are manifestly in the duct ; at others, though pro- >ably primarily so, they appear, from oblite- ration of the duct in which they were lodged, :o be in the gland substance. They are usu- ully white, but occasionally black ; they vary much in shape, being sometimes round, and •ometimes irregular ; their size ranges from that of a pea to that of a small walnut, and their number from one to twenty ; sometimes they are scattered throughout the gland, sometimes aggregated in a mass. Gendrin mentions that the pancreatic duct is some- times clogged, not with distinct concretions, but with a chalky powder. In respect to chemical composition it seems probable that pancreatic calculi are liable to some varia- tions. Dr. Pemberton-f- mentions having re- ceived one from Dr. Baillie from the human pancreas which consisted entirely of carbonate of lime ; whereas, one from the ox analysed by Dr. Wollaston turned out to be phosphate of * Medical Diet. Loc. cit. t On the Viscera, p. G8. lime. Portal mentions that in a case in which he met with a dozen of light, round, whitish calculi in the pancreas, he found that when he reduced one or two to coarse powder, and threw this into boiling water, it readily dissolved ; and Fourcroy states, as the result of his examinations, that pancreatic concre- tions are composed of phosphate of lime com- bined with some animal matter, just as is the case with salivary calculi. There is one circumstance connected with the morbid anatomy of the pancreas worthy of special note, and with a short reference to this I shall finish this paper ; it is The occurrence ofjalty stools in connection with pancj-catic disease. Attention was first drawn to this subject twenty years ago by the simultaneous publication, in the eigh- teenth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, of papers by Drs. Bright and Elliotson and Mr. Lloyd ; but although the subject excited considerable interest at the time, it has since been suffered to lapse, from want apparently of due appreciation of its import ; and it is only recently that it has emerged from its obscurity in consequence of the new interest with which recent physio- logical discoveries have invested it. It is only the most hasty and superficial glance that it will be possible here to give to this most interesting subject: for further details I must refer the reader to the original papers, to others that have since been published, and to an admirable article in the twenty-third number of the British and Foreign Medico- Chirurgical Review. The first of these papers — first as much in importance as in time — was that of Dr. Bright. Not only was he the first to point out the pathological relations of this remarkable phenomenon, but his paper is distinguished by a singular clearness and impartiality, and by a thorough digestion of its carefully ga- thered materials. He thus describes the pe~ culiar condition of the evacuations that first excited his attention:—" A portion more or less considerable assumes the character of an oily substance resembling fat, wdiich either passes separately from the bowels, or soon divides itself from the general mass, and lies upon the surface, sometimes forming a thick crust, particularly about the edges of the vessel, if the faeces are of a semifluid con- sistence ; sometimes floating like globules of tallow which have melted and become cold ; and sometimes assuming the form of a thin fatty pellicle over the whole, or over the more fluid parts in which the more solid figured fasces are deposited. This oily matter has generally a slight yellow tinge, and a most disgustingly fetid odour." After detailing the cases, Dr. Bright insti- tutes the following analysis of them :—" In all of these, chronic ailments terminated, soone'" or later, in jaundice ; and in all of them a great peculiarity in the character of the dejec- tions existed. In the result of the examina- tion after death we have likewise some cir- cumstances which coincide in all — obstructed