STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 409 first or " active " form of congestion may ge- nerally be distinguished from the latter or " passive " variety. The active hyperaemia is immediately attended by an enlargement in the calibre of the afferent arteries; the pas- sive, by a diminution in that of the efferent veins. Again, the former usually has the colour of a tolerably scarlet or arterial blood ; the latter, that of a darker and more venous fluid. Lastly, the active form affects chiefly the minute arterial branches and the capil- laries ; the passive is most prominent in the veins which come from these ultimate vessels. The hyperaemia of enteritis and of cirrhosis respectively, might well illustrate this con- trast. Amongst the varieties of hyperaemia, we may notice a more or less complete limitation of this state to the capillaries of particular tissues. Thus the microscope sometimes reveals a congestion of the gastric or intestinal mucous membrane, that specially engages those capillaries which surround the mouths of its tubes. In other instances, their blind extremities exhibit a similar state of injection. The exact cause of such partial hyperaemia is scarcely known. But the first of these va- rieties appears to be generally connected with a very limited amount of congestion. In accordance with this fact, it seems frequently to occur during or after death. Haemorrhage.—Haemorrhage is by no means an unusual morbid occurrence in the digestive canal. Of course, the mere presence of blood in some part of the alimentary tube, affords no proof that it has been derived from the vessels which occupy its walls. The blood which reaches the pharynx in cases of haemoptysis, or of lesions of the nose, mouth, or pharynx, is often swallowed, and is thus introduced into the stomach or bowels. In like manner, blood effused into the ducts of the liver or pancreas, may be carried onwards through these tubes, so as to simulate haemorrhage into the intestinal canal; or the blood ex- travasated into cysts, abscesses, and tumours, may find its way, through some abnormal opening, into the cavity of the bowels. It was formerly supposed that, in many cases of haemorrhage, the walls of the vessels remained uninjured; or, at least, unaffected by any definite solution of continuity: the blood being set free from its channels by *' exhalation " through their porous walls. But we now know that this doctrine is in- correct ; that the walls of even the finest capillaries have no pores of appreciable mag- nitude, such as are necessary for the transit of blood-corpuscles: and hence that the " extravasation " of these structures is, ipso facto, a proof that some blood-vessel has been ruptured. That, amongst the myriads of these minute tubes present, we often fail to detect the exact seat of the lesion, need, of course, little surprise us. The frequency with which haemorrhage oc- curs in the digestive canal, seems related chiefly to the number and delicacy of its vessels, to the nature of its tissues, and to the mode in which these structures are arranged with respect to each other. Amongst such pre- disposing causes we may especially notice, that the greater part of its large vascular supply breaks up into a vast and dense network of capillaries, which is placed in the closest proximity to the free surface of the mucous membrane. While the latter structure not only has a consistence which disease can readily reduce below what is necessary for the mechanical support of these delicate ves- sels ; but is the constant seat of muscular movements, which agitate it in almost every conceivable plane. The extravasated blood may either occupy the interstices of the intestinal tissues, or may make its way into the cavity of the canal. The former case is much the less frequent of the two. As we might infer from the ana- tomy of the tube, the areolar tissue around the submucous stratum of vessels is by far the most frequent situation of such intersti- tial haemorrhage. The blood which is effused by haemorrhage into the cavity of the tube itself may be either fluid or coagulated, arterial or venous, pure or mixed, changed or unchanged. With respect to the latter alternative, we may point out, that blood effused into the digestive canal not only becomes mingled with the various ingesta and secretions which may chance to be present, but gradually undergoes a kind of digestive process, that often has the effect of greatly modifying its colour and consistence. Hence, where the extravasated blood has been sufficiently exposed to this action, it will gene- rally be found to have acquired a dark,grumous, or even black colour, and a peculiar tarry or almost pultaceous consistence. While con- versely, if the effusion be excessive in quan- tity, or recent in occurrence, it may be pure enough to testify to its arterial or venous source. A small quantity of blood thus altered by digestion sometimes simulates the colour and appearance of inspissated bile. But by- diluting the sanguineous mass with water, its dark-purple or blackish hue may be at once distinguished from the rich yellow colour which is proper to the biliary secretion. And a microscopic examination would, of course, assist (oreven replace) this means of diagnosis. The nature of these intestinal haemorrhages is very various. Apart from mechanical injuries of the canal by foreign bodies ap- plied to it from within or from without, we may classify (but scarcely separate) them into haemorrhages from two sources: — from abnormal states of the vessels themselves; and from diseased conditions of the con- tiguous tissues. As examples of the former variety, we may adduce the haemorrhage produced by the rup- ture of an atheromatous artery; or the ex- travasation which occurs in cirrhosis from obstruction and distention of the portal veins. The haemorrhage of inflammation, of ulcer- ation, of atony, may be referred to the second