647 UTERUS —(Development). T T 4 uteri into the upper part of the vagina be- comes gradually less and less distinctly ascer- tainable by the finger. The latter change is commonly termed the "shortening of the cer- vix;" but the conditions upon which it de- pends, have not been very accurately examined, and they are certainly not at all clearly or adequately represented by the figures by which the description of this process is usu- ally accompanied. As much importance is usually attached, in works on forensic and obstetric medicine, to the changes in question, it will be necessary here to examine a little more closely the process by which this appa- rent shortening of the cervix is produced. It is commonly said that no material altera- tion, in the length of the cervix uteri, occurs before the fifth month of gestation ; that, at the sixth or seventh month, the uterine neck has begun to shorten ; at the eighth month, it is nearly, and at the end of the ninth month, it is quite, obliterated. But while it is true that a lessening of the projection of the cervix into the vagina com- monly takes place in pregnancy (fig. 446.), I can hardly coincide in the explanation which is usually offered of this circumstance, namely, that it is due to a gradual drawing up, as it were, of the cervix, by which its walls become added to those of the body of the uterus, for the purpose of increasing the capacity of the uterine cavity; and that in this way the ute- rine neck is gradually shortened, until it finally disappears.* The accompanying fig. 446. exhibits the condition of the cervix in a woman aged thirty-seven, who, having previously borne children, died of phthisis in the eighth month of pregnancy. Here it will be perceived, that, without any actual diminution of the length of the cervix, which measured rather more than one inch, still there is no projection of it into the vagina ; but thatit forms a flat roof to that canal in the mode which is usually described and explained as indicating the en- tire absorption of the uterine neck. The true explanation of this, as it appears to me, is, that the apparent shortening of the neck is caused not, at first, by any diminution of its actual length, but by an increase of its breadth, or its extension in the lateral direction, where- by the projection of the lips into the vagina is reduced to the smallest possible amount. The rest of the process, upon which the shorten- ing of the cervix depends, may be explained * See description of the figures in Gooch : "An account of some of the most important diseases peculiar to woman," p. 212; and Beck's Elements of Medical Jurisprudence, 5th edit. p. 128. Regarding this explanation, which had been given by many preceding authors (see Mauriceau, torn. i. p. 97.; Smellie, vol. i. p. 183. et s«y.), but which Gooch was, I believe, the first to illustrate by dia- grams, it appears to me that much imagination has been exercised. The illustrations usually given are evidently diagrams supplied for the purpose of aiding the description of the process, as it has been supposed to occur, from examination of the part by the finger during life, but they give a very imperfect notion of the actual state of the cervix in pregnancy, as ascertained by dissection. by the variable condition of the internal os uteri, or upper orifice of the cervix. If this remains unyielding until the time of labour, Fig. 446. V Vertical section of the os and cervix uteri represented in the last figure, ii, walls of vagina; c, of cervix, and u, of uterine body. The cervical canal is nearly tilled by the expanded palnia? plieataj. Half the natural size. (Ad Nat.) then the finger, on being placed within the cervix, traverses the whole length of the canal before it reaches any part of the child ; and the general form and substance of the cervix being retained, the neck is said to be unob- literated. Such is usually the state of parts after repeated pregnancies. But if the in- ternal or upper os yields readily, as it usually does in the more advanced stage of a first pregnancy, then the head of the child gradu- ally settles down upon the lower orifice, press- ing aside the soft and yielding wall of the cervix, which thus forms for it a shallow, cup- like, or funnel-shaped recess, that may be so far said to be added to the uterine cavity ; and the finger, on passing within the os readily, touches the child, without having to traverse any length of cervix. When, therefore, the term, shortening of the uterine neck, is employed, it should be understood to imply that change which takes place from the hypertrophy and lateral exten- sion of the vaginal portion of the cervix, com- bined sometimes with a separation of the cer- vical walls from each other, occasioned by the descent Of the head of the child; the degree of this descent being regulated by the amount of yielding of the internal os uteri. But it does not signify any alteration in the anato- mical condition of the cervix and body of the uterus, which in every case retain their dis- tinctive characteristics to the end of preg- nancy : while the dilatation of the cervical canal is onl}' an occasional occurrence, limited to the last stage of pregnancy, and having nothing to do with that apparent shortening which begins after the fifth month. Position actual and relative. — The enlarge- ment which the uterus undergoes during ges- tation, occasions of necessity very considerable alterations in its actual and relative position. On the occurrence of pregnancy, the organ, at first concealed within the pelvis, sinks, by its increased weight, lower than usual within that