STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 320 omentum ; until, arriving nearly at the upper extremity of this cavity, it turns forwards in a slight projection or fold of the serous mem- brane. In this fold, it has a very brief and somewhat arched course, which brings it to the left end of the smaller curvature of the stomach. Here it passes between the two layers of the gastro-nepatic omentum. From hence it continues, in a very tortuous course, along this curvature; lying close to the stomach, and diminishing in size by giving oft' frequent branches; until, towards the right or pyloric extremity of the organ, it is lost by anastomosing with the branches of the hepatic artery. Its larger or named branches are the oeso- phageal and the gastric. The first are given off from the highest point of the vessel, or where it enters the gastro-splenic omentum. They run upwards to the oesophagus, and take a longitudinal course ; so as to pass, with this tube, through the opening in the diaphragm. And they anastomose with the thoracic vessels distributed to this tube from the aorta. The gastric ramifications (/>, fg. 250.) run down- wards from the coronary artery on both surfaces of the stomach. They inosculate, on the left, with small branches from the splenic artery ; towards the middle of the organ, with the gastro-epiploic branches ; and at the pylorus, with the superior pyloric artery. The arteria hepatica (c, figs. 250, 251.),which is the next largest branch of the cceliac axis, passes for a short distance outwards, and slightly forwards, from the axis or common trunk, to read) the commencement of the duodenum. It now runs almost vertically upwards between the two layers of peritoneum that form the gastro- hepatic omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow (though still with a slight incli- nation towards the right side), to end by being distributed in the liver. In this course, it gives off two branches, — the gastro-duodenal and the pyloric — both of which take an important share in supplying the stomach with arterial blood. Fig. 251. Arteries o f the stomach. The cceliac axis, as seen by raising the stomach, so as to expose the arterial branches behind it. a, arteria coronaria ventriculi; c, arteria hepatica; d, arteria gastro-duodenalis; e, arteria gastro-epi- Ploiea dextra; f, arteria panereatico-duodenalis ; g, arteria pylorica; h, arteria splenica ; ?', arteria gastro- epiploic^ sinistra. The gastro-duodenalis (d, Jigs. 250,251.) is the first and largest artery of these two. It leaves the hepatic vessel behind theduodenum,passing vertically downwards across the intestine to the lower border of its first portion. In this course, it gives off a few small branches to the neighbouring parts of the stomach and in« testine ; some of which twigs have been dis- tinguished as the inferior pyloric arteries. And at the inferior margin of the bowel, the gastro-duodenal artery bifurcates into tvvo : — a large gastro-epiploic, and a small pancrea- tico-duodenal branch. Thegastro-cpiploica dextra (e,Jigs.250,25l.), the large vessel which continues the gastro- duodenalis, is so named from its situation be- tween those layers of the great omentum which descend from the stomach to form the " epi- ploon" or apron-l ike fold that covers the greater part of the intestinal canal. Beginning at the lower border of the duodenum, the artery runs from right to left, along the lower margin or great curvature of the stomach, and at a little distance from it, with what is usually a wavy or tortuous direction. In this course, it gives oft' branches which pass upwards on both surfaces of the organ ; as well as others of less importance, both upwards and down- wards, to the fatty and serous tissues of the omentum itself. And rather beyond the middle of the stomach, or towards its cardiac pouch, it ends by uniting with a corre- sponding branch, of smaller size, from the splenic artery. The panereatico-duodenalis branch (f, Jig. 251.) has precisely the situation and distri- bution which its name would imply. It runs between the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, lying in the concavity formed by the horse-shoe curve of the canal, or around the convexity by which the gland fits into this hollow. It gives oft'ramifications to both these structures, and ends by anastomosing with a branch, which comes upwards from the su- perior mesenteric artery and also occupies the same interval between the pancreas and the lower portion of the duodenum. The arteria pylorica (g, Jigs. 250, 251.), which is sometimes distinguished by the title of the pylorica superior from the smaller branches of the gastro-duodenal above allu- ded to, is generally given oft' from the trunk of the hepatic artery opposite to the upper border of the duodenum. More rarely it is derived from the commencement of its gastro- duodenal branch. In either case, it enters between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omen- tum, and runs in this fold, from right to left, along the upper margin or lesser curvature of the stomach, to join the coronary artery from the cardiac extremity of the organ. It gives off numerous branches to both surfaces of the organ. The arteria splenica (h, Jigs. 250, 251.), or second branch of the cceliac axis, has no direct connection with the alimentary canal, until near its division into the terminal trunks by which it enters the spleen. Here it gives oft"a left gastro-epiploic artery; and