299 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. rather suck the juices, of their casual or more permanent victims. The simple digestive tube of the Acari or Mites is prolonged in a straight line from mouth to anus. It is sometimes complicated by gastric caeca or dilatations. In the Aranei, or spiders proper, a slender oesophagus passes back from the mouth to a " stomach." This is sometimes a mere dila- tation; sometimes is indicated by four saccali, that radiate from a narrow tube; and sometimes presents a cavity, having blind prolongations that extend into the bases of each of the maxillary palpi and thoracic legs. All these parts occupy the anterior or cephalo-thoracic division of the body. The remainder of the canal, entering the abdominal segment, dilates, after a single convolution, into a large and sometimes globular intestine, to reach the anus by a short portion, of narrower diameter, called a rectum. The long tubes met with in the Insects recur in this order. One set, of vary- ing size, open in the neighbourhood of the complicated apparatus of prehension; these, from their position, are supposed to be sali- vary. And occasionally a special poison gland appears to empty itself in this neigh- bourhood. A middle set, called hepatic, often forms two pairs of tubes, with orifices much posterior to the gastric sacculi; in other cases they are very numerous, and are con- cealed by a granular mass, which occupies the same situation. The posterior set are one or two pairs of long caeca, which join the intestinal cavity close to its termination, and are hence compared to urinary organs. The Scorpions have a tolerably straight, narrow, and simple tube, complicated by several pairs of straight sacs, which come off at right angles to its anterior part, and are probably gastric crops. Below these, two bifurcating tubes, of great length and small diameter, open into a constriction of the canal. They are regarded as hepatic. In the order of Mullusca, many of whom in- habit the sea, we may again trace a gradual ad- vance of development in the intestinal canal. The Tunicata is its lowest subdivision. Here a simple canal begins by a wide oeso- phagus, that leads from the bottom of the branchial sac to a stomach or dilatation. This is surrounded by a number of hepatic follicles, that open into its intestinal end ; and it leads to a wide recurved intestine, which ends by an aperture on the upper and outer surface of the animal. Sometimes the liver varies from this description in the fact that its follicles are aggregated. The Brachlopoda possess a digestive ap- paratus of nearly equal simplicity with the preceding. Dental structures are wanting ; and the liver is still follicular. The LamelMbranchiata exhibit a somewhat similar condition. Their gastric cavity is sometimes preceded by a short oesophagus. From hence a comparatively simple intestine continues, with a few convolutions, through a mass of liver, to terminate, by a long straight portion, in the anus. The latter segment, or rectum, lies along the hinge of their shell, and often perforates the heart in its course. Al- though the liver is large and aggregate, it opens by several ducts into the gastric dila- tation.* The Gasteropoda have a head, jaws, and salivary follicles. Their longer oesophagus sometimes dilates into an ingluvies or crop. Their stomach often possesses a thickened lining, and a masticatory apparatus of teeth or plates, which make it a kind of gizzard. Sometimes it is divided into two or more compartments. The large liver opens into the pyloric extremity of the stomach, or the com- mencement of the intestine, by one or more ducts; or, rarely, it empties itself into the oesophagus. One or two large glandular caeca also open into the beginning of the intestine, and are regarded as a rudimentary pancreas. The remainder of the tube is simple, and ends anteriorly in the body, in accordance with the general structure of the animal. In the numerous herbivorous species, the intes- tine is longer and more tortuous ; while the crop, the gizzard, and the masticatory appa- ratus all reach a high development. The intestinal canal of the Pteropoda is very similar. It possesses jaws and salivary glands, together with an oesophagus, a crop, a gizzard, a short and simple intestine, and a conglo- merate liver that often opens by a single duct. The Cephalopoda exhibit a marked advance of development. Their mandibles form a powerful organ of mastication ; and, in many species, salivary glands co-exist. The mouth leads to a long and dilatable oesophagus, which descending, sometimes expands into a crop before it finally reaches the gizzard or muscular stomach. This organ is of tolerably uniform appearance. Its shape is round, or somewhat elongated ; it has a thick and whitish epithelial lining, and its muscular layer consists of two sets of fibres, each of which radiates from a central tendon on one side of the organ. The cardiac and pylo- ric orifices are situated at its upper part. The intestine coming from the latter soon communicates with another cavity, which is sometimes regarded as a stomach. This is, in the lower Cephalopoda, nearly spherical. But in many of the higher or Dibranchiate division, it is of less simple form, being triangular, elongated, or folded spirally like a snail shell. Its mucous membrane is rugous and follicular ; and the large liver, which is still supplied by arterial blood, opens into it by a single duct. The intestine continues hence as an uniform tube, which, after one or two slight curves, bends upwards to open at the base of the funnel. In some species we also find cascal appendages, the ducts of which join those of the liver before they enter the * In some species a curious style or hard conical process occupies a tube of similar shape, that com- municates with the gastric dilatation. The use of this implement is unknown; but it lias been sug- gested to effect a triturative process :—a supposition which, if true, would render the cavity containing it the analogue of a gizzard.