36 OVUM. individuals from which the ovum derived its origin ; and that subsequently this individual, or one or other of its successors, has formed in connection with it, either internally or exter- nally, and without sexual organs,a new progeny, which may consist of one or of many indivi- duals, which have each of them more or less of the structure and properties of independent animals, and which, however variable their other organisation may be, present this in com- mon, that they are sexually complete,and renew the true generative act by the formation of fecundated ova. In some animals it is the im- mediate offspring of the individual developed from the ovum which resumes the sexual func- tion ; in other animals this offspring bears a second brood, or a third, and even more suc- cessive generations, before the return is made to sexual reproduction. This process of non- sexual production is, in some instances, very analogous to external gemmation ; in some it resembles transverse fission ; and in others it proceeds from the interior of the parent body, in a manner which has been called internal gemmation, but which must be considered as different from a true budding process, and cannot, in a few words, be correctly charac- terised. These deviations, therefore, are pe- culiar in this, as compared with the mode of reproduction in other animals; viz. 1st, that the immediate product of development from the ovum is not usually itself the producer of ova, but that this function is delegated as it were to the sexual individuals, which are the products of its non-sexual generation; 2nd, that it frequently happens that in place of one individual only resulting from the development of an ovum, several, and even a great multitude of individuals are produced by the non-sexual multiplication of the product of sexual genera- tion ; and, 3rd, that while the several series of individuals proceeding from the various suc- cessive acts of production, may, in one sense, be regarded as different stages of an animal specifically the same, or are together necessary to make up the species, yet their form, orga- nisation, and modes of life are often so dif- ferent, that many of them have frequently been described as belonging to different species and genera, or even to different orders and classes of animals ; and, but for the know- ledge now possessed of their close affinity, as established by their common origin, would still continue to be dissociated from each other in the systems of the zoologist. The doctrine of alternating generation has not, however, been admitted without reserva- tion by some physiologists. In various parts of his recent admirable work on General and Comparative Physiology, and elsewhere*, Dr. Carpenter has expressed his dissent from the views of Steenstrup, both as regards the existence of an alternation of a true gene- rative process and the alleged nursing function of one or more of the series of individuals so produced; and seems disposed in some measure * In the Biitish and Foreign Medico-Chirur- gical Review, v ol. i. and vol. iv. to undervalue that author's researches, con- sidered either as original observations, or as embodying a novel and important generalisa- tion. Dr. Carpenter regards the phenomena in question as analogous to, if not identical with, those of metamorphosis rather than of genera- tion ; and we are left to suppose that he does not think the difference essential between such metamorphoses as occur in one and the same individual and those which result in the pro- duction of a multitude of dissimilar indi- viduals. According to this view, the new animal produced by the non-sexual process is the result of a process of development or growth, and ought therefore to be regarded as formed by budding or gemmation, rather than by an act of generation properly so called. In a recent paper on the subject of Metamorphosis, Non-sexual Reproduction, and Alternate Generation (Zeitsch. fur Wis- sensch. Zool. June, 1851, p. 170.), Leuckart has advocated somewhat similar views, endea- vouring to refer all the instances of so-called alternate generations to metamorphosis ; but this obviously requires that we should change the signification usually given to this term. But the restriction of the word generation to the sexual process of reproduction, though it might be convenient and proper, were we now to have to employ it for the first time, seems somewhat arbitrary in this case, as it is contrary to common practice, and physio- logists have long been in the habit of making the distinction between sexual and non-sexual generation. No new term has been suggested applicable to, or descriptive of, all the pheno- mena in question ; and I apprehend, that, however desirable the change may appear, we must continue to designate the process of non-sexual production as one of " Genera- tion" in its physiological sense, and the series of new beings thus formed as so many " generations" of individuals in the common or vernacular sense of the term. As Pro- fessor E. Forbes remarks, the alternation of forms is admitted, but not the alternation of generations. The bodies produced by one in- dividual, if they assume new forms and move about as separate and independent animals, must be regarded as so many distinct indi- viduals ; and if they are different, and if the one produces the other (even though it may be by a process of gemmation), we must ad- mit that they belong to different generations.' The distinction between the formation of a new individual from an impregnated ovum, and that which takes place without the con- currence of sexual organs, is one which, unquestionably, all will feel disposed to re- gard as most important; but it still remains undemonstrated that all the animal beings which are of non-sexual origin are necessarily formed by a process of gemmation analogous to ordinary growth. It has already been pointed out that the mode of their origin is, so far as it has yet been ascertained, very various; and, at all events, in some of them, there is a wide departure from that which we have been accustomed to regard as an act of