UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 561 which produced it closes in the same manner lis when conception has not occurred, but it does not shrink rapidly, as in the latter case. On the contrary, the inner coat or original ovi- sac continues to increase in thickness, in conse- quence of a still larger deposit of yellow oil granules in its substance. The outer coat of the follicle or tunic of the ovisac suffers no change ; but upon the interior of the ovisac, and therefore lining the cavity, is formed a membrane, the origin and nature of which will be presently considered ; or else it may happen that the cavity becomes obliterated by the organisation of the clot by which it had been at first filled. After conception it is probable that the ac- tual diameter of the follicle does not at any time materially increase. So great, however, are the variations in its size in different sub- jects, that this point scarcely admits of being accurately determined. The Graafian follicle may, at the time of rupture, occupy or A- of the entire ovary. These at least are the dimensions which it is usually found to have, in different instances, during the first four months of pregnancy ; but after this period the process of diminution begins to be percep- tible. All the changes which are now observ- able in regard to form, solidity, and other par- ticulars obvious to the unaided senses, and all the histological changes are to be looked for within the outer coat of the follicle. The latter appears to suffer no alteration, but simply to follow the movements of its contained parts, around which it remains loosely applied. The ovisac, however, or inner coat, rapidly in- creases in thickness, in consequence of a more considerable accumulation in its texture of the same yellow oil whose deposition had be- gun in it long before the follicle had ruptured, and when it was only approaching the surface of the ovary. This thickening of the inner follicular coat is followed by a twofold result. The mem- brane, being confined by its outer tunic, now no longer distensible, as well as by the surround- ing stroma into which the vesicle has now begun to sink, becomes more deeply plicated ; and since it can no longer extend outwardly, it must of necessity encroach upon the cavity within. The latter thus becomes sensibly diminished, whilst the entire thickness of its boundary wall is in like proportion increased. At the end of the first two months of ges- tation, the follicle possesses considerable soli- dity. The wavy and plicated condition of the yellow ovisac is now less distinct. The whole of this coat exhibits the appearance of a thick yellow layer, still occasionally traversed by numerous little blood-vessels, which run across it in straight lines from without inwards as far as its inner surface. The larger of these vessels probably do not actually pierce the yellow coat, but lie between the sulci, repre- senting the original folds of the ovisac, and which, now pressed back to back without being yet obliterated, would still serve for the conve3'ance of blood-vessels to different parts of the tunic. These changes continued to be in a certain sense progressive until the fourth month of gestation, about which time the Graafian fol- licle is usually considered to attain its highest state of development. But if the term de- velopment be admitted, it should be remem- bered that the only apparent purpose of these and other changes which ensue is still the ob- literation of the structures in which they occur. The process of obliteration, however, has at this time not proceeded so far as to have caused the removal or even diminution of any of the original parts composing the follicle, whilst some new structures are super- added or produced by metamorphosis of the original materials. The follicle at this period generally affords the best opportunity for observing the changes which result from impregnation. It may therefore be selected for a critical examination of the subject. The external condition of the ovary in which such a follicle is contained serves at once to point out the precise seat which the structure occupies. Not only is the entire ovary larger than that of the opposite side, but it appears more swollen, and is perceptibly harder in one particular spot; over or near this spot a cicatrix may still be visible, and in its immediate neighbourhood are often found some serpentine vessels. If, now, a section be made of the ovary in this situation so as not to pass through the centre, but to include only a portion of the circumference of the follicle, the latter will present the condi- tion represented in Jig. 386. The follicle, in the Fig. 386. Section of the ovary of a woman who died at the end of the fourth montii of utero-oestation. The Graa- fian follicle of the ovum which had been impreg- nated projects above the stroma. (Ad Nat.) a, outer vascular coat (tunic of the ovisac); b, yellow inner coat (ovisac), from which a thin slice has been removed, not deep enough to lay open the cavity, hut displaying the brain-like convolutions; e, portion of the follicle corresponding to b. form of a little globe, is seen to occupy about a fourth part of the ovary. Its solidity and spherical form cause it to project considerably above the surface of the section. In this way is exposed the outer coat by which the follicle is bounded. Upon this coat numerous blood- vessels, derived from the ovarian stroma, ra- mify. It is the tunic of the ovisac, the origi-