RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 261 diameter, the parietes of which are composed almost exclusively of fine small cylinder epi- thelium. The cylinder epithelium of the ducts of these glands bears no cilia; a character in which it differs from that of the mucous mem- brane of the trachea in general. The ciliated variety ceases at the orifices of the ducts. The secretion of these glands is a limpid, non-corpusculated fluid. Here it is certain that the act of secretion is not synonymous with that of the shedding of the epithelium. Under certain pathological conditions the tracheal glands augment in size, and become choked with epithelial cells.* Fibrous Structures. — In the order from within outwards is next observed a remark- able layer of elastic tissue. It lies imme- diately underneath the mucous membrane (a, fig. 204. ; e,fig. 206.). It consists of two varieties of fibre, the yellow and the white. The former lies chiefly on the posterior wall, over the trachealis muscles. Its fibres are here disposed in a regular longitudinal direc- tion. They are gathered into thick bundles readily seen with the naked eye, even through the mucous membrane, of rV of an inch in thickness. They descend in a ser- pentine manner along the posterior aspect of the trachea, and will be afterwards traced on the bronchi. They frequently anasto- mose. Smaller fibres, forming a thinner layer of the same tissue, are distributed over the anterior walls of the trachea; like the former portion, running under the mucous membrane and preserving uniformly a lon- gitudinal course. Another order of elastic tissue lies between the ring-cartilages, tying them together cylindrically. Of this tissue the fibres are more slender than those of the former, and belong to the white variety (Bowman). It is to the elastic property of this tissue that the trachea owes its power of lengthening and shortening, a power which in birds is more remarkable than in mammalia. The tracheal cartilaginous rings come next to be described. Each cartilage forms a little more than three quarters of a circle ( e>fiS< 207.), It embraces the anterior three- fourths of the tracheal tube. The deficient portion, comprising the remaining fourth of the circle, is completed by muscle and mem- brane and elastic tissue (Jc, Jig. 207.). This * "Die Driisen des Kehlkopfs unci der Luftwege uberhaupt werden bei Catarrhen hiiufig verandert, so dass ihre Blascken bis O08 selbst 0-15"' messen und mit kleinen rundlichen Zellen erfiilt sind, die wohl den auf Schleimhautoberflachen sich bilden- den Schleimkbrperchen sich vergieichen lasseu."—■ Kolliker, Anat. Mik., p. 452. " Interdum hse crypto? mucosas amplificatse, ita ut pame 1"' latsc sint, et sinubus seeundariis in- structs reperiuntur. In hoc casu illaa same usque in regionem plexuum vasorum postea et porrigun- tur. In prepavatis per longum tempus in spiritu vini asservatis apertura harum cryptarum muco- sarum nudis oculis optime cerni poterant, atque imprimis numerosse in panctis antincns intsrstitiis non cartilagineis et in pariete posteriore animad- vertebautur."—Disq. de Struc. et Text. Canal, aerif. S. E. SclmlUe, 1850. description applies only to the case of the human subject. In the sheep the posterior Fig 207. Transverse section of the trachea through the middle of (««d parallel with) one of the cartilaginous rings. (After Schultz.) a, ciliated epithelium, lining the inside; h, elastic longitudinal tissue; h, the tracheal muscles; e, ring cartilage;/, external areolar tissue; i, blood- vessels ; /, tracheal glands. ends of the tracheal cartilages meet, to pro- ject behind as spinous processes, thus con- cealing the trachealis muscle. In the horse the same parts of the ring cartilages over- lap. This arrangement prevails also in the dog. In the ox the posterior ends of the tracheal rings are everted. Each cartilage is embraced in a fibrous perichondrium (f,fig. 207.) which is intimately united to the inter-annular fibrous tissue. In ultimate structure these cartilages are chiefly composed of cells interspersed through a fibrous basis (b, c, d, c, b, fig. 206.). The cells are largest and doubly nucleated in the centre of each cartilage (7/). At the inner and outer surface these cells become flat- tened and elongated (b, b). In different parts of a vertical section of the cartilage they present different directions as regards their long axes (d). They are charged, in addition to the nucleus, with minute fat molecules. The first and last rings of the trachea are figured differently from the rest. The first constitutes a complete ring of cartilage, and is frequently anchylosed to the cricoid. The last is prolonged backwards over the mem- branous interval ; consisting of more than one piece, it arches over the angle where the trachea bifurcates into the primary bronchi. By such skilful adaptation of these elastic rings, the occlusion of the air-tube is prevented during the varied motions of the neck and chest. Unlike the laryngeal cartilages, the tracheal manifest no disposi- tion to ossify. They amount, in man, to from 16 to 20 in number, and measure each in width, from above downwards, about one line and a half. They frequently fork at their posterior s 3