481 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. teeth, and thence with the teeth of all verte- brata. Again, it appears to me indubitable that the teeth and the hairs are homologous organs; they are therefore either both en- deronic or both ecderonic. Taking for granted the validity of a basement membrane as a mark of the boundary between ecderon and enderon, I elsewhere* arrived at the conclu- sion that the teeth are enderonic organs, and that therefore the hairs must follow them. Now, however, that a " basement membrane " turns out to be no test at all, there seems no reason why we should not be guided entirely by the direction of growth, and consider both hairs and teeth as ecderonic organs; the former being a development of the cellular ecderon, and corresponding with the ordinary horny epidermis ; the latter, a development of a deep layer of the ecderon beneath this. It appears to me that we can do no other than admit this view for the teeth ; but if this be the case, we may apply it to the scales of fish (and the " dermal plates " of reptiles ?) also; as there are no difficulties about the latter which are not also presented by the teeth. There appear, in fact, to be but few ob- jections of any importance to the assump- tion of the ecderonic nature of fish scales, the principal ones being the continuation of the tissue of the ecderon over the upper surface of the scales; the apparent passage of the bony structure into the laminae of the connective tissue of the enderon below, and the vascularity of the latter. The continuity of the enderon over the scales will be seen below to be more apparent than real. I have not been able entirely to satisfy myself, as to the exact relations of the parts, in the case of the eel, but in the other fishes which I have examined the surface of the scale is very partially covered by the enderon, being in its centre, at any rate, in'contact with the cellular ecderon. The vascularity of the scale never extends to its most superficial layers, and may be ex- plained in the same way as that of the test of an Ascidian, which however is unquestionably an ecderonic structure. Thepassageof its deep layers directly into the connective bundles of'the enderon, which Leydig has observed in Poly- pterus (and which I will not say]does not occur elsewhere, though I have not observed it), would appear to me only to indicate that this scale, and perhaps others, are composed of two portions, a superficial ecderonic part extend- ing as far as the most superficial vascular canals, and a deep portion beneath these be- longing to the enderon. However, all these points can only be de- cided by a much more extensive series of in- vestigations, principally directed to the ascer- tainment of the position of the protomorphic line and of the direction of growth of the constituents of every scale, than I have hither- to had time or opportunity to carry out ; and as the attention of other observers does * On the Structure and "Development of the Teeth, Quarterly Journal of Micros. Science, 1852. Sup p. not appear to have been directed to these par- ticular points, the question must for the present remain undecided. Professor Williamson in his valuable and philosophical contributions to our knowledge of this subject (Phil. Trans. 1849-1852) laid the foundation for a comprehension of the mode of development of fish-scales, by pointing out that Agassiz's views, though essentially true, yet require a certain modifi- cation. For though a fish-scale does really grow by the apposition of layers to its deep surface, as Agassiz asserted, yet it is not in- cluded in a sac of the epidermis (if by that term we are to understand the ordinary cellular ecderon); and it is also true that its deeper portions grow by their superficial surface. Professor Williamson points out, in fact, that every fish-scale consists of at least two portions, a superficial homogeneous, or at most canaliculated, laminated layer, the ganoin (so called enamel or horny layer of authors), and a deeper, also laminated, fre- quently fibrous or osseous portion commonly traversed by Haversian canals. Now these two portions have a certain independence in their mode of growth, at any rate alter their first formation, as may be easily understood by the accompanying diagram {Jig. 307.), which represents a series of imaginary sections of scales from their first growth onwards ; a, is the protomorphic plane ; b, b", the deep ecde- ron ; b', the superficial cellular ecderon, and the line x, the centre of the scales from which development commenced. Fig. 307. Suppose a to be the youngest scale, con- stituted merely by a thickening and calcifica- tion of the deep ecderon, which in n has added several layers by apposition to its inner surface, all of which retain the ganoin struc- ture except the deepest, which becomes fibrous in its texture, and forms the commencement of the " Lepidine" layers of the scale ;—these layers, however, being as much a part of the ecderon as the former. In c the scale widen- ing, the edges of its " Lepidine " layer do not remain in contact with the ganoin layer; but it will be obvious that the re-entering angle thus formed by the protomorphic line between the two, is only, as it were, a fold of the deep surface. If the two layers go on increasing i i