585 OVARY—(Abnormal Anatomy). stance, of the consistence and aspect of lard or butter, in the midst of which are imbedded those coils of loose hair with which it is usually associated (fig. 397. d). This fatty material is of a white or yellowish hue, and is commonly inodorous, but sometimes it ex- hales an intolerably fetid odour, especially in those cases where air has been admitted into the sac, and partial decomposition has taken place, or where fetid pus has been formed within the cyst. The second condition under which fat is found is that of masses \—I" in thickness, lying beneath the general lining of the sac, which is protruded before them, caus- ing irregular elevations into the interior of the cyst (fig. 397. a). These present the ordinary character of adipose tissue, but pos- sess a smaller proportion than usual of the cellular element. Hair is found in ovarian cysts also under two forms, either still attached to the walls or lying in loo.^e tangled coils in the centre of the cavity. Those attached to the walls are seen to spring from follicles, which may be scattered evenly over the cyst wall, in which case the hairs are usually short, or they may arise from a group of hair follicles, closely set, and imbedded in a substance clearly possess- ing the characters of ordinary skin. In the latter case the portions of integument from which they spring are generally elevated upon a mass of subcutaneous fat, as just described, and the hairs, which are well nourished and long, form at their free ends a tangled coil, intermingled with the loose fat already men- tioned (Jig. 397.). In these cases the hair often attains to a considerable length ; it is fine anil smooth, and resembles the long hair of the back of the bead, exceeding sometimes in length two feet. The colour of the hair is usually red, dark brown, or black ; it bears no resemblance to the hair of the individual in whom it occurs. Thus, in the case of an ovarian cyst occurring in a negress, Andral observed numerous hairs differing essentially from the woolly hair of the head ; they were soft, smooth, red, or blonde, and some were silvery, like the hair of children of white races. The loose hairs may be easily detached by maceration in turpentine or ether, from the mass of fatty substance in which they are entangled. They are then sometimes seen to be destitute of bulbs. They are usually more crisp and shorter than the attached hairs, ex- cept when the latter occur singly. Teeth are very commonly found associated with hair and fat. These may possess the perfect character of incisor canine or molar teeth, but more frequently the resemblance is only general, and a more accurate examination discovers in them some imperfection of form. The resemblance is sometimes greatest to the deciduous, and sometimes to the permanent set. In the less perfect forms the crowns only are developed, the roots being deficient. But in most cases the intimate texture of the tooth differs in no respect from the ordinary dental structure.* * This is illustrated by Plate 121. of Professor Ovarian teeth are generally found associated with portions of irregular-shaped bone, in which they are often imbedded. They may, however, be attached to the tegumentary lining of the cyst walls, and more rarely they have been found connected to portions of cartilage. Bone.—The bones found within ovarian cysts differ from the ossified portions occa- sionally observed in the cyst in this respect, that, while the latter consist of merely crystalline or amorphous aggregations of earthy matter, the former, although irregular in shape, yet exhibit a true osseous structure, in which may be readily detected the usual arrangement of concentric lamellae, Haversian canals, lacunae and canaliculi. Such bones often bear a sufficient resemblance to frag- ments of jaws and vertebras to admit of a general comparison with those parts of the skeleton ; but well-shaped and perfect bones are not found, except in cysts of whose nature and origin some doubts at least may be enter- tained. In fig. 397. are represented several of the solid structures commonly found in an ovarian cyst. A long coil of tangled hair, mixed with lardaceous matter, is seen springing from a portion of the cyst wall at a part which is lined by common integument. Here many Fie. 397 >^ll|||izx Ovarian cyst containing hair, loose fatty matter, adi- pose tissue, sehaceous glands, and hair follicles. (After Cruveilkier.) hair follicles are observed, some being empty, and others containing short hairs. The parts Owen's " Odontography," exhibiting the microscopic structure of a tooth, from an ovarian cyst in my collection. Five other teeth were contained in this cyst, together with a portion of tegumental struc- ture, subcutaneous fat, bone, and hair.