242 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). every respect, those of the Ferns. The anthe- ridia of the Equisetacea? are placed, not upon Fig. 170. Antheridia of Equisetum, 300 diam. a, ripe antheridium, from which the antherozoids are beginning to escape; b, unripe antheridium. (Hofmeister.) the inferior surface, but along each margin of the principal branch of the prothallium 88. Archegonium. — The archegonia were first discovered and figured by Milde * in Equisetum Telmateia, and have been since more completely described by Hofmeisterf and BischoffJ in two other species. The pro- jecting papilliform portion consists, according to the last-mentioned observer, of eight cells, of which the four lower, in apposition to each other, have the general form of truncated cones, each presenting two flattened surfaces by which it is united to its two neighbours. The upper, in the same relation to each other, are nearly cylindrical, but are slightly rounded at their summits. The axis of the organ is occupied by a quadrilateral intercellular passage. The whole is supported on a base, which consists of two or three rows of cells Fig. 171. Archegonium of Equisetum Telmateia, 200 diam. The axial canal terminates in a spherical cavity, which is deeply embedded in the tissue of the prothallium, and contains the germ-cell. (Bi- schoff.) * Zur Entwick. der Equiseten. Bot. Zeitung, St. 32, 1852. f Beitrage zur Kenntnisse der Gefasskryptogamen (referred to by Bischoff in the following paper.). % Ann. des Sc. Nat. 3me S. t. xix. p. 234. (Ex- tract from Bot. Zeitung, St. 6. Feb. 1853.). superimposed upon each other, which com- bine to form a circular wall round a central cavity, which contains the germ, and is the termination of the quadrilateral canal. On the transformation of the germ-cell into the embryo, observations are as yet wanting. 89. Sporesand sporangia.—The organs upon which the spore-cases are supported are ar- ranged in whorls round the upper part of the fruit-bearing stem. They seem to be modifications of the ordinary stem-leaves, on which account they have received the name of sporophylla. In its earliest condition, the sporophyllum is a cellular projection of the surface ; but, as it advances towards maturity, it assumes the form of a hexagonal disc Fig. 172. Vertical section of one of the sporophylla of Equi- setum limosum, 100 diam. a, mature sporangium ; b, another in outline. The capsule of the sporangium is composed, when ripe, of the external layer of cells only, in conse- quence of the absorption of the two inner layers, which resemble in their structure those described more at length in the sporangium of Selaginella (§ 94.), and seem destined to afford the ma- terials for the rapid growth and development of the mother cells of the spores. attached by a pedicle at its centre. Upon the surface of the disc which faces the stem, the spore-cases are formed. Each spore-case originates as a little papilla, and consists of a large central cell, which is invested by a single layer of others of smaller size. As the organ enlarges, these last are transformed into a capsule consisting of three concentric layers, within which is enclosed a mass of cells exhibiting large central nuclei and grumous contents. In each of these cells the nucleus is afterwards replaced by two others similar to it, which almost fill the cavity. These, however, soon disappear, and now four globular nuclei, much smaller than their predecessors, present themselves, and are arranged, as in the Hepaticae, towards the four angles of a regular tetrahedron. Around each nucleus a tetrahedral cell is formed, within which, after it has become detached from its fellows, there is deposited on the inner surface of its membrane, a gelatinous transparent layer. Within this layer, and immediately surrounding the nucleus, may be distinguished the primordial vesicle, on the surface of which the cellulose membrane of the future spore is secreted, as well as the two parallel, elastic fibres by which it is surrounded. When the spore is ripe, these last, which are external to the