RUMINANTIA. 544 their terminations to form a single common duct. The glands of Couper, placed behind the urethral bulb are rounded and conspi- cuous. The penis is long and usually bent upon itself, in the form of the letter s a little anterior to the bulb. In some genera the glans is apparently very small in con- sequence of its attenuation, as in the bull. In all cases the canal of the urethra ends in front by an extremely narrow whip-like process of the corpus spongiosum, remind- ing us of the modifications of this organ in certain mollusks. The prepuce is prolonged forward in the form of an elastic sheath, which in the Giraffe is so closely adherent to the bulbous root of the glans, as to be with difficulty separated ; by putting the parts a little on the stretch, we have found the re- flection fully two inches posterior to the glans. Preputial follicles abound in the An- telopes and Cervidse, and in the Musk-deer there is a special glandular pouch commu- nicating with the cavity of the prepuce by a single duct; it is from this structure that the substance music is derived. Female organs. — Generally speaking the omnia (1c, Jig. 366.) and fallopian tubes (h) have the same relation to each other as in other mammifera, but differences exist in regard to the connection of these parts with Fig. the broad ligaments in the cameline and horned ruminants severally. They have been indicated by Prof. Owen as follows.* — " In the Camel the greater part of the capsula ovarii is formed by the expanded fimbriated aperture of the oviduct itself, which is of very large size, and which encloses the ovarium, In Deer, Antelopes, and Cows, the ovarium is lodged in a depression or sacculus of the broad ligament, which is more or less deep, ami has its apertures more or less contracted in different species. In the Giraffe the peri- toneal sacculus of the ovary, formed by an expansion of the broad ligament of the uterus, is wide and deep, and encloses almost the whole of the ovary. The fimbriated ex- tremity of each oviduct, or fallopian tube, is expanded upon the outer margin of the ova- rian capsule. The inner surface of the pa- vilion is beset with very numerous and fine oblique striae, and is further increased by narrow folds of lamince converging towards the contracted opening duct. The oviduct forms three or four wavy folds, and is then continued along the walls of the wide ovarian- capsule to the extremity of the uterine horn, which makes an abrupt curve to meet it." In all ruminants, as in Solipeda and several other mammalian orders, the cavity of the uterus (a, fig. 366.) is prolonged superiorly 366. Uterus and its appendages, from the Sheep. into two horns from the inner surface of placentuke. In the Camels, where the ovum which project a number of glandular pro- tuberances (e, e, Jig.366.). These processes are highly vascular, and exhibit eminences and follicular depressions for the implantation of the tufted filaments of the cotyledons or is nourished, as in the Mare and Sow, by a villous chorion universally adherent to the uterine walls, these processes are not pre- * Memoir, c. p. 241.