STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 389 c c 3 dissolved salts, which are by no means in- different to the organism. In the following cursory view of the ordinary articles of diet, we shall begin by contrasting the general characters of animal and vegetable food. We shall then sketch the chief va- rieties of each generally made use of. And, finally, we shall attempt to estimate the pro- portions of each contained in a suitable die- tary of ordinary mixed food. It is to animal food that we must on the whole assign the first rank as an article of diet. For not only do the tissues of one animal necessarily contain most, if not all, of the organic and inorganic substances required for the construction of another, and in some- thing like the proper proportions of their respective ingredients, but they are generally devoid of all noxious constituents, Besides these advantages, they offer the equally im- portant ones of possessing such a structure, arrangement, anil solubility, as materially aid their entry into the organism. Hence they are not only much more nutritious than an equal quantity of vegetable food, but are also di- gested and assimilated with far greater ease and rapidity. It is for this reason that the use of animal food is so much to be preferred in all circumstances where it is our object to avert the speedy exhaustion of the vital powers. Against these advantages, possessed by animal food, we must, however, set off the disadvantages, that it not only contains some substances which (like gelatine and the homy tissues) appear to be either useless or even to require a speedy excretion ; but that, as a rule, it is deficient in those non-azotized elements, which are so important to the main- tenance of the combustion and heat of the organism. For the limited quantity of fatty matters which it generally includes rarely suffices to make these hydrocarbons a proper substitute for the copious amylaceous and saccharine constituents of vegetable food. The main disadvantages of vegetable food are equally obvious. It generally contains but a small proportion of the protein com- pounds. And even this limited quantity is often virtually diminished by their insoluble state ; or by the indigestible form which is implied by their mechanical arrangement in the vegetable tissues. Many of its amyla- ceous constituents are also rendered useless in the same way: being enclosed in insoluble envelopes, which effectually shield them from the digestive process; or having a composi- tion which requires to be altered by a chemi- cal metamorphosis before they can be fitted for absorption. These objections can be to a great extent obviated by the ingestion of a larger quantity of such food, as well as by a more protracted sojourn in the alimentary canal. But, besides these disadvantages, the inorganic constituents of certain kinds of vegetable food appear to be insufficient for the replacement of the loss consequent on the waste of the animal. Thus the ash of many esculent vegetables is peculiarly deficient in the important ingredients of soda and the chlorides. The poisonous materials con- tained in the tissues of some plants constitute another objection to vegetable diet; — an objection which is, however, generally ob- viated by the instinct of animals, and by the experience of Man, or by the purification which the process of cooking often affords. Animal food. — The muscular substance, accompanied by more or less of its intersti- tial and investing fat and areolar tissue, forms what is called meat or Jlesh, in the ordinary acceptation of these words. The mechanical subdivision of a mass of meat would of course afford us the micro- scopic eleinentsof the above tissues; — namely, sarcolemma, sarcous substance, white and yellow fibrous elements, fat, and blood vessels ; together with a certain quantity of blood, and of the nutritional fluids which sa- turate each of these textures. Its chemical composition varies, not only with the nature, but also with the age, food, habits, and indi- vidual peculiarities, of the animal yielding it. Hence it is impossible to give any definite account of its quantitative chemistry. We can only enumerate its principal constituents ; and, in the case of some of the more im- portant of them, approximatively estimate their amount. The protein-compound, that forms by far the greater part of the mus- cular fibres, is a substance which possesses characters closely allied to those of fibrin, and has received the name of syntonin. It is usually present in a proportion of about 15 or 16 per cent. The albumen of the juice which soaks the whole muscular mass, and the gelatin which is extracted from it by boiling, may each be estimated at about 2 per cent. Its extractive, exclusive of salts, amounts to about 3 per cent. ; of which nearly half is dissolved by alcohol, half by water. This constituent has a very complex composition : osmazom, lactic acid, inosit, kreatin, kreatinin, and a variety of other substances, having been detected in it by the labours of modern chemists. The salts of meat form about 1^ per cent, of its fresh substance, or about 5 per cent, of its dried mass ; nearly three-fourths of their quantity being phosphates of the alkalies, and two-thirds of the remainder phosphates of the earths, with a little iron. The chlorides of the alkalies are about one-fourteenth of the entire ash. They are remarkably contrasted with the chlorides contained in the ash of the blood, by the great proportion which the chloride of potassium bears to that of sodium. It is impossible to estimate the quantity of fat contained in meat as usually eaten. But even after the removal of all visible adipose tissue, Von Bibra has found fractions ranging from one-twentieth to one-fifth ; the smaller amounts corresponding to the flesh of the Hare and Deer, while the larger (in the beef of Oxen) were perhaps partially due to a more or less artificial fattening. The flesh of Birds contains less water and fat, and more albumen, syntonin, and kreatin, than that of most of the Mammalia hitherto