PELVIS. 136 and the tuberosities of the ischia are near each other so as to present a small opening at the inferior outlet. Soenimerring remarks that the obturator foramen is more elliptical in the infant than in the adult. The depth and general appearance of the true pelvis is smaller than is proportionate to the iliac wings; and it is of nearly equal breadth throughout. The parallelism of the lateral, as well as of the anterior and posterior pelvic walls is, I think, sufficiently marked and general to be considered as a characteristic of the con- formation of the infant pelvis, as we shall find it to be of that of most of the lower animals, giving to it a square-sidedness which is well seen in the adjoining figure. Fie. 85. crease, than to diminish, the pelvi-vcrtebral angle. Pelvis of the Cltild at birth. The sacrum and coccyx in the child at birth are much less curved, vertically, than they afterwards become, which causes the posterior wall to be longer than is propor- tionate. The coccyx, indeed, in many in- stances I have seen, was almost vertical. The sacro-vertebral angle is consequently much less marked than in the adult. Doubt- less, muscular action, increasing as the de- velopment of the bones progresses, has a great effect in producing the diminution of the sacro-vertebral angle backwards in after life. It is commonly stated by anatomists, that the infant pelvis is more obliquely placed on the spinal column than the adult pelvis. The inclination of the superior plane in the child has been placed by the brothers Weber at an angle of 154-66 with the transverse vertical plane. This is somewhat less than the in- clination in the male, according to the same observers, viz. 155°. The following table is the result of the measurements of the pelvic angles of five infants, made to ascertain the correctness of this statement. The angles were carefully taken, with much precaution against any ab- normal displacement, so readily occurring in the pliant structures of the infant, by making an antero-posterior vertical section of the pelvis and whole spinal column with the whole of the soft parts attached, and in such a manner as would have tended rather to in- 1. Foetus at 6 months, female 2. „ „ male • 3. Infant at full term, 7 days old,yVm(//e 4. Infant at full term female 5. Infant at full term, still bom, large and well' made, male Angles. Peri- verte- bral. Sacro. verte- bral. l.-.n- 155° 150° 145° 150° 145° 150° 140° 140° 140° It will be remarked that the greatest dif- ference from the adult is observable in the sacro-vertebral angle, which is from 10° to 15° greater than the average female adult, and from 23° to 28° greater than the average male adult. I should here state, also, that the results of my own measurements of the angle of the superior pelvic plane in adult male subjects, have given somewhat less angles than that stated by Weber. According to Cruvcilhicr, a horizontal line, from the upper border of the pubis, meets the posterior wall much lower in the infant than in the adult, though the point at which he places it in the adult, viz., a little below the base of the sacrum, is much too high in the natural position of the pelvis, as will be seen by inspection of the diagram (fig. 84.). In all the infant pelves 1 have just given, the tip of the coccyx reached as low as the lower border of the symphysis pubis ; both these points exactly coinciding with a line drawn perpendicular to the transverse verti- cal plane. This may, perhaps, be attributed to the greater flatness of the sacro-coccygeal wall in the infant, extending it further down- ward. In No. 5. the male child at full term, the angle of inclination of the pubic sj/mp/it/sis to the transverse vertical plane was only 25°, but in the last female child it was, 40°, both being less than the mean adult angle, 50°, before given, and showing, like the sacro- vertebral angle, a greater tendency to parallel- ism with the spine, as in the inferior animals, an analogy which is also seen in the elongated conjugate diameter. Resulting from this tardy development of the pelvis,"the bladder and greatest portion of the rectum, in the child at birth, are con- tained almost entirely in the abdominal cavity, on a level with the ilia or false pelvis, and onlv descend gradually afterward into their adult position with the slow development of the pelvic bones, assuming their permanent position about the period of puberty, a cir- cumstance very necessary to be borne in mind in operations on these viscera in chil- dren below that age. Hence one cause of the greater prominence of the belly in children from the additional number of its visceral contents.