RUMINANTIA. 525 Fig. 350. 30 '? is View o the deep muscles of the trunk in the Ox. (From Gurlt.) levat. lab. super.; 2, pyramidalis nasi; 3, buccinator; 4, depressor lab. infer.; 5, masseter; G, temporalis; 7, splenius capitis; 8, levat. ang. scap.; 9, rhomboideus ; 10, serratus major ; 11, caput secundum deltoidei; 12, scalenus anterior; 13, caput secund. sterno-maxillaris; 14, abductor brachii superior; 15, serrat. post, inferior; 16,obliquus interims; 17, iliacus internus; 18, gluteus medius; 19, glut, minimus; 20, glut, maximus ; 21, pyriformis ; 22, levat. caudas brevis ; 23, lev. caud. longus ; 24, coccygeus ; 25, rectus femoris; 26, vastus externus; 27, adductor magnus; 28, semitendinosus; 29, adduct. tibiae longus; 30, intertransversales caudas. processes of the anterior six or eight dorsal vertebra;. In the Camel it originates from the posterior half of the cervical ligament and the spinous apophyses proper to the first half of the thorax. It is more limited in the Giraffe, where, according to the investigations of Prof. Owen, " it consists of two pretty distinct portions ; one arises from the trans- verse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras ; its fleshy part is thick and strong, but expands as it passes downwards and backwards, and finally is lost in a strong fascia overspreading the large shoulder joint. The second portion is thin and broad ; it arises from the ligamentum nuchas, and is in- serted into the fascia covering the scapula."* That part corresponding to the clavicular or anterior division of the trapezius in the human subject is widely separated from the muscle just described, and is associated with the cleido-mastoideus and deltoides so as to form a tripartite mass, for which Cuvier pro- posed the name of masto-humeralis. It is the levator humeri proprius of Stubbs, the commu- nis capitis, pectoris et brachii of some, and the deltoides of others (8,8,8,/g.349). In the Sheep and in the Ox it consists principally of two portions with an intervening smaller muscular bundle situated at the centre of the neck, and connecting the clavicular portion of the tra- pezius to the tendon of the cleido-mastoidens. The superior or more superficial belly be- comes implanted into the humerus, while the inferior or deeper division is inserted into the sternum. At their upper attachments the duplicity is very apparent, the broad muscular part being united to the ligamentum nuchas, and the rounded tendon being fixed to the mastoid apophysis. After removing the trapezius, our attention is at once directed to a large broad muscle, which in the human subject is represented by the splenius capitis and sp>len. ccrvicis. In the * Memoir, c. Ox and most other ruminants, the cranial division is alone present ; but in the Sheep, according to the researches of Meckel, there are two portions — an anterior or cranial, which is narrow and insignificant, and a posterior of large size, taking its origin by two bundles from the third and fourth cer- vical vertebras, to be attached to the trans- verse process of the atlas. In the Camels both may be said to be absent, but there is a small muscular slip, proceeding from the ten- don of the digastricus to be inserted into the occiput, which Meckel thinks may constitute a rudimentary form of the splenius capitis. Beneath the splenius, and often incorpo- rated with it, lies the trackelo-mastoideus, which is feebly developed in ruminants and solipeds, but is of large size in the marsupials and edentate mammals. The great complexus and digastricus colli muscles are united into a sin- gle mass, as in the Horse, and in these animals this compound muscle arises by nine or ten fleshy and tendinous slips—intersected by aponeurotic prolongations — from the third cervical to the second or third dorsal ver- tebras inclusive. In the Camel there are only seven bundles of origin, and a single long aponeurotic septum, and in the Sheep all traces of the latter are absent. The transversalis cervicis is closely adherent to the trachelo-mastoideus. Separated from the former, there is in some ruminants a muscle, which — corresponding with that por- tion of the sacro-lumbalis in man, called the cervicalis descendens—stretches from between the transverse apophyses of several of the lower cervical vertebrae to the oblique and transverse processes of certain of the dorsal segments. Meckel alludes to this peculiarity in the Horse. The scaleni muscles, three in number on either side, are very long and powerfully developed in the Camel and Giraffe, presenting in the latter, according to Prof. Owen, four distinct masses, which take their origin "from