59 OVUM. Each developed ovule, therefore, in these oviparous animals, comes to be contained in a pediculated capsule, which is formed by the extension of the substance of the ovary ; but from the great extent to which the dilatation of the capsule occurs, the true ovarian stroma is reduced to a very small amount, and scarcely more remaining than the theca of the capsule itself and the ovarian coverings. In the other animals possessing the large yolked ova, nearly the same structure of the ovary prevails. In chelonia and crocodiles, it is indeed almost identical with that in birds. In lizards and serpents, the hollow state of the ovary produces some difference in the general form ; and in cartilaginous fishes (sharks and rays) other differences in the structure of the ovary may exist; but in all these animals the essential points of rela- tion between the ovarian substance and cap- sules, and the large ovules, are the same as that now described in birds. The lining membrane of the ovicapsule of birds is thick and tough, and on its inner sur- Fis 43. Structure of the ovisac in the FowVs ovary. A. Inner surface of a portion of the ovisac of a fully-developed ovarian capsule, magnified about six diameters, showing an appearance which might be mistaken for glandular depressions produced by the peculiar disposition of the veins. b. The same, from a calyx from which the ovum has been discharged some days before; a whitish flaky membrane is deposited on portions of the surface. c. The same, from an undeveloped capsule of a quarter of an inch in diameter, across the stigmatic band. d. The disposition of the blood-vessels near the stigmatic band, which seems at first sight non-vascu- lar, but is in reality traversed by ramifying small vessels proceeding from the neighbouring larger veins, and crossing the stigmatic band. e. Two of the large mouths of the veins, which give the semblance of follicular pits represented in A and c, but which are quite closed, with the smaller vessels ending in them, as seen from the inner surface of the ovisac. face presents a soft appearance somewhat si- milar to that of a mucous membrane. In ex- amining the inner surface of this membrane, Dr. Sharpey and the author had their atten- tion arrested by an appearance such as might, on first sight, be attributed to a number of follicular or glandular pits. This appearance, as we first observed it, is represented in fig. 43. (a, b, c) as it was seen in a fully-developed capsule — in one a third of an inch in diameter — and in a calyx from which the yolk bad been discharged some days previously. We supposed, indeed, at first that the appearance depended on the presence of the orifices of follicular depressions or glands on the inner surface of the membrane. A more attentive examination of this membrane by Dr. Sharpey has shown that the appearance is not due to depressions of the inner surface of the membrane or to the mouths of follicles opening upon it, but is caused by a peculiar form of the blood-vessels seen through the entire and smooth inner surface of the mem- brane. The apparent depressions are in fact the sudden terminations or beginnings of veins of considerable size seen through a delicate and transparent portion of the membrane which closes them towards the inner surface. They may be made very obvious by merelv coarsely brushing the smooth blunt edge of any instrument over the membrane, and thus causing the blood to flow from the vessels in other parts in these sinuses or dilated veins. It would appear that the smaller capillary vessels in which the arteries terminate, in ap- proaching the inner surface of the capsule, ramify with considerable minuteness, and at each of the marks or apparent depressions referred to suddenly fail into or end in the