634 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. This is best shown in fine sections, pre- intermediate tissue to swell, the normal dis- viously prepared by acetic acid ; but it should tances between the cells may, to a certain be observed, that as this agent causes the extent, be thus artificially increased. The Fig. 436. Portion of uterine tissue from the internal muscular layers. (Ad Nat. x 150.) relation of the fibre-cells to the uniting ma- terial is most clearly exhibited in those parts of the preparation where the knife has divided the fibres transversely to their long axes. Here the relation of these two structures to each other may be exemplified by that of the harder and softer ingredients in certain por- tions of those geological formations termed conglomerate. At the points where the knife has cut the fibres obliquely, a corresponding change is observable in the outlines of the divided fibre- cells, which present in these bundles the figure of caudate cells, while in other places, where the course of the fibres has run paral- lel with the surface of the section, the fusi- form outline of the entire length of the fibre is distinguishable. All these varieties of direction are notice- able in fig. 436., in a portion of uterine tissue not more than -fa" in diameter. The fibres which are here seen forming bundles and layers, run in some instances parallel with the surfaces of the laminae, and in other places spread out fan-shaped, or incline towards each other, like the component fibrillae of the penniform muscles. The bundles and layers of fibres are close-set and compact, and a comparatively small amount of developed or fibrillated connective tissue is found between or among these elements of the innermost strata of the muscular coat. The fibre-cells also are here apparently softer and more fleshy, and appear to be of newer formation than those forming the layers which lie nearer to the peritoneum. External to and surrounding these may be distinguished a second order of strata, among which the primary and secondary ramifica- tions of the principal uterine arteries and veins are freely distributed ; so that sections taken from this region do not present the same compact appearance as those from the inner layers, but are seen to be everywhere per- meated by vascular channels, which are par- ticularly conspicuous in the multiparous uterus. These numerous vessels, ramifying among the muscular fibres, make the course of the latter very irregular. When the section has been made parallel with the broad liga- ment, the tortuous arteries, entering the uterine texture between the folds of the lat- ter, may be often traced to a considerable depth among the laminae; while sections made in an opposite direction more frequently exhibit the gaping orifices of these vessels, and of the divided veins surrounded by lami- na; of muscular fibres, and of a more lax and fibrillated form of connective tissue, than is found among the inner strata. This inter- mixture of the larger uterine vessels with the muscular strata constitutes here a very cha- racteristic feature, and hence these middle strata may be distinguished as the vascular lamina; of the muscular coat. External to these again lie a series of thin sheet-like lamina; (fig. 437.), forming a tegu- mental stratum which does not entirely sur- round the organ, nor cover it in all its parts. It consists of 6—12 thin close-lying layers of fibres, whose course is parallel with the uterine surface ; the most external laminae