489 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. zone, whence the polygonal areolation ob- served in it; while its colour arises partly from the brown epidermis shining through, partly from a slight tinge of the same kind which runs through the prismatic substance, and renders it distinguishable, even to the naked eye, from the intensely white nacreous layer. Thin vertical sections of these shells pre- sent the following appearances under a high magnifying power. The external edge is con- stituted by a delicate brown band, the " epider- mis," in which no structure of any kind can be detected. Within this is the pris- matic layer, a dense transparent substance marked by strong parallel lines which run perpendicularly to the surface and either extend completely through the layer, or termi- nate by joining some other within it. In the former case, the spaces which they enclose appear like the sections of prisms (of of an inch, more or less, in diameter) : in the latter, they resemble longer or shorter cones whose bases are turned outwards. A number of such short cones are usually interposed between those ends of the prisms which are in contact with the epidermis. Internally, or at the line of contact of the prismatic with the nacreous layer, the lines either remain parallel or converge. The prisms are readily broken away from one another, and in this case, or in a sufficiently thin section of the whole layer, they are seen to be traversed by very closely set pa- rallel transverse lines about ttt^oo m- apart. Each prism, however, does not possess a set of striae peculiar to itself; on the other hand, the parallel lines stretch without interruption through the whole length of the prismatic layer, as if the prisms were not there. A horizontal section of the prismatic layer pre- sents, as has been said, a coarse polygonal reticulation corresponding with the lines of contact of the prisms. The substance of the latter appears granular, but without any other structure in fully formed portions CAg.313. a). When a section of the prismatic substance is acted upon by dilute acid, the calcareous matter is extracted, and a membranous frame- work is left, presenting all the structural cha- racteristics of the original tissue, except that the prisms are now hollow, and from their trans- verse striations have been well compared by Dr.Carpenter to the scalariform ducts of plants. This membranous residuum readily tears up into laminae, each of which corresponds, usually, to a number of the fine horizontal striae. The white nacreous substance—membra- neous shell substance of Dr. Carpenter—which constitutes the interior of the shell, presents, in a vertical section, a horizontally striated appearance identical with that of the prismatic layer, and when macerated in acid it breaks up into corresponding laminae. In fact, if we leave out the vertical markings which give rise to the appearance of prisms in the latter, the two structures are identical. This point appears to me to have been overlooked and to have given rise to the impression that there is a much greater histological difference between the prismatic and membranous sub- stances, than really exists. The examination of the line of junction of the two substances {fig. 313. b), however will at once show their fundamental identity. The ends of some of the prisms will be seen in fact to project beyond the others into the membranous sub- stance ; but it will be observed that the hori- zontal lines of the latter pass without interruption through the prisms, and therefore that the laminae of the two structures are identical. If we reduce these facts to their simplest expression, it will result that these shells are composed throughout of superficial thin membranous lamina;, the outermost of which remains as epidermis, ivhile the inner receive a deposit of calcareous salts. Next comes the question, however, how are the structural dif- ferences between the prismatic and membra- nous layers produced. Dr. Carpenter, in his well-known Essay, propounded the doctrine that both varieties of shell structure are the result of the development and coalescence of cells sup- plied by the mantle of the mollusk ; these cells remaining permanently distinguishable and coalescing in rows, in the prismatic struc- ture, but bursting and becoming confused into a homogeneous tissue, in the membranous substance. Nor, indeed, would it have been very easy in 1848 to arrive at any other con- clusion than this, to which so great a number of appearances at first sight tend. Enabled, however, by Dr. Carpenter's great kindness and liberality to form my own judgment from his beautiful preparations, and having also worked over the fresh shells for myself, I have come to very different conclusions. I will not say that occasionally cells may not be en- closed in shell, but I believe I am in a posi- tion to show that, as a rule, shell-growth is not a case of conversion, but one of excretion, cells not being in any way directly concerned in the matter. We may consider, first, the growth of the shell as a whole ; and, secondly, that of its three constituents. Inasmuch as we know, that the shell of the young Unio or Anodon was once as thin as, or thinner than, the "epidermis" of the adult shell, and smaller than the smallest area, bounded by a concen- tric line on its outer surface ; further, since we know that no addition is made to the outer surface of the shell directly; it is clear that the shell must grow in size by addition to its margin; in thickness, by addition to its under surface. Furthermore, since the ex- treme margin of any shell is constituted by the horny "epiderm," internal to which is the gradually thickening layer of prismatic sub- stance, constituting the brown zone, within which again is the white nacreous area, formed by the superposition of membranous layers over the fully-formed thick prismatic sub- stance ; from all this, it appears to be equally