PELVIS. 1:5-i it is bent as over a pulley) ; the gemellus su- perior, to the outer surface of the ischiadic spine; the gemellus inferior, to the posterior extremity of the ischiadic tuberosity; and the quadratui femoris, to the external border of the same tuberosity. 3. Museles acting on the perineum and ge- nitals.—The jiosterior perineal group. The levator ani, to the middle of the inner surface of the symphysis pubis, to the inner surface of the ischiadic spine, and to the tip of the coccyx; the isehio-coccygeus, to the same inner surface of the ischiadic spine, to the lateral border of the coccyx, and to the inner surface of the small sacro-sciatic ligament; and the sphincter ani, to the tip of the coccyx. The anterior perineal group.—The trans- versa perinei, to the middle of the inner border of the ischial tuberosity; the accelerator urincB (or, in the female, the sphincter vagina), to the anterior part of the inner border of the isrhial tuberosity ; the erector penis (or, in the female, clitoridis), to the ascending ramus of the ischium ; and the compressores urethra;, to the descending ramus of the pubis, and to the sub-pubic ligament. Fascial Attachments.—Besides the fore- going, the pelvis also affords attachment to many important fascia?, which are susceptible of division into lumbar, abdominal, crural, pelvic, and perineal. The lumbar fascia is formed by the junction of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle with the fascia vertebralis, and the united posterior tendons of the internal oblique and external division of the transversalis tendon, and it is attached along the sacral crest and posterior surface of the fourth sacral bone, ami to the posterior half of the iliac crest, enclosing the sacro-lumbalis muscle. The abdominal fascia are three in number, viz., the fasciee transversalis, attached along the inner lip of the iliac crest, to Poupart's ligament, and to the crest, spine, and pec- tineal line of the pubis ; the fascia of thequa- dratus lumborum muscle, or anterior division of the tendon of the transversalis, attached to the inner lip of the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and to the ilio-lumbar ligament; and the iliac fascia, attached to the ilio-lumbar ligament, along the inner margin of the iliac crest, and to the anterior superior iliac spine. The crural fascia or fascia lata is divided into three portions, named, from their respective attachments to the three portions of the inno- minate bone, iliac, pubic, and ischiadic. The outer lip of the iliac crest, the anterior superior spine, and Poupart's ligament, give attachment to the iliac portion, which separates the lateral abdominal from the external leg muscles ; the spine, crest, angle, pectineal line, and descend- ing ramus of the pubis, to the pubic portion, which separates the internal leg muscles from the anterior abdominal and anterior perineal group of museles ; and the tuberosity and ascending ramus of the ischium to the ischiadic portion, which separates the posterior leg muscles from the posterior muscles of the perineal group. The pelvic fascia is composed of two por- tions, the recto-vesical and obturator, which, having a common attachment to the anterior surface and promontory of the sacrum, to the anterior and lateral parts of the pelvic brim, and to the iliac fascia, separate opposite the line of origin of the levator ani muscle, which arises between them, from the symphysis pubis to the ischiadic spine. The obturator division is attached to the inner margins ef the ischiadic tuberosity and ischio-pubic rami, being con- nected with the falciform margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament behind, and secluding the obturator muscle from the ischio-rectal fossa ; the recto-vesical division, forming the anterioi and lateral true ligaments of the bladder, is attached to the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis above the origin of the levator ani, and to the inner surface of the ischiadic spine. The perineal fascia is divided into two por- tions, deep and superficial, which enclose be- tween them the superficial muscles of the anterior perineal group, and also the bulb of the urethra and the rrura of the penis. The deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament is subdivided into two layers, anterior and pos- terior, which enclose between them the mem- branous urethra, with its compressor muscles and Cowper's glands. They are both attached to the lower border of the pubic symphysis and sub-pubic ligament, and to the inner border of the united ischio-pubic rami, and intervene between the posterior and anterior perineal groups of muscles. The superficial jjcrineal fascia covers in the anterior perineal region, and is attached to the anterior part of the inner border of the ischio-pubic rami, and to the anterior surface of the angle of the pubis. The crura of the penis, or, in the female, those of the clitoris, may also be mentioned as implanted on the rough inner border of the ischio-pubic rami about their junction ; as well as the round uterine ligamcut, in the fe- male, to the anterior surface of the pubis. Mechanics of the Human Pelvis.— When we consider the pelvis with regard to its architectural adaptations, and compare it with the principles of engineering, we are struck with the beautiful simplicity of the means by which it combines strength with elasticity, and lightness with capacity and unity of design. The weight of the trunk is to be transmitted through the lumbar ver- tebrae to the sacrum, and from thence to points of support, which vary with the posi- tion of the inferior extremities. In the erect position, these points are the femora. In the sitting position they are the tuberosities of the ischia. The experiments of Weber have proved that though the centre of gravity of the trunk itself (without the legs) is placed in the transverse vertical plane as high as the sterno-xiphoid joint, yet the centre of gravity of the whole body, as marked by the point of section of the before-mentioned transverse- vertical with a horizontal plane, is placed only