STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 386 of this material, which the waste of his body probably dismisses from his system within the same period of time. 2. The next group of alimentary substances is that of the fats, the composition of which has led to their receiving the generic name of hydro-carbons. They are found in both animal and vegetable food. In the milk, they are represented by its butter; the quantity of which amounts, on an average, to about 3J per cent. The great variety of different alimentary substances of this kind is such as to pre- clude even their enumeration. The most important are stearin, elain, and margarin. The composition of these three fats may be generally stated as almost corresponding to single equivalents of carbon and hydrogen: — or, more exactly, to ten atoms of each of these elements, minus one of hydrogen, and plus one of oxygen (C10 H9 Q1 ; or C79 + H„.4+O9.6 = 100). The uses sustained by these constitu- ents of the food in the organism are easy to indicate, but difficult to specify. The protection afforded by the fat of the body to its temperature, and to the mechanical safety of its internal structures, might perhaps be ac- complished without involving any rapid waste and replacement of the material by which it is afforded. But the vast quantity of fatty matter which enters into the composition of the nervous system, and the primary import- ance of this delicate and energetic organ to the maintenance of life, entitle us to infer, that its functions imply such a rapid metamorphosis of its substance, as can only be sustained by the continual supply of new materials to replace those rendered effete. And the numerical phenomena of nutrition further show, that the process of respiration is constantly dis- missing from the body an amount of carbonic acid, the proportion of which to the azotized egesta proves that it must have been derived more or less directly from an oxidation of the fatty, as well as of the albuminous, tissues. The quantity of fatty matter contained in the healthy organism strongly confirms these views; and thus helps to account for its dietetic importance. For, including all their varieties in the tissues just alluded to, we can hardly estimate the total hydro-car- bons of the human body at less than ^th or ith of its weight. And since they scarcely form e Joth part of the blood, it follows, that even assuming this nutrient fluid equal to ■ith of the corporeal weight, its fatty con- stituent amounts to little more than ¥^,jth or Tj-Joth of the fat which is deposited in the central and peripheric structures of the nervous system, and stored up in the adipose cells of other parts of the body. Such an estimate further entitles us to conjecture, not only that the quantity of fat taken up at any one time by the digestive organs is limited to a very small one ; but also, that it either undergoes some important metamorphosis before reach- ing the general mass of the blood, or is very rapidly eliminated from this fluid. 3. The hydrates of carbon form a class of nutritional substances, the elementary com- position of which is still more exactly indi- cated by their name. In other words, they consist of carbon, united with hydrogen and oxygen in those equivalent proportions of these two elements which are necessary for the formation of water (C, 2 H1 2 O, 2). This group is a very large one: and includes, not only the various forms of cane, grape, and milk sugar, but a number of kindred sub- stances;— such as dextrin, gum, cellulose, inosit, and, especially, starch. All of these organic principles, however various their physical properties, have nevertheless the same chemical composition. And many of them are easily converted into grape sugar; either by the excitement of a limited meta- morphosis by an azotized ferment, or by expo- sure to the action of dilute acids. The sugary ingredient of the milk forms about 5i per cent, of its quantity ; and is the only representative of the hydrates of carbon which it contains. The average amount of the substances belonging to this and the preceding group of alimentary constituents will of course vary greatly in the different kinds of food. Speaking generally, however, these two groups may be stated to predominate by turns in the food derived from the two kingdoms of nature. Thus while the hydro- carbons are chiefly derived from the fat of animal food; the hydrates of carbon belong even more exclusively to the starch and sugar of vegetable food. But, in strictness, no such marked difference can actually be made out between the two kinds of food in this re- spect. The milk, the liver,and even the blood of the animal, all contain sugar : while inosit, a substance closely allied to sugar, forms an im- portant constituent of its various muscles. And not only do many plants contain large quan- tities of oily matter stored up in various parts of their tissues, but even the seeds of the ce- realia, which form the best vegetable diet, present an amount of fat ranging from -2 to 2 per cent. The purposes fulfilled by these hydrates of carbon in the animal economy, offer a marked contrast to those subserved by the two pre- vious groups. The protein compounds form what is eminently the basis of the organism; — the plasma from which are developed the blood and the tissues. They are thus Mi- togenetic and hcemagenetic, as the phrase is. The fatty matters of the body not only form a large constituent of the active nervous sub- stance, but are also retained and stored up in the more inert and passive form of adi- pose tissue. While the grape-sugar, into which the various hydrates of carbon are all finally converted, appears never to assume any permanent form in the body, but to be always rapidly eliminated from the blood. In what shape, or after what metamorphoses, it leaves this fluid, is at present uncertain. It is, however, probable, that like the hydro- carbons, these hydrates of carbon are essen-