RESPIRATION. 277 muscular fibre, and that too of the involuntary or unstriped kind. This muscular layer in birds extends from the superior larynx to the com- mencement of the bronchi : these latter are, however, unsupplied by muscular fibres. They are exclusively membranous.* The bronchi in the case of birds, on entering the substance of the lungs, divide and subdivide without decreasing in diameter (a, a, a, fig. 225.) Patches of cartilage appear in the parietes only of the largest order of these tubes. They are distinguishable into two principal classes: those, first, which course superficially along the inferior or sternal surface, and which terminate by wide openings in the thoracic and abdo- minal air-receptacles. This class of tubes is perforated by the inter-celhdar passages only on one side, the other being strengthened by cartilaginous semi-rings. The deep bronchi, resembling cylindrical tubes, traverse the lungs in many directions, and freely commu- nicate with each other, not, however, to form a network, for they run in nearly pa- rallel directions. These tubes are always patulous on dissection, and seem incapable of contraction and dilatation. They are lined internally by a well-marked ciliated epi- thelium. The submucous tissue in the true bronchi is strong and dense, composed chiefly of elastic fibres, none of a muscular character. It constitutes a distinct fibrous layer, like that which lines the trachea of quadrupeds. Those bronchi which do not end in open orifices on the surface of the lung terminate ccecally. These ccecal extremities are perfectly defined by a prominent lining of fibrous and mucous membrane. It was first proved by Mr. Rainey that in the lungs of birds the mucous mem- brane does not extend inwards in the direc- tion of the interior of the lungs beyond the limits of the bronchi. By the words mucous membrane Mr. Rainey desires to indicate that flocculent covering which is so well seen in his injected preparations. By this observer it is maintained that all parts of the lungs of birds beyond the extremes of the bronchi are literally devoid of all epithelial covering whatever, the extreme capillary vessels being included in nothing but their own proper tunics. It has been already shown that Mr. Rainey has mistaken the cessation of the ciliated epithelium at the ends of the bronchi for the termination of all the other elements of this covering. The apparently naked vessels of the air-cells are really in- vested by a hyaline epithelium, coinciding with that which, in the instance of reptiles, will afterv/ards be described. The abrupt termina- tion of the bronchial tubes marks the abrupt commencement of the intercellular passages. These passages contrast remarkably in struc- ture with the bronchi. The membranous walls of these parts are reduced to the ut- most state of thinness; those of the former are furnished with cylindrical epithelium and a dense fibrous coat. But, what is extra- ordinary, the dense mass of vessels which * See art. Aves, by Prof. Owen. bound these passages are not joined together into a continuous partition. Each vessel is separate from and unconnected with those adjacent. " A wall" thus constructed is at every point between the vessels permeable to air. These "intercellular passages" (b,b,l, fig. 225.) arise, with singular uniformity, from the sides of the bronchi, at right angles to the axes of the latter. This is so constant as to become a characteristic point of structure in the bird's lung. The "spaces" between the vessels forming the walls of the intercellular passages lead to no definitely bounded cells or chambers. They lead only to the interval which divides the contiguous bronchi from each other (c,c). This interval is filled densely with the ultimate pulmonary vessels, (b, fig. 225.) It was first determined by Mr. Rainey that these vessels, in the bird's lung, are arranged in a peculiar manner. They do not form plane reticular definitively bounded air- chambers. Each ultimate capillary crosses an air-space of its own. It is thus surrounded by air. The ultimate vessels interlace and interloop in every direction, forming a cubic mass of capillaries permeated evert/where by the air. The apparently naked loops of the ultimate vessels may be seen projecting into the areas of the intercellular passages. No- thing can be conceived more mechanically perfect than this arrangement of the vessels for the exposure of the blood to the opera- tion of the air. The latter is in immediate contact with each individual vessel (b, fig. 22G.) It surrounds the blood-current borne Fig. 226. Slightly oblique section through a bronchial tube. (A fter Rainey.) a, cavity of the tube; b, its lining membrane, containing blood-vessels with large areolae; c, c, perforations in this membrane, where it ceases at the orifices of the lobular passages (d, d); e, e, spaces between contiguous lobules, containing the terminal pulmonary arteries and veins supplying the ca- pillary plexus (/,/) to the meshes of which the air gains access by the lobular passages. by the latter. Every part of the circum- ference of this current, less than of an inch, is under the direct agency of the aerat- t 3