50 OVUM. the eel among the osseous fishes, the oviduct is entirely wanting, and the numerous ova, which are discharged by external dehiscence from the ovary into the cavity of the abdomen, escape from that cavity by an orifice (porus abdominalis) situated on each side close to the anus. 4th. In other osseous fishes, the ovary and oviduct are united, or the ovary forms a saccular organ, in the interior of the wall of which the ovi- capsules are situated, occupying a variable extent of it in different genera ; and the wall of the oviduct, usually very short, is continued from that of the ovary to the outlet from the animal's body. The ova, therefore, which drop by internal dehiscence into the cavity of the ovary, pass directly out by the short ovi- duct in the laying of the spawn. Most osseous fishes are oviparous; but in a few, as the viviparous blenny, the anableps, paecilia, and some siluroids, the ova, on escaping from their capsules into the cavity of the ovary, remain there during the development of the embryo. [n the invertebrate animals there are very many varieties in the form and relations of the productive and conducting parts of the female generative organs. Three principal Fig. 40. Oviduct and ovary in a continuous tube in Insects and Entozoa. A. {From R. Wagner). Upper part of the ovi- duct or ovary of the Acheta campestris. e. {From H. Nelson.') Upper part of the oviduct or ovary of the Ascaris mystax. In both of these figures the germ-cells and germinal vesicles, with their nuclei, are seen surrounded by the granular matter which afterwards collects round them as vitelline or yolk substance. varieties may be distinguished among them 1 st. A form similar to that just now described as generally prevalent among osseous fishes, in which the ovary and oviduct are con- tinuous, but in which the ova, being formed in ovarian capsules, are dropped by dehiscence into the upper part of the oviducts. Such is still the structure in cephalopoda and some other mollusca. 2nd. A form in which the oviduct may be said to be, as in the last, con- tinuous with the ovary, but in which there is no true dehiscence of the ovules from ovarian capsules, as they are formed at once in the internal cavities of the ovary, which directly open into, or are mere prolongations of, the oviducal tubes. Tn this form the oviducts may be considered to stand in the relation of excretory ducts to the ovarian glands. In many of this class the ovaries present very various forms ; in some the continuity of the ovarian and oviducal tubes is very obvious and simple, as in the ne- matoid entozoa, insects, &c. ; while in others, the ovary is more complex and race- mose, and the oviducal tubes comparatively simple. 3rd. That form in which the ovaries are variously disseminated over the body of the animals, and in which there are no true oviducts, but the ova escape on various parts of the internal or external surface of the body.* b. Structure of the ovaries themselves, as related to the production of the ovula. — In mammalia these organs consist of a pair of solid oval flattened bodies, attached by inter- vening fibrous tissue to the posterior surface of the broad ligaments of the uterus, and are covered completely, excepting at this attached part, by peritoneum. Below this serous co- vering there is also a layer of firm fibrous tissue, or tunica albuginea. The internal sub- stance, or parenchyma, or stroma, as it has been called, consists of a firm basis of fibro- cellular texture, of considerable vascularity. The fibres, as well as the blood-vessels of this substance, radiate principally from the at- tached border of the organ towards the oppo- site, or free side, and the rest of the surface. The ovicapsules, or so-called vesicles or fol- licles of De Graaf, in the human ovary, are situated in this stroma; and at or after the period of puberty are found of some size; a variable number, from twelve to thirty, or more, being of from J-g- to i °f an inch, and a few even a little larger. These mem- branous vesicles, filled with fluid, are situated chiefly towards the surface of the free side of the ovary. A larger number of undeveloped capsules, of minute size, also exist in the * SeeVon Baer's Entwickelungsgesch. der Thiere; Owen's Lectures on Invertebrate Animals, 1843, and on Fishes, 1846 ; Rathke (on Development of Fishes, &c), in Geschiclite der ThierweU, Th. 3.; J. Muller (on Sharks), in Mem. of Berlin Acad. 1842; John Davy (on the Torpedo), in Philos. Trans, for 1834; and the works of Von Siebold and Stannius, R. Wagner, Carus, and others on Compar. Anat. See also in this Cyclopaedia, the articles Monotremata, Pisces, Reptilia, and Organs of Ge- neration.