[116] OVUM. ing a single nucleus, in others multiple ma- culae. The formation of the ova may be observed with ease in any of the smaller isopodous Crustacea. According to Leuckart in Oniscus or Armadillo, it is essentially the same as in the Arachnida. The ova consist at first of germinal vesicles, originating below the epi- thelial lining membrane of the ovarian sac. The yolk-substance first appears as a clear deposit round each germinal vesicle ; minute opaque granules are then formed in this sub- stance, and subsequently the larger albuminous and oil globules gradually make their appear- ance. The vitelline membrane, which is very delicate and structureless, is added at a com- paratively late period, in the Oniscus for ex- ample, when the ova are about in diameter. In many of the Crustacea the ova also acquire a chorion or shell membrane of con- siderable strength. On arriving at the lower part of the female passages, the ova of many genera also receive an addition of a peculiar so-called albuminous secretion, which becomes coagulated in water, and thus, when the eggs are laid, serves to glue them together in heaps or to cause them to adhere to the hinder feet, caudal plates, &c, of the parent, where, as is well known, they remain during the whole Fig. 81*. Ephippial ovum of the Daplinidcc. ( From Bawd.) The figure represents a profile view of the female of Moina rectirostris (one of the Daphnidai) show- ing at n. the ephippial ovum in its usual place on the back of the animal. progress of embryonic development. In the Monoculi and some other Entomostraca, there are marsupia or pouches appended to the genital orifices of the parent, in which the ova are retained during the formation of the young. In all the bisexual Crustacea the ova are fecundated while still within the body of the female parent; but the phenomena and period of this process have not yet been acurately determined, partly perhaps in consequence of the peculiar form and motionless condition of the spermatic corpuscles belonging to the greater number of this class. No micropyle has yet been observed in the crustacean ovum. From the observations of several naturalists it is now well ascertained that in the ento- mostracous Crustacea, there commonly occurs a production of young individuals without impregnation, somewhat in the same manner as previously described in the Aphides. " In the Daphnia," says Dr. Baud*, "it is now clearly ascertained that a single copulation is sufficient, not only to fecundate the mother for life, but all her female descendants for several successive generations ;" and it was considered probable by Jurine, that in some species this_might extend to the fifteenth gene- ration. In the Daphnia and other similar Ento- mostraca, the ova are transferred from the ovary into a cavity situated below the shell on the back of the animal, which has been called uterus, perhaps erroneously, and there undergo development. But at certain seasons many of these Entomostraca produce ova of a different kind from those now referred to. To these the name of winter or hybernating ova has been given, as they appear to be adapted, from the strength and impermeability of their external coverings, to resist the in- jurious effects of cold and other atmospheric influences during the winter season. These ova are generally in smaller number than those of the ordinary kind, frequently two, some- times only one; and they are contained and undergo development in a peculiar case, which is formed on the back of the animal below the shell, nearly in the same situation as the matrix for the ordinary ova. This case, which afterwards separates from or is abandoned by the animal, forms a sort of hump or saddle on its back, and has hence been named the ephippium, and the eggs have been called ephippial ova. These ephippial ova, according to Baird,are already fecundated by the original impregnation of the female parent, and do not require, for themselves nor for their progeny for several generations, any renewed or special impregnation. It appears from the observations of Jurine, Strauss, and Baird, that at the time when the ephippial ova are about to be formed, a sudden change takes place in the appearance of the ova, by the deposit of a quantity of dark granu- lar substance. This appears to be transferred * Nat. Hist, of the British Entomostraca, Ray Soc. Public, p. 79.