STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 338 The anatomy of the fresh stomach also suggests other conjectures, which confirm the conclusion which we have deduced from the above sources. We have already noticed that, in the Dog, the columnar epi- thelium forms but a single row, and that it covers all the ridges during the digestive act. Hence the columnar cells can scarcely be stripped off in successive layers at this time. While the close attachment of each of these cells to those around it, together with their uniform appearance in situ, renders it alike im- probable, either that a cell is extruded singly and then bursts, or that each, as it fills, rup- tures and collapses. All those within a tole- rably wide circuit of membrane seem absolutely similar and coeval. In some cases, however, the gastric juice does contain columnar epithelia mingled with the food. In the Dog, this appearance is un- usual, and the number of such shed cells is small. In the Rabbit, their separation is more frequent and extensive. While in the Pig, it often forms a more or less continuous layer, ■which is almost moulded to the ridges of the stomach and the mouths of its tubes*, and leaves the mucous membrane below denuded of this its proper covering. But it remains for future researches to show, whether this ap- pearance is due to mechanical violence; to commencing putrefaction; or to the distur- bances implied in the muscular contraction, the exsudation, and the other incidents of the act of death. And whatever the interest attaching to such a dehiscence of these columnar cells, it can scarcely have any but a very indi- rect relation to the healthy secretory pro- cess that obtains in the living man or dog, in whom the pure gastric juice is completely structureless. This fact, announced by Beau- mont, at a period when microscopy was much less understood than at present, has since been repeatedly confirmed in observations on gastric fistula? which have been instituted by Blondlot, Bidder, Schmidt, Huebennet, and myself. And if great care be taken not to disturb the surface of themucous membrane, we may often verify it in the fresh stomachs of dogs which have been killed immediately after feeding. Here again we may refer to Dr. Beau- mont's numerous observations.f He made use of magnifying glasses, by the aid of which he could distinguish the spheroidal glandular follicles, and the papillae situated in their in- terstices. These papilla?, or villi, he found to be scarcely visible until food was applied to themucous membrane ; when they underwent a kind of erection, and protruded from its surface in the shape of small sharp processes. From these, according to this faithful observer, the gastric juice appears to exsude. Its secre- tion begins by the gradual appearance of innu- merable lucid specks, which are smaller than the mucous follicles. These specks or points * Compare Koellikor, p. 150. t Op. ci'r.pp. 95, 96, 128. et passim. rise through the transparent mucous coat? and seeming to burst, discharge themselves upon the very points of these vascular papillae, as a thin, transparent, colourless, limpid, acid fluid; which collects in small drops, and spreads over the whole gastric surface. So thoroughly persuaded was Dr. Beaumont that the fluid exsuded from the papilla? alone, that he had not the least doubt the excretory ducts of the follicles were enclosed in these villi, and terminated in the lucid specks just alluded to ; although he admits that he could not see any apertures here. Comparing this description with what we now know respecting the anatomy of the mu- cous membrane, it is difficult to avoid coming to the conclusion, that the large and nume- rous capillaries beneath its ridges are in some way intimately connected with the secretion of the gastric juice. And whether this conjecture be right or wrong, the charac- ters of this secretion corroborate the con- clusion already deduced from the anatomy of the dead stomach : — viz. that the gas- tric juice is not composed of a shed epi- thelium. In like manner, the rapidity with which it exsudes seems to contradict any theory of even the most rapid solution of columnar* cells. And since anatomy shows that, until the end of gastric digestion, these cells, if dissolved, are immediately replaced by others, it follows, that to assume such a process of dehiscence would imply a rapidity of growth and organization, such as has never yet been verified in the higher Vertebrate animals. The latter quantitative objection may be bet- ter carried out in detail. In Schmidt's expe- riments, a dog secreted ^Q-th of its weight of comparatively pure gastric juice in one hour. Transferring such an estimate to an average man of 140ll>s. weight, it would follow that the human stomach, the whole mucous membrane of which scarcely weighs 4oz., can com- pletely reconstruct its entire cell growth, — which is, at most, only half of this weight, — about sixty times in a single hour ! As regards the source of the acid, the above statementby Dr.Beaumont is supported by an interesting obervation of Bernard f ; who finds that it is only the surface of the mucous membrane which exhibits an acid reaction, either in the digesting or fasting state. This statement I can confirm : al- * When freed from their attachment, these co- lumnar cells often undergo what seems to be a rapid solution in (lie surrounding fluid under the mieroscope. The first stage of this exhibits them as v<ry delicate husks, which appear to have emptied themselves after losing the lid of cell-wall at their larger extremities. Their sides now often collapse: and increasing transparency soon renders them invi- sible. This process|occurs so quickly as to resemble a'digestive solution. But it is difficult to determine how far it is effected by the contents of the cell itself, apart from the surrounding fluid. A layer of mucus generally ocenpies the neighbourhood of any cut surface of gastric mucous membrane, an d ap- pears also to consist of the dissolved contents of cells. j Gazette Me"dicale, Mars 1C. 1844.