599 FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Normal Anatomy). termed the middle wing. The Fallopian greater freedom of movement is permitted, tube occupies the entire upper border of this The greatest breadth of the mesentery is wing, and receives from it a complete perito- found at a distance of two thirds of its neal investment, except along the lower bor- length from the uterine extremity, and here der or line of junction of the two surfaces of it measures 1J". From this point a slight membrane composing it, at which line the ves- narrowing occurs, and the membrane ter- sels and nerves enter. Thus the tube resembles initiates in an abrupt margin \\" in length, an intestine in the mode of its investment, which extends from the lower border of the but with this difference, that the peritoneal mouth of the tube to the bulbous extremity coat is more loosely applied, especially in of the ovary. young subjects ; where the convolutions of This border, which is thickened by the the tube are more distinctly marked, and lie addition of a layer of mucous membrane de- free within the sheath, which does not follow rived from the mouth of the Fallopian tube, their windings (fig. 418.).* constitutes the tubo-ovarian ligament (fig. The tubal mesentery ( fig. 404./) is tri- 404. d). angular, or somewhat falciform in shape. Its Separate parts and divisions. — The full ex- narrow pointed end is directed towards the tent of the Fallopian tube cannot be ascer- uterus, where the tube has scarcely any ca- tained until the entire canal, in its interior, pacity for independent motion ; but as the has been laid open. The tube which, ex- depth of the mesentery increases outwardly ternally viewed, appears to spring from the Fig: 40.5. Bight Fallopian tube laid open. From an adult who had not home children. {After Richard.) a, funnel-shaped canal leading from the uterus to h, utevine portion of the tuhe; c, point at which the large plica? commence ; </, infundibulum covered by plicae, continuous with those lining'the canal; e, tubo- ovanan ligament and fringes; /, ovary ; a, round ligament. superior angle of the uterus, is thus seen to commence by a small orifice, ostium uterinum, upon the inner surface of the uterus. This orifice conducts to a narrow canal (figs. 405. b and 406.) which, after traversing the walls of the organ, and constituting the pars uterina, expands into a gradually widening tube (fig. 405. r), whose form nearly cor- responds with the external configuration of the part. Towards the extremity of this canal, a sudden contraction occurs, consti- tuting the external orifice of the tube, ostium abdominale (fig. 404. c). But this does not form the termination of the oviduct, for the latter immediately widens into the trumpet- like orifice (infundibulum), whose margin split up into numerous fringed processes, * For a further account of the reflections of peritoneum, which enclose the uterine appendages see "Ligaments of the Uterus," in this article. (fimbria;), (Jig. 404. a a) give to that part the torn and jagged appearance suggestive of the idea that it has been bitten or torn, as expressed in the name, morsus diabo/i, applied by ancient writers to this part. Each of these parts exhibit peculiarities of struc- ture, requiri g a special description. Internal, or uterine orifice, ostium uterinum. — This orifice, which ought to be regarded as marking the termination rather than the commencement of the tube, is found at the extremity of a short, funnel-shaped conduit, (fig. 405. «) which leads from the general cavity of the uterus into the upper and outer angle on either side of that organ. Here, while there is no abrupt line of demarcation to indicate the point of commencement of the canal, the characteristic structure of the uterine mucous membrane gradually ceases. The peculiar arrangement of its capillan- vesscls and the orifices of the uterine glands,