533 RUMINANTIA. gle example will illustrate the points most deserving of attention. The true molar tooth of the permanent series has a quadrilateral form, its outer and inner lateral surfaces being bounded by mar- gins more or less convoluted. The crown in the young state presents four elevated cusps, which, by subsequent attrition, disappear. The ground surface, thus flattened, is marked in the centre by double crescent-shaped ridges of enamel, so disposed as to present, along with the central mass of dentine and external crust of cementwm, alternate layers of hardened tissue, having different degrees of density. By such an arrangement it conse- quently follows that the enamel being the least affected by trituration, remains some- what above the level of the other dental sub- stances,—a condition highly favourable for the due performance of mastication, and one re- sulting in all cases from the vertical folding of the original formative capsule. The upper molars of certain individuals present an ac- cessory island-shaped portion of enamel at the internal* border, by which the extent of grinding surface becomes enlarged. This additional facet only makes its appearance in a tooth which has been employed for some time, as it depends upon the wearing down of a columnar fold which is developed at the side between the lobes, and which does not extend so high up as the summit of the crown in the unworn tooth ; it is well seen in the Ox and Deer (p, fig. 356.) Fig. 356. Molar tooth of the Deer. (From Owen's " Odontography.") Tongue. — The lingual organ undergoes certain modifications, in accordance with the habits and kind of aliment on which the ru- minant subsists. These peculiarities do not involve any material departure from the type of structure invariably found in other mam- mifers ; on the contrary, the muscular ele- ments and their relations to surrounding parts remain nearly the same. The deviations of which we have to speak principally refer therefore, to the form of the organ and its epidermal covering. In Ruminantia, more than in almost any other order, the tongue is specially designed to fulfil the offices of pre- hension as well as deglutition, and it neces- sarily follows that the several portions of the machine destined to carry out such com- plicated functions, exhibit a corresponding complexity of development. Those regions, arbitrarily denominated by the anthropotomist the root, body, and tip, acquire great signifi- cance in this group of animals, being mor- phologically indicated on the dorsal aspect of the organ ; and they not only manifest a structural distinctiveness, but the functions over which they preside subserve different purposes. The anterior moiety is employed in collecting, and perhaps in some measure ascertaining the nature of the food ; the second aids in adjusting and preparing the morsel, but is more particularly concerned in thrusting the bolus backward into the oeso- phageal cavity ; while the third circumscribes and regulates the movements of the organ in its entirety, acting from the point cFappui of the hyoid bone (Zaglas). The surface of the tongue is armed with forms of papillae similar to those of Man and other mammalia. Two kinds, namely, the simple filiform and fungiform, are conspicuous and very numerous on the dorsal aspect of the elongated prehensile portion in front, and two other varieties — the conical and circum- vullate — occupy the dorsum towards the root, leaving the inter-molar region com- paratively free. Of those papilla? at the fore part, the simple filiform arc curved back- ing. 357. Torgue of the Giraffe. (From Owen.) M M 3