SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 431 that the increase in point of thickness of the nerves leaving a ganglion over those which pass to it is clue, not to the presence of a greater number of the fibres of Remak, as might be expected were these true nerve- fibres arising from the ganglionic corpuscles, but to an increased number of fine tubular fibres. Kolliker* likewise agrees with the authors already mentioned in the view that the fibres of Remak are not to be regarded as true nerve- fibres, but rather as enveloping structures or sheaths to the tubular fibres. He believes, with Valentin, that they are not connected with the ganglionic corpuscle itself, but with its sheath, and are thence continued along such of the tubular fibres as arise from the corpuscles, forming for them a protecting enve- lope or sheath. The capsules of the ganglionic corpuscles are, according to Kolliker, a species of fibrous tissue; and so also the fibres of Remak, which are continuous with them, must be regarded as partaking of the same nature. Again, whilst, on the one hand, these fibres are very abundant in the neighbourhood of the ganglia, in the finer branches, on the other hand, they are much fewer in number, and in the ultimate distribution of the nerve do not exist at all. Similar structures have also been observed by him accompanying the very fine branches of some of the spinal nerves ; such, for example, as those going to the skin, while, at the same time, they are not to be found in the main or larger branches of the same. The chief grounds, then, on which it is held that the fibres of Remak are to be re- garded as enveloping structures, and not as true nerve-fibres, are, 1. the anatomical dif- ferences between these and the true or tu- bular nerve fibre; 2. their resemblance to certain varieties of white fibrous tissue ; 3. their connection with the sheaths of the ganglionic corpuscles, and not with these bodies themselves; 4. their absence in the final distribution of the nerve; 5. the in- crease in the thickness of the nerves leaving a ganglion being due, not to an increased number of fibres of Remak, but of fine tubular fibres. On the other hand, it has been stated that the anatomical difference between the tubular fibres and the fibres of Remak is not a suf- ficient ground for believing that the latter are destitute of the properties of nerve-fibres. All the nerve-tubes in the embryo, even after it is considerably advanced in development, present much the same character as these fibres, and even after birth nuclei may be occasionally found existing in them. Again, as noticed by Todd and Eowman, the nerve- fibres in the olfactory nerve resemble the fibres of Remak in containing nuclei, and also in the want of double contour, as well as in their soft homogeneous appearance. When a nerve is divided, and a portion of it removed, * Mikroskopische Anatomie oder Gewebelehre ties Menschen, von A. Kolliker; Leipzig-, 1800; zweiter bind, p. 530. the structure by which its continuity is re- stored presents much the same appearance as the fibres of Remak, and this for some time after the part supplied by the nerves has, to a certain extent, regained its functions, showing that impressions may travel along structures not differing from the fibres in question. In reply to the second objection, it is stated that the difference between the fibres of Remak and white fibrous tissue is such as to preclude the notion of the one being a mere variety of the other. In the third place, it is said that it is by no means determined that the fibres of Remak are connected merely with the capsules of the ganglionic corpuscle, and, supposing they were so, that these also may be possessed of the properties of nerve-tissue. As regards the relation between the gan- glionic corpuscles and the fibres of Remak, the tubular nerve-fibres which leave the ganglia may not unfrequently be observed to have structures running along each side, which present the same characters as the fibres of Remak ; sometimes only a single row, at other times a double row, of nuclei are placed along each side of the tubular fibre, indicating one or two fibres of Remak. These, on being a. Ganglion corpuscles from one of the spinal ganglia in the Mouse, a, corpuscle continuous with a nerve-tube, b. (Mag. 250 diam.) b. Ditto from the Gasserian ganglon of the Cat, a, capsule of corpuscle and nerve-tube ; b, cell- membrane of ganglion-corpuscle. c. Cell freed from capsule. traced inwards to the ganglionic corpuscle, are found to be distinctly continuous with the capsules of these bodies. When the ganglionic corpuscles are seen separately from one another it is found that these structures are connected only with such of the corpuscles as are still included in their capsules, those which are isolated from their capsules never having any such attached to them (see a, b, and <:._/?£•. 284.) In their general aspect, as well as in their relation towards reagents, the fibres of Remak correspond with the capsules of the corpuscles ; moreover Kolliker has seen and distinctly figures the capsules of these bodies as directly continuous with the fibres of Remak. As regards their dissimilarity to white fibrous tissue, there can be little doubt that when