629 UTERUS — (Normal Anatomy). s s 3 mencing sometimes at a distance of 1 \"'—2>" above the margin of the uterine lip and ex- tending upwards either centrally or to one side of the median line, and reaching as far as the internal os, it terminates here in a bulbous expansion, or branches out into numerous small ramifications. From either side of this median perpendicular fold are given oft' lateral plica?, varying in number, but being usually not less than 6—9. These soon bifurcate once or twice, so that the number of folds will vary considerably, according as they are counted immediately at, or at some distance from, their line of junction in the central raphe. The uppermost pair of lateral plicae, or those next to the raphe, often exhibit the same bulbous extremity; and these together fill the upper or narrowest portion of the cer- vical canal. Lower down, where the canal be- comes wider, the lateral plicae spread out on either side of the central raphe, the upper ones in an oblique, the middle and lower ones in a more horizontal direction. These soon bifurcate, and form a series of oblique, hori- zontal, or arched laminae, whose arrangement varies much according to the fulness of the folds, the depth of the furrows between them, and the distance by which the laminae are se- parated. If the 'latter are prominent and very closely set, their margins may overlie each other, like the branchial laminae of a fish, so that no intermediate furrows are perceptible; or the folds, not being very prominent, may merely lie in apposition, leaving no visibie in- terspace until they are drawn asunder ; but when the plicae are less full anil prominent a furrow is perceptible between each. These furrows of necessity take the same direction as the plicae by which they are bounded. In another common form which the plicae assume, the general lines of folds and interme- diate furrows take a more vertical direction, so that sometimes as many as six or eight of the more central laminae may be traced run- ning down side by side to the very margin of the cervical lips (fig. 424.). Here often the two most central folds appear to run up from one end to the other of the cervical canal ; but still commonly one of these is more fully developed than the rest ; its upper bulbous extremity occupying the position in the narrow portion of the cervical canal, al- ready described, while its lateral divisions being more numerous than those of the plicae next adjoining, it takes the office of a raphe, though its position may be, as it often is, more or less eccentric. On either side of this principal fold the lateral plicae arrange themselves, inclining more outwardly in proportion as they occupy a still lower place in the cervix. But in these cases the curves of the lateral plicae are often very abrupt — the laminae rising obliquely up- wards, and then making a sudden downward bend like the ends of the leaves of a lily. This arrangement of the plica? I think I have more often observed upon the posterior wall of the cervix, where the laminae are usually thicker and bolder than upon the anterior wall, upon which the arrangement first de- scribed appears more commonly to prevail. But so various are the forms which the prin- cipal folds of the mucous lining of the cervix assume, that it is not possible to fix upon any one instance whose description, however mi- nute and accurate, will serve as a strict ex- ample of the rest. The more perpendicular the arrangement of the plicae, the nearer is the approach to that form which is most commonly found in the terminal part, or neck of the uterus, in the mammalia generally, where the folds al- most invariably take the direction of the long axis of the canal, reminding us of the ar- rangement of the plicae in the Fallopian tube already described. After repeated pregnancies these plicae become much thickened and the folds more prominent, while their extremities exhibit a swollen and bulbous appearance resembling leaflets attached to the branch of a tree. Hence, apparently, the origin of the old term arbor vita?, by which this structure was com- monly designated; while to the more closely arranged plicae, springing from a central shaft or raphe, the term penniform ruga? is more strictly applicable ; and to those cases in which several parallel folds, after ascending ob- liquely, form a series of lateral arches, or suddenly bend over and then downwards, the title of plica? palmnta?, or as some employ it, palmcc plicates, seems more appropriate. Thus upon both walls of the uterine cervix the mucous membrane, being of greater extent than the surfaces which it lines, is gathered Fig. 432. Portion of cervix uteri. Enlarged i) diameters. (After Tyler Smith, anil Hassall.)* * This figure is from a valuable Memoir on the Pathology and Treatment of Leucorrheea, in vol. xxxv. of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, 1852; where will be found also a description, with illustrations, of several of the natural and abnormal forms and conditions of the cervix.