OVUM. 12 solid substance of organs or through mem- branes ; and from the various stages of ad- vancement of others already referred to, seen in different parts of the same animal, little doubt can prevail that they must have done the same : but the aperture through which they make their way, besides being in most instances very minute, seems to close very rapidly and completely after them. So that the occurrence of entozoa in entirely isolated cavities — such as the aqueous cham- ber of the eye, or in the parenchyma of solid organs, — does not now present to our minds any valid objection to the view that in all in- stances they are introduced from without; and it will be apparent, from the same con- siderations, that even the occurrence of en- tozoa in the foetus, of which there are un- doubted instances, and to which great import- ance has been attached as an argument in favour of their spontaneous origin, may be explained on the supposition of their ova, or young, passing from the maternal parent, through the blood-vessels of the umbilical cord, as is known to happen with various poisons. The whole history, then, of this remarkable class of animals, as it is now known, tends to support the general conclusion that they are all capable in their complete state of sexual reproduction, and that they gain the various sites of their parasitic habitations by intro- duction of their ova, or embryoes, or of more advanced stages of their growth from without, either directly into the open cavities, or more indirectly, by piercing the coats of vessels, membranes, &c, into the close cavities and the parenchyma of solid organs.* A candid review of the whole evidence on this question leads to the inevitable conclusion, that, though all the difficulties or doubts which surround it are by no means completely removed, the hypothesis of primary or spontaneous generation receives little or no direct support from the accurate observation of the mode of origin of those animals which alone were supposed to afford proofs of such a kind of production ; and that this view must, therefore, on the strongest grounds of analogy, be in the meantime aban- doned, for that which attributes the origin and reproduction of all organised beings to an undeviating connection through ova or germs, seeds or spores, between new individuals and others of identical species which have pre- viously existed. And if the present some- * As to the bearing of a knowledge of the habits &c. of the Entozoa upon the question of their spon- taneous origin, consult the able essay by Eschricht ; " Inquiries concerning the Origin of Intestinal Worms &c." in Edin. New Phil. Journ. vol. xxxi. p. 314. 1841, the article on Parasites by V. Siebold, in R. Wagner's Handwort. der Physiol.; E. Blanc-hard's Researches on the Structure &c. of Intestinal Worms, in Ann. d. Sc. Nat. 1848 and 1849, parti- cularly vol. vii. p. 121. Dujardin's systematic work, Hist. Nat. des Helminthes, 1845. And in connec- tion with this and the whole subject of spontaneous generation, the Systematic Treatises on Physiology of Burdach, J. Miiller, Valentin, and Longet. what imperfect state of knowledge does not permit us to affirm this absolutely, as the result of direct observation, the exceptions are so few and unimportant, that they may be disregarded in the overwhelming evidence of a positive character in favour of the opinion, derived from analogy, that every organic being, if not produced in actual union with another, derives its origin from a germ or some such connecting part that has proceeded from a being of the same kind. If this be the present state of the argument in respect to the hypothesis of the first origin of organic beings, it need scarcely be added that the opinion which has attributed the pro- duction of various animals to conversion or gradual transmutation out of other species or genera, has still less of real to be adduced in its support. In the long series of ages in which authentic observations have been made on animals, no such examples have been ascertained, and there are no established facts which give any substantial grounds for believing that in the natural or wild state of animals there is any departure from that un- deviating succession of specific resemblance between parent and offspring, which seems to form one of the most constant of the laws of organic nature with which we are ac- quainted. 3rd. Production of dissimilar individuals among sexual animals by a non-sexual j>rocess : so-called Alternate Generations. From the foregoing general views it ap- pears that in all Vertebrated Animals, and in by far the greater number of Invertebrated animals, the process of permanent reproduc- tion consists in the development of the new being from the blastodermic mass formed by a peculiar process of cytogenesis in the fecundated ovum. But, as has already been shortly stated, there are some varieties among them in regard to the degree of directness with which the product of development from the ovum arrives at that state of maturity, or sexual completeness, in which it is capable of renewing the act of sexual generation. These varieties may be classed as follows:—1st. The product of the ovum, being single, attains by a gradual process of development, when it leaves the ovum at birth, to nearly the same form and structure as its parents : this is generally called Jimbryological Development. 2nd. The product of the ovum, being single, is born or leaves the egg at an early period, and while comparatively imperfect, or, as it is called, in a larva state, and by one or more successive changes of development of a marked kind, afterwards reaches the specific or ty- pical form : these changes are usually called Metamorphoses. 3rd. The product of deve- lopment from the ovum does not itself become a complete animal, but gives rise, by a peculiar mode of generation of a non-sexual character, and therefore different from that by which fecundated ova are formed, to a new body, or to successive progenies of new bodies, one or more of which ultimately attains to the specific resemblance of the sexual parents by which