SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 435 F F 2 characteristic specimens of either are examined the difference is sufficiently marked ; yet in Fig. 285. From a branch of the coccygeal nerve inside the dura mater of Man. {Mag. 350 diam.) A fter Kolliker. some parts of the branches of the sympathetic in the higher animals it is difficult to limit the two species of tissue, and between the most characteristic of the fibres and many em- bryonic tissues the most marked resemblance exists. In the ultimate distribution of tbe sympathetic there seem to be, as Kolliker observes, none but fine tubular fibres present. If, then, the fibres of Remak be kept out of consideration, as not being possessed of the properties of nerve-fibres, are there any fibres in the sympathetic which can be regarded as differing in their anatomical constitution from those occurring in the nerves belonging to the cerebro-spinal system? In 1842 Bidder and Volkmann described particularly the distinc- tion in point of structure between the tubular fibres, which have been mentioned as being present in the sympathetic. They measured the tubular fibres, and found that while some of them had a diameter of 0-00046 to 0-00068 of an inch, others measured only 0-00012 to 0-00022; and between the two sizes they observed no fibres of intermediate breadth. They also measured the branches which enter and those which leave the ganglia in the frog. The latter were found to exceed the former in point of thickness, which could only be at- tributed to tbe addition of structures arising in the ganglia, and on examination they ob- served that the increase in thickness of the one over the other was due to the presence of a greater number of tubular nerve-fibres belonging to the finer variety ; and hence it was concluded that these are the peculiar organic or sympathetic fibre. The coarser variety they regarded as arising in the cerebro- spinal centres, while the fibres belonging to the finer variety always, according to them, take their origin in the ganglionic system. They describe these fibres as being about half the diameter of those belonging to the cerebro- spinal nerves ; they are further distinguished by their paleness ; the absence, under all cir- cumstances, of the double contour, and the small quantity of curdlike contents which they present even when examined some time after death, and by their yellowish-gray colour when in bundles. The distinctions between the broad and fine tubular fibres, as given by Volkmann and Bidder, were denied by Valen- tin, who stated that the fibres of these au- thors were merely fibres of Remak. Reichert, on the other hand, confirmed the observations of Bidder and Volkmann as to the difference in point of size and structure between the cerebro-spinal nerve-fibres and the sympathetic or organic fibres. The description which is given by Remak of the gelatinous fibre does not, as Volkmann and Bidder maintain, apply to the fibres which they have described : they are much finer, ten times' finer, than the cerebro-spinal fibres, whereas the fibres of Bidder and Volkmann are generally only a half narrower than these fibres. The relations of the two structures towards reagents as well as their general characters are also very dif- ferent. Kolliker agrees with Bidder anil Volkmann that there are nerve fibres in the sympathetic which are not derived from the cerebro-spinal system, but arise from the ganglionic cor- puscles ; he farther confirms the observation of these authors, that all the fibres which arise in the sympathetic belong to the finer variety of tubular fibres, and that they present the characters which they were described by Bidder and Volkmann as possessing ; he de- nies, however, that they are peculiar to the sympathetic system. Fine fibres agreeing with these in structure arise, according to him, in the cerebro-spinal system, as well as in the sympathetic. Again, the diameter of the coarser and finer varieties of the tubular nerve fibres is by no means so strictly limited as Bidder and Volkmann believed, there being transitions from the finer to the broader or coarser variety. Besides occurring in the sym- pathetic, they are likewise present in the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, especially in the latter; and in the brain and spinal cord they exist in large num- bers. Another objection to the views of Bidder and Volkmann as to the peculiar na- ture of these fibres is derived from the fact that it is by no means uncommon for the broader tubular fibres to divide into finer fibres during their course to the periphery, becoming narrower and narrower, and at the same time losing their distinct double contour; and hence in their ultimate distribution they consist almost entirely of fine fibres, which cannot be distinguished from those described by Bidder and Volkmann as constituting the peculiar fibres of the sympathetic system. Volkmann himself now admits that the dis- tinction between the broad or animal nerve- fibre and the fine or organic is by no means always strictly defined, and also that the broad tubular or animal fibres, in their peri- pherical distribution, assume the characters of the others. It would appear, then, as Kol- liker maintains, that there is no absolute dis- tinction between the fibres of the sympathetic and those belonging to the cerebro-spinal system ; the difference is merely one of rela- tion and degree : while the nerves of the latter system consist chiefly of broad tubular fibres, the sympathetic is chiefly composed of fine ones.