TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 477 embryonic state of all animals, and in the adult condition of many of the lower forms, the in- tegument, constituted as above defined, forms a continuous investment over the surface of the body without any important processes or irregularities. Such is the case in many of the Worms, Polypes, and lower Mollusca. From such simple forms of integument as these the most rudimentary kinds of appendages or tegumentary organs are produced in one of two ways,— either the outer portion of the ecderon is thickened, and as a spine or as a plate projects beyond the common surface — e. g. cells of Hydroid and Polyzoic Polypes ; or the whole integument is developed into a spine-like or plate-shaped process, as in the so-called " bracts " of the Diphydae, and in all the spines, hairs, and scales of the Insecta, Crustacea, and Arachnida. The shells and plates of Mollusca and Arti- culata belong principally to the former division, being simple laminated thickenings of theouter portion of the ecderon. In the Vertebrata the integument but rarely possesses appen- dages of so simple a nature. Simple plates of this kind, however, coat the surface of the beaver's tail, in which animal, according to Heusinger, " the epidermis is divided by a great number of clefts into hexagonal por- tions 4 lines long, whose whole edges ad- here to the cutis. They usually consist of a couple of superimposed laminae identical in structure with the rest of the epidermis " (I. c. p. 168.). The polygonal horny plates of the Chelonia are of the same nature. The scales on the under surface of the tail of the rat and other rodents, and on the tarsi of birds, are similarly constituted; but here one edge is thrown up, and we have a transition to the scales of the Pangolin, — to those of Ophidia and Sauria,— and to the nails, claws, hoofs, and hollow horns of Mammals, and the horny sheaths of the beak of Birds, all of which are constructed on essentially the same plan, being diverticula of the whole integument, the outer layer of whose ecderon has undergone horny metamorphosis. Among these the nails, horns, and hoofs of mammalia present certain complexities of arrangement which entitle them to particular notice. Nails are flattened horny plates developed from the upper surface of the phalangeal in- tegument only ; they are free at their distal extremities, but laterally and at their proximal ends they are enclosed within raised ridges of the whole integuments, the nail walls. The enderon beneath them in the space which is called the " bed of the nail" is raised into parallel longitudinal ridges or laminae, which fit into corresponding depressions of the under surface of the ecderon. Clmvs are nails which embrace a larger portion of the phalanx, being developed, not merely from its upper surface, but also from its extremity, and extending far round on its sides. In the dog and cat {fig.305. a) the bed of the claw is laminated as in man, but pre- sents no papilla; (Gurlt), and a bony plate extends from the last phalanx into the pos- terior fold of the nail. The transition from the claw to the hoof is readily understood if we suppose the terminal portion of the former to be blunt and cylindri- cal, instead of pointed and conical (fig. 305.). The elephant and rhinoceros do in fact afford an actual passage from the nail to the hoof, inasmuch as their very flat nails are con- tinuous at their edges with the solid horny covering of the sole (Heusinger). The solipede hoof has been described in the article Solipedia; we need therefore only remark here that the luall corresponds with the nail in man, and may, by maceration, be separated from the sole and frog, which are developed from the termination and pos- terior surface of the phalanx. The ridge or " bourrelet" at the upper margin of the wall an- swers to the posterior nail-wall, and, as in the nail, the horny upper layerof the "epidermis " is continued on to the hoof from it. The struc- ture of the bed of the hoof differs in its different parts. That portion which corresponds with the sole and frog merely presents papilla?, which fit into depressions of the horny ecde- ron ; that which corresponds with the wall is produced into lamellae like those of the bed of the nail, so that the deep surface of the wall is laminated. In addition, however, long papillae extend from the " bourrelet" through the superficial portion of the wall, so that, on section, it presents a superficial series of canals, around which the horny matter is disposed in concentric layers. Fig. 305. A. Section of the foot in a kitten, b. In a foetal lamb. Each half of the hoof of a ruminant (fig. 305. b), or of the pig, corresponds in general struc- ture with the entire hoof of a solipede, except