STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 407 D D 4 axis of the spiral and dilated segment of tube around it. The congestion and strangulation of the vessels of the peritoneal fold, as well as of those of the invaginated bowel itself, soon cause a swelling, that fixes the innermost segment firmly in its abnormal position. An exsudation of serum and I\ mph next increases its size, at the same time that it renders these changes of situation permanent. The dila- tation of the preceding part of the canal, by the fluids passed into it from above, often further exaggerates the above changes. The sloughing which from all these causes finally ensues, sometimes has the effect of setting free the intus-suscepted segment in the cavity of the canal. Hence, if the patient survive until this separation occurs, the dis- charge of this segment from the bowels may terminate all the symptoms of obstruction ; and leave the bowel at the site of the intus- susception occupied by a ring of lymph, which gradually contracts into a firm cicatrix of fibrous tissue. From the preceding changes in the size, shape, and situation of the digestive canal, we pass on to consider the abnormal conditions of its texture. Softening is the first of these conditions which claims our notice. In rare instances, this change engages the whole of the digestive canal, to which it im- parts a semi-transparent gelatinous appear- ance, and a pulpy diffluent consistence. In this general softening, the walls of the canal are usually diminished, scarcely ever in- creased in thickness. Their colour is gene- rally pale enough to warrant us in regarding them as in a state of anaemia. But they sometimes exhibit those various shades of discoloration which are present in the more localized forms of softening. The latter are usually found in the sto- mach, where they especially occupy the car- diac pouch. But they are sometimes seen in the large intestine :—indeed, in most sub- jects, the mucous membrane of this part of the canal has a somewhat softer consistence than that of the small intestine. It is in the stomach, in which the process of softening occurs with most frequency and intensity, that we may best notice the details of this change, and the degrees in which it generally engages the different tissues of the coats of the canal. Of these the mucous membrane is that which always seems to suffer first and most ; in which the process appears to commence, and to which it is often limited. At first, the only noticeable change is a diminution of its consistence: a change which either occupies isolated patches of its surface*, or is spread over a considerable extent of the cardiac sac, rendering it liable to break down on the application of the slightest pressure. Hence if a portion be taken between the blades of the forceps, it will come away between them on exercising a very moderate traction. The mucous mem- * These are sometimes the projecting summits of the ridges formed by its mucous folds. brane next becomes absolutely broken down ; so as to form a granular pulp. This pulp covers the subjacent tissues with a layer of variable depth ; the deficiency of which, here and there, lays bare the submucous areolar tissue. The process may next engage this and the muscular textures ; either imparting to the latter a paler, softer, and thinner ap- pearance than natural ; or implicating the whole thickness of the gastric parietes, and giving them a gelatinous appearance. A con- siderable thinning of these parietes almost always accompanies this change, and is some- times so great as to cause the rupture of the organ, and the effusion of its contents. Fi- nally, in extreme cases, the contiguous tissues of the belly, and especially the muscular sub- stance of the diaphragm, become involved in an extension of this process from the sto- mach. The colour associated with this loss of consistence is very variable. In some cases, there is a complete anaemia of the gastric coats; in others, this term is rendered some- what less applicable by the presence of one or two large veins distended with blood. In other instances, we find the softened part of the stomach coloured a variable shade of brown, red, or even black; according to the quantity of blood it presents, and the degree in which its hue has been altered by the gas- tric juice. Finally, in many cases the organ offers no appreciable contrast in this respect with its normal state. It is probable that these softened states of the digestive canal are capable of being produced by very different causes. Even after setting aside all those instances in which the softening has been preceded by symptoms of inflammatory action during life ; and all those in which it has been due to the inges- tion of poisons which exert a direct chemical action of this kind ; we may trace the process to three causes, which often coincide in its production, and the exact share of which it is therefore often difficult to estimate in any particular specimen. These causes are, pu- trefaction, digestion, and altered nutrition. The amount of influence which has been exerted by putrefaction, might seem very easy to determine. But we cannot alwa3'S esti- mate it by the date which has elapsed since death, or the temperature to which the body has been exposed ; since its access and rapi- dity vary remarkably according to the state of the organism, and the nature of the fatal dis- ease. The capacity possessed by the secretion of the stomach for digesting its coats after death is one which will obviously depend on the nature and amount of this fluid present: and will, other things being equal, attain its maximum in the case of the sudden death of a healthy person, soon after the ingestion of food. The softened state of intestines, which is often found in diarrhoea, fever, and other disorders, — as well as the peculiar softening* * The characters of this softening appear to in-