UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 704 topical condition, which may be viewed as the local expression of the former. In a large number of instances, however, the affection of distant parts ma}' be considered as the re- sult of a secondary blood infection, i. e. of a poisoning of the blood by the introduction of some products from the original nidus of dis- ease, and particularly of venous pus and sanies in metrophlebitis* The occurrences which immediately ensue upon the act of parturition, offer a ready ex- planation of the mode in which these and other extraneous matters may gain access to the general circulating fluid. For by the se- paration and removal of the placenta, together with a large portion of the decidua, the con- tents of the uterine cavity, consisting of va- rious puerperal products now exposed to the direct influence of the atmosphere, are brought into immediate relation with the patent ori- fice of the uterine veins terminating upon the placental space. Through these a copious reception of the exudated products of inflam- mation or of septic matters resulting from decomposition within the uterus, or of in- fecting matter derived from sources still more external, may readily take place, and so pro- duce either the primary or secondary dys- crases of the blood just noticed. It is also to be observed that independent of external sources of a blood dyscrasis, the latter may be occasioned by an accumula- tion of effete material, resulting from the arrest of those eliminative processes which constitute so large and important a part of the act of involution, and are always more or less impeded during puerperal inflammation ; or commonly by a reflux of pus and sanies formed in the larger venous channels in the case of metrophlebitis already mentioned ; while some of the worst forms of sepsis of the blood are those which result from deep pros- tration of the nervous system, occasioned by exhausting forms of parturition. The more important associated morbid pro- cesses occurring in connection with puerperal inflammation of the uterus, which it may be necessary here to notice, consist in exuda- tions into the larger serous sacs and synovial bursa?, upon the mucous membranes, and in the parenchyma of various parts and organs ; and of deposits within the larger vessels, chiefly the veins leading from the uterus, or in the capillaries of organs often far removed from the original seat of inflammation. The effusions upon the peritoneum and pleura, and less frequently upon the pericar- dium, consist of fibrinous and croupous ex- udations, combined often with copious effu- sions of serous, purulent, or sero-purulent fluids, the latter being, perhaps, often the result of a breaking down or liquefaction of the croupous fibrine, and its conversion into a pus-like fluid. Similar collections are found in the synovial membranes of the larger joints, especially of the knee, shoulder, and hip. While upon the mucous surfaces, particularly * Bokitansky, op. cit. vol. ii. of the intestines, which are later affected than the serous structures, a less sthenic form of exudation is usually found, the effusion con- sisting here of serous, gelatinous, or purulent exudations (the former contributing largely to the production of puerperal diarrhoea), and of infiltrations into the mucous and sub- mucous areolar tissues. These various exudative processes, whose preference for particular tissues is probably in part determined by textural peculiarities, must be considered as efforts to eliminate the dyscrasial materials from the general blood mass, and they will continue until the ex- haustion of the crasis is complete. The qualitative variations observable in the products bear exact relation to the nature of the previous infection, and of the dyscrasis arising out of it. The character and mode also of the first effusions may materially affect those which occur at a later period ; for when the plastic products have been very abundantly and rapidly formed, and the defi- brination of the blood consequently very con- siderable, the extensive discharge of the fibri- nous element leaves the blood so attenuated, that the serous portion may then speedily transude through the walls of the capillary vessels, and in this way are produced those enormous collections of serous or sero-puru- lent fluids which sometimes rapidly form in the advanced stages of puerperal inflamma- tions, occasionally with but slight evidences during life of their occurrence. Of equal or greater interest are those associated pathological phenomena which are connected with secondary phlebitis, having its seat either in the larger veins, or in the capillary system of vessels. The veins nearest to the uterus are commonly first involved ; and from this point the inflammatory action may spread either by direct or interrupted continuity to more distant vessels, following, however, the reverse order of the circulation ; or it affects vessels remote from the original seat of inflammation, as in the capillary con- gestions, and inflammations of distant parts producing the lobular infarctions, and in more advanced inflammatory stages, the so-called metastatic abscesses and sloughs of various organs and tissues. The obstruction to the circulation arising in these cases from coagu- lation of fibrine within the vessels, and viewed by some pathologists as the cause, and by others as an effect only of inflammation, may be perhaps regarded as a provision for limiting the spread of the infecting fluids, and pre- venting, to a certain extent, their introduction into the general circulation. In the larger vessels, especially in the veins nearest the point of primary infection, the fibrine is found under various conditions of coagulation, forming long cylindrical plugs, as in crural phlebitis, or shorter clots, whose red coloration depends upon the degree in which the blood corpuscles may have been incorporated in its several lamina?, or their paler yellow colour, upon the absence of the same, and the consequent greater purity of