636 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. ing. The appearance of minute perforations is then lost, and a tomentose or apparently villous condition of the surface occasioned by the loosening out and partial detach- ment of the capillaries which freely ramify within this membrane is observed, , The lining membrane of the uterus differs from mucous membranes in general in hav- ing no sub-mucous tissue, so that it can- not, like that ot the intestines, be made to glide upon the sublying tissues, nor be dis- sected off from them so as to be displayed in a distinct layer. When very thin sections from spirit preparations are examined by transmitted light with a common lens, or with a low power of the microscope, the mu- cous is distinguishable from the muscular coat chiefly by its greater opacity and peculiar greyish colour, as well as by the numerous tortuous canals which permeate its substance, running chiefly in a direction perpendicular to the inner surface of the membrane, and strongly resembling in their general contour the cerebral convolutions. Under the application of dilute acetic acid this comparative opacity and grey hue imme- diately disappear, and the tortuous canals alone serve to mark the boundary between the two coats. When an amplifying power sufficient, to discriminate the component tis- sues is employed, the distinction between the two coats becomes still less apparent, because their constituent elements are then seen to pass from the one to the other by almost im- perceptible gradations, the difference between them being then shown to be morphological rather than structural, at least, at the points of their confluence. The mucous membrane lining the uterine cavity is composed of the following elements, besides the utricular glands, capillary vessels, and epithelium, viz.,—free elementary cor- puscles or nuclei, contractile fibre-cells, and amorphous connective tissue. 1. Free elementary corpuscles or nuclei. — These are in all respects precisely similar to the elementary corpuscles already described as constituting apparently the embryonic state of the contractile fibre-cells in the muscular coat. They form in conjunction with the amorphous matter the principal portion of the uterine lining membrane towards its inner surface. Here they are arranged in nearly close apposition, being imbedded in an amor- phous blastema, yet not so closely as to cause any mutual disturbance of their round or oval forms. 2. Fusiform fibres or contractile fibre-cells. — In the account which has been already- given of the muscular coat, the contractile fibres are described as existing in all the coats of the uterus. In the mucous membrane they are very abundant, especially towards the outer surface, or that part in which the mus- cular and mucous coats become conjoined, and where the transition from the one to the other is almost imperceptible, and is chiefly observable on account of the difference in the arrangement of the constituent tissues of each. The fusiform fibres of the mucous membrane are gathered into loose bundles, united by amorphous tissue and intermixed with the elementary corpuscles from which they are developed. These bundles, the form of which is sometimes like the head of an arrow, are usually found between the utricular glands, pointing in a direction perpendicular to the uterine cavity. The individual fibres have here a softer, paler, and more fleshy aspect than in any other portion of the uterine coats; they are apparently the youngest and most newly formed of the muscular fibres composing the uterus. 3. Amorphous connective tissue constitutes the chief bond of union between the several elements of the uterine mucous coat, and enters largely into the composition of the utricular glands. It presents no special cha- racter requiring a more particular description than has been already given of it in the ac- count of the muscular coat. Utricular glands or follicles. — These struc- tures, which were first more particularly described by E. H. Weber and Professor Sharpey, constitute the most remarkable cha- racteristic of the uterine mucous membrane. By Reichert *, who has also investigated the subject, they were found present in every mammal which he had examined. The ute- rine glands or follicles consist of involutions or depressions of the mucous membrane, which are exceedingly numerous, and lie tolerably close together. They generally present the form of canals taking their course from the muscular walls of the uterus, through the sub- stance of the parenchyma of the mucous membrane towards its free surface, where they terminate each in a separate orifice. In Ruminantia and Pachydermata they are large, and take a serpentine direction, so that they may be easily mistaken for vessels. By Burckhardt f, indeed, who has described them in the cow, they were termed vasa spiralia. Their spiral course is more obvious in the rodentia and carnivora. In the rabbit they are short and wide. The orifices by which the utricular glands terminate upon the surface of the mucous membrane are in some ani- mals large enough to be distinguished by the naked eye, as, for example, in ruminants, and occasionally in man ; but more frequently these require the aid of a lens for their detection. In the dog, two sorts of glands are de- scribed by Professor Sharpey I, simple and compound. The simple glands, which are the more numerous, are merely very short unbranched tubes closed at one end ; the compound glands have a long duct dividing * The composition of the mucous membrane of the uterus has been carefully investigated by Robin and Keichert; vide Robin, " Me'moire pour servir a. PHistoire Anat. et Path, de la Memb. Muqueuse Ute'rine; Archiv. Gen. de Me'd. iv. seYie, torn, xvii.; Reichert, Ueber die Bildung der hinfalligen Haute ; Mailer's Archiv fur Anat. Phys. 1848. t Observ. anat de Uteri Vaccini Fabrica. X Midler's Physiology, by Baly, 1837, p. 1574.