6 OVUM. rapidly through fluids. From the first they exhibit a minutely cellular and granular struc- ture : but it does not appear that they are originally formed from any single nucleated cell: they appear rather from the first to he a congeries of cell progenies. They are desti- tute of an external envelope ; but, nevertheless, it may often be difficult to distinguish between them and true oya. The tendency to the multiplication of indi- viduals by non-sexual reproduction is greatest among those animals which are of the simplest organisation, and more especially among those in which the cellular structure predominates; not that it is confined to them, nor that it occurs in all animals so constituted, but that it is much more frequent and complete in the simplest animals of each class in w hich it has been observed; as if it were more liable to occur in those species in which the process of individual development had proceeded to the least extent of advancement in the formation of the living textures of their bodies. There is accordingly a remarkable similarity in the nature of the processes of non-sexual multi- plication and ordinary growth in these very simple animals; and it is well known that the same relation subsists between a low organi- sation of animals, and their disposition or power to repair individual parts of their bodies lost by injury or accident.* 1st. Of the Process of Reproduction in Pro- tozoa, or animals in winch the sexual distinction has not yet been discovered. Among the Protozoa reproduction takes place in two modes, viz., 1st, by the process of gemmation or fission, and, 2nd, by develop- ment from separated gemmules or germs. For an account of the first of these processes, the reader is referred to the articles Polygastria and Porifer a. -j- Among the Polygastria multiplication by division is much more frequent than that by gemmation. It consists in the fission or di- vision of the whole unicellular body into two nearly equal parts, each of which becomes, when separate, a perfect animalcule like the original one: in some the division is trans- verse, in others longitudinal, and occasionally it occurs in either of these modes in different individuals of the same species. The nucleus of the unicellular polygastria has been fre- quently observed to undergo division previous to the formation of the fissure, by which the division of the external wall is completed,— a fact which has led some physiologists, as Ehrenberg, M. Barry, and Owen, to attribute to the nucleus an important, influence in this process of cleavage; the first of these ob- servers having even conceived the nucleus to act the part of a male or fecundating organ. * See Mr. Paget's recent interesting lectures on this subject, published in Medical Gazette, 1849. f A considerable number of the polygastric infu- soria described by Ehrenberg in his great work on that class, are now very generally regarded as be- longing to the vegetable rather than to the animal kingdom, such as the families Closterina, Volvocina, and Bacillaria. This latter view is not, however, adopted by many of those who have made a study of this class of animals. In some of the polygastria in which the process of multiplication is either of a fissi- parous or gemmiparous kind, as in Vorticella, Uvella, and Polythalamous Rhizopoda, the new individuals remain in connection, and are associated together in branched pediculated groups, in connected masses of a globular form, or in regular spiral united series.* The Porifera, or sponges, appear to be re- produced by a different kind of gemmation from that now described in potygastria,— viz., by separate gemmules or small portions of the substance of the sponge, which, soon after having been detached from the main stock, are moulded into a spherical form, and, being pro- vided with cilia, move about in the water with great vivacity for a considerable period. These gemmules are thrown off in numbers propor- tional in some measure to the activity of the nutrition of the sponge, and therefore princi- pally during the early part of summer. Towards the approach of winter a different kind of re- productive bodies is observed to be formed,— viz. small capsules containing globular germs, which, after development within the capsule, pass out of it and produce a new sponge for every capsule or germ. These bodies have been called ova, and certainly they bear very great, resemblance to them ; but too little is known of their nature and origin to enable us to form an opinion whether they are to be regarded as precisely of the same nature as ova or not. In the mean time they may be named the capsular germs."f But it appears that, among the polygastria, and rhizopoda also, there are sometimes formed, by a peculiar process not ascertained to be of a sexual kind, minute reproductive bodies of a cellular structure, which, if they are not true ova, are at least substitutes for them.j * See an interesting paper by Dr. Carpenter on the Genus Nummulina and other Forammifera in Quart. Journ. of Geol. Soc. Feb. 1850. Some ju- dicious and interesting remarks on this class of animals, and on the relations and characters of the Protozoa in general, are contained in a recent paper by Mr. Huxley in the Annals of Natural History (1851, vol. viii. p. 437.), in which he has described a curious monocellular genus named Thalassicolla, which occurs in masses, and forms spicula some- what like a minute sponge. f See Laurent's elegant memoir, Recherches sur l'Hydre et l'Eponge d'eau douce. 1842. X Allusion is not made here to the production of granules by the diffluence of an infusorian animal- cule erroneously taken by Ehrenberg for the depo- sition of ova, but to a very different process. Du- jardin, who pointed out this error (Hist. Nat. des Infusoires, p. 101.), is of opinion that, besides the processes of fission and gemmation, we know nothing with certainty of the reproducti on of infusoria; but he admits that it is possible that the minute bodies into which an infusorian breaks up by diffluence might prove the germs of new individuals. Dr. Carpenter has mentioned several instances of a kind similar to those alluded to in the text, and has expressed the opinion that something of the nature of sexual pro- duction may yet be discovered to take place in these animals (Prin. of Gen. and Comp. Physiol, p. 249, and p. 917.). Observations of a similar kind are re-