STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 373 IS B 3 has no higher solvent power over albuminous substances than that possessed by the similar fluid prepared from pieces of ileum or colon. While the strongly acid reaction of its contents in many herbivorous animals is sufficiently explained as due to that lactic fermentation, which the various starchy substances are so apt to undergo when exposed to spontaneous decomposition at the temperature (about * 103°) of the intestinal canal. Consistently with such an explanation, this acid reaction is found chiefly or exclusively in those parts of the faecal mass which are not in contact with the alkaline mucous membrane, and is by no means limited to the contents of the ccecal pouch. We may therefore regard the faeces as com- posed chiefly of two constituents : — which are derived, the one from the food taken by the animal, and the other, from the secretions of its digestive organs. And in like manner, we may premise what follows by stating, that the composition of any particular excre- ment will always depend on the nature of the food, the state of the secretions, and the na- ture and amount of the metamorphoses which both these constituents have together under- gone. Physical properties of the faces— Subject to circumstances so numerous and fluctuating, it is obvious that the physical properties of the faeces must vary extremely in different sub- jects. Their ordinary colour, odour, form, size, and consistence are so well known, as scarcely to require any special description in this essay. As regards the two first of these characters, the contents of the small intestine are dis- tinctly fecal. But it is only in the caecum, where both their colour and odour become much more marked, that the feces usually begin to acquire a solid consistence. Their form and size is dictated, partly by the shape and diameter of the bowel (as already alludedf to), and partly by the degree in which their consistence has been augmented by the absorption of their watery parts. Where their solidity is much increased from this latter cause, the act of expulsion has little influence in modifying their form. The way in which it usually does this has been previously pointed out. The odour and colour peculiar to the feces have been ascribed, by some authors, to the bile which enters into their composition ; by others, to the fluids which are poured out into the intestinal canal from the blood-vessels occupying its mucous membrane. It is, how- ever, probable that they are not due to either of these causes exclusively, but depend rather on a combination of both; and are further mo- dified by that admixture of altered (not to say decomposing) food, which forms so large a constituent of the excrement. Thus, that they depend to some extent on the bile, is well shown by those cases of * Brown Sequard, " Experimental Researches in Physiology and Pathology," New York, 1853. t See p. 366. jaundice, in which a deficient secretion of this fluid, or an obstruction of its normal channel, has arrested its flow into the intestine. For in such instances, the ordinary brownish yel- low tint, and fecal smell, proper to the excre- ment, are exchanged for a greyish white co- lour, and an intensely putrefactive odour. But it is certain that, unless the bile be poured out in excessive amount (as after the exhibition of mercury*), or conveyed through the bowels with unusual rapidity (as in diarrhoea and purging), it is but a small fraction of its total quantity that escapes re-absorption, so as to be found in the feces. This statement especially applies to the meconium which occupies the intestine of the foetus. At any rate, this substance contains but little of the acid or the colouring matter of ordinary bile. Now, the preparation of excrement b}7 the fetus, and by hybernating or starving animals, is a satisfactory proof that its specific fecal characters are not essentially due to any modifi- cation of the alimentary matters contained in the intestinal canal. And since the bile forms but a small portion of its mass, it is evident that much of it must be derived from the se- cretions of the digestive tube itself, and that its properties must be partially due to the same source. Indeed, this intestinal constituent, which is probably always a large ingredient of the feces, becomes, in the hybernant and the fetus by far the largest: — so much so, that the dried meconium contains about 85 to 95 per cent, of epithelium and mucus, al- most all of which must be referred to this source. While, as regards its physiological import, it is impossible to doubt that it is (/car' i'iox>)i') the excrement:— that it is, in fact, the chief excretory ingredient of the feces; and hence that ingredient, the dismissal of which from the intestinal canal is most essen- tial to the welfare of the organism generally. The above view, as to the share which both the biliary and the intestinal constituents take in producing the colour and odour of the feces, appears so irrefragable, that we may content ourselves with a passing allusion to those experiments by which it has been at- tempted to establish the predominant or exclu- sive influence of either. Thus, while it has been pointed out by Valentin f that putre- fying bile diffuses the strongest smell of or- dure, LiebigJ states that he has succeeded in the artificial production of the fecal odour by a process which essentially consists in imper- fectly oxidizing some of the more azotized tis- sues of the body. The latter experiment has been regarded as leading to the inference, that * The green colour of the stools after calomel has been taken seems to be due, partly to the chemical reaction of the contents of the intestine, partly to an increase in the quantity of bile poured out. The latter fact has been confirmed by experiments, in which this drug has been administered to dogs pro- vided with biliary fistula? opening externally. The chemical change undergone by the mercury in the intestinal tube consists (like that of the salts of iron under similar circumstances) in the formation of a sulphuret of the metal. t Lehrbuch der Physiologie, vol. i., p. 370. j Animal Chemistry, 3rd ed., p. 148. etseq.