Gil FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT—(Functions). duct, which it is necessary here to notice, is the addition, sometimes, of a thick layer of albumen around the zona pellucida, which is formed upon it in the middle and lower por- tions of the tube. But this is certainly not a constant, and apparently not even a common occurrence. It occurs in the rabbit, but not in the bitch, Guinea-pig, or roe. These are the principal and more obvious changes which the ovum experiences in its passage down the Fallopian tube until it enters the uterus. So regular is the order with which they succeed each other that particular portions of the tube may be as- signed as the seat of each occurrence. Thus the first, or upper third of the oviduct is appropriated to the reception of the ovum, which, soon after quitting the ovary, is here deprived of its adventitious covering of nu- cleated cells, and is thus prepared for the full operation of the spermatozoa, whose active movements in this part of the tube have been frequently noticed. Here also spermatozoa have been frequently seen upon, and even within, the ova ; and here the first changes characteristic of the commencing operations of the sperm force, such as the formation of the respiratory chamber, and rotation of the yelk, may be noticed. In the middle of the tube the ova commonly exhibit still more decided evidences of impregnation. The cleavage of the yelk has already com- menced, and one or more granular bodies occupy the space between it and the zona. The ova found in the lower third, except those which may be destined to perish, al- ways show unmistakable signs of impregna- tion, of which the segmentation of the yelk, now advanced to the production of 12—1G divisions, is the most expressive. If the views of Bischoff be correct, it is in the upper third, or at farthest in the middle of the tube, that impregnation must occur, unless indeed it takes place at the ovary. For in the lower end of the tube the more definite developmental changes of the ovum occur, or otherwise the ovum perishes. In the dog and Guinea-pig, by the time the ovum has reached this spot, the oestrus is past, and the animal will no longer permit the coitus.* Connected apparently with some of the foregoing steps in the process of generation, though it does not appear precisely with which, is a phenomenon described by Bis- choff'as occurring in the Guinea-pig. Several * Pouchet (L'Ovulation Spontane'e) places the seat of impregnation lower down in the oviduct. He asserts that it is only about the middle of the tube, or more particularly in its lower portion, and even in the cavity of the uterus itself, that the material contact of the ova with the spermatozoa can occur. And he regards the passage of the semen as far as the extremity of the tube, and its arrival at the ovary, as an " excessively rare ano- maly." But these statements are based upon ex- aminations directed only to the detection of the presence of spermatozoa in the oviduct, and are not connected with microscopic observations of those developmental changes in the ovum, which are in- disputably the results of impregnation, and of which an account has been given in the text. times Bischoff had the good fortune to ob- serve with a lens, and also under the micro- scope, a peristaltic action in the walls of the oviduct, by which the contained ova, visible through them, were moved backwards and for- wards. The ova appeared to be surrounded by a transparent fluid, in which they floated. Now, such an observation is interesting, when viewed in connexion with two circum- stances, specially observed and proved by Newport, namely, that in the artificial im- pregnation of the ova of amphibia, although tire process of impregnation is commenced at the instant of contact of the spermatozoa with the ova, yet a certain duration of contact is essential to its completion. And further, that although an exceedingly minute quantity of spermatozoa suffices to impregnate the ovum, yet impregnation takes place more tardily when the number is extremely limited than when the number is in full abundance ; while when the quantity is reduced below a certain amount, or the duration of contact is limited, then the phenomenon is incomplete, and partial impregnation, evidenced by imperfect segmentation of the yelk, and arrest of the further stages of development, is the in- evitable result. Since, then, it cannot be supposed that a less perfect or complete contact of the ova with the spermatozoa is needful to their im- pregnation in the higher than in the lower vertebrata, there seems to be good ground for conjecturing that this peculiar peristaltic movement in the walls of the Fallopian tube, which has been noticed also by other ob- servers, may have for one of its objects the more perfect commingling of the two gene- rative elements, the spermatozoa and the ova, which, proceeding as they do in opposite di- rections, and encountering each other in some portion of the canal, would thus be carried backwards and forwards, and thus a certain permanence of contact, such as Newport has shown to be necessary in the amphibia, would be insured to them. And this supposition may be further strengthened by the reflection that while an onward movement in either di- rection would serve for the conveyance of each element singly along the tube, a back- ward and forward motion alternating could only retard either or both processes, and that there could be only one apparent advantage in such retardation, namely, the retention of both elements for a longer or shorter time in permanence of contact. To sum up the offices of the Fallopian tube, the following may be said to have been with certainty ascertained to belong to that division of the generative organs : To re- ceive the spermatic fluid from the uterus and convey it upwards through the entire canal, and as far sometimes as the ovary ; To receive contrariwise the unimpregnated ova, as they are discharged from the ovary, by means of its expanded open mouth, which in these cases, where the entire ovary cannot be grasped, is guided, by a process hitherto unexplained, to select and apply itself to that it r 2