[110] OVUM. cussata, according to Ley dig*, the ova are ar- ranged in aggregated pediculated groups, from which it seems probable that they are originally produced in numbers by the multiplication or division of multiple germs, somewhat in the same manner as will afterwards be stated to have been observed by Meissner among the Gordian Nematoid Worms. An albuminous layer is afterwards formed externally, and may be instrumental at last, from its increasing thickness, in separating the ovum from its pe- diculated attachment to the ovary. There seems therefore to be little doubt that in these Mollusca, and in a certain number of other Invertebrate animals in which the micropyle has been observed, this apparatus is produced by the remains of an original or early ovarian pedicle. In the Unio and Anodonta it is certainly not formed by the peculiar process of development from within the ovum, which has been elaborately described by Keber.-f- It will afterwards be shown, however, as in- deed may be concluded from what has already been stated in regard to osseous fishes, that in other animals the micropyle may arise in other modes and without the early existence of the pedicle now described. When the ova are detached by the rupture of the pedicle in the Acephala, they lie, in different stages of advancement, but all pro- vided with the micropyle, in the general ovarian cavity. The coverings of the Acephalous ovum appear to be composed at least of two layers, of which the inner may per- haps be looked upon as the vitelline mem- brane, the outer as a chorion; but sufficient data have not yet been furnished to determine the homological rank of these membranes. The early connection, in a pediculated form, with the ovarian stroma might point to a different view of their nature. Leydig states that while in Unio and Anodonta the albu- men is deposited within the membranes, in Venus it is added externally. The micropyle appears to be closed previous to the com- mencement of embryonic development. Arthrofoda.—The ova of Articulate animals might with most propriety be classed with the large-yolked group, at least as regards the ova of Insecta, Arachnida, and the higher Crustacea. In addition to the germinal vesicle and finely granular yolk-substance, they all contain a large proportion of clear or oil glo- bules of considerable size; and the process of segmentation is generally limited to a small portion of the yolk surface. The ova of these three classes present, however, many subordinate differences in their structure and mode of production, which renders it neces- sary to give a short separate account of them in this place. Insecta. — The ova of insects are more especially distinguished by the extraordinary varieties of their external form and appearance. These varieties affect, however, principally, or depend upon modifications of the external * Miiller'sArchiv. 1854, p. 320. •j- Ilessling and BischotK, loc. cit. covering, chorion or shell-membrane, as it has been called. They differ also from those of most other animals in a frequent departure from the regular symmetrical form. Some are nearly hemispherical, others more oval ; many are somewhat bent in an antero-posterior direction *; many present the most curious elevations and irregularities on their external surface—reticulated ridges or fringes, and de- pressions, tubercles, hairs or spines, or other long processes, sometimes single, at other times in numbers. These modifications of the external coverings of the eggs of Insects appear to have reference chiefly to the protection of the ova from the effects of external injury, and to serve various mechani- cal purposes connected with their deposition and attachment; but they are not, in most at least, attended with any important varieties in the internal structure, which, on the whole, presents considerable uniformity throughout the whole class. The ova of all insects, we shall afterwards see, are provided with one or more apertures corresponding to the micro- pyle. « All recent observers agree that, in the ova of Insects, in addition to the external shell- covering, there is a delicate transparent vitel- line membrane. The germinal vesicle is of pro- portionately large size. Its macula is at first single ; but in the course of the growth of the ovum it becomes multiple, or diffused as a finely granular or molecular substance throughout the vesicle.f The germinal vesicle is situated in a vitelline or germinal area composed of fine granules, in which without doubt the limited process of segmentation afterwards takes place; but fuller observations are still much required in regard to the segmentation of the yolk in insects, which has as yet been very rarely seen. The germinal vesicle appears to be burst and diffused at a comparatively early stage of the growth of the egg. The external membrane consists in general of more than one layer of substance. The outer and inner are described as being gene- rally more clear, dense, and homogeneous ; the middle one, in some insects at least, pre- senting greater varieties of structure, and not unfrequently being composed of united nu- cleated cells. It is in these several layers of the outer membrane that the micropyle ap- paratus, recently discovered, is situated. The existence of a micropyle in the ova of Insects was first published by Meissner, in September, 1854 J ; but the discovery appears to have been made simultaneously by Leuckart, who has given a most interesting and elaborate description of this apparatus, and of the minute structure of the membranes, in a great variety of insects, in a memoir recently pub- lished by him.(J Meissner described several varieties of the * This has reference to the position they occupy during their formation in the passages of the female parent. f See R. Wagner's Prodromus Hist. Generat. j Zeitsch. fur Wissen. Zool. vol. v., p. 272. § Memoir on the Micropyle and Minute Structure,