592 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. as has been done by Rokitansky and Lebert*, with the other forms of cystic disease of the ovary, on account of the frequency with which this form of cancer is found associated with ovarian cysts, especially of the larger class. But such an arrangement, whilst recognising an important feature, often, but not always, observed in colloid cancers of the ovary, of necessity dissociates these cases from other congeneric forms of disease. In this particu- Colloid cancer of tlie ovary. (After Cruveilhier.) lar respect colloid cancer appears to stand between the various cystic diseases already described, and those forms of cancer which are not colloid, in the position of one of those " osculent groups " which have been some- times employed in classifications of the animal kingdom as connecting links, to bring into juxtaposition objects which, though exhibit- ing certain near affinities, could not be in- cluded in one common group, without violence to the principles upon which a natural ar- rangement should be based. Not, however, to enter further upon the disputed question of the nature of alveolar cancer of the ovary, it will suffice to notice those peculiarities which are generally to be observed when the disease affects that org;in. Since colloid cancer of the ovary does not generally destroy life until the disease has made great progress, the specimens of ovaries so af- fected which come under our notice are often of large size, filling the pelvis and abdomen, and equalling in bulk the masses of cyst formation of a more innocent type. Such a mass, when incised, may be found to include the entire ovarian structure, which is converted into a collection of cysts, or alveolar cavities, varying greatly in size and in the thickness of their walls. Such a variety is often seen in dif- ferent portions of the same structure. The surface of a section may present in some parts * Rokitansky, however, regards these cases as decidedly cancerous; while Lebert asserts that they have nothing in common with colloid cancer except the gelatinous contents of the cells. the appearance of a fine sponge, the alveolar spaces being condensed and somewhat flat- tened, in consequence of the profusion with which the alveoli have been developed. In other portions of the same tumour, and oc- casionally as it were in separate lobules of it, the alveoli are more expanded, and take a round or oval form, assuming the condition of distinct cysts, some of which may considerably exceed the rest in magnitude. These larger cysts may occupy a seat within the mass, or project from its surface ; and probably in this way arise those still larger cystic formations in which one or more large sacs occur, having connected with them masses of alveolar struc- ture such as those just described. The interstitial substance, which constitutes also the boundary walls of the alveoli and fol- licles, is composed of a white, shining, fibrous tissue, upon the density of which chiefly de- pends the general hardness or softness of the mass. This intermediate substance is in some instances so thick that the cysts appear like excavations in a dense medium, but often the cyst walls are so thin that the peripheral follicles project in the form of thin-walled sacs from the surface, and the whole mass is sometimes so feebly supported as to assume the appear- ance of a trembling jelly. The thin-walled cysts are generally richly supplied with blood- vessels. These cysts are filled with a viscid mucous- like material, resembling half-liquid jelly, which is sometimes colourless, but oftener of a gray- ish amber, yellow-green, or reddish hue. Im-