508 RUMINANTIA. of foramina for the passage of the vertebral arteries through the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebrae. This ana- tomical arrangement occurs in no other existing tribe of mammifers, but in an aber- rant form of fossil pachyderm (Macrau- chenia), Dr. Owen has detected the same anomaly, and has thus established an ad- ditional connecting link between the Pachy- dermata and Ruminantia. In the classification of the Cervidas given above we have included two genera not usually considered as forming a part of this family. One of the principal characters of the Cervidse proper consists in the presence of deciduous horns or antlers : the genus Moschus, however, like the Camelida?, is hornless; and the genus Camelopardalis is provided with persistent horns which are at all times clothed with a hairy integument. The dental formula of the Cervidae and all other horned ruminants is usually as fol- lows, — 0 p. m.. 3 3 = 32. 11' 3 "3 ' 3 3 The Musk-deer tribe have in addition two long and conspicuous canines in the upper jaw, projecting in the males below the mouth, {fig. 330.). The male Kijang or Muntjak (Cervus muntjac, Zimmerman) has likewise two prominent canines in the upper jaw (ft> fig- 331.). In the Giraffe there is a complicated glandular and pouch-like struc- ture in the neighbourhood of the ileo-colic valve.* The Antelopidae include the greater num- ber of the Cavicornua or hollow-horned division of ruminants in which the bony axis of the horn is solid, persistent, and destitute of cavities or pores. They have, for the most part, a slender figure adapted for rapid pro- gression, and, like the Stags, are further dis- tinguished by the possession of infraor- bital glandular sinuses. Under the term ffigoscerida; (CEgosceros, Pallas) we have brought together the closely allied genera Cap/a and Ovis. The Goats are characterised chiefly by their long horns, which are directed upward and backward, are more or less angular in front, rounded behind, and generally marked by transverse bars or ridges. The chin is clothed with a long beard. The Sheep which have no beard differ mainly in having the horns directed at first backward, and subsequently bent spirally forward. Between the toes at the anterior aspect of the feet is situated a special glan- dular sebaceous sac; this structure is also found in other ruminants, — the Rein-deer, for instance. Neither the Sheep nor Goats exhibit the lachrymal sinuses so character- istic of the majority of the Antelopes and Stags. Fig. 325. Skeleton of the Cow. (From Pander and D'Alton. The BovidcB present few anatomical pecu- liarities not shared by the preceding genera. As regards external configuration, however, they are at once recognised by their bulky massive size, the broad muzzle, and powerful limbs (fig. 325.). The hor ns are directed laterally, with an inclination upward more or less curved. In their habits and in the struc- ture of the skin, some of the species, the Buffaloes, for example, approach the pachy- dermatous type. Osteology. — The general form of the skull in ruminants, when viewed laterally, is that of an isosceles triangle, the base of which is represented by the occipital crest and rami of the jaw, and the apex by the incisive pro- minence ; but exceptions occur, as for instance, in the common sheep, where the frontal bones are so much arched as to produce a somewhat oval figure, and in the camel, where, owing to the abrupt termination of the nasal and sudden depression of the intermaxillary bones, an obliquely quadrilateral form is the result (fig. 334). The forehead is usually- straight and elevated, the orbits are placed wide apart, and the muzzle, except in Bovida;, * See " Glands of Intestine " in this Article.