428 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. formed by the branches of the sympathetic which pass down in front of the arteria in- nominata on the right side, and the arch of the aorta on the left side, corresponds to what is termed by some the superficial cardiac plexus, while the portion formed by the branches of the sympathetic and vagus which descend behind the arch of the aorta between it and the trachea, is termed the deep cardiac plexus. The branches which proceed from the cardiac plexus are the following: — (a) Numerous filaments pass oft' from the upper part of the plexus and surround the arch of the aorta, as well as the large arterial trunks whicli spring from the same, (b) Others pass along the right and left pulmonary arteries, and terminate in the pulmonary plexus, (c) Offsets are also sent along the coronary ar- teries, forming the anterior and posterior coronary plexuses. The anterior coronary plexus is chiefly derived from the superficial portion of the cardiac plexus, and accom- panies the anterior or right coronary artery and its divisions ; the posterior coronary plexus, chiefly derived from the left side of the deeper portion of the cardiac plexus, is situated at first behind the aorta and pulmo- nary artery ; it then passes in front of the left division of the pulmonary artery to the base of the heart, and reaches the posterior co- ronary artery, around which it forms an inter- lacement of filaments. Numerous filaments are distributed by it to the left side of the heart, especially to the left ventricle : the filaments of the anterior coronary plexus are chiefly distributed to the right ventricle. The nerve filaments which leave the coronary plexuses do not all accompany the branches of the coronary arteries, as was formerly sup- posed; by far the greater number of them run separately from the vessels, and are distributed to the muscular substance of the heart. As regards the arrangement of the nerves on leaving the coronary plexuses, they appear to be much more numerous on the ventricles than the auricles. The filaments distribut- ed to the former are very numerous; they are directed from the base to the apex of the ventricle; those on the anterior surface passing obliquely downwards from left to right, those on the posterior surface from right to left ; they thus in general cross obliquely the direc- tion of the muscular fibres of the ventricles, and often also that of the blood vessels. Where they cross the latter, especially in the heart of the young ox, they appear to bifur- cate, so as to enclose the vessel in a loop ; and at this point there is frequently, as is re- presented by Dr. Lee, a small enlargement which occasionally contains ganglionic matter.* In their course along the surface of the ven- tricles, neighbouring filaments frequently unite, there being here also small ganglionic enlarge- ments. According to Dr. Lee there are dis- tinctly visible on the anterior surface of the * Dr. Lee, on the Ganglia and Nerves of the Heart. Phil. Trans. 1849. young heifer's heart about ninety of these ganglia or ganglionic enlargements. The left ventricle appears to be more abundantly sup- plied with nerves than that of the right side : on the former they can be traced, extending from base to apex, on the surface of the latter they generally extend but a little way down, when they sink into the muscular substance. 2. Plexus of the Thoracic Aorta. This con- sists of delicate filaments which are derived from the thoracic portion of the gangliated chain of the sympathetic; several filaments also pass between it and the oesophageal plexus. Above, it is continued into the cardiac plexus, from which it derives some branches,and below it accompanies the vessel through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, to terminate in the cceliac plexus. C. Abdominal Plexuses of the Sympathetic — The abdominal plexuses of the sympathetic are larger and more numerous than those oc- curring in any of the other cavities of the body. They correspond in number with the branches of the abdominal aorta, and accom- pany them in their course to the different viscera. From the plexuses occurring on the larger arteries, off-sets pass, which form a number of subsidiary plexuses upon the smaller vessels. The chief abdominal plexuses are the cceliac, superior mesenteric, renal, inferior mesen- teric, and superior and inferior hypogastric plexuses. 1. The cceliac, solar, or epigastric plexus is the largest of the plexuses of the sympa- thetic. It is situated in the upper part of the cavity of the abdomen, on both sides of the aortic opening in the diaphragm, extending across the anterior part of the aorta, and is covered in front by the stomach. It sur- rounds the cceliac axis, and extends down- wards as far as the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It usually contains two ganglia; these present a somewhat crescentic form, and have on this account been termed the semilunar ganglia. They are situated one on each side of the plexus towards its upper part, and are commonly surrounded by a num- ber of smaller ganglia. The solar plexus receives the splanchnic nerves, also some branches from the posterior gastric plexus of the pneumogastric ; it likewise receives fila- ments from the plexus which has been de- scribed as surrounding the thoracic aorta, as well as others from the three or four upper lumbar ganglia. The offsets from the plexus present the same plexiform arrangement as the plexus itself, and are named according to the arteries which they accompany ; they are the phrenic, or diaphragmatic, superior coro- nary, hepatic, splenic, and renal plexuses. (a) The diaphragmatic plexuses are two in number, a right and left, and consist of several delicate filaments derived from the upper part of the semilunar ganglia. They often present several small ganglionic en- largements, and accompany the diaphragmatic arteries, sinking with them into the muscular