REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 215 present well-marked distinctive peculiarities of structure. The frond consists of olive- coloured, irregularly divided JlabeVi, on each a, a portion of one of the tufts, or sori, of Cutleria, showing the mode of attachment of t he filaments which support the sporangia to the surface of the frond; s, a ripe sporangium. Two others, half ripe, are also seen. Each is divided into eight compartments, in each of which is formed a zoospore,—200 diam.; b, zoospores; c, the same in various stages of germination; the earliest stage to the right, 300 diam. side of which, tufts (sori), consisting of the reproductive organs, intermixed with hair- like bodies, are scattered at irregular intervals. The sporangia, and so-called antheridia, are borne by different individuals, but their po- sitions and arrangements on the frond are identical. The former consist of oblong or club-shaped bodies, which are supported by hyaline pedicles, set into their inferior extre- mities. The cavity of each sporangium is divided by three transverse partitions into four cavities, each of which is again bisected by a longitudinal median septum. In each of Portion of one of the sori of the male plant of the same. The ripe sausage-shaped vesicles, which contain antherozoids, are shaded. Others are shown which have already discharged their contents, 180 diam. The transverse markings, much too distinct in the engraving, indicate a tendency to the formation of compartments similar to those which present themselves in the sporangia. the resulting cavities, zoospores are to be found, which, though they altogether resemble in structure those of the other olive-coloured Alga?, are about three times as large. The supposed antheridia of Cutleria communicate to the tufts of which they form a part, their characteristic orange colour. The organs themselves are elongated, sausage-shaped vesicles: they contain a greyish, granular matter, in which, as the organ becomes ripe, indications may be observed of a division into several concentric layers ; the more internal of these layers being distinguished from those next the surface by the greater intensity of the orange colour which they present. After Fig. 133. ) r ( Contents of antheridium of the same, 400 dialn. Each autherozoid is an oval hyaline corpuscle, which moves in the direction of its long axis. It exhibits towards its posterior extremity a coloured granule, from which springs a pair of cilia of unequal length. The longer of the two, which oscillates rapidly, is directed forwards; the shorter, which is motionless, backwards. the discharge of the contents of the antheri- dium, it may be observed to consist of a transparent vesicle, which, like the analogous female organ, is divided by transverse and longitudinal septa into eight communicating cavities. 8. With the organs last described we think we need have little hesitation in comparing the structures to which the same name has been applied, as they occur in the Fucaceae. The fructification of these plants is, as is well Fig. 134. a, antheridia from the conceptacle of Halidrys sili- quosa, with the filaments on which they are sup- ported, 200 diam.; l>, antherozoids, 400 diam. known, enclosed in spherical cavities, situate under the epidermis of the frond, which are called conceptacles, and may be male, female, P 4