OVUM. 27 the true Cysticercus, to a form in which the caudal vesicle has diminished to such an extent as almost to have disappeared, while at the same time the body has been divided into segments by transverse grooves, as in the Taenia; and in some instances these seg- ments have even acquired sexual organs while the animal was still encysted, a circumstance which lias never been observed in any true Cysticercus. Fig. 25. Cysticercus fasciolaris of the Mouse, and Taenia crassicollis of the Cat. a, Cysticercus fasciolaris from the liver of the mouse, natural size, b, the head of the same, magnified. (From Dujardin.) c, head and first segments of the body of Taenia crassicollis of the cat, showing the double circle of hooks ; a few of the smaller under circle being seen where one or two of the larger ones have fallen off. A close comparison of the structure of the Cysticercus fasciolaris of the rat and mouse in its various stages of development with the Taenia crassicollis of the domestic cat, has shown an almost complete similarity between these animals, and has suggested the view that the encysted Taenia (which the Cysti- cercus ftsciolaris in truth is) may attain its full development as a Taenia in the intestinal canal of those animals which prey upon the smaller Rodentia, in whose liver it begins to be developed in its first simple vesicular form, and gives the greatest probability to the sup- position that there may be a similar general relation between the Cystic and Cestoid En- tozoa, not of the same animals, but between the tapeworms of different tribes of predaceous animals and the vesicular worms of others serving them as food.* * Dujardin, Hist. Nat. des Helminthes, 1845. E. Blanchard (who does not appear to have fully appre- ciated the necessity of change of habitation for the entire development of the taenia), Sur ['Organisation des Vers, Ann. des Scien. Nat. 1848, torn. x. p. ij48. V. Siebold, in Zeitsch. f. Wiss. Zool. 1850, and Ann. des Sciences Nat. 1851. I am indebted to Dr. Henry Nelson, for an account of some interesting researches on this subject which formed a part of bis Inaugural Dissertation " On the Development of the Entozoa," on obtaining the degree of M. D. at the University of Edinburgh, in 1850. The limits of this article The different phases of development, there- fore, in which the so-called Cysticercus fascio- laris has been seen in the same and in dif- ferent animals which they inhabit, leave little doubt that they are encysted Taeniae, which proceed to a much more advanced stage of development than is usual with the vesicular and encysted form of these Entozoa ; and we are warranted, from the great similarity of structure, in adopting the view that the true vesicular Cysticerci, the Caenuri and Echino- cocci, are morbid or metamorphosed and aberrant conditions of the embryoes of various Taeniae, which may be capable, to a greater or less degree, in different kinds of animals, of multiplying their own incomplete forms by a process of non-sexual gemmation, but which never, in the encysted condition (except in the instances already referred to of the f'ascio- lated kind), attain to sexual completeness ; but which either undergo a retrograde change, and thus form tumours and various pathological deposits in the seat of their cysts, or become developed to such an extent as to be injurious or destructive to the animal in which they reside.* Free Tapeworms. — Three principal forms of cestoiil worms are now distinguished from one another, viz. Taeniae, Bothriocephali, and Tetrarhynchi ; the two first have long been known and sufficiently well characterised in their fully grown condition, though little under- stood in their early or incomplete states ; the history of the third, until recently, has been involved in great obscurity, as it has been most variously described by different ob- servers both in the earlier and more advanced stages of its growth. It appears now to be ascertained that all of these cestoids are com- plete animals, with a single head, a body composed of a multitude of segments, each of which contains male and female sexual organs, which are developed only when the entozoon is living free in the alimentary canal of animals belonging principally to the Verte- brata. The Taeniae inhabit chiefly the alimen- tary canal of mammals and birds ; the Bothrio- cephali and Tetrarhynchi more frequently that of fishes and reptiles, and the latter a few mollusca. The Tetrarhynchi have been more frequently described in the encysted and im- perfect condition than in the full-grown form, and in such varieties, that V. Siebold has mentioned about sixty different kinds of worms described by various authors under distinct ap- pellations, which might, according to him, be prevent me from entering into the details of Dr. Nelson's observations, which have not yet been pub- lished. It is enough to mention that a very careful comparison of the Cysticercus fasciolaris of the mouse and rat, in various stages of its development, with the Taenia crassicollis of the cat, enabled him to confirm, in a most satisfactory manner, the view which, unknown to Dr. Nelson, had previously been taken by V. Siebold, that these cystic and cestoid forms are different stages of one and the same animal. See also Leuckart on Cysticerci, in Wieg- mann's and Ericbson's Archiv for 1848. * See Gulliver, in Med. Chir. Trans. 1841.