296 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. Many species of Distcma or Fluke may be regarded as types of an arborescent or rami- fied digestive tube. From a mouth which is suctorial—and sometimes visibly muscular —a canal passes backwards, to divide into two large branches. These run along the margins of the oval and flattened animal, giving off other brandies; from which proceed a final series of anastomosing twigs. y. In many creatures closely allied to the preceding by conformation and habits, this ramified canal is reduced to its primary bi- furcations, the ends of which are sometimes slightly dilated. Occasionally there is an enlargement, which has the situation of a pha- rynx ; and which, in a few instances, encloses an apparatus perhaps masticatory. In the genus Diplostomum and others, a distinct set of vessels, which occupies the immediate neigh- bourhood of the intestine, has been supposed to represent a chyliferous or vascular system. As regards these latter forms of digestive apparatus, it may be conjectured, that the ramification witnessed in the Tcenia is re- ferrible, not so much to that mere vege- tative repetition of similar structures which affects the whole animal, as to a merging of the digestive in the circulatory function. In any case, the more simple form of tube last mentioned appears rather akin to an advance, than to a retreat, of development; while it sometimes visibly coincides with the appearance of a new system of canals, con- nected with the circulation of a proper nu- trient fluid. In the Nematoid Entozoa, the alimentary canal is generally a straight tube, which oc- cupies the axis of the vermiform animal, and opens at its extremities. In most genera — as in the Trichina, Tricocephalus, Ascaris, Strongylus, and others — it widens posteri- orly ; where it often experiences a further dilatation, which only ceases near the anus. Rarely, other indications of separation are added : — an oesophageal dilatation, as in the Ascaris lumbricoidcs ; or an enlargement cor- responding in position to a stomach, as in the Linguatida and Fdaria. Rudiments of the organs accessory to di- gestion have also been detected. Blind tubes opening into the canal near its mouth are found in several genera : and the position of these has sometimes led to their being re- garded as salivary. While rarely there is a tube which opens into the intestine in the situation of a biliary organ* In the mode of attachment of their diges- tive canal, this division of the Entozoa offers a marked contrast with the preceding. In the Stcrclmintha (or solid worms) the tube is scarcely distinguishable from the mass of the body. While in these Ccelchnintha (or hollow Nematoid worms), it is suspended from the wall of the belly by filamentous processes. And though such an acquisition of an abdominal cavity is no doubt partly referrible to the isola- tion demanded by the organs of locomotion, yet not only does this itself imply a general advance of development, but it is actually accompanied by a curious structure, which is apparently connected with nutrition, and pos-- sibly renders the cavity of the abdomen the receptacle of a kind of chyle. Its more perfe;t form in the Ascaris lumbricoidcs may be briefly described as consisting of a series of pyriform processes, the peduncles of which are seated immediately upon the mesenteric filaments previously alluded to, and which project freely into the abdominal cavity, so as to be sur- rounded by the serum and grey transparent substance that fills this space. Their shape resembles that of the villi of higher animals; and their size increases towards the median line of the body. The alimentary canal of the Polyp exhibits so wide a range of development, that while by one extreme it approaches that of the sim- plest anenterous Infusoria, by the other it attains a complexity akin to that of the highest Invertebrata. The Hydra is little more than a stomach or sac, fixed by a sucker at its closed extre- mity, and having at its other end a mouth sur- rounded by prehensile tentacles. Digestion is, however, energetic. The living prey, which is paralysed by the deadly grasp of the ten- tacles, undergoes a rapid solution in this sto- mach, while its colours often visibly mix with those of the parietes common to the organ ami the animal; and finally, its excrementitious residue is speedily rejected by the same orifice through which it previously entered. In other solitary Polyps—for example in the marine Actinice—the folded bag formed by the stomach is separated from the mouth by an oesophageal constriction. It is at the same time attached to, and isolated from, the general wall of the animal, by radiating mus- cular bands ; which extend vertically down the whole depth of the organ, so as to resemble the septa of a poppy capsule as seen in a transverse section. The compound Polyp appears chiefly to vary from this type by virtue of its individuals possessing a common stem, the proper nutri- tion of which requires it to be closely con- nected with the organ of digestion. Thus, in some of the Anthozca which possess a stomach very similar to that of the Sea-ane- mones just described, an orifice of small size at the bottom of the gastric sac seems to admit the results of digestion into the general cavity of the animal, within which they experience a kind of circulation. In the Tuhnlarian Polyp, the canal is modi- fied by the addition of a structure which may be regarded as a pharyngeal proboscis. It is a globular projection, surrounded by tentacles at its free extremity, and by its other end received immediately within a circle of simi- lar organs;—the place of its attachment being marked by an internal constriction, through which the cavity of this appendix communi- cates with that of the stomach. In many of these Polyps, the stomach has been seen to possess a ciliated lining ; and there are grounds for presuming the ex- istence of a similar structure in several other