207 PELVIS. Ankylosis is the most frequently seen in the sacro-coccygeal joint. It is also met with in the sacro-iliae, and sometimes, but most rarely, in the pubic symphysis. Anky- losis of the coccyx is one cause of pelvic ob- struction and protracted labour, and as such has been before adverted to. Meckel de- scribes ankylosis of the coccyx to be more frequent in males than in females, particularly in such as have long-continued equestrian habits. Coalescence of the bones composing the sacro-lumbar articulations have been before described as producing deformed pelvis. This formation almost universally results from an original aberration of development, and not from ankylosis as a subsequent pathological result. Sometimes it occurs on both sides with hypertrophy and transformation of the last lumbar transverse process. In many of the instances recorded of six sacral pieces, and in the pelvis drawn after Murphy (see Jig. 113.), a complete coalescence of this kind probably existed. Ossification of the sacroiliac joint has also been referred to in connection with the "pelvis oblique ovata." It is, however, by no means confined to pelves presenting that deformity. In the Museum of King's College is a well- formed male pelvis, with ankylosis of the sacro-iliac joint on the left side, the bones presenting no other traces of disease or de- formity. In the experience of Rokitansky, it is rare that the bony union in ankylosis of the pelvic joints extends through the whole of the op- posed articulating surfaces, but generally takes place by bridge-like processes, passing from one margin of the joint surface to the opposing margin, so as to enclose the fibro- cartilage in a kind of bony capsule. It is not ascertained whether the fibro-cartilage itself ossifies, or, as he thinks is most likely, be- comes absorbed before the ossifying process from the adjacent bones. This author does not mention whether this process takes place without previous inflammation, or follows the analogy of other joints, in which pain, inflam- mation and absorption of the cartilages, usually precede the ankylosis. The instances of in- complete ossific union mentioned by him to be most common have most probably a rheu- matic origin, like the smaller exostoses pre- viously referred to, and arise from ossific deposits in the circumferential ligaments, with- out the interior structures being affected. Meckel describes ossification of the sacro- iliac joints as those most frequently seen, and that it most commonly occurs on the right side, and is to be accounted for by the greater pressure borne upon the right leg! He con- siders, also, that ossifications of this joint usually take place without preceding inflam- mation, from a gradual change in their sub- stance and in the fibrous tissues around them. In a specimen of ankylosedpubic symphysis described by J. P. Mitchell, anil given by Hull in his 2nd Letter, the whole of the fibro- cartilaginous disc was converted into a smooth equable bony substance. A few other cases of complete ankylosis of this symphysis are recorded by Wagner. In a case described and figured by Sandifort*, the pubes were united on their posterior and upper surfaces by an osseous bridge in the position of the ligaments, leaving a chink between the bones in front. In the same pelvis the right ob- turator membrane was also extensively ossified, as well as a considerable portion of the right capsular ligament of the hip joint, — all these circumstances indicating a rheumatic origin. Ossification of the ligamentum arcuatum is also mentioned as sometimes interfering with the urethra. Cases of imperfect ankylosis of the pubic joint are also mentioned by Siebold, Voigtel, Walter, and Bonnard.f All writers agree that ankylosis of this joint is rare. Dr W. Hunter had never seen an instance of it. Ossification of the sacro-sciatic ligaments is mentioned by Meckel as sometimes exist- ing, and even more commonly than that of the pubic symphysis. Such a condition, if present in the female during parturition, would offer great obstruction to the passage of the head through the inferior strait, from its unyielding nature, and resistance to the extension of the coccyx. It is, however, not sufficiently common to be enumerated as one of the ordinary obstacles to parturition. A different result of inflammatory change in the pelvic joints, is that which gives rise to the separation of the bones at their articular surfaces. This, as a pathological process, takes place most frequently by deposits of pus, as a consequence of puerpal fever, which may entirely destroy the joint, and separate the bones. From its more exposed position and more open structure, this change has been most frequently observed in the symphysis pubis. A case of this kind is described by Dr. W. Hunter, and many others have been observed. A more remarkable separation of the pelvic joints is to be ascribed to a congenital origin. It is one in which the pubic bones and with them, in a minor degree, the sacro-iliac auri- cular surfaces, are separated, mere or less widely, and held together by a ligamentous band. Instances in which this occurs to the extent of a third of an inch, are mentioned by Professor Otto, as being pretty frequent.J Probably one of the most extreme cases of this kind is seen in a preparation at present in the Huntcrian Museum. It is the pelvis of a woman, which was presented, as I am in- formed, by Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, and taken from a case which died in the infir- mary of that town. The pubes are separated to the great distance of 4-J inches; and con- nected by a ligamentous band of about the width, in its present dried state, of from i to f of an inch. The pubes are more ele- vated than normal, with their articular ex- tremities turned outward, and the symphy- * Observ. Anat. Path.,b. i. p. 115., tab. 8. t Journal de Med. de Paris, 1778. t. xxxix. p.433. % Compend. of Human and Comp, Anatomy.