93 PANCREAS. in all. The appearance of the frill of pyloric casca is shown in fig. 67, and one of the bunches separate in fig. 68. In the Salmon this apparatus of caeca is much more voluminous. It is not condensed around a particular portion of the intestine, but extends linearly, from close to the duo- denum for a distance of about eight inches along the intestinal wall; each caecum opens by its own separate orifice. There is no coalescence or fusion, so that on looking on the inside of the intestine there are seen as many orifices as caeca; they form a double row on each side, so that altogether there are four rows, and are arranged with the utmost regularity. The amount of secreting surface of these casca must be very great; some of them are ten inches long, and as big round as a tobacco-pipe; they rapidly Portion of the alimentary canal of the Salmon (Sal mo salar), showing one double row of ccecal appendages and the pyloric extremity of the other. a, oesophagus; b, stomach; c, pylorus; d, small intestine; gull-duet. (One-third the natural diameter.) increase in length from the first three down- wards, and the third from the stomach is generally the longest. They then gradually diminish, slightly in calibre, considerably in length, to those furthest down the intestine, which are about three inches long. Altogether the secreting surface of these caeca must con- siderably exceed that of the rest of the ali- mentary canal, and the whole apparatus, taken together, is next to the liver, by far the largest of the viscera. Each doubie row con- tains about thirty, so that altogether there are sixty casca, and as the average length of each caecum is 6£ inches, the whole length of secreting surface must be 390 inches, or upwards of 32 feet. In their internal ultimate structurethese caeca exhibit considerable variety ; in many the mu- cous surface is closely laminated ; in some it is covered with flattened, fused villi with crypts thickly planted between their bases. In the Herring (Jig. 70.) the structure is very peculiar: on looking vertically on the internal surface it is seen to be mapped out into hexagonal and pentagonal cells about yi- of an inch in diameter, very evenly and geo- metrically arranged, and each filled with a mass of epithelium. The septa between them appear to consist of sub- mucous fibrous tissue, and on making a section and looking at it laterally they are seen to project between the acervuli of epithelium, and rather beyond them, and to have no epithe- lial investment of themselves. The masses of epithelium are seen to be of a spheroidal form and very smooth outline, though I could not distinguish any basement membrane or capsule wall of which they might be supposed to be the contents, or any special structure determining their outline. I have thought this structure suffi- ciently peculiar to give a figure of it. A represents the appearance on looking down on the surface; B, a view of the wall in section, seen w ith a lower magnifying power. Many anatomists deny the true pancreatic nature of these pyloric caeca, and assert that many fish pos- sess, over and above them, a true glandular pancreas,analogous in struc- ture to the pancreas of higher animals. Weber first described such an organ in the carp, as interlaced with the lobules of the liver, and, so to speak, confounded with them, but having a proper excretory canal opening into the intestine by the side of the cystic ; he also thought that he had seen traces of a pancreatic duct in the pike. Much more recently Alessan- drini described the same excreting duct, as also the volume and position of the pancreas, in the same fish. In the Silurusglanis MM. Brandt and Ratzebourg have taken for the nan-