25 OVUM. process of generation in which is not fully understood,) nor any intermediate process of gemmation. A few of them, however, ap- pear to become encysted in the parenchyma of organs in their young or undeveloped condition, and some in a form different from the parent, as in the Trichina of the muscles, the so called Filaria of the peritoneal cavity of fishes, and the Vibrio tritici. These en- cysted Nematoidea have not been observed to be possessed of sexual organs *, and they are not known to be multiplied by gemma- tion ; it is probable, therefore that, to attain the place of their full development, they must be subject to migrations from one animal to another, either directly or in other ways, as through water and vegetables. The ova of these animals appear to possess a remarkable tenacity of life, as exhibited by their long and obstinate resistance to the noxious effects of external agents, f The Cystic, Cestoid, and Trematode orders of the Entozoa present a more varied process of generation, the investigation of which has of late years attracted considerable attention, and which has led to most interesting results as to the nature and relations of several forms of these animals, which were previously re- garded as of a most anomalous kind. The Cestoid and Trematode Entozoa have long been known to possess the sexual organs in the hermaphrodite arrangement, and to pro- duce fecundated ova ; while the Cystic En- tozoa have been observed to multiply only without sexual organs, and by a process analogous to gemmation, and their first origin has been till lately involved in the deepest obscurity. We shall presently see that many, if not the whole of them, may be either un- developed or metamorphosed aberrant forms of cestoid or trematode animals. J This view appears first to have been sug- gested by Steenstrup, in connection with his researches on alternate generations § ; and it * See a Memoir by V. Siebold, on the Nonsexual Nematoidea, in Wiegmann's Arehiv, 1838. t Dr. Henry Nelson and I have observed the de- velopment of the ova in Ascaris mystax to proceed for several days, while the parent bodies containing them were immersed in oil of turpentine. X For a notice of the generation of the minute parasitic animalcule called Gregarina, see the pre- vious account of the reproduction of Infusoria.; § See Ray Society's Translation, 1845, p. 100. "It is not unlikely," says Steenstrup, "that in course of time, it may happen with them (Cystic Entozoa), as it has with the whole division of the asexual Trematoda of Siebold, viz. Cercaria, &c, that they must be rejected from the system as being earlier forms of development, or earlier generations of other animals." V. Siebold remarks in a note at p. 157, of his Lehrbueh der Vergleich. Anat. part i. published in 1845, " Here the doubt arises whether the asexual Cystica really deserve to be considered as independent animals. It is very probable that the vesicular worms are undeveloped Cestoids," &c. See also note at p. 111. Von Siebold has developed these views more fully in a recent Mem. in the Zeitsch. fur Wissensch. Zool. July, 1850, translated in the Ann. des Scien. Nat. vol. xv. 1851, p. 177; and in the article Parasites, in Wagner's Handwbr- terbuch der Physiologic E. Blauchard in his Rech. has since been adopted, in somewhat dif- ferent forms, by V. Siebold, Blanchard, Du- jardin, and Van Beneden, and rendered extremely probable by the researches of these and some other observers. Previous to the adoption of this view, helminthologists, looking upon the Cystic Entozoa as dis- tinct and independent animals, were at a loss whether to regard them as ascertained excep- tions to the sexual mode of propagation, or to continue to prosecute their inquiries in the hope of being able to discover a process of generation in them analogous to that prevail- ing in the greater majority of the animal kingdom ; and many were thus misled into the error of searching for ova where noneexistedor were required. Thus Gulliver erroneously de- scribed certain calcareous particles in the mem- brane of Cysticercus as the ova of the animal*, and H. D. Goodsir, in his instructive paper on the production of the young in that animal, and in the other forms of Cystic Entozoa f, failed to distinguish between that which might be merely a process of gemmation and the origin of the embryoes from true ova.J Cystic Entozoa. — The Cystic Entozoa pre- sent themselves in three principal forms, viz. Acephalocyst, Crenurus, and Cysticercus. The two first are usually found as compound or aggregated animals; the last is more fre- quently seen in the single or isolated condition. Some of the vesicular hydatid tumours, constituting the various kinds of so called acephalocysts, have long been known to con- tain small Echinococci floating in the fluid of their interior. Repeated observations have demonstrated the existence of these animals in the acephalocysts ; and it seems very pro- bable that, in the end, it will be necessary to withdraw the distinctions between the various kinds of these cysts, as they will all, by suffi- ciently accurate observation, be found, at some period of their growth, to contain in a more or less complete condition, the small animals of Echinococci, or their remains. $ The Echinococci are produced by non- sexual generation, or by gemination from the membrane of the vesicle, probably from the middle or germinal membrane, as it has been sur l'Organis. des Vers, in Ann. des Scien. Nat. 1847 vol. vii. p. 120. excludes entirely the Cystica from a separate place in the systematic arrangement, bring- ing them under Cestoidea, and affirms decidedly that the distinction between them ought now to cease, as they are shown to be different states of the same animals. He refers to De Blainville as having previously entertained the same view. See also Dujardin, in Annal. des Scien. Nat. for 1813, and Hist. Nat. des Helminthes, 1845; Miescher, Be- nefit lib. die Verhand. der Naturforsch. Gesellsch. in Basel, 1840; and Van Beneden, Ann. des Scien. Nat. 1851, p. 309 ; and a work on the Entozoa, pub- lished at Brussels, in 1850, which I have not seen. * Bled. Chir. Trans, of Lond. vol. xxiv. 1841. j- Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. vol. xv. 1844, and in Anat. and Path. Observations, 1845. J See also Rose, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi. 1848. § See V. Siebold's Report on Zoology, in Ray Society's publications, for 1845 and 1847 ; also Bui- dach's Physiol. B. ii.