639 UTERUS —(Normal Anatomy). of either lip. Within the cervical canal the epithelium changes its form. It has been described here as constantly cylindrical or dentate; but upon all the finer structures here found, such as the filiform papillae, this so-called epithelial covering consists, as Reichert has well described, and Kilian ac- curately represented it, of elementary cells, whose cell membranes are closely united to- gether, having a polyhedral outline, and with- out undergoing such an amount of flattening as to lose their spherical form. They contain a slightly flattened nucleus with several nu- cleoli, surrounded by a clear somewhat thick fluid intermixed with molecular bodies, and sometimes oil globules. Some difference of opinion exists as to the part of the cervical canal in which the epithe- lium first becomes ciliated. Drs. Tyler Smith, anil Hassall, who have examined numerous uteri at an early period after death, with a view to anticipate post-mortem changes, state that the ciliation of the epithelium commences in the rugose portion of the canal, and ex- tends up to the fundus, while the epithelium just within the os, though also cylindrical, is not ciliated.* It should be observed, however, that there is no particular portion of the cer- vical canal in which the membrane constantly becomes rugose, but that the rugosities often extend quite down to the margin of the os. According to Henle f, the cervix is provided with ciliated epithelium from the middle up- wards, and with pavement epithelium from that point downwards. One peculiarity or variety in the arrange- ment of the epithelium upon the vaginal por- tion of the cervix requires special notice here on account of the singular degree of import- ance which has of late years been attached to it, and still more from the remarkable pa- thological speculations to which it has given rise. It occasionally happens that the tessellated epithelium of this part, instead of extending as far as the os, abruptly ceases at a distance of one or two lines from the inner margin of either or both lips, leaving a single or double crescentic patch where the ordinary pave- ment epithelium is replaced by a crop of close- set filiform papilla?, projecting very slightly, if at all, above the general surface, and pre- senting to the touch that velvety feel, and to the eye, on account of their great vascularity, that florid aspect, which has often led to the supposition that this mere morphological va- riety of structure is the result of a pathologi- cal change, and that it constitutes a form of ulcer peculiar to the os uteri. Beneath the epithelium is a basement mem- brane, which, upon the outer portion of the cervix, extends in a smooth lamina over the papillae that everywhere crowd this part, but * Memoir on the Pathology and Treatment of Leucorrhoea, based upon the microscopical anatomy of the os and cervix uteri Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv. 1852. t Allegem. Anatom., p. 24G. within the cervical canal it dips into the furrows and follicles, or covers its numerous rugosities and projections. An unequal layer offibrous tissue, traversed by vessels, and supporting and containing the numerous papilla; and mucous crypts of vari- ous forms and sizes which characterise the cervical mucous membrane, completes this structure. Tough and coriaceous upon the outer portion, and thinner and more delicate within the canal of the cervix, it forms the chief substance of the mucous membrane, and lies immediately upon the muscular coat, the fibres of which become intermingled with it. The papillcc, or villi, as they are sometimes termed, of the cervix, exhibit considerable varieties of size and figure, being conical, verrucose, or tuberculated, dentate, clavate, and filiform. The clavate papillae are usually found fringing the surface and margins of the thinner plicae. The dentate usually form a border to those which are a little more fleshy, and are commonly seen at the margins of the lateral and upper mucous folds. The verru- cose papilla; are seen in various situations, but are most constantly observed in the sharp lateral furrows which constitute the lines of demarcation between the two cervical walls. The filiform papilla; are the finest of all. They are more slender and pointed than the clavate. They occur under two forms, and in two situations. One of these forms is invariably present on the outer or vaginal part of the cervix. The whole of this portion, from the margins of the os outwardly, is covered by numerous short close-set thread-like papillae, invisible to the naked eye, but with the help of a sufficient amplifying power easily distinguished by their white colour, through the somewhat dense layer of pavement epithelium and basement membrane that closely covers and binds them down. Similar papillae clothe the inner sur- face of the vagina, and form, with those just described, a continuous layer. The filiform papillae constituting the second variety are larger and longer than these, so that they may be discerned by the naked eye. They occur usually at the margins of the os, and may be traced to a variable distance within the canal. But their presence here is uncertain, while that of the former variety is constant in the situations indicated. These larger fili- form papillae may be sometimes seen to form the terminations of the longitudinal cervical plica? in those cases where parallel folds run down to the very margins of the os uteri. Here the folds, each ending in a little tuft or tassel, form by their junction a close-set crop of villi, which may merely border one or both lips with a narrow fringe, or form a velvetty patch extending outwardly upon the lips of the cervix, and being here uncovered by the ordinary dense epithelial layer of this region, which, as just stated, sometimes, terminates at this spot with an abrupt margin, they may present the appearance already described as simulating an ulcer. Regarding the minute structure and composi-