232 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). servations for the grounds on which an opinion may be formed. 53. The fifth and last variety of reproductive organ mentioned above, is the basidium. The Mushrooms, along with another group of Fungi, which is distinguished by the possession of loculate receptacles, each loculus of which is lined with a hymenium, as e.g. Lycoperdon, include nearly all of the genera in which it occurs, and form Leveille's order, Basidio- sporeae. The order is a very natural one, and between it, and any of those which are most closely related to it, we can find no intermediate forms which at present might serve as guides in comparing the reproductive organs of the one with those of the other. The basidiospore is distinguished from all the other acrogenous forms (stylospores, sper- matia), by well-marked and easily-defined characters—viz. first, by its much greater complexity of structure ; and, secondly, by the very peculiar and uniform arrangement, according to which the spores are developed in fours at the summits of the basidia. Second Part. Higher Cryptogamia and Phanerogamia. 54. In the attempt which we have made in the preceding sections to discover the order of succession in which nature has arranged the various families included among the Algae, Fungi, and Lichens, we have en- countered difficulties at every step. The extension of the same inquiry to the higher Cryptogamia and Phanerogamia is much more satisfactory in its results. " The comparison of the history of the development of the leafy Mosses and Hepaticse on the one hand, and of the Equisetaceae, Rhizocarpeae, and Lycopodiaeeae on the other," says Hofmeister, " has shown the most complete correspondence of the formation of the fruit of the one with the formation of the embryo of the other. The archegonium of the Mosses, the organ within which the rudiment of the fruit (Fruchtanlage) is formed, has a structure altogether similar to that of the archegonium of the Ferns (in the widest sense) — to that part of the prothallium in whose interior the embryo of the frond-bearing plant originates, In both of these large groups of the higher Cryptogamia, we have a single cell, originating freely within the larger central cell of the archegonium, by the constantly repeated divi- sions of which, in the Mosses, the fruit—in the Ferns, the leafy plant, takes its origin. In both cases the division of this cell fails to take place, and the archegonium aborts, if the spermatic filaments (Saamenfaden) do not reach it at the moment that its summit gives way.'' * 55. The higher Cryptogamia and Phanero- * Hofmeister, Vergleiehenrte Untersuchungen der Keimung, Entfaltnng u. Fruchtbildung hdherer Cryptogamen. p. 139. Leipzig, 1851. gamia form a series, which, commencing with the frondose or membranous Hepaticae, ascends through the Jungermanniae and Marchantite to the true Mosses. At this point, the thread is interrupted, but is easily resumed, and fol- lowed through the Ferns and Lycopodiaceae to the Rhizocarpeae. Between these last and the Phanerogamiae, there is again an interval of obscurity, which is succeeded in the latter by a new order of phenomena. The plants belonging to the series before us are charac- terised by their displaying a regular alternation of two generations which differ widely in their organisation. Of these, the first, taking its origin from the germinating spore, develops two kinds of organs, the reproductive func- tions of which are complementary to each other. One of these (archegonium) is destined for the reception of a germ-cell, while the other (antheridium) sets free a number of cor- puscles closely resembling the antherozoids of Chara, which have been already described. It is from this germ-cell that the second gene- ration commences its existence ; its develop- ment being, as there is now every reason to believe, dependent on the actual contact of the antherozoids. It differs completely in form and structure from its parent, and pos- sesses only one kind of reproductive organ. This organ throws off' germs (spores), each of which is capable, independently of any ex- ternal influences, except those of heat and moisture, of transforming itself into a new individual. This in its turn produces pistillidia and antlieridia, and thus forms the starting point of a new development. 56. Supposing the history of the develop- ment of the plants under consideration to com- mence with the germination of the spore, and terminate with its arrival at maturity, it may be divided into two periods. Of these the first is completed in the full development of the archegonia and pistillidia, and the com- bination of their products, so as to form an embryo; while the second terminates in the full development and distribution of the spores. 57. Among the lower Hepaticae, the vegeta- tive system (frond) consists of a simple mem- branous expansion, which may be considered equivalent to what would result from the soldering or fusing together of the leaves and stem of a more highly developed plant. The frond is of various forms — always originally linear, and lengthens at one (the anterior) extremity only. At the other end, which is earliest formed, cessation of vegetation, and marcescence are constantly taking place. The adult plant assumes very various forms, which arise from the repeated bifurcation of the original riband-shaped shoot. In the plant, the development of which we are about to describe (Anthoceros laevis) as one of the most simple of the Hepaticae in its structures, the fully-formed frond is a lobed expansion of succulent, dark-green parenchyma, the general contour of which is circular. We shall divide the history of its development into two periods, corresponding with those laid down in the last paragraph.