REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum) 230 of elements : first, the paraphi/scs, which are linear, elaviform filaments, composed of from Fie. 152. Section of fruitful thallus of Sticta puhnonacca, about 20 diam. u, discoid apotheciuni. The vertical lines indicate the lamina proligera; s, spermogonia containing spermatia; i, empty spermogonia. six to eight cylindrical cells, joined end to end; and secondly, the thecce, which are obovate vesicles, each containing, almost in- variably, eight spores. These elements are arranged side by side, their long diameters being perpendicidar to the surface of the apotheciuni. They appear to be glued toge- ther, even in the fully formed apothecia, by an intermediary gelatinous substance, which, however, there is good reason for supposing to be nothing more than a thickening of the external membrane, from which it cannot be distinguished, either in respect of its chemical or other characters. Iodine colours this substance, as well as the external mem- branes of thecae and paraphyses, blue, without the addition of sulphuric acid. In the early condition, the cavities of the thecae are occupied by a yellow, plastic material, out of which the spores are afterwards formed. The thickness of the external starchy mem- brane is at this period relatively more consi- derable than later ; as the spores increase in size, it gradually diminishes. The struc- ture o( the fully formed spore is best ob- served in those species in which it is largest. The spore-membrane, of considerable pro- portional thickness, is smooth and semi- transparent, wholly unaltered by iodine and sulphuric acid. The contents consist partly of mucous granules, which are coloured brown by iodine, partly of yellowish oil globules. The whole is usually invested, even after its escape from the theca, with the still adherent remains of the inner proto- plasmic layer, by which it was immediately surrounded. In form, the spores are most frequently ellipsoid and unilocular. In other instances, however, they are divided by one or more partitions. This division is either complete, so that the spore resembles two obovate cells joined by their larger ends ; or incomplete, the septa being in some cases scarcely distinguishable from the protoplasmic contents of the central cavity. 47. The spores are discharged from the thecas with an elastic force often sufficient to project them to a considerable height above the surface of the apotheciuni; a fact, which M. Tulasne seems to have shown to be dependent on the great capability of imbibing moisture possessed by the lamina proligera, which mucli exceeds that of the tissue imme- diately subjacent. It resembles altogether what is observed in the Pezizas, whose spores, it is well known, are projected with such force as to form a cloud above the receptacle. 48. We have next to notice the remarkable organs which Itzigsohn* described as the antheridia of the Lichens, and to which he was the first to assign a distinct function. They had been previously adverted to by several botanists, and had been usually considered as parasitical Pyrenomycetes, which they closely resemble. They consist of conceptacles em - bedded below the upper surface of the thallus ; their presence is revealed by the appearance of blackish, projecting points, scattered at irregular intervals. The form of these organs, Fig. 153. Spermogonia of Scutula Walirothii, The spermatia are seen escaping from the apicial aperture of the organ. 150 diam. in numbers which MM. Tulasne have named spermo- goniae, is globular, ellipsoid, or oblong. Their external envelope is frequently hard and crustaceous, and usually blackish. The cavity may be simple or multiple ; in the latter case all the compartments or sinuses open at one ostiole. The whole of the cavity is occupied by a filamentous tissue, which consists of two elements—viz., spermatia and the organs on which they are supported. The latter are simple or branched filaments, which are usu- ally undivided, but occasionally jointed. They originate from the inner surface of the con- ceptacles. At their summits and articulations, they bear the spermatia, which are straight or curved linear organs of great tenuity, and are motionless. They are coloured brown by iodine ; both the spermatia and filaments are embedded in an abundant mucilage ; many of the former are sterile, and are so long that they project beyond the opening of the con- ceptacle like a kind of cirrhus. The whole structure corresponds in every respect with that of the spermatia-bearing conceptacles of the Discomycetes and Pyrenomj cetes. 49. To a third variety of conceptacle, MM. Tulasne have assigned the title of pyenidis, This organ, although it has only been ob- served in two genera, Abrothallus and Scutula, * Bot. Zeitung. 1850. S. 913.