IGO PELVIS. the latter pelvic type, which approaches in general form to the pelvis of the Jerboa, just considered. The sacrum of the Wombat is very flat, and strong, and broad, in correspondence with the general squat and massy skeleton of the animal (see Jigs. 102. and 108. Art. Marsu- pialia). Its curve is a continuation of that of the dorsal and lumbar vertebra?. The number of sacral vertebras is seven, and the transverse processes are separated from each other, the three upper of which are long and strong, and are articulated by their tips to the ilia. The facet on the extremity of the first looks upward and outward, and that on the second, on the contrary, downward and outward, and form projections which impinge upon the iliac facet. This arrangement in the Wombat like that in the Tapir, is closely ana- logous to the formation of the sacral "joggles," and the alteration of the inclination of the sacral wedge in Man, at the point of the auri- cular surface opposite the second sacral piece, substituting for upward, backwards, and for downward, forwards, a change consequent on the difference between the prone and erect positions. Caudal pieces are numerous. The ilia are comparatively short and ex- panded considerably, and are curved out- wards in a remarkably strong, broad, hook- like process at the anterior superior spine. They are placed very obliquely on the spine, being at an angle of 160° with the lumbar portion of the great dorsal curvature. The ischia are thick, long, and massy, and in a right line with the ilia. They have cu- riously bifurcated tuberosities, one tubercular projection turning inward, and the other longer, curving outward, in another remark- able and strong hook-like process, to which formation we have before remarked a tendency in the Hare and other Rodents (Jig. 98. e). These processes, like those on the ilia, afford a powerful hold and leverage to the strong muscles of the hinder extremities, much used by the animal in its burrowing habits. These hook-like processes of the ischia are formed by a Y-shaped apophysis analogous to that of the tuberosity in man. The pubes are short and thick ; and the symphysis is parallel to the spine, very long, and joined in very ex- tensively by the vertically directed rami of the ischia. The marsupial bones of the Wombat are long, flat, rounded and expanded at their free extre- mities, and articulated to the anterior border of the pubes in the position of the crests by two articular facets separated by an arched interval. Tlio-pectineal spines are present, and of large size. The whole pelvis of the Wombat is large and massy, though the openings and outlets are proportionally very small. It has a flattened appearance antero-posterioily, so that the anterior outlet has its greatest diameter trans- versely placed. In the Myrmccobius fasciatus this flattened appearance of the pelvis is still more remark- able. In the Opossums, Perameles, and Pha- langers, there is but one sacral vertebra, which, in the Phalangista Cookii, is ankylosed to the last lumbar vertebra. The pelvis of the Thylacinus Cynocephalus approaches closely in many respects to the type of the Carnivora, like many of the peculiarities of this animal. The sacrum pre- sents no angle ; the ilia are massy, somewhat short, and less oblique than those of the Wombat : the ischia are also short and thick, and are placed at an open angle (170°) with the ilia, while the pubes are short and di- rected almost horizontally inwards, making an antero-postcrior angle with the ilia as little as 115°. The whole appearance of the pelvis is massy, with small openings. It has neither the oblique appearance and exaggerated pro- cesses of the Wombat, nor the elongation and wide outlets of the Kangaroo, while its well- marked ilio-pubic angle contrasts much with both, and shows a strong similarity to the Carnivora. In the Kangaroos, the sacrum is in the line of the lumbar curve, and differs in little but size and breadth from the preceding vertebrae. There are two sacral vertebras, articulating with the ilia, their transverse processes being long and coalesced, but the spinous processes distinct. In the Potoroo there is one only, with large lateral processes. The caudal vertebras are numerous and very strong, and their upper normal spines encroach much on the diameter of the pelvic cavity and posterior outlet. The ilia have short, strong, and pris- matic shafts as in the Rodents, with alas of the same shape, much elongated and turned out- wards, though in a much less degree than in the Wombat, and terminating in narrow clubbed crests (Jig. 99. g). There is a rudimentary inferior anterior spine (h). The upper part of the iliac wing projects much on the dorsal aspect of the spinal column, forming with it an angle of 140° (see Jig. 112. 9.). The ischia are very long, broad, and strong, and have much-expanded tuberosities with an outward curvature (fig. 99. e). These are united in a median symphysis by a single V-shaped epi- physis (c), divided, in the adult, oy a suture from the ischia. The tuberosities support also another epiphysis on each side posteriorly at e, the anterior ischial rami being almost deficient. The ilia and ischia are very nearly in a direct line. The pubes are moderately long, slender, and directed much downward, so as to give to the anterior outlet a triangular shape, with the base at the broad sacrum, and the apex at the pubic symphysis. The ilio-pubic angle is 135°. The marsupial bones (a, b ) are smaller, rounder, and more curved externally than in the Wombat. Their free extremities are tuber- culated and not flattened, and they are articu- lated to the pubic crest near the symphysis by a single facet only, the inner, the position of the outer one being marked by a slight tubercle (/;). The ilio-pectineal spines (d) are very large, for the attachment of powerful psoas muscles. The direction of the ischio-pubic symphysis