184 PELVIS. of the sacrum is more open than usual. Thus is constituted another variety of funnel-shaped pelvis, caused mainly by the gradually nar- rowing of antero-posterior diameters, instead of the lateral, as in the masculine pelvis be- fore described. In the King's College Museum are the pelvis and spine of a female, well exemplifying this deformity (see fig. 116.). The spine is affected by a rickety curve, the greatest extent of which is about the 6th, 7th and 8th dorsal Fig. 116. Oblong pelvic deformity. (From a preparation in tlie Museum of King's College.") vertebrae (a), directed backwards to a great extent, and somewhat to the left side, with a compensatory curve to the right, at the junc- tion of the lumbar with the dorsal vertebra? (b). The lower lumbar vertebra? and sacral promontory are twisted considerably towards the left side, and dragged backwards, the sacral promontory being also considerably raised up- wards (c). The pelvis is of exceedingly large general capacity, and otherwise well formed, showing evidently, by the preponderance of the conjugate diameter and appearance of the sacrum, the effect of the deformed spine upon it. The conjugate diameter of the brim measures as much as 5 and a half inches ; the transverse 5A inches. At the outlet, the distance between the tuberosities is only 3-| inches, and the sub-pubic angle 75°; but, from an unfortunate deficiency of the lower end of the sacrum, the antero-posterior diameter cannot be measured. In the same Museum there is a young male adult skeleton in which this form of pelvis is also well shown. It, also, is coexistent with, and dependant on, a backward cur- vature and shortening of the spine, and ex- tensive ankylosis of the vertebras in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The lumbar ver- tebrae are inclined much backward, so as to drag in the same direction upon the upper end of the sacrum ; while the upper dorsal vertebrae incline forward, so as to bring the 1st dorsal over the centre of the pelvic circle. There is, in this case.no lateral deviation of the spinal column. The tibiae and fibulae have an inward curve, indicating the existence of a softened rickety state of the bones at an early period of life. In the Hunterian collection of pathological specimens is a young adult pelvis, numbered 3-420, presenting the same kind of deformity, accompanying the same kind of backward angular curvature and ankylosis of the bodies of the vertebra? at the same place — viz. the junction of the last dorsal and 1st lumbar. The 1st dorsal vertebra, in this skeleton, likewise occupies a position above the centre of the pelvic opening. The upper end of the sacrum is dragged backwards by the inclined lumbar vertebrae so as to increase the con- jugate diameter of the brim to 4| inches. The lower end of the sacrum is tilted forward so as to bring the tip of the coccyx to within a short distance of the ischial spines. The cotylo-sacral arch is stretched out, and the transverse diameter of the brim reduced to 4 inches only. The acetabula are directed more downwards than usual, and the right iliac wing is pressed outwards by the 9th and 10th ribs, which rest on it, and the venter completely flattened out. I find that Rokitansky has met with in- stances of this oblong deformity of the pelvis, coexisting with backward angularity of the spine. In cases of backward angular curvature low down the spine, especially where there is no lateral deviation, there will be a tendency to production of this form of pelvis, especially if the bones be somewhat softened, as they usually are in these cases; and al- though such cases of pelvic distortion are, as far as I have seen, more common in the male, yet the same cause occasionally produces this effect upon the female pelvis, and may produce obstruction during parturition, not only by the contraction of the antero-posterior diameter at the outlet, but even at the brim, by the diminution of its transverse diameter. An acute angle in the lower part of the sacral cwwmay also produce this contraction of the inferior pelvic outlet. When this exists singly, the elevation of the coccyx is more considerable than usual, and the axis of the in- ferior plane directed more backwards. This bending upwards of the apex of the sacrum is, however, most usually seen in connection with more general pelvic deformity, and is some- times accompanied by ankylosis of the sacro- coccygeal joint. In a case recorded by Mr. Bell, the antero- posterior diameter of the inferior outlet was contracted to half-an-inch only, and in one of Naegele's, it was even less than this, in both entirely precluding delivery. In so great a contraction, the sacral bend must have been unusually great, or the lower end of that bone tilted forward in the manner just de- scribed.