17 OVUM. of these animals in the zoological system than that which has hitherto been followed. Most Naturalists are now disposed to separate from the true Polypina the Bryozoa, or so-called Ciliobrachiate Polypes, which, though pre- senting a considerable resemblance to the Polypes in their external anthoid appearance, yet approach much more nearly to the Tu- nicated Acephalous Mollusca by their internal organisation; and remarkable affinities have been pointed out between some of the Poly- pina and Acalepha;, which show that these classes, though very dissimilar in their external forms and mode of life, are in reality very closely allied in structure. The greater number of the Polypina are ag- gregate or compound animals, that is, consist naturally of groups of individuals united or associated together on a common stem and branches, or on a more solid stock. But the common fresh water Polype, or Hydra, and the various Actinias of the sea coast, are, to a certain extent, exceptions to this general rule, and, as we shall see, differ also in regard to their mode of reproduction from most of the other families of this division of animals. The Actinia is usually a single animal: no doubt it is multiplied occasionally by buds, but these are thrown off and become developed usually in an isolated position. The Hydra sometimes occurs as a single animal, but more frequently during summer, and when well nourished, as a compound one ; the multiple individuals being developed by gemmation from the first or principal stock, and also themselves forming younger progenies by budding; but the indi- viduals so formed on the Hydra generally Fig. 10. Hydra viridis in different stages of extension and contraction, reproducing gemmiparousty, attached to the roots of duck-weed. (From lloesel.) separate from the parent stock when they have attained to maturity, migrate, and esta- blish themselves as independent animals, to form new buds. Both of these animals are capable of pro- pagation by ova formed in the sexual way : in Actinia this seems to be the more common mode of its multiplication, the ova being fecundated and developed within the body of Sup p. the hermaphrodite parent; but in Hydra it would appear that it is principally in the au- tumn, on the approach of cold weather, that the sexual mode of propagation is substituted Fig. 11. Hydra viridis. a, Hydra of autumn, bearing an ovum, o, and two spermatic capsules, s, s. b, spermatic capsule burst artificially, snowing spermatozoa. c (from Laurent), ova with young Hydra in various stages of development hanging out of them. d, jV (from Laurent), portions of the body of summer Hydra, with a bud sprouting. i>, the ear- liest ; d', more advanced, showing the texture to be the same as the rest of the body. c