REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 254 to the axis of the frond. This is followed on each side by transverse, and afterwards by Fig. 200. Vertical section of floor of gem-pouch of £,unularia, 50 diam. The club-shaped rudiments of the gems are attached by their bases to the superficial layer of cells, which are much smaller than those upon which they are supported. vertical septa, which last are parallel to it. Hence results a bilateral organ, the surfaces of Fig. 201. Mode of origin of the gem. Two of the cells of the superficial layer are seen more highly magnified. The membrane of each has grown out into a nipple; in one the vertical septum can be distinguished. 400 diam. which are at right angles to the axis of the frond. Its form is at first that of a flattened Fig. 202. a flattened rudiment of the gem viewed laterally. Division of the second cell of the rudiment by a vertical septum, on each side of which the com- mencements of several transverse septa are mo- delled out in the protoplasma. 400 diam. b, the same at a later stage, 250 diam. club : afterwards, as it becomes larger, two notches are formed on each of its lateral margins, which exactly resemble those of the anterior margin of the young Frond. As soon as its development is completed—that is, when it has attained a length of about £ of a line, it is pushed out of the receptacle by its rapidly growing successors. If, after its expulsion, it is sown on a damp surface, a new growth at once commences in two opposite directions, in a line which is at right angles to its axis. At the same time the cells of the inferior sur- face grow out into nipple-shaped projections, which soon become filamentous roots,and the whole is transformed intoariband-shaped frond. The organ, the development of which is de- Fig. 203. Outline of gem as observed two or three days after it has been sown, 50 diam. In its inferior margin is a notch which indicates its point of attachment to the floor of the gem- pouch. The other two notches, one on each side, are the points of growth of the young plant into which the gem is transformed: they resemble those which are described (§ 58.) in the margins of the young frond of Anthoceros. It is remark- able that the line of direction of growth of the young plant is at right angles both to that of the gem itself, and to that of the parent plant. scribed above, receives, in common with others of a different nature, the name of " gem." The whole process differs widely from that of true gemmation or " rejuvenescence " of an old cell, in order that its primordial vesicle may be transformed into an embryo. This distinction is well illustrated in the gemmation of Anthoceros ; the primordial sac of a cell of the parenchyma of the frond, the position of which is undetermined, contracts and secretes on its surface a new cellulose membrane. The new cell is converted by repeated division into the rudiment of a young frond, which, as it grows, breaks through the tissue of the parent. In Jungermannia bivaricata, we have observed a similar process. A single cell of the leaf of a marcescent, last year's stem, is seen still to contain a primordial vesicle, lined with green protoplasm. This forms around itself a new cell, which divides by a septum, the direc- tion of which is transverse in relation to that of the first growth. One of the resulting cells grows out so as to project through, or carry before it, the membrane of the old cell. This divides by a septum inclined obliquely to the former, which is succeeded by another, inclined in the opposite direction, and so on alternately. Hence results the rudimentary stem of a new plant. Both of the preceding are examples of gemmation. The very distinct analogies in development (homologies) which present themselves among the higher plants, are exhibited in the following table. The six last vertical columns represent the principal groups, w hich follow each other in the same order as in the preceding pages. In the two first columns are indicated those more partial analogies which may be traced between the higher plants, on the one hand, and the Alga?, Fungi, and Lichens on the other.