480 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. nails, which has already been described as occurring in the spines of the porcupine. On the surface of the feather-pulp a series of ridges are developed, running pretty nearly parallel with one another from an an- tero-posterior groove upon the upper surface, which marks the position of the future shaft, to a line parallel with that groove upon the under surface or the process, which is called the raphe. These ridges, therefore, hound as many grooves which branch off from the medio-dorsal groove, becoming gradually shal- lower, to the raphe. These secondary grooves, as they might be termed, how- ever, are not themselves simple ; their walls, the ridges, being again produced into short parallel laminae, and therefore giving rise to tertiary grooves, branching off from the secondary ones. Now, the whole surface of the matrix being covered by an ecderonic layer in process of conversion into the cor- tical and medullary substances of the fea- ther, the primary groove becomes filled by the end of the shaft ; the secondary grooves by the terminal barbs, the tertiary grooves by their barbules, while the processes appear to be outgrowths from these. Were all this conical horny cap to remain entire, the result would be a very complex sort of porcupine's quill ; instead of this, however, it breaks up along the line of each ridge, and so we have a feather. The extremity of the feather being thus con- stituted, how is its remaining length developed ? According to Reichert, the whole pulp elon- gates, and as fast as a portion of the feather is completed, the corresponding segment of the pulp dries up, constituting for the vane what has been called the inner striated membrane (e'). However, I believe that this is not the case, the inner striated membrane being, like the outer, a mass of cornified cells detached from the surface of the pulp, just as we shall see the pith of the shaft to be, though this has been also declared by Reichert to be dried- up pulp. I believe that the growth of the feather, on the other hand, resembles that of the hairs and nails; viz. the extremity as it is finished, is pushed up by the growth of the base, the pulp only supplying materials from its surface; and I account for the inner stri- ated membrane by supposing that a compara- tively imperfect development of horny cell membranes takes place from that surface of the pidp which would otherwise be left bare, when the terminal cone or plume of the feather is pushed away. When the development of the shaft has gone on in this manner for a longer or shorter time, according to the length of the feather, a change takes place. The pri- mary groove, which has gradually widened with the width of the shaft (to the exclusion of the secondary grooves, which gradually shorten and ultimately disappear) becoming shallower, extends all round the pulp, and the formation of medullary feather substance ceases, that of cortical substance alone remaining. Thus is the hollow (mill formed, and its edges, not quite closing above, leave the minute um- bilical aperture by which the inner striated membrane is continued into the " pith "of the quill. This pith is produced by the throwing off of successive transverse horny partitions from the apex of the pulp, as the quill is pushed beyond it; thus protecting itself from the air admitted by the umbilical aperture, and which is visible, occupying the chambers thus formed (jig. 316. g). A full description of the various forms of feathers is given in the article Aves in a former portion of this work, to which the reader is referred. There can be no question as to the relations of the integumentary organs hitherto described to the primary constituents of the integuments, but it is different with regard to those cal- cified tegumentary appendages, the scales of Fishes, and the so-called "dermal'''' calcified plates of Reptilia and Mammalia. One point is quite certain with regard to these append- ages, that they are not, like the calcified shells of themollusca, the representatives of the outer portion of the originally cellular epidermis (are not therefore comparable to the " cuticula" of a plant), inasmuch as the latter may always,in their young state, be traced over them. It is for this reason, I imagine, that they are at present ordinarily called " dermal" organs. A truly dermal or enderonic organ, however, ought, if it continues to grow, to re- tain the same characters as the enderon of which it forms a part. It ought, therefore, to have its protomorphic surface external and to grow exogenous]}'. Now, no scale or [date of any fish, so far as I am aware, does this ; on the other hand, it holds good of all, whether Placoid, Ganoid, Cycloid or Ctenoid*, that they commence by the occurrence of acalcfiic deposit immediately beneath the cellular ecderon, and that they increase by continual addition to the inner surface of this primary deposit. There are two ways in which we may conceive that these scales and plates are produced. Either they are a gradual calcifi- cation of the whole enderon from without inwards (which is the view taken by Leydig, of the scales of Polypterus), in which case the only tissue of the enderon capable of increase (that of the protomorphic line) being arrested by the calcareous deposit, the whole enderon at these parts must cease to grow, which would appear to be contrary to tact ; or the scale corresponds with the cork-layer of the vegetable integument, and like it, though developed beneath the ordinary cellular epi- dermis, is still a truly ecderonic structure. A great deal might be said for both these views; and if in this place, I assume the latter to be more correct, it is because I think we must be guided by the homology of the scales with certain other organs, where these rela- tions are more definitely expressed. It may be taken as certain, I think, that the scales, plates, and spines of all fishes are homologous organs ; nor as less so that the tegumentary spines of the Piagiostomes are homologous with their * And I believe it will be found to be equally true of the " dermal" bones of reptiles and mammals.