454 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. tinctly tubular character also ; in those of the 3rd, 4th, and 7th, the double contour is more Fig, 301. From the Gasserian ganglion of the same animal as the preceding figure, a, portion of ganglion with corpuscles in situ; h, three corpuscles included within a single capsule; c, ganglionic corpuscles freed from their capsules; d, nerve-tubes connected with the ganglion. or less distinctly visible. The optic nerve con- sists of fine tubular fibres mingled with small round or oval bodies. The nerve-fibres in the brachial plexus also present the character of perfect tubular fibres ; they are narrower than in the adult animal. So also the fibres in the trunk of the pneumogastric; throughout the entire extent of the trunk of this nerve, in the neck and upper part of the thorax, there were embedded amongst its fibres ganglionic corpuscles similar in their character to those occurring in the ganglia of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Sometimes a single corpuscle lay imbedded in a bundle of nerve-fibres ; in other parts two were seen, one situated above the other; and in some parts there were as many as six, all arranged close together in linear series ; some of them were seen to give off a nerve-tube at one extremity ; and once or twice the corpuscle was seen to be connected with two such, one passing towards the centre, the other in the direction of the peri- phery. The main cord of the sympathetic appears to be entirely composed of fibres presenting the nuclear character, similar to those already described in connection with its ganglia, and representing an early stage of the development of the cerebro-spinal nerve-fibres. Addition of dilute solution of soda brings into view a few tubular nerve-fibres similar to those in the spinal nerves. The splanchnic nerves present the same structure as the cord of the sympathetic, containing a few tubular nerve- fibres, but being chiefly composed of the other structures. In one of the nerve-filaments from the surface of the right ventricle of the heart, Fig. 302. A, nerve fibres from the brachial plexus of a Calf 18 inches long. b. a, nerve-fibres from the sympa- thetic cord in the thorax ; b, the same treated with dilute solution of soda, showing the presence of tubular nerve-fibres, 11, similar to those in the cerebro-spinal nerves. there were no tubular nerve-fibres present; it consisted entirely of structures similar to those already described. As regards the communi- cating branches, all of them contained more or fewer tubular nerve-fibres ; some appeared to be entirely composed of these, while others consisted chiefly of the partially-developed nerve-fibres. The difference in point of struc- ture between the fibres in the cerebro-spinal nerves and those occurring in the sympathetic is at this period of embryonic life very re- markable : while the former present for the most part the tubular character of the per- fectly-formed nerve-tube, the latter appear to consist of a mass of blastema with numerous granular nuclei imbedded in it, corresponding, in short, to the fibres of the cerebro-spinal system in the foetus measuring 6 to 8 inches in length. This also applies, though perhaps in a less degree, to the ganglia of the sympa- thetic as compared with those on the cerebro- spinal nerves, the latter being more fully developed, both as regards their ganglionic corpuscles and nerve-fibres, than the former. As regards the further development of the nerve-fibres of the sympathetic, it would ap- pear, from the observations of Volkmann and Bidder, that they undergo little further change during the whole period of embryonic life.