OVUM. [100] g enus was not entirely homogeneous, but was marked through its thickness with fine lines set perpendicularly to the surface. Vogt observed a similar structure, and described it more fully in the Salmonidae.* More recently attention has been particularly called to it by the fuller description of the structure of the egg cover- ings in the Perca fluviatilis by Professor Miiller of Berlin. In this fish Miiller described the radiated lines as produced by fine tubes which pierce the whole thickness of the ex- ternal membrane, beginning with cup or funnel- shaped dilatations on the exterior, preserving a nearly equal diameter throughout, and ter- minating on the inner surface, f The tubes have a slight spiral winding as they pass through. That they are really hollow tubes Midler ascertained by finding that he was able to press portions of the coloured oily contents of the yolk through them. Miiller farther ob- served, that in the perch each tube is set in a small prism, which terminates by a hexagonal end on the outer surface. According to Dr. Fig. 67 *. Part of the ovarian ovtim of the Salmon. Semi-diagrammatic view of the section of a por- tion of the yolk, porous membrane and external layer of cells in an ovarian ovum of the salmon of 3V m diameter, a, portion of the yolk substance showing the various granules, granular and nu- cleated corpuscles, and oil globules composing it; h, section of the porous or dotted external mem- brane ; c, portion of the outer surface of the same turned towards the observer so as to show the punctated or dotted marking produced by the ex- ternal apertures of the fine canals which run through the membrane ; d, the flat surfaces of the nucleated cells (epithelial or granular) which line the ovi- capsule, between which and h they are seen edge- ways lying close along the outer surface of the dotted membrane; a granular or dotted appearance in the contents of these cells seems to indicate their conversion into the dotted membrane, which is pro- bably formed in successive layers from the exterior. The diameter of these cells is j±0", that of their nuclei 33y/. * Embryoge'nie des Saumons, Neufchatel, 1842. t Midler's Archiv. for 1854, p. 186. Ransom's observations, however, it appears that the structure described by Miiller in the perch is peculiar to that fish, and belongs only to an outer covering superadded to the surface of the dotted membrane, which last resembles in all respects that of other fishes. This outer covering appears to be of cellular origin; and Dr. Ransom thinks it may be due to the separation of the tunica granulosa along with the ovum. The diameter of these tubes in the perch is about 10^uo". In most other fishes the fine lines which ap- pear to be tubular are much smaller. I have observed them in several fishes, and have rarely found more than ten of these tubes in the breadth of ^r^'', and the tubes them- selves or double lines bounding them were not more than ^s^^" or 3UU'0U// in breadth. In looking at the flat surface of the membrane the ends of these tubes give the appearance of a finely dotted structure to the membrane. It is quite possible, however, even where they are finest, to perceive the circle or lumen of the tube by using a high magnifying power; and I have thought that I could also in the salmon perceive a hexagonal marking of the intervals between the pores (see 68 * d); but in this fish the size of the pores is only a third of that of the tubes in the perch as described by Miiller, and the structure must be of a different kind accord- ing to Ransom's observation. All recent ob- servers have recognised this structure in the external membrane of the fish's ovum. Miiller conceived that the tubes he had observed in the perch might be connected with the intro- duction of the spermatozoa into the ovum ; but Dr. Ransom does not find these tubes to pass entirely through the outer membrane of the perch's ovum, and has observed that the part of the true vitelline or dotted membrane which admits the spermatozoa is destitute of the additional layer ; and it will immediately be shown that in all fishes a special and more direct passage for the admission of these bodies through the dense membrane is provided, con- stituting the second peculiarity of structure in the covering of the Fish's ovum before re- ferred to. The interesting discovery of an aperture in the external membrane of the ovum of osseous fishes is due to Dr. Ransom of Nottingham, who observed it first in two species of Stickle- back or Gasterosteus, and afterwards in other fishes. This author made the farther interest- ing observation in the first-mentioned fish, that in impregnation the spermatozoa entered the ovum only through this aperture or mi- cropyle. As this is the first instance in which the existence of this aperture and its relation to the process of fecundation have been ascertained by direct observation in a vertebrate animal, I will describe it more fully from Dr. Ransom's paper to the Royal So- ciety of London*, and from farther inform- ation which he has obligingly furnished to me in private. I may also mention that I have fully confirmed Ransom's observations as to * Proceedings of Roy. Soc. 1854, Nov. 23rd.