222 REPRODUCTION, VEGE "ABLE (Vegetable Ovum). is composed of little bunches of hyaline cells, which are arranged round a central axis, Fig. 139. Antheridia of Griffithsia, 30 diam. a, a kind of involucre is formed by a whorl of six verticillate branchlets, at the points of bifurcation of each of which is borne an antheridium; b, terminal tuft from surface of antheridium, along with a few of the hyaline vesicles, 300 diam. (Thuret). formed of larger cells placed end to end. At the junctions of these, smaller branches are given out, upon which the hyaline cells are sessile. These last possess a diameter of about TJ„o °f an inch- From the above details it will be seen that great difficulties lie in the way of a comparison between the reproductive organs of the Flo- ridece and those of other families. Na'geli considers them to present a strong analogy ■with those of the Hepaticas, with which he places the Floridese in a parallel position. We shall see, as we advance, how little ground there is for such a view. The Florideae are trioecious plants: the tetraspores, polyspores, and antheridia being never found together in one individual. 24. CharacecB. — Although we are well ac- quainted with the structure of the reproductive organs of the Characece, we are, as yet, able to perceive only subordinate relations between them and those of other plants. These organs are of two kinds; the one being destined to the production of a germ, the other to that of antherozoids. The former is an oblong oval body, which is placed at the junction of two segments of the articulate tubular stem. It consists of an oval germ-cell, invested by two envelopes. The outer of these is remarkable for the arrangement of the five tubular cells of which it is formed, which are twisted spirally round the central parts, and form by their ends, at the summit, a crown of five teeth. The germination of Chara has been ob- served and described by Vaucher.* The de- velopment of the germ, which ripens in autumn, does not take place until spring. It * Vaucher, Mem. Soc. Hist. Nat. de Geneve, torn. i. consists in the budding out of the central cell at its apex so as to form a single tubular stalk, just as in the lower Algae. 25. The antheridium of Chara is an orange- red, and globular body, which is attached to the stem immediately below the germ-producing organ. It consists of eight concave, rectan- gular valves, joined at their edges so as to form a hollow sphere. At each suture there is a partition, which is directed to the centre of the sphere ; while from the centre of each valve there springs a cylindrical cell, the axis of which is perpendicular to its inner surface, so that each cell approaches the centre of the sphere by its extremity. The whole anthe- ridium is supported by a ninth cylindrical cell, which is inserted by its base into the stem of the plant, and passing up between the corners of the four inferior valves, approaches the other eight cylindrical cells at the centre. From the extremities of the nine cells, there emanate a number of flexible tubes, which are Fig. 140. a, flexible tubes from antheridium of Chara. From most of the segments the antherozoids have escaped; two are in the act of escaping: b, fully formed antherozoids. 400 diam. (Thuret.) divided by transverse partitions into a number of segments. In each segment or cavity an antherozoid is contained. Each antherozoid is a spirally coiled fibre endowed with a power of active motion, which is displayed as soon as it is removed from its cell. The motion is of two kinds—of progression, and of revolution round the axis. According to Thuret, two cilia emanate from each antherozoid, a little behind its anterior extremity, and it is to these organs that the motion is to be attri- buted.* 26. Summary.—Ifwe take into consideration only those families of the Algae in which the phenomena of reproduction have been more or less completely investigated, we shall find that all the instances of the occurrence of bodies to * For further information see K. Miiller, Die Entwick. der Characeen, Bot. Zeit. 1845, p. 393. Kaulfuss, Die Keimung der Characeen. Leipzig, 1825. Varley, On the Structure of Chara in the Microscropic Journal. Thuret, Ann. des Sc. Nat. xvi.p. 18.