274 RESPIRATION. on the flat expansion of a cell-wall. But it is quite an error to suppose that each cellule has its own separate arterial ramuscule. Professors Harting and S. Van der Kolk's injections place this point beyond doubt: — " quod ad divisionem ramoruni arteriarum at- tinet, animadvertendum est, non alveolum quenique singulum ramulumaccipere, quum hoc tantum valeat de infundibulis, ita ut lobulus, infundibula continens, accipiat truncum arte- riae, ille truncus ad numerum infundibulorurn dividatur et iteruin subdividatur." (Adriani). From this description it results that the ca- pillary web without an intervening trunk stretches from cell to cell. One more im- Fig. 224. Injected preparation of a single arterial twig and the attendant vein, showing a single plane of capil- laries overlying the air-cells. The pleural capil- lary system is distinguished from that of the true pulmonary tissue by the greater denseness of the vascular web and greater minuteness of the meshes in the latter situation. {After Kolli/ter.) portant fact remains to be stated with refer- ence to the capillary plexus. It is nowhere doubled upon itself, as it is in the lung of the reptile. Every cell-wall and every partition between the cells bears only a single layer of vessels. The opposed sides of such a layer must therefore bound two different cells, and the current of blood by which it is traversed must be subjected on both its flat sides to the action of air contained in the cells. If this plexus were double, only one side could re- ceive the influence of the atmosphere. This type is exemplified in the reptilian lung. All other things being equal the respiration of the mammal and man must be twice in amount that of the reptile. But this anato- mical fact has also an interesting pathological bearing. When the capillary layer, or rather the blood borne by it, is the seat of disease, the products of that disease must be poured into the two contiguous cells, between which it is interposed, at the same time and in the same amount. This accounts for the rapidity with which pneumonic infiltration occurs. In the most injected preparation the diameter of the capillary vessels of the rete mirabde exceeds that of the meshes. This, however, is not an exact expression of their propor- tions in the living state. The diameter of a single capillary, measured in the injected state on the wall of an air-cell, does not exceed TsVo (Todd and Bowman.) The human red blood corpuscle ranges, in the same drop of blood, from -^Vo to ^-gW °f an mcn m d'a" meter, the average being from ^ to ^^jo- Then two red-corpuscles may traverse any single capillary abreast ? When allowance is made for the difference between the internal and external diameters of the vessel, it will appear very probable that in man and mam- mals only a single row of red-corpuscles tra- verse the pulmonary capillaries at a time. In the lung of the reptile it is to be proved by observation of the living circulation, that a double row of corpuscles really does move along the vessels. This fact must reduce the amount of oxygenation which in a given time a single corpuscle receives. The pulmonary Veins convey the blood, arterialised in the plexus just described, to the left auricle. The distribution of the pul- monary veins differs strikingly from that of the artery and bronchia. Each lobule has its separate arterial and bronchial branch. This regularity does not obtain with respect to the veins. The pulmonary veins arise in the form of minute radicles in the capillary plexus of the air-cells. Now although, as formerly stated, the individual air-cells are not furnished with a separate arteriole and venule, the extreme branches of the pulmonary artery and the in- cipient venules are separated in different parts of the lung by areas of similar dimensions. It follows, therefore, that the time during which a globule of blood in different parts of the lung is exposed to the agency of the air is equal; in other words, every drop of blood which enters the lung is arterialised to the same amount from the equality of the areas of exposure over which it passes. It should also be observed that as the capillary web is spread over several cells, every particle of blood in transitu from artery to vein traverses the circumferences of several cells. This is a beautiful provision for securing certainty to a vital process. The minute venules unite to form visible trunks, which course irregularly over and between the cells and intercellular passages. They observe a general diagonal direction, the bronchia and artery occupying with great constancy the geometrical axes of the lobule. They emerge out of this lobular space not at its apex, in company with the air-tube and artery, but at every or any point of its circumference. This is more obviously the case as regards the lobular veins along the surface of the lung. Those more centrally si- tuated follow the bronchia more closely. This explains why Reisseissen, Cruveilhier, and others have expressed very opposite opinions upon this point. In the intralobular spaces the