OVUM. Lioi. Fig. 68*. Micropyle of the ovum in Osseous Fishes. a. Enlarged view of a quadrangular portion of the surface of the mature ovarian egg of the Stickleback containing the micropyle from above. In the outer part of this figure the general dotted appearance of the membrane is seen, and here and there the pedicu- lated flask-like processes attached to the membrane in this fish in the vicinity of the micropyle; the radiated shading represents the appearance of the funnel-shaped depression leading to the aperture of the micropyle, which is seen in the centre of the space it encloses. b. Transverse section of the dotted membrane and funnel of the micropyle of the same egg some- what more enlarged, seen in profile; the aperture of the micropyle is seen towards the point, of the funnel. This view is semidiagrammatic, and the fine canals passing through the membrane are re- presented fewer and wider than they are in nature. The diameter of the whole ovum was about X"; the thickness of the external membrane ; the width of the base of the funnel about -AJ1; the depth of the funnel jL" ; the diameter of the micro- pyle aperture at the apex dgj". c. Small portion of the membrane at the apex of the funnel containing the aperture of the micropyle pressed flat, magnified 500 diameters; from the trout's egg. d. A similar portion of the membrane magnified 1000 diameters. The lumen of the canals is seen, and an indication of hexagonal division of the spaces between them, represented somewhat too distinctly in the figure. the existence of the micropyle in the ova o^ several fishes ; and though I have not yet been so fortunate as to perceive the sperma- tozoa actually passing into the ovum through this aperture, the accuracy of Ransom's obser- vations on this as well as on other points leave little doubt as to the fact stated by him. The micropyle in the Gasterosteus, as de- scribed by Ransom and observed by myself, is a considerable funnel-shaped depression in the outer membrane, which projects inwards on the granular substance of the yolk, so as to indent this layer to some depth, and pro- bably to reach near to the germinal vesicle, which lies imbedded within the germinal layer. The inner narrow end of the funnel terminates in a distinct rounded or elliptical mark, with a fine but distinct line bounding it, which has all the appearance of a foramen, and which is either an open passage or one which is closed only by an extremely delicate structure. The funnel-shaped depression leading to the micropyle may be easily seen on the surface of the egg of the salmon or trout when slightly dried of the adhering moisture, and is of such a size that it may be perceived with the naked eye or with a lens of low magnifying power. In order to perceive the micropyle itself, how- ever, or pore in the point of the funnel, it is necessary to remove from the egg that portion of the dotted shell membrane containing the funnel; and having freed it from the adherent granules of the yolk-substance by careful wash- ing, for which Ransom has recommended a solution of acetate of potash, this part of it may be viewed under pressure with great ease with a magnifying power of 200 or 300 diame- ters. The porous structure of the membrane is then seen to continue very nearly up to the margin of the micropyle. This last has a diameter of from ^oVo" t0 eoVo"- The ap- pearance of a double outline surrounding the micropyle proceeds from the circumstance that, in looking through the funnel we see at once two portions of the narrowing wall of the passage of different widths. In Ransom's experiments, very soon after spermatic fluid was placed in the water round the ovum of the Stickleback, several of the spermatozoa were perceived to pass in at the micropyle; and immediately upon this water was imbibed, and the space named the respira- tory chamber was formed between the yolk surface and the external membrane; a change which in this fish did not take place in the unfecundated ova, but which in some others occurs without impregnation. It is from this fact apparently that Ransom is inclined to the opinion that the micropjle may be closed by a very delicate membrane, which in fecundation is removed or broken through by the entrance of the spermatozoa; but with regard to this point there is still some uncer- tainty. The germinal vesicle previous to its disappearance is imbedded below the super- ficial layer of yolk-substance in a stratum of granular matter; and Ransom conceives that at the time of the rupture of the vesicle, this granular matter beinir mingled with the con-