OVUM. 5 B 3 cell appears with great probability to take its origin from the germ-cell, or its nu- cleus, or from some part of it, in combination with a determinate portion of the sperm product, or descendent of the sperm-cell ; and we are so far justified, therefore, in ascribing the genetic process by which the new being is formed to the mutual action of the products of two different kinds of cells, viz., the germ- cell and the sperm-cell. * In conclusion, the ovum may be defined to be a distinct vesicular body originally formed from a cell, presenting throughout its exist- ence the organic cellular structure, consisting of oleo-albuminous materials, formed by the female of an animal species, and capable, when acted on by the spermatic product of the male, of undergoing the successive changes of embryo-genesis, by which, either directly or through intervening generations, the species of animals is reproduced and continued. The structural distinctive characters of an ovum are, therefore, its enclosure within a distinct vesicular covering, and its original organic cellular constitution in the germ-cell : its most important physiological characteristic is its susceptibility of the changes of embry- onic development under the influence of the sperm-cell or its product. H. Of the non-sexual Mode of Gene- eation. The necessity of distinguishing several kinds of non-sexual reproduction according to its occurrence in animals entirely without sex, or believed to be so, and in those which may also be propagated in the sexual mode, has already been adverted to. A farther distinc- tion of the non-sexual reproduction may be made according to the nature of the process itself: thus, some forms of it consist in the development of buds, so intimately united with the parent substance, that scarcely any difference can be perceived between their mode of formation and that of continuous growth, as in Hydra and various Polypes : other forms consist in the development of new individuals from germs so isolated in their form and cellular in their structure, that it might seem at first sight arbitrary to distinguish them from ova, as in Aphides ; others appear to hold an intermediate place and character between these two forms, as in Salpa: while, in a fourth set, a more complex and varied series of changes occurs, which may be regarded with probability as modifications of the gemmal or germinal processes, as in Medusoid Polypi, Taenia, &c. But it will be apparent from what follows that we are as yet very far from that exact knowledge of the nature and first origin of buds, gemma?, or other kinds of germs, from which animals may be multiplied in the non-sexual modes, which would enable us to form satisfactory general * These views have been stated with great clear- ness by Prof. Owen in his various writings, especi- ally in his Essay on Parthenogenesis, and Lectures on Generation, &c, in Medical Times, 1849, and by Dr. Carpenter in his Principles of Physiology, Ge- neral and Comparative. 1861. conclusions as to their mutual relations, and their similarity or difference, as compared on the one hand with organic growth, and on the other with oval development. As the accurate determination of these re- lations is in a great measure impossible, it will be expedient for the present to state only very briefly the general characters of the several non-sexual modes of reproduction, before selecting for more particular consider- ation some varieties of the process, the recent investigation of which seems calculated to influence in a considerable degree future ge- neral views of the whole subject of reproduc- tion. We shall also defer for the present any minute consideration of the relation of these processes to the growth or development of cells, for we shall have occasion to treat more at length of that subject in a subsequent part of this article, and in that of vegetable ovum.* At this place it is only necessary to re- mind the reader, that all processes of develop- ment, whether in the earliest or at more ad- vanced stages of formation, appear to consist essentially in, or are more or less intimately connected with, a multiplication of organic cells in the parts that are developed. In the unicellular beings,fissiparous and gemmiparous multiplication may easily be recognised to be processes of cell growth ; the one consisting in the division of the parent cell into a pro- geny of two by a nearly equal partition of its substance; the other, in an extension and gradual enlargement of a small or limited por- tion of the original cell. But in many of the instances of fission and gemmation on the larger scale with which we are acquainted, observa- tion has not yet pointed out the primary cell, if it exists, from which the process of division or extension begins; and, indeed, most instances of fissiparous division may, as Dr. Carpenter has remarked, be referred to a peculiar modifi- cation of gemmation. The process of budding or gemmation is usually stated to occur in one of two modes. 1st, by the extension of a part of the parent body which remains in organic connection with it during the development of the new individual from the bud ; the attached bud either sprouting from the exterior, or being developed in the interior of the parent stock. 2nd, by the development of the new individual from a small detached portion of the substance of the parent, which undergoes the principal formative changes after its separation. These separate buds have been called gemmae, gem- mules, bulbils, &c, and two kinds of them may also be distinguished according as they are thrown off from the external surface of the parent body, or are formed and become loose within its interior. These gemmules have frequently attained to some degree of development by the time of their separation, and very often are provided with cilia over their surface, which cause them to move * For a very lucid and agreeable statement of these relations the reader is referred to Dr. Carpen- ter's able Treatise on General and Comparative Physiology. 1851.