31 OVUM. observations of previous inquirers, as well as the addition of new facts, from which an almost entire certainty is acquired that the various phenomena do actually succeed each other in the order above stated, and that the occurrence of alternate or intermediate gene- rations in these animals is established. Von Siebold had in 1835 described in the Monostomum mutabile the development of the first embryo from the ovum in the Gregarina- like or animalcular form, and had shown the next change to consist in the formation within the first embryo of a second body endowed with locomotive power, and independent vita- lity, and differing both from its immediate parent and from the adult.* V. Siebold,as well as others, had ascertained the Cercarias to be themselves incomplete animals, and to proceed from others by a process of internal production of a non-sexual kind. Steenstrup therefore di- rected his attention particularly to trace these Cercariae on the one hand, in theirdevelopment into complete Distomata, and on the other, backwards through their progenitors towards the first origin from an ovum. His observa- tions were made principally in three kinds of Cercaria, which, along with their antecedent and succeeding conditions, are found in great numbers in the fresh water snails, Lymneus stagnalis, Paludina vivipara, Planorbis, &c, and which had been previously named Cer- caria echinata, C. armata, and C. ephemera. In these, especially in the first, the conversion of an encysted Cercaria by metamorphosis into a Distoma, and the descent of the Cercaria (by metagenesis) through two progenitors, not themselves Distomata, was ascertained, but he did not succeed in tracing these bodies back to their origin from ova. By a com- parison, however, of the body formed within the animalcular embryo of the ovum of the Monostomum mutabile, as observed by V. Siebold, with the first progenitor of the Cerca- ria, to which it was found to present a remark- able similarity, the chain of evidence seemed to be complete, and Steenstrup found himself in a position to announce the general views of alternate generation, which have ever since their first publication attracted the greatest attention, and contributed in a powerful de- gree to modify anil direct the investigation of the generative processes in the lower animals. To the immediate progenitor of the Cercaria Steenstrup gave the name of nurse (altrix, Amme), in allusion to its nursing or nourishing function, and to the immediate progenitor of this one he gave the appellation of " parent or grand-nurse." These terms may be objection- able, but an unnecessary amount of criticism seems to have been bestowed on them by some writers. They are adopted hypotheti- cally by Steenstrup ; they do not appear to withdraw him from the matter-of-fact state- ment of his observations; and they seem to be, in many respects, short and convenient terms in the description of the phenomena. These bodies have in the Cercaria echinata all the appearance of distinct animals, that is, a * See Wiegmanu's Arcliiv, 1835. body with a head separated by a neck or col- lar, a tail or caudal projection, and two pro- cesses of the integument similar to limbs, a mouth and alimentary cavity, and they move with all the appearance of spontaneity; but it ought to be remarked that the form and powers of these nursing or formative cases differ considerably in various other species, and in some present so little of the external form or endowments of an independent ani- mal, that the more general appellations of germ-cases, or germ-sacs, or sporo-cysts, may be more appropriate to them.* It is chiefly among the aquatic Gastero- pod Mollusca, and a few land ones, that these observations have been made; but V. Siebold has extended them to some of the Trematoda inhabiting the air-sacs and other parts of water fowls, which no doubt come from the same Mollusca, and obtain access to the seat of their final parasitic habitation from the water or along with food, into which they have come as Cercariae, after having previously been parasitic in the Mollusca. It is easy to understand how the ova of the Distomata discharged from the bodies of the water fowl may gain their place in the Mollusca. V. Siebold has observed in a very interesting manner also the passage of the Cercarias into the bodies of water insects (larvae of Ephemera and Perlida), which he placed together with a quantity of Lymneus stag- nalis, from the various parts of whose bodies the Cercariae were discharged in numbers out of their nursing capsules: the penetration of the integument of the insect by the Cercaria and the mode of casting its tail being precisely the same as that observed by Steenstrup in the Mollusca.f Both these observers agree that the first and second germ-cases (or nurses), and the Cercarias, or Distoma-larvas, arise by a process of gradual development from extremely minute granular spherules, which are at first situated in the posterior region of the body, or between the alimentary cavity and the integument. These are certainly not ova : but we are at a loss to state to what class of reproductive germs they may be referred with greatest accuracy. J It is known that the bodies which inhabit the aqueous chamber of the eyes of many fishes are imperfect Distomata. Steenstrup has frequently observed these larvae in the pupa state adhering to the inside, and some- times to the outside, of the cornea, and he has occasionally noticed a delicate streak through the cornea, indicating the track through which the animal has penetrated ; and he considers it as extremely probable that all the Trema- toda of the eyes of fishes, of which a vast variety has been described by Nordmann$, are * See Victor Cams, iiber den Generations -wechsel, for a figure of these more simple forms of sporo- cysts. f See the Article Pakasites, in R. Wagner's HandwSrterbuch der Physiologie. t See Fig. 28. </. ยง Mikogruphische Beitrage, &c, 1832.