RUMINANTIA. 526 the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae, and are inserted into the manubrium sterni and first rib." In the Sheep the fleshy bundles are very small ; they also arise from the lowermost four cervical vertebrae ; but in the Camel they are connected to all the bones of the neck, except the dentata, the posterior scalenus being particularly short, and only attached to the last. The longus colli and recti have a similar disposition to those of Man. The former is divided into a superficial and deep portion, the latter division extending as far back as the third vertebras of the thorax. In the Camel this muscle exhibits an increase of develop- ment proportionate with the elongated neck, its posterior attachment commencing at the body of the fourth dorsal segment. The rectus capitis anticus, major and minor, are comparatively insignificant in all ruminants and solipeds. The muscular arrangements at the fore-part of the neck present many points of interest; for example, — the sterno-cleido-mastoideus of anthropotomists is represented in the ma- jority of mammifers by two distinct muscles. The first of these, the sterno-mastoideus or maxillaris, is a slender fleshy band which divides near the middle and fore-part of the neck into two portions, one being inserted a little in front of the angle of the lower jaw, and the other becoming attached to the mastoid process. In the Sheep the anterior tendon extends as far forward as the zygo- matic arch, and immediately behind the jaw the muscle is united to the deltoides, beneath which it is also connected to the rectus capitis anticus major by an intervening ten- don. In the Camels this muscle is fleshy throughout its entire extent, and at the lower part is joined to its fellow of the opposite side ; superiorly, its tendons are fixed — one to the mastoid process, and another to the maxilla over the region of the submaxillary gland. The characters and position of this muscle are precisely similar in the Giraffe. The situation of the cleido-mastoideus has been already indicated in the description of the tripartite deltoides. Hyoid apparatus. — Before noticing the muscles connected with the os hyoides it is necessary to direct attention to its osseous framework. The hyoid bone is made up of a congeries of ossicles more or less consolidated, having relation to totally different parts of the ske- leton, but here associated together for the threefold purpose of supporting the tongue and larynx, and affording a point a"appui for the muscles destined to act upon these organs. In the ruminant, as in Solipeda, nine distinct elements may be recognised, arranged in four pairs, the ninth piece being represented by the body or basi-hyal bone. Fig. 351. indicates the relation of these parts in the sheep. Com- mencing from above, the first pair—the styloid bones — or stylo-hyals (1, 1) are seen to have an enormous longitudinal development, being also somewhat hammer-shaped and com- pressed laterally, to favour muscular attach- ment. Their peculiar figure is due to the Fig. 351. Hyoid bones of the Sheep. (From Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) presence of two apophyses at the temporal extremity (a a, b b) and it is by the superior process that the bony chain is connected with the cranium. In the Horse these bones are proportionally longer, but they are shorter in the Camelidae than in the typical ruminants. In Man the styloid processes of the temporal are homologous with the stylo-hyals. The second pair or epi-hyals (2,2) are intercalated between the first and third series of ossicles, and complete a right angle, formed by the relatively horizontal and vertical position of those bones ; they have an insignificant ap- pearance in most of the genera, but attain in the Camels a considerable size. More than two nodules are sometimes present. The epi-hyals are most conspicuous in the carni- vorous mammifers, but in the human subject are merely represented by two long liga- mentous bands, which in a few instances have been found ossified. The third pair or cerato- hyals (3, 3) have a nearly vertical position when the head is raised, and they constitute with the epi-hyals, the lesser cornua which in Man are feebly indicated, being recognised only by two small pisiform nodules moveably articulated to the body of the hyoid, and forming, as in the present instance, a right angle with the greater cornua. In the typical ruminants these elements are larger than the epi-hyals, but in the Dromedary, according to Duvernoy, this character is reversed. The body of the hyoid or basi-hyal (4), of a tri- angular form, is placed below the cerato- hyals and anterior to the greater cornua, the four ossicles of which they together consist, being articulated to the extremities of its lateral apophyses on either side. There is generally a slight bulging at the anterior and middle part, indicative of the tendency to antero-posterior elongation, which feature becomes very manifest in other vertebrata, and more particularly in birds ; it is to this point that an additional element — the true lingual bone or glosso-hyal — is connected, in