225 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 35. At the period of the formation of the spores, the receptacle of Geaster (fimbriatus) is a solid body of a depressed spheroidal form. It presents for examination a central mass and a peridium, the tissue of the latter being con- tinuous with that of the former only at the base. The central mass or kernel is originally Fig. 143. Diagram of receptacle of Geuster fimbriatus. The kernel, a, is surrounded by its reticular mem- brane, which is indicated by the inner of the two double lines. The outer double line corresponds to the resistant external layer of the peridium. The intervening space, b, is occupied by a delicate tissue of spherical cells. At c, all these struc- tures are continuous, as well with each other as with the mycelium from which the whole ori- ginates. solid, but when fully developed, presents numerous irregular cavities, which are scat- tered through its substance. It is entirely composed, when in the solid condition, of delicate filaments similar to those of mycelium, the arrangement of which is as follows :—The superficial filaments are closely woven toge- ther, so as to form a delicate reticular mem- brane, which invests the whole kernel, and from the inner aspect of which a second and very numerous set of filaments passes off towards the centre. It is of these, or of their ramifications, that the corky, semi-elastic sub- stance of the kernel is entirely formed. If we examine the cavities which have been men- tioned as existing in the fully developed con- dition, we find that they are furnished with a Fig. 144. Section of a portion of the young receptacle of Geaster rufescens, about 100 diam. The section has passed through one of the cavi- ties, and shows the arrangement of the basidia which form its lining membrane. Some of these bear spores on their summits. more or less continuous lining of basidia, bear- ing spores on their summits. These basidia have been shown, by careful observation, to Supp. be in fact the swollen terminations of the centripetal branching filaments above men- tioned. The peridium it is less necessary to describe, as it has no immediate connection with the spore-bearing organs. It consists of an internal and an external layer, the latter being smooth and very resistant, while the former consists of delicate, transitory, spheri- cal cells. In the ripe condition of the Ge;ister, the peridium becomes detached, at the same time splitting from apex to base in a remark- able and characteristic manner. Geaster may be considered as the type of a well-known family, including the Li/cuperdons, Bovista?, and others, all of which are characterised by the presence of a solid receptacle, furnished with numerous spore-bearing lacunae. In al- most all of these Fungi, the arrangement of the spores with their pedicles in relation to the basidia are the same, four pedicles ema- nating from each basidium. In the ripe con- dition the spores are always of a dark-brown colour, frequently approaching to black, and their surfaces are beautifully reticulated with linear furrows, between which there are little conical projections. Each spore possesses an external reticulated, and an internal homo- geneous membrane. This last encloses a cavity, which is occupied by a fluid, which contains numerous oleaginous granules. The ripe spores, after their detachment from the basidia, lie loose in the lacunae of the recep- tacle from which they are set free by the dis- integration of the basidia, as well as of the filament with which they are connected. In this manner, in Geaster, the kernel is con- verted into a bag, formed of the delicate reti- cular membrane, described above as its proper investment. This bag contains a dark-brown diffluent mass, composed of the remains of the basidia and filaments along with ripe spores. Finally, the membrane gives way, and the spores are disseminated in the shape of a light, dry-looking powder. 36. We next pass to the consideration of the Fungi, among which the spore, instead of being produced at the summit of a basidium, or at the extremity of a simple filament, is formed in the interior of a vesicle or pouch, which is called a theca or ascus. Of these, the first which we shall mention belong to a group of subterranean plants, of which the truffle is the best-known example. The recep- tacle of the truffle consists of a fleshy mass, throughout which numerous sinuous cavities are interspersed. Each cavity is partly lined, partly filled with the theeae and the cells upon which they are supported. This receptacle, like that of all other Fungi with which we are acquainted, originates from a pre-existing mycelium. In its unripe condition it displays on section a number of sinuous empty cavities, which either communicate with each other, or open at one or more points of the external surface. As the truffle advances towards maturity, the cavities are obliterated by the formation of a whitish tissue; so that on sec- tion, we observe the whole to consist of two substances—the one translucent, of firm con-