OVUM. tH9] phenomena of fecundation been minutely ob- served. The formation of these ova may be traced with facility in the substance of the ovary, in consequence of the transparency cf the ani- mals. The nucleated germinal vesicle seems first to make its appearance ; the granular joik substance follows; and the vitelline membrane is last formed.* The Rotifera present another example of the formation in the autumn season or before winter, of that variety of the reproductive body which has been called winter egg, and which has already been noticed under the Entomostraca. These bodies were observed by Ehrenberg in Hydatina and Brachionus, by Dalrymple in Notommata, and by Huxley and Leydig in Lacinularia. They are twice the size of the ordinary ova, are formed in very small numbers, probably only two, as is most common in Daphnia, and contain no apparent germinal vesicle. Mr. Huxleyf ap- pears to have pointed out very clearly the dis- tinction between true or ordinary ova and these reproductive bodies. He says, at p. 16 of his paper, " The true ova are single cells which have undergone a special development, the ephippial ova are aggregations of cells, in fact larger or smaller portions, sometimes the whole of the ovary, which become enveloped in a shell and simulate true ova." Mr. Huxley Fig. 84* Formation of Ephippial ovum in Lacinularia Socialis. (From Huxley.) A. represents a portion of the ovary massed together and undergoing a change of structure pre- paratory to its conversion into the ephippial ovum. b. the ovum now complete, the external invest- ment distinct. c. the same having now its contents divided into two portions. The ephippial ova differ from the ordinary ones in their mode of formation, and in having three investments. has traced minutely the process of conversion of the substance of the ovary into such an ephippial ovum, or rather the protecting covering of the two ova which are contained in the ephippium ; and his observations seem to show a manifest difference between these and the ordinary ova. The same follows also from Mr. Dalrymple's researches on No- tommata. The correspondence of the num- * Leuckart, loc. cit. t Loc. cit. ber and general structure of these ova in Daphnia and the Rotifera is also deserving of notice. These winter ova, besides being much larger than the ordinary ones, differ from them also in structure, having three investing membranes; and they appear designed, like those of the same kind in other animals, to resist the cold of winter and other hurtful influences. It would appear that these ephipphial ova, like those of Daphnia, do not require fecunda- tion. Leydig, though distinguishing the two kinds of ova, regards the hvbernating ova as only modifications of the ordinary ones ; while Huxley considers them rather as pecu- liar buds like those of Aphis or Gyrodactylus.* Turbellaria.—Under this class three orders of the animals allied to the Planaria may be brought, according to the researches of Qua- trefages and others, viz., the two kinds of Planaria with simple and ramified alimen- tary canal, or Rhabdoccela and Dendrocoela, and the Nemertides or Mioccela. The first two orders are hermaphrodite; in the third the sexes are distinct. The ovology of this class is known principally from the interesting and beautiful researches of Quatrefages f; but the history of the structure and formation of the ova is still far from being complete. The ova of the Planarise are of various magnitudes, and present some differences in their structure. For the most part they con- tain only the finely granular yolk, but with oc- casionally some oil globules interspersed. It is only in the earliest stages that the germinal vesicle is perceived with ease, in consequence, probably, of the opacity of the yolk substance, and the dark colour of the external envelopes. In most of the genera the germinal vesicles and the yolks are formed in separate organs, as in the trematode animals, to which the Planarise are nearly allied, but in some, as Macrostomum, these two organs come to be combined in one. At first the yolk-mass, in descending and meeting with the germinal vesicles, unites a number of them into a con- nected chain ; but somewhat later the ova are separated into distinct spheres, and a vitelline membrane is formed to enclose each of them. Just as occurs in the body of the adult Planariae, there is also in the ova a remarkable tendency to subdivision by fission. Thus, in the commencement of the development of the ovum, it is liable to become divided into distinct masses, so as to give rise to the de- velopment of a number of embryoes from one ovum. Such, at least, is the view entertained by some ; but there may be doubts as to whether the ovum so divided is really simple, * See on this subject also, Burnett's translation of Von Siebold's Comparative Anatomy, p. 150. f Mem. sur quelques Planarie'es Marines, in Anna!, des Scien. Nat. 1845, torn. iv. p. 169; and Mem. sur la Famille des iS'emertiens (Nemertea), id. lib. 1846, torn, vi., p. 269. The Rhabdoccela are known chiefly by the researches of Schmidt, Die Iihabdoccelen Strudelwiirmer des siissen Was- sers, Jena, 1848; and of Schultz, Beitrage zur Geschichte der Turbellarien, 1851. [i 4]