UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 698 ings in the uterine walls ; or, if previous ad- hesions are formed, the fluid may escape by the vagina or rectum. Haematometra may occur also in certain malformations of the uterus, as already described (p. 680.). Physometra. Pneumatosis s. tympanites uteri. —This affection, known to Hippocrates* and Aretaeusf, consists in a collection of air in the cavity of the uterus, which makes its escape from time to time by the vagina, with or without explosion. The air may be dry, or accompanied by more or less fluid (physometra humida). In ordinary cases it is inodorous, but occasionally it possesses a most offensive odour. In these latter cases (physometra putrida), the gas appears to be generated by decomposition of some substance within the uterus, as a putrid foetus, the remains of a pla- centa left iij utero, and the like, while the generation of an inodorous gas, on the other hand, without the presence of any such sub- stances, within the uterus, can only be com- pared with those sudden developments of air in the stomach and intestines which often take place in hysterical women. Hydatids.— A case of acephalocysts within the ovary has been given at p. 584., but this is so rare an affection of the uterus that no anatomical collection, 1 believe, in this city contains an example of it. Rokitansky's often-quoted casej appears to be the only certain instance of acephalocysts in the ute- rine cavity which pathologists in the present day are able to adduce. In the " Lancet" of 1840, vol. i. p. 691., a case is reported as one of uterine hydatids, the nature of which is not very clear. That they were not acephalocysts (echinococcus vesicles) may be inferred from the description. This case, which is quoted here as an example of the more doubtful instances of hydatids, was probably one of interstitial pregnancy (see p. 621.) combined with the vesicular degene- ration of the chorion described in the next paragraph. Those vesicular masses and groups or strings of watery vesicles, falsely termed hydatids, which are so frequently expelled from the uterus accompanied or preceded by abundant serous discharges, combined with rapid dis- tension of the abdomen and some symptoms of pregnancy, consist invariably of moniliform enlargements of the villi of an imperfectly de- veloped chorion or placenta. It is almost needless to observe that the presence of a true chorion structure, which these substances invariably exhibit, even in their most degenerated and abnormal forms constitutes unquestionable evidence of a prior act of impregnation. Connected with these, when the degeneration is not much advanced, may be sometimes found an embryo per- * De Morbis Mulierum. t De Causis et Signis Moib. Diuturn. t Loc. cit. vol. ii. p. 291. § For descriptions and illustrations of these struc- tures see Wedl, Pathological Histology (Syd. Soc), p. 172. fectly or incompletely developed*, but in higher grades of this abnormal state the em- bryo invariably perishes or is unformed. Narrowing and obliteration of the uterine ca- vity. Atresia.—The defects which come under this head may be either congenital or ac- quired. They may consist in a simple nar- rowing, or stricture of the cavities of the uterus, or of the apertures leading to them, or in a complete obliteration of some or all of these. Probably most of the cases of atresia which do not originate in the malformations already described, have resulted from the or- ganisation of the products of inflammation affecting these parts. Obliteration of the external os uteri, either partial or complete, is the most common of these conditions. In minor degrees, where the form of the parts is not lost in adhesions with adjacent structures, the os is found closed by narrow membranous threads or bands. If the closure is not complete, pregnancy may ensue, but labour is obstructed, and the original seat of the os is then with difficulty traced, or it cannot be found. The cervical canal may be entirely oblite- rated by the formation of fibrous tissue, in which smooth muscular fibres have been some- times found. Obliteration, or narrowing of the inner ute- rine orifice, may occur in the progress of senile atrophy, or as a result of the same processes that cause obliterations lower down. All the foregoing atresia? may result in the collections of fluids within the uterine cavity recently de- scribed. Lastly, the ca vity of the uterine body may be so completely closed that no trace of it can be found. Such an example is delineated in PI. 13. of Boivin's and Duges' Atlas, which contains also the figure of another uterus, the original seat of whose cavity is indicated only by a narrow triangular band of white tissue nearly as hard as cartilage. Pathologic conditions which may involve se- veral of the uterine tissues. Cancer. — The two main disorganising pro- cesses by which the structure of the uterus is metamorphosed or disintegrated and ultimately more or less destroyed, are those under which cancer and fibroid are respectively developed in its tissues. Of these, regarded as destruc- tive agents, cancer ranks second in point of frequency, but first in potency. Cancer occurs in the uterus as in the ovaries, under the three principal varieties ofencepha- loid, scirrhous, and colloid. But while in the latter organ colloid as a primary disease is certainly more common than either of the other two ; in the uterus, on the other hand, both scirrhous and colloid are rare, while ence- phaloid constitutes the chief form under which cancer is found. The development of cancer may undoubt- edly commence in any portion of the uterus, but the number of instances in which it occurs, * Granville, Graphic Illustrations of Abortion pi. iv. and v.