Ll07j OVUM. Fig. 71 *. 7enital Organs of Phyttirhoe huecphalum, one of the Hermaphrodite Gasteropoda. ( From II. Mutter and Gegenbaur.~) A. The compound or hermaphrodite organs dissected out and represented several times magnified; o t, the two productive organs each composed of ovigerous and seminiferous parts; v d, the common excretory ducts for both kinds of organ; v s, the seminal vesicle; u, the uterus; p, a part of the penis; c, the common external vent. b. One of the lobes of the common productive organ laid open and more highly magnified. Towards the surface o o, the ova are seen in different stages of development in the ovarian stroma; in the interior t t, the substance of the testis with spermatic cells and spermatozoa in various degrees of advancement; some of the filaments being very long; v d, the common excretory duct for ova and spermatozoa. enclosed in the liver, the nature of which was for along time involved in obscurity, and occa- sioned much doubt and difficulty to naturalists. The explanation of this peculiar structure we owe first to H. Meckel*, and Leuckartf; and more recently H. Meckel and Gegenbaur have described this organ particularly in one of the heteropodous Mollusca, viz. Phyllirrhoe buce- phalum.J The outer part of this curious organ constitutes the ovary, the inner the testis ; and the products of these respective organs, in leaving the seat of their first formation, pass together into an inner common cavity, and thence downwards in the excretory duct. There is, therefore, a common outlet for both. The ova and spermatozoa most frequently pass out at different times ; but occasionally both these reproductive elements are seen to- gether in the passages. It seems probable therefore that they in general meet for im- pregnation only in the lower part of the pas- sages ; but this apparently is not yet fully de- termined, and the modes of union may be * Muller's Archiv. for 184-1, p. 483., see plates xiv. and xv. f Zur Morphologic und Anatomic der Geschlechts Organ. 1847, p. 128. X Zeitsch. fur Wissen. Zool. vol. v. p. 355. pi. xix. various in different genera or families. At all events, the primitive ova and spermatozoa seem to come into contact with each other previous to the addition of the enveloping membrane. * The ova of the Mollusca are in general of small size. The yolk consists of a viscid al- buminous substance, containing suspended in it minute granules, and a variable quantity of coloured oil globules. The germinal vesicle is proportionally of considerable size ; and the macula is distinct and granular. Leuckart-j- states that he and Nordmann have ascertained that in Lymneus, the first part of the ovum which is formed is the germinal vesicle, that the yolk-substance begins as a clear trans- parent albuminous matter surrounding the germinal vesicle, and, as we have seen in various other animals, the granular yolk matter is gradually deposited in this clearer part of the vitelline substance, occupying at first princi- * The hermaphrodite gland exists in the Ptero- poda, Apneusta, Nudibranchia, Infero-branchia, Tec- tibranchia, and Pulmonata. The Mollusca which have separate sexual organs belong chiefly to the orders Cyclobranchia, Soutibraachia,Tubulibranchia, and Cirribranchia, some Heteropoda, Pectinibranchia, and operculate Pulmonata or Cyclostoma. f Article Zeugung, p. 800.