[139] OVUM. cess of fecundation, or the phenomena which follow it, but it may be proper to state here in a general way the relation which subsists between the earliest changes occurring after fecundation, and the commencement of those phenomena of a histogenetic nature which precede the formation of the embryo itself. The most obvious and constant of these changes is that known as the cleavage or segmentation of the yolk,—a process which has been observed in the ova of all animals, and is not less interesting from its own na- ture, than from the bearing of its phenomena upon the explanation of the earliest organising process of embryonic development, and upon the whole subject of histogenesis. The segmentation affects only that part of the ovum of animals which is directly ger- minal or formative; and it results in the pro- duction of that layer of organised cells, of variable extent, in the centre of which, in a determinate position and direction, the rudi- ments of the embryo are first formed. The process of segmentation is, therefore, the pre- lude to the formation of the Blastoderma or germinal membrane of Pander. The extent, therefore, to which segmenta- tion affects the yolk differs greatly according to the amount of the yolk-substance which is directly germinal ; that being in some animals the whole, and in others only a fraction of the yolk, in proportion to the part which is only indirectly nutritive. In that group of ova, then, to which those of Mammalia belong, and which we have called the small-yolked, the entire yolk, or, at all events, its superficial layer, being directly formative, or being in- volved from the first in the production of the Blastoderm, the segmentation is complete, or the process of cleavage affects the whole mass of the finely granular yolk within the zona or vitelline membrane. In those ova again, such as we find in the bird among vertebrate, and the cuttlefish among the invertebrate animals, in which the formative yolk has the most limited extent, and consists only of a finely granular disc near the surface of the much larger mass of the cellular nutritive yolk, the segmentation is confined to that disc alone, and is therefore, in some respects, widely different from that which occurs in Mam- malia. In the intermediate group of ova be- longing to Batrachia and Osseous Fishes, there are many gradations of transition from the complete to the partial cleavage, so that in some, as the common frog, it is nearly, but not entirely, over the whole yolk; while in others, as in the salmon or osseous fishes, it does not extend over more than a third of the surface of the yolk.* * The more important phenomena of the yolk- germ cleavage or segmentation have been ascer- tained principally by the following observations: viz. 1st. of Prevost and Dumas in Batrachia, as early as the year 1824, and subsequently of Rusconi and Von Baer in the same animal; 2nd. of Bischoff and Barry in Mammalia, in 1838-39, their obser- vations being confirmed by myself in 1840, and greatly extended by Bischoff before the publication of his work upon the development of the rabbit, in 1842; 3rd. of Bagge in 1841, and of Kolliker in In the greater number of instances there is recognised in the mass of the whole yolk, or in its germinal part, immediately previous to its undergoing segmentation, a clear simple cell, generally nucleated, which was not be- fore perceptible ; to this the name of embryo- cell has been given, in order to distinguish it from the germinal vesicle, from which it has hitherto been believed it is in some measure distinct. In other instances a clear spherule or space only is observed in the place of the embryo-cell, and in a few animals no clear part of this nature has yet been detected. The division of the embryo-cell accompanies, or rather immediately precedes, that of the germ-yolk, so that each mass formed by the cleavage, grooving, or segmentation, as the case may be, contains as its nucleus or centre an embryo-cell, or clear spherule of its own, descended from the first cell or spherule of the same description. The process of segmentation, whether it involves the whole ovum, or is limited to a larger or smaller disc of the yolk, proceeds in most animals with a certain degree of geo- metric regularity, so that the number of germ- yolk segments are successively multiplied so as to be in the numbers 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, &c, until by the ultimate division a vast number of small globular masses are formed, which occupy principally the surface of the yolk over all its germinal portion.* The last result of the segmentation is the production of the blastoderma or germinal membrane in which, by other changes, the rudiments of the embryo subsequently make 1843, on Nematoid Worms; 4th. of C. Vogt in the Salmonidse and in the Alytes Obstetricans in 1842 ; 5th. of the same author, of Quatrefages, and many others in various invertebrate animals; Gth. in its most limited form the phenomenon was first well described by Kolliker in Cephalopoda in 1844; and 7th. in birds by Bergmann in 1846, by Coste in 1848, and by myself in the following years. The observations on this subject are far too numerous for quotation; those especially which have been made in experiments by artificial fecundation are most favourable to the investigation of the seg- mentation and other phenomena which follow immediately on fecundation. And in all these instances, as well as in very numerous others, the occurrence of segmentation and the regularity of its phenomena are so constant that we may regard it as one of the best established series of facts in organic nature. The observations with regard to segmentation in the ova of insects, which are still imperfect, form the only exception to the foregoing statement with which I am acquainted. * Reference is here made chiefly to the best- known and most common kind of segmentation, in which this process consists in the massing of the granular and fluid substance of the yolk round the embryo-cells or clear spheres as centres; but it is right to state that there is another form of this process, as yet only observed in some of the Cestoid and Nematoid Entozoa, in which the yolk, either clear or granular in its structure, does not appear to follow the divisions of the embryo-cells, but the gradually increasing progeny of the latter assi- milate or combine more and more with the volk, so that at last, when the germinal part of the ovum is entirely occupied with new cells, the original yolk has quite disappeared. The nature of this process, as compared with the more common form of yolk segmentation, is not perhaps as yet fully understood.