REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 249 106. Hippuris vulgaris*—The already ana- tropous ovule of this plant consists of a cylin- drical nucleus of delicate cellular tissue, along one side of which is observed a longitudinal fleshy ridge, terminating above in a short funi- culus, by which the ovule is suspended from the apex of the one-celled ovary. One of the central cells of this nucleus becomes larger Fie. 190. Section of naked nucleus of Hippuris vulgaris at an early stage, about lull diam. The embryo-sac is seen as a large central nucleated cell. (Unger.) than the rest, from which it is further distin- guished by its containing a free vesicular nu- cleolated cell-nucleus and granular fluid. This cell, the embryo sac, rapidly enlarges, and at the same time assumes an elongated oval form. A number of vesicles of various size are de- veloped at the same time, at its micropyle extremity, all of which disappear some time before the scattering of the pollen. Shortly after this has taken place several new cells are formed, one of which, situated towards the upper end of the sac, begins at once to lengthen, and is finally converted into a tube closed at both extremities (germ-cell). The rest arrange themselves in vertical series, so as to form a continuous tissue (the endo- sperm), which completely occupies the lower part of the sac. After this, in consequence, as may be presumed, of the contact of the pollen tube with the membrane of the sac, the germ-cell is divided by a transverse septum * Unger, Botanischc Beobachtungen, Entwick. des Embryos von Hippuris vulgaris. Bot. Zeitung, 184'J, p. 329. Sanderson, On the Embryogeny of Hippuris vulgaris. Trans, of Bot. Soc. of Edinburgh, Feb. 1850. into a tubular superior, and a spheroidal and much smaller inferior compartment. The Upper end of embryo-sac of the same, as observed immediately before impregnation, 250 diam. The tubular germ-cell, the lower end of which is embedded in the nucleated cells of the endosperm, occupies its axis. latter, which is the parent cell of the embryo, is divided by a vertical septum into two hemispheres. In these two new septa are formed, also vertical, but at right angles to Fig. 192. Tlie same immediately after impregnation. The germ-cell is now divided by a transverse sep- tum into two compartments, the inferior of which is the parent-cell of the embryo. 250 diam. the last. In the meantime, several new vesicles make their appearance in the upper tubular compartment of the germ-cell, which eventually become cylindrical, and arrange themselves, end to end, in its interior. The four cells of the embryo now divide by hori- zontal septa, which are succeeded by others parallel to its surface, and meeting their pre- decessors at angles of 45°. The globular body which is thus formed, consists of six-