OVUM. 21 c 3 undergoing a slight change of form, fixes itself by the narrowest end, and acquires tentacles like a Polype at the other, amounting for some time to eight. In this condition it appears to Fig. 16. Development of Medusa. ( From Sars, Steenstrup, and DalyeU.') n, h, ciliated free moving embryo from the ovtim ; e, embryo attached by its pedicle; d, its tentacula beginning to be formed ; e, with four, f with eight tentacula; y, the fully developed polype, producing other polypes by gemmation ; 7/, i, k," transverse di- vision and development of Medusa from the polype stock or strobila; /, a pile consisting of four Me- dusoids just about to separate; m, n, and lower lateral view of Medusae separated from the polype stock; o, more advanced, natural size: p, r, (from DalyeU), p, a pile of medusa discs separating, and new tentacula formed on the polype at the base ; r, the same, with more of the discs separated; the strobila returning to its polype state and budding at the side. be capable of multiplying itself, or producing other similar attached Polypes by gemmation from its side or base, or from a running stolon below it. The subsequent change of each of these polypoids is remarkable. It has been described by Sars and Dalyell as follows : — The body undergoing some elongation be- comes partially divided by transverse grooves, into a range or column of imperfect Medusa?, attached still to each other by their adjacent surfaces, but presenting at their borders, in various degrees of advancement, the division into rays or lobes which belong to the Me- dusa; the upper or terminal one having deve- loped upon it a set of radiated processes dis- tinct from the tentacles of the Polype and much longer than those of the rest. These young Medusas are successively separated from the stock by the deepening of the transverse clefts between them. They then move about as independent animals, and proceed in their farther growth and development to sexual and other completeness. These bodies, therefore, are subject to two kinds of multiplication, which are very different: by simple gemma- tion a number or a colony of Strobila; may be produced, and by transverse fission and deve- lopment a number of Medusas may be thrown off from each Strobila. A considerable number of the Medusa pro- geny having been separated, the Strobila stock generally returns to its polypoid condition, Fig. 17. Production of Medusa (Aurelia aurita) from Po- lype stock. (From Desor.) A, Medusa-form larvse on the stock above the polype, which remains at. the base, a. b, lower surface of a detached Medusa. c, d, natural size. Young Medusa? forming from the polype above its disc.