381 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. The veins of the intestines commence by a dense network, that receives the minute venous radicles into which the capillaries of the mucous and muscular coats return their blood. This plexus has the same submucous situation, and flattened shape, as the cor- responding arterial network already men- tioned; but,like the venous system in general, is composed of more numerous and larger branches. It gives off a number of veins ; which leave the intestine, and gradually unite into the vessels that converge to form the various trunks. These branches have a tole- rable correspondence with the primary rami- fications of the arteries from the eceliac axis and the two mesenteric vessels. Many of Fig. 279. Branches of the portal vein. a, trunk of theportal vein; b, superior mesenteric vein; c, inferior mesenteric vein; d, splenic vein, joined by the, e, gastro-epiploic and pyloric veins;/, pancreatieo-duodenal veins ; g, branch of the portal trunk to t lie left lobe of the liver; h, similar branch to the right lobe. (The remaining letters indicate as in the pre- ceding figures.) them unite to form two chief trunks, the superior and the inferior mesenteric veins. While others open directly into the splenic vein ; or into the vena porta?, which is formed by the junction of it and these mesenteric veins. The superior mesenteric vein (J, Jig. 279.), which receives the venous blood from that portion of intestine supplied by the artery of the same name, travels for some distance in company with the latter vessel ; lying on its right side, and somewhat superficially to it, and surrounded by very numerous lacteals and nerves. But near the lower bordtr of the third portion of the duodenum, it swerves towards the right side, from what was hitherto an almost vertical course upwards ; and after crossing in front of the duodenum at nearly a right angle, ends by joining the splenic vein behind the pancreas. This junction gives rise to the portal trunk (a, Jig. 279.). The inferior mesenteric vein (c, Jig. 279.), — the origin of which also corresponds to the region supplied by the artery of the same name — generally commences as a single trunk at or near the border of the pelvis. From hence it ascends almost vertically, but with a slight inclination inwards, beneath the perito- neum, and on the psoas muscle ; until, finally, it crosses under the transverse meso-colon, to end by a junction with the splenic vein ((/, Jig. 279.). In the latter part of this ascent, it is of course unaccompanied by the inferior mesenteric artery : and even below where this vessel is given off from the aorta, the artery and vein diverge so as to be compara- tively distant from each other. Its junction with the splenic vein (d,Jig. 279.), is usually about one or two inches from the point where this meets with the superior mesenteric vein. But it occasionally approaches much more closely to the latter vessel, or even joins with it prior to its union with the splenic to form the portal vein. The branches of both these mesenteric veins resemble those of the corresponding arteries in their number and size, and in the remarkable freedom of their anastomosis. And this copious and frequent inosculation,—which coincides with an absence of all valves,— not only holds good of the several primary branches which converge into the portal vein, but also applies in some degree to those smaller ramifications, by which the portal sys- tem inosculates with the general venous sys- tem at the two extremities of the alimentary tube. Tims many of the smaller veins at the lower part of the oesophagus communicate with both the azygos and portal veins. While the lowest branches of the inferior mesenteric vein establish a similar and much more extensive anastomosis of the two systems, by their junc- tion with a dense venous network—the hm- morrkoidal. plexus—which encircles the lower part of the rectum, and gives origin to the middle anil inferior hcemorrhoidal branches of the internal and external iliac veins. The foregoing peculiarities in the vascular arrangements of the human alimentary canal are at present only susceptible of a very im- perfect explanation. As regards the arteries, their great number and size, and their large anastomosing chan- nels, would probably be attended by several ad- vantages. The variety of these channels would concede to the circulation, not only a large supply of blood, but one such as no ordinary local accident could at all interfere with.* The muscular fibre contained in their walls would allow these numerous tubes to exercise an unusual control over the amount of blood * Compare the remarks on the vessels of the stomach at p. 3*S7.