PELVIS. 189 pubic rami being approximated at the angular bend to § of an inch. In a case which was operated on by Dr. Haebeke, and described in U Experience (No. 140.), the inferior pelvic outlet was nearly closed up entirely, the ischial tube- rosities being approximated to within two lines only, and the coccyx and pubes admitting only one finger between them* In Mr. Kinder Wood's case, the deformity was rostrated, the most available space at the brim being a circle of 1 inch diameter to the left of the projecting promontory. The antero- posterior diameter was I a inch, but less than | of an inch when the soft parts were at- tached f A somewhat remarkable variety of the ros- trated pelvis is figured by Dr. Churchill {fig. 119.). In this pelvis the superior pubic ramus Fig. 1 19. Obhng rostrated pelvis. (After Churchill.') is bent at its centre, so as to be nearly ap- proximated to the opposite pubis at that point, and the symphysis projects in a rostrum. The upper part of the sacrum and the pro- montory is, however, thrown back, the cotylo- sacral arch spread out, the antcro-posterior diameter increased, and the transverse lessened, somewhat in the same manner, and, doubtless, by the same mechanical conditions, modified only by the yielding of the pubis, as in the oblong pelvis before described. The acetabula in this pelvis are directed principally forwards and outwards. Causes of the foregoing pelvic distortions. — The principal causes of the preceding partial and complete distortions of the pelvis, are two diseases affecting the osseous system; viz. " rickets "—and " mollifies ossium" or " malacos- teonr Rickets is a very common disease of early life, which is said to be more apt to occur in scrofulous children about the period of denti- tion, but which may occur even after puberty, according to some authors. It is characterised * Lancet, '.840. f Mod. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 264. by a simple deficiency of the earthy matter of the bones—chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of lime ; while the animal constituents, al- though softened, and rendered less elastic, retain nearly their normal composition. The bones thus rendered pliable, which lie in the lines of weight, pressure, or muscular action, yield slowly and give way to the operating forces, bending in such a manner as the re- sultant direction of pressure and muscular traction, &c, permits them. We must refer the reader to the Article on the Pathology of Bone (vol. i. p. 440.) for a more detailed account of this disease. In Rokitansky's Pathological Anatomy, the bones in Rhachitismns infanta/is are described to present two separate pathological conditions. In one, the bones are very vascular, soft, fragile, and swollen, with enlarged medullary cavities, and the areolar spaces filled with, and often distended by, a pale, reddish jelly, which press- ing upon the areolar partitions, produces their absorption, and thus the enlargement of the cavities by coalescence. This jelly is also sometimes found effused under the periosteum. In the second variety, the bone is more or less reduced to its cartilaginous elements, the corpuscles {lacuna?) empty, the rays obliterated, and the lamellar structure wanting, or fallen asunder, with corpuscles interposed between the layers. On the last condition the softening of the bones de- pends. The periosteum is more vascular than normal, tumid, and more closely adhe- rent, so as to tear ofF with it a portion of the softened adjacent bone. It is said to differ from malacosteon in not being a painful disease, and in being capable of cure, with a subsidence of the swelling and reabsorption of the effused substance. In high degrees of the disease, however, atrophy anil fragility re- main permanently. The osseous structures affected by rickets are lighter, less marked, thinner, and more porous than normal, or than those affected by mollities ossium, according to Naegele ; — appearing as if they had been steeped in weak acid. The analysis of a rickety humerus and scapula, is given by Rokitansky as follows : Phosphate of lime and magnesia - 15'()0 Carbonate of lime - - 2'G6* Soluble salts ... q-C2 Total of inorganic matter - 18 88 Cartilage, vessels and fat - 81 "12 100-00 In the humerus, also, was found 10-54 per cent, of fat. Specific gravity of the bone, 0-612. Davy found in 100 parts from the tibia of a rickety child, 74 parts animal and 2G earthy ; and Bostock, in a vertebra affected with the same disease, 79'73 animal, and 20'25 earthy, in 100 parts. When this is contrasted with the norma proport ions of the osseous constituents in the child, as given by Schreger— viz. 47"20 parts animal, and 48-48 earthy (or about one half