PLACENTA — (Normal Anatomy). 717 Partly within its substance is formed an in- complete sinus, the circular vein or sinus. This constitutes an interrupted channel, which more or less encircles the placenta. Several orifices are observed in its walls. Some com- municate directly with the interior of the pla- centa, and others with the uterine sinuses. Substance.—When a clean section has been made through the placenta {fig. 484.), the two surfaces already described are observed to enclose between them a soft spongy sub- stance, which is made up principally of count- less ramifications of the fcetal villi. These are attached at their base to the chorion, from Fig. 484. Vertical section of the walls of the uterus with the placenta attached. From a woman in the thirtieth week of gestation. (After Wagner.) The length of the lines uu, serves to distinguish the uterus; />, the placenta, and dd, the decitl.ua. To the right of the figure the decidua is separated into ud, uterine decidua, and dp, decidual prolongations which form the dissepiments dividing the placenta into lobes;/, funis; am, amnion; ch, chorion; vf, foetal blood-vessels (divided) upon the surface of the placenta; vv, villi; us, uterine sinuses; a a, curling arteries in the substance of the uterus. which they spring, while their opposite extre- mities are united to the decidual layer form- ing the uterine boundary of the placenta. The interspaces left between the villi and their ramifications form what have been termed the cells of the placenta. They are widest between the roots of the villi, and much smaller between their extremities. In these spaces the maternal blood circulates. When injections are thrown into the placenta from the uterine arteries or veins, these spaces become filled, and the mass, when broken, exhibits a peculiar granular appearance. Dip- ping down among the villi, and reaching in some cases as far as the fcetal surface of the placenta, are numerous sheet-like prolonga- tions of decidua (fig. 484. dp). These con- stitute the dissepiments which separate the entire mass into its several lobes or cotyle- dons. At the placental margin, the decidual layer generally dips under the villi, forming a return end or border, which is directed in- wards, and is attached at a distance of 3—4'// from the margin to the outer surface of the chorion. The exact relation of the decidua to the villi, in various parts of the placenta, will be better understood after a more minute description has been given of each of these structures. The tufts and villi. — A placental tuft has been often compared to a tree. It con- sists of a trunk giving off' numerous branches, which ultimately end in finer subdivisions or villi {fig. 484. vv and Jig. 485. a). The trunks may be said to take root in the cho- rion, from which they spring, while the branches and finer subdivisions spread la- terally and upwards, until they come into contact, at their sides, with the adjacent tufts and villi, and above with the decidua which bounds the placenta towards the uterus. Many of the villi, instead of branching like trees, proceed thread-like from the floor to the roof of the placenta, only sending oft' short knotty side branches. The tufts are so closely set, that their forms cannot be readily discerned until they are floated out in water. The stems are tough and fibrous, or coriaceous, while the branches and finer villi, though strong, are of a more brittle texture. When one of these is broken off, and examined by the microscope, it presents the following characteristics — the subdivi- sions are abrupt, contorted, and singularly