172 PELVIS. directed outwards, the knee always bent, and the body trailing. They walk on the fore and hinder legs alternately, and leap by a sudden flexion of the body. The pelvis of the Anourous Batrachia is interesting from the changes which affect it, in their transition from the ichthycic to the quadrupedal condition. The sacrum of the Frog {fig- 111. A and n) is considered by Duges to be formed by the last dorsal vertebra, which closely re- sembles the preceding ones, except in having very long and strong transverse processes (c), to the tips of which the ilia are moveably arti- culated. In the Rana pvpa and Toad, how- ever, the sacrum presents evident indications of a division into two vertebra?, there being on each side a foramen for nerves, with two prismatic and very rough transverse pro- cesses. The coccyx of the Frog is composed of two pieces ( f), which, in the adult state, are ankylosed together and to the sacrum, and considered by some to form part of that bone. They are formed, respectively, from three points of ossification. In addition to these there is a long cylindrical terminal spinous or btyloid process (g), which is formed by a single separate ossific point, and becomes ankylosed so the other part at the adult period. This is tonsidered by some to be a second sacrum, end by others a coccyx. It has been supposed ay Duges to cause, by its progressive ossific development, the mortification and dropping oft" of the tail at the period of transition from the tadpole condition, and thus closing up the spinal canal posteriorly. Fig. 111. A, anterior view of the Frog's pelvis; B, side view of the same bones; C, pelvic bones and fins of Trout. The ilia (b) are very long and cylindrical, and directed backwards.becoming almost horizontal in the liana pipa. They suspend between them, by their apices, the long transverse processes and body of the sacrum, like the springs of a coach. At their opposite extremities tney are ankylosed, not only with the ischia and pubes, but unth each other (/;) ; and thus the acetabula, of which they form the greatest portion, are closely approximated, and the pelvic outlet assumes a V shape with the base at the sacrum and the angle at the coalesced ex- tremities of the ilia. The pubes and ischia of both sides are coalesced together in an azygos osseous plate , (e), with a central rounded crest marking the position of the symphysis (d), the pubes being the last to ossify. There is no foramen obturatorium. The posterior outlet of the Frog's pelvis looks almost directly upwards, and the anus opens, at the extremity of the coccygeal spine, upon the dorsal aspect of the animal. In the immature Batrachian a triangular- shaped cartilage intervenes between the op- posing ilia and the other pelvic bones in the acetabula, which afterwards becomes oblite- rated by the ankylosis of the bones. Duges calls it an " os paracotyleal," analogous to the " paraglenal" bone of the shoulder of the same animal. There are also epiphysial pieces on the ilia and ischia which represent the crest and tuberosity of those bones respectively. The solidity and firmness of union of the ischio-pubic portion of the pelvis in the frog is a remarkable instance of modification and adaptation of form to meet the requirements for a strong and firm hold for the powerful triceps cruris, external obturator, hamstring, and ad- ductor muscles in the thigh of this animal. The single pair of glutei also obtain an ex- tensive attachment from the long ilia, and the pyriformes from the long coccygeal spine, while the strong abdominal muscles, acting on the moveable ilia, give, as it were, an additional segment to the hinder extremities. In this manner the frog's pelvis is strikingly and di- rectly adapted to its leaping progression. In the Fishes the pelvic structures dwindle to elementary pieces, such as we have men- tioned in the bimanal and apodal Reptiles, and finally disappear altogether. The pelvis is represented in these animals by two bones, sometimes coalesced into an azygos bone, which support the ventral fins. In the Pisces ihoracici these are suspended by ligament to the coracoids, by which they are advanced anterior to the pectoral fins, and connected to the head; but in the Pisces abdominales they are detached from the coracoids, and are suspended in the muscles at the posterior part of the ab- domen. They are, however, subject to great diversity of position. Owen considers the pelvic bones of fishes to be the homologues of the pubes ; but, in the opinion of Cams, they are to be considered as ilia. Their inferior and ventral position, then- occasional union in a symphysis, their frequent coalescence, and their attachment to the generative organs, however, would support rather the conclusion of Professor Owen ; the support of the bones of the extremities not being exclusively the iliac attribute, but also