631 UTERUS — (Normal Anatomy). s s 4 be observed, this distinction in a great mea- sure vanishes under the application of the microscope. Peritoneal coat. — The outer serous coat, which constitutes the thinnest of the three component tissues of the uterus, is formed of the centre of the principal fold of the broad ligament, which is closely applied to the uterine body and fundus, and to a portion of its neck. It is of great importance to the com- prehension of certain points in the pathology of the uterus, to be hereafter considered, that the relations of this peritoneal covering to the proper structures of the organ, as well as to adjacent parts, should be accurately deter- mined. The most important of these rela- tions are shown in Jig. 433., representing a vertical section of the pelvis and its con- tents. In this view the reflexions of peri- toneum over the centre of the uterus are shown. The membrane, after lining the abdominal walls, and covering the fundus, and a portion of the posterior surface of the bladder, is suddenly arrested in its descent at a point very nearly opposite to, but some- times a little below the internal os uteri, and therefore about the seat of junction of the body with the neck of the uterus. Here the membrane forms a sharp fold or angle, and becomes immediately applied to the anterior face of the uterine body, while the cervix, which lies in great part, if not entirely, below this level is left uninvested. The peritoneum, then, after ascending over the anterior uterine wall, covers the fundus and sides of the organ, and descending upon the posterior surface, it remains closely adherent to the tissues be- neath, until it reaches the level of the anterior point of reflexion. At this point the perito- neum becomes much more loosely connected with the uterus by the interposition of a quantity of lax connective tissue which inter- venes between it and the posterior cervical wall (Jig. 433,g). The membrane, however, still descends, covering first the posterior wall of the supra-vaginal portion of the cervix, and then a part of the fornix, or upper end of the vagina. The extent of peritoneal covering which the vagina receives, varies in different subjects from half an inch to nearly an inch. The membrane then, as before, turns upwards, but at a more obtuse angle, to invest the rec- tum, so that a pouch is formed, termed the recto-vaginal or retro-uterine pouch, which is sometimes of considerable size. The adhesion of the peritoneum to the uterus is closest along the median line, and over the whole of the fundus, at which points its separation by dissection from the tissues beneath cannot be effected without the aid of prolonged maceration ; but towards either side of the organ the connection is less inti- mate, so that here the membrane may be made to glide to a limited extent over the sub-lying structures. At the two upper uterine angles the peritoneum is continued on to the uterine appendages ; viz., the Fal- lopian tubes, round ligaments and ligaments of the ovaries. After sending off extensions to invest these parts, the portions of mem- brane which cover the anterior and posterior faces of the uterus respectively come nearly into apposition along the lateral borders of the organ (Jig. 427.), where they are con- joined by a quantity of lax fibrous tissue, which serves to bind them loosely together, and at the same time to give support and protection to the numerous blood vessels entering the uterus on either side along the whole of this border. A similar portion of lax fibrous tissue serves to connect the anterior wall of the uterine cervix, where it is uncovered by peri- toneum with the posterior surface of the bladder, with which it lies in contact. The sectional views of the uterus in three directions already given serve to explain the whole of the relations of the outer or peri- toneal coat of the uterus to the muscular or proper coat. Fig. 426. shows the mode of attachment of this membrane to the anterior and posterior surface and fundus along the median line, and also the parts which are left uncovered by peritoneum. Commencing from the os uteri the vaginal portion of the cervix forming the anterior lip (a) receives an investment of mucous membrane as far as its point of at- tachment to the anterior wall of the vagina (v a). Beyond this the whole of the remain- ing portion of the anterior wall of the cervix, measuring above one inch in length (bb), is left uncovered either by mucous or serous membrane. At the termination of this space the peritoneum, reflected oft' from the bladder, reaches the uterus, and after investing the organ, is continued down to and beyond the fornix of the vagina (f ). But at this point the mass of loose connective tissue before re- ferred to separates the peritoneum from the posterior cervical wall to a great extent (e), while finally a much larger portion of the cer- vix is contained within the vagina, posteriorly than anteriorly, and is consequently covered by mucous membrane(p), because the vaginal walls are attached at a much higher point here than anteriorly. Fig. 431. serves to exhibit the relations of the peritoneum to the fundus, and the absence of that membrane from the lateral borders of the uterus, while figs. 427.—430. exhibit the relative proportions of the covered and un- covered parts as seen in a series of horizontal sections of different portions of the organ. The middle or smooth-muscular coat, upon which depends the remarkable firmness and solidity of the uterus, constitutes the prin- cipal bulk of the organ. This coat upon sec- tion appears of a pale pink colour, mottled with irregular white lines, and permeated by vessels which are particularly numerous near its lateral borders. The following are the compo- nent tissues of the middle uterine coat, viz.:— 1st. Smooth-muscular Jibrcs. — These are found in every portion of this coat, and con- sist of fusiform fibres of the kind termed by Kolliker contractile fibre-cells, in which a single elongated oval nucleus may be occa-