OVUM. 18 for that of gemmation which takes place throughout the whole of the summer.* The ova of Hydra are simple vesicular cap- sules of a brownish colour formed in the sub- stance of the wall of the animal's body, and separated from it previous to the development of the young ; while the spermatic filaments are formed in smaller conical capsules placed nearer to the base of the tentacula either in the same or in different individuals.-)- The for- mation of the young Polype has been observed by Laurent j to take place directly from the internal substance of the ovum, in which, how- ever, he has not traced in a sufficiently complete manner the individual steps of the changes of development (see fig. 1 I.e.). The origin of the ovum in this animal is shown to be quite dif- ferent from that of a bud : the former having the shape of a distinct vesicle from an early period, the latter not being perceptibly more than an extension of some part of the sub- stance of the wall of the body, and precisely of the same colour and structure (sec fig. 11. d,d'.). The Hydra, therefore, while propagating very frequently by gemmation, is capable of reproduction also by fecundated ova, which are directly developed into the parental form. But many of the true Compound Polypes pre- sent examples, in their multiplication by gem- mation, of the production of intermediate forms of animals between the ova and the perfect sexual individual, — a mode of repro- duction, therefore, which may be referred to Steenstrup's general law of Alternate Gene- rations. Thus, to begin with the simplest form of these animals bearing the nearest resemblance to the Hydra, in the Coryne and Syncoryne, at certain seasons of the year, multiplication takes place from the stem or root by gemma- tion, the buds being developed in the form of attached Polypes ; but at other times there are developed from the buds, without the con- currence of sexual organs, a set of delicate Medusa-like animals, similar to the Oceania, or those of the naked-eyed kind : these soon be- come detached, swim about freely in the water, acquire some of them male -and others female sexual organs, and produce fecundated ova. * This effect of the cold season in changing the mode of production from gemmation to oviparous formation, thus checking growth, but providing for the preservation of the species through the winter, is, as remarked by Dr. Carpenter, an interesting ana- logy with the change that is known to occur in the mode of production of the Aphis insect; see Prin- ciples of Physiology. f The co-existence of ovigerous and spermigerous capsules on the body of the Hydra has been observed by many, as, first by B. de Jussieu, in 1743 ; (Ab- hand. der Swed. Acad. 1746, vol. viii. p. 211): by Trembley, in 1744 (Me'm. sur les Polypes d'Eau douce) ; by Bbsel (Insecten-Belustigung) ; Pallas, in 1776 (Karakteristik der Thier-pflanzen, p. 53); and more recently by Ehrenberg, in 1836 and 1838 (Verhand. der Naturforsch. Freundejin Berlin, 1838, p. 14) ; V.Siebold (Lehrbuch der Vergleich. Anat.) ; and by myself (Edin. New Phil. Journ. 1847). J Nouv. Rech. sur les Hydres d'Eau douce, 1844, Voyage de la Bonite. These ova give rise, by their development, to a ciliated moving embryo : this soon becomes fixed to a spot, and is gradually converted into a Polype, similar to that from which the Medusa-like animals were formed.* Fig. 12. Syncoryne, developing a 3Iechisoid progeny. Ocecmia (From Desor.} A, natural size. B, a portion enlarged, showing the budding of Medusokls in different stages. c, one of the Medusoids, naturally detached. r>, another, farther advanced; o t, ovary, or tes- ticle, placed on the alimentary canal; o', ova. R. Wagner appears to have been the first to observe Medusoid bodies produced from the Polype animals, as in Coryne aculeata, in 1833+, but the more full observation of the remarkable phenomenon of their formation is due to the researches of Sars, Lovven, Steen- strup, and Van Beneden, who have ascertained the relations of the Polype larva and Medusoid progeny, and the production of ova from the latter. DujardinJ has also carefully traced the production of the free Medusoid bodies from a Syncoryne, which he has called Stauridia, and has farther ascertained the sexual condition of these Medusoids, observed the formation of their ova, and the subsequent development of these ova into Polypes. * See fig. of Syncoryna Sarsii, from Sars, Fauna Litt. Norveg. 1846; and Steenstrup's figures of Coryne fritillaria, tab. 1. figs. 41.43, and Desor, in Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1840, pi. 2. figs. 13. to 16. t Isis for 1833, p. 256. Also in Coryne vulgaris, in Icones Zootom. Tab. xxi. 1841. J Annal. des Sc. Nat. 1845.