461 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. * Op. cit. p. 607. * Muller's Archiv. 1845, p. 423. et seq. view that its movements depend upon these parts is chiefly founded, are explained by Volkmann as taking place by reflex action through the medium of the sympathetic gan- glia. The fibres which pass from the spinal cord to the ganglia stand to the proper sym- pathetic fibres arising in these in the same relation in which the ordinary sensory fibres stand to the motor fibres of the muscles of animal life. A conclusive way of determining whether the movements of the heart, as well as the order in which these take place,depend, or not, upon the ganglia contained in its substance, would be to ascertain whether they still con- tinue after the ganglia have been extirpated. These, however, are so small, and apparently so numerous, as to render such an experiment impossible. That the continuance of these movements after the brain and spinal cord is destroyed, as well as when the heart is re- moved from the body, cannot be attributed to mere irritability of the muscular fibres acted on by the stimulus of the blood or of the atmo- spheric air, but must be connected with nervous influence, is rendered probable by several circumstances, but especially by the observation first made by Henry, and after- wards by Miiller*, that solution of opium or of other narcotic substances, when applied to the outer surface of the heart, does not produce any obvious alteration in its action, whereas when introduced into its cavities so as to be brought into contact with its inner surface, their almost immediate effect is to cause this to cease. Again, when stimulus is applied to one of the ventricles of a heart which has just ceased pulsating, the contraction thereby produced does not commence at the point irritated, as might be expected were the irritability of the muscular fibres alone con- cerned, but in the auricles, and is followed by contraction of the ventricles. Sometimes, indeed, stimulus applied to the ventricles is followed by contraction of the auricles alone. Even when the stimulus is applied to the apex of the organ, the contraction still com- mences in the auricles, and sometimes limits itself to these. The regular order in which its movements take place, so different from those produced in the ordinary muscles by direct application of external stimuli, would imply that the impulse by which they are produced must be conveyed in a certain de- finite direction to the different muscular parts of which the heart is composed ; and this can only be supposed to be effected through the medium of its nerves. The mere arrangement of the muscular fibres of the heart seems in- sufficient to account either for the general contraction of auricles and ventricles or for the order in which these succeed one another. If, in the case of the heart, the contraction of a single bundle of the muscular fibres may act as a stimulus to the neighbouring fibres, by which they also are excited to contraction, the same thing ought to take place in the muscles of animal life : the bundles in these, though presenting a different arrangement from those in the heart, are, notwithstanding, in as close contact with one another as are the latter, and have equal facility for stimulating the neighbouring bundles to contraction. The dependence of the rhythmical movements of the heart upon a certain arrangement of its nerves, and moreover that there are certain portions of the same from which the stimuli to contraction proceed, is further indicated by the effects, as shown by Volkmann, which follow incisions made into the heart's sub- stance. When a transverse incision is made through the heart, between its auricles and ventricles, the former have been found to continue their contractions much longer than the latter ; and if a longitudinal incision be made gradually proceeding from apex to base, the rhythm is preserved in both portions until the heart has been divided half' way; when the incision is continued further, however, the movements of either part become irregular. When the ventricle is divided transversely into two portions, that towards the apex either ceases its contractions immediately or con- tinues the same only for a short time, whereas that which is still in connection with the auricles goes on contracting as before. It has also been observed that in the heart of the frog there is one portion of the septum between the auricles which continues its con- tractions much longer than any other part; and in this portion the greatest number of the cardiac ganglia and nerves are situated. It was also observed by Kolliker that the trans- verse groove in the frog's heart in like manner exercised a marked influence on its rhythmical contractions ; and here also the ganglionic corpuscles and nerves are very abundant. In young kittens and rabbits also, Valentin has likewise observed that the groove in question affects the movements of the heart very much. The opinion of Volkmann, therefore, that the rhythmic contractions of the heart are connected with a nervous centre, and more- over that this nervous centre is the sympa- thetic ganglia contained in the heart's sub- stance, seems highly probable. At the same time there cannot be the least doubt that an influence may be exercised over these move- ments by the central masses of the nervous system. Intestinal canal. CEsopliagus.— The oeso- phagus receives nerve-fibres both from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. The former is, according to Longet*, the source of its sensibility as well as of its motion, while the sympathetic presides over the secretion of the mucus with which its inner surface is lubri- cated. Valentin, however, as mentioned by Longet, found, on irritating the cervical por- tion of the main cord of the sympathetic in the rabbit, that movements were pro- duced in the middle portion of the oeso- phagus ; and contractions were also produced in the thoracic portion of the same tube when the inferior cervical ganglion or either of the first four thoracic ganglia was irritated.