STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 357 A A 3 bowel by reflected light, at a place corre- sponding to a cluster of agminate follicles, we see that its surface (which is raised above the rest of the intestine, but has no very sharp line of demarcation from it) is occu- pied by a number of irregular shallow de- pressions (J>,fig- 267.), at tolerably uniform dis- tances from each other. But when inspected by transmitted light, these fossa? are replaced Fig. 268. Agminate follicles as seen by transmitted lit/lit. Mag- nified about 5 diameters. {After Boehm.) a, general mucous surface of the ileum ; b, b, opaque grains corresponding to the several follicles. by comparatively opaque grains (b}b,fig. 268.), of about the size of a millet seed ; the aggre- gation of which renders the whole cluster very distinctly visible by this mode of exami- nation. Finally, the cluster may often be recognised externally, from the bulging of the peritoneal coat which it causes in this situa- tion. Indeed, its constituent follicles may sometimes be seen glimmering through the delicate muscular tunic. Each such cluster is composed of a number of follicles, varying from twenty or thirty in the smaller, to at least one or two hundred in the larger, specimens. A careful examination of the mucous surface shows that the depressions just mentioned do not lead to any apertures, but are terminated by a smooth surface, the convexity of which somewhat diminishes their own depth. It is only at the margins, and in the intervals, of these fossas, that we find the tubes and villi proper to the small in- testine. And both of these latter structures are somewhat modified. Those tubes which immediately surround each depression have a circular or elliptical arrangement ; so that their orifices generally form a ring of ten to twenty tubes in the fossa (around a, fig. 269.), and thus give rise to a very characteristic appearance.* In like manner, the villi in their immediate neigh- bourhood often appear to radiate outwards Fig. 269. Portion of a cluster of agminate follicles, a, a, follicles encircled by apertures of the intes- tinal tubes in the form of a ring ; b, short and ob- tuse villi, occupying the intervals of the follicles; c, apertures of intestinal tubes, opening irregularly in these intervals. from a point corresponding to the centre of the fossa. And both they, and those more equidistant to the several follicles, are very different from the villi seen elsewhere : — being fewer (b,fig. 269; a, Jig. 270.), shorter, of more irregular form, and often confluent at their bases. To demonstrate the structure and arrange- ment of the several constituent follicles of the agminate clusters, requires great care, and very delicate manipulation. At the free surface of the mucous membrane, they are extremely difficult to isolate; both from their great tenuity, and their intimate union to the neighbouring tubes. Hence the best way of gaining access to them is from the outside of the intestine, where they may often be seen through the peritoneal and mus- cular coats.f The removal of these tunics brings them directly into view. To this method of examination must be added care- ful section in the vertical and horizontal planes. A proper combination of all these methods of investigation reveals the following facts.— Each follicle is a shut sac : having a roundish form, but a somewhat conical apex, which is directed towards the surface of the mucous membrane. Their diameter varies from 1 to 2 or 3-50ths of an inch. The base of each is in contact with the muscular coat (which is somewhat thinned in this situation) ; and is united to it by an areolar tissue that resembles the ordinary loose sub-mucous texture, in which the follicle is imbedded by the greater part of its bulk. The short apex of the follicle extends upwards between the lower extremities of the intestinal tubes : and, below their middle, it terminates in the immediate neighbourhood of the general mucous surface, which has already been * This appearance is somewhat incompatible with that seen in a vertical section. Hence it is perhaps partially due to pressure or over-distentiou of the follicle. •)■ Especially after having been rendered opaque by soaking in dilute acids, which coagulate their contents.