298 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. projecting into its cavity. Its interior surface is folded and villous. The whole structure appears to be connected with a kind of chy- lous absorption. The alimentary canal of the Epizoa differs from that of the cavitary Entozoa, in being generally surrounded by a glandular mass, the function of which is probably hepatic. The Cirripeda have prehensile jaws, and a ter- minal mouth and anus. In some, the canal has a gastric dilatation. Hepatic follicles, similar to those already described, occur here also. And St. Ange and Serres have found a tube analogous to the typhlosole. The digestive tube of the Crustacea may be reduced to two chief forms, which corre- spond with other differences in the nature and structure of their possessors. Thus in those lower Crustaceans which are suctorial and para- sitic, the canal is a very simple one. A proboscis conceals a pair of lancet teeth, and is followed by a straight intestine, around which are clustered a dense mass of follicles, supposed to constitute a liver. The higher Crustaceans possess a complicated apparatus of forceps and jaws. A short oesophagus leads to a large spherical cavity, which occupies the head of the animal, and which, although sometimes called a stomach, contains hard structures that render it analogous to a gizzard. A well- marked constriction separates this organ from the intestine, which is sometimes simple and nearly straight, sometimes divided into two portions distinguished by a projecting valve. The liver is conglomerate, and divided into lobules. Rarely, one or two caecal tubes are also present. The alimentary canal of the Insect offers what are rather varieties of development than any regular transition, such as we have remarked in some of the preceding orders: — varieties which the metamorphosis of the larva at present seems to complicate instead of ex- plain. In the larva, the canal is comparatively simple, and somewhat approaches the condi- tion seen in the \ovier Annelida; being a straight tube, with a mouth and anus at opposite ends of the body. In many Hymenopterous larvas, the latter aperture is absent. In others it is only developed towards the end of this stage of life, when an excrement — or meconium as we may perhaps call it—is for the first time expelled. But though such an intestine might seem to resemble that of the anen- terous Infusory, or the hydriform Polyp, we must recollect that it differs from these in the important fact of its not being used for the double purpose of ingestion and egestion. The complications of the above simple canal relate chiefly to its subdivision,and to the addi- tion of blind tubes. A gastric dilatation is the first to appear ; its extremities then become constricted, and its calibre enlarged. An oeso- phagus, a crop or ingluvies, a small and a large intestine, may also be added. Sometimes the supposed stomach is transversely divided into two cavities, and complicated by short casca. In other instances, longer tubes open into the same part of the canal. While in others, they open into the intestine below this point; and are hence presumed to be biliary. In the perfect Insect the varieties of form are still more numerous and perplexing. Besides the complicated prehensile and dental apparatus, there is often an oesophagus, a crop, a muscular gizzard, a stomach, a small intestine, a large intestine, and a narrower rectum. But development is manifested, not only by differ- ences in the diameter and structure of dif- ferent lengths of the tube itself, but also by its complication, through the addition of supple- mentary organs of a more or less tubular form. The ingluvies or crop is present in many but not all of the suctorial genera. It is sometimes distinctly glandular. And even where, as in the Bee, this character is less prominent, it is still probably a secreting organ. But its uses seem to be mainly those of accu- mulation. The gizzard is generally added to the former organ. It is characterized by distinct mus- cularity, and a more or less hard or horny epithelium, which is often developed into plates, protuberances, hairs, or teeth. Some- times it is only rudimentary: — a toothed oesophagus subserving its functions in some insects; while in others, it is reduced to a mere thickening of the muscular wall of this part of the canal. The stomach is also of various form and size. In some insects it is simple; in others it is more or less plicated or cellulated, or its cells are even prolonged into short caeca. The peculiarities of the remaining subdivi- sions of the canal are chiefly those of their length and width, and in the degrees of con- striction by which they are separated from each other. As yet, however, it has been found im- possible to make out any intimate connection between these differences in the anatomy of the tube and the habits of the animal possess- ing it. Indeed, the general relations of this kind seen in other orders often seem to be interrupted or even reversed in the insects. The numerous tubes which open into the intestinal canal present still more diver- sity. They are often named salivary, biliary, or urinary organs. Thus those tubes which open into the earlier part of the intestinal cavity are called salivary ; those which empty themselves into the commencement of the small intestine are regarded as biliary; and, finally, those which open into the canal at or near its termination, are considered urinai-}'. It is only the first of these that, after many grada- tions, fairly attain the glandular development which a conglomerate condition implies. The second vary chiefly in number, and in the fre- quency of their anastomosis. The third are rarely vesicular in shape. The digestive canal of the Arachnida offers, on the whole, more uniformity. The chief divisions of this order are the parasitic, the spiders, and the scorpions. All are " carni- vorous :"—a term which here, as often else- where, is only approximatively correct; since most of them do not devour the flesh, but