54G UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. influence, especially during pregnancy, upon other parts and organs. The diseases and accidents to which it is liable are more nu- merous, and are attended by greater danger to life than those which affect any other portions of these structures, whilst its several morbid states, as well as its natural condition, may be ascertained during life with a degree of precision which virtually removes the ute- rus from the category of internal parts. But it is only in a practical or obstetric point of view that the uterus can be regarded as the most important of the generative organs. Physiologically considered, it is by no means entitled to the foremost place ; for although the presence of the uterus is neces- sary to the completion of the generative act in its regular course, yet reproduction to a certain extent may be accomplished without it. The uterus is necessary to reproduction, first, as atfbrding the only channel by which the seminal fluid can obtain access to the ovum; and next, as constituting, together with the vagina, the only natural passage for the exit of the fully matured ovum, which re- quires this contractile organ to effect its expulsion by that passage : such expulsion not being essential to the generative act be- cause the foetus may be extracted by the Cae- sarean section without necessary loss of life either of the parent or offspring, while other parts—the Fallopian tubes for example—may, to a certain extent, perform the offices of a uterus in all that relates to the protection and nutrition of the ovum. Moreover, the entire removal of the uterus may have no other effect upon the individual than that of pre- venting impregnation and menstruation by the simple abstraction of the parts necessary thereto. On the other hand, the ovary, though con- stituting only a small portion of the repro- ductive organs, is nevertheless that part to which all the rest are subservient. It is the organ which furnishes the generative element essential to the reproductive act. It is that part which, in a great measure, regulates the growth of the body, and determines the dis- tinctive characters of the sex. It is the organ upon the presence of which depends the sexual passion and the process of menstru- ation ; whose congenital deficiency is indicated by the absence externally of all signs of a secondary sexual character ; whose artificial removal entirely unsexes the individual, and the decline of whose functional activity, as age advances, is the cause of the generative faculty being lost in the female long before the ordinary term of life has expired, and at Fig. 368. Uterins and appendages of an adult virgin, posterior aspect. {Ad Aat.) a, uterus; bb, ovary; cc, Fallopian tube or oviduct; dd, fimbriated extremity or infundibulum of the tube; ee, terminal bulb of the duct of jUuller; /'/, portion of broad ligament and blood-vessels; g, vaginal portion of cervix uteri; h, os uteri ex- ternum ; £, anterior and /, posterior wall of vagina ; m, ligumentum ovarii, z», tubo-ovarian ligament. Fig. 368.