290 RESPIRATION. gill-bearing arches are not composed of single undivided curved bones, but of several ele- ments, adjusted with express reference to the elasticity and flexibility of the whole. Six of these arches are primarily developed, and five permanently retained. The first four support gills, the fifth is beset with teeth which guard the opening of the gullet: this latter is termed the pharyngeal arch; the rest the branchial arches. From the convex side of the branchial arches a double series of interlocking penknife-shaped processes radiate. On the flat surfaces of these pro- cesses a gorgeous arrangement of mem- branous leaflets is disposed in a transverse manner, each leaflet standing, as already de- scribed,on its edge(fig. 237.). This rich foliage, bearing the complex web of the respiratory capillaries, is itself sustained by a machinery of elastic solid parts, hitherto unknown in comparative anatomy. The series of curvilinear bones denomin- nated the arches of the branchiae, and exhi- bited in section at a, Jig 237., are inferiorly attached to the sternal chain of bones, pro- ceeding upwards and backwards, and describ- ing a curve, which in different genera varies in degrees of sharpness, and which finally affix themselves by means of ligaments to the base of the cranial bones. These curved bones are constructed of several separable pieces, adjusted with artful reference to the resilient properties of the curvilinear figure. The act of opening the mouth in the fish deter- mines a consecutive series of movements, which end in the preparation of the gills to be traversed by the branchial current. By an appropriate intervening mechanism the move- ments of protruding and retracting the mouth occasion irrespectively the approximation and separation of the branchial processes, accom- panied by an alternate increase and decrease of the curvature of the sustaining arch. The straight penknife-shaped processes (1, 2. fig. 239. .r.),as stated, diverge from the convex- ities of the branchial arches. In nearly ail the osseous fishes, these processes form a double series, the gills being accordingly dis- tinguished as biserial. In those genera in which these processes form a single line the gills are said to be uniserial. In the genera cottus (bull-heads), labroidce (rock-fish or wrasses), sebastes, (Norway haddock), scorpaenidye (hog-fish), Teidae (John Dory, &c), the nilotic-fishes, polipterm, gobroidae (blennies and gobies), lepadogasthlte, a genus of small sucker-fishes), and the cyclopteridaj or lump-fishes, may be ranged under one great group, characterised by three biserial and one uniserial gill. The genera sophiida? (angler), batrachoidue, the tetraodons (or globe-fish), Owen on Fishes : Rymer Jones's Animal Kingdom ; Article Pisces, in this work, by Prof. R. Jones; Art. Skeleton, by Mr. Maclise. I wish only here to observe, that the branchial arches appertain to the apparatus of the visceral skeleton, and in antero- posterior order succeed the b void arch, on the key- stone of which they are more or less dependant, and the altered configuration, of which they more or less follow. the diodons (commonly called the sea porcu- pines), and that curious genus of monop- terus found on the seas of the Molluccas, the gill opening in which is united by transverse partitions of membrane, are characterised by three symmetrical biserial gills. Other le^s regular genera present other diversities in the disposition of the branchial processes * The penknife-shaped processes (fig. 237.), which radiate from the convexities of the branchial arches are bony in the osseous fishes; but only that part of the solid basis of the process is bony which corresponds with and forms the substance of its blunt or thick margin. In the cartilaginous orders this por- tion is composed of cartilage, the component cells as well as the outline of which are very dissimilar to those of the former class. As in- dicated in the above illustration, that piece in the skeleton of the branchial process which forms the obtuse border exhibits a groove seen sectionally at (A, fig. 237.), serving for the lodgement of the processal branch (g) of the branchial artery. The internal edge of this bony piece is dentated by pro- jecting spines, adapted perfectly to support Fig. 238. Plan exhibiting the sheletal framework of the lamellae of the gills of Fish in transverse section. (Ori- ginal) a, shows the osseo-cartilage of the obtuse margin of the lamella, presenting three distinct varieties of component cells, and on the external edge opening into a groove for the lodgment of the branchial artery a', from which, on either side, the ultimate rainusculi, emptying themselves into the rete mira- bile of the leaflets, may be seen to proceed; b and c, e', define the beautiful framework which lies pa- rallel with the acute border of the lamella, the lateral processes c, c1 stretching on either side along the circumference of the membranous leaflets, pre- venting, by their continuously acting elasticity, the injurious folding of the latter, and, therefore, the tangling of the respiratory web of capillaries. The extremities of these processes are produced by means of the curled elastic fibres shown in the plan. The dotted lines define the area of the re- spiratory membranous leaflets supporting the ca- pillary network. * See Yarrel on British Fishes; Lecons d'Ana- tomie Comparee, par M. Cuvier; Owen's Lec- tures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. ii.; Monro, on the Structure and Physiology of Fishes, 1785; Art. Pisces, in this Cyclopaedia; Wagner's Ana- tomy of Vertebrated Animals, by Tulk, 1845.