536 RUMINANTIA. marked constrictions, corresponding to folds an enormously distended coil of intestine bent of the lining mucous membrane ; and thus into the figure of an italic S. In the typical subdivided, the viscus resembles, as it were, species the internal surface is densely beset Fig. 359. Composite storm with villi ; these give to the membrane a pe- culiarly rough aspect, and at different portions of the cavity their form is curiously modified. Usually they are remarkably prominent, pe- dunculated, more or less club-shaped and compressed; or they may be tapering and pyrif'orm. In some localities their size is insignificant, and they almost disappear at the margins of the salient folds. In the Gi- raffe we find their dimensions strikingly uni- form at one spot, while, in another region great irregularity in this respect is observable; the same remark holds good in other horned species, where the deviations from this type are too slight to merit a separate notice. The organisation of the paunch in the Camelidae differs very materially from that of the ordinary ruminant. Instead of presenting a rough internal surface, crowded with villosities, the mucous membrane is conspicuously smooth and entirely destitute of villi; but the most remarkable feature consists in the presence of numerous small pouches, specially fitted for the reception and retention of water (Jig. 360.). These Fig. 360. Water-cells in the paunch of the Camel. •h of the Sheep. sacs, which may be looked upon as so many diverticula developed from the walls of the cavity, are arranged in two distinct groups — one on the right side and the other on the left; the former being by far the larger, and in the adult Dromedary measuring about one foot and a half in length, and six inches in breadth (Meckel). The cells of each batch are disposed in parallel rows, separated from one another by strong muscular bundles, given off from a single large band of fibres which commences at the cardiac extremity of the rumen, and proceeds in a longitudinal direc- tion, dividing the entire cavity into two com- partments. The muscular fasiculi are arranged transversely, and give off secondary bundles at tolerably regular intervals, so that the rounded orifices of each sacculus are guarded by powerful square-shaped muscular sphinc- ters. Some of the cells are more complicated than others, being subdivided into numerous loculi by folds of the lining membrane. The largest of the reservoirs in the adult Drome- dary, when dilated, have a depth and width of about three inches. In the Llamas the structure of this apparatus, though more feebly indicated, is very similar to that of the Camels, properly so called. The second stomachal viscus (c,Jig. 359),— otherwise called the reticulum bonnet, or ivater-bag — has a globular outline, — is of much smaller dimensions than the paunch, and forms a sort of cul-de-sac between it and the third cavity. It originates in com- mon with the rumen, and like that organ may be regarded as a kind of hernial dilata- tion of the lower end of the oesophagus. By some it has been looked upon as a mere ap- pendage to the former, being continuous with it at the upper and anterior part, and sepa- rated only by a projecting membranous fold, precisely similar to those met with in the first cavity. In the typical species it is dis- tinguished internally by the presence of a multitude of acute-angled polygonal cells, and from this circumstance has been vulgarly