PELVIS. i + pieces or vertebrae of which the sacrum is com- The last of these, nnd sometimes the two lower, posed, the whole being called the sacral crest, are divided by a notch (lOj, which opens up Fig. 78. A, anterior surface and base of sacrum ; b, lateral and posterior view of the same hone; c, anterior surface and base of coccyx. the sacral canal at its inferior termination, where it is much compressed antero-poste- riorly. On each side of the sacral crest is a narrow vertical groove, corresponding to the vertebral lamina?, and bounded externally by four rough tubercles, the articular (4), the last of w hich are confounded with the bifurcated inferior spine, and project downwards in two inferior sacral horns (5), which are smoothed into facets posteriorly, to articulate with the coccyx. They correspond to the articular processes of the vertebra?. Immediately ex- ternal to them, and on the same level, are the tour 'posterior sacral foramina (6), of irregular size, but much smaller than the anterior, to which they are opposed in situation. The broad surfaces of bone between tliem present another continuous shallow vertical groove, external to which are three or four tubercles, the transverse (7), arranged vertically parallel with the holes, and corresponding to the tips of the transverse processes of the vertebra?. The highest of these are sometimes smoothed into a facet externally (8), by impinging upon the iliac tuberosity, and the fiurth (9) is al- ways the largest and most prominent for the attachment of the superficial posterior sacro- iliac ligaments. Close to the lateral boun- dary, opposite the two upper transverse tubercles, are two very rough, digital impres- sions for the insertion of powerful posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. The lateral surfaces of the sacrum b) are broad above, and taper gradually downwards. When opposite the two last sacral vertebra?, they become narrow borders (d). Above, at the three upper vertebrae, they oppose the inner surface of the ilia — below, they form the inner margin of the great sciatic notch. At the upper broader portion these surfaces are bevelled oft' pos- teriorly, the posterior surface of the bone being at this part narrower than the anterior, and its plane being less distinctly different from that of the lateral surfaces. It is over- hung by the tuberosities of the ilia. Close to the upper and anterior margins, occupying the two anterior thirds of the lateral aspect of the base, and extending as far downwards as the third sacral vertebra, at which point the anterior surface of the sacrum becomes, as before mentioned, broader, is a large, angular articular surface, the iliac or auricular (e), de- pressed along the centre, and exactly cor- responding to the shape and irregular surface of the opposing articular surface of the ilium with which this bone is here jointed. The salient angle corresponds to the rounded an- terior border of the lateral masses of the base, and the retiring angle, to the digital depres- sion at the edge of the posterior surface. Two prominent portions may be particularly observed on this articular facet, one at the salient angle (e) on the first sacral vertebra, and another at the termination of the in- ferior limb (f) on the third sacral vertebra. They correspond to similar depressions in the opposed ilium. The sacrum is traversed longitudinally down the middle, but nearer to the posterior than to the anterior surface, by the inferior termination of the spinal canal, which com- municates with the anterior and posterior sacral foramina, the terminal nerves of the cauda equina being contained and distributed within it. Internal structure of the sacrum. — The in- terior is composed of a closely reticulated mass of spongy bone, enclosed in thin, laminated surfaces. For its size, it is the lightest bone in the body, from being made up chiefly of cancellous structure. The lamina;, spines, and articular processes are, however, chiefly composed of dense bone.