24 OVUM. gregated ; the latter being not organically united like the compound polypes, but merely adher- ing more or less strongly to one another so as to form a chain. The aggregated, but not the solitary kind, possess sexual organs; and it ■would appear, though this is not yet deter- mined with certainty, that all the individuals of one chain are of a similar sex either male or female. Solitanj and aggregated Salpa. (From Sars.) a, solitary Salpa, with chain of aggregated ones, g, budding from it. b, this chain magnified, shewing the successive sets in different stages. c, one of the more advanced aggregated Salpae from a chain,/, the place of a foetus formed by sex- ual generation. d, foetus from another more advanced, magni- fied ; A, the yolk, by which it adhered to the pa- rent ; g, the place of the germ for the aggregated chain. All the individuals of a chain of aggregated Salpae are produced from a solitary one by a process of internal gemmation, or gradual deve- lopment from an internal stolon, or germ-stock, from which they are detached gradually and in successive groups : all the individuals of the chain are contained within a tube, and become united to each other after their development, presenting a series of groups of different de- grees of advancement ; but the individuals in each group being nearly at the same stage of development. The distinct or single Salpae, which, with the exception of the want of the sexual organs, do not differ materially from the in- dividuals of the aggregated chain, are produced from fecundated ova which are developed within the body of the parent. These ova differ from the germs from which the aggregated in- dividuals take their origin in the possession of a yolk, and external envelope. Their de- velopment proceeds to its termination within the parent body, and the young Salpa is already provided with the internal stolon for the gem- mation of its chain progeny, before it passes into its separate state of existence. The solitary Salpa? may be looked upon, therefore, probably as incomplete or larva forms, and the aggregated are the fully deve- loped sexual individuals. The generation of this animal, therefore, is precisely an example of that succession of two different kinds of individuals which has been distinguished as alternation of generations ; each fecundated ovum of the sexual individuals being developed into an animal which never acquires sexual organs, and which produces by a process ap- parently of the nature of gemmation, a nu- merous brood of individuals associated in a chain ; all of which are sexually perfect, one set developing only spermatozoa, and the females among them being the producers of the ova, which are the source of the new generation.* Although no other instances of alternate generation have yet been observed in the class of Mollusca, yet it is possible that modi- fications of this process may hereafter be dis- covered. An observation related by Agassizf, in regard to the development of the ovum in one of the Eolidae, deserves to be recorded, as it may be found to constitute an approach to the metagenetic process. After having de- scribed the usual process of division of the yolk in which the first stages of development consist, and the farther progress of formation in the Eolis, he says, — " But the most curious phenomenon which takes place is this ; that the whole yolk does not constantly go to form one single individual. But there may be instances when the mass of yolk, which has been subdivided into cells, is itself di- vided into two or three or more masses, which grow independently, several individual animals arising from one mass of yolk, which thus divides." Entozoa.— Among the Entozoa the process of reproduction is effected by very various means. All the Nematoidea, or round worms, are of distinct sexes; and their fecundated ova are developed into the parental form without any metamorphosis of a marked kind,' (ex- cepting perhaps in the Echinorrhynchi, the * See Savigny, Mem. sur les Anim. sans Verteb. 1816 ; Chamisso, De Salpis, 1819 ; Meyen, Ueber die Salpen; Eschricht, in the Isis, 1842; Sai'S, Fauna Littor. Norvegiae, 1846 ; Krohn, Ann. des Scien. Nat. Jul}', 1846 ; who first pointed out the existence of spermatozoa in certain individuals of the aggre- gated chain. f Lect. on Comparative Embryology, Boston, 1849, p. 81.