245 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). completely in their mode of germination. After lying a certain time on a damp surface, their inner cavities are found to be occupied by a number of small spherical cellules, each of which contains in its interior a spirally coiled fibre (antherozoid). By the dehis- cence of the valves of the external tegument, Fig. 179. Valvate dehiscence of microspore of Selaginella hel- vetica, six months after sowing, showing escape of anthsrozoids, 300 diam. the antherozoa are set free; and it is presumed, that it is by their agency that the archegornu.cn is fructified, after the prothallium has been laid bare by the bursting of the macrospore at its apex. 96. lihizocarpea.—In describing the mode of reproduction of the Rhizocarpea?, we shall confine our attention to the genus Pilularia, respecting which the most exact researches have been made. 97. The macrospore of Pilularia is an egg- shaped body, presenting an equatorial constric- tion. It consists of an internal proper mem- brane (endospore), the so-called embryo sac, Fig. 180. Section of macrospore of Pilularia some time after germination, 50 diam. a, two layers of the exospore, the outer, vertically striated, the inner, homogeneous; b, cavity of endospore hounded superiorly by the prothallium, the papilkeform summit of which projects through the canal of the exospore. which is surrounded by a white coriaceous exospore. This last exhibits two distinct layers, of which the internal is colourless and vitreous, without trace of structure ; while the external appears to be formed of prismatic columns fitting closely together, which are more distinct at the lower end of the spore, while they disappear entirely towards its smaller end or apex, at which point the exo- spore forms a papilliform projection open at its summit. From this arrangement there results a canal, which is immediately sur- rounded by the thickened and dentate margin of the vitreous layer, and leads to the apex of the endospore. 98. The prothallium.—The first indication of the commencement of the germination of the macrospore is the formation of a lenticular accumulation of granular plasma, at the sum- mit of the endospore, which had previously contained only starchy, mucous, or oleaginous granules. Soon after there appears in the same position a delicate cell of similar form, the upper surface of which is in contact with the endosporal membrane, and is immediately subjacent to the aperture in the exospore. It is in all probability from this cell, although the earlier stages of the development have not been clearly made out, that the prothallium takes its origin. A day or two after germina- tion it consists of a central cell, which is sur- rounded by a single layer of others of smaller dimensions. Four of these last are invariably found interposed between the upper surface of the large cell and the spore membrane ; the septa by which they are separated being per- pendicular, and at right angles to each other. Soon after the central cell itself divides by a transverse septum into two ; of these the upper, of globular form, contains a large ve- sicular nucleus, the future germ-cell. The lower, which is tabular, divides repeatedly by vertical septa, so as to form a single layer of cells which intervenes between the cavity of the archegonium and that of the spore. In the meantime the four cells which surmount 'Fig. 181. Vertical section of prothallium of the same at the period of impregnation, which passes through the axial canal of the archegonium, and exposes a, the germ-cell; b, cavity of macrospore ; b, outer, and c, inner layer of exospore, the apicial canal of which (§ 97.), it complete!}' occupies. the germ-cell extend upwards in the form of four papillae, separated from each other by an axial canal, which burst through the proper spore membrane, and finally project beyond the aperture of the exospore. By the absorp- tion of the central cell, its cavity becomes continuous with that of the vertical quadri- ' lateral canal above mentioned. 99. The embryo.—In consequence of the presumed entrance of theantherozoids into the cavity of the archegonium, the germ-cell en- larges, and is transformed by repeated division into an embryo, which is at first a somewhat meniscus-shaped body, formed of minute cel- lules. Soon after, a conical projection of its upper surface presents itself, which rapidly R 3