663 UTERUS — (Functions). during the existence of the menstrual pheno- mena, the blood was invariably found issuing from diseased surfaces situated upon or about the labia uteri, none escaping from the interior of the organ." * But in any case there is wanting a sufficient series of observations, taking cognisance of the exact duration and times of recurrence of such discharges, and comparing these with the normal periods and intervals of menstruation, to warrant an unhesitating belief in the occur- rence of a true catamenial flow as a possible phenomenon during gestation. Quantity. — The quantity of the menstrual fluid which escapes at each period has been so variously estimated at different times and by different observers, as to render it obvious that the calculations could not have pro- ceeded upon any common data. Thus Hip- pocrates, and afterwards Galen who quotes him, states the quantity as two Attic hemina, equal to about eighteen ounces. In recent times it has been estimated by Magendie at several pounds, and Haller gives the average amount as varying from six to twelve ounces. But all these estimates are too high. Dehaen, who employed an ingenious method of mea- surement, calculated that some women lost three, others five ounces, and very few half a pound ; but that it was exceedingly rare for a woman who had no malady to lose as much as ten ounces.f Probably the only proceed- ing by which any definite result can be ob- tained, is that of observing the rate of escape of the discharge from the uterine orifice. According to the observations of Mr. White- head, this is generally so slow that no more than from ten to twelve grains could be pro- cured during the time that the patient was able to endure the irksomencss of the pro- ceeding. From these, and similar observations of my own, as well as from other estimates, I conclude that two to three ounces is probably the full extent of the natural flow, and that a discharge amounting to six or more ounces in the aggregate will generally produce for the time sensible effects upon the constitution, such as general pallor, and some feebleness of the muscular system. Nature of the catamenial discharge. — There is no foundation for the belief once so preva- lent, and even partially still retained, that the menstrual fluid contains materials of a noxious or poisonous nature, nor yet that it serves as a vehicle for the depuration of the blood of the female. The occasional fcetid odour of the discharge, and sometimes also of the breath of women during menstruation, arises from the decomposition of the fluid, as it slowly collects in the vagina, and doubtless also from its partial resorption into the system, producing in such cases a heavy or foetid odour of the breath, the cause of which was pointed out more than two centuries ago by De Graaf.t The menstrual fluid has always, even in health, a peculiar and somewhat heavy odour which * Whitehead, loc. cit. p. 24. t Brierre de Boismont, op. cit. p. 68. X De Mul. Organ. Lug. Bat. 1672, p. 134. is as characteristic of it, as is the gravis odor puerperii of the lochial and other discharges in childbed.* But these circumstances afford no evidence that the excretion is, when first formed, necessarily unhealthy. The menstrual fluid, when first formed, ap- pears to consist almost entirely of pure blood ; but, in its course through the vagina, it re- ceives in addition the secretions of that canal, whereby both its physical condition and chemical constitution are materially altered. Hence the differences of opinion which have so long prevailed regarding the real nature of this fluid, and the extent to which it differs from pure blood. These differences have been maintained chiefly by the well-known fact that menstrual blood seldom coagulates, and also by the difficulty of discovering fibrine in it. But a solution of this difficulty is found in the fact that the mucus of the vagina has always an acid reaction, and that in this acid the fibrine of the blood is so readily dissolved, that not only is its coagulation prevented, but chemical analysis fails usually to reproduce more than a trace of it. The menstrual fluid, therefore, as escaping from the vaginal orifice, and that collected from the os uteri, are essentially two different products, and this distinction should be ob- served in all examinations having reference to its chemical or physical composition. But it would be perhaps arbitrary to designate either of these alone the menstrual fluid. Probably this term is most suitable to the first. Both the vagina and uterus are concerned in the production of this fluid in the form in which it is most familiarly known, and in this form it may first be examined, the pure and un- mixed product of the uterus being reserved for subsequent consideration. Composition of menstrual fluid according to 31. Denis. Water ----- 82-50 Fibrine ----- 0'05 Hematosine - - - 6-34 Mucus - * 4-53 Albumen - 4-83 Oxide of iron - 0 05 Osmazome and cruorine, of each - 0-ll Salts and fatty matter - 1-59 Microscopic examination. — The menstrual flux exhibits three periods or stages; viz. the periods of invasion, stasis, and decline. In the first the discharge is of a paler colour, and sometimes consists mainly or entirely of mucus — menstrua alba. But this stage is not always observed, the discharge often commencing at once of the deep red colour characteristic of the middle stage. This con- tinues during the greater part of the period, and is succeeded by the third stage or that of * Doubtless this led Pliny to draw up that dire catalogue of evils, in which he informs us, that the presence of a menstruating woman turns wine sour; causes trees to shed their fruit, parches up their young shoots, and makes them for ever barren ; dims the splendour of mirrors and the polish of ivory; turns the edge of sharpest iron; converts brass to rust; and is a cause of canine rabies.—C. Plinii, Nat. Hist, liber vii. § xiii. ed. Cuvier, 8vo. vol. i. Paris, 1827. "J u 4