68fi UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. me in a case which I witnessed of an aged verted during a convulsion. In this instance, woman whose uterus became completely in- the only apparent predisposing cause was the Fig. 470. Incomplete inversion of the uterus. (After J. G. Forbes.) The fundus is beginning to protrude through the os uteri, dragging after it the Fallopian tubes, which are drawn into the hollow formed by the inverted organ. dilatation of the uterine cavity by a tumour the size ot a flattened apricot, which was ex- pelled at the moment when the uterus came Fig. 471. Complete inversion of the uterus. (Diagram.) down completely inverted,—the violent ac- tion of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm probably here producing or aiding the ever- sion. After complete inversion, the uterus may remain incapable of replacement. Under these circumstances, the external surface of the protruding portion loses much of its original character of a mucous membrane, and be- comes covered by a thicker epithelial layer. It continues, however, more vascular than the surface of an ordinary procident uterus, and is especially liable to abrasion and ulceration, from the friction to which it is exposed. When this displacement occurs during men- strual life, and is permanent, the menstrual fluid may be observed at the periods exuding from the surface of the inverted organ. The internal relations of an inverted uterus depend upon the extent of the inversion. In extreme cases the interior of the tumour con- sists of a sac lined by the peritoneum, which originally formed the outer covering of the uterus. The centre indeed of the broad liga- ment may be said to be inverted so as to form a pouch in which are contained the Fallopian tubes and ovaries, and occasionally a portion of small intestine (fig. 471.). In minor degrees of inversion the uterus remains within the vagina, and the peritoneal pouch in its interior contains only the roots of the uterine appendages (Jig. 470.). Anomalies of Size. a. Atrophy.— Under this head maybe in- cluded those examples in which the uterus appears to have been originally well deve- loped, but has since suffered atrophy of its tissues. Such cases are to be distinguished on the one hand from the imperfectly deve- loped and prepubertal forms already described ; and on the other from examples of senile atrophy as it occurs in its ordinary course. Whenever atrophy attacks the uterus before the climacteric change the condition is to be deemed abnormal. Such a wasting may affect the entire uterus or some of its parts. In either case the tissues become pale, soft, and nearly bloodless. In atrophy of the uterine