HI PELVIS. direct distance from the centre of the cotyloid support {fig. 87. a' b', a' c').* This gives the anterior muscles of the thigh greater power in resisting the downward force of the trunk at the sacral extremity of the lever. But hy the addition of the iliac and sacral projections posteriorly, the cotylo-sacral arm is increased in length by 2h inches, as will be observed on reference to the figure (c', d'), a disposition which evidently increases the power of the glutei muscles in maintaining the habitual erect position, and resisting any tendency to fall forwards, by extending the femora on the pelvis. Again, if we follow the lateral curve of the sacrum at the brim of the pelvis, we shall find that it projects forward in the promontory of the sacrum, immediately under the point supporting the spine, so that its profile, taken with that of the ilium, as seen in the figure (e f), presents a curve with the concavity for- ward, in the manner of a C spring. It is worthy of remark, that, in the erect position, a plumb line, dropped opposite to the centres of the bodies of the axis and last lumbar ver- tebra, passes across the centre of the sacral promontory, and directly between the centres of the cotyloid cavities, as was proved by the experiments of Weber. Such a plumb line marks exactly the line of the transverse vertical plane of the spinal column before mentioned, which, when continued down- wards, passes through the sacral extremity of the pelvic lever, and also through the cotyloid fulcrum, dividing equally and vertically the heads of the thigh bones, and crossing the ischio-pubic rami about their suture (a a'). Thus, the oblique C-like curve of the cotylo- sacral arch, or posterior bent arm of the lever, meets this plane at its two extremities, di- recting its concavity towards it like the arc of a circle to. its chord ; and contributes, by its elastic reaction, to break the force of shocks operating through the spine and fe- mora. In deformed pelves, we generally find that the sinking of the sacrum, the crown of the pelvic arch, under the weight of the trunk, produces an increased curvature of the iliac bones forwards by the yielding of the C spring, and thus still further encroaches upon the dimensions of the pelvic brim. The above considerations will illustrate the fallacy of the deduction of Cruveilhier in re- spect to the statics of the pelvis. This cele- brated anatomist remarks, that " the arti- culation of the vertebral column with the pelvis is situated at the back part of that cavity, while the articulation of the femurs is anterior and lateral. The distance between them increases the space in which the centre of gravity can oscillate, without being carried so far forward as to pass beyond a perpen- dicular, from the cotyloid cavity to the base * The linec c', in the diagram passes through the centre of the sacro-iliac joint,—at which point, a line drawn from the cotyloid fulcrum of the bent level- falls perpendicularly upon the line of action of the weight, transmitted obliquely in the sacral axis, — and this consequently, the effective point of power of the bent arm/, e. of support at the feet" (p. 514. vol. i. Anat. Dcscrij).). Now these experiments of Weber prove that the centre of gravity is directly over the cotyloid support, and cannot oscil- late between these two articulations. The only oscillation of the line of gravity which can take place without falling is along the length of the basis of support — the feet. Soon after, in reference to the sitting po- sition, he says, " the tuberosities of the ischia being a little anterior to the cotyloid cavities, and near the front of the pelvis, the centre of gravity tends to pass behind the base of support; and the body easily falls backward in that position." Now, the tuberosities of the ischia, in the erect posture, are consider- ably behind the line of gravity, or transverse vertical plane, which crosses at or near the ischio-pubic ramal suture; and though, in the sitting posture, they are brought a little nearer the line of gravity, yet a much more satisfactory reason of the trunk more easily falling backwards than forwards, is because of the support of the hams in front, and the eleva- tion of the coccyx behind above the plane of support. Again, by the projection of the sacrum and tuberosities of the ilia behind the sacro-iliac joints, another lever, less powerful than the foregoing, is formed, having also the cotvlo- femoral supports for its fulcrum, and the spinal column for its weight, the anterior arm of this lever being the cotylo-sacral arch (fig. 87. a', c'), and the posterior, the over- hanging tuberosities of the ilia and projecting sacrum ( c', d'). Measuring from the centre of the sacro-iliac articulation, the anterior arm is lj inch in direct length, and the posterior about 2 inches and a half. The power in this lever resides in the power- ful muscles which pass from the sacral and iliac bones posterior to the sacro-iliac joint, to the osseous spinal projections and append- ages above—viz. the longissimus dorsi anil sacro-lumbalis, and its action is shown in the increase of the pelvic inclination on the change from the sitting to the standing position ; the principal movement taking place in thesacro- lumbar joint. It acts to the most advantage when the centre of gravity of the trunk, from which it is derived, is thrown in advance of the cotyloid fulcrum (a a'), so that the lever, though apparently one of the second order (i. e. in which r and w are on the same side of the fulcrum), is in reality one of the first order, {in which the fulcrum may be between them, and supports both the power, p, and the weight, w. Hence, in the drooping of the trunk forwards in old age, the action of these muscles contributes, to produce the in- creased obliquity of the pelvic lever in the manner before described. This may be made more evident by inspection of the diagram (fg. 86. b), which is taken from a small brass model made to illustrate this point. It will be seen that the pressure on the cotyloid fulcrum, f, could not be w—p, as in the second order of levers, but must necessarily be vv + p, and therefore in the first order of levers, p, in this case, may be represented