[113] OVUM. * Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool., vol. i. p. 190 lower half of the loculus is occupied by the deve- Fig. 79*. Development of the ova of Lepidopterous Insects. {From Hermann Meyer.) b. A small portion of the upper part of the ova- rian tube from the larva of Saturnia Carpini. The entire lines mark the basement membrane of the tube; externally elongated epithelial cells are placed on it; internally a number of larger and smaller free nuclei are imbedded in an albuminous fluid. a. A similar portion of the ovarian tube from Bombyx Mori more developed. The external epi- thelial cells are visible now only as elongated nuclei; a part of the internal cells now form a lining to the wall of the tube, while others of a larger size, which have become complete cells, towards the centre, form the primitive ova; of these last only a few undergo farther development. c. One of the loculi or chambers of the oviduct of Hyponomeuta variabilis. The wall of the tube with its external epithelial nuclei as before, enclos- ing now the entire loculus and the small portions of the adjacent ones represented in the figure. The Snpp. loped hemispherical ovum in which the several parts, viz. germinal vesicle with macula, yolk and vitelline membrane, are seen. The lining cells of the oviduct are seen to be elongated and modified in structure preparatory to their forming along with the albumen one of the external coverings of the ovum (chorion). In the middle of the upper half of the loculus there are the remains of five aborted primitive ova. d. Section of the coverings of the ovum of Har- pyia vinula, which may be taken as an example of the hemispherical ovum of Lepidopterous insects. of the oviduct, there are to be seen in the in- tervals between the ova numbers of large clear globules or cells, which have been supposed to furnish the materials for the growth of the ovum ; but it appears more probable that these are merely abortive ova or germinal vesicles, which, though at first similar in size and structure to those which have been farther developed, have undergone a retrograde pro- cess, and are ultimately removed by absorp- tion. The production of the chorion or shell membrane does not take place till the ovum has attained nearly its full size. It appears to proceed in part from the consolidation, over the whole surface, of one or more layers of albuminous fluid secreted from the wall of the oviduct. But the observations of Hermann Meyer* have shown, in an in- teresting manner, that a part of the outer membrane is also derived from a conversion into it of the inner cellular or epithelial lining of the oviduct, at the place where it is in closest contact with the surface of the ovum. Many of the varieties in the appearance and structure of the external covering may pro- bably depend on the different modes of deve- lopment of these cells. As to the origin of the micropyle, it does not appear to proceed, as has been supposed by Meissner, from the mere deficiency of these cells in a certain space; and it is not dependent, either, on its pre-ex- istence in the vitelline membrane. On the contrary, according to Leuckart, it is formed in the chorion before it appears in the vitel- line membrane ; and it is not in any way con- nected with an early pediculated condition of the ovum, which, as is well known, never at any time exists in insects. Before leaving the history of the ovum in this class, it may be proper to make the fol- lowing addition to what was stated in an earlier part of the article in reference to the remarkable modification of the reproductive process, by which, in the Aphides and several other insects, many individuals are produced without the formation of true ova. or the con- currence of the two different sexual products. The learned editor of the American transla- tion of Von Siebold's " Comparative Anatomy of the Invertebrate Animals," Dr. Waldo Burnett, has given, at p. 46i. of that work, a short statement of his own observations on the origin and mode of formation of the re- peated broods or colonies of Aphides, made on a large species of that insect, viz., A.