THE PAROVARIUM—(Normal Anatomy). 593 bedded in the jelly-like substance may be found opaque white masses resembling blanc- mange or thick cream. Intermixed with these contents, in varying proportions, are found nucleated epithelial cells, oval corpus- cles, oil granules and molecules, and delicate filaments. Besides these contents of the alveoli, there may be often observed hanging into their in- terior, and sprouting from their walls, clusters of leaf-like clavate or villous processes, such as are observed in that variety which has more particularly received the name of villous cancer. But it frequently happens that the alveolar type of structure is not generally diffused through the mass. This may form only a small portion of the diseased ovary, whilst the greater part is composed of one or more large cysts, with contents similar to those just described. Within such cysts, or growing from the walls of those which present no other t ype of malignant structure, may be observed round or oval bosses, bearing no inapt resemblance to the uterine cotyledons of the cow, and ex- hibiting in section the compact areolar tex- ture characteristic of the closer forms of alveolar cancer. Colloid or alveolar cancer is occasionally found associated with medullary disease in the same ovary, whilst its presence there may be accompanied by other varieties of carci- noma in other organs, and attended by a well- marked constitutional cachexia. Medullary Cancer of the ovary is of less frequent occurrence than the preceding variety, but like it is also occasionally associated with the formation of cysts. Medullary cancer may occur either in the form of a general infiltration of the entire ovary with encephaloid matter, or in that of distinct tumours, bounded by a fibrous enve- lope, and having the carcinomatous matter distributed through an interior cellular sub- stance, or confined there by cellular septa. These tumours may attain the size of an orange or more. Their growth appears to be in the first instance repressed by their fibrous sheaths, but these occasionally burst and allow of the diffusion of their contents. This form of can- cer often affects both ovaries together, and is found associated with cancer in other and especially adjacent parts. Notwithstanding the number and variety of the contiguous structures which may be thus involved, the ovary may sometimes be traced as the centre or focus from which the cancerous deposit has spread. This was remarkably the case in an example of medullary cancer, which was for some months under my notice, where the disease commenced apparently in the left ovary, and was found to have spread from this point upwards along the chain of ab- sorbent glands on the corresponding side, as far as the pancreas, and outwardly through the ischiatic notch to the glutasi, and all the ad- jacent muscles, including in its destructive march the os innominatum, which could be Supp. cut with a knife like cartilage. A medullary tumour the size of a walnut was found in the fundus of the uterus, but the rest of that organ, as well as the opposite ovary, had es- caped the general destruction. The melanoid variety of medullary cancer is occasionally observed in the ovary. (Roy. Coll. of Surg., No. 2642. and A.) "it differs only from the foregoing in having pigment cells, of a black or brown colour, scattered through the carcinomatous matter. Scirrhous or Hard Cancer and Cancroid are by no means so common as the two former varieties. Yet it is not rarely that one meets with the ovary, of one or both sides, in a hard white nodulated condition, resembling some- what the human kidney, both in size and shape, and having its entire tissue converted into a form of cancroid, characterised by the de- velopment of a peculiar kind of stiff close-set fibres, containing between their meshes nu- merous nuclei (Fibro-nucleated cancroid). Such a condition of the ovary is sometimes found associated with hard cancer in other parts of the body.* Of Scrofulous Tubercle in the ovary I can give no account. Most authors who refer to the subject mention it as rare, but give no decisive instances. Boivin and Duges, how- ever, have figured an example (fig. 16. Atlas) occurring in a girl of 16, associated with tuberculous disease of the mucous membrane of the uterus. In cases of my own, which I had regarded as examples of scrofulous ovary, until submitted to the microscope, I could find no trace of tuberculous matter. By Rokitansky the existence of tubercle in the ovary is altogether denied. THE PAROVARIUM. Syn. Corpus Conicum. Neben-Eierstock. Organ of Rosennuiller. These names have been applied at various times to an organ which has hitherto received little attention, but which is nevertheless in- variably present in close proximity to the ovary. The first discovery of this body is due to Rosenmiiller-f-, who termed it the corpus conicum. It has since come under the notice of many observers, and particularly of J. Miiller. And it has recently been re- examined, and very accurately described by Kobelt X, in an essay devoted to this subject, in which the author expresses his surprise that a structure so easily distinguished both by sight and touch, should have attracted comparatively so little attention up to the pre- sent time. The Parovarium is most readily found by holding up the broad ligament between the observer and the light. Within the folds of this membrane, at the part where the layer * For an example see R03'. Coll. of Surg. prep. 2G36. f Quaedam de Ovariis Embryonum et Foetuum humanorum. Leipsiae, 1802. X Der Neben-Eierstoek des VVeibes. Heidel- berg. 1847. Q Q