SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 462 stoppage of the heart's action when the cere- bellum, or corpora quadrigemina were the parts to which the stimulus was applied: when applied to the medulla oblongata, on the other hand, this effect was invariably pro- duced. The cervical part of the spinal cord, when stimulated, gave different results. In a mouse, which had been under the influence of the narcotic for 2\ minutes, the heart was repeatedly made to cease pulsating when the wires were applied upon either side of the spinal cord in the region of the third to the fourth cervical vertebra, and also when ap- plied to the part between the first and second cervical vertebras. After repeating this ex- periment several times, and with the same result, he cut the spinal cord across in the region of the second to the third vertebra; when the stimulus was now applied to the lower cut extremity of the cord the heart's action was accelerated. The cessation produced by application of the stimulus to this part of the spinal cord in the former experiment was, therefore, according to Valentin, probably due to its being transferred along the spinal cord to the medulla oblongata. In two other animals it was found that the two lower thirds of the cervical portion of the cord in like manner gave rise to no cessation in the heart's action, but rather, after the first few seconds, caused it to be accelerated. A young rabbit was strangled, the head se- parated from the body -at the articulation between the occipital and first cervical ver- tebra, and artificial respiration kept up. When the wires of the battery, moderately loaded, were now applied to the upper part of the spinal cord, in the region of the first cervical vertebra, the heart, which was before at rest, commenced pulsating. The spinai cord was laid bare from the first cervical to the eighth thoracic vertebra. When the wires were inserted in the region of the fifth cer- vical to the second thoracic vertebra, the heart's action was distinctly accelerated. When the spinal cord was removed, the same result still followed upon application of the wires, because the roots of the nerves were stimulated. When the heart was cut out of the body, and again placed in situ, the above experiment was repeated without effect. Just as stimulus of the sympathetic branches in the mammalia is followed by acceleration of the heart's action, while stimulus of the pneumogastric causes it to cease pulsating, so also Valentin concludes, from the above ex- periments, that stimulus applied to the spinal cord gives rise to the former result, while from stimulus applied to the medulla oblongata the latter result ensues. In the frog, accord- ing to Valentin, the spinal cord has no in- fluence over the movements of the heart. He also holds, as already stated, that in this animal, the sympathetic, in like manner, exer- cises no influence in this respect. In a pigeon, he found that when the wires of the magneto-electric apparatus were inserted into the cerebellum, the heart's action became more or less laborious : when applied to the spinal cord, in the region of the first cervical vertebra, forwards, towards the medulla ob- longata, the heart's action was repeatedly brought to a stand. The cessation in the heart's action by appli- cation of the galvanic stimulus to the medulla oblongata most readily ensues, according to Valentin, when the wires are applied to its sides, or to the under surface in the vicinity of the roots of the eighth pair, and in no in- stance does it ensue when the wires are ap- plied to any part of the central nervous masses after removal of the medulla oblongata. The influence exercised upon the heart's action by the central nervous masses is also shown by the diminution in the number as well as in the strength of its pulsations, which ensues when these are removed, especially on removal of the medulla oblongata. That the diminution in question does not depend en- tirely upon the stoppage of the respiratory process consequent on the destruction of the medulla oblongata, has been shown by Budge. When, in the frog, the anterior portion of the medulla is left, the lungs continue to act; and yet, according to him, the pulsations of the heart diminish very rapidly both in strength and in frequency. He finds that, although removal of the other parts of the central ner- vous masses produces little immediate effect on the heart's action, it seldom continues for any length of time after the removal of the medulla oblongata. The effects which follow disease of these parts in like manner illustrate the in- fluence which they exercise over the move- ments of the heart. In compression of the brain, as well as from lesion of the upper part of the spinal cord, the pulsations are frequently diminished : the effects of shock in altogether stopping its action also illustrate the same thing. From the experiments above mentioned, Valentin and others hold that the nervous centre upon which the heart's action depends is the medulla oblongata. The particular rhythmical order in which its different parts contract is due, according to some, to pecu- liarities in the manner in which they are acted upon by the blood, the contact of arterial with the lining membrane of the left cavities of the organ, that of venous blood with the lining membrane of those of the opposite side, fur- nishing the proper stimuli, in obedience to which these parts contract. The successive contraction of auricles and ventricles is in like manner explained by the blood first entering the former, and causing them to contract. By their contraction it is propelled into the ven- tricles, and stimulates these to contraction also, while the contraction of the ventricles causes the auricles to become again filled with blood from the veins, and so on indefinitely. This rhythmical order in the movements of the organ has also been attributed to pecu- liarities in the mode of arrangement of its muscular fibres. The muscular fibres of which it is composed, as may be seen on examin- ing with the microscope the auricles in the heart of the frog or other small animal, do not