STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 408 of the stomach, long known to occur in ill- nourished infants, or in cases of hydrocephalus or brain disease, — point just as decidedly to the influence of an abnormal state of nutri- tion in favouring this state. Lastly, there are many cases of acute dis- ease, in which the softened stomach is more or less coloured by blood that has stagnated in its walls, where we have the additional dif- ficulty of determining whether this congested condition preceded or followed death. Hyperemia.—The hyperaemia of the diges- tive canal constitutes an abnormal state, the correct appreciation of which is of great pa- thological importance. Of course, even the loosest interpretation of the term would limit it to an increase in the quantity of blood pre- sent in the vessels of the alimentary tube ; and would thus exclude a condition which is ca- pable of being confounded with it : namely, a transudation of the mere colouring matter of the blood from neighbouring parts. But there are many circumstances which render it very difficult exactly to determine the amount of true hyperaemia present in any segment of the digestive canal after death. Thus, while there is little doubt that hyper- aemia is a stage of almost all the processes ordinarily regarded as inflammatory, as well as of those which result in the deposit of adventitious growths, the examination of the digestive canal after death shows that this condition by no means accurately coincides with these processes. On the contrary, it is often absent in the very cases in which the symptoms during life might best entitle us to expect it. And conversely, it is often present where death has been the result of accident, or of disease no way referable to the organ which is the seat of the congestion. We are therefore bound to conclude: (l.)that the presence of hyperaemia in any part of the di- gestive canal does not necessarily prove this part to have been the seat of disease during life ; and, (2.) that the absence of hyperaemia in the dead structure does not disprove its previous presence in the living organ. And we have therefore to inquire: — (1.) What causes can produce it in the healthy tube? (2.) What circumstances can efface it from the diseased tube ? And (3.), what are the marks by which we may recognize hyperaemia in the corpse, as a true and characteristic relic of diseased action during life ? It is to the phenomena of death, as this process usually affects the organs of circu- lation, that we must first look for an answer to the above questions. A very cursory allusion to these phenomena may suffice to indicate, in what manner they can by turns imitate, modify, or efface the state of true hyperaemia occurring during life. The rigor mortis of the dying arteries flushes and dis- tends the capillaries beyond them with an ab- normal quantity of blood. The degree, date dicate that although it is probably preceded and assisted by an unhealthy state of the tissues of the stomach, the gastric juice is at least the chief im- mediate agent of the change. and extent of this arterial contraction in dif- ferent vessels, will obviously be capable of imparting almost any moderate amount of distention or congestion to the terminal net- works they respectively supply. And at a later period after death, the gravitation of the now stagnant blood may distend the vessels of any dependent part of the body. But the congestion of one part implies—other things being equal—the drain of some others which are immediately contiguous to it. And hence the very occurrences which can cause mode- rate hyperaemia in a healthy segment of in- testine, may at the same time produce a cer- tain amount of anaemia in another ; and may therefore diminish — and, when moderate, re- move— a state of simple congestion due to disease. It would be easy to accumulate instances of the fact last alluded to. The state of really intense, though healthy, hyperasmia, which is present during the periodic activity of the stomach or other parts of the canal, rarely leaves any traces after death, unless in animals who are examined very speedily after this event, and before these new adjustments of its circulating fluids have had time to take place. In like manner, the increased vascu- larity of the intestines which accompanies cholera or diarrhoea is often just as com- pletely effaced after death: — disappears, in short, in the same manner in which the red- ness of erysipelas and various other cutaneous disorders rapidly fades away in the first few moments that immediately follow the last breath. But, even with all allowances for such sources of error, the condition of hyperaemia is one of the highest significance in the patho- logy of the digestive canal. It is, generally, an important sign of disease. And, with proper attention to its collateral circumstances, its import need rarely be misinterpreted. Thus, as regards the extent of the process, an intense and minute congestion is almost always morbid ; and is obviously much less likely to be removed by the phenomena of death, than one of more moderate hyperaemia. Again, a long duration of the abnormal vascu- larity, as in the hyperaemia of chronic disease, generally brings about such a definite and per- manent enlargement of the vessels concerned, as evidently tends to enable them better to resist the action of these cadaveric changes. In other instances, a similar result appears to be produced by a process of exsudation around the vessels; and by changes in the structure of these tubes themselves. It must, however, be confessed, that we do sometimes meet with specimens of tolerably intense con- gestion of a part of the alimentary canal, where it is only from the presence or absence of corresponding symptoms during life, that we can conjecture whether the state of hyper- aemia has preceded or followed death. Of course, the mere hyperaemia of any net- work of capillaries may be determined in two ways : — either by an increased afflux, or by a diminished reflux, of the blood. But the