UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 652 or conductor of nerve force, the former pro- perty belonging exclusively to tiie nerve centres, and the latter to the nerve tubes or nerve fibres. It is therefore necessary to as- certain if either nerve centres or nerve fibres become in any way multiplied or enlarged during the process of utei o-gestation. Regarding a new formation of nerve centres, there is at present no anatomical proof that any fresh ganglionic corpuscles are formed during pregnancy within the ganglia or plexuses from which nerves proceed to the uterine tissues. Regarding the changes which take place in the nerve tubes or fibres during gestation, much interesting information is obtained from the researches of the late Dr. Franz M. Kilian, who devoted a considerable time to the in- vestigation of this point. Dr. Kilian dis- covered, that in the unimpregnated uterus a successive diminution of the nerve fibre, whether in bundles or isolated, takes place as it approaches the point of distribution. If broad, the fibre, after a certain portion of its course, begins to lose its greater breadth, dis- tinct double contour, and strongly marked granular contents, and then continuing as a pale fibre of intermediate size until it ap- proaches nearer to the uterus, it ultimately assumes an embryonic character ; that is, the extremely attenuated pale-margined fibre which traverses the tissues as a slender trans- parent band, has ceased to form a cylinder filled with nerve granules, and constitutes now only a pale slender stripe, or empty non- medullated sheath. Within this empty sheath there still occur, at distant intervals, little collections of granular fatty contents. Now, in the early periods of pregnancy these embryonal forms are observed to be- come gradually more distinct between the muscular fibres, and at a later period many of the fine tubes become filled with medulla, which was wanting in the unimpregnated con- dition ; the little collections of granular fatty contents just mentioned constituting the commencement of the nerve cylinders. For it is by the confluence of these isolated drops within the sheath that the medulla ted cylinder is formed, so that medullated fibres not only proceed as far as the uterus, but also become developed with continually increasing dis- tinctness during pregnancy between the mus- cular fibres. These observations correspond exactly with changes which Kilian observed to take place also in young animals, when the nerve fibres in the neighbourhood of the uterus are all in the embryonic condition, but become gradually medullated up to a certain point, in propor- tion as the development of the animal pro- ceeds, so that the nerves may be said to grow forward in the direction of the uterus. It should be understood, however, that in all these cases, the dimension of the nerve fibre never exceeds that of the branch whence it is derived, but that, on the contrary, a law of gradual diminution of the nerve is found to obtain in all cases, although the changes now described cause the rate of this to be different in the unimpregnated and gravid uterus respectively. Kilian had no opportunity of examining the condition of the nerves in the human uterus at different periods of pregnancy,but he doubts not that the alterations are analogous to those which he found in animals. The lining membrane of the uterus. Develop- ment of the deeidua.— The last, and at the same time the most interesting, transforma- tion of the uterine tissues remains to be de- scribed. It is that which takes place in the lining membrane, and which has for its object the formation of an immediate covering and protection to the ovum. By the aid of this membrane, the fertilised ovum, on arriving loose in the uterine cavity, is re-attached to the parent body, and is enabled to receive from it the supplies necessary for nutrition and growth. But before the ovum enters the cavity of the uterus, the lining membrane of the latter swells and becomes softer and at the same time more vascular.* This augmentation in bulk of the uterine inner coat takes place in almost all cases when an ovum has been fer- tilised. That it docs not depend upon the presence of the ovum in the uterus, is proved by the fact, that in cases of extra-uterine ges- tation, with rare exceptions, a development of deeidua occurs within the uterus, forming there, in some cases, a more profuse growth even, relatively to the size of the uterus, than takes place in ordinary gestation. The phenomena which ensue immediately * In a paper on the Structure of the Placenta, by John Hunter, published in 1786 (Animal Eco- nomy), the deeidua is described as composed of coagulable lymph. In another paper, 1794, on " the case of a young woman who poisoned herself in the first month of pregnancy," the pulpy substance lining the uterus, into which the blood-vessels of the uterus passed, and upon which they ramified, is stated to have consisted evidently of blood coayu- lated. The statements and descriptions in these two papers constitute the basis of the Hunterian hypo- thesis regarding the source of the deeidua. But Dr. William Hunter had, even at that early period, a clearer perception of what the deeidua really was, for in his posthumous work entitled "An Anato- mical Description of the Human Gravid Uterus," edited by Dr. M. Baillie in 1794, the deeidua is de- scribed in the following phrases: — "This mem- brane is an efflorescence of the internal coat of the uterus itself." ..." It may be said to be the internal membrane of the uterus."..." It is really the inter- nal lamella of the uterus." That the deeidua con- stitutes simply a higher stage of development of the lining membrane of the unimpregnated uterus, in the same way that the muscular coat of.the gra- vid organ is only a more advanced condition of the same coat before impregnation, is now proved be- yond question. Upon this subject consult, in addi- tion to the works quoted at p. G36., Sharpey, in " Midler's Physiology, by Baly," 1837, p. 1574. ; Eschricht, " De OrgaViis qua; Respirationi et Nutri- tioni Foetus Mammalium inserviunt," 1837; P.M. Kilian, "Die Structur des Uterus bei Thieren," in Henle and Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, bd. ix.; Schroeder van der Kolk, " Waarnemingen over Het Maaksel van de Menschelijke Placenta;" and Coste, " His- toire Ge'ne'rale et Paiticuliere du De'veloppement des Corps Organises."