40 OVUM. Additional Remarks.—Since the foregoing observations on alternate generation were printed in* August, 1852, the knowledge of these peculiar phenomena and of the whole forms of reproduction in various classes of animals has been considerably augmented by several important contributions. A short reference to some of these researches seems necessary in this place, in order to complete our notice of the phenomena referred to. The statements of Stein, referred to at p. 7 of this article, as to the encysted condi- tion of the Vorticellae previous to their under- going multiplication, having been called in question by Ehrenberg*, the subject has been farther investigated by F. Cohn, with the re- sult both of a full confirmation of Stein's state- ments, and of its being ascertained that a considerable number of other infusoria are subject to a similar change ; among which he mentions species belonging to the genera Euglena, Prorodon, Chilodon, Notophyra, Trachelitis, Trachelocera, and Stentor.-f Stein holds it to be fully established that the nucleus of the Vorticella is its true reproductive or- gan. From this nucleus a progeny is formed in two modes, in both of which the parent animal becomes encysted. In one mode the encysted Vorticella is converted into an Aci- neta-form by the prolongation of narrow con- tractile processes of its substance from the external surface, and from the nucleus of this Acineta-like animal successive single ones are produced by gemmation. In the other form, the nucleus of the encysted Vorticella undergoing subdivision, becomes converted into the germs or spores of numerous new Vorticellae. This process is probably in these Protozoa the equivalent of a sexual production of ova; and appears to correspond nearly with that which takes place in the production of the Navicella-like progeny from Gregarinae, with this difference, that in the latter case two Gregarinae are united or fused together into a sphere previous to the production of the new progeny or spores. The view of Leydig, therefore :f, that the parasitic infusoria named Gregarinae are only an imperfect or metamorphosed condition of a Filaria, does not appear to be confirmed. In reference to the Entozoa, recent experi- ments have'furnished ample confirmation of the views now adopted by almost all physiolo- gists, that these animals are the product of a true sexual generation, and that their ova, or embryoes, or larvae, are introduced from with- out into the bodies of those animals which they parasitically inhabit; while at the same time the knowledge of their migrations and remarkable transformations becomes more and more precise from additional and renewed investigation of their different forms. Herbst, who had previously failed in some experiments to cause the transmission of the * Bericlit of Berlin Acad, for 1851. f Zeitsch. flir Wissen. Zool., vol. iv. p. 253. % On Psorospermia and Gregarina?, in Mailer's Arehiv. for 1851, translated in Quart. Journ. of Micro. Science. Trichinae of the muscles by implantation in wounds of animals, at last succeeded in 1850-51 in causing the muscles of several young dogs to be infected with these parasites by giving them to eat the flesh of a badger which had lived with him for some time in confine- ment, and in which the Trichinae existed in great quantity.* About the same time Kuchen- meister found that by causing young dogs to swallow along with their food a quantity of the Cysticercus pisiformis (of the hare and rabbit), the intestines of these animals were in a few weeks invariably occupied by a Taenia (T. ser- rata). Von Siebold, who, as has before been remarked, was the first to advance the opinion (in 1844), that the Cysticercus fasciolaris in- habiting the liver of the rat and mouse is only the early condition of the Taenia crassi- colis of the intestine of the cat, has with the assistance of Lewald performed a series of experiments of a nature similar to those of Kuchenmeister, which have established be- yond doubt that various, kinds of Cysticerci, and also the Caenurus of the sheep's brain, and the Echinococcus veterinorum, are always converted into Taeniae or Cestoid Worms within a short time after they have been transferred, as by feeding, into the alimentary canal of suitable animals. These experiments have also afforded to V. Siebold the means of ob- serving in a most interesting manner the pro- cess of development and gradual conversion of the cystic into the cestoid entozoon.-j- Since the publication of V. Siebold's ex- periments, farther researches on the same subject have been laid before the Academy of Sciences of Paris by Van Beneden and by Kuchenmeister, in Memoirs presented by them in competition for the grand prize of- fered by the Academy in 1853 for the scien- tific investigation of the Development and Transmission of Intestinal Worms.J The observations and experiments com- municated by Van Beneden in this prize essay, and those contained in his highly interesting Memoir on the Cestoid Entozoa, published in the Memoires de l'Academie Royale de Belgique for 1850, have also established in the most satisfactory manner the relation be- tween the encysted or scolex condition and the cestoid form of the Tetrarhynchi; facts which have also been in part confirmed by R. Wagner.§ Van Beneden has observed the first development of the ova of the Taenia dispar of the Rana temporaria || into the small embryo provided with its three pairs of boring hooklets, and has watched with care the ac- tive motions of these instruments, by which * Ann. des Sc. Nat., 1852, torn. xvii. p. 63., and in Quart." Journ. of Micro. Science, No. 3. p. 209. t Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool., vol. iv. pp. 400. 409. See particularly Plate xvi. A. Also in Annal. des Sciences Nat., 1852, and L'Institut., No. 974. % See the Report of the Commissioners, by Qua- tref'ages, in Comptes Kendus for Jan. 30th, 1854. p. 16b. § See extract of a letter in Ann. des Sc. Nat. for 1853, vol. xix. p. 179. || Comptes Rendus, 1853, p. 788., and in Annals of Nat. Hist., vol. xiii. p. 157.