39G STOMACH AND INTESTINE. habitual ingestion in company with other articles of diet, and the manner in which they modify nutrition, forbid thein to be passed over unnoticed. Tea and Coffee.— Tea and coffee present a marked similarity, not only in their com- position, but also in that action on the ner- vous system which is their chief physio- logical effect on the organism. Both consist of an oil, with a certain quantity of tannin, united to an azotized vegetable alkaloid ; which is called thein, or caffein, respectively, but possesses the same composition in both (C46 H10 N4 04). As regards their effects on the system, both produce sleeplessness and cere- bral excitement. But coffee stimulates the circulation much more strongly, and in some persons excites diarrhoea. While tea is more apt to produce muscular tremors and irre- gular cardiac action ; and generally causes a constipation rather than a relaxation of the bowels. The dietetic use of the two is very similar. How far they promote digestion is doubtful. They seem, however, to lessen the drowsiness and cerebral inaction which often follow the ingestion of a large meal. Like alcohol, they probably* diminish the rate of waste of the tissues generally. Alcohol in all its various forms—whether of beer, wine, liqueur, or spirits — is equally un- deserving of the name of food. It is not a nutritious article of diet ; but rather a drug, which has a specific stimulating action on the nervous system. As regards its ultimate destiny in the organism, it seems certain that a part of it leaves the body, unchanged, in the exhalations of the skin and lungs. The fermented liquors enumerated above are generally taken with the food. And in many of them, the alcohol is associated with small quantities of sugar and other alimentary substances. Their several tastes and odours are due partly to these, partly to other admixtures : — such as the bitter of the hop in beer, cenanthic aether in wine, and the various products of distillation in ardent spirits. The per centage of alcohol in these different liquids may be estimated as being, on an average, 3 to 7 in beers; 7 to 20 in wines ; and 20 to 50 in spirits. Dietaries.— In ending this cursory view of the different alimentary substances, we may briefly inquire into the quantity and quality of the food which would be the result of their admixture with each other, in the proportions best suited to the maintenance of health. From what has already been stated, it is obvious that, in constructing such an ideal diet, or in estimating the proper daily ration which ought to form the food of any indivi- dual or class of persons, it should be our first care to ascertain the presence of all the ali- mentary principles in suitable proportions. * Since the above was written, the experiments of Boecker, Lehmann, and others, on which this statement may now be regarded as based, have been well discussed in an article in the Medico- Chirurgical Review for January, 1855. At first sight, it might seem easy to cal- culate an efficient scale of diet, from no other data but those which the above law affords us. With these data, it might even appear that such a knowledge of" arith- metic as is implied in knowing the rules of simple addition and subtraction would enable us to calculate an infinite number of dietaries. For, it would evidently be easy for us to take any forms of protein, hydrocarbon, or hy- drate of carbon, and compare the known per-centage of their elementary substances with the similar elements of the carbonic acid and urea which represent the most important products of the waste of the body. Adapting the quantities of the former to those of the latter, we might thus arrange thousands of for- mulae, in which food would always cover waste, and income exceed expenditure: — formulas which, provided the human organism were really made up of similar figures, would, no doubt, give us equally definite and satisfactory results when carried out into practice. A variety of circumstances, however, concur to invalidate such calculations, and reduce them to their true value: — viz. the results of a mere process of addition and subtraction, that only distort and obscure the facts on which they are founded. Such circumstances prove, that the end of these sums in simple arithmetic is no better than the beginning:— that they do but repeat, in a less specific, and therefore less truthful form, the various state- ments of the skilful chemist, on which they are all based ; and that, if carried any further, they can only mislead the physiologist. For instance, not all our existing know- ledge of the composition of most of* the sub- stances commonly used as food, would enable us to construct a diet which would be certain to contain an exact proportion of all the necessary salts. For, in the first place, we must recollect the probable importance of some which are only present in very small quantity ; as well as the value that similarly appears to attach to minnte proportions of certain organic acids, and their compounds with bases. In the next place, we must re- member that, both in animals and vegetables, these saline constituents seem liable to vary, in nature as well as amount, according to the peculiarities of the soil from which they are ultimately derived. It is not by any means easy to insure their presence. And a good scale of diet ought to provide against any danger of their deficiency, by adding so much of various fresh vegetables as would cover all possibilities of such an occurrence. Indeed, nothing short of such variety would make the saline quality of any food perfect. A similar argument will apply to the quan- tities of all the other ingredients. The mecha- nical state of the protein and hydrate of carbon will have at least as much influence in deter- mining their requisite amount as the quantity rendered necessary by the waste of the tissues. Hence, to this latter estimate we have always to add a large excess ; such as will be sufficient to cover the surplus protein which passes,—