PELVIS. prominence on the inner surface of the iliac backwards, and are curved also a little out- tuberosities, a, a', which project upwards and wards, the better to resist inward traction, Fi«. 89. Section of the pelvis and heads of the thigh bones, made in the direction of the cotylo-sacral arch, a little heloiO the pelvic brim ; showing the antero-posterior sacral wedge, the suspending office and oblique direction of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the wavy section of the joint, a, iliac tuberosities; b, c, antero-posterior sacral wedge; d, deep posterior sacro-iliac ligaments; c, interosseous ligaments; ft auricular groove; c, sacral joggle; g, c, cotylo- sacral rib. (Drawing made from a recent section.) following the lesser curve of the iliac crest. This thickened central portion of the tubero- sities is placed above the angle of the artic ular facet, in the line of direction of the cotylo- sacral arch produced upwards through it. In the accompanying figure, the section, made al- most in the plane of the pelvic brim, cuts di- rectly through it. Passing downwards and in- wards, the powerful fibres of these ligaments are attached to the upper external part of the posterior surface of the sacrum, bs and they suspend the sacrum between them some- what in the manner of a suspension bridge, of which the iliac tuberosities are the sus- pending buttresses. This arrangement evi- dently considerably adds to the yielding elas- ticity of the sacro-iliac joint, and does much to lessen the concussions passing through it. It is evident also that it is in these ligaments that the most powerful preven- tive to anterior and downward displacement of the sacrum resides; for this could not take place without absolute rupture of their numerous fibres, resisting, as they do, all motion of the sacrum, except, in the limited sweep of the radii they form, a motion which exactly coincides with the movement of the sa- crum proved by the experiment just mentioned. But these ligaments, from their oblique direction inwards, at the same tunc that they resist downward pressure, pull with a corresponding force the sacrum and the ilia more closely together, and render, by this constantly tightening and bracing process, all the before-mentioned provisions for resisting displacement more effective, and. hv a gradu- ally increasing resistance, overcome the impel- ling force. To illustrate this effect, it may be mentioned that the effect of placing too much weight on the crown of an artificial arch is to cause the line of pressure (c, a, c, fig. 90. a), which ought to pass through the centres of the " voussoirs" perpendicular to their joints, to rise above the " extrados" at the apex, a, and to be brought within the inner surface or " hill-ados'" of the arch, />, on each side; and this causes the voussoirs, a d, d c, to turn on each other at the edges nearest the line of pressure ; and in consequence the crown of the arch sinks and opens below, b,