331 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. residuum, or found in the distilment, of the gastric juice — they* brought forward the fact, that towards the close of the process of distillation, the fixed lactic acid was capable of displacing the volatile hydrochloric from the salts in which it had been formerly com- bined ; leaving lactates and lactic acid, in a thick acidulous residue of a syrupy consistence. They added, that this late appearance in dis- tillation (as shown by nitrate of silver and peroxide of manganese) proves the absence of the free acid ; as does also the precipitate effected in gastric juice by oxalic acid,—a precipitate which would not occur in water containing but g^th of hydrochloric acid. To this one might have answered, that such a displacement of hydrochloric acid could scarcely have occurred in any of these analyses, Dr. Prout examined in vain for organic acids. And just as he expressly af- firms, so others imply, their absence. While Dunglison f and Berzelius found that the re- siduum contained a large quantity of chlorides. And if it be difficult to suppose the chlorides of the gastric juice sufficient, both for a large distilment of acid, and a still larger residuum of salts, — it is even more difficult to imagine (with Lehmann J), that the chloride of cal- cium alone can yield the former, and yet also appear in the latter. The absence of the ordinary reactions of hydrochloric acid is, indeed, explained by a theory of Schmidt's, which will be noticed again hereafter, and according to which the acid is in some degree fixed and retained by its chemical combination with the organic prin- ciple of the gastric juice. He shows that, if a solution of nitrate of silver be added to this secretion, it throws down a precipitate, which consists of chloride and organic matters; while conversely, it leaves some silver in the clear supernatant fluid. But such a fact scarcely requires the aid of the above theory. The way in which the affinity of even small quantities of organic substances can disturb various chemical processes, offers a well- known analogy to this retarded precipitation. And without some such an action really ob- hydrochloric acid, as well free as combined. The third method would allow of the estimate of the free acid. And this, together, with the fixed hydro- chlorates of the first method, subtracted from the total of the second, would leave the quantity com- bined with the volatile alkali ammonia. He thus found, that rather more than half the chlorine present was combined with hydrogen, in the form of free hydrochloric acid, while, of the remainder, nearly half was united with ammonia, the rest with potassium and sodium. A fourth portion was exa- nined in vain for an organic acid. And other salts, inch as sulphates and phosphates, were only found in very small quantity. * Aided and confirmed by the observations of Blondlot (Loc. cit.), Huenefeld (Chemismus in der Thierischen Organization, Leipzig, 1840, p. 207. et seij.), and others. f With the "astonishing quantity "of chloride of silver obtained from the distilled liquid by Dun- glison, there ought to have been at least half as much lactic acid in the (apparently uninjured) re- siduum. X Compare Op. cit. vol. i. p. 98. and vol. ii. p. 43. tained, the non-precipitation of dissolved albu- men by gastric juice would (as Blondlot indeed assumes) disprove the presence of both lactic and hydrochloric acids in this fluid. The analysis of Enderlin, however, carried the investigation a step further, by distinctly asserting the presence of hydrochloric acid in the residuum of the distillation. * And Bid- der and Schmidt's recent experiments seem quite conclusive, both as to the presence of this, and the absence of lactic, acid.-j" These observers avoid distillation, and treat the fresh gastric juice, previously acidulated by nitric acid, with nitrate of silver; so that the pre- cipitate is free from all organic matters. To the supernatant liquid, they add hydrochloric acid, so as to remove all excess of silver ; and then determine its bases by evaporation and ignition. These they find insufficient to neu- tralize the chlorine of the precipitated chlo- ride. And on saturating a quantity of the same juice with potash, baryta, or lime, they find that the amount required for its neutrali- zation js exactly equivalent to the deficiency observed in the previous analysis. But this leaves us with two gastric acids, the hydrochloric and the lactic. Hence three questions suggest themselves. — (1.) Are they present together? (2.) Do they substi- tute or replace each other? Or (3.) is the lactic acid a mere secondary and accidental product ? Even since Bidder and Schmidt's analyses, Lehmann has again answered the first of these questions in the affirmative; having found both acids together in a quantity of gastric juice collected from 14 dogs. The second and third questions cannot at present be re- plied to. As regards the second, we have no valid proof that the species of the animals examined, their health, or even the nature of their food, ever effects any such quali- tative alteration in this secretion. In respect to the third, we may point out, that the vari- able (and often large) quantity of lactic]: acid is precisely what might be expected, supposing it to be a secondary production. And, according to Lehmann, the particular variety of lactic acid seen in the stomach is that produced by the fermentation of sugar, and not that obtained from the fluid of muscle. This fact has induced me to conjecture, that the lactic acid thus observed can scarcely be directly secreted from the blood. But it must remain for future experiments to decide, whether its absence in the later (and appa- rently exact) analyses of Bidder and Schmidt, was due to the exclusion of saliva, to the fresh state in which the gastric juice was examined, to its careful separation from all food and peptone, or, finally, to the avoidance of the process of distillation. Still, waiting * Lehmann (vol. i. p. 97.) urges against this ob- server, that, in a previous analysis, he had failed to find carbonate of soda in the ash of the blood : — an argument which seems somewhat invidious as well as inconclusive. f Lehmann, Op. cit. vol. iii. p. 331. X Compare Lehmann, vol. ii. p. 42.; vol. iii. p. 33.