638 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. small branches in their course. Having reached the surface of the mucous membrane they spread out into a meshwork of round oval and hexagonal spaces, in the centre of each of which may be usually observed the orifice of a uterine gland. This is most easily seen in the neighbourhood of the Fallopian tubes, where the capillary network and glandular orifices are usually arranged with greater regularity than in other portions of the uterine cavity. In many places, however, the small vessels furnishing the capillaries of the mucous mem- brane may be seen in injected preparations, lying close beneath the surface with which they run parallel, and if the veins have been filled, one or two principal ones may be no- ticed on each half of the median line, running in the longitudinal direction, and communica- ting by short branches with the capillaries just mentioned, from which the blood is thus conveyed away through the muscular walls to the larger veins. The network of capillaries thus formed lies very superficially with regard to the uterine surface. The layer of epithelium covering them, and the nuclear corpuscles and amor- phous tissue supporting them, appear to have so little cohesion, and to form so slight a pro- tection, that the vessels are often seen to be nearly bare, while in some instances the indi- vidual capillaries may be observed hanging out loose into the uterine cavity, and giving to its surface a villous appearance. This constitutes one of those conditions which have led many anatomists to assert, and more to deny, that the mucous membrane of the cavity of the uterus is furnished with true villi. Structure and arrangement of the tissues composing the cervix. — The cervix is com- posed of nearly the same elements as those which form the body of the uterus, but they are differently proportioned and arranged in the two organs. The cervix cannot be said to consist, like the body, of three coats. It receives a cover- ing of peritoneum only upon its posterior surface, while the anterior wall, as well as the lateral borders, remain uninvested. With the exception, therefore, of this partial cover- ing, the cervix consists of a muscular and a mucous coat only (Jig. 426—431.). Muscular coat of the cervix. — On account of the large admixture of fibrous tissue with the muscular element here existing, this might with almost as much propriety be called the fibrous coat of the cervix. The muscular element of the cervix consists of the same fusiform fibre-cells as in the body ; but the elementary corpuscles are here scan- tily seen. The fibrous element consists of long detached fibrils or of bundles of fibres of white fibrous tissue intermixed with much unformed material of the same kind, but stronger and tougher than that which unites the constituents of the muscular and mucous coats of the uterine body. These several tissues are arranged in a manner not materially different from the plan already described as observable in the body of the uterus. But the thin external strata which form the tegumental layers of the body are wanting in the cervix. There may, how- ever, be distinguished an outer and more vascular, and an inner and more dense series of lamina;. The laminae of the outer series are intermingled with numerous divisions of the cervical branches of the uterine vessels which traverse them obliquely in a direction from above downwards and from without in- wards. From the abundance of these vessels the external laminae present a more spongy appearance, and when the part has been in- jected a much deeper colour than the inner layers, which are paler, more dense and closely set, and exhibit at the same time fewer sections of vessels, and these only of the finer kind. The large amount of white fibrous tissue, and the density and compact- ness of the lamina; here formed around the cervical canal, give to clean sections of this part an appearance of circles concentrically arranged. But a low magnifying power is sufficient to resolve these into the lozenge- shaped spaces already described, consisting of bundles of contractile fibre cells bordered by fibrous tissue, and intermingled with bun- dles of the latter and blood-vessels of various sizes. Within these laminae and bundles the fibres take their course with as many varia- tions in direction and plan of arrangement as are noticeable in the muscular fibres of the rest of the uterus. (See Jig. 436.) The larger proportion of the fibrous ele- ment in the neck as compared with the body of the uterus, which the microscope serves to display, and which to a certain extent is ob- servable to the naked eye, may be more satis- factorily shown by the operation of dilute acetic acid ; this agent causing thin sections of the part rapidly to swell out and assume a gelatinous appearance. Mucous coat of the cervix. — This is com- posed of epithelium, basement membrane, and the usual fibrous and vascular tissues, together with certain papillae and follicles. It is of a more dense and uniform texture upon the outer or vaginal portion of the cervix than within the canal, where it is more delicate, but being here thrown into nume- rous folds and rugae, an appearance is given of greater thickness than the membrane really possesses. The average thickness of the mucous membrane upon the lips of the cervix is \— \"'\ that of the membrane with- in the cervical canal, regardless of the folds, is somewhat less. The general plan of ar- rangement, and some of the more prominent forms which this membrane assumes within the cervical canal having been already con- sidered, it only remains here to describe the minuter structures of which it consists. The epithelium of the outer or vaginal por- tion of the cervix is tessellated or squamous. It gives a smooth and even covering to the two lips of which this part of the cervix con- sists. Outwardly, this scaly epithelium is continuous with that of the vagina, but to- wards the os uteri it terminates at the margin