500 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. Simple ccecal glands are scattered over the whole surface of the body of the Procession Caterpillars, opening at the points of the hairs ; on the sides of the body in Myriapods, on the joints of the legs in Beetles and Bugs. In Mollusca a peculiar, probably glandular, canal exists in the foot of certain Lamelli- branchs, and glandular cceca have been ob- served in the lower surface of the foot in Paludina. A ciliated canal runs in the foot of Pulmonata, and receives glands on each side. The existence of cutaneous glands in the Cephalopods appears doubtful—at least, H. Miiller could only find them as shell glands in the expanded arms of Argonauta. Among the Vertebrata, Fishes, Ophidia, Chelonia and Birds, appear to possess no proper cutaneous glands * ; in Sauria they attain a very slight and local, but in Batrachia and Mammalia, an immense de- velopment. In the frog, the whole surface Fig. 318. The cutaneous glands of the Frog. A, section; b, superficial view. of the ecderon is beset with minute trifid apertures, so disposed between three epi- dermic cells, as to present a singular resem- blance to the stomata of plants {fig. 318. b). These lead directly into spherical sacs (fig. •318. a. d.), which are lined by a continuation of the cellular ecderon, and lie in the superficial * Dr. Clark, in his excellent account of the skin of the eel (Trans. Mic. Soc. 1849), describes cuta- neous glands in that animal. The so-called "glands" of the lateral line, however, have since been shown by Leydig to have a very different structure ; and I confess I have not been able to convince myself of the existence of the other glands described by Dr. Clark. I can find nothing like them, except the strong perpendicular semi-elastic bands, which tra- verse and unite the bundles of connective tissue in this as in other fishes. part of the enderon above its stratified layer (fig. 318. a. g.) (vide infra). Nerves (/) and vessels penetrate the latter to reach the superficial layer of the enderon, and ramify among these close-set glandular sacs. The sacs usually contain only a clear fluid * ; they are contractile, and may be made to expel their contents by irritation of the nerves dis- tributed to them.")" In Mammals, we meet with two kinds of cutaneous glands, sebaceous and sudoriparous. The former are almost invariably developed in connection with the hair sacs, consisting in fact of diverticula of the Malpighian layer of the cellular ecderon of the upper portion of these sacs, whence their position is always superficial. The innermost cells of the solid process become filled with fat — break down, and pour their contents into the hair sac itself, by whose aperture they make their exit. Sometimes, as in the hairs of the head in man and in the pig's bristles, the sebaceous glands are very small and simple, while in other lo- calities they throw out processes, and assume the appearance of complex racemose glands, disposed like rosettes around the hair-sac, from which they are developed. Sudoriparous glands. — These glands, like those just described, are, as Gurlt pointed out, simple, elongated processes of the deep layer of the ecderon, differing from the sebaceous glands chiefly in producing a clear fluid, instead of a fatty secretion. As Kolliker has shown, however, no line of demarcation is to be drawn on this ground, the secretion of the axillary sudoriparous glands in man being an essentially sebaceous substance. The sudoriparous glands are cylindrical ccecal tubes varying, in man, from tJo to sw °f an 'ncn m diameter, whose walls are either thick or thin. In the former case they consist of a simple ecderonic cellular coat, contained within a prolonged sheath, formed by the uppermost layer of the enderon, and, like it, composed of a homogeneous or indistinctly fibrillated periplast, with imbedded endoplasts. Outside this, or rather forming part of it, is a layer of longitudinally-disposed smooth mus- cles, and the whole is coated, like the deep sur- face of the rest of the enderon, by a more or less distinct layer of connective tissue. In the thin-coated glands the muscular layer is absent, but the cellular ecderonic coat is fre- quently so thick that they possess no cavity at all. The thick-walled glands are met with in man in the axilla, scrotum, anal region, &c.; while those of the rest of the body are al- most entirely of the thin-walled description. The glands terminate superiorly in undu- lating canals, which reach the surface of the enderon, and are continued to that of the ecderon by oblique channels excavated in its substance between its cells. Inferiorly, they form close coils, which lie in the subcutaneous * Stated by Bergmann and Leuckart to have an irritating property in Triton. f Ascherson : Haut-driisen d. Frosche, Miiller's Archiv, 1841. Czermak : Haut-nerven d. Frosche. Ibid. 1849.