352 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. free extremity of the villus:—to the contrac- tion of the muscular layer of which it would appear to be chiefly, though not wholly, clue. The veins (v v, fig. 260.) come off from this network by the gradual union of capillaries in the upper half of the villus, so as to form two or more venous trunks. These are usually about double the width of the corre- sponding arteries : they run at a distance from them ; and often lie rather nearer to the surface of the villus. Below, these trunks become confluent in the single vein of the process; which, passing vertically downwards, terminates by joining one of the numerous veins belonging to the venous plexus around the orifices of the intestinal tubes. And this latter network also joins that of the villus by such numerous communications, that the two might almost be regarded as merging into each other. The substance which forms the ground- work or basis of the villus resembles, to some extent, that of the gastric mucous membrane ; — the morphological consti- tuents of which we have already seen to be indistinct, except at the bottoms of the tubes. It rarely presents any definite struc- ture. Sometimes, however, it is faintly striated. And occasionally this appearance is so marked, as to approach a fibrous character. In this re- spect, it resembles the papillae of the skin and tongue ; — and, especially, those secondary projections which stud the fungiform papilla; of the latter organ, the basis of which contains no yellow elastic fibres, but is almost homo- geneous, and often indistinctly granular. Mixed with this indistinctly fibrous tissue are numerous delicate cvtoblasts or nuclei (b, figs. 259, 261, 262, 263.). The larger of these attain the size of coloured blood-cor- puscles ; while the small merge into granules by increasing minuteness. The exact, re- lation of these to the basis of the villus is un- known. Their general effect is to communicate to the whole villus a more or less mottled and granular aspect. This appearance (which we shall find is increased during the period of intestinal digestion) often obscures, not only the vague fibrillation just alluded to, but the whole of the structures which lie beneath the basement membrane. As regards the lactcals of the villi, few anatomical details have been more disputed than those which relate to the commence- ment of the chyliferous absorbents within the substance of these processes. The pro- gress of microscopical research has, how- ever, reduced the controversy within very narrow limits ; and promises at no distant date, to end it by a final decision. At pre- sent, almost all trustworthy observers agree in the statement, that each villus receives by its base a single (perhaps sometimes a double) branch of the lacteal system. It is only as to the further course of this vessel that opinions differ. Many affirm it to be continued up the villus as a single tube, which ends near its apex by a blind and often some- what dilated extremity. Some authorities modify this view for the broader villi, by stating the canal to be double—either as a single loop, or as a bifid and somewhat tor- tuous tube. While others find that the cen- tral and simple lacteal canal ends by branching into a network of more or less complex cha- racter, like that of the capillaries. The first of these statements will at any rate apply to many of the villi. Numerous observers have verified its accuracy for the human subject. And it is not difficult to obtain distinct evidence of its truth in some other Mammalia. Amongst these the sucking Rabbit and Calf are especially suitable for examination. If proper care be taken to examine the chyliferous villi of these ani- mals instantly after death, with the aid of suitable fluids, we may easily convince our- selves of the presence of a single large lac- teal tube, with distinct walls, like that repre- sented in the annexed figure (fig. 261.). Such Fig. 261. b d d b Two villi, denuded of epithelium, with the lacteal vessel in their interior. From the Calf. Magnified 350 diameters. (After Koelliker.) a, limitary membrane of the villus; b, matrix or basis of the saine; c, dilated blind extremity of the central lacteal; d, trunk of the same. single lacteals are generally very large, having a diameter which often amounts to about one- third or one-fourth that of the villus itself; and exhibit a dilated blind extremity, (c,fig. 261.) which nearly doubles their width. In man, according to Frerichs *, they are scarcely more than one-half or two-thirds of this size. But it remains to be considered whether this * Op. cit. p. 751.