STOMACH AND INTESTINE. E E 2 seem to be but little affected. Finally, in others — and especially in those cases inlwhich the copious exsuda.tion has subsequently con- tracted, so as to diminish the calibre of the tube,— the muscular fibres themselves seem to undergo a process of atrophy, which ends in their complete disappearance. (3.) The above remarks may serve to illus- trate a brief allusion to a third (and very fre- quent) variety of what is called hypertrophy of the digestive canal, in which it is still more dif- ficult to determine the exact change that has taken place. In these cases an albuminous plasma exsudes into the coats of the canal: either pretty equally throughout ; or with a more or less marked preference for the sub- mucous or subserous areolar tissue, and with marks of inflammation in the neighbouring mucous membrane or peritoneum respectively. When examined under the microscope, this albuminous plasma generally exhibits all the appearances which attend the abnormal de- velopment of fibrous tissue. But the fibres thus developed as the product of a diseased (and often an inflammatory) action, offer marked differences in their structure and ar- rangement from those of the normal areolar tissue among which they originate. While, as regards the changes undergone by the latter or healthier texture, it is often impossible to decide whether it has been augmented or hypertrophied ; or whether it has not rather experienced such an interference with its nu- trition, and such a loss of its substance, as amounts essentially to its atrophy. Polypi.—The tumours which have received the name of polypi agree in the common character of projecting into the cavity of the digestive canal, by means of a peduncle or stalk of variable length, that attaches them to its walls. Their size varies from that of a pea to a pigeon's or hen's egg. They are almost always covered by the mucous mem- brane : in the submucous areolar tissue beneath which they appear to be generally formed. It can scarcely be doubted that the shape of these polypi — like that of the papilliform tumours on the external integuments — is sometimes determined by a definite arrange- ment or development of the plasma out of which they are constructed. It is, perhaps, chiefly in this way that isolated malignant growths under the mucous membrane so fre- quently assume the pedunculated or polypoid form. But it seems certain that, in many instances, their form is partly the result of a mechanical traction, such as the muscular contractions of the alimentary canal itself might exercise on almost any small tumour projecting from its mucous surface. The pe- dicle* of the tumour is thus continually drawn out and lengthened. And the intus- * The movements of the intestines upon each other often seem to exert a similar mechanical in- fluence on tumours or deposits attached to their peritoneal surface. susception of that segment of intestine from which this pedicle arises, sometimes affords a remarkable testimony of the mechanical ac- tivity of the bowel. The interior of the non-malignant poly- piform tumours generally consists of a more or less completely developed fibrous tissue. In some cases, however, they contain a mass of adipose tissue, which causes them to re- semble appendices epiploicae. In very rare instances, their contents approach the amor- phous character, and friable consistence, of a tuberculous deposit. And finally, they some- times constitute true mucous polypi ; which are distinguished by their lobulated form, their great vascularity, and their erectile and dilatabie texture. The various small tumours which occa- sionally occupy the submucous tissue of the bowel scarcely require any separate descrip- tion. Cysts are comparatively rare in this situation. Fibrous, or fihro-cartilaginous masses are less infrequent. The latter rarely become the seat of a process of true ossi- fication. The inorganized earthy matters oftener found in their interior are formed, either by obsolete tubercle, or by the cretified contents of old abscesses, the pus of which has undergone a partial absorption. Tubercle. — The digestive canal is more frequently the seat of tuberculous deposit than any other organ of the body, the lungs only excepted. The pulmonary tubercle is, however, far more frequent than the intestinal. And the latter is not only generally preceded by the former ; but is rarely seen to any ex- tent, before the tuberculous matter deposited in the lungs has already reached the stage of softening and suppuration. The different segments of the canal are affected by it in the following order of fre- quency : the lower part of the ileum; the coecum; the large intestinegenerally; theuppcr part of the ileum ; the jejunum ; the duode- num ; and (very rarely) the stomach. Both forms of tubercle are met with in the intestinal canal. In a vast majority of in- stances, none but the crude, yellow, or caseous tubercle is detected. But in cases in which the disease has taken an unusually chronic course, the grey granulations are sometimes met with. The latter appear gradually to as- sume the caseous form ; the change beginning at their centre, and extending thence to their circumference. The deposit usually begins by engaging the agminate and solitary follicles of the lower third or half of the ileum ; filling and distend- ing their cavities with crude tubercle. A marked (and often intense) redness of this segment of the bowel usually accompanies the deposit; and remains, as a more or less distinct hyperemia, during the remaining stages of the process. The caseous tubercle contained in these follicles next undergoes the process of soften- ing. The summit of the sac bursts or ulcerates; and its contents escape into the cavity of