594 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. of peritoneum, after investing the Fallopian tube, passes off towards the ovary, to form the posterior duplicature which encloses the vessels proceeding to that organ, will be found a small plexus of white tortuous tubes, (Jig. 403. a,b,c) arranged somewhat in the form of a cone whose apex is directed towards the hilum of the ovary /, and its Ivise a c a to- wards the Fallopian tube h. The entire or- gan measures about one inch in breadth, and is composed of 12—20 tubules 0-lo—0-2///in diameter. The tubes which contain nothing but a clear fluid consist of fibrous membrane, lined by a single layer of pals, cylindrical, epithe- lial cells. These tubular canals are not known to have any direct communication with the ovary. That the parovarium is formed out of the Wolffian body does not now appear to admit of doubt. It has been usually considered that the Wolffian bodies are organs peculiar to foetal life, and that they afterwards entirely disappear in both sexes. Hence no special investigations have been undertaken with a view to ascertain their ultimate fate. Meckel indeed compared them to the epididymis. Rathke believed that they became epididymis in the male, and disappeared in the female ; while Rosenmiiiler, who discovered the paro- varium, compared this body to the epididy- mis. Some general conjectures also have pointed in thcmalesexto thevascu/a aberrantia of the epididymis, and in the female to the or- gan of Rosenmiiiler ami the ducts of Gartner, as the supposed remains of the Wolffian body. Nevertheless it is, according to Kobelt, an undoubted anatomical fact that each pretended ephemeral structure not only exists through the whole of life in both sexes, but that it absolutely increases up to its highest state of perfection, and first suffers a gradual re- trogression, after the extinction of the repro- ductive function, but never entirely disappears. The signification and true homologies of this singular organ cannot be understood without first briefly examining the mode of formation and development of the Wolffian body, and tracing its relation to the genera- tive gland and Fallopian tube. In this exa- mination it is also of consequence to compare the progressive steps of formation of those parts with the corresponding structures in the male. The Wolffian body is most readily exa- mined in the chick, (Jigs. 399, 400.) Here during the third day of incubation are formed two canals which extend along the sides of the vertebral column, from the heart to the posterior extremity of the body. To the inner side of each canal is attached a series of blind pouches (Jig. 399. c and 4C0. b), which during the next two days become lengthened and convoluted. These together constitute the Wolffian body. Behind them, and formed independently at a somewhat later period, lie the kidneys (fig. 399. and 400. a) and supra- renal bodies, (fig. 399. f, 400. d) and as these increase, the Wolffian bodies diminish. The testes (fig. 399. e) and ovaria (fig. 400. c) are developed upon the inner border, and in front of the corpora Wolffiana. Fig. 399. Kidneys, Wolffian bodies, and testes of an embryo bird. Magnified. (After Matter.') a, kidney; b, ureter; e, Wolffian body; <f, excre- tory duct of the fatter, which, according to the views of Miiller and Kolielt, afterwards becomes the vas deferens; e, generative gland, afterwards be- coming testes ; f, supra-renal capsules. In the female chick, according to Miiller, there is always seen an oviduct (fig. 400. g), Fig: 400. Kidneys, Wolffian bodies, ovaries, and oviducts of a fatal bird, at a period when both oviducts are still of nearly equal size. Magnified. (After Miiller.') a, kidney; b, Wolffian body, c, ovary, the right * rather the smaller; d, supra-renal capsule; f, ex- cretory duct of the Wolffian bod3', which in the- female becomes obliterated, but in the male is con- verted into vas deferens; g, duct of Miiller, after - wards oviduct or Fallopian tube. * The drawing has been reversed in engraving. The left, therefore, should be here the right side.