OVUM. 51 e 2 sule of similar consistence and structure, but of a simple elongated ellypsoidal shape, and in place of four terminal angular tubes, a number of trumpet-shaped tubular processes project- ing from the middle of the two ends, which probably serve the same purposes as the differently shaped appendages of the ova of the shark and skate. Fig. 33. External form of ova o f Oviparous Cartilaginous Fishes. a. Ovum of the common skate fish, a portion re- moved from one side of the coriaceous envelope to show the yolk floating in the white: one-third the natural size. B. Ovum of the shark, squalus catulus, also opened: half the natural size. c. Ovum of the Myxine glutinosa, entire: natural size. d. Enlarged view of one of the 25—30 tuhular funnel-shaped processes from the same ovum; the attached end is at d. In birds, it is well known that the yolk and germ, with their enclosing vitelline membrane, are produced in the ovary, while the albumen, chalazre, membrane, and shell are more rapidly formed and are added during the passage of the egg through the oviduct. It is by an entirely similar process that these accessory parts are * formed in the scaly reptiles, the eggs of which agree with those of birds in the most essential points. The albumen, however, is generally in less quantity and softer, and the twisted chalazas have not been observed. The mem- brane which immediately covers the albumen has the same structure as that of the bird's egg; and the calcareous shell, when it exists, as in turtles and crocodiles, is more porous and thinner. In cartilaginous fishes there is also a glairy albumen investing the yolk, and secreted from the oviduct. In most animals of the second group, or with the large-yolked ova, the vitelline substance consists almost entirely of oily and albuminous matter enclosed in or- ganised cells, the nature of which differs, as previously explained, in the vicinity of the germ and in the other parts of the yolk; this substance contains, besides, the peculiar co- louring matter which has given the name to this part of the egg. In all of them a cicatri- cula exists, which is the seat of the germinal vesicle, and of the first formation of the rudiments of the embryo. The ovum of the frog, when newly expelled from the oviduct of the parent, consists of the yolk-ball, closely surrounded by a tough layer of peculiar albuminous matter deposited on it in the course of its passage through the oviduct. This substance has the property of imbibing a large, but yet a limited, quantity of water whenever it is immersed in it; and thus, within a short time after the expulsion of the egg from the female, the external sub- stance has assumed a gelatinous consistence, ami has enlarged to such an extent as to be on every side equal in thickness to the dia- meter of the dark-coloured yolk within. I shall have occasion afterwards to state more particularly the important relation which subsists between this process of imbibition and the action of the spermatic substance in fecundation. In the common frog, the ova are thus united in large masses, floating in the water of stagnant pools or rivulets : in the common toad, they are united in long cords, which become entangled among aquatic plants. In the newts, the external covering of the ovum is membranous, homogeneous and transparent, and of an elongated oval shape, and there is merely fluid intervening between it and the spherical yolk and its membrane ; but when the ova are deposited by the parent in the folded leaves of water-plants or other situations, a small quantity of a peculiar glu- tinous matter, not readily acted on by water, is excreted along with the ova, which serves to fix the ova in a suitable place during the development of the young.* Various ex- amples of a similar kind occur among the oviparous animals of the invertebrata, more especially among insects and mollusca, when the ova are destined to remain exposed, and require protection during a considerable time before development takes place. In batrachia the yolk is variously coloured ' in different species : thus, in the common frog, toad, and some others, the surface or ger- minal part of the yolk is of a black or dark- brown colour, owing to a deposit of pigment granules in the cells of the germinal layer, while the remainder of the yolk internally is grey. In some other batrachia the colour is light brown. In the larger water-newt, or triton, the yolk is of a brilliant light yellow ; while in the smaller one, or lissotriton, it is * See the interesting description of this process by Euseoni, in Amours des Salamandres Aquatiques; Milan, 4to. 1821. 1 have often confirmed his ob- servations on this process in ponds, and with animals kept in vessels in the house.