UTERUS—(Normal Anatomy). 635 being inseparable from the peritoneum by which they are covered. These flat, thin, layers are continuous with and extended upon and into the broad and round ligaments, the Fallopian tubes, and the ligaments of the ovary, from which they spread out fan-shaped over the fundus and upper portion of the anterior and posterior uterine walls; meeting at length in a central perpendicular raphe, in which a few longitudinal bundles may be generally seen. These tegumental lamina? are composed almost entirely of fusiform fibres, with very few embryonic corpuscles. They are united Portion of uterine tissue from the external muscular layers close to the peritoneum. {Ad Nat. x 150.) together by a large proportion of strongly fibrillated connective tissue, which is, how- ever, sufficiently lax to permit a certain amount of artificial separation of the laminae. Within these laminae the fibre-cells are arranged in a manner somewhat different from that which characterises the internal strata. The amount of amorphous connecting matrix is here so small that the fibre-cells lie ap- parently in close apposition, their extremities interdigitating with each other, so as to form an imbricated pattern {fig- 434.). These fibres do not so frequently change their course as the fibres of the innermost strata, but form a more continuous series ; so that sections of this part of the muscular coat are easily ob- tained, exhibiting the appearance of longitu- dinal strata, or bundles of fibre, such as are represented in Jig. 437. The course of the individual fibres within them is, however, traced with difficulty, on account of the large quantity of fibrillated connective tissue by which these layers are surrounded and con- joined. Immediately beneath the peritoneum all the constituents of the muscular coat are con- densed into a tissue which cannot be easily unravelled. Through this, however, nume- rous fibres may be seen to run in a direction more or less perpendicular to the surface, apparently for the purpose of connecting the peritoneum with the coat beneath. The mucous or deciduous coat; Lining mem- brane of the cavily of the uterus.—This forms a moderately thick and soft layer which lines the entire cavity of the uterus, and is con- tinuous with the lining membrane of the Fallopian tubes, and of the cervical canal. On account of the large supply of capillary vessels which it receives, the mucous mem- brane is usually distinguished from the rest of the uterine parietes by its brighter red colour. It presents also to the unaided eye, when horizontal sections are examined, an appear- ance of being thrown into minute folds run- ning perpendicular to the uterine cavity {fig. 438.). These apparent foldings, however, are shown by a strong lens to consist of a series of ramified canals, which constitute the most remarkable peculiarity of this mem- brane. The proportionate thickness of the mucous membrane relatively to the rest of the uterine walls, though variable in respect of age and other circumstances, is usually about ^th of their diameter. Its greatest thickness is found about the middle of the cavit)', while towards the internal os uteri, and still more in the region of the fundus, the thickness is slightly diminished. To the unaided eye, the mucous membrane lining the body of the uterus, when viewed from the uterine cavity, is apparently smooth, or is seen to be perforated by minute aper- tures, but it rarely presents the appearance of deep folds or plicae such as are always found in the cavity of the cervix. Occasion- ally the surface is roughened and floculcnt from the exfoliation of its epithelial cover-