519 RUMINANTIA. sinuses. These spaces do not exist in certain of the antelopes, as for example in the Gazelle (A. dorcas) and the Sasin (A. cervicapra). The horns exhibit a great variety of curva- Fig. 342. Front view of the cranium of the Chousingha. (From a specimen in Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) ture and outline, and in those of the Cabrit or Prong-horn Antelope (A. furcifcr), we have an approach toward the cervine type. The prong is situated about half way up, and may be considered as analogous to the brow- antler ; immediately below it the root is rough, scabrous, and nodulated, being co- vered also by a hairy integument (fig. 343.). Fig. 343. v f Horns of the Cabrit. (From a specimen in Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) In the Buffaloes the horns acquire a pro- digious size, and the cuticular sheath forms, in some instances, a thick envelope over the entire forhead. Vertebral column and bones of the trunk. — Considerable disparity prevails in the length of different portions of the spine, depending upon the comparative elongation of the individual bones, and not upon their number. The following table, selected from Cuvier, illustrates the trifling deviations in a nume- rical point of view, — the seven cervicals being added and indicated in the totals : — D. Tj. s. G. TOTALS. v^amei — - 12 7 4 17 47 Vicugna 1 9 IS 7 0 1 9 1.2 ]\losch us - 13 g 3 14 43 Red Deer 13 g 16 46 Giraffe - ■ 14 5 4 18 48 Gazelle - ■ 13 6 4 14 44 Chousingha - 13 5 4 14 43 Goat - 13 6 4 12 42 Sheep - 13 6 4 16 46 Ox - 13 6 5 18 49 In Camelidae the bodies of the vertebrae of the neck are much lengthened (fig. 323.), but it is in the Giraffe (fig. 345.) that we see the most remarkable conformity to the cer- vical type in this respect. The spinous pro- cesses of this division of the column are lessened in all mammiferous animals in pro- portion to the length of the cervix, and therefore we find them in the above men- tioned ruminants almost entirely effaced (ex- cept in the seventh vertebrae) to admit of free motion backward. This action is further facilitated in the Camels and in the Giraffe by the ball and socket-like conformation of the articular ends of each vertebral body, as pointed out by Profs. De Blainville and Owen. The anterior extremity of the " cen- trum " is convex (fig. 344.), and the poste- Fig. 344. Section of the cervical vertebra; of the Camel. (From Coll. Surg. Museum.) rior concave, but there is no intervertebral synovial apparatus as seen in reptiles. The transverse processes in the short-necked typical ruminants are compressed, and form double " apophyses" on either side. The anterior or inferior pair are directed forward, and the posterior or superior project laterally, their common expanded base being pierced for the passage of the vertebral artery. In the latter particular, a similar arrangement obtains in the Giraffe, but the openings are placed nearer the spinal canal, because the transverse processes are feebly developed, as in all other long-necked ruminants. The Camels and Llamas do not exhibit the per- foration in question. In them, the vertebral arteries enter the posterior opening of the great neural canal, external to the dura-matral sheath, and in this position they are partly lodged in a groove at the base of the superior lamina. At the anterior part of the bone this channel becomes arched over for a short space, and converted into a distinct passage 1 l 4