[104] » OV dicle, he affirms consists only of the ovarian structure, and of no part of the membranes of the ovum. From his observations on Gaster- osteus, in which the projecting bodies from the porous or outer membrane in the vicinity of the micropyle enable this part to be easily recognised, he feels confident that if any pediculated connection had existed it could hardly have escaped notice. When the ovarian ovum has attained ma- turity it falls into the cavity of the ovary, or that which may be regarded as ovary and oviduct united, by the rupture of the ovarian capsule in which it is contained The walls of the ovi-capsules have by this time become extremely thin ; but according to Von Baer a small stigma or non-vascular mark may be dis- tinguished where the rupture takes place. After the ova have fallen into the common cavity they are surrounded by a considerable amount of secreted albuminous matter, by which in some fishes the ova are covered when excluded. In some this albuminous se- cretion serves to unite the spawn in chains or networks. In other fishes the ova are covered externally with villous projections; but the manner in which these are formed has not yet, so far as I am aware, been observed. One of the most remarkable, but as yet quite unexplained, varieties in the external coverings of the ovum in one of the osseous fishes, is that discovered and recently de- scribed by Ernst Hackel, as occurring in the family of Scomberesoces.* This consists in the formation, in the space between the sur- face of the yolk and the vitelline membrane (that is, the porous membrane), of a layer of long and very distinct fibres, which are wound somewhat spirally, but irregularly, over the surface of the yolk. Hackel has traced the gradual formation of these in fresh specimens of Belone from points on the surface of the yolk-substance; and in other genera he has observed several varieties in the forms of the fibres. They are on an average about 3 5V0" thick, and long enough to surround the egg several times ; and they appear to resemble the fibres of the elastic yellow tissue more than any other animal substance, but do not entirely agree with them. In the meantime we must suspend our judgment as to this very extraordi- nary addition to the surface of the ovum until farther observations shall have been made as to their distribution in various fishes or other animals, and as to their relation to the. deve- lopment of the embryo, f * Midler's Archiv. 1855, p. 23. See plates IV. and V. t Some time after the above was in the hands of the printer, I received the first and second parts of the seventh volume of the Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool., containing a notice of the discovery of the micropyle in tlie Salmo salar, and S. fario, by Professor Bruch of Basle. The observations leading to this discovery were made in the winter of 1854-5 ; and it is right to state here, that Dr. Ransom's dis- covery of the micropyle in the gasterosteus, which was communicated to the Royal Society on the 23rd of November, 1854, was made in the months of June and July previous; and these observations had been JM. 1 Invertebrate Animals.—The ova of Inverte brata may be considered under two princi- pal divisions, according as they present more of the large-celled or of the finely granular yolk-substance. The ova of the first kind are usually of a larger size; they possess a larger germinal vesicle, and often a divided or multiple macula ; and the process of seg- mentation in them is either partial, that is, limited to one part of the surface of the yolk, or it occurs in a different manner on the upper and lower sides of the ovum. In these there is, in fact, nutritive as well as formative yolk. In the other division of animals the yolk is finally molecular, or is mainly composed of smaller granules, and is chiefly of the formative kind ; segmentation usually involves the whole yolk, or if not so, is very nearly complete: the germinal vesicle is generally clear, and the macula most frequently single, and well marked. It is true that the form and struc- ture of the ova of Invertebrata presents many and considerable varieties, as might indeed be expected among animals of such diversity of organisation as belongs to the great divisions of the Radiata, Articulata, and Mollusca; but still it is to be observed that as a greater degree of simplicity exists in the form and structure of the primordial elements than in the more developed textures and organs of ani- mals, so also we find that much closer analogies may be traced among these elements in the lowest classes of the animal kingdom. We meet, tberefore,with little difficulty, even in the most diverse tribes of the Invertebrate animals in tracing the correspondence of the essential parts of the ovum,; and we are enabled also to trace a more close analogy between these and the corresponding parts in the Vertebrata than might have been expected. We are there- fore warranted in applying to thein similar designations ; and we have daily increasing reason to trust to observations made on the ovology of the lower animals as the means of extending the knowledge of the reproductive functions in Vertebrata and in Man. Thus the recent discovery of the micropyle aperture in some animals, and the certain and clear ob- servation of the penetration of the sperma- comniunicated to Professor Sharpey and myself in August and September. In the beginning of January, 1855, Dr. Ransom informed me by letter of his having found the micropyle also in the Trout, and a few days later in the Salmon. I then saw the micropyle in the ova of both of these fishes; and I have since examined it minutely in the Stickleback, and have confirmed in evei-y particular Dr. Ransom's statements. The existence of the micropyle in these Vertebrate animals has thus been established by several independent observations; and I believe that no one who uses the proper means can fail to detect it in these and other fishes. Professor Bruch's ob- servations were chiefly made on the ova after im- pregnation, which may explain the reason of his having failed to perceive the connection pointed out between this aperture and the depression in the centre of the germ disc. Bruch was like myself unsuccessful in perceiving the entrance of sperma- tozoa by the micropyle. His measurement of the micropyle in the. Salmon and Trout does not agree with mine, making it much smaller.