60 OVUM. comparatively large veins which constitute the hollow spaces. The ends of these veins, then, look towards the inner surface of the membrane; and the appearance of a divided cavity in some of the supposed follicles is merely caused by two or more veins meet- ing in a common dilatation at this place. The capillary vessels, in passing into these large commencements of the veins seem to converge from its circumference to its centre. In the enlarged ovarian capsules of the turtle, a somewhat similar arrangement may be observed ; but I have not had an oppor- tunity of tracing its relation to the blood- vessels ; nor have I had the means of ascer- taining whether anything of the same kind exists in other reptiles with large yolks. In the skate 1 have not been able to perceive any similar arrangement; and in the Graafian vesicle of mammalia the lining membrane presents internally a smooth surface destitute of any appearance of depressions or of pecu- liar venous sinuses. The appearance which I have just now described had not escaped the notice of Von Baer; for at p. 23 of his work on develop- ment, he mentions the existence of clearer points in the inner membrane of the theca, and states his opinion that they may be open mouths of blood-vessels, by means of which the yolk may be nourished by the direct access of blood to it. In the naked amphibia and osseous fishes, the ovaries (of which the general form has been previously noticed) present a still greater decrease in the proportion of the stroma to the ovicapsules and ova. These capsules are themselves also of much more delicate struc- ture than in the higher animals ; but the rela- tion of the ovules to the ovicapsules in their formation, and the mode of their escape by the rupture of the theca, are essentially analogous to those of birds and reptiles. In the earliest condition, it is true, the ovary may present a greater amount of solidity in some of these animals ; but from the prodigious number of the germs of the ovules and the small quan- tity of the ovarian stroma, as soon as the ovary has made some progress in develop- ment, it acquires the appearance rather of a mere mass of ova connected together by a membrane and fine thread-like pedicles, than of a solid or consistent organ containing them. The delicate ovicapsules containing the ovules embrace them closely as in the large-yolked group of animals, there being little or no fluid between the capsules and the vitelline membrane. The structure of the ovaries in the inver- tebrate animals presents so many varieties that it would occupy too much space to allude to them here. I refer the reader for information regarding them to the article Organs of Generation, and others on par- ticular classes and orders of animals in dif- ferent parts of this work. For our present purpose the structure of these organs has been sufficiently indicated in the previous section. In conclusion, it may be right to recapitulate the general nature of the ovary or formative organ in its relation to the production of ova. A comparison of the forms previously indicated leads to the general view that the ovary is to be regarded as analogous to the glandular organs. In the great majority of animals highest in the scale, the ovisacs are close fol- licles from which the product of formation (or secretion) escapes by the bursting of the wall of the follicle — in the highest animals, on the external surface of the organ, in those coming next in the series, towards an internal cavity. In other instances, principally among the lower animals, the structure is more ana- logous to that we are accustomed to consider as characteristic of the true glands, in which the secreted cellular product is formed within the same or a continuation of the tubular ducts themselves by which they make their escape. The more complex structure of the capsules in which the large-yolked ovules are produced in birds constitutes a special appa- ratus, which, though without follicular com- plication, may be looked upon as a modifica- tion or higher degree of development of the glandular structure of the ovary, provided for the rapid formation of the larger mass of nutritive substance which is present in these ova. § 4. More detailed description of the ovum of birds as the ti/pe of the 1st group. Having in the previous section given a sketch of the general resemblances and dif- ferences observed among the ova of various animals, I now proceed to describe more in detail an example from each of the three groups previously distinguished, and more particularly those of Birds and Mammalia, which demand the greatest share of our atten- tion in the study of development ; and first as to the ovum of the common fowl. Quantity of matter, composition, <yc. — The average dimensions of the fowl's egg in this country are the following: The long diameter 2\ inches, short diameter If inch. The aver- age weight of eggs of this size is a little more than 2 oz. avoird., or 920 grains.* The extremes in weight which I have ob- served among eggs of the fowl naturally formed are 750 and 1060 grains. Double-yolked eggs are, as might be expected, much larger, reaching often a weight of 1400 grains, or 3\ oz. The yolk weighs about a third of the whole ; the albumen, membrane, and shell forming the remaining two thirds. These parts of the egg are in the following propor- tions to each other in 100 parts ; the albu- * The following is a comparative view of the average size and weight of the eggs of the com- mon fowl, duck, turkey, and goose. Length Breadth (in inches). Fowl - 2-25 1-7 Duck - 2-5 1-75 Turkey 2-7 1-0 Goose - 3 3 2-4 Weight (in grains). 920 nearly 2 oz. 1100 1h oz. 1300 3 oz. 2600 6 oz.