307 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. x 2 7. Finally, we may close these vague con- jectures by attempting to include, in one for- mula, most of the varieties seen in the whole animal kingdom. The complexity of the di- gestive apparatus varies with that of the digestive function. And this is again the product of two chief elements:—the kind of food used; the nature of the animal to be nourished. In respect to the food, we might almost form a scale of decreasing simplicity, begin- ning with the rich chylous fluid that bathes the intestinal parasite, and passing through the various gradations of liquor sanguinis, blood, flesh more or less decomposed, vege- table juices, fruits, vegetables, and grains: — gradations which, however increased in number and minuteness, would all find their corresponding representatives in Natural His- tory. And we have already seen that, through- out the Vertebrate series, there is a constant association of a long intestine or a compli- cated stomach, with a vegetable diet. As regards the nature of the animal, the Acalephan, Crustacean, Cephalopod, Fish, Bird, Cetacean, all prey upon fish. Yet not only are their organs of digestion most di- verse, but they even exhibit a certain corre- spondence with the general development of each animal. Nor is it difficult to imagine why this is the case. Looking only at the unity of the organism, we might a priori expect, that a high development of the whole would imply an equal advance in the complexity of its chief parts. To this we may add, that one organ seems in a certain sense comple- mentary to another,—the necessary, and not merely the formal, result of an increased evolution of its fellow. And, in conclusion, it is not unlikely that the complexity of the digestive organ in the higher animals may be referred to causes even more immediate than either of the preceding: — viz., to the more composite chemistry of their structure, and the more rapid and energetic change of their substance. The structure of every animal is so far self-regulative, as to determine the perma- nence of its own composition, by a process of which the blood is one main agent, and the tis- sues generally another. But there is no rea- son why we should exclude a third — why we may not suppose that the chemical assimila- tion or likening of the foreign substances taken as food is commenced in the course of the digestive act — why, in short, the absorp- tion of more numerous, abundant, and com- plex alimentary principles may not necessitate the co-operation of a more highly developed digestive organ. Human Anatomy.— The alimentary canal of Man is a long membranous tube, which, commencing at the mouth, successively occupies the regions of the neck, chest, belly, and pelvis, to terminate at the lower orifice of the latter cavity in the aperture of the anus. In this course, the canal first forms at the back of the mouth a dilatation, called the pharynx. It next contracts into a straight cylindrical tube, the cesophagus, which is continued through the neck and chest. Immediately after perforating the diaphragm, or septum which divides the thorax from the abdomen, it expands into the stomach (c,Jig. 241.). An external constriction and an internal valve (p, fig. 241.) mark the boundary between this organ and the intes- tine, which forms the remainder of the tube. And, finally, at about five-sixths of its length, the intestine is subdivided into two portions, by an alteration in size and character, which commences at a point corresponding to the presence of a caecum or blind pouch exter- nally, and of a valve internally. Of these two segments, the upper, longer, and narrower, is called the small intestine (j, i,fig. 239.) ; and the lower or wider, the large intestine (cc, ac, tc, dc, sc, n, fig. 239.). Fig. 239. Stomach and intestinal canal of the adult human subject. c P, stomach ; c, cardiac; p, pyloric orifice ; j i, small intestine; j, jejunum; i, ileum; c c to a, large intestine, viz.:—c e, caecum; A c, ascending colon; t c, transverse colon ; d c, descending colon ; s F, sigmoid flexure or sigmoid colon ; r, rectum ; a, anus. It is the three latter portions of the ali- mentary canal,—viz., the stomach, small in- testine and large intestine,—which form the especial subject of the following article. They all possess the same general structure; being composed of three coats or tunics — an exter- nal and serous, a middle and muscular, and an internal and mucous coat. The first of these constitutes their means of attachment to