i OVUM. and almost always exhibiting, when recently mixed witli water, vivid vibratory or undula- tory movements, but in a few animals present- ing other forms, and without motion. These spermatic filaments or particles are developed by a peculiar process in the interior of the cells (sperm-cells) secreted in the male organ or testis. When the ovarian ovum has arrived at maturity, the germ cell disappears as such, and if fecundation shall have taken place, that vesicle is succeeded by another minute cell, with which the origin and development of the new animal are most intimately associated. This secondary organic cell of the fecundated ovum has therefore been called the Embryo- cell. The first changes, preparatory to the commencement of the development of an embryo, consist in the formation out of the embryo-cell and yolk substance of an organised cellular mass, or of a membranous covering of the whole or a part of the yolk: this is the germ-mass, Blastoderm, or germinal membrane. Fig. 3. Fecundated Ovum of a Mammifer, with the Embryo Cell and its division. a, ovum witli the first embryo-cell ; b, division of embryo-cell and cleavage of the yolk round it; c, second division and cleavage ; d, farther division ; and e, germ-mass or Blastoderm forming; f, dia- gram of the embryo with its membranes, the am- nion, allantois, &c, within the chorion. The process by which this primary organised part is produced varies somewhat in different animals; but it appears to consist in a mul- tiplication of the embryo-cell by changes of the nature of cytogenesis, accompanied with more or less of a cleavage or sub-division of the substance of the yolk, and its com- bination with the progeny of the embryo-cell. The general result is, that the first rudiments of the new being take their origin in organic cells, which are descended from the original embryo-cell. From this blastodermic mass or membrane, the embryo, or foetus, or new animal, and in the higher animals some accessory parts, which are temporarily united with the embryo previous to its birth, originate, and are'gra- dually formed, by a various process of pro- gressive organic growth of an epigenetic character, which is termed Development, or Embryo-genesis. In by far the greater number of animals an ovum gives rise to only one embryo or indi- vidual, and this one becomes by itself, when its growth is complete, the perfect sexual animal, capable of contributing its share to the pro- duction of fecundated ova. But in a certain number of animals, to which allusion will be made more fully afterwards, the immediate product of development from the ovum is not at once, and by itself, converted into a com- plete sexual individual; but by an intermediate non-sexual process of production, one or more new individuals are formed out of the body of that first developed, and to the last so formed is committed the office of sexual reproduction, or true generation. The essential conditions and phenomena, therefore, of the sexual process of generation, as related to the ovum, and as limited by the foregoing considerations, may be shortly stated to be the following.— 1st. The formation of the ovarian ovum of the female sex, containing the germ-cell. 2nd. The formation of the sperm-cells of the male sex, and the development of their peculiar spermatic elements. 3rd. The mutual action of these two pro- ducts in the fecundation of the ovum. 4th. The disappearance of the germ-cell of the ovarian ovum, and the formation of the embryo-cell in the fecundated egg. 5th. The multiplication of the embryo-cell by cytogenesis, and the formation from that body, and from the yolk, or a part of it, of the blastodermic mass or membrane. 6th. The process of embryo-genesis, or development of the systems, organs, and textures of the new animal. It is right to state that the original germ- cell has not yet been ascertained to exist in the ovum of every animal,nor has its successor, the embryo-cell, been observed in all instances ; but they have been detected in so very large a proportion, that it appears extremely pro- bable that in all sexual animals the generative process consists in the process above described, or in some modification of it. I refrain at present from farther details as to these phe- nomena, and have stated the results only in their most general form, because I shall have occasion to return upon some of them in a subsequent part of the article. Looking back on this general statement of the com- mencement and progress of the genetic process in animals, it will be seen that the new being may be considered as taking its immediate origin from the progeny of cells descended from the embryo-cell. That