PELVIS. 154 The ilia are narrow and cylindrical; pubes long, large, oblique, with no ilio-pectineal apo- physis; ischia short, with horizontal rami and tuberosities passing backward to articulate with the transverse processes of the upper coccygeal vertebra;, another bird-like arrange- ment. In L.indri the sacral pieces are four, with complete ankylosis, the two or three upper articulating with the ilia. Ilia expanded, with extended crest and external fossa, and reaching to the penultimate lumbar vertebrae; ischia very short, with more expanded tubers ; pubes less oblique. In L. volans, or Galco- pitkecus, the sacrum has five vertebra?, the first only articulating with ilia. Ilia small and narrow ; ischia with large posterior angle; pubic symphysis very short. In the sub- genus Sterops, the slender Loris presents a remarkably elongated and contracted pelvis. The sacrum is long and narrow, with the two upper pieces articulating with ilia. Ilia slender, long and columnar, and nearly parallel with spinal column ; ischia small, flattened laterally, placed in a line with the-ilia, and very near each other, so that the cotyloid cavities are closely approximated; the lateral diameters very short, Fig. 93. _ and the inferior outlet a mere JlV chink. The pubes are long, OvAV; projecting forwards, down- llps'fe wards, and inwards, being in- iRfef^L clined to each other at an « ll, ' iK angle of 40°, causing the * ft suPer'or outlet to be trian- % I8f\ gular, with the base at the lV!w\J inter-cotyloid diameter, and the IKHP apex at the symphysis pubis. |V| This pelvis is also remark- l Mm. a^e ^01" t'1G extreme angularity c^^Aitrh °ftne Pumc portion with the 00&^^m*g iliac, the ilio-pubic angle being ^y?L /'m'M, 75°> or 'ess tnan a rig'11 angle, ^ Jf$W tne onb' instance of the kind / jSzJr J iiave met with. (See fig. W 93. a, b, c). Pelvis of the slender Loris, lateral view. The animals most allied to the preceding order of primates in the form of the pelvis, taken in conjunction with their general struc- ture, are the Carnivora. In these, as in most multidigital animals, the pelvis is so con- tracted that the trunk resembles an in- verted pyramid; whereas in man, constructed for an erect posture, the base of the pyramid is in the pelvis. Climbing animals, such as the Apes, Bears, and Sloths, present the nearest approach to the human structure in this particular. In estimating the sacro- and ilio-vertebral angles in the succeeding orders of Mammalia, it should be observed that, from the coin- cidence of the lumbar curve with the great dorsal curvature of the spinal column and the elevation of the neck, the vertebras cannot be considered as being placed in one general plane, as in man. The line of direction of the lumbar vertebra? has, therefore, been taken for the sacral and iliac angles. The sacrum, in the Carnivora (a, fig. 94.), is narrow, flat, and triangular, with long and distinct spinous processes, and placed almost in a right line with the spine. In the Bear, however, from its climbing habits, the sacrum is broader, larger, and more massy, and the sacro-vertebral angle more marked. The number of sacral vertebrae is three in the great majority of the species, the two upper articulating with the ilia ; but in the Hyasna there are but two, in the Tiger four, in the brown Bear five, and in the white Bear as many as seven. The coccygeal or caudal ver- tebrae (b) are generally very numerous. The ilia are moderately long, thick, and narrow in their whole extent, and are placed very obliquely upon the lumbar vertebrae, forming with them an angle of about 150° to 160° ; but in the Bear and Hyaena 140° only. The external surface of the elongated iliac wing is concave, and the internal flat and turned inwards towards the spine ; the crest (c) thick, narrow, acutely arched, and pro- jecting backwards beyond the spinal column. The ischia are long, strong, prismatic, some- what expanded posteriorly, and considerably divergent, but directed in the same antero- posterior plane with the ilia, forming toge- ther a very long ilio-ischion element. This disappearance of the antero-posterior, ilio- ischial angle, which commenced in the Apes, is, in the Carnivora, arrived at its greatest extent, and in the Tiger is even reversed or bent downwards in the opposite direc- tion about 15° (see fig. 112. 5). With the great obliquity of the ilia, this affords, in the quadruped position, a longer and more power- ful leverage for the muscles of the hinder extremities to execute their characteristic bounds, and, like the reverse formation of the ilio-pubic angle, it is another great distinction between these and human pelves. The ischial tuberosities (<?) have an outward direction, as well as the ischia generally, and the spine (g) is a mere rudimentary ridge. The pubes are short, and the symphysis (/) is long, being formed generally both by the ischium and pubis. The ilio-pubic angle varies from 110° in the Tiger, to 120° in the Lion and Leopard, and 125° in the Bear and Hyaena. The anterior pelvic outlet is smaller than the posterior, from the divergence of the ischia pos- teriorly ; and the cotyloid cavities are inclined outwards slightly, so as to overhang the femora in the prone position. The centre of gravity, in these animals, being placed much nearer the anterior than the posterior extremities, the former bear the most of the weight, while the latter act more as impelling agents in the powerful bounds which they execute. The ilia of the Bear are shorter, thicker, and more massive, with more expanded wings, a better-marked anterior superior spine, and a more marked luinbo-iliac angle; the ischia short and widely expanded, and the pubes remark- ably strong, with a very long symphysis. At