UTERUS — (Functions). 671 blood. And thus, by each act of menstrua- tion, the uterus is placed in a state of prepa- ration for that profuse development of its tissues which impregnation may at any time of the succeeding interval call forth. The office of the litems in insemination.— After menstruation, which is to be regarded as a process preparatory to impregnation, the next office of the uterus is that of receiving the seminal fluid, and apparently of conducting it to the Fallopian tubes, by which again it may, in rare instances, be carried as far as the ovary. To this office the form of the uterus appears to be well adapted in all its parts. For, first, the cervix uteri is so constructed as to lie in the centre of the upper dilated portion or fornix of the vagina, into which it projects to a distance of 3—4/". This dilated ex- tremity of the vagina forms a pouch which re- ceives the extremity of the intromittent organ, and in this receptacle the seminal fluid is de- posited. But, on account of the natural posi- tion of the uterus, which lies in the axis of the pelvic brim, while the course of the vagina corresponds with that of the cavity and out- let (Jig. 433.), the cervix uteri is so directed (downwards and backwards) as to cause the os uteri externum to be maintained in the very centre of this pouch, so that the seminal fluid will be retained in a situation in which it is most certain to flow through this orifice into the cervix.* But the cervical canal is traversed by numerous furrows, which will act as so many channels, conducting the semen to the internal os, while the dilated central portion of that canal (fig. 424.) serves the purpose of a second reservoir. It may also be readily believed that, the ejaculatory act on the part of the male will suffice to carry the seminal fluid thus far, although the impetus with which it is propelled having been checked by the constriction caused by the external os uteri, would hardly suffice to carry it much beyond the more narrow bar- rier existing at the internal os. Or if it should pass this second obstacle, the almost complete apposition of the walls of the uterus would prevent any considerable penetration of the semen further into the uterine cavity, so far as this is dependent on the act of ejaculation. But this very apposition of the uterine walls may, in another manner, assist the onward progress of the semen, by inducing a kind of * Dr. James Blundell has described a peculiar movement which he observed in the vagina of the rabbit, and which serves to explain the mode of in- troduction of the seminal fluid into the uterus:— " This canal during the heat is never at rest; it shortens, it lengthens, it changes continually in its circular dimensions; and when irritated especially will sometimes contract to one-third of its quiescent diameter. In addition to this action the vagina performs another," which "consists in the falling down, as it were, of that part of the vagina which lies in the vicinity of the wombs; so that it every now and then lays itself as flatly over their orifices as we should apply the hand over the mouth in an endeavour to stop it. How well adapted the whole of this curious movement is for the introduction of the semen at the opening it is needless to explain." —Researches Phys. and Pathol, p. 55. 1825. capillary attraction, such, for example, as will cause water to rise, to a certain distance, be- tween two plates of glass placed in close con- tact. The rigid walls of the human uterus, which are normally in such close apposition that sections made in certain directions scarcely suffice to display any appreciable cavity (figs. 426. and 4-27.), seem admirably adapted to fa- vour this gradual rise of the seminal fluid be- tween them towards the Fallopian tubes ; and thus a compensation is provided for that peri- staltic movement, which, in some mammalia with a more intestiniform and less rigid uterus, appears, under the influence of the coitus, to affect alike the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes*,and to suffice for the conveyance of the seminal fluid from one extremity to the other of the generative track. The action of the cilia of the uterine epi- thelium cannot, in any way, contribute to this result, if those observations are correct which agree in assigning to them a movement such as would create a current from within out- wards ; for it is obvious that such a motion would tend to retard rather than to advance the progress of the seminal fluid towards the Fallopian tubes. If therefore any other power is needed to account for this movement, it must be sought in the action of the spermatic particles them- selves. For, little adapted as their motions appear to anything like onward progression, yet they have been observed to continue long after ejaculation, in the fluid found within the uterus and tubes, and even upon the ovary.-j- It has been also proved beyond doubt that by this power the spermatozoa penetrate the ovum itself J, and therefore to it may be attributed a certain share in the progress of the seminal particles through the uterus towards the ovi- ducts, although this may not be a very con- siderable one. Finally, it is possible that in man and the mammalia some such remarkable property may be possessed by the spermatozoa as that which I have observed in certain annellides. If a portion of the contents of the testis of the com- mon earth-worm (Lumbricus agrico/a, HofFm.) be placed under the microscope between two slips of glass, in about ten minutes the whole mass is seen to heave and writhe with aston- ishing energy, the form of the movement being that of the peristaltic action of the intestines (fig. 459.). Everything in contact with the spermatozoa becomes ciliated by them, one end of the filament fixing itself while the other vibrates free. The result is, that if the body to which the spermatozoa attach themselves is fixed, such as the glass, or the margin of a mass of granules, a line of cilia is formed whose action creates a strong current, and everything movable is drawn into the vortex, and is seen drifting rapidly along. But if the body to which they attach themselves is movable, then this soon becomes clothed with spermatozoa, * Blundell loc. cit.; see also p. 611. of this article. f See this article, p. 607. X Newport, Phil. Trans. 1853. Pt. II. p. 267.