TEG IJMENTARY ORGANS. 493 layer is formed by the successive deposit of calcareous laminae inwards. When the first lamina has been formed, a deposition of small cylindrical bodies takes place upon its inner surface. These increase, widen and become ramified at their extremities, forming ramified columns. A second calcareous lamina is now formed, connecting their ramified extremities, upon whose under surface the like process takes place, and this is repeated until the ven- tral layer has attained its full thickness. The ramified columns are regularly transversely striated; with the age of the shell additions are continually made to their lateral dimen- sions until they coalesce and constitute the septa of the perfect shell, upon which the striae remain visible. Kolliker was unable to find any cellular structure in the columns or laminae themselves, but describes a layer of nucleated cells under the shell, which he regards as the agents in its secretion. Some researches recently made by H. Miiller (Gegenbaur, Kolliker and H. Miiller, c.) corroborate this view. He finds the shell of the Loligidae invested by an ex- cessively vascular membrane, which is almost wholly covered by a layer of epithelial cells towards the shell. On the dorsal surface they are for the most part rounded ; on the abdo- minal surface, and particularly towards the anterior point, they form narrow cylinders which attain a length of as much as O-OT". They appear to give rise to the structureless layers of the shell. The lateral styles of the Octopods present similar relations. The structure thus described, though appa- rently so widely different from that of ordinary mollusks, does not really differ very widely from the cancellated shell structure of Rudis- tes, &c, or still better of Pleurorhynchus as described by Dr. Carpenter. If we leave out the sides of the hollow prisms in the latter shell in fact, it will correspond exactly with one lamella of the ventral layer of the sepiostaire. For a comparison of the shells of Spirula and Belemnites with those of Sepia and of Gasteropods, I must refer to Dr. Carpenter's Memoir so often cited. 2. Conversionary integument of the Mollusca containing cellulose. — This form of integument has hitherto been found in the Ascidians alone, in which the existence of cellulose was first detected by Schmidt in 1845. Schmidt's dis- covery was confirmed, the fact of the existence of cellulose in all the genera of Ascidians deter- mined, and the chief morphological characters of their test set forth in the memoirs by Lowig and Kolliker " Sur les Enveloppes des Tuni- ciers," which appeared in 1846, since when further investigations have been made by Schacht and by myself. I must refer the reader to these papers for an account of the various opinions which have been entertained with regard to the structure of the Ascidian test, as I can only lay before him what are in my belief the facts of the case. The test of the Ascidians is never composed of pure cellulose, but consists of an animal membranous matrix, to which the cellulose has the same relation as the calcareous salts have to the membranous basis of bone or of shell. The cellulose is, in fact, diffused through the membranous matrix, thoroughly impreg- nating it. This membranous nitrogenous matrix in which the cellulose is deposited, presents great diversities of structure in the genera of Asci- dians, representing, in fact, almost every known tissue. Thus in one genus we have a test re- sembling cartilage ; in another, like bone ; in a third, like connective tissue. It may either be without vessels or traversed by branched and ramified vascular processes of the body. It is in all cases, however, a product of the metamorphosis of the ecderon of the outer tunic or mantle and, complicated as its struc- ture may be, corresponds morphologically with the shell of other mollusks, or with the epi- dermis of the higher animals. In fact, if a section be made through the outer tunic and test of an Ascidian, as mfig. 314. a, taking care not to disturb the natural relations of the parts, we observe at the line of contact between the outer tunic and the test (a) an arrange- ment of the parts very closely resembling what exists at the junction of the derma with the rete Malpighii in the human skin. The outer tunic, like the former, is constituted by bundles of rudimentary connective tissue which run inwards to form sheaths around the muscles, leaving between them spaces, the sinuses of the blood vascular system, while externally they fuse together into a homogeneous substance containing endo- plasts, which is thrown into processes and passes insensibly outwards into a layer of similar substance, with very close-set endo- plasts almost perpendicular to its surface, which forms the commencement of the proper test. Externally to this rete Malpighii, the deposit of cellulose commences; the tissue un- dergoing at the same time a fibrous metamor- phosis. The line a is therefore a protomor- phic line, and the test is the product of the growth and conversion, by deposit of cellulose within its elements, of a true ecderon. The separation of the ecderon (or test) from the enderon (outer tunic) takes place with great readiness in some Ascidians, as Phallusia,&c.; while in others, such as Boltenia, many Cynthiae, Salpae, &c, it can be effected with considerable difficulty, or not at all, and this difference has even been raised to the rank of a zoological distinction, the Ascidians having been in consequence divided into Monochito- nida and Dichitonida. I believe, however, that in all those Ascidians whose test is un- provided with vessels, it is, normally, closely adherent to the outer tunic, and I am inclined to think that this is equally true even of those forms, such as the Phallusiae, in which in preserved specimens the test and outer tunic are so commonly found detached from one another. Here, however, as the test is pro- vided with an abundant vascular supply pro- ceeding from one point of the body, it may normally become separated elsewhere. Care-