10* PANCREAS. The exact nature of Frerichs' water extract — Schmidt's organic matter—is not deter- mined ; it is a substance resembliny albumen or casein, but not identical with albuminate of soda, with casein, or with ptyalin. It coagu- lates only imperfectly when heated (probably from its containing an alkali), is precipitated by acetic acid, but slowly redissolved in an excess, especially if heated; it is precipitated by nitric acid and by alcohol; on the addition of chlorine-water it separates in grayish flakes. It is to this substance that the pancreatic fluid owes its principal chemical and physiological properties. Bernard found a considerable quantity, and Frerichs a smaller amount (,026 per cent) of a butter-like fat. The pancreatic secretion is peculiarly prone to putrefactive change. Bernard found that when exposed to a low temperature, it might be kept for many days, and that by the reduction of the temperature the viscidity was increased, approaching a jelly-like firmness. If, on the other hand, it was kept at a temperature of 40° to 45° centigrade (about 105° Fahr.), it became rapidly modified, and in the lapse of a few hours quite altered, giving out a nauseous odour, presenting a cloudy deposit, and losing its property of coagulation by heat. In the heat of summer and in stormy weather, this change takes place almost instantaneously, so that great care is necessary in maintaining at a low temperature both the pancreatic fluid and the animal furnishing it, lest the alteration should take place whilst it is still in the vessel in which it is being collected. Frerichs found that after exposure to the air for a few hours it developed a distinct odour of putrefaction. Bernard observed that the deposit that was produced at the moment of the alteration of the fluid, had sometimes a peculiar soft, silky appearance, and he always found in that case, on examining it by the microscope, a large quantity of acicular crystals, having the cha- racters of crystals of margarine or margaric acid. The secretion is not constant, but intermit- tent, and is entirely regulated by the process and stages of digestion ; all observers agree in this. Bernard killed three dogs in three dif- ferent conditions with regard to the function of digestion — one just after a meal, as diges- tion was just commencing; another four hours after a meal, when digestion was at its height; and a third after a twenty-four hours' fast. In the first, the tissue of the pancreas was slightly turgid with blood, and the secretion the most abundant, and this he has always found to be the case ; he collected upwards of two grammes an hour ; in the second, the pancreas was highly turgid — " gonjle de sang, et comme erectile," and the amount secreted less than a gramme an hour ; in the third it was white, exsanguine, the duct empty and collapsed, and the amount secreted in many hours hardly enough to moisten the inside of the little reservoir adapted for its reception. The information respecting the absolute quantitative relations of the secretion is very defective. We have seen that Lenret and Lassaigne obtained three ounces from the horse in half an hour, and Bernard from the dog thirty-one grains an hour; Frerichs col- lected three hundred and eighty grains from an ass in three quarters of an hour, and forty- five from a hound in twenty-five minutes ; but these statements, as well as those of Colin *, become valueless from the fact that the ani- mals experimented on were not weighed. The most reliable estimate is that of Bidder and Schmidt; they say a dog yields a grain and a half per hour for every two lbs. of weight; therefore an adult man weighing about 140 lbs., would secrete in twenty-four hours nearly five ounces of pancreatic juice, containing 225 grains of solid residue. But it is doubtful whether any safe data as to quantity are fur- nished, or can be furnished, by any experi- ments made by measuring the amount pro- cured artificially from the living animal; the abnormal condition of the gland produced by the experiment must be such, and the conse- -quent disturbance of the secretion so great, as to throw doubt on the most careful and exact estimates. The case in which the quantity seems most likely to be normal is that in which the secretion is obtained, as in some of Ber- nard's experiments, from a permanent fistulous opening. All observers confirm Bernard's statement as to the exsanguine and passive condition of the gland in animals fasting. The natural stimulus of the secretion is, no doubt, the digestive process going on in neighbouring organs, producing, through the medium of the sympathetic nervous connec- tions, a vascular engorgement of the pancreas and an exalted nutrition of its secreting agents. Possibly the pressure from a dis- tended stomach may have something to do with it; and there is reason to think that the presence of food in the duodenum is both a stimulus to the secretion and to its discharge; for on the application of chemical and me- chanical stimuli to the inner surface of the duodenum near the orifice of the duct, the amount discharged is sensibly increased. Possibly food of one nature in the duodenum may be a more exciting stimulus to the se- cretion than another. Whether this is so, whether the amount secreted would be ex- cited more by an animal than a vegetable food, whether it bears the same relation to the volume of the gland in Carnivora and Herbivora, or whether the volume of the gland is always a direct measure of the amount secreted, are questions upon which, as yet, our information is very defective. They are, however, not unimportant questions; for there is every reason to believe that the quantity secreted is always in proportion to the exigencies of the digestive process, and their solution might therefore throw some light upon the function of the secretion. There can be no doubt that muscular move- ment and pressure facilitate the discharge of the fluid, as most observers, from De Graaf * Comptes Rendus, vol. xxxi. p. 374., and vol. xxxii. p. 85.