390 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. examined. The muscular substance of Fishes contains a still greater quantity of albumen. That of the young of most animals is softer, and its fibres smaller and more digestible, than the flesh of the adult. The artificial preparation of animal food for the table probably induces a variety of chemical changes. But the full import of these changes has yet to be made out. At pre- sent, we know little except some of the more obvious physical results which attend the processes of cooking. These are best seen in the cooking of meat. The increased digestibility of meat which has been killed some time previously to being eaten, seems to depend, partly on the more uniform and softer consistence imparted by the diffusion of its juices, and partly on the imperfect decomposition which it has begun to undergo. The latter change to some ex- tent prepares it for digestion, by rendering it more soluble. But any approach to abso- lute putrefaction reverses this advantage ;—at any rate, in the case of Man, whose natural judgment would probably in most instances lead him to reject putrid meat, as alike dis- gusting to the senses, hurtful to digestion, and dangerous to health. In the operation of roasting meat, the heat applied to the exterior of the mass soon con- verts its superficial portion into a dense, hard substance. This compact crust consists chiefly of albumen which has been coagulated by heat. It is of essential service, not only in mode- rating the heat afterwards applied through it to the deeper portions of the meat, but also in retaining its various liquid and volatile pro- ducts, which would otherwise be soon dissi- pated in the gaseous or vaporous form. The moderate heat which permeates the mass probably aids the various juices of the meat in diffusing themselves throughout its whole texture; increasing its uniformity of consist- ence, and dissolving much of its gelatinous tissues. Its albumen is always more or less coagulated by the heat; though, where much blood is present, the colour and fluidity which it sometimes retains, appear to indicate an imperfect character of this change.* A variety of empyreumatic substances, which are de- veloped chiefly in the more heated exterior of the mass, next add the savoury odour and deepened colour, so characteristic of this method of cooking. If the process be unduly protracted, it will obviously burn the harder outside shell, and render the coagulated and contracted mass within too dense, tough, and insoluble for easy digestion ; while, if con- ducted too rapidly, the same combustion of the outside is of course attended with the loss of all the advantages of cooking in the raw central portion. The changes induced by boiling meat, * This imperfect coagulation has been supposed to prove that the heat (154°) at which the blood coa- gulates, has not been attained. But the appearances in meat boiled at 212°, and the temperature of roast meat itself, render sjch a view very doubtful. partially resemble those which are caused by roasting it. For both of these processes are probably accompanied by a coagulation of albumen, a solution of osmazom, and a formation of gelatine in the mass itself. But they differ greatly from each other in many respects. From the lower tempera- ture applied in boiling, no empyreumatic sub- stances are developed; while the water which conveys the heat to the mass always extracts from it a certain proportion of its soluble constituents. This extraction may be to some extent diminished by suddenly plunging the meat into boiling water, so as to coagulate the albumen of its outer- most layers ; and conversely, the extractive process may be favoured, not only by in- creasing the surface of contact, but also by delaying the coagulation of the albumen, and prolonging the period of the solvent action. Hence, where it is chiefly the broth or watery solution of the meat which is intended to be used as food, the mass is preferably cut in very small pieces, and the temperature of the water raised very slowly to a degree of heat short of ebullition, and maintained there for a long time. i The various modes of salting and smoking meat are chiefly intended to protect it from decomposition ; hence they scarcely require much notice here. In the former process, however, the qualities of the meat appear seriously damaged *, quite apart from the mechanical disadvantages which both it and smoking often impart. Fat.—In a purely animal diet, the amount of this oleaginous constituent is of indispensable importance. For, with the exception of that minute quantity of inosit or muscular sugar which is proper to the sarcous substance, the fatty matters contained in the various tissues of the body are the only representatives of the two groups of the hydro-carbons and hy- drates of carbon, which this kind of food possesses. Hence the fat of such a diet has to replace, as it were, the starch of the vege- tables which usually enter into a mixed diet ; and thus constitutes the sole non-azotized or respiratory element of animal food. And even in what are often miscalled vege- table diets, a large quantity of this animal sub- stance is commonly added to the other ingre- dients of the food. At least there seems to be a strong impulse towards such an admix- ture in most of the vegetarian nations and races of modern times : —an impulse which is well exemplified in the butter or ghee so copiously added by the Hindoo to the rice that forms his staple food. The quantity of fatty matter which may thus be taken into the system can scarcely have any definite limit assigned to it. In the Arctic climates it appears to attain a very * The liability of persons fed on such meat to scurvy, can scarcely be exclusively referred to the privation of vegetables. Tor large numbers of people appear to subsist with impunity on fresh meat oidy (see p. 388.).