STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 354 this to occur, it is evident that such a remittent contraction would not destroy the claims of the absorptive act itself to be considered the chief force which propels the chyle. For in any case, the muscular apparatus would but limit and remove that distention of the lacteal which absorption had previously ef- fected. It would thus, as it were, merely re- gulate and transfer the mechanical force of the latter act; so as to modify it, either constantly, or at definite intervals of time. Some observers have attempted to verify the action of this delicate muscular apparatus dur- ing life. Gruby and Delafond first instituted such observations on a variety of domestic animals ; and they have since been repeated by Bruecke and Koelliker. All of these authorities agree in remarking an alternate shortening and elongation of the villus: — a change of form which is so rapid and marked, that there need be little hesitation in attri- buting it to a corresponding contraction and relaxation of these unstriped fibres. But the phenomena seen in the course of such vivisections cannot be safely accepted as those of the healthy animal in its natural state. * Such a caution is still more applicable to those contractions by which the villi share in that irregular movement of the intestine already described as a kind of rigor mortis. On exposing the villi of an animal soon after death, they gradually become shorter and Fig. 263. Villi contracted and shortened so as to offer circular or transverse wrinkles, From the small intestine of the doq shortly after death. Magnified 100 diame- ters ; and examined by reflected light. wider ; at the same time that their surface is generally throsvtt into circular transverse general this view of the action of unstriped fibre* I must confess myself very reluctant to accept it on its present evidence. * For,—to say nothing of the pain, the irritation, wrinkles or folds. A more minute examination shows that these folds consist of epithelium, which has separated from the basement mem- brane at the points that correspond to the greatest projection between the contiguous wrinkles {Jig. 264, 2.) A closer adhesion of Fig. 264. Similar villi as seen by transmitted light. The villus mar/ted 1, has been partially withdrawn by con- traction from its investing epithelium, which is thus left entire like the finger of a glove. a, epithelium of the villus; Agranular matrix or substance of the same. those columnar cells which occupy the free extremity of the villus, frequently causes this part to be defined, as a shallow funnel, by the neighbouring separated cells. While in other instances, a variable length of the whole villus withdraws from its cellular investment with such uniformity, as to leave the extremity of the latter empty, smooth, and uninjured (Jig. 264, 1.), like the finger of a glove. Frequently, how- ever, some of the epithelial cells are detached. It is obvious that all these appearances are referrible to a contraction of the un- striped fibres within the villus, withdrawing the substance of the latter from its epithelial in- vestment. The movements which often ac- company these changes resemble those above mentioned as beheld during life ; and consist of shortening or elongation, to which are some- times added lateral displacements. The date of their occurrence is limited to the period and the exposure, which are involved in such an opening into the intestine as is necessary to allow a proper inspection of the villi,—Gruby and Delafond remark, that their surface becomes wrinkled and pale at the time of their contraction. Such circum- stances imply so much disturbance of these soft structures, as to throw great suspicion upon any view which would interpret them as part of a normal process.