OVUM. 63 Baudrimont and St. Ange* are quite confir- matory of this view. They are as follows : — Sp. gr. of the External albumen - 104<1' „ Internal albumen - 1042"5 Whole yolk- - 1029-5 Upper part of yolk - 1027" „ Lower part of yolk - 103r5f The chalaza?, being of greater specific gra- vity than even the inner layer of white, always float lowest; but, being attached to the yolk near its poles, they hang down from these points. All those circumstances may be illus- trated very clearly by sections of eggs that have been boiled in different fixed positions, as on the side, on the large and small end ; in which it will be found that, while the chalazae exer- cise a certain control over the position of the yolk, that portion of its surface containing the cicatricula rises higher and expands more fully within the white than the opposite portion, while the chalazas gravitate towards the lower side. (See fig. 44.) Structure of the external parts of the egg.— The shell of the bird's egg is composed of a delicate basis of organised animal matter im- pregnated with the calcareous and earthy particles, the arrangement of which approaches to a crystalline appearance, but is probably of a different nature. This substance is porous, like concreted gypsum-plaster, and allows of evaporation and the mutual diffusion of gases through it in the same manner as that sub- stance ; while, by its strength and rigidity, it affords protection and support to the softer parts of the egg during incubation. The pores of the egg-shell may be easily stopped by any greasy or oily matter, or by melted wax or varnish ; and then all passage of moisture or air through the shell being pre- vented, the development of the embryo be- comes impossible. Eggs that have been oiled cannot, it is well known, be hatched ; but eggs may be kept for a considerable time — weeks, or even for months — by immersion in lime- water, which impedes the evaporation and the access of air, which might favour putrefaction, while the natural condition of the contents is thus preserved. The shell in most eggs is slightly dimpled externally, with small depressions visible to the naked eye ; but these are not the open- ings of the pores through which evaporation or exchange of gases takes place — these being much more minute and numerous—but merely the indication of depressions caused by the largely villous structure of that part of the oviduct (uterus) in which the calcareous shell is deposited. On removing the earthy matter by means of a dilute acid, the animal basis remains as a * Op. cit. t Dr. Wm. Aitken has, at my request, repeated these experiments, and has obtained results in ac- cordance with the above statement. He found the unboiled yolk to float indifferently in any part of a saline fluid of specific gravity 1035. By boiling, the specific gravity was reduced to 1031, and in both cases the side with the cicatricula floated upper- most. The upper half, containing the cicatricula, had a specific gravity of 1030 ; the lower half, 1032. slightly coherent, cellular, organised structure, the form of the small compartments in which corresponds with that of the calcareous par- ticles of the shell (see fig. 45. c). The in- Fig. 45. A Structure of the shell and shell-membrane in the Fowl's egg. A. Lining membrane of the shell; «, thick matted or felty portion; I/, thin shred of the torn margin, showing the peculiar fibrous tissue of which the various layers are composed. B. Outermost layer of the same, which is incor- porated with the shell; some of the angular cor- puscles of the shell lying upon the fibrous substance and firmly united with it. c. Small portion of the calcareous shell, which has been steeped in dilute hydrochloric acid, show- ing the remains of opaque calcareous substance in the centre, some portions of it exhibiting a granular aspect, and round the margins the animal basis or matrix from which the calcareous matter has been dissolved, presenting an irregular granular or almost amorphous aspect. Here and there clear oval cells are seen, as at a a. ternal surface is irregular and flocculent, and adheres very closely to a different kind of membrane which lines the shell. In those instances in which the shell of eggs is coloured, the pigment substance, of various hues, is generally deposited in cells, which are strewed uniformly or in patches over the external surface of the calcareous shell. In some other instances, however, the