240 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). and take their origin as follows. A hemisphe- rical projecting portion of one of the superfi- cial cells is cut off from the rest by a horizon- tal septum as in Anthoceros. This is divided by a single transverse septum. In the result- ing terminal cell a second septum is formed, inclined to the horizon at a small angle, which is followed by a third, inclined in the opposite direction. Both of the cells resulting from these divisions, and subjacent to the last-formed septa, are again divided by perpendicular septa coinciding with the axis of the papilliform rudiment. In one of the resulting cells there is then formed a perpendicular septum, which meets its predecessor at an angle of 45.° Hence results a club-shaped body, consisting of a four-sided central cell, filled with granular mucus, and enclosed by six others, having the following arrangement. Four of the form of segments of a hollow cylinder, which are in contact by their edges, surround the central cell on all sides. It is surmounted by a fifth, which is hemispherical (the terminal cell last formed). A sixth, the cell resulting from the first division by a horizontal septum, is cylin- drical, and serves as a pedicle on which the whole is supported. The central cell is con- verted by a successive division into a round group of dice-shaped cellules, in the interior of each of which a delicate lenticular vesicle is formed, which contains, rolled up in its in- terior, a spiral filament. The ripe antheridium bursts at its summit, and the escape of its contents is, as in the preceding cases, followed by the bursting of the vesicles, and the com- mencement of the active motions of the spiral Fig. 168. Antheridia of Pteris aquilina, 260 diam. On the right is seen an antheridium from which cells containing antherozoids are escaping; in the centre another, which has not yet burst; on the left a third, which has already discharged its contents. (Thuret). filaments (antherozoids.) In each filament the extremity which is directed forwards du- ring motion, is broader than any other part, while theopposite extremity (posterior) tapers oft'into a long filament. The anterior coil of the spiral bears on the surface furthest from its axis a number of delicate cilia. The motion of the antherozoid is of two kinds—of progression and of revolution round the axis of the spiral. 81. The archegonia. — At a period somewhat later than that at which the rudiments of the antheridia begin to appear, there commences on the inferior aspect of the prothallium,and in the immediate neighbourhood of the notch by which its anterior margin is bisected so as to form two lobes, an active development of new cells. The result of this is the formation of a cushion-like projection of the surface bor- dering the notch above mentioned, upon the anterior aspect of which the archegonia are formed. 82. Each archegonium takes its origin from a cell, which is distinguished from those sur- rounding it by the comparative abundance of granular mucus which it contains, and by the presence of a distinct central vesicular nucleus. This cell divides by a horizontal septum into a superior and an inferior portion. It is from the latter, which is hemispherical, that the papilla which forms the rudiment of the pro- jecting portion of the organs is formed. It consists, as in theHepaticse and Mosses, of four contiguous columns of cells, each of which is a half segment of a cylinder, the whole being surmounted by a hemispherical terminal cell. In the further development, varieties are often observed, even on the same prothallium. This is dependent on the mode in which the canal occupying the axis of the mature archegonium is produced. Most frequently a central column of cells is formed in exactly the same manner as an Anthoceros. The cells forming it are afterwards absorbed and dis- appear, leaving a four-sided canal. In the other case, the canal results simply from the separation of the four piles of cells along their common line of contact. This is the arrange- Fig. 169. Archegonivm of Asplenium septentrionale, 250 diam. a, germ-cell enclosed in its parent-cell; the mem- brane of the latter is still perfect, and separates its cavity from b, the axial canal. (Hofmeister.) ment which occurs constantly among the Equisetaceae, Lycopodiaceae, and Rhizocar- peae. In reference to the mode of origin of the germ-cell, there is some difference of opi- nion. According to Hofmeister,* the cell which contains it originates by the formation of a tangental septum in the lowest of the cells, constituting one of the four columns of • Loc. cit. p. 80.