587 OVARY—(Abnormal Anatomy). The impediments to such determination which recur again and again in these cases are the following. It is easily ascertained that the sac containing the foetus is external to the cavity of the uterus, and is in some way or other connected with some portion of the in- ternal generative organs ; the Fallopian tube, ovary, and broad ligament of one side being chiefly involved in the tumour, while the cor- responding parts of the other side may remain free. Dissection may serve to unravel these parts to a certain distance, beyond which nothing satisfactory can be determined, on ac- count of the alteration which the tissues have undergone both in form and arrangement ; the hypertrophy of some, and the wasting or blending together of others, rendering further research fruitless for the object in view. To these impediments,other and still greater difficulties are generally superadded. These arise from the death of the foetus, which often takes place several months or even years pre- vious to that of the mother. In the decom- position which follows, the harder parts of the contents of the sac fall asunder, and make their way by fistulous openings into surround- ing viscera, whose surfaces inflame and give rise to serous and fibrinous effusion, while in the few hours which succeed to the final de- struction, the parts decompose so rapidly that the post-mortem examination, however early it may be made, often reveals nothing but a semi-putrid mass perfectly unsuited to the de- termination of a difficult anatomical question. For this purpose the cases of the former class can alone suffice. Here the parts are small, and as yet comparatively unchanged, and admitting of dissection. The results of four .such examinations have just been given. The following additional examples, which are se- lected from the best recorded cases supposed to be ovarian, will suffice to exhibit the class of evidence upon which a belief in this species of gestation is demanded. Cruveilhier* has described and figured a case in which the entire skeleton of a four months' foetus f is seen hanging external to a sac, occupying the seat of the right ovar}', in which it is supposed to have been once con- tained. The sac said to be in the inner and lower part of the ovary is lined by a serous membrane. The two external thirds of the pouch were filled by a spongy areolar yellowish- white mass presenting all the characters of placental tissue. The outer half of the sur- face of the ovary was enveloped in a cartila- ginous shell. No attempt appears to have been made to trace the entire outline of the ovarian tunics, or to show the condition of the ovarian ligament, or of the Fallopian tube of the same side. The latter, indeed, is not mentioned, but from the representation of the parts it appears to be blended with the cyst, so that this is quite as likely to have been an example of tubal, or ovario-tubal, as of * Anat. Pathol, livr. xxxvi. pi. vi. f (Said in the description to be between one and a half and two months, at which time, however, no such complete skeleton is ever seen. ovarian gestation. The fact also that tlie cyst had apparently burst and permitted the escape of the foetus when it had attained the size which is seldom exceeded in tubal cases, lends additional probability to this view. Dr. Granville * has published a case, accom- panied by drawings, which he regards as an " undisputed case of purely ovarian fcetiferous ovum." The uterus is considerably enlarged, but empty. " The left ovarium presented a large swelling which contained within its own covering an ovum bearing a foetus with all its appendages, of about four months' growth. The ovarian covering burst in three places, and allowed the protrusion of the ovum, whereby the adhesion of the placenta to the inner sur- face of the ovarian envelope was torn asunder," causing death by hemorrhage. A blood-ves- sel, the size of a large crow-quill, which pene- trated the dense portion of the tumour, was ascertained to be a branch of the left sper- matic artery, and a smaller and much shorter vessel, arising from the tumour, was found to communicate with the spermatic veins. " The corresponding Fallopian tube was perfectly sound and loose, particularly at its fimbriated extremity, which had no connection whatever with the embryoferous tumour in its neigh- bourhood. Like its fellow tube, it was per- vious only from its loose extremity inwards to about half its length. " A placental mass with distinct cotyledonous vesicles connects the child with the inner covering of the ovarian cyst. The secreting or transparent involucra are quite distinct. The cortex ovi is almost wholly absorbed, as it ought to be at such an advanced period. The foetus is perfect." In the expla- nation of the plates mention is made of" frag- ments of the corpus luteum which surrounded the ovum, and was broken to pieces by the enlargement of the foetus. Some of these fragments adhere to the inside of the ovarian coats, others are among the placental cotyle- dons." No account is given of the ligament of the ovary, nor of such a dissection of the parts having been undertaken as would satis- factorily prove that the sac containing the foetus was not a cyst attached to the ovary. But the evidence in favour of ovarian gesta- tion consists chiefly in this, that the fcetus- bearing cyst occupied the region of the ovary, and was independent of the Fallopian tube. Nevertheless this case constitutes the nearest approach to the form of gestation which it claims to represent with which I am acquainted. In the same work (Graphic Illustrations-)-) is contained a description and representation of a second case termed " ovum fcecundum in reccptaculo ovarico." " Through a transversal aperture in the left ovarium are seen the re- mains of some membranes, three in number at the least, lining a cavity which measures transversely one inch and a quarter, and about an inch vertically." The preparation belonged to Sir C. M. Clarke, who assured Dr. Gran- ville " that a small embryo hung pendulous * Phil. Trans. 1820, and Graphic Illustrations of Abortion, Plates X, A, and 15. f P. 27. pi. viii.