RESPIRATION. 278 ing element. In the bird's lung there exist, therefore, no air-cells. It is argued by Mr. Rainey that the ultimate vessels in the bird's lung, as in the mammal's, are literally naked ; that is, that they have no other covering whatever than their own proper coats, of which at irregular intervals the cell-nuclei may be distinguished. In other words, that the epithelium, so percep- tible on the bronchi, is not under any shape continued beyond the termination of these tubes. To this view it has already been objected that it is at variance with all ana- logy ; the branchial and pulmonary vessels of fishes and amphibia are provided, as will be subsequently shown, with pavement epithe- lium, the scales of which may be seen to be continuous with those of the ciliated divi- sion of the membrane; that a law of ana- tomical structure applying to the respiratory organs of the lower vertebrata must also govern that of the higher. It is impos- sible to demonstrate on the injected vessels of the bird's lung the presence of a separate investment of epithelium. The vessels do appear to be literally naked. But in the recent structure, in their sections through the bronchi and intercellular passages, it is perfectly easy to the practised eye to trace the epithelium of the bronchi over the larger vessels amid the intercellular passages just before the former break into the mass of the ultimate capillaries. The continuity of the pavement epithelium of the larger vessels with the cylindrical of the bronchi may be un- doubtedly traced by the eye. Now, what is true of the larger vessels is very probably true also of the smaller. Although, therefore, it cannot be directly proved at present that in the bird's lung the ultimate capillaries, as in the branchiae of fishes and the saccular lungs of amphibia, are invested by a separate epithelium, the conclusion first stated appears at present to be most reasonable and most in accordance with analogy. In these examina- tions it is important not to mistake the out- line of the red corpuscles in the vessels for that of the epithelial scales on their parietes. According to the measurements of Mr. Rainey the areolae between the capillary vessels, which in the bird's lung are the real air- spaces, — equivalent to air-cells, —are gene- rally smaller in diameter than the capillaries themselves, and average in diameter about cTeVo °f an inch. An epithelial cell taken from the lining membrane of the bronchi in a pigeon measures in length ¥J^y,and in breadth ■wiao- ^ ls therefore certain that, as Mr. Rainey contends, epithelium of such magni- tude could not, by physical possibility, line spaces the diameter of which did not exceed TeVo °f an inch-. The error here committed consists in overlooking the difference between the dimensions of the cylinder epithelium which lines the bronchi, and those of the won- drously attenuated hyaline epithelium which belongs to the true respiratory, capillary, areas of the lungs of birds, reptiles, and mammalia. A similar distinction between the epithelium which lines the caecal exti Imities of glandular ducts, and that covering the merely convective or excretory stages of the same ducts, obtains in nearly all the simple and compound glands of the animal body. How singular if a prin- ciple so wide-spread should be violated in the instance of the lungs ! Respiratory Organs of Reptiles. Temporary branchia? of Amphibia. — In the life of all batrachian reptiles, the period which immediately follows the emergence of the young from the ovum is remarkable for the existence of organs capacitating the animal to live in water. In different genera these or- gans vary in duration of existence. The larvae of the frog retain the external branchiae only for a few days, after which these organs be- come internal. Those of the toad remain in the egg state for a longer, and in that of the fish condition for a shorter, time than those of the frog. The tadpoles of the terrestrial sala- manders of this country retain the external gills only for a brief interval, early assuming an exclusively atmospheric life. Those of the aquatic species, exemplified in the familiar tritons of our pools, carry the external bran- chiae for a much longer period, affording thus, an opportunity for the study of the structure Fig. 227. Head and branchial appendages of the larva of the Water-newt (Triton aquaticus vulgaris). (Orig.) The branchiae are enveloped in a prolongation of the general cuticle of the body. The cells of the epithelium covering the gills are, however, reduced to a state of great attenuation, compressed into scales, and polygonal iti outline. The nearer the period of transition from the larva to the perfect reptilian type, the more intimate the resemblance between the epithelium of the branchia; and that of the general body. For some time before their obli- teration, the branchia? cease to be distinguished by ciliary vibration. This results from the change which gradually occurs in the anatomical characters of the component cells. The branchia! in the larva of the newt consist of a trilobed extension of the cuticle at either side of the head, the two posterior lobes, which, in figure, resemble compressed finger- like processes, presenting on either side secondary projections, by which the respiratory area is mul- tiplied. In relation to the size of the bod3r, they are larger than those of the larva of the frog. and function of these appendages. The ge- nera syren, proteus, and menobranchus are