100 PANCREAS. served for the transit of the chyle from the intestine to the liver and spleen. Very early investigation, however, showed the fallacy of this view, as it proved that the fluid of which the pancreatic duct was the channel always passed to the intestine and never from it. The fourth opinion is ascribed to Ves- lingius, who says, in speaking of the pan- creas*, Usus hujus canalis obscurus non est, nam cum acrem quendam fellique non dissi- milem succum exhibeat, palam est excrementum tale, per coctionem ulteriorem a chijlo separatum, all'ici intra hunc atque in duodenum intcstinum expurgari. This view, which is simply re- futed by saying that the secretion obtained from the pancreas does not in any way resemble bile, that it is not " felli non dissimilem," was supported by Aseliius. Riolanus, and others. De Graaf accounts for it by supposing that the tube introduced into the duct for the purpose of obtaining the secretion became covered with the bile accumulated about the common orifice of the two ducts, which it might very well do, either on being inserted or withdrawn, and that this, becoming mixed with the pancreatic secretion which it had withdrawn, gave rise to the erroneous opinion that that secretion had a resemblance to bile. The fourth opinion, that the pancreatic duct •was the excretory canal of the spleen, which was maintained by Bartholini, is refuted by the simplest anatomical considerations, and was further disproved by De Graaf, who, to show its fallacy, extirpated the spleen of a dog, and, two months after the extirpation, obtained the pancreatic secretion unaltered. The fifth view was based on similar supposed anatomical relations between the pancreatic duct and spleen. It is assigned to Lindanus, and was refuted by the same considerations as the last. The theory that the pancreas carried off the excretion of the nerves was based on the old view that the nerves distilled the animal humours and spirits. All these views are perhaps rather amusing than in- teresting, and are among the curiosities of science. They show us how much our me- dical forefathers were disposed to take for granted, and how disposed they were to run alone when the shell was still on their heads. The true doctrine that the pancreas furnished an important secretion of its own was first advocated by Francois dele Boe Sylvius f, who first insisted on its acidity, and who at- tached great importance to its pathological conditions. Indeed, he made its derangements the cause of nearly all the ills that flesh is heir to ; in the same way that Spigelius did his lobe of the liver. It was in consequence of tlje interest which the lessons of Silvius excited that De Graaf, his pupii, undertook his admirable researches De Succo Pancrca- i co, and succeeded, in 1662, in first obtaining the pancreatic secretion from the living ani- mal : the most important point was thus ascertained, and the materials supplied for further investigation. * Syntagma Anatom. cap. 4. f Thes. 37., De Usu Lienis et glandular. With the view of obtaining the fluid, De Graaf first put a ligature round the duo- denum, including part of the pancreas, but failed in obtaining the desired result, in con- sequence, as he imagined, of the ligature about the pancreas cutting off the supply of blood from which the secretion was ob- tained, and so putting a stop to it. He then put a ligature round the duct at the point of its immergence into the intestine, but again failed in getting any secretion, which he attributes to its escape by the small ducts wounded in exposing the larger one. His third attempt consisted in binding together two pieces of wood, compressing the intestine over the point of entrance of the duct so as to close it. This time he was successful: the duct was distended with a clear and limpid fluid, but he could not obtain it in sufficient quantity to subject it to any ex- amination. With the view of obtaining some notable quantity, he instituted a fourth ex- periment by making a longitudinal incision into the duodenum, and inserting into the orifice of the duct the narrow mouth of a little flask; but again he failed, from the air included in the flask barring the entrance of the secretion. To obviate this, in his fifth experiment he perforated the upper part of the flafk with a little hole, and this time he succeeded, in the space of five hours, in get- ting the flask more than half full. But the secretion obtained was bitter in taste and yellow in colour, and, attributing this to a certain admixture of bile from the uncleansed intestine, he improvised the following in- genious apparatus to obviate that source of fallacy. He took a long-necked flask, with a hole bored in the upper part of its belly, and around the neck of this flask he fastened a cord furnished with rings, by means of which it could be firmly fastened to the intestine; a quill of a wild duck, cut so as to form a little slender tube, was then fixed into the neck of the flask, and made to fit tightly by pasted paper being rolled round it. Into the smaller extremity of this quill tube was fixed a plug made of some soft wood fitting sufficiently tight not to be forced in by the pressure of the soft parts it would come in contact with, but sufficiently easy to be withdrawn by a string fastened to it, and which passed through the quill into the flask and out of the flask through the little hole. The object of the plug was to prevent the in- testinal contents from blocking up the quill and so obstructing the flow of the pancreatic secre- tion. Then (" sublato ejulatu vicinis molesto, duarum laryngis cartilaginum particulas ex- scindendo," as he says of the poor dog with great simplicity and coolness) the abdominal cavity is laid open, an incision is made into the duodenum, the quill, closed with the little plug, inserted, the flask sewed to the intestine by means of the rings, the parietes sewed up so as to allow the protrusion of the flask, the plug withdrawn by the string, and the flask covered so as to prevent the entry of any foreign matter through the little hole. To