G7 OVUM. f 2 Although it can scarcely be doubted that the chalazae are produced during the de- scent of the egg, while the albumen is being deposited, it is worthy of remark, that the twisted structure of these bodies is usually not to be seen till after the shell has begun to be formed*; but it is very probable that Fig. 48. Position of the egg in the oviduct as it descends. A portion of the oviduct near the lower end opened, taken from a fowl killed three and a half hours after the last egg was laid. The greater part of the albumen has been deposited, and the egg has assumed its peculiar form, the small end of the oval advancing first; the cioatricula placed on the side of the yolk. this may depend on their not having pre- viously acquired sufficient opacity or conden- sation to render their tortuous structure ob- vious. Indeed, Von Baer has observed them to make their appearance by increase of their opacity from exposure while under actual observation. It has been ascertained by experimental observation that the membrane of the shell is formed in the narrow part of the oviduct, termed the isthmus, which intervenes between the albumiriiferous part and the uterine dila- tation. It consists, no doubt, in the fibrillation of consolidated albumen, or some analogous substance, which must take place with great within the white, and that it is only towards the end of the period of its passing through the oviduct that a liquefaction of the albumen, which then occurs, permits this rotation: but I think it doubtful that the adhesion between the surface of the yolk and deeper albumen is so great as to prevent the degree of rotation above referred to. * Von Baer, Uber Entwick. p. 31. rapidity ; but we are not yet sufficiently ac- quainted with the nature of this process, for the phenomena of the solidification and fi- brillar organisation have not been minutely ex- amined, nor has any difference yet been ascer- tained between the substance secreted in the isthmus, which undergoes the fibrillation with- out calcification, and that of the uterine dila- tation, which seems to have no such tendency, remaining amorphous or cellular, and having very soon a deposit of calcareous matter formed in it. By the time the egg arrives in the uterus, it has acquired its peculiar oval form, the small end pointing downwards in the oviduct. The cause of this form, which is already ap- parent in the white previous to the formation of the shell, is somewhat obscure, on account of the complexity of the mechanical condi- tions influencing the egg in its passage. It may probably depend on the circumstance that the soft mass dilates the oviduct more gradually as it insinuates itself between its coats, in being propelled onwards, while the part of the duct through which it has passed contracts more abruptly and firmly in conse- quence of the stimulus of distension to which it has been subjected. But the variety of forms which occurs in the eggs of different birds and other animals must not be for- gotten, as indicating that the peculiarity of a lesser and greater end is not essential, and may depend on very slight or transient cir- cumstances. Perhaps, the greater density of the albumen, secreted over the end which advances first in the oviduct, may also have some effect in giving this part the smaller volume. It certainly seems remarkable that the ends of the egg should be moulded into so smooth and rounded a surface as that of the membrane and shell by a tubular organ. In some rare instances, however, I have ob- served irregularities of form at the extremities of the egg, indicating an imperfect contraction of the oviduct during the passage. The egg remains a much longer time (from twelve to eighteen or more hours) in the uterine dilatation of the oviduct during the formation of the shell. The mucous mem- brane of this part differs in structure consi- derably from the rest: it presents over its whole extent large villous-like processes, or short folds, of a flattened form, containing small follicular glands, from which the substance of the shell is secreted. As soon as the egg enters this part of the passage a thickish white fluid is poured out from the membrane, which speedily coagulates on the surface of the membrane lining the shell, and very soon we can perceive with the microscope small heaps or united groups of particles somewhat of a crystalline appearance, but in reality cal- cified blastema studded over the whole surface. These are the calcareous particles of the shell, which are deposited in a delicate matrix of animal tissue of a large cellular structure. The deposit goes on rapidly increasing: at first the shell is soft, it remains friable for ;i considerable time, and, subsequently, it