538 RUMINANTIA. ingesta are being macerated by the moisture secreted from the walls of the rumen (and probably also from the water taken in by the mouth, some of which may have entered the cavity), portions of the indigestible mass are transmitted into the second stomach for fur- ther maceration, and from thence into the demi-canal, to be moulded into the form of pellets, and returned to the mouth by a kind of reversed peristaltic action. The softened bolus, thus brought back into the mouth, is destined to receive a thorough and deliberate remastication, and it is somewhat singular that this part of the process (called " chew- ing the cud") varies in different species. Professor Owen has the merit of showing that in the Cameline ruminants the bolus is triturated alternately from side to side, whereas, the action of the teeth in the horned Ruminantia, including the Giraffe, is always in one direction—it may be from right to left or left to right — occasioned by the rotatory motion of the jaw. The necessary reduction of the aliment having been accom- plished, it is again transferred to the stomach in a pulpy semifluid condition ; but this time, instead of entering the first or second cavities, it passes directly along the (now closed) oesophageal groove into the manyplies. Here, the superfluous moisture is supposed to be absorbed before it is ultimately transmitted into the fourth stomach, in which organ the true digestive act remains to be fulfilled. The first, second, and third stomachs are incompletely developed in the newly born individual, where no chewing of the cud taking place, the food passing directly into the fourth ; in the Calf a peculiar organic acid is secreted by the lining membrane of the reed, which possesses the power of converting the albumen of milk into curd and whey: this, in the prepared condition, is termed rennet. Concretions are frequently found in the paunch, and occasionally in the reticulum, composed of various substances, such as hair, vegetable tissues, or calcareous matter, having a more or less rounded figure. The balls, so common in the Calf and Cow, result from the licking of their own hides or that of others,—the hair thus collected being rolled into the characteristic shapes by a kind of felting process going on in the stomach ; after a time they become coated with a dark earthy deposit of great hardness, the surface acquiring a considerable polish. Sometimes they have the form of compressed spheres, but are more usually barrel-shaped ; their size is seldom larger than a cricket-ball. There is a specimen from the Cow in the Edinburgh University Anatomical Museum (presented by Dr. Mc Nab, of Jamaica), measuring eleven inches in length and twenty- nine in circumference. The fibrous concre- tions in the Camel consist of numerous small pedunculated pellets, strung together in bo- tryoidal masses ; at least, such is the form presented by those we have seen from a Dromedary dissected by Professor Goodsir. The formation of the so-called Bezoar stones in the stomach of the Chamois takes place in Intestines of the Sliecp.