282 RESPIRATION. vessels and epithelium This organ, however, is further composed of a number of pecu- Fig. 230. Plan of blood-vessels in the gland (gerogenicf) o f the air-bladder of the Cod-fish, showing the simp!// looped character of the vessels. {Original.) a, a, indicate a stratum of fibres, vessels, and epithelium lining the internal surface of the gland ill common with the whole interior, of the air- bladder. liarly arranged, elongated corpuscles, which descend in two rows from each vascular branch, and are bound together by a loose cellular tissue : the corpuscles are beset with fine villiform processes. Thus it should be noticed that the veins as well as the arteries concur to form the vaso-ganglions. The vaso-ganglions of the eel and conger are placed at the sides of the opening of the air-duct, are "bipolar," and consist of arteries and veins ; their efferent trunks do not ramify Fig. 231. Plan of the blood-vessels in the glands of the air- bladder of the Eel. They consist of straight pa- rallel ultimate vessels of uniform diameters, of arteries, and veins, carrying streams of blood moving in opposite directions. {Original.) in the immediate margin of the vaso-ganglion from which they issue, as in the vaso-gan- glion of the cod, turbot, acerine, and perch, but run for some distance before they again ramify to form the common capillary system of the lining membrane of the air-bladder. In the parasitic and suctorial dermopteri and pleuronectidae and ray-tribe the air-bladder does not exist. The ductus pneumaticus exists in the eel, sturgeon, amia, erythrinus, lepidostcus, lepido- siren, polypterus. It is remarkable that in these fishes the vaso-ganglion is not deve- loped. " Under all diversities of structure and function the homology of the swim- bladder with the lungs is clearly traceable ; and finally, in those orders of fishes which lead more directly to the reptilia — as, for example, the salamandroid gaiwidei and pro- top>teri—those further modifications are super- induced by which it becomes also analogous in function to the lungs of the air-breathing amphibia." * The Lungs in the Batrachia.—In the ichthioid amphibia there exist two long membranous pul- monary sacs, extending, like the air-bladder of fishes, far backwards into the cavity of the abdomen, above the other viscera, but freely moveable in the cavity of the peritoneum, and invested with this serous membrane. They consist of smooth plane-walled sacs, and communicate with the pharynx by means of their membranous ducti pneumatici or tra- cheae. This simple condition of the lungs occurs in a permanent form in the salaman- drida^. Each sac is provided with a pulmo- nary artery, which runs in a straight course along the outer side of the organ. From this vessel, branches proceed with great regu- larity at right angles and at definite distances. From the midpoint of the space between the arterioles, a venule arises to run round the opposite semi-cylinder of the organ into the chief trunk of the pulmonary vein. In con- sequence of this regularity in the distribution of the arteries and veins, the true capillary interspaces present a regularity of area. It follows from this arrangement that each drop of blood, in its passage from the extreme artery to the extreme vein, undergoes in every part of the lung the same quantum of aeration. It is commonly supposed, by com- parative anatomists, that the simple lungs of the salamandridce present a perfectly smooth and uniformly plane surface internally, such that every spot participates with equal acti- vity in the office of aerating the blood. This, however, is not the case. The septa which, in the case of the frogs and toads, divide the internal superficies into cells, exist in a rudi- mentary state, but unquestionably in the lung of the newt. They are indicated by inter- secting lines of vibratile cilia. They coincide chiefly with the principal branches of blood- vessels. Bundles of elastic fibres also run parallel with the vascular trunks, which confer upon these delicate organs an uncommon amount of elasticity. To the next point in the minute structure of the lungs especial * R. Owen, Cat. of Phys. Ser. of Coll. Sur. 4to, 1832-40; Mtiller, J., Vergleichende Anatomie der Myxinoiden : Abhand. Akad der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1834; Agassiz, Hist, des Poissons Fos- siles, 1833-45; Cuvier et Valenciennes, Histoirc Nat. des Poissons, 1845 ; De Blainville, Annales des Sciences Naturelles, 1837; Bojanus, Versuch einer Deutung der Knochen in Kopfe der Fische, in Oken's Isis, 1818; Yarrell on British Fishes, 8vo, 183G; Paley, Nat. Theol. 8vo, ed. 10. 1805: Bre • scher, Ke'cherches sur l'Organe de 1'Ouie des Pois sons, 1838; Monro, The Structure and Physiology of Fishes explained and compared with those of Man and other Animals, fol. 1785 ; Scarpa, DeAu- ditu et Olfactu, 1789; Hunter, Obs. on the Ani- mal Economy, Palmer's ed., 1837; Ratke, in Die Physiologie von Burdach, 8vo, i. 1826; Allen Thompson, Jameson's Journal, 1830-31; Duveinoy, Sur le Me'canisme de la Respiration dans les Pois- sons, in Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1839: De la Roche. Obs. sur la Vessie Aerienne des Poissons, Ami. du Mu- seum, t. xiv. 1809. j