OVUM. t'127] In Hydractinia rosea, Van Beneden ascer- tained the existence of the germinal vesicle and nucleus within the ova while stdl con- tained in the capsule; and it appears that in all true ova of the Hydrozoa the vitellus, which consists of finely granular substance, undergoes a complete segmentation in the same manner as in other animals in which it presents a similar structure. In the common fresh-water polype, in which ovigerous capsules, or ova, and spermatic cap- sules were found coexistent on the same in- dividuals, I observed sometimes the spermatic capsules brought into contact with the surface of the ova by the bending round of the body of the polype at the time when the spermatozoa were being discharged. This took place pre- vious to the formation of the firm external covering ; but I could not determine whether fecundation had thus taken place or whether any spermatozoa had penetrated the ovum. In some of the Hydrozoa, as in the com-> mon green polype, the ova are single, while in others as in Hydra fusca, figured by R. Wag- ner*, there are several ova enclosed in the same capsule. It is remarkable that, while in some Hy- drozoa the ova are developed from animals which retain the polype form in their com- plete sexual condition, or from modified po- lype heads, in others, as in Coryne, Friti!- laria and Campanularia dichotoma, it is only from a medusoid progeny separated from the polype stock that the true fecundated ova are produced. In Anthozoa, the most of which, as Actinia, Alcyonium, Veretillum, Gorgonia, and the Corallines are hermaphrodite, the ova consist of finely granular yolk, germinal vesicle and macula, and undergo complete segmentation. The Bryozoa may be most appropriately considered in this place, as they present con- siderable analogy to the compound polypes in the mode of their reproduction. They are of separate sexes, and appear to be propagated in three modes, viz.: 1st, by gemmation; 2nd, by true fecundated ova ; and 3rdly, by bodies which have long been regarded as ova, but which according to Professor Allman's recent researches may rather be considered as peculiar encysted gemmules, and may pro- bably be analogous to the so-called winter ova of Daphnia and Lacinularia to which reference has previously been made. The development of the true ova of Pedi- cellina observed by Van Beneden has been already described.f In this instance the ova are arranged in clusters surrounded by a transparent capsule. In each ovum the finely granular yolk undergoes a complete segmen- tation. The germinal vesicle possesses a sin- gle macula. According to Van Beneden and Dumor- tierX, the ova of Alcyonella are developed in ovarian sacs connected with the inner end of * Ieones Zootomicse. t See p. 23. and fig. 19. of this article. % Mem. sur les Polypes d'Eau douce. Acad, de Belgique, 1842. the stomach. They are described as com- mencing by the formation of germinal vesicles with nuclei or maculae, and as having subse- quently the granular yolk-substance deposited round each vesicle ; and these authors de- scribe the same ova as acquiring at a later period the peculiar horny or cellular covering which forms the two-valved shell membrane long known as belonging to the winter ova of this and several other genera of fresh- water polypes. But with regard to the na- ture of these bodies and the mode of their formation some doubts may arise in conse- quence of the researches of Professor Allman. The bodies in question are at first nearly spherical and of a light or milky colour ; they become later of an oval form, and flattened or discoid, and the cells of the shell-covering are then developed, and acquire the deep brown colour which very generally prevails among these bodies when arrived at maturity, and which makes it impossible to trace farther the changes within the ovum. These cells are developed to a greater extent round the widest margin of the disc, so as to form there a thick ring or border, which is afterwards cleft in two when the valves of the shell open to allow the escape of the embryo. The same authors have described the pro- pagation of the Paludicella to take place in summer by means of buds, and in winter by Fig. 92*. Formation and Structure of the ova of Lophopus Baheri, (From Van Beneden.} These represent, according to Professor Allman, not the true ova, but the Winter ova or " Stato- blasts." a. The ovum previous to the deposit of the cellular covering and marginal plate, b. This co- vering now in progress of formation, c. and d. pro- file and front view of the ovum, when completed, showing the structure of the cellular border which is afterwards cleft in two at the edge, when the em bryo is about to escape. e. An ovum at an earlier stage showing the ovi- capsule in part removed from one side of the ovum and its cellular covering.