315 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. tube. We should thus get two currents, which, at least in situation, would be identical with those produced by the peristalsis of the succeeding interval. Action of the pylorus.—The structure of the pylorus (irv\upbi;, portce custos) has already been described. As regards its action, it is obviously the sphincter of the stomach. As such, it has been supposed to possess a kind of selective power ; by virtue of which it contracts against the food in the earlier stage of digestion, but subsequently relaxes to per- mit the passage of the chyme. This view, however, appears to me very doubtful. In the empty stomach, the pylorus is generally open, and readily* allows of the passage of bile from the duodenum. In the early stage of digestion, it is firmly shut; and retains the contents of the organ against gravity, or even against such a manual pressure as readily expels them from the cardia. But just as in the second stage of gastric digestion, it is plain that the valve does not undergo any sudden or great relaxation,—for such would allow the passage of a large quan- tity of the moving and semifluid food, much of which would be still crude and undigested — so the very gradual diminution-f, noticed by Beaumont in the early stage, renders his in- ference,—that, even from the first, chyme is constantly passing into the duodenum— very probably correct. J Supposing this to be the case, it is evident that the action of the pylorus must be very similar at both these periods. And after numerous and careful observations on this part of the Dog's stomach towards the close of its digestive act, I have never yet been able to substantiate any de- finite relaxation of the pylorus; or any but an inconsiderable oozing of chyme at the time of that active peristalsis which has been described above. Hence I prefer to regard the passage of the chyme as produced by that great increase of force which the contractions of the pyloric sac acquire at this period;—a cause which appears so sufficient, that it seems scarcely justifiable to assume any additional one. The supposed relaxation of the pylorus seems also contradicted by a remark of Beaumont's, that, even at the end of the process, when the passage of chyme is greatly accelerated, the above contractions still continue. In short, instead of a relaxed pylorus, through which a moderate peristalsis urges a selected portion of the food, it appears * Bile is almost always found in the empty stomach of Dogs and Cats. (Compare Beaumont, pp. 86, 87.) f The diminution due to absorption would pro- bably be at first compensated by the addition of gastric j uice. X According to Magendie (Op. cit. p. 91.), the py- lorus of the Horse is always found open, and is pro- bably relaxed during life. It is only thus one can explain the well-known fact, that the quantity of food taken by this animal at an ordinary meal has a bulk which amounts to four or five times that of its distended stomach. Indeed, water has been found in its caecum six minutes after being swal- lowed. (Coleman in Abernethy's Physiological Lectures, p. 180.) the state of this aperture during the close of gastric digestion is that of a contracted valve, through which the tolerably uniform chyme is being strained in small quantities, at fre- quent intervals, by a comparatively violent muscular contraction.* Hence the separa- tion of the chyme from the other contents of the stomach seems to be effected by a pro- cess somewhat analogous to a coarse filtra- tion, aided by pressure. How little the pylorus could reject the " crude" portions of the tolerably homo- geneous chyme, to transmit its more fluid or dissolved constituents, is shown by the facility with which indigestible substances of various shapes and sizes pass into the duodenum. Of these we can only say, that it is probable they are generally carried through the con- stricted pyloric sac and valve by a very forcible peristalsis.-)- The weight and solidity of many such masses allow them to remain some time in the cardiac pouch, perhaps lodged behind the transverse constriction which separates this from the pyloric sac. Both of these circum- stances often defer their passage to the later stage of digestion. Smaller substances, how- ever, sometimes traverse the whole canal in so short J a space of time, that it is diffi- cult to avoid believing that they leave the stomach very shortly after entering it. But while we may thus regard the pyloric valve as exerting but one and the same action during the whole period of gastric digestion, we shall find it difficult to substitute any other theory of its action for that local appreciation or selection which we have attempted to refute. Its contraction is ac- companied by that of the whole muscular coat of the stomach ; of which the pylorus forms, apparently, but a terminal thickening. And of the only two other facts which are co- temporaneous in their occurrence and dura- tion— viz., the presence of food, and of gastric juice — the first affords little explanation; while the second is more likely to be another effect of the cause, whatever it may be, which excites that co-ordinate muscular action in which the pylorus appears to play an im- portant, though simple, part. It is interesting to observe how little the action of the pylorus is connected with any stimulus other than a gastric one. The flow of bile into the fasting stomach may perhaps be regarded as a passage, such as this janitor might well concede to a fluid which is not only harmless, but recrementitious. But in • It is scarcely necessary to add, that the mecha- nism of such an act does not require that the cardia should be, however momentarily, the stronger valve of the two. For the force of an obliterating peri- stalsis would be at first almost spent upon the pylorus towards which it sets. While that of a weaker con- traction would be chiefly expended upon the py- loric sac. And the residual force of both would chiefly dilate the yielding and quiescent large ex- tremity. f A peristalsis, the energy of which it is pro- bable that they themselves increase. | Thus the author has known peas traverse the canal in two hours.