RUMINANTIA. 532 to give full effect to such an arrangement, many species are provided with a special glandular sebaceous follicle between the toes, whose office is to furnish a lubricating secre- tion, calculated to prevent injury from friction of the digits one against the other. Fig. 354. represents the position and dimensions of this organ in the Sheep. According to Sir Charles Bell there is yet another intention in this cloven form, viz., that of aiding the voluntary eleva- tion of the foot when it has sunk deeply into soft ground. " We may observe," he says, " how much more easily the Cow withdraws her foot from the yielding margin of a river, than the Horse. The round and concave form of the Horse's foot is attended with a vacuum or suction as it is withdrawn ; while the split and conical shaped hoof expands in sinking, and is easily extricated."* Digestive System. — Buccal Cavity. — The lining mucous membrane of the oral cavity is very rough, being covered throughout with very prominent papillae. At the roof of the mouth they have a flattened form, and are arranged in parallel rows, producing a series of ridges or bars, the margins of which are den- ticulated and directed backward. They are very conspicuous in the Camel, and in the Giraffe we have counted from fourteen to eighteen rows; the papilla; of the anterior ridges, however, lose much of their linear arrangement. Respecting the use of this pe- culiar grooved structure, Mr. John Zaglas appears to have offered a satisfactory solu- ion. Speaking of the action of the tongue during deglutition, he says, " I may here hazard the opinion, that the transverse rugae on the palate of Man and the lower animals are intended, to a certain extent, for the sup- port of the tongue in the act of elongating itself backwards. The varieties which they exhibit coincide with what would appear to be required in the relations of the tongue and oral cavity. In Man, in whom the alveolar process is perpendicular, they are slightly de- veloped, and situated far forward. In the lower animals, in which the alveolar process is small or oblique, the rugae are situated farther back, and are more fully marked, par- ticularly in those which swallow bulky and comparatively rough morsels, as in the ru- minants and solipeds."f The oral roof of the Giraffe is marked by an extensive deposit of leaden-coloured pigment, stretching from the alveolar margin to the centre of the palate ; small isolated patches also occurring still far- ther back. A callous thickening of the gum occupies the place and supersedes the function of the non-developed intermaxillary incisives. The buccal papillae attain their greatest size in the region of the cheek opposite the true mo- lars. In this position they take on the cha- racter of horny spines, very like those seen in the oesophagus of the Turtle. They have either the form of simple elongated cones, or are aggregated together, and blended so as to * Bridge-water Treatise, p. 92. •j- Goodsir's Amials of Anatomy and Physiology, Part II. p. 122. present two, three, or even four points. This complicated disposition is well shown in the ac- companying figure (fig. 355.)from the Camel; in Fig. 355. Buccal papillm of the Bactrian Camel. (From F. Miiller and Wedl.) the Giraffe thelongest spines, which are fully half an inch in length, give off secondary processes, thus resembling very closely the fungiform pa- pillae of the human tongue after the epithelial layer has been removed. Professor Owen is of opinion that the principal function of these organs consists in adjusting the bolus during mastication. Teeth. — Consistent with the compound character of the ruminant stomach, a parallel complexity obtains in the structure of the teeth, at least, in those concerned in tritu- rating the food. In those families which have incisives in the lower jaw only, these exhibit simple trenchant crowns, which slant horizontally forward ; and being opposed only by the hardened gum of the upper jaw, the function they perform during the act of feeding is rather that of breaking or tearing, than cutting. The action is accompanied by a swinging movement of the head forward, the powerful muscles in- serted into the occiput along with the elastic ligamentum nuchae, rendering such a motion almost effortless. In CEgosceridae, Bovidae, and Cervidae generally, where the incisors form a broad line at the expanded tip of the lower jaw, the extent of their grasp is considerably increased by the prominent position of the canines on either side. These latter partake of the function ascribed to the former, and their aspect is so similar that many ana- tomists have been led into error respecting their true nature. In the Giraffe the canines present divided crowns, and are not placed so far in front; nevertheless, they are closely applied to the outer incisors, the whole series together forming a semicircle. The characters of the molar teeth chiefly demand consideration in this place. These, though presenting every variety and modifi- cation of contour in the different families, manifest at the same time a certain uniformity of type throughout the entire order. A sin-