472 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The experiments of Walther on the frog would also indicate that the circulation is more or less influenced by the sympathetic* When the fibres which are sent by the sym- pathetic to the nerves of the lumbar plexus were divided, he found, on examining the circulation in the web of the foot, that, al- though at first undisturbed, it very soon afterwards increased in rapidity. The ca- pillaries appeared to be dilated, and contained fewer blood corpuscles than corresponded to their calibre; the increase in their diameter equalled from one sixth to one eighth of the calibre of the vessel. After a time the ra- pidity of the circulation again diminished, and in some parts it became stagnant. Bidder f, on the other hand, could not in his experiments satisfy himself that any dila- tation of the capillary vessels took place. Walther, however, has performed the ex- periment so frequently, and so uniformly with the same result, that he regards the dilatation of the capillary vessels as con- stant. There are, moreover, certain experiments made by Valentin which show that the branches of the sympathetic which are dis- tributed to the walls of the blood-vessels, exercise an influence over their contractions. Thus, when stimulus was applied to the tho- racic portion of the sympathetic in the horse, he observed that the thoracic aorta and tho- racic duct diminished in calibre to a much greater extent than could be attributed to blood due to paralysis of the blood vessels. Ber- nard, on the other hand, believes that the phe nomena are not due to the effects of paralysis of the blood vessels, but are active; they are of the same nature as the vascular turgesence which arises in a secreting organ when it passes from a state of repose to an active discharge of function, and resemble the afflux of blood, and increased sensibility around a recent wound or foreign body in the living tex- tures ; phenomena which are not due to mere para- lysis of the arteries. The sympathetic is the only nerve section of which is followed by an exaltation of temperature. Section of the fifth nerve Bernard found to be fol- lowed by diminution of temperature on the corre- sponding side of the head. When the facial nerve was divided at its exit from the cranium, an eleva- tion of temperature took place on the paralysed side; this was increased when the sympathetics on the same side were also divided. If the facial was alone divided then, after a few days, the tempera- ture returned to an equality on both sides of the face. The calorification produced by section of the facial nerve Bernard attributes to the division of sympathetic fibres which join the nerve during its course through the temporal bone. He also found that when the anterior or posterior roots of the spinal nerves going to form the sacral plexus were divided, the temperature was not increased but diminished. See Monthly Journal of Med. Science, March, 1854. Original paper in Gazette Medicale, Janvier, 1854. Budge finds that removal of the portion of the spinal cord termed by him the ciliospinal region, is attended by an increase of temperature on the cor- responding side of the head in the same manner as when the sympathetic is divided in the neck. * Midler's Archiv. 1844, p. 448. t Henle and Pfeuffer's Zeitschrift, band iv. p. 353. the mere action of the atmospheric air. In a newly killed young rabbit, in which the part of the vena cava next the heart, as well as the right auricle were pulsating, he found on applying the wires of the magneto-electric apparatus to the right ventricles, that all con- traction in the vessel immediately ceased. Whatever influence the nervous system exercises over the processes of nutrition, it would seem that the sympathetic cannot be regarded as the only nerve concerned : the cerebro-spinal system also appears to share therein. In addition to what has been al- ready stated, p. 470., there are also other facts which favour such a view. Thus Ma- gendie found that, where the spinal cord was divided in the region of the neck, a disor- ganisation of the eyeball followed, similar to that which ensues upon division of the fifth nerve. Schiff* has observed that when the crus cerebri or optic thalamus in the rabbit was cut across, the secretions of the intestinal canal become altered; the excrements are slimy and mingled with blood ; the digestion is interfered with, the animal, towards the end of the first week, losing all appetite for food. After death the mucous membrane of the stomach and bronchi was found to be more or less injected with blood, the former also being softened. Similar appearances were also observed in the upper half of the small intestine. That, moreover, the influence ex- ercised by the sympathetic over these pro- cesses does not differ from that exercised by the cerebro-spinal system, is indicated by the circumstance that several glandular organs, such as the mammary and salivary glands, derive their nerves chiefly from cerebro-spinal nerves. From the experiments of Schiff and others it would appear, however, that the ganglionic system of nerves is more intimately con- nected with these processes than the strictly cerebro-spinal nerves are. Thus, Schiff found, in regard to the fifth nerve, that when it was divided between the brain and Gasserian gan- glion, the destruction of the textures of the eyeball follow more slowly then when it is divided between the ganglion and the eye. In the frog, also, when the lumbar plexus was divided, the animal continued for two or three months without any disturbance being ob- served in the nutrition of the limb ; but when several of the lumbar ganglia were removed, dropsical effusion into the abdominal cavity, and inflammation of the peritoneum, ending in the death of the animal, ensued in the course of two weeks.-f- Axmann £, as quoted by Va- lentin, divided at their roots the nerves which supply the posterior extremity in the frog, but in no instance observed that the opera- tion was followed by any disturbance in the nutritive processes : wounds of the soft tex- tures as well as of the bones healed as rapidly * De vi motoria basios encephali, p. 37., as quoted by Valentin. | Op. cit. p. 37. j De Gangliorum Systematis Strjictura penitiori ejusque Functionibus. Berlin. t. o^s