STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 336 constituents. It was reserved for Mialhe* to show, that the homogeneous physical con- stitution, which the whole contents of the stomach were erroneously supposed to assume at the end of its digestive act, is true in a much more important chemical sense, if limited to certain portions of the food. He found that the gastric digestion of the various protein compounds affords a solution which, what- ever the nature of the substance originally dissolved, possesses the same physical and chemical properties :—these properties being due to its containing a substance which, from its relations to albumen, he called albuminose. Lehmannf, who has confirmed and extended Mialhe's researches, proposes for this substance the better name of peptone. % Peptone.—According to these observers, the following properties are common to all kinds of peptone, from whatever substances they may have been derived. Reduced to the solid form by careful evaporation, peptone is a white or yellowish-whitesubstance ; almost tasteless and inodorous; very soluble in water; but inso- luble in alcohol of 83 per cent. Its watery solution reddens litmus; and is precipitated by chlorine, tannic acid, and metallic salts ; but is unaffected by boiling, by acids, or by alkalies. With alkalies and bases it forms very soluble neutral compounds or salts. An aqueous solution of these is still less preci- pitable by reagents than one of peptone itself. Thus it is thrown down only by tannic acid, bichloride of mercury, and a. mixture of the acetates of ammonia and lead :—the acetate of lead, and the ferrocyanide of potassium causing but a faint cloudiness; and even con- centrated acids, nitrate of silver, and alum, having no effect. The ultimate chemical composition of any particular peptone so closely resembles that of the substance from which it is formed as scarcely to require any further remark. In speaking of these chemical phenomena of stomach-digestion, there remains but to notice, that the addition of water, or a small quantity of fresh acid, is capable of re- storing some of its original digestive [lowers to saturated gastric juice, or a solution of peptone. The degree in which this renovation can be effected is obviously a question of great importance. But at present there are no exact observations on which to found any conjectures respecting it. It seems, however, sufficient to explain the discrepancy previously alluded to§ between the quantity of hydro- chloric acid which is present in the normal gas- tric juice, and that which is required to be * Journal de Pharmacie, t. x., pp. 161. et seq. t Op. cit. vol. ii. p. 50. % Both names being comparatively recent, there can be little objection to the adoption of the prefer- able one. And "peptone" not only connotes its relation to digestion, but avoids the disadvantage of "albuminose": — viz., that of giving an undue prominence to the connection of albumen with the gastric function. § See p. 334. added in preparing an artificial digestive fluid of maximum solvent power. The foregoing brief summary of the chief physical and chemical properties of the gastric juice, naturally leads us to the important question—What is the nature of its action? 1. It is obvious that the phenomena of gastric digestion do not constitute a simple process of solution by a dilute acid. For the organic principle is essential. The substances are not merely dissolved, but exhibit altered reactions. And, finally, they are not restored to their original form by the neutralization of the acid. 2. Some have supposed that the organic principle exercises a contactive influence, like that of spongy platinum in the acetification of alcohol. 3. Others have imagined that it produces a fermentation, like that excited by yeast in a solution of sugar. But we have seen that gastric juice will not dissolve more than a certain quantity of protein-compounds. While, in both of the above processes, a small quantity of the con- tactive or fermenting substance excites an action, which continues until the whole mass has been oxidized or fermented, as the case may be. This objection appears fatal to both these theories. And as regards the latter of them, we may further point out, that, unlike the particles of yeast, which are themselves undergoing metamorphosis, those of the di- gestive fluid are singularly stable, and enjoy a singular immunity from the putrefactive process. 4. Schmidt * has propounded a fourth theory, according to which the organic prin- ciple, and the acid, of the gastric juice are united to each other in the form of a complex acid, which he calls the hydrochloro-pepsic. This is decomposed by heat into pepsine and hydrochloric acid. In the stomach it unites with protein-compounds as bases, to form so- luble combinations. When treated with an alkali its pepsine is precipitated. And even when saturated with a protein-compound the power of the gastric juice is restored by fresh acid; because the latter, by uniting with the base, sets free the hydrochloro-pepsic acid, and thus enables it to combine with another portion of proteinous substance. But in respect to the two latter statements, it would appear that an alkali precipitates from the gastric juice but a very small part of its pepsine; and that even this portion is in com- bination with calcareous salts. While the re- actions of peptone show that the original pepsine is neither present as such, nor is ca- pable of being set free from its state of com- bination by the addition of an acid. And other facts, which seem to speak strongly in favour of this view, will as little bear a close investigation. Such are the close union of the acid to the organic principle; the definite amount of acid required for artificial digestion ; and the similarly definite amount of proteinous * hoe. cit.