PELVIS. 201 opposing ones ; the ankylosed innominate bone appearing as if pushed upwards. A remarkable peculiarity of this deformity is, that, with the exception of the difference in the side where the ankylosis had taken place, the pelves affected with it were extremely like each other. The strength, texture, and ap- pearance of the bones were perfectly healthy ; there was no limping gait observed in the patients affected with it; nor any history of accident, rickets, or malacosteon. Examples. — Naegele collected, with incre- dible industry, notes of thirty-five examples of this disease in female pelves, and two in male pelves. Of these, two (one male and the other female) were in the collection of Pro- fessor Montgomery, of Dublin, and the others in the various collections of France, Germany, and Italy. In one case, which was observed during life by the author himself, he observed a slight halt in the gait of the patient, who otherwise was apparently well-built, healthy, and active. In her first labour, at the age of eighteen years, the foetal head in the early stage was found placed very high, and easily moveable, and the sacral promontory could not be reached by the finger. The patient was delivered, on the third day, with extreme difficulty by the aid of the forceps, and died fifteen days afterwards from puerperal fever. The pelvis was found affected with the oblique deformity, but in strength, weight, and texture perfectly healthy (Jig. 123.). The sacrum was Fig. 123. Pelvis oblique ovata. (After Naegele.) composed of four pieces only, and measured in length 2 inches 11 lines. The coccyx had six pieces, and measured 1 inch 10 lines. The left sacro-iliac joint was ankylosed, and the same side of the sacrum was shrunk and con- tracted, so as to measure from the sacral pro- montory to the usual position of the sacro- iliac joint, only 1 inch 4 lines ; whereas the same measurement on the right side amounted to 2 inches 2 lines. The length of the left iliac crest was 3 lines less than that of the right. From the sacral promontory to the left superior anterior iliac spine measured only 3 inches 11£ lines. The same measure- ment on the right side amounted to 5 inches 4 lines. At the brim of the pelvis the mea- surements were:—■ in. lines. From the sacral promontory to the upper border of the ob- liquely placed symphysis pu- bis - 3 9 Left oblique diameter 4 7 Right, ditto, ditto 3 5 From the sacral promontory to left acetabulum 1 10 From ditto to right acetabulum 3 6 A direct line drawn forward from the sacral promontory cut the left pubis at the junc- tion of its superior and inferior branches, an inch external to the centre of the pubic sym- physis. In the pelvic cavity the measurements were : — in. lines. From the centre of the sacrum, to that of pubic symphysis - 4 4 Between the cotyloid walls - 3 11 ,, „ ischial spines - 2 11^ At the outiet, the measurements were : — in. lines. Between the sciatic tuberosities 3 0 „ lower border of the pubic symphysis and apex of sacrum 4 4 The lowest oblique diameter in these pelves described by Naegele, was found in one in the Museum of the Hospital of St. Catherine at Milan, in which the left oblique diameter was 2 inches 10 lines only ; while the right was 4 inches 6 lines. In the same pelvis, the right sacro-cotyloid measured only 1 inch 8 lines ; ami the left 3 inches 1 line. In one case, the left, and, in another, the right sacro-cotyloid diameter, was as low as 1 inch 6 lines. In one instance, the distance between the tip of the coccyx and the tuber ischii of the ankyloid side, was only 1 inch. The left side was the one most frequently affected by the ankylosis, but the right side was also found affected in many of the specimens, and, among others, in the pelvis of an Egyptian female mummy. In addition to the foregoing, three female pelves are described by the same author, in which the oblique deformity was present, but the diminution of the diameters not so great as to produce any great obstacle to parturition. One of these is in the Museum of St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, and is rather above the medium size. The right side of the sacrum is imperfectly developed. The left oblique dia- meter is nearly 11 lines less than the right ; and the right sacro-cotyloid distance, lOiiines less than the left. A line drawn directly for- ward from the sacral promontory cuts the right pubis 1 inch external to the centre of the sym- physis ; and the distance from the sacral pro- montory to the symphysis is 4 inches 10£ lines. One of them, in Naegele'sown collection has six instead of five sacral pieces. In none of these three pelves, however, is there ankylosis of either of the sacro-iliac joints, although the imperfect development of one side of the sacrum is evident. In a male pelvis, on the contrary, there was