UTERUS —(Abnormal Anatomy). C87 body the walls may not exceed in thickness or density those of the urinary bladder. Such a condition may occur under dilatation of the uterine cavity, which however is more com- monly attended by an increase in the thick- ness of the uterine parietes. The atrophy of the uterine walls which is accompanied by dilatation of the cavity, is distinguished as excentric, and that which occurs in combi- nation with a diminished cavity as concentric atrophy. Atrophy of the cervix may be combined with partial atresia of its canal, and is often associated with some malposition or morbid growth of the uterine body or its appendages. b. Hypertrophy is of far more frequent oc- currence than uterine atrophy. According as this condition affects the entire uterus or only some of its parts, the organ either presents the ordinary figure but upon a larger scale, or else a greater preponderance is given to one portion, so that the uterus becomes malformed. Hypertrophy of the entire uterus commonly results from frequent pregnancy, from the growth of tumours, or from accumulation of fluid within the cavity. In the latter cases the uterine walls may acquire the same thick- ness as in pregnancy — and the hypertrophy is due also to the same cause, viz. to a deve- lopment of smooth muscular fibre, such as ordinarily takes place in the gravid uterus. Hypertrophy of the cervix is most fre- quently observed in extreme prolapsus, of which in the chronic stage it appears to be a constant sequence. Here the hyper- trophy produces usually a uniform enlarge- ment of both lips, which form together an annular tumour divided transversely by a wide os tineas, Jig, 472. Fig. 472. Hypertrophy of the os and cervix in prolapsus uteri. (Ad ATut.) But the cervix may become hypertrophied in the longitudinal direction also. From this there results a remarkable elongation of the uterine neck, which may protrude to a con- siderable distance beyond the vulva without a corresponding degree of displacement or de- scent of the body of the uterus. In the ac- companying illustration, Jig. 473, the manner of growth of the elongated cervix is shown. The body of the organ being only partially displaced, a gradual addition to the length of Fig. 473. Elongation of the cervix uteri from longitudinal hy- pertrophy. {Ad Nat.) f, fundus; io, internal os uteri; cc, cervix; va, vaginal walls. the neck occurs until the vaginal portion pro- trudes at the vulva. The canal of the cervix may now measure several inches in length. By degrees the protruded part undergoes in addi- tion the concentric and excentric hypertrophy which is common to all cases of procidentia, and the lips gradually acquire the same ap- pearance as in Jig. 472. Among the anomalies of size may also be included those examples of imperfect involu- tion of the uterus after pregnancy, in which the organ retains for several months the or- dinary size characteristic of it shortly after labour. Pathological conditions of the separate tissues of the uterus.—Reserving for future notice the affections of the gravid uterus, those morbid states which are observed in the unimpreg- nated organ will be at present considered. These may be divided into such as belong to (I) the peritoneum; (2) the subperitoneal tissue; (8) the parenchyma; and (4) the mucous lining of the uterus. 1. Pathological conditions of the peritoneal coat. a. The external position of the peritoneal coat, and the small amount which it con- tributes to the bulk of the uterus, combine to