541 RUMINANTIA. hollow-horned Ruminantia invariably possess this structure. In connection with this sub- ject, Prof. Owen has pointed out a most cu- rious anomaly in the aberrant cervine genus Camelopardalis. Out of three individuals anatomised by him, and a single specimen by ourselves, in one instance only has there been found a bile-cyst — a circumstance serving to illustrate a feeble alliance with the Ante- lopidae on the one hand, and a near approach to the Cervidas and Camelidae on the other. The gall-bladder, discovered by Prof. Owen, occurred in a female Giraffe ; it was bifid at the fundus, and exhibited several peculiarities which he has thus described.* " It was at- Fig. 364. Double gall-bladder of the Giraffe. (From Owen.) tached in the usual manner and situation to the under part of the liver, having a covering of peritoneum over three-fourths of its sur- face. It measured three inches in length, and two inches in diameter. On making a longitudinal incision down one side of this apparently single gall-bladder, it was seen to be divided throughout its length by a middle vertical septum. Further dissection of this septum showed that the gall-bladder in fact was double, and that the two reservoirs of equal size were connected together, side by side, by means of a common investment of serous membrane. The lining membrane of each bladder was smooth ; they communi- cated separately with the commencement of a single cystic duct, the terminal orifices admitting freely the blunt end of a common probe, and being protected by a valvular fold." * Memoir, /. c. p. 228. The hepatic duct attains an enormous size in the Sheep, and in this animal as also in the Ox and Goat, the common ductus choledicus enters the duodenum about twelve inches from the pylorus. The opening is a little less than eight inches distant from the sto- machal orifice in the Camel,— and in the Llama, Deer, and Antelope, is situated quite close to the valve (Cuvier, Meckel). The pancreas is somewhat bilobed, and, like the liver and spleen, comparatively insigni- ficant. The excretory canal is spacious in the Sheep, and unites with the common duct of the liver about two inches from the duo- denal communication ; its junction takes place rather closer to the gut in the Camel. These passages are separate in the Ox, and sometimes leave a considerable interspace between their duodenal terminations. The spleen usually presents a flattened oval or rounded figure ; in its normal posi- tion it is applied against the left side of the paunch, and has about one-sixth of the weight of the liver. In the Llama its form is semilunar, and it is particularly narrow in the Antelopes, Deer, and Giraffe. On making a section through the spleen of the Ox, the malpighian corpuscles are seen to be remark- ably large and conspicuous. Organs of circulation.—The heart of the ru- minant as in other mammifera, lies parallel with the sternum near the middle line. Its capacity corresponds with the large bulk of the herbi- vorous quadruped, but the auricles are re- latively small as compared with the ventricles ; this feature is more noticeable in Cervida?, and in the Giraffe, where the organ in its entirety is rather more elongated than in the Camels. Oneof the most striking peculiarities possessed by certain species of this order, in common with many other animals, such as the Hog, Elephant, and Horse, — consists in the pre- sence of one or sometimes two small ossifica- tions situated in the septum ventriculorum at the root of the aorta ; these so-called " bones of the heart" are flattened, more or less curved or cruciform, and generally speaking they are less strongly developed in the female; in the Giraffe this bone is about two-thirds of an inch in length (Owen). The distribution of the great vessels proceeding from the base of the heart resembles for the most part that of the human subject, but the aorta, as in Pachydermata, divides close to its origin into two unequal trunks, the smaller passing forwards and representing the arteria inno- minata, and the larger curving backwards to supply the place of the descending trunk. The ascending vessel gives off the subclavian artery much nearer to the heart in Solipeda than in the Ruminants (Meckel). In the Bactrian Camel the subclavian is not quite so far distant as in the Horse, while in the Dro- medary this division leaves the innominata within two lines from its insertion into the heart (Daubenton). The deviations of the vertebral were indicated when describing the characters of the cervical vertebra in the different genera. The thyroid body is supplied