PELVIS. 183 N 4 of the great glutei muscles upon softened iscliia. In some instances, however, this length and projection of the spines cannot be thus accounted for. Obstruction may occur before the head reaches the tuberosities in these cases. Their relative positions may be altered also by fracture. Pelves in which the cavities are contracted at the lower part by disease, present the chief obstacles at the inferior outlet, and will be considered under that head. A variety of the shape of the pelvic cavity is mentioned by Murphy, as forming a contrast to the funnel-shaped masculine pelvis. It is the funnel-shaped reversed by the gradual wi- dening of the transverse diameters downward; but, being generally attended by some contrac- tion at the brim, it belongs rather to the classes of deformities before described, and would seem to resemble the first case of Pamsbo- tham's there cited, and to be the beginning of a more complete ovate deformity, afterwards to be mentioned, as shown by the widening of the inferior opening. Distortions affecting the outlet only or 'prin- cipally.— In these cases the greatest obstruc- tion occurs at the inferior outlet, which, being comparatively independent of the brim and cavity, may be contracted without any im- portant alteration in their shape or size. Contraction of the transverse diameter is the most frequently seen. The ischial tube- rosities arc approximated, and the space of the sub-pubic arch lessened ; and thus, indi- rectly, the antero-posterior diameter is ren- dered less effectual. Cases are frequently presented to the obstetrician, and many are on record, in which obstruction has occurred at the sciatic tuberosities, and the use of the forceps been rendered necessary. The normal distance between the centres of these processes is from 4 inches to 4^. In my measurements I have met with as small a distance as 3§ inches in female pelves, in which the trans- verse diameters were generally rather small. The bi-parietal diameter of the foetal head is said to be 3A inches, and is placed obliquely between these tuberosities, as the occiput emerges under the sub-pubic arch. The soft parts, besides, will occupy at least three- fourths of an inch. Thus with a large and well-ossified head and contracted inter- tuberal distance, the impediment is great. The diminished span of the sub-pubic arch, also, pushes back the head upon the coccyx, and renders a greater enlargement than usual of the antero-posterior diameter necessary ; while at the same time the great sacro-sciatic ligaments are also approximated and rendered extremely tense, and thus the oblique di- ameter between them and the ischio-pubic rami is also considerably diminished. The special cause of this deformity, when not dependent upon the infantile, masculine, or funnel-shaped pelvis before described, is to be attributed to the action of the great glutei muscles, in standing and walking, pressing upon the iscliia partially softened by disease. Contraction of the antero-posterior diameter. This results in most cases from ankylosis of the sacro-coccygeal joint. The coccyx is rendered immoveable and incapable of yielding to the head of the foetus, so as to bring about the usual increase in the antero-posterior diameter. In addition, it is usually ankylosed in an almost horizontal direction, with its apex directed forwards and its surfaces upwards and downwards, a position which is brought about by the resiliency of the sacro-sciatic liga- ments and ischio-coccygeus muscles, and by a continued sitting posture ;—-and thus the an- tero-posteriordiameter is still more diminished. The foetal head is arrested by, and rests on, the coccyx, and the obstruction is only over- come by the giving way of the bone at or near the ankylosed part. The delivery gener- ally requires instrumental aid. Examples of this condition are nume- rous. In the practice of Dr. Michaelis of Kit], a fracture of the parietal bone of the infant was occasioned by an immobility of the coccyx resulting from -ankylosis.* Dr. Merriman, in a Letter to Dr. Lee, published in the Med. Gazette (1843, p. 224.), mentions a casein which the point of the coccyx snapped off in three successive labours, and he had observed one or two other cases in which this occurred, and no ill consequences followed. In one, the coccyx was turned upwards, and there was a considerable bulk of ankylosis, pro- duced by a fall. Dr. F. Ramsbotham also mentions three instances in which fracture at or near an ankylosis of the coccyx took place. Dr. Lee relates also a case which occurred in the practice of a country surgeon, in which the lower end of the sacrum curved much forward and was ankylosed to the upper coccygeal bones, the last only being moveable. In certain cases the contraction of this diameter is brought about by the tilting forward of the lower end of the sacrum, with an almost horizontal direction of the lower part of the sacral curve. I have met with two or three pelves in which this condition is present, coexistent with, and evidently caused by, a curvature of the lower dorsal region of the spinal column backwards. By such a curvature, theline of gravity of thetrunfeis displaced back- wards, passing through the sacrum consider- ably behind its base, and making traction upon it in that direction. The promontory of the sacrum is by this means dragged baclwards and upwards, and the conjugate diameter of the brim increased, so as to be equal to, or greater than, the transverse. The shape of the brim is thus rendered oblong or oval in the opposite direction to, and contrasting with, the ovate deformity presently to be described. The axis of the superior plane is rendered more horizontal than normal, by the increase of the pelvi-vertebral angle, thecotylo- saetal arch more open in its curve, and the acetabulain some measure approximated. The cavity of the pelvis is narrowed antero-pos- teriorly by the gradual advance downwards of the posterior wall, and the vertical curvature * Kcuc Zeitschrift fiir Gebnrtskundc, t. iv. 1830.