558 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. folliculi, retaining its ordinary condition. Already a slightly wavy outline is perceptible in the follicle (fig. 381.), which is due to the growth of the inner membrane having con- tinued after the outer coat has ceased to ex- pand. The inner coat of the follicle, when it has thus acquired a yellow colour, is seen, by the aid of the microscope, to have undergone an important and yet very simple change. On its inner surface, or that which is turned towards the cavity of the ovisac, it presents the appearance of a transparent and nearly structureless membrane, in the substance of which are imbedded numerous oil droplets, very minute, and aggregated in little masses, Fig. 382. Cells filled with oil-granules which give the yelloiv colour to the inner coat of the Graafian follicle be- fore it has hurst, forming the substance termed cor- pus luteum. (Ad Nat. x 350.) a, separate cells; 6, the same imbedded in the structureless membrane. (From the same subject as figs. 380. and 381.) with a certain regularity which suggests the idea that they have either been originally deposited around a centre globule, or are contained in cells or vesicles, the cell-wall of which is not very discernible (fig. 382. b). Deeper towards the outer surface of the ovisac the oil droplets or granules become so numerous as to prevent the recognition of any other structure until the greater portion of the oil has been dissolved out by macerating the part in ether. If, after this process, the tissue which remains be washed in spirit or water, and subsequently treated by acetic acid, it is seen to be composed of numerous blood- vessels, and of developed as well as embryonic fibres of connective tissue, which latter, how- ever, are only faintly indicated, and are con- nected together by a transparent membrane. The proportion of developed fibres of con- nective tissue is here very large, whilst in less advanced follicles the embryonic fibres preponderate (fig. 375.). Another and perhaps more satisfactory mode of examining the yellow coat of the Graafian follicle in this stage, consists in slow maceration in a very weak preservative fluid (glycerine and water). The cells, which this coat contains in great abundance, can now be obtained separately for observation. They are seen to consist of a transparent cell-wall, filled with oil granules (fig 382. a). The average cells vary in diameter from to jJjj", but many are smaller, and others lar- ger. Occasionally a cell may be seen to have burst, its contents having escaped ; a few oil granules, however, may still be perceived ad- hering to the cell-wall, the torn margins of wliich are very readily defined. There can be no doubt that these cells are the "peculiar granules" so frequently described and figured by Barry in his account of the various con- ditions and stages of development of the ovisac. The colour of the yellow coat—the so-called corpus luteum—is not alike in all animals. In some of the Mammalia it is of a bright orange; in others it inclines to red. In Man, as already stated, the inner surface of the follicle, when ripe, is occasionally so loaded with bright red capillaries that the usual appearance is obscured, but its ordinary as- pect presents the clear chrome yellow just described. That this yellow colour, like that of the yolk of the bird's egg, is due to the presence of the oil globules (fig. 382. b) which everywhere penetrate the tissues of this coat, is rendered sufficiently apparent: first, by the fact that treatment by ether, which dissolves out the oil granules, leaves the remaining membrane nearly white ; and secondly, that maceration in water has, to a certain ex- tent, the like effect, but in this case arising from the maceration, causing the animal membrane to swell and become opaque, thus obscuring its previous transparency, and ren- dering the oily portions only faintly dis- cernible through it, as judged by the naked eye, though they are still readily discoverable under the microscope. Third Stage. Period of Rupture or Dehis- cence of the Follicle, and Escape of the Ovum. —This is termed by Pouchet the period of parturition, in which, after the preparatory changes already described, the ovum quits the Graafian follicle in order to enter the Fallopian tube. It is therefore for the ovisac what the process of parturition is for the uterus, viz., the act by which the ovum, after being matured to a certain point of perfection, is expelled from its cavity. The process by which the dehiscence of the follicle is effected in Mammalia is in some re- spects different from that which causes the expulsion of the ovum, from its containing capsule, in the vertebrata below them. In birds, reptiles, and fishes, and, indeed, in the Invertebrata generally, the ovum is of so large a size in comparison with the ovicap- sule, that the simple increase of the former, as the time of theovipont* approaches, is suffi- cient to cause the bursting of the sac at the point where the coats have been prepared for rupture by previous attenuation. But in the Mammalia the bulk of the ovum bears so small a proportion to its containing follicle, that the ovum itself contributes in no degree to the rupture by which it is enabled to escape. In this process it remains a passive body, at least in a mechanical point of view, though doubtless it is the perfecting of the ovum which gives the vital impetus to that series of changes by which it is finally released from its first abode. But the act of * I have anglicised the French term oviponte (ovi- pont), to express the escape of the ovum from the ovary; while "ovulatiou" is employed, in a more general sense, to include also the process of its maturation.