TEGUMENTALY ORGANS. 486 another at right angles, so that they form two sets of opposite spirals. The fibres are sharply contoured, dense, and brittle, and those of each layer are divided into six sets, corre- sponding with the six sections of the body. At the sutures the fibres of each bend back upon themselves, and run in a parallel course to the opposite suture. The deep layer is the thickest; it appears longitudinally striated on section, and may be split into lamellae of any thickness ; other- wise it is perfectly structureless. In the Nemertidae, according to the re- searches of Quatrcfages, the integument has essentially the same structure, consisting of a superficial structureless ciliated lamina, with deeper vacuolated and fibrillated layers. In the other Turbellaria the vacuolated struc- ture is predominant. This fibrous chitinous integument is still better developed in the Insecta. According to Mayer (/. c.) the chitinous integument of Lucanus cervus is composed of glassy rods with sharply defined dark, paral- lel edges, which by their mutual apposition and anastomosis, and probably by the interposition of a connecting mass, form thin layers. The rods in each layer are parallel, but those of different layers cross one another at angles of from 45째 to 90째; so that a horizontal section presents a sort of elegant cross-hatching, the lines of which are about O008 mm. apart. The outer surface of this laminated mass is invested by a transparent homogeneous sub- stance containing pigment, and above this by a layer of epidermic " cells" (O'OOo to O'Ol mm. in diameter), with'nuclei and nucleoli, their edges being separated by an intermediate substance. Internally, there is also a layer of epidermic " cells " which are polygonal from mutual pressure. They are without nuclei, but possess a short spine, arising from the centre of the cell, and ending by a sharp point. Quekett (/. c.) describes a similar structure, consisting of striated laminae, in the integu- ment of Dynastes Hercules. The integument thus described closely re- sembles that of the larger Crustacea {vide infra), and I should have placed it with them, except for the very distinct statement of Mr. Newport with regard to the development of the integument in Meloe. According to Mr. Newport's researches, the integument of the young Meloe is at first composed of polygonal nucleated cells, the largest of which is about Woo 째f an mcn 'n diameter. As the animal grows, the nuclei divide and subdivide by a process of fission, and the integument becomes composed of several layers. After awhile, the deeper of these undergo a fibrous meta- morphosis, and constitute a fibro-cellular structure, which gives attachment internally to the muscles, while the external layers continue to grow, and to be reproduced as distinct cells. If this were the mode of development which obtained in all Insecta we must con- sider their chitinous integument to be pro- duced by conversion of the previously ex- isting cells of the ecderon. However, Leydig's statements are equally decided, that the in- tegument of Corethra presents no appearance of cellular origin, and the question may, there- fore, for the present, probably be considered undecided. The calcified integument of the Crustacea presents the same general structure as that of the other Annulosa, consisting of superposed chitinous, more or less fibrous lamellae, the outer of which are infiltrated with a calcareous deposit. In the small transparent Crustacea, as we have already seen, the integument is composed of structureless layers, developed by excretion on the surface of the ecderon, and even in the largest forms, the minute hairs, &c, present precisely the same ap- pearance ; but in the thick integument of the Decapoda, certain layers of the shell have been described, not without considerable show of reason, as possessing a cellular organisation (Carpenter). I have carefully examined the shell of the common crab in relation to this point, and the following are the results of my investigation. It appeared to me in the first place, that, without seeking for a moulting crab, the structure of the integument in its uncalcified state might be readily ascertained by ex- amining the soft membrane connecting the articulations of the limbs, which, as is well known, is continuous on either hand with the calcareous integument, and passes into it. In a section of this soft layer {fig. 312. a), I found from within, outward, 1. The enderon (a) composed of connective tissue, excavated by vascular channels, and containing nume- rous aggregations of pink and yellow pigment, frequently disposed in a stellate form, or even forming anastomosing net-works along the ru- dimentary elastic fibres of the tissue. 2. The surface of this (6) was constituted by a proto- morphic layer, consisting of a homogeneous substance containing endoplasts (c), which sometimes adhered to the enderon, sometimes to the hard integument, when the latter was detached. 3. Superficial to this, was the chitinous layer of the integument (c) com- posed of a number of laminae of great deli- cacy, and not more than 30V0 0I" an i째cn apart. The deep laminae were much softer than the superficial, and the outermost lamina of all was hardest, and of a brownish colour, constituting the structureless epidermis of Carpenter and Lavalle. In section, the deep laminae (b) presented only an indication of perpendicular fibrillation; but this became more marked superficially, the outer part of the section appearing closely- striated. The deep laminae, when stripped off, presented no definite structure, but they readily fell into plaits ; while the superficial laminae ap- peared dotted over. I sought in vain for any appearance of endoplasts in the deep layer, where, however, had they existed, they must have been readily detected ; and I therefore conclude, that the chitinous lamellae are formed from the subjacent ecderon, by a process of ex- cretion. It should be remarked, however, that