SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 433 organic nerve fibres. According to Puikinje *, the ganglionic nerve-fibres are much finer than those belonging to the cerebro-spinol system or animal fibres. He describes the latter as containing two substances,—an outer, which runs in the form of a tube through the elementary fibre immediately within its sheath, and an inner, which occupies the hollow in- terior of the former. The tubular sheaths of the elementary fibres of the ganglionic system contain, on the other hand, no double substance ; their contents are homogeneous, and appear to correspond to the axis cy- linder or central portion of the animal nerve- fibres ; their sheaths are much stronger than those of the nerve-fibres of the cerebro- spinal nerves, and resist mechanical influ- ences in a high degree. In the fcetus the animal nerve-fibres cannot, according to Pui kinje, be distinguished at a certain stage of their formation from those which are cha- racteristic of the sympathetic in the full-grown animal ; and hence he regarded the latter as a less highly developed stage of the former. Pappenheim also appears to have recognised the fibres described by Purkinje, as consti- tuting the peculiar fibres of the sympathetic system. According to Remakf, the fibres which have been described above as the gelatinous fibres or fibres of Remak, constitute the pe- culiar organic or sympathetic nerve-fibre, all the tubular nerve-fibres being considered by him as belonging to the cerebro-spinal system. The fibres in question do not take their origin, according to him, from the cerebro-spinal centres, but arise from the ganglionic corpuscles contained in the different ganglia, and then run along with the tubular fibres sent to the sympathetic by the cerebral and spinal nerves. It has been disputed, however, whether the fibres described by Remak are entitled to the character of nerve-fibres, and are not rather to be regarded in the fight of accessory struc- tures which serve as a sheath to the true or tubular nerve-fibres. Valentin J, who adopts the latter view, states that the fibres in ques- tion do not arise from the ganglionic cor- puscles themselves, as was believed by Remak, but are continuous with the nucleated sub- stance which forms the sheath or capsule of these bodies, and are thence prolonged upon the nerve-tubes, and are to be viewed as merely discharging the part of a protecting covering or envelope to the latter. They do not, according to Valentin, present the most distant resemblance to nerve-tubes, which could scarcely be the case were they in reality a mere variety of the same structures : in their microscopic character, on the other hand, they agree in every respect with certain * Muller's Archiv. 1839, p. 203. Valentin's Ee- pertorium, band v. p. 78. See also Bidder and Volkman, op. cit. f Loc. cit. X Ueber die Scheiden der Ganglienkngelo mid deren Fortsetzungen, in Muller's Ai-ckiv. 1839. Also Valentin's Repertorium, band iii. p. 76. et seq., and band v. p. 79., &c. Hupp. forms of white fibrous tissue, especially at certain stages of its formation ; and they are From the semilunar ganglion of man. A. Ganglionic corpuscles included within their nucleated capsules. 15. Ditto liberated. entirely wanting, or occur only in small num- bers, in the main cord of the sympathetic, where the fibrous tissue is, as well as in many of the peripherical branches of the same, deficient. In the horse the fibres of Remak, which are present in the nerve-branches passing along the mesentery, were seen by Valentin to cease one or two feet from the point at which the nerves enter the intestine. Bidder* and Volkmann also appear to regard them merely as a variety of areolar tissue, observing that their anatomical characters are so different from the known elements of the nervous system as to exclude them from the character of true nerve-fibres. In the mammalia, according to these authors, the areolar tissue which is interposed between the different organs is very abundant, and in this class of animals the fibres of Remak also abound. In birds, where the quantity of such areolar tissue is smaller, these fibres are not so nu- merous ; and in the cold-blooded animals, where there is very little interposed areolar tissue, the fibres of Remak either fail al- together, or they exist only in very small numbers. From this it would appear that they regard the fibres of Remak as holding the same relation to the tubular nerve-fibres that the areolar tissue holds to the different organs between which it is interposed. They also aa;ree with Valentin in regard to the very marked resemblance between these fibres and white fibrous tissue at certain stages of its formation, and accordingly adopt the view that they "re rather to be regarded as white fibrous tissue which has not reached its full development than true nerve-fibres. They find, moreover, as will be afterwards noticed, * Op. cit. § 12. F F