260 RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. from 0-015 to 0-02'", and in breadth from 0-0025 to 0-004"', according to the measure- ments of KoIIiker.* This order of ciliated cells is disposed upon a bed of cytoblasts in a double stratum of about 0-006 to 0-0 V", in thickness : they differ from ordinary cylinder epithelia in the remarkable length to which the attached extremity is prolonged ; the tail of each cell exhibits quite the character of a yellow filament, and measures from 0-024 to 0-027'" in length. In the centre of the broad end of each of these cells is contained, without exception, a clear, bright, oblong nucleus, of from 0'003 to 0-0045"' in length ; and, further, each nucleus bears a very visible nucleolus (e, fig. 204.). The cell contents consist of minute granules and fat molecules. Valentin de- scribes a double nucleus in many of these cells. The cilia attached to the tracheal epithelium are clear, fine continuations of the cell-mem- brane : they measure 0-0016 to 0 0022'" in length : each cilium tapers to its free extre- mity, that is, it is broader at its base than at its apex. The cilia of the tracheal epithelium are longer and more conspicuous in the em- bryo than in the adult -. the current excited by their vibration tends in the direction of the laryngeal outlet of the tube. Proofs will be afterwards adduced that these motive or- ganules enact no part in the office of re- spiration : they subserve a merely mechanical purpose in the process of mucous excretion. These epithelia swell in water, while chromic acid restores them to their original characters (Hannover). By Biermer and Gosselin-)", the tracheal cilia have been detected in motion 78 hours after death in man. Under normal circumstances no shedding occurs in the epi- thelium of the air-passages. In disease, however, these cells abundantly desquamate. (See Pathological Anatomy of the Lungs). It thus appears that the cells of the tracheal epithelium proceed from the basement mem- brane (b, fig. 204.) in the direction of the surface in successive generations, the youngest (cytoblasts) being the deepest and the next to the blood-supply, and the oldest, the highest and cilia-bearirg. It is stated by Hannover J, that this epithelium may be indefinitely pre- served in chromic acid. The tracheal glands are productions of the mucous membrane of the trachea. The largest and most numerous are situated in the posterior wall of the tube, and possess long excretory ducts (i,fig. 206.), which traverse the whole thickness of the muscular and elastic layers. The glandules themselves are best examined from the outside, and rest on the posterior surface of the trachealis muscle; they exhibit a slightly reddish colour, and belong to the compound order of glands(/) ; they do not all belong to the same variety; some coincide in structure with the salivary * Handbueh der Gewebelehre, &c, p. 450. f Verh. der Wurzb. Phys. et Med. Gesellsch. i. 212. % Midler's Avchiv, 1840. glands, others with the sudoriferous. Those which are found over the cartilaginous an- terior three fourths of the tracheal walls, are thinly distributed, and penetrate into in- tervals between the ring-cartilages. This class of glands measures from to a of an inch : they are smaller than those which cluster on the posterior surface of the tracheal muscle and which measure from \ of an inch to an inch. In external characters these glands corre- spond with the grape-like compound glands : from the latter, however, they differ in some particulars. It is only the larger variety of these glands which is lined at the terminal gland-vesicles, with globular epithelium, the ducts being clothed with the cylinder variety. The smaller sort, conforming in this respect with ordinary sudoriferous follicles, are lined throughout with cylinder epithelium. In these latter there is no distinction (except that of size) between the epithelium which clothes the blind extremities of the follicles and that which covers the ducts. These follicles fork at their ccecal extremes, each branch measuring from 0'02 to 0-03'" in Fig. 206. \a Ideal transverse section of the wall of the trachea. (After'Kdlliker.) a, areolar tissue embracing the cartilages ex- ternally; b, c, d, ring cartilage seen in section; b, outermost layers having flat cells; c, soft and mid- portion— cells oval; d, innermost layers with flat cells ; e, sub-mucous tissue; /, part of a tracheal gland ; g, elastic tissue with longitudinal fibres; h, ciliated epithelium.