117 PELVIS. lowed, rough, and broad in front, for the attachment of sonic muscles of the leg. There are numel ons nutritious openings on this sur- face of the ischium and pubis, which are chiefly directed towards the cotyloid cavity. Fig. 77. Internal view of the os innominatum. The internal or pelvic surface presents for examination a superior or iliac portion di- rected forwards, upwards, and inwards, and an inferior ischio-pubic portion directed in- wards and backwards. The iliac portion is rough at the posterior third, and is marked by a thick, massy, irre- gular prominence, just below the posterior extremity of the crest, which is continued to the posterior superior spine, and serves for the attachment of powerful ligaments which connect this bone to the sacrum. This may be called, for brevity, the iliac tuberosity (1). An inch and a half below this is an angu- lar or semilunar articular surface, the sacral, or auricular (2), to which the sacrum is at- tached in the complete pelvis. This surface is generally more or less rough and irre- gular, for the more firm attachment of the articular cartilage. It is composed of two elongated portions placed at right angles to each other, of which the inferior is the longer, and is directed horizontally backwards to the posterior inferior spine, parallel with and close above the upper boundary of the great sciatic notch (m, n), while the superior is directed vertically upwards towards the crest of the ilium, to which its raised anterior border is prolonged by a well marked ridge (3). At the an^le of junction of these two limbs is gene- rally to be seen a deep hollow, while the ex- tremity of the inferior limb is bevelled off to correspond to elevations on the opposed sur- faces of the sacrum. In the retiring angle formed by the auricular surface is a very rough depression for the attachment of inter-osseous ligaments (7). The anterior two thirds of the internal iliac surface forms a complete smooth and regular hollow called the internal iliac fossa (4) for the reception of a muscle, which is continued downwards and forwards into the groove before described, below the anterior inferior spine of the ilium (r/ toe). At a small distance in front of the articular surface, is a large nutritious opening, directed down- wards and forwards towards the cotyloid cavity, for the passage of the principal nu- tritive artery of this bone. Many others of less calibre, all directed downwards, also exist on this surface. Passing downwards and for- wards from the angle of the sacro-iliac arti- cular surface is a thick, rounded and arched ridge of bone (o), which serves to transmit the weight of the spine from the sacral arti- cular surface to the femur at the cotyloid articulation. Just behind the ilio-peetineal eminence, before described, this line becomes more salient, and passes from this point to the spine of the pubes as a well marked pro- jecting crest, the Uio-pectineal line (G), which serves for the attachment of a muscle of the leg, and some strong fascia?. The internal surface of the pubis and ischium, and the small inferior, or true pelvic portion of the ilium, are seen below this line, which separates them from the iliac fossa. Posteriorly is seen a broad, flat surface (/j), to which is op- posed the cotyloid cavity externally, and the rough lines, marking the junction of the three component bones, are repeated more strongly and more extensively here than in the coty - loid cavity itself. They form a Y shape, the posterior limb of which is directed backward to the top of the great sciatic notch ; one branch terminates at the pectineal eminence ; and the other at the obturator opening, where it passes into the commencement of the sub- pubic groove (/), the termination of which was described with the external surface. An- teriorly is seen the inner aspect of the obtu- rator foramen (o). and the posterior surfaces, and slightly marked line of union of the branches of the pubis and ischium (;•, s), which are smooth, rounded off, and laterally convex for the apposition of the pelvic viscera. Below is the inner aspect of the great tuber- osity of the ischium (i), which is also smooth and concave for the like purposes. Internal structure of the innominate bone. — Like other irregular bones, the haunch- bone is composed of cancellous structure, encased in layers of laminated bone, more or less thick, as strength and tenacity are re- quired. The thickest and strongest part of the haunch-bone is the arched, rounded rib, ex- tending from the cotyloid cavity to the au- ricular surface and tuberosity of the ilium, which is the direct line of pressure from the spine to the legs, A cross section of this part of the bone is nearly an inch in diameter, generally, at its narrowest point. The de- scending rami of the ischia are the next in point of strength, for supporting the body I 3