195 PELVIS, o 2 rcctly forwards, without any lateral deviation inwards or outwards. In the Hunterian Museum also, there is a rickety skeleton of a child of six years, in which the pelvis presents the angular deformity and approxi- mation of the acetabula. In none of these specimens is there any great backward curva- ture of the spinal column, though, in the last instance, the sacrum is bent so much forward, that the tip of the coccyx is almost on a level with the superior plane in the centre of the opening. It is, however, especially remarkable that in all these last-mentioned specimens, as well as in that figured by Naegele and just described, the angle of the bend or culm of the lateral curve produced by the pressure inwards of the heads of the femurs, takes place in the acetabula at the line of junction of the two upper pieces of the innominatum, and not in the superior branchof the pubis itself, as in most of the cases resulting from mollities ossium. This is evidently produced by the more facile and greater yielding of the as yet unossified cotyloid cartilage, rendered softer and more tardy in ossifying, by the effect of the disease upon its nutrition. That such a yielding does take place in this cartilage from disease and pressure is shown still more strikingly in another case in the Hunterian Museum (No. 3423.), in which it has bent outwards, instead of inwards, and thus is produced an elliptical distortion of the pelvis. This skeleton is from a young subject-, in which the pelvic bones had not yet become soldered together. The head and neck of the left femur are nearly destroyed by caries, whic h doubtless also extends to the acetabulum itself. Both the femurs are extremely flexed and adducted on the pelvis, and seem, espe- cially on the diseased side, to have, by the constancy of this position, pushed upwards and backwards the pubis, so as to cause a distinct bend at the cartilaginous cotyloid line of junction, and an elevation of the pubic symphysis. By this means, the acetabula are pushed outwards, and the superior pelvic- opening assumes an elliptical shape; though the cotylo-sacral arch is but slightly spread out, and the ischial tuberosities are normally placed. The lumbar curve and sacral pro- monotory deviate slightly towards the left side, and the bones are remarkably small and light, showing the prevalence of the rickety tendency. From these cases, it seems reasonable to draw the conclusion, that the softened infant pelvis does in a great many cases assume the cordiform shape, and that without any back- ward spinal curvature ; but, on the contrary, the case quoted by Naegele shows that ifeis co-existent with excessive forward curvature of the lumbar spine, such as would throw the weight of the body entirely in front of the vertically placed pelvic brim ; and thus, accord- ing to Dr. Murphy's view, of necessity, pro- duce the ovate and not the angular deformity. We may also conclude that when, by mecha- nical causes, the angular shape is impressed upon the softened infant pelvis, it will yield most readily and extensively at its weakest point — viz. the still cartilaginous line of ilio-pubic junction in the acetabulum ; and that, as in the instances now given, and indeed in all that I have myself examined, the shape of the angu- lar pelvis resulting from rickets in infancy is never rostrated, in the sense to which that expression is confined in the present article; but, that this form is usually seen only in the angularly deformed pelvis resulting from the mollities ossium of adults, and commenc- ing after the pelvis has attained its adult de- velopment and consolidation, when the bend most commonly takes place in the centre of the superior pubic ramus, which, in thick- ness, and, in some diseased conditions, as the analysis before given shows, in composition also, is the weakest point of the pelvic circle in the adult. This will, I think, be found a general and useful distinguishing mark between the angular pelvis resulting from rickets, and that of the adidt mollities ossium. Whether, on the other hand, the adult pel- vis, softened by mollities ossium, or the rickets of adults, ever assumes the ovate form of dis- tortion, is a question of supposition merely. 1 have not been able to find any recorded cases of such a result, though there is no evi- dent reason why this should not occur, under certain mechanical conditions. Rokitansky found that the ovate and hour-glass distortions are, almost without exception, the result of in- fantile rickets. Mechanism of the preceding Pel- vic Distortions.— In considering the forces which operate in producing the two principal varieties of pelvic distortion previously treated of, it is necessary carefully to separate those resulting from mechanical position, from those which arise from muscular action alone. In considering the former, it will be necessary as carefully to separate the idea of the line of gravity—i. e. a perpendicular line let fall from the centre of gravity— from that of the line of pressure, which must necessarily pass through the osseous supporting structures, whatever disposition they may have. The centre of gravity of the trunk itself is that which influences most considerably the form of the softened pelvis in the sitting as well as the upright position. This is placed by Weber in the transverse vertical plane of the spinal column, which here falls consi- derably in front of the vertebras, in the tho- racic cavity, at the level of the sterno-xiphoid articulation (see Jig. 122. a, a). In the most easy standing position, this centre of gravity is placed directly above that of the whole body, at the sacro-lumbar articu- lation (a, c) ; so that perpendicular lines let fall from each to the ground will exactly co- incide, and (in the well-made subject, after passing through the sacral promontory and the acetabula) fall between the feet as the basis of support. In the sitting posture, it falls a little posterior, between the ischial tu- berosities. To preserve the standing posture, it is