720 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. that which is derived from the chorion, im- portant modifications occur in the interior structures. Up to a certain period of gesta- tion, the chorion and its villi contain no blood-vessels. According to the author last quoted, blood-vessels first appear in these parts when the allantois reaches and applies itself to a certain portion of the interior surface of the chorion. The umbilical vessels then commu- nicate with the substance of the villi, and be- come continuous with loops in their interior. Those villi in which the blood-vessels do not undergo any further development, as the ovum increases in size, become more widely sepa- rated, and lose their importance in the oeco- nomy. The villi, again, in which vessels Conn, in connection with the umbilical vessels, in- crease in number, and undergo certain changes in the arrangement of their constituent ele- ments. As the blood-vessels increase in size, the cells diminish in number, but are always /bund surrounding the terminal loop of ves- sels in the situation of the germinal spot. The injections of Schrceder van der Kolk * show a profusion of capillaries within the villi as early as the third month. And at later periods of gestation, up to the sixth month, I have succeeded without difficulty in display- ing, by the aid of fine injections, such an abundant development of these vessels, as is exhibited in fig. 485. Before the end of ges- tation, however, the greater part or all of these fine capillaries have disappeared, and the vessels within the villi then show only the long tortuous varicose loops which Good- sir has so well described. Such are the principal modifications which normally take place during the development and growth of the foetal portion of the pla- centa. The changes occurring in the maternal portion, or that which is supplied by the de- cidua, are not less remarkable. Maternal portion. — Four principal stages may be observed in the formation of this por- tion of the placenta. The first stage is that in which the decidua constitutes a perfectly spherical chamber f surrounding the ovum, but having as yet no structural connection with it (fig. 486.). This is the condition of the ovum in the early part of the first month of gestation. The second stage is marked by the com- mencing attachment of the villi all round to the inner surface of the containing chamber, so that now the ovum becomes fixed, and can no longer be turned out, except by breaking off the villi, or drawing out their ends from the little pits, or anfractuosities, already de- scribed in the walls of the decidua, in which they have become embedded. At this period (latter half of the first month), the decidua forming the walls of this chamber is suffi- ciently firm to admit of dissection, and already there may be traced, upon its inner surface, * Loc. cit. pi. i.flg. 1. f For an account of the formation of the foetal chamber, and of the early steps in the construction of that portion of the placenta which belongs to the decidua, see p. 653. Fig. 486. Decidua at the beginning of gestation, exhibiting the fatal chamber in the first stage of its formation. The ovum, being at this time unattached, has dropped out of it. (After W. Hunter.) orifices communicating with canals in the de- cidua that lead into the uterine sinuses. The maternal blood already flows freely into the fcetal chamber, and, after passing everywhere among the villi, is returned into the uterine veins. Thus a temporary placenta is formed, which, as in Pachyderma'ta, Cetacea, &c, en- tirely surrounds the ovum (fig. 487.). The third stage is the most important. It marks the transition from the temporary to the permanent form of the placenta. Coinci- dently with the increased development of the villi on one side of the chorion, and their cor- responding arrest of growth on the opposite surface, there occurs an increase of the space between the decidua and the ovum on one side, and a corresponding decrease of it upon the opposite side. The increase is always on the side next the uterus, where the villi are most abundant, and the decrease upon the opposite surface, where they are fewest. And this change continues progressively, until, upon the bald side of the ovum, the* decidua rcflexa and the chorion come into so close contact that the interspace is obliterated, and the blood, which formerly flowed freely among the villi, is now no longer admitted to this part of the circumference of the ovum ; while, upon the side which is directed towards the uterus, a large space is left which now takes the form of a meniscus. In order more effec- tually to confine the blood within this limited space, an increased development of decidual cells now takes place, which pass off from the uterine walls, and attach themselves to the chorion all round the circumference of this space, and thus is formed the margin of the permanent placenta. During all this time, the ovum, by its growth, has been gradually rais- ing the decidua above and around it, just as the common integument becomes raised dur-