OVUM. [841 the only covering with which the ovarian ovum is provided at the time of its leaving the Graa- fian vesicle, excepting that which it retains for a time derived from the cells of the tunica granulosa in the proligerous disc. Von Baer indeed, from whose description the term pellu- cid area or zone has been borrowed, was not full)' aware of its consisting only of one thick membrane ; and more than once, both in the Epistola and in the Commentary upon it, expresses himself doubtfully as to whether this pellucid space or halo* might not be formed of an external envelope which he terms the cortical membrane, and of another situated within it. It is well known that when the mammi- ferous ovum has been fecundated, and arrives in the cavity of the uterus, and begins then rapidly to expand, it is covered by a mem- brane which soon undergoes great extension, and acquires a villous structure on its external surface, by which it may always be easily re- cognised. This villous envelope of the ute- rine ovum, universally now known as the chorion, is the product no doubt of changes which only occur in their completeness after fecundation, and as an accompaniment of embryonic development; but still as it ap- pears probable that the zona pellucida is in- timately connected with the first condition of the chorion, and as the first formation of the latter membrane is by many believed to take place independently of fecundation or foetal development, it is necessary for me to make some remarks in this place on the relations of the zona pellucida to the external cover- ing which the ovum obtains in the first periods of its residence within-the female passages. This is a subject on which embryological writers are by no means agreed, and several of them indeed have themselves changed their opinions in regard to it in the progress of their researches. Von Baer, the correctness of whose general views on the phenomena of development we have occasion to admire in almost every part of the subject of which he has treated, was at first of opinion that the chorion might arise in Mammalia from the outer of the two layers of which he at that time (though also doubt- ingly) conceived the external covering of the ovarian ovum to consist, and he looked upon this as a great difference or departure from analogy between the bird's egg and the ovum of the mammifer: but in his work on Deve- lopment-)-, published eight years later than the Epistola and Commentary, he states his convic- tion from his observations, that in some mam- miferous animals at least, such as the pig and sheep, the chorion is formed by external de- posit on the surface of the ovarian ovum du- ring its descent into the uterus, and therefore takes its origin more in analog)' with the ex- * Spatium pellucidum, halo vel peiipheria lu- cida. See Commentary on the Epistola, as trans- lated by Brescliet in his Repertoire, 1828, p. 52. f Beobachtung. und Reliexion. iiber Entvricke- lungsgescb. &c, Kbnigsberg, 1837, part ii. p. 185. ternal covering of the bird's egg. At the same time he confesses that he was not able to reconcile this view with what he had seen in the dog and rabbit. Valentin, in his Manual of the History of Development*, regarded it as most probable that the chorion is formed by the deposition and consolidation of an albuminous matter on the surface of the ovum during its descent through the first part of the Fallopian tubes; but though taking, as it appears, a perfectly correct view of this subject, he did not bring forward observations sufficient to establish the opinion which he bad founded chiefly on analogical considerations. We owe to Thomas Wharton Jones the first direct observation of the actual deposit of a layer of albuminous matter round the surface of the zona pellucida. But although Mr. Jones, in the observation which he made on the ovum of the rabbit within the Fallopian tubes on the third day after conception, was quite assured that a new structure had made its appearance in considerable thickness on the surface of the zona, yet he at first sup- posed that this might proceed from some change in the remains of the granular tunic which adhered to that membrane after it had left the Graafian follicle.f He afterwards, however, became aware of the source of this fallacy, and adopted the view that the mam- miferous ovum receives a superadded struc- ture, contributing to the formation of the chorion, in its descent through the tubes. In the first series of his Embryological Re- searches, Martin Barry described not only the zona pellucida as recognised by other ob- servers, but also a distinct vitelline membrane within it; and he conceived that the zona became afterwards the chorion. But in his second series he became aware, both from the statements of Wharton Jones and from his own observations, that a new deposit occurs in the rabbit's ovum ; and this new deposit he now regarded as " the true chorion." He retained, however, for a time his view of the separate existence of a vitelline membrane; and thus described articulately three mem- branes as belonging to the mammiferous ovum, viz., vitelline membrane, zona peilucida, and chorion.J The first membrane he believed to disappear previous to the period of full ma- turity : the two last he regarded as together the source of the chorion of a later stage. Bischoff' also had not been aware from his earliest observations that any new deposit occurred round the ovum of the rabbit in the tubes; and even after he had become ac- quainted with this fact, and had observed it himself, as he did not detect a similar deposit on the ovum of the dog, he adhered to the * Handbuch der Entwiek. &c. des Menschen, Berlin, 1835, pp. 38, 39. t On the First Changes in the Ova of theMam- mifera, in consequence of Impregnation, and on the Blode of Origin of the Chorion, in Phil. Trans. 1837, part. ii. p. 339. J See Phil. Trans, for 1839, p. 31G.