STOMACH AND INTESTINE. S64 zontal slit or fissure, as it enters this fold. Fig. 275. Ccecum inflated, dried, and opened, to exhibit the arrangement of its valve. a, termination of the ileum ; b, ascending colon ; c, caecum ; d, transverse constriction projecting into the caecum from its inner surface; e f, valve sepa- rating the small from the large intestine; e, its ho- rizontal ileo-colic lamina; /, its more oblique ileo- cecal lamina; g, the vermiform appendix of the caecum. Such a description at once explains the form of the valve: — how each of its seg- ments, for example, constitutes a crcscentic membrane, the plane of which meets that of its fellow at an acute angle, and the free edge of which is directed outwards ; — and how both end anteriorly and posteriorly in a commissure or fold, that gradually decreases in depth as it passes either forwards or back- wards round the intestine. As regards the details of its construction, each segment of the valve is chiefly formed by the prolongation of a corresponding por- tion of the circular muscular fibres of the ileum, together with a few proper to the large intestine. The assistance afforded to these by the attachment of the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres of the ileum, to the fixed margin of each segment, is well shown by the effect of dividing the latter structures. For after such an injury, mode- rate traction draws out the valve into a sur- face, which is directly continuous with the lower end of the small intestine; and at the same time converts its horizontal slit into a large elliptical aperture. The difference be- tween the ileo-caecal and ileo-colic portions consists chiefly in the fact, that the plane of the former is more oblique, and its margin more concave, than that of the latter. The mechanism of this valve may be easily deduced from its structure. In all states short of actual distention, the passive contraction of its muscular walls no doubt insures their contact, and shuts off the cavity of the ileum from that of the caecum. While any approach towards a more active dilatation of the large intestine — whether of the caecum, or colon — at once brings about a close apposition of the two portions of the valve. And what- ever aid may be given to this mutual apposi- tion of the surfaces of the valve by its own active muscular contraction during life, no- thing is more certain than that its closure is essentially independent of any such vital pro- cess. For the gradual and equable distention of the caecum with liquid in the dead subject can also produce this result. Nor is it difficult to understand how such a closure is effected. The passage of the con- tents of the large intestine, over either plane of the valve, presses it against the opposite one, so as at once to close its orifice. Be- sides this, the free margins of the valve form segments of a larger circle than its attached ones. Hence they are disproportionately tightened by the same distending force. In this way, the double curve of each lamina is soon reduced to a straight line, that brings it into exact apposition with its antagonist. So that, within all ordinary limits, the greater the dilating force, the more closely are the two lips of the valve applied to each other. The only valid exceptions to this rule may be found in those cases in which the ileum and caecum are filled simultaneously. Such a process of distention necessarily occurs in all cases of mechanical obstruction of the diges- tive canal below this valve; as a result of the downward flow of the contents of the small intestines. And since it obviously distends the aperture by the application of a counter- force from the side of the ileum, its mecha- nical action is so simple as to require no further explanation. Its effect may indeed be seen in the caecum, as usually inflated and dried.* The function of this valve therefore offers a complete contrast to that by which the stomach opens into the small intestine. For while it affords little or no obstacle to an onward transit of the contents of the canal, it resolutely bars the way to all regurgitation: — an action which we have already seen is exactly reversed by the pylorus. And even in the absence of information respecting the details of its active contraction, its structure entitles us to conjecture, that the greater part of its efficiency depends upon a passive, and therefore permanent mechanism; and not, as is the case with the pylorus, on an in- termittent (and vital) shortening of its mus- cular fibres. The use of the caecum is evidently that of forming a receptacle, in which the contents of the small intestine may sojourn for a certain time, before passing onwards into the colon. * Hence it is scarcely a superfluous caution to add, that in examining such a preparation we ought always to recollect, that the patulous orifice thus seen is in reality an abnormal one, which does not illustrate the mechanism of the valve iu the healthy living body.