575 OVARY—(Abnormal Anatomy). the parenchyma, or to the walls of particular follicles, or may affect all these parts together. Hypera?mia of particular follicles, with con- siderable enlargement of the sac and effusion of blood into the cavity of the follicle, is not unfrequently observed as an abnormal condi- tion. But hyperemia of single follicles with effusion of blood into the cavity has been already described, as being also a natural state of the Graafian follicle, which is preparing for dehiscence and discharge of an ovum.* It may be asked, therefore, in what respect does the normal differ from the abnormal state, and by what characteristics may the one be distinguished from the other ? It appears to me that Rokitansky, in the account which he has given of hyperaemia of the Graafian follicle f, has included under one head both the natural and the morbid condition ; for his description will very well apply to the rising follicle, in its second stage, when the escape of blood into the cavity has been shown to be a normal, and in some animals a constant occurrence. The presence, therefore, of blood within the follicle, for the reasons al- ready fully given (p.556.), must not be regarded as necessarily affording evidence of a morbid state. There are, however, certain pecu- liarities in the condition of the unhealthy fol- licle, by which it may be distinguished from that which is natural. The natural follicle, when preparing for dehiscence, is always near the surface, and often projects considerably above the level of the ovary ( fig.380.). Its coats are unequally thick ; the thinnest portion being always found at the most prominent point of the follicle. There is considerable vascularity about this point, plainly visible externally, and here the process of attenuation and ab- sorption continues to be progressive until the sac spontaneously ruptures. The walls of the follicle are at this stage of a bright yellow colour. The liquor folliculi is either clear and limpid or intermixed with blood, or the centre of the sac is filled by a coagulum, which is at first bright red, and afterwards becomes pale, and at length nearly white. The coagulum may adhere to the walls, and undergo fibrillation and subsequent conversion into a solid body, or into a dense white membrane, or it may be rapidly absorbed. On the other hand, the morbid follicle, al- though it may not exceed nor even equal in size that which is passing through its normal changes, may yet be distinguished by many characters which are the converse of those just described. The morbid follicle is often not peripheral, but is more or less central in its position in the ovary. It may attain to the size of £ or ^ of the ovary, without ne- cessarily causing any distinct prominence above the surface (especially when occurring singly). The walls are equally thick, and exhibit at no part any evidence of attenuation or absorp- tion. No preparation for rupture is indicated externally by any peculiar arrangement of ves- * P. 556. t Manual of Pathological Anatomy. Sydenham Society. Vol. ii. p. 328. sel, or by any marked increase of vascularity. The walls do not exhibit the remarkable yellow colour nor the cerebral foldings characteristic of the advancing normal ovisac, but the tis- sues of which they are composed are simply those of the undeveloped Graafian follicle. The contents of the sac are neither the clear liquori folliculi, nor the bright clot, nor the decolorised fibrin, but generally a collection of dark coffee-ground matter, resulting from the admixture of a quantity of decomposing blood- corpuscles and fragments of membrana gra- nulosa intermixed with a dirty fluid. On washing out these contents, the walls of the cyst, if the ovary has been injected, are seen to carrynumerous vessels, irregularly arranged, but never presenting that rich network of capillaries which are visible after a successful injection of a healthy ovisac progressing to- wards rupture, especially in those cases where the quantity of yellow oil is not so great as to obscure these vessels altogether. By these characteristics the morbid ovisacs may generally he distinguished from those which are healthy. There is enough of simi- larity between them to prove their identity of origin, and enough of dissimilarity to show their divergence from a common starting point; the healthy follicle proceeding onward through a course of different changes, which have been already fully described ; the morbid follicle exhibiting an apparently unlimited power of growth and deformity, such as will be pre- sently more fully noticed. Fig. 392. exhibits the morbid follicle in one of its earliest stages of growth. It may be con- trasted with figs. 381. and 385., for the purpose of showing the points of difference which have just been described. Injfg. 392. the morbid follicle occurs as a single cyst in the midst of Fig. 392. Ovary containing a morbidly distended Graafian follicle in an incipient stage. The rest of the organ is healthy. {Ad Nat.) otherwise healthy tissues. Although occupy- ing more than ^ of the entire ovary, it scarcely disturbs the even outline of that organ. Its coats are of uniform thickness throughout. There is no attenuation nor preparation for dehiscence at any particular spot, nor external sign of increased vascularity in one point. But the walls of the follicle contain nume- rous vessels, distributed nearly equally over their surface. The cavity is filled with loose flocculi of a dark chocolate colour, consisting of decomposing blood clot mixed with patches