REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 228 upon their upper surface theeas and paraphyses like those of a Peziza. In other genera M M. Tulasne found that the ascophorous receptacles are preceded by capsules which produce, instead of the linear sporules above mentioned, cylindrical spores of a much larger size, each of which is supported at the extremity of a pedicle of its own. 42. Thus in the plants under consideration we find that, without counting the sporules which are produced by filaments rising directly from the stroma, there are no less than three varieties of spore-like structures which can be easily distinguished from each other. All of these may be produced upon the same, individual, and one instance is recorded in which a cupule of a Peziza was found, which bore among the normal thecae, para- physes with innumerable, slender, linear sporules at their extremities. As has been already hinted, the capsules which contain acrogenous spores, have been hitherto con- sidered as belonging to genera distinct from those represented by the ascophorous recep- tacles with which they were found associated. The genus Cytispora is characterised by a structure which corresponds completely with that of the capsules described above in Rhytisma ; and other genera as e. g. Sporocadus have a similar relation to the capsules, containing the larger variety of pedunculated, cylindrical spores. 43. In order to facilitate the description of these various structures, a nomenclature has been devised by MM. Tulasne, which may be adopted with advantage. The minute, linear sporules, which are produced at the extremities of branched filaments, like the paraphyses of Sphceria, are called spermatia. The cylindrical bodies of much larger size, which are borne each at the extremity of a stipitiform cell, are named stylospores; while the term spore is reserved to those which are formed in the interior of a theca. 43. bis. In a third " Memoire " which has appeared since the above paragraphs went to press, MM. Tulasne have further prosecuted their researches on this interesting subject. The following is an abstract of their account of the development of a Pyrenomyces (Ce- nangium), which inhabits the bark of dead branches of the black alder (Rhamnus Fran- gula). The plant, in its natural position, is represented mfig. 148. The mycelium ramifies, in all directions, in the substance of the inner bark of the dead branch. From its filaments there spring, at irregular intervals, the re- ceptacles, which as they develope, burst through the outer bark and epidermis and exhibit the various forms represented. The simplest variety^g. 148.«) resembles in struc- ture the organ described in $ 49. as occurring in Scutula. In form, it is rounded, but at the same time somewhat conical. The stylo- spores^, (Jig. 149. a) which it contains, are Fig. 149. «, group of stylospores, with a fragment of the wall of the receptacle in which they are enclosed; b, similar group of spermatia. About 300 diam. curved, crescentic bodies, supported on pedi- cles, which have an arrangement perfectly similar to that observed in Scutula. The receptacles or cupules in which thecas are produced are deserving of great attention. In the early condition, their form is cyathoid (Jig. 148. c), and they resemble those de- scribed (§ 41.) in Rhytisma. They contain at this time, innumerable spermatia (fig. 149. b), these being supported on filaments which spring from the inner surface of the cup, as well as of its margin. As the organ grows, it expands, and finally becomes discoid (Jig. 148. b), when it possesses the structure Fie. 150. Part of a dead branch of Rhamnus Frangula, with receptacles of Cenanghim. ( Slightly magnified') Vertical section of discoid receptacle of Cenangium, about 300 diam.