STOMACH AND INTESTINE. The mucous membrane in the neighbour- hood of the ulcer is sometimes a little swollen]: and the immediate margin of the excavation is often indurated and raised above the level of the adjacent mucous surface. But it offers no other appearances worth mentioning as indicative of inflammatory reaction in the con- tiguous tissues. The mode in which the ulcer penetrates the various tissues is somewhat characteristic. The smooth, sharp and vertical edge by which it passes through the mucous mem- brane, and reaches the submucous tissue, is here exchanged for a less regular one ; which forms a circle of smaller diameter than the opening in the mucous coat. In like manner, when the ulcer has gradually eaten its way through the muscular coat, it reaches the peritoneal coat, at a point which about occu- pies the centre of this smaller circle. Hence, the whole depth of the ulcer forms a cone ; the base of which is at the free or internal surface of the stomach, while its apex occupies the peritoneum. The latter membrane is scarcely ever destroyed by mere ulceration, except in those instances in which it has previously been strengthened and defended by an exsudation of lymph. Where this has not been deposited, the peritoneum becomes converted into a yellow slough ; the rupture or detachment of which gives rise to perforation of the sto- mach, and allows its contents to escape into the abdominal cavity. The process by which the gastric ulcer ori- ginates is at present unknown. Rokitansky thinks it probably begins as a hasmorrhagic erosion, or a circumscribed slough ; and that it gradually extends by its basis throwing off a succession of laminated sloughs, or exfolia- tions. Some such process he has indeed observed in a few instances. On the other hand, if we may venture to regard that ulcer of the duodenum which sometimes occurs in severe burns, as analogous to the gastric ulcer, we should probably find reason for con- cluding, that the ulcerative process may some- times occur, without being preceded by hae- morrhage, sloughing, or any appreciable ex- sudation, in the situation of the affected part.* The cicatrization of such ulcers may take place at almost any stage of their course. The precise details of its occurrence vary with the amount of destruction which has preceded it. Where the destructive process has been limited to the mucous membrane, there is little more than a condensation and thicken- ing of the subjacent areolar tissue ; which ul- timately forms a scar that has a shape similar to the ulcer. But where the muscular coat has been partially destroyed, its remaining la- mina, and the subjacent peritoneum, are gene- * See Pathological Transactions, vol. i. p. 258, for an instance brought forward by Mr. Prescott Hewett; where one of these ulcers seemed to be commencing as " a slight depression in the surface of the mucous membrane, which in their neigh- bourhood presented some traces of increased vascularity." Siip2>. rally more or less folded or crumpled up, so as to bring the margins of the ulcer nearer to each other. Hence the resulting cicatrix has a much more irregular form ; and often con- tracts into a kind of thickened cord, with radiating extremities, which seriously affects the shape and diameter of the whole organ. The amount of contraction thus im pressed upon the stomach varies, other things being equal, with the size and shape of the ulcer. The extension of the ulcerative process would always end in perforation, were it not this event is, in most instances, to some extent guarded against by the occurrence of adhe- sion. From what has been already stated, it is evidently very doubtful whether the ulcer originates in an inflammatory state. And in many cases, it certainly seems devoid of all the ordinary appearances of inflammation during its progress. But it is often accom- panied, not only by swelling and induration of its mucous margin, but by exsudation and hardening at its base, and by adhesive inflam- mation of the neighbouring tissues. Thus the peritoneal coat at the bottom of the ulcer becomes inflamed, and pours out upon its free surface a stratum of coagulable lymph ; by means of which the stomach may become united to any adjacent viscus. In this man- ner the liver above the organ, or the pan- creas behind it, may become attached to the outer surface of the stomach, at a point cor- responding to the situation of the ulcer in its interior. But the more mobile diaphragm and anterior wall of the belly are less fre- quently the seat of such adhesions. The adhesion does not, however, replace the loss of substance in the gastric coats. And hence, in many of these cases (just as in adherent wounds of the stomach, attended with much loss of its parietes) the mucous membrane around the edges of the ulcer becomes prolapsed and protruded into it ; and thus comes into contact with the surface of the adhesion at its base. The substance of the adhesion itself may either ultimately become converted into a cicatrix : or it may be gra- dually drawn out by the constant traction which the stomach exercises ; so as to form a hollow funnel-shaped tube, that is lined by a smooth surface having the appearance of a serous membrane. The efficiency of the adhesion, as a means of protection against perforation, varies with its situation, and still more with its structure. Where it is a mere thickening of a delicate fibrous network by inflammatory lymph, as is generally the case when it occupies the omentum, it is of little avail in this respect. While where the exsudation possesses a fibro- cartilaginous character, such as is often seen in the adhesions which unite the stomach with the liver, it forms a much more efficient protection against such an event. But in many instances, a continuance or renewal of the ulcerative process attacks and destroys the new tissue itself: and either penetrates the viscus (pancreas, liver, or spleen) E E