PLACENTA — (Development). 719 explain the exact relations of this structure to the villi, within the placenta. All the extre- mities of the villi which are sufficiently long to reach across the placenta from the chorion to the opposite surface formed by the decidua, become firmly attached to the inner side of the latter. This attachment takes place not by any actual perforation of the decidua, but by the ends of the villi being simply inserted, in an early stage of the formation of the pla- centa, into little shallow pits or cup-like de- pressions in the decidual substance, into which they are received, and from which they may be withdrawn.* In other cases, the ends of the villi become blended with the decidua, to which they are apparently fixed, by a growth of decidual cells. These attachments are for the purpose of giving strength to the placenta, and of mechanically supporting the villi. They take place not only between the ends of the villi and the decidua forming the roof of the placenta, but also wherever decidua and villi come into contact. Hence similar attachments are also formed between the villi and the septa or dissepiments {Jig. 484. d p), which divide its substance into separate lobes. Upon the floor also of the placenta all round the margin, where the decidua turns downwards and inwards to become united with the chorion, and to form the placental margin, the decidua is found for a short distance attached to the bases of the villi. And this arrangement gives to the parts an appearance as if the decidua had been here penetrated by the villi, but one which is actu- ally occasioned by the former having, in the course of growth, become extended around the roots of the latter long after these were first formed. Occasionally also decidual cells may be found upon the surface of villi, con- necting together their extremities, or forming here and there rough irregular belts upon their stems. Termination of the maternal vessels. — No extension of the maternal blood-vessels into the substance of the placenta among or be- tween the villi, can be demonstrated to take place. So far as anatomical evidence goes, the maternal vessels all terminate at once and abruptly upon the inner surface of the decidua. The curling arteries, after passing from the muscular coat of the uterus, obliquely for the most part, through the layer of decidua which forms the roof of the placenta, open directly into the interior of the latter; while the veins commence by equally abrupt openings which * The difficulty of understanding the early steps in the construction of the placenta has arisen from the belief commonly prevalent, that the ovum on first reaching the uterus remains upon the outside of the decidua, and that the villi of the chorion penetrate its substance or enter the uterine glands in order to form the placenta. But there is no actual penetration of the decidua at any period, except that which consists in the entire ovum gaining a situation in the interior of this membrane shortly after its arrival in the uterus. The tips of the villi at a certain stage, as above described, be- come superficially imbedded in the walls of the fcetal chamber, which is formed of decidua; but this is not a penetration of the decidua, as commonly understood, but only a means of fixing the ovum. conduct through the decidual layer to the venous sinuses in the uterine walls. These venous orifices occupy three situations. The first and most numerous are scattered over the inner side of the general layer of decidua which constitutes the upper boundary of the placenta ; the second form openings upon the sides of the decidual prolongations or dissepi- ments, which separate the lobes from each other ; while the third lead directly into the interrupted channel in the margin, termed the circular sinus. Development of the placenta. — The early steps in the formation of the placenta have been described in the account which has been already given of the development of the deci- dua during gestation (p. 653.). These first steps consist in the formation out of the deci- dua of a perfectly spherical chamber, in the centre of which lies the impregnated ovum. The surface of the ovum is at this time covered everywhere by short club-like villi of equal size. The extremities of these villi are simply in contact with, but are not as yet attached to the walls of the containing cham- ber. Subsequently both the villi and the de- cidua forming the fcetal chamber undergo con- siderable metamorphoses. Certain portions of these become intimately united, in order to form the placenta ; while other portions suffer retrogression, and take no part in its construc- tion. The following are the principal features in these metamorphoses. Foetal portion. — The surface of the ovum does not long retain the peculiarity just men- tioned, of being equally covered by villi. Dur- ing the second month at least, if not earlier, those villi on the side furthest from the uterus cease to grow, and in consequence of the increasing expansion of the ovum become more widely scattered over this part of its surface, while those nearest to the uterus rapidly increase in size and extent, so that this portion of the ovum soon exhibits a pro- fuse growth of villous processes, which send out their ramifications in all directions. According to Professor Goodsir, the deve- lopment and growth of the villi proceed from the groups of cells already described as occu- pying their bulbous extremities. These swell- ings on the sides and ends of the villi are their germinal spots, and are the active agents in the formation of these parts. The villus elongates by the addition of cells to its extre- mity, the cells passing off from the germinal spot, and the spot receding on the extremity of the villus, as the latter elongates by the additions which it receives from it. As the villi increase in size, their strength is gradually augmented by the conversion of the membrane and cells forming their stems and larger branches into a tough white fibrous texture ; while frequently, towards the end of gestation, calcification is observed to begin within the finer villi, and to proceed sometimes to so great an extent that a considerable num- ber of them become filled up and obliterated by solid matter. While these changes are going on in the outer portion of the villi, or