PELVIS. 177 These are represented in Man and Mam- malia generally by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and appear to be ossified by extension from the epiphysis of the ischiadic tuberosity, and from the ischiadic spine. In Birds, they constitute an important element of the pelvis, and are separated, more or less, from the ischium and sacrum by a faintly marked suture, more evident, however, at the sacral extremity. Taken in a scientific point of view they represent two additional pelvic rib shafts, or pleurapophyses, of the two last sacral vertebrae, and are implanted on the sacrum, in the human pelvis, in the site of the two lower lateral epiphysial plates of that bone, exactly as the ilia are articulated upon the three upper. Their extension to the coccyx would also seem to connect them with the elements of the first coccygeal vertebras ; — and their attachment to the ischia would be, in this point of view, a repetition of the kind of union of the latter bones with the descending pubic rami, as the cartilages of the false ribs are connected consecutively to each other in the thorax. The obturator and sacro-sciatic foramina, considered in this light, constitute simply consecutive and enlarged interchondral and intercostal spaces respectively ; the lesser sa- cro-sciatic foramen becoming, in the Sloths, Bats, and Birds, entirely obliterated. This manner of viewing them explains the ap- parently indifferent way in which the boun- daries of these openings, especially the ob- turator, are left incompleted, or entirely obliterated, in Birds and Reptiles. The cotyloid notch may be thus considered as the commencement of the obturator separation, and the formation of two obturator open- ings, as in the Ostrich, may be readily ex- plained. The obturator membrane may also be thus related to the anterior intercostal aponeuroses, and the membranous expansion of the upper border of the great sciatic ligaments (before mentioned as connected with the fasciae cover- ing the internal obturator and pyriformes mus- cles), to the posterior intercostal ligaments. The homologues of the ligaments of the sacro-iliac articulations are readily found in those connecting the head, neck, and tubercles of the thoracic ribs to the vertebrae. The anterior and superior sacro-iliac ligaments are evidently repetitions of the anterior or stel- late costo-vertebral; the superficial fibres of the posterior sacro-iliac, repetitions of the posterior costo-transverse; the deep fibres, or inter- osseous sacro-iliac, of the middle or interosseous costo-transverse ; and the i/io-lumbar and lumbo- sacral ligaments, of the oblique or an'crior costo- transverse ligaments of the ribs. The connec- tion of the last-named ligament with the trans- verse process of the vertebra above, and with the iliac crest below, is very similar to the oblique direction and attachments of the homologous costo-transverse. The ossifica- tion of these ligaments in Sloths, Bats, and especially in Birds, gives additional support to their otherwise feebly connected pelves. The-ligaments of the pubic symphysis find Swpp, easily their homologues in the chond.ro-sterna? ligaments. The anterior and posterior peripheral inter-pubic ligaments are repetitions of the similarly placed and constituted chondro- sternal, which, like them, connect the haema- pophyses together across the interposed elements, as well as directly to the endo- sternal bones and inter-pubic fibro-cartilage. The superior pubic ligament finds its homo- logue in the inter-clavicular, and the sub-pubic, in the chondro-xiphoid and inter chondral fibres. It would be easy also to point out the mus- cular homologues of the two regions; but space will not permit more than to mention the evident ones of the external and internal oblique muscles with the similarly placed and directed intercostals; of the levator ani with the diaphragm; and of the pyriformes with the psoce muscles. The internal obturator muscles would represent the iriangidaris sterni and transversa/is abdominis; and the external, the lesser pectoral and external oblique muscles. The homologues of the pelvic bones with those of the shoulder are best seen in the Rep- tiles. According to Duges, the pelvis of the Salamander has a close resemblance to the shoulder of the Cameleon. The ilium is generally considered to be the homologue of the scapula; the pubis, of the clavicle ; and the ischium, of the coracoid bone. Meckel considers the body of the ischium to represent the spine of the scapula; while, in the opinion of Oken, the pubis represents the acromion process, and the marsupial bones the clavicles. In the shoulder of the Cameleon, the sca- pula is longer even than the ilium, and the furcular clavicles and coracoids are ank\losed together like the ischium and pubis. And, in the pelvis of the Crocodile, we have seen that the ischium excludes the pubis from the formation of the acetabulum by an apophysis which overhangs that cavity, somewhat as the human coracoid process intervenes between the glenoid cavity and the clavicle. The ascending branch of the ischium may, further, be taken to represent the cpicoracoid bones of the Monotremes, Lizards, Batrachians, and some Fishes, as the Cod, Carp, and Perch, In the Cock-fish, Snipe-fish, and Lancet-fish, these bones are joined in a kind of symphysis, forming an independent arch behind the sca- pular arch. And those bones of the scapular arch oi the Fish, which are considered by Owen to be the coracoids, (but by Meckel, Agassiz, Geof- froy, and Spix to be clavicles,') unite also in a median symphysis, presenting an homologous affinity to the ischial symphysis seen in the Reptiles,—the whole of these symphysial ele- ments being represented, combined, by the elongated ischio-pubic symphysis in many Mammalians, but especially in that, of the Marsupials and Monotremes. (John Wood.) Bibliography. — Descriptive Anatomy, by Quain, Cruvel/tier, and Meckel. Ward, on the Bones. J'^l/is's Demonstrations. John James IFatts, Ana- tomico-Chirurgical View of the Male and Female Pelvis. Encyclopedic Anatomique — Jourdan's N