UTERUS — (Normal Anatomv). 633 largest portion, while in the cervix the fibrous element predominates, and the muscular fibre is proportionally less abundant. Course of the muscular fibres. — Regarding the precise plan of arrangement of the consti- tuent tissues of the middle uterine coat, and especially of its muscular element, in the unimpregnated state, numerous microscopic examinations have satisfied me that it is not possible to do more than to indicate these in a very general manner. Mme. Boivin at- tempted to describe the special course of the muscular fibres in the unimpregnated organ; but she appears to have abandoned the at- tempt alter giving an account of what is seen upon the surface of the organ when the peri- toneum has been stripped off after prolonged maceration. More recently the course of these fibres has been described by Kdlliker, Gerlach, and others, in the deeper seated, as well as in the superficial layers. In investigating this part of the subject it appears to me that a sufficient distinction has not been made between the course of the in- dividual fibres, and the arrangement of the lamina: or bundles into which they are col- lected, for these are by no means necessarily the same. According to my observations the contrac- tile fibre-cells are not distributed in equal pro- portions through all parts of the muscular coat, nor are they found everywhere in the same condition. It has been already stated, that no strict line of demarcation is discern- ible by the microscope between the three several coats, of which the uterus is said to consist. And this is particularly the case in respect of the muscular fibres which permeate all of them. In the so-called mucous mem- brane the muscular fibre-cells are loosely ar- ranged in an amorphous tissue, in which they lie embedded, intermixed with the elementary nuclear corpuscles, constituting their embry- onic condition. Here the fibre-cells form bundles, situated between the ramified canals or utricular glands of the uterus, and take a direction more or less oblique or perpendicular with regard to the inner uterine surface. But at the level of the base of the uterine follicles, where the proper muscular coat is considered to begin, and the mucous membrane to termi- nate, the contractile fibre-cells assume a dif- ferent direction and arrangement. Here at once they begin to exhibit a certain order of stratification, the strata being very closely su- perimposed, and arranged for the most part in such a manner as to he parallel with the walls of the uterine cavity, which is therefore sur- rounded by them. These strata exhibit certain differences of composition and arrangement sufficient, for the sake of description at least, to justify an artificial division of them into three orders. The innermost of these may be termed the dense muscular strata. They commence im- mediately external to the mucous membrane, and extend outwardly through about half or two thirds of the thickness of the muscular coat. When preparations that have been preserved in weak spirit, or those that have been finely injected, are examined by the naked eye, or with a hand lens, a peculiar mottled appear- ance is presented by sections of this part, Fig. 435. Thin section of a portion of the uterine watts, com- mencing from the peritoneum and extending inwards, showing the irregular course of the strata o f uterine fitire, and the divided vessels between them. (Ad Nat.) caused by the intermixture of numerous mi- nute white lines ramifying within a darker substance, and dividing it into a multitude of small lozenge-shaped spaces. The whiter lines mark the course of the finer uterine vessels, together with the bundles of white fibrous tissue which accompany them. The browner lozenge-shaped spaces consist of the fusiform contractile fibre-cells, united together by amorphous tissue into short bundles, which by their superposition constitute the lamina? just mentioned. When horizontal sections are made of this portion of the muscular coat, such as are represented in fig. 428., these bundles or strata are seen to be arranged in a concentric manner, forming interrupted circles surrounding the uterine cavity. But this ap- pearance must not be regarded as indicative of any corresponding direction of the muscu- lar fibre-cells, within these bundles or lami- na?, for all appearance of a concentric plan, as regards the fibres, at once vanishes under the use of the microscope. Fig. 436., representing a fine section taken from the inner muscular lamina?, serves to exhibit the mode in which the contractile fibre-cells are arranged in this portion of the uterine walls. The individual fibres and em- bryonic corpuscles are imbedded in an amor- phous substance (the unformed connective tissue already described), by which they are aggregated together, so as to form bundles and lamina?. In these strata the fibre-cells appear to remain distinct, and to be separated from each other by a distance not greater usually than their own diameters.