PELVIS. 191 diploe was obliterated, the Haversian canals enormously enlarged, and the osseous cor- puscles {lacunas) diminished in quantity. From an analysis made by Dr. Leeson, the fresh bone contained,—in 100 parts ; animal matter, 18*75; water, 52*08; phosphate and car- bonate of lime, 29-17 parts. The grumous medullary matter contained,—in 100 parts ; animal matter, 24*78 ; water, 73*39; and phosphate and carbonate of lime, 1*83 parts. Under the microscope, Rainey found many granular, roundish bodies, about the size of blood corpuscles, and some fat globules ;— Simon, in a different part, could find no new or mature cell formations, but plenty of cyto- blasts, and a few young fat cells. Mr. Curling considers the softening of mol- lifies ossium to be eccentric; i. e., to commence in the centre of the bone, and pass outwards, affecting first the denser parts, and then the areolar extremities of the bone. He looks upon it as the result of defective nutrition, and that both the constituents waste in nearly equal ratio throughout. This author remarks that the pains always precede fracture or dis- tortion, and are not the result of these condi- tions. In one case, he observed copious sweats and salivation ; in another, a foetid unctuous exudation from the hands and feet; in a third, foetid perspiration ; in a fourth case, that of an old woman of seventy, who had been bedridden for four years from para- plegin, there were no deposits in the urine. The pelvic bones might be cut with a knife, but the ribs and vertebrae were less affected. The enlarged cavities and areola? were filled with red patches, resulting from injected vessels, and an oily medulla.* Rokitansky gives as a characteristic of one form of mollities ossium (to which he applies the names of'"osteo-malachia" or "rhachitismus adultorum"), that it affects principally the bones of the trunk, those of the extremities being affected in a subordinate degree ; that it occurs especially in childbed women, and is often associated with cancer of the internal organs. This eminent pathologist also states that, in this disease, the bony corpuscles (lacuna) are found empty, and. without canaUculi; that the lamellar structure is also lost, and the structure satured with fat. The extract ob- tained by boiling differs, both from chon- drine and from the normal animal matter of bone, a circumstance which he considers to be the most remarkable characteristic of the disease. He states further, that this form of the disease is painful, malignant, and has never been cured. In some cases, the muscles were in a state of fatty degeneration. Mr. Dalrymple concludes, from microsco- pical observations of one variety of mollities ossium, that it was a simple fungoid,malignant condition of bone. He found the areolar spaces enlarged by the absorption of their partitions, and great increase in the vascu- larity of the lining membrane. The "lacuna;" were also enlarged, and the " canaliculi" con- * Mod. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p. 300. siderably shortened, in the parts most affected. The red, grumous matter contained in the cavities, exhibited a large quantity of blood corpuscles, together with numerous nucleated and nuclear cells, with many cytoblasts, and some few caudate cells. Many oil globules and fat cells were also present. He con- siders the disease to differ from malignant osteo-sarcoma, in there being no deposit of new bone, and that the caudate cells, instead of increasing, become disintegrated, resolved into granular matter and oil globules, and finally dissolved.* Professor Paget considers, that there are two kinds of mollities ossium, in one of which he places the Rhachitismus adultorum, described by Rokitansky, as well as that just quoted from Mr. Dalrymple, where the bones are re- duced to a soft, flexible and cartilaginous con- dition simply. In the other variety, which he considers to result, like fragilitas ossium, from fatly degeneration of bone, he would place all the cases which have occurred in this country, including that of Mr. Solly's before described. Of the former variety, this patho- logist has never seen a specimen, and he does not, apparently, consider it either a malignant or a frequent condition of the bones. His observations have led him to conclude that the grumous contents of the bony cylinder in this disease, of whatever hue—yellow, pink, crimson or dark red —■ are composed of dis- guised fat. In part of a femur presented to the Hunterian Museum by Mr. Tamplin, he found free oil globules in large quantity, fat cells filled with oil, or empty, collapsed, and rolled up, and crystals of margarine contained in or without the fat cells. The colour, w hich was yellow, pink and crimson, was owing to the hue of the oil globules, nuclei anil granules of the collapsed fat cells. There was no excess of blood corpuscles whatever. In a portion of a femur presented by Mr. How- ship, there was left, after boiling, only a small quantity of white crystalline matter, f John Hunter remarked, in a case of mol- lities ossium, described by Goodwin in the Med. Obscrv. and Inquiries, that the bony structures were spongy, deprived of their earthy matter, and so soaked in soft fat as to resemble a fatty tumour. In the pelvic bones of a female past the middle age, affected with the rostrated variety of angular deformity, I found, on making sections, a large quantity of a yellowish tatty matter contained in the areolar structure. This was particularly the case, also, in the head and neck of the femur, which even after long maceration, hail entirely a smooth and greasy section. On applying heat to various portions of these bones, in order to ascertain the proportion of earthy constituents, they ignited and burnt with a copious blueish, fatty flame, with much smoke, and continued to burn freely till all the fatty matter was ex- hausted. The bones, which were very light, * Dub. Jour. vol. ii. 1846. + Lectures on Nutrition, Bled. Gaz., 1847, p. 234.