PELVIS. 197 o 3 will have a tendency to become flattened antero-posteriorly, by the sinking of the pubic arch, at the 'same time that the traction of the femurs and muscles of the lower extremi- ties outwards will tend to separate the aceta- bula and increase the transverse diameters. This I apprehend to be the commencement of the elliptical pelvic deformity, which occurs in the majority of the softened pelves of infants, whose most frequent and long-continued po- sition is the dorsal recumbent. The angles of the pelvis with the spine will also have a tendency in this posture to become in- creased by the weight of the inferior extremi- ties. If the softening be great, and the position long-continued, the symphysis pubis would also sink, producing the hour-glass form of pelvis; a disposition which would be increased by the traction of the levator ani and weight of the bladder. There would also be a tendency to flattening of the sacrum. In lying upon the side, on the other hand, there is a pressure, through the trochanters, upon the acetabula, which, if long and fre- quently-accustomed, will cause the lateral pelvic arches to yield and bend inwards at the cotyloid line of junction, in children as yet unossified, and produce the first bend or tendency to the angular deformity. The effect of these first impressions are, as Dr. Ramsbotham observes, illustrated by making an elbow in a piece of wire subjected to pressure at each extremity. In the unde- veloped pelvis also, the facility with which these impressions are made upon the pubic tie is rendered greater by the greater tardiness of its ossification than in the other innomi- nate pieces. In some instances, pelves seem to have been impressed in this manner on one side only, so that the two sides present an approach to the two different varieties of de- formity, as will be presently alluded to. In the sitting and standing positions, a more powerful distorting influence is brought into play—viz. the pressure of the weight of the body on the softened pelvic arches. The silting posture, when the elliptical form has already been impressed upon the pelvis, will still further tend to separate the acetabula by the starting outwards of the lower extremities of the ischio-sacral arch under the pressure of the weight of the trunk on the sacrum ; and thus the separation of the tuberosities, the enlargement of the transverse diameter of the outlet, and the spreading out of the sub- pubic arch take place. At the same time the sacral promontory sinks into the pelvis under the weight of the trunk, while the lower part of the sacrum is kept forwards by the sciatic ligaments, so that a bend takes place in the middle of the bone. This bend will be still further increased by the divergence of the ischial tuberosities, permitting the weight of the spine to be brought to bear upon the coccyx and lower end of the sacrum and against the sitting surface. The total direc- tion of the pressure on the ischial tuberosities being upwards and backwards, the curve of the ischio-sacral arch (coinciding with that of the cotylo-sacral at the top of the sciatic notch) takes [dace in that direction, and in- creases the acuteness of the C-like curve. These effects upon the sacrum and ilia, and pelvis generally, will be increased by the action of the powerful erector spin;e muscles, and psoas and iliacus muscles, exer- cised in keeping the trunk erect upon the pelvic lever (see Jig. 122 e, c d). These muscles have, in addition, much influence in shortening the spinal column itself, already bending under the weight of the body, and,— following the general tendency of elongated substances yielding to pressure at both ends to twist laterally,—the lumbar curve and sacral promontory become placed on one side the median line. This tendency, from reasons before explained, is generally to the left. Under the increased inclination of the pelvic angle, the abdominal muscles will tend to draw the flattened pubes upwards still nearer the sacral promontory, diminishing the con- jugate diameter. In extreme deformity, the iliac wings are pressed still further outwards and everted by the pressure of the lower ribs resting upon them, as we have observed in one of the detailed examples. But when the lateral pelvic arches are al- ready impressed with the angular deformity, the sitting posture has the effect of merely increasing the inward bend, and approximat- ing the acetabula and scatic tuberosities to the sacrum, pressed down by the superin- cumbent weight. Dr. Rigby mentions that frequent riding on horseback at an early age will produce contraction of the inferior outlet, even in the healthy pelvis, and that the females of those American nations who ride much bear few children, and are often three or four days in severe labour. In certain cases, in which the acetabulum on one side only has been pressed inwards by the constant use of the lateral recumbent po- sition, or in which the centre of gravity of the trunk has been permanently shifted to one side by the spinal bend, a habit is acquired of sitting more upon one ischial tuberosity thar the other. This unequal pressure produces inequality of distortion, and presses the tu- berosity and acetabulum of that side inwards, while the opposite one presents the usual di- vergence of the elliptical distortion. This effect is also contributed to in like manner, under the same circumstances, in the standing position, by the pressure being greater and more frequent upon one femur than the other ; and thus we have produced a sort of oblique deformity, of which 1 have seen se vera! specimens. In the Museum of King's College are three skeletons, all presenting more or less a ten- dency to this peculiar modification of the ovate deformity. In the Hunterian Museum is another, in an adult female skeleton, still more marked. It is somewhat remarkable that, in all these examples, the trunk is bent towards the right side, and the lumbar curve and sacral projection towards the left; so that the line of gravity, and