OVUM. 66 oviduct; but it occasionally happens that capsules burst without being so embraced, or that the process is disturbed, and the sub- stance of the yolk falling into the abdominal cavity of the fowl either produces serious injury by peritoneal inflammation, or may be gradually removed by absorption. The yolk enters the infundibulum, with its long axis corresponding to that of the oviduct, consequently with the cicatricula on its side, which we shall find to be its position also in the completed egg. The passage of the yolk through the first two-thirds of the length of the oviduct, in which part the albumen is deposited, is very rapid, scarcely occupying more than three hours, according to Coste*, before it arrives in the narrow or constricted part of a more limited extent (isthmus), in which the mem- brane of the shell is formed. About three hours more suffice for this process, and the ovum then enters the dilated portion, which has been called uterus, in which the substance of the shell is deposited and gradually consolidated on its surface. The albumen begins to be deposited round the yolk, immediately upon the entrance of the latter into the oviduct; at first in a thin layer, immediately investing the yolk, which subsequently becomes condensed into the chalazifcrous membrane, and in two long narrow portions extending before and behind the yolk from its poles, which portions of albumen are at first straight and simple, but afterwards become twisted and form the chalazae. (See fig. 46, a.) In the next part of the albuminiferous part of the oviduct, in which the glandular struc- ture is most fully developed, the albumen is deposited in much greater quantity round the yolk and chalazae, not following the form of the latter, and thus soon gives to the whole the oval shape which belongs to the egg; and we then recognise, previous to the formation of the shell or its lining membrane, that the narrower end of the oval is placed down- wards, or advances first in the oviduct. During the passage of the egg, and the formation of the albumen, membrane, and shell, a greatly increased determination of blood is observed in the vessels of the se- veral parts of the oviduct. (See fig. 47.) The formation of the accessory parts of the egg appears to proceed nearly in the same manner in the scaly reptiles as in birds. The accompanying figure, borrowed from the article Reptilia, is illustrative of the main features of the process. The advancing motion of the egg of the fowl is caused by the peristaltic action of the muscu- lar coat of the oviduct, which may be easily seen in any laying fowl opened immediately after death. The egg does not descend, however, in a straight line, but in a spiral direction, corresponding with that of the ridges of glands with which the mucous membrane of the oviduct is beset. Two peculiarities in the structure of the albuminous part of the egg result from this spiral motion — viz., * ITist. gen. et partic. du De'vel. &c. Fig. 47. Descent of the egrf in the oviduct of the Tortoise (cifter Bojanus). A. Infundibular opening of the oviduct; n, o, p, canal of the oviduct laid open; s, t, ovum opened, showing the yolk, albumen and shell; b, allantoid bladder; r, oviduct; C, d, kidney; e, ureter; in, termination of the opposite oviduct. the spiral laminated form of the outer layers of albumen, and the marked tortuosity of the chalazae. It is easy to understand how the spiral form is given to the deposit of the layers of albumen. The cause of the pecu- liar manner in which the chalazae are twisted is not so immediately apparent . it may be explained as follows. As already remarked, the spiral twist is in an opposite direction in the two chalazae ; one end of each of these cords must, therefore, have remained in a state of rest as compared with the other. Either, it may be supposed, the farther ends of the two chalazae extending into the ovi- duct before and behind the descending yolk, remain comparatively at rest, while that body with the albumen forming round it being closely embraced by the oviduct has the ro- tary motion impressed upon it; or, as is more probable, when the chalazae become attached to and involved in the deposited albumen, their outer ends move with it, while the yolk within, to which the inner ends of the chalazae are fixed, does not rotate in the same degree; a circumstance to which it is possible the dis- position of the side on which the cicatricula is placed to remain uppermost may in some degree contribute; and thus the yolk not turn- ing so rapidly, or so often as the white, the chalazae are twisted upon their roots attached to the surface of the yolk.* * It ought tobe observed, however, that according to Coste, the yolk does not at first rotate freely