PELVIS. 155 the anterior pelvic outlet, the transverse dia- meter is a little larger than the antero-pos- Fig. 94. Pelvis of the Lion, side view. terior, and the acetahula are large and deep. In the Badger the ilia and ischia are large, expanded, and curved outwards at their free extremities. The iliac shaft is prismatic, with an i/io-lumbar angle of 140째. The pubes are rather long, with an elongated symphysis, and form an angle with the ilia of about 130째. The same general conformation is evident in the Racoons and Coatis, the ilio-ischial angle being, however, somewhat better marked, and the ilio- pubic about 145째. The Coatis have but one sacral vertebra. In the Hyaena, also, the iliac wings are considerably spread, with a very pointed anterior spine. In the Dingo the ischio-pubic element is very short, the anterior outlet and obturator foramina small, but the posterior outlet larger. The Weasel has a very small pelvis, with but two sacral vertebrae, one only articulating witli upper extremities of the long iliac shafts. In the Phocce the sacrum has four vertebrae, the first only articulating with ilia, and much wiiler in its transverse processes than the rest; the ilia are extremely short, thick, and curved outwards, with very small external fossae; the ischia are long and slender, with small tuberosi- ties almost touching the second coccygeal ver- tebra, with long rami not forming a symphysis, but directed backward to meet the pubis. The pubes are very long, slender, and oblique, with a short symphysis, and including a very large, oval obturator foramen. The pelvis altogether somewhat resembles that of the Badger, with the superior opening much elongated antero- posteriorly, and triangular in shape, with the base at the sacrum. The shortness of the ilia alone indicates the great contraction of the posterior extremities for their swimming re- quirements. Dr. Knox has observed, in a pregnant female Seal, a separation of the symphysis pubis, and elongation of its liga- ments to the extent of nearly 2 inches, such as Le Gallois has described in the Guinea-pig. He found, moreover, that such a separation of the bones produced much more enlarge- ment of diameters in these elongated trian- gular pelves than in the transverse oval form of the human female. In the order of pelvic development, the Pachydermata occupy a very high place, being characterised by great massiveness, propor- tionate shallowness, and perpendicularity of pelvis, and large and overhanging acetabula, the better to support the immense weight of these animals, thrown more on the hinder ex- tremities than in the Carnivora, from their bulky dorsal structures and abdominal vis- cera. The ischial spinous ridges and anterior inferior iliac spines are faintly marked or wanting, the sacral spines arc coalesced into a continuous crest, and there is little or no sacral promontory. The sacrum of the Elephant (Jig. 95.) is comparatively very narrow, flat, and short, and placed on the spine at an angle almost imperceptible; the number of vertebrae being four only, according to Cuvier. The coccygeal vertebrae are numerous. The ilia are short, broad, massy, fan- shaped, and much expanded, with a large concavity or iliac fossa directed forwards and downwards, the dorsum being alter- nately concave and convex. The iliac crest (c) is large and flat-arched, with the anterior su- perior spine (a) hooked suddenly downwards, and the posterior inferior directed backward from the sacro-iliac joint, to afford leverage to the powerful sacro-iliac ligament. There are no well-marked iliac ribs, except the cotylo- sacral (d), which is very strong and massy. The ischia are moderately short, and form an ilio-ischial angle about 145째, presenting no spine, and having the tuberosities (e) directed Fig. 95: Pelvis of the Elephant, front view. dorsally, and the rami (/) vertically towards the abdominal surface. The pubes are short, and directed almost horizontally inwards, with a well-marked ilio-pectineal spine (//). The symphysis (g) is parallel to the vertebrae, and very long, including the whole of the short ischial rami as far as the rough por- tion forming the tuberosity, so that the ischio-pubic symphysis extends as far back- wards as the tuberosities. The sciatic notches are wide and open, but the obturator foramina are smaller than the cotyloid fossae, which are very large and overhang much at the superior or dorsal part. The planes of the acetabula