ORGANS OF. 267 RESPIRATION, tubes terminate." This really coincides with the supposition of Reisseissen : — " tracheae ramos ita per pulmones distribui, ut facta par- titione multiplici, singuli quique ccecis nec ampliatis terminentur finibus, quibus vesiculae aeriferae constituantur." Moleschott has slightly modified the views of Reisseissen : — " Jam singulos ductus aeriferos, non uti Fig. 213. An imaginary section of a lobule of the In/man lung, carried parallel with the plane of distribution of the chief interlobular divisions of the bronchi. The latter are observed to multiply both on. the dicho- tomous and arborescent plan. {Original.) e, c, denote the smallest of the true bronchi which contrast by their smooth walls the alveolated intercellular passages a, a, a. The latter exceed the extreme bronchules slightly in diameter. Un- like these bronchules (c), which never inosculate, the intercellular passages (a), ramify in every direc- tion and at every plane, and frequently open into one another, establishing thus a free communica- tion for the air between all parts of the lobule. b, b, b, indicate the ultimate air-cells of the lungs. They correspond in size with the alveoli (them- selves true cells) on the walls of the intercellular passages, e, e, bottom of the sub-pleural or most superficial air-cells. Reisseissen voluit, eoecis nec ampliatis finibus terminari elicit, verum ad latera parietalibus vesiculis instructos esse testatur." Kolliker adopts the views of Rossignol, and constructs an illustration which expresses more perfectly the views of the latter author. * If a series of hollow cells were disposed linearly, the points of contact being converted into foramina, as represented in this diagram, * " Mit denselben stehen dann die letzen Ele- mente der Luftwege, die Luftzellen oder Lungen they would accurately answer to the descrip- tion of the "intercellular passages" (fa', fig. 210.; 'a!', fig. 212.). It is, therefore, obvious that two different minds, contemplating the same Fig. 214. Diagram of two lobules a, a, of the human lung. {After Kolliker.) I>, b, b, b, ultimate air-cells; c, c, the finest bron- chial tubes. (Magnified 25 diameters.) objects under two different preconceptions, would see in them "passages"or "infundibula." A lung injected with wax readily misleads to the Fig. 215. n {After Rossignol.) b, extreme bronchial tube of the human lung terminating in the "infundibula;" a, a, infundibula multiplied into cells on their parietes. error committed by Reisseissen of supposing each cell to be the separate termination of a separate bronchial branch. But it is certain blaschen, in Verbindung, doch nicht so, wie man friiher glaubte, dass jedes feinste Bronchialastchen terminal in ein einziges Blaschen ausgeht, sondern in dem dieselben immer mit einer ganzen Groppe von Blaschen sich vereinen. Diese Blaschengrup- pen entsprechen den kleinsten Lappchen fcrau- benformiger Driisen, and es ist daher nicht die geiingste NOthigung vorhanden, dieselben mit einem andem Namen zu bezeichnen, wie Rossignol der sie infundibula nennt, wenn auch zuzugeben ist, dass ihr Bau in manchen eigenthiimlich sich ver- lialt. Wahreud namlich in andern Driisen die DriisenblSschen, wenn sie auch nicht so isolirt fur sich bestehen, wie man bisher angenonimen hat, doch eine gewisse Selbstandigheit haben sind, die ihnen entsprechen Elemente in den Lungen, die Luftzellen, in bedeuten Grade untereinandcr ver- schmolzen, so dass alle einem Lappchen angehori- gen Blaschen nicht in Abzweigungen der zu dem- selben tretenden feinsten Bronchialastchen, sondern in einem gemeinsamen Hohlranm einmiinden aus dem dann erst das Luftgefiiss sich entwickelt."' —Mic. Anat., Zweiten Halfe, p. 300.