126 PELVIS. line of an irregular curvature, commencing posteriorly at tiie centre of the great sciatic notch, and, passing upwards and forwards, terminates in the crest a little posterior to the anterior superior spine. This is the superior curved line (2) — (^posterior of Cruveilhier). Below this is another line of a like character, the inferior curved line (3)—(the anterior of Cruveilhier); which, commencing an inch be- low the'other in the sciatic notch, gradually diverges from it, and terminates anteriorly at the inferior spinous process of the ilium. The surface presents numerous small circular open- ings for the admission of the nutritious vessels of the bone, all of which have a direction downwards towards the articular surfaces. About an inch and a half below the inferior curved line is a large articular cavity for the reception of the head of the thigh bone, which is named the acetabulum, or cotyloid cavity,— kotv\t], a cup ; and a'doc, like (4). This is a perfectly hemispherical excavation of about two inches diameter in the full grown male, and cir- cumscribed by a rough irregularly raised brim or circular border, to which is attached the circumferential fibro-cartilage or cotyloid liga- ment of the hip-joint. When the bone is pro- perly placed, as in the articulated skeleton, the axis of this cavity is directed outwards and a little downwards for the better adaptation of the femur; and to this end the posterior part of its circumference is much thicker and more prominently elevated than the anterior. Su- periorly it is still more evidently prolonged outwards at the point where the before men- tioned thick vertical ridge of the ilium springs from it. Inferiorly the border is interrupted for the space of an inch by the cotyloid notch (5), to the edges of which are attached the transverse and interarticular ligaments of the hip-joint, and which is continued into the cen- tre of the cavity by a rough depression or fossa, for the reception of some lubricating glands and the interarticular ligament connected with the femur. The bottom of the notch is on the same plane as that of the depression, and affords an entrance for the vessels and nerves supplying the joints. The remainder of the cavity is a smooth and even surface, uniformly concave and circular, which is covered in the fresh state by a cartilage of a semilunar shape. The broadest part of this surface is above where the superior border projects. The pos- terior extremity is prolonged into a lip which a little overhangs the notch posteriorly, and terminates exactly opposite to the broadest part of the overhanging superior margin. The anterior extremity is the narrowest, being notched slightly by the groove below the an- terior inferior iliac spine on the anterior bor- der of the bone before mentioned. At the bottom of the cotyloid fossa may be traced two lines arranged in the shape of a T, the lower limb of which divides the cotyloid notch into nearly equal portions. These mark the foetal division of the bone into three por- tions, of which the ilium contributes the two superior fifths, the ischium the infeuor pos- terior two fifths, and the pubis the remaining anterior inferior fifth, to the formation of the cotyloid cavity. Externally, the brim of the ace- tabulum is convex, rounded, rough, and marked above and behind by the attachment of the capsular ligament of the hip-joint ( G). It is here perforated by numerous foramina for the admission of nutritive vessels. It is much better pronounced above and behind, where it presents a broad, thick, convex sur- face, than in front where it is shallow, thin, and slightly depressed. The points where this difference is indicated are, the inferior spine of the ilium above, and the cotyloid notch below. Springing from the cotyloid cavity are two branches of bone ; one from the inferior part, thick, massive, directed downwards and back- wards called the descending ramus or body of the ischium(p); and the other, from the anterior part, slighter in structure, and directed obli- quely downwards, forwards, and inwards in the same plane with the ilium, called the horizontal ramus or body of the pubis {(f). These are each prolonged at their further extremities into flattened tapering processes, which, alter- ing the original direction of their respective portions of bone, one ascends obliquely in- wards, and the other descends obliquely out- wards, to unite with each other midway, at a point marked by a slight transverse line. They are named respectively the ascending ranuis of the ischium (r), and the descending ramus of the pubis (*).* Together they form the inferior border of the innominate bone, and complete the formation of a large oval opening, situated immediately below, and a little internal to the cotyloid cavity, having its long axis directed obliquely downwards and outwards, and called the obturator or thyroid foramen (o)—Suptoe, a shield; and tidog, like. The edges of this opening are thin, bevilled off, and rough, for the attachment of a fascial ligament which closes the opening, and are formed entirely by the ischium and pubes. The external edge, instead of meeting the internal superiorly, is continued inwards ill front of it, along the superior ramus to the spine of the pubes before described, forming a prominent rib of bone of a triangular shape (17), its base abut- ting on the cotyloid cavity. This rib is con- vex vertically, and concave laterally. Between it and the internal edge of the thyroid fora- men is left a groove, called the sub-pubic or obturator groove (t), for the passage of a nerve and vessels, and which has a direction down- wards and inwards. The junction of the horizontal and descending rami of the pubis is called the angle of the pubis; and it is hol- * There has been much confusion in the applica- tion of names to these bones, the term body of the pubis is applied by some to the angle, and by others to the cotyloid portion only. The term body is confined also by some to the acetabular part of the ischium. The expressions horizontal and descending rami of the pubis and ascending ramus of the ischium were applied before a true knowledge of the pelvic obliquity was obtained. The former would probably be well superseded by the words superior and inferior, and those applied to the ischial rami by anterior and posterior, or greater and lesser.