STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 343 the intestines generally gives them a nodu- lated or almost moniliform shape, and the movement gradually ceases. On uncovering portions of the canal hitherto concealed, all these appearances are repeated. The con- tracted state remains for some hours, and finally again disappears. Now the tranquillity of these portions of intestine previously to the admission of air, the irregular and diffuse nature of the con- tractions themselves, the final result on the intestine, and the effect of uncovering fresh portions—all these circumstances together offer the strongest probability, that the move- ments witnessed are due to the contact of the air. And hence, although it is interesting to notice that these contractions often assume the form of a peristalsis (that is, of a circular constriction which travels slowly in a direc- tion towards the rectum), still they do not warrant any conclusions as to the nature or force of those definite movements which are doubtless executed by the intestines during life. Nor are the movements which result from applying a local irritation to the bowel, under the same circumstances, much more uniform or conclusive. Unless excited before the commencement of the vermicular movements, or towards their close, they are obviously liable to be confused with these; — which, indeed, they closely resemble. Thus, when the surface of the bowel is irritated mechani- cally, a mere local contraction is sometimes produced. In other instances, and especially when the duodenum is the part attacked, the contraction extends downwards, or even upwards, from the irritated point. Sometimes this diffused contraction occurs almost imme- diately after the application of the stimulus ; sometimes only after the lapse of a consi- derable interval of time. Sometimes, without any repetition of the stimulus, such waves are repeated; with short intermissions, and of gradually diminishing strength. Sometimes, instead of one continuous wave, a broken or interrupted one is produced;—a condition which is chiefly seen in the small intestine. Similar contractions may also be excited by the mechanical or chemical irritation of the nerves which immediately supply the intes- tines. But irritation of the mucous membrane has little or no effect. Direct galvanic stimu- lation, by means of the rotary electro-magnetic apparatus, repeats many of these appearances. On applying the approximated electrodes to a given point, a short interval precedes the occur- rence of a local contraction : and this con- traction endures after their removal. In some animals, this local contraction is jwly propa- gated onwards, for a variable distance, towards the rectum. This continuous movement may even be repeated without any fresh appli- cation of the stimulus. But that more diffuse irritation which may be produced by stroking the intestine with the wires gives rise to none but local contractions. While galvanizing the nerves reproduces the lively, but general, movements above alluded to. And finally, whatever be the form of irritation, it ceases to have any effect, soon after the lapse of that period at which the vermicular movements usually cease. This departure of irritability may, however, be retarded by warmth, or by preventing the access of air. And the capacity for such movements may sometimes be re- stored by returning the divided and dead intestine to the belly of the living animal. Final!}', though the repeated irritation of any one part soon exhausts its contractility, still, after a short interval of repose, it is at least partially restored. On mechanically irritating the exposed intestines of the living animal, very different results are obtained. Compressing them between the fingers produces a local con- traction, which lasts some few minutes, and then disappears. Scratching their peritoneal surface usually gives rise to elevations, which are just as local as the preceding depressions. These elevations,—which seem to be due to relaxation of the outer or longitudinal mus- cular layer,—are accompanied by contractions of the deeper transverse fibres. And the latter can still be excited, after all possibility of pro- ducing the former has been destroyed by cold. Mechanical or chemical irritation of the mucous membrane, or pinching or section of the nerves, produces no movements what- ever:—even where the degree of nervous sti- mulation is such as to cause convulsive move- ments of the hind feet of the animal. And distention of the bowel with water seems to be equally inefficacious; indeed, it appears to leave the ordinary irritability by local stimuli very little affected. The observations of Schwarzenbcrg and Ludwig *, upon dogs in whom intestinal fistulas had been carefully instituted, afford much more direct and trustworthy evidence respecting the normal intestinal movements. They introduced into the canal balls of wax, attached to slender lead wires ; and thus verified the following details. The contents of the canal are propelled by a slow continuous peristalsis, which has a definite direction towards the rectum. And although irritation always excites a local contraction, it only gives rise to peristalsis at definite times, during the intervals of which the intestine remains at rest. These times have a general connection with the digestive act: the period of minimum activity being before a meal ; while the maximum of movement is usually from four to six hours after it. But the act of peristalsis is essentially independent of the presence of food; since it may be produced in a starving animal, or in an empty segment of tube. And not only does this intermittent character affect the general occurrence of the propulsive act, but even, to all appearance, its specific phenomena. For when applied at the proper period, a single continuous irri- tation produces a repeated and intermittent peristalsis. Hence it is obvious that, during * ZeitschriftfuerdieKationelIenPathologie,Bd.vii. p. 315. . z 4