OVUM. 11 so called, are now known to be capable of true sexual generation, by means of ova, in their perfect or complete condition, and the whole class is remarkable for the great de- velopment of the sexual organs, and the pro- digious numbers of ova which they bring forth. But it has been ascertained that their ova are rarely developed into new beings in the place of the abode of the adult entozoa: they are commonly subject, therefore, to migration from one organ to another in the same indi- vidual, or from one animal to another, or from the parasitic to the free-living condition ; and they have recently been discovered to present very remarkable changes of external form and internal organisation in their va- rious habitations ; so great, indeed, that many of them, previously believed to belong to species, and even to genera and families widely different, are now recognised as dif- ferent conditions of the same animal or species, and that many forms, whose mode of generation was unknown, are found to be derived by indirect production from ova, in a manner which will be more particularly de- scribed under the next section. Tims it appears that the only entozoa which are destitute of sexual organs, viz. those belonging to the division cystica, are very probably only imperfect forms of Taenia or other cestoids, which, so long as they are in the encysted or confined condition, do not reach their full development : but many of which, during their incomplete condition, are capable of being multiplied by a process analo- gous to gemmation. The greater number of the entozoa breed only when in the alimentary canal of animals, and the ova are excreted along with the f'ceces: it is obvious, therefore, that very many ova must be destroyed, and that a few only are liable to gain those peculiar situa- tions which are fitted to maintain them in their earlier conditions, or in their later stages, to bring them, as parasites, to their full state of development. The entozoa are usually found, therefore, in their most advanced stage, in the alimentary canal. There seems, on the whole, little dif- ficulty in accounting for the entrance of en- tozoa from without into the alimentary canal, or the pulmonary air-cells and other open cavities : and every new fact that has been observed relative to the occurrence of entozoa in man and animals, leads to the conclusion that the ova, or perhaps more frequently the earlier larval or undeveloped forms of the entozoa, gain access to these situations by introduction from without, and most fre- quently along with food and drink; in those instances at least in which the entozoa migrate from one animal to another, or from an animal to the free state before returning to the parasitic condition. But the entozoa, which are, in general, in an incomplete state when situated in the close cavities or solid textures of the organs of animals, sometimes make their way from these situations into the alimentary canal, there to undergo their final development. Such appears to be the case with the Strongylus arm at us, living in au incomplete state in aneurismal sacs of the blood-vessels of the horse, and in a fully developed state in the intestine; the Stron- gylus vagans, in cysts of the porpoise, and afterwards free in the lungs ; the Ligula or Bothriocephalus solidus, in cysts of the ab- dominal cavity of fishes, and afterwards in their perfect state in the alimentary canal of sea-birds. The Trichina and Echinorrhynchi, imbedded in the muscular flesh in great quan- tities, are no doubt imperfect forms of other worms, which must migrate from these situa- tions to attain to their complete state. With regard to the manner in which the en- tozoa inhabiting the close cavities of the body, or imbedded in the solid substance of organs, either in the free or encysted condition, gain access to these situations, which has to many appeared inexplicable, excepting on the hypo- thesis of their arising actually in the places which they inhabit, observations are no less decided in proving them to be of external in- troduction. In the first place it may be stated that, al- though the ova of a considerable number of the entozoa are of so considerable a size as to render it improbable that they have passed as such through the capillary vessels, yet few, if any, of these larger kinds are observed en- cysted, and in others the ova are extremely minute, and might, without difficulty, be car- ried through most of the capillary vessels. In the next place it may be mentioned that the embryoes, or earlier forms of various parasites, and the ova of others, have been observed in considerable numbers in the cir- culating blood of various animals *, as showing that by this means the entozoa may be carried in their small and early condition into any part of the body of an animal which is fitted to afford the conditions favourable to their farther development. But in what manner have these bodies gained an entrance into the blood-vessels, or, in other instances, how may entozoa have penetrated into cavities or the parenchyma of organs, without being conveyed through the blood-vessels ? To this question, also, recent observations seem to furnish a satisfactory answer : for it has been ascertained that, in a number of instances, smaller or larger en- tozoa, but especially the former, pierce the tissues of animals with great apparent facility, being frequently provided in the young state with an apparatus of sharp hooks for that special purpose. Some of them have been observed in the act of passing through the * I may here refer to the original observations of Schmitz, (Berlin, 182G), and the more recent ones of Valentin Gruby, Gluge, Vogt, and others. See Valentin, Repertorium for 1842 and 1813. The Annual Report in Midler's Archiv. for the same years, and in Wiegmann's Archiv. for Natnrgesch. Valentin's account of the Ova of Distoma in the fluid covering the medulla oblongata of a foetal sheep (Midler's Archiv. 1840, p. 317), and V. Siebold's Article ' Parasites' in R. Wagner's Handwbrterbuck der Physiologic.