302 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. will be necessary briefly to state its pecu- liarities in each. In the Camivora the shape of the stomach approaches that of the human organ : it has a cardiac pouch, and a greater and lesser curvature. The intestine is short, its length being to that of the body as* 5 to 1 in cats and dogs, and 8 or 9 to 1 in the hyaena and bear, but reaching 15 to 1 in the P/toca vitaliua, one of the amphibious seals. The mucous membrane is destitute of folds. The convolutions of the small intestine are few and simple. The caecum is short, and scarcely wider than the rest of the large intestine.f And the latter segment of the canal is short, wide, and cylindrical. The Insectivora have a very similar intestinal tube. The simple and elongated stomach is transverse to the axis of the body. In some genera, its spherical cardiac pouch is enlarged, while its lesser curvature becomes shortened. The intestine is short—from three to six times the length of the body; it has no caecum, and a nearly uniform diameter. Its mucous membrane exhibits zig-zag folds, which run longitudinally throughout its whole length. In the Cheiroptera three chief varieties of stomach have been distinguished by Cuvier. The first approaches that seen in the preceding order, and belongs to those members of this group which feed upon insects. Here the nearly spherical organ has a cardia and pylorus, which are situated close to each other. The second form is seen in those which subsist by sucking the blood of animals : it differs from the preceding in being longer, and more conical from cardia to pylorus. The third, which obtains in the frugivorous division, is very different from both the pre- ceding. Thus, in the Pteropus the stomach is a long tube, placed transversely to the axis of the body. One-third of its length is formed by the cardiac pouch, which lies to the left of the oesophageal aperture, and is divided into two by a slight constriction, while its terminal or pyloric third is bent back so as to be parallel and near to the middle portion. The mucous membrane of this stomach is folded longitudinally ; the left subdivision of the cardia is smooth, and the lower part of the oesophagus—which is somewhat dilated — differs from the upper. The pylorus is well marked in all the Cheiroptera, and the intestine, which is much narrower than the stomach, and is devoid of caecum, is of nearly uniform diameter. It often presents concentric windings or coils. Its length varies greatly ;—thus, in the frugi- vorous Pteropus it is six or seven times, in the insectivorous Bat only twice, the length of the body. Edentata.—The stomach of this order differs greatly in different genera. Most of them possess a simple organ ; the cardiac * We owe these measurements to Meckel. \ In the dog it is convoluted. pouch of which is large and globular, while the pyloric extremity is conical, and is some- times almost absorbed into the spherical cavity. A single genus, the Mams, adds a further distinction to these two parts in the shape of an internal fold of mucous mem- brane ; and one of its species exhibits a long blind sac, springing from the right of the pyloric aperture. In the Tardigrade genera the stomach assumes much of the complexity seen in the Ruminantia. For it has two cavities, a cardiac and a pyloric, which, if regarded from the exterior, look like mere exaggera- tions of the distinction mentioned above, but, when examined internally, are seen to be divided by prominent folds, and by differences in the character of their mucous membrane. Thus the cardiac pouch has a dry epidermoid lining, and is subdivided by a fold into two parts, and prolonged into a short blind tube, while the pyloric sac has a soft and delicate mu- cous membrane, and more muscular parietes. And its interior is also subdivided, by a fold of membrane, into a terminal part, which is analogous to the fourth stomach of the Ru- minants, and an intermediate cavity, which resembles the third stomach of the same order in its possessing dentate processes, and a direct communication with the oesophagus. The latter tube also exhibits a cul-de-sac, which is sometimes further divided by folds. The form and length of the remainder of the canal is subject to great variety. Its mesentery is very long. In many genera there is no distinction of the intestine into large and small. In some there is no trace of a caecum. In others there are two of these tubes, which occupy the confines of the large and small intestines, and open by what are sometimes extremely minute apertures.* The Ruminantia are remarkable for the com- plete subdivision of their stomach into four dis- tinct cavities. The first of these, the rumen, or paunch, is generally of very great size. It is situated to the left of the oesophagus, from which it receives the food when first swallowed: it has a villous texture, but its minute conical processes are covered by a dense white pave- ment epithelium. The second cavity, the honeycomb or reticulum, is so called from the appearance of its mucous membrane, which, in all other respects, has the same structure as that of the preceding cavity. The third portion, the maniplies or psalterium, is named from the many longitudinal plies or folds which occupy its interior. In the Camel, the circumference of the cells or excavations of its reticulum and paunch have been long recognized as containing muscular fasciculi, the contraction of which enables these cavi- ties to retain water free from admixture with the general contents of the stomach. And * In such a case they can hardly be supposed to receive ftecal matter. But in the Dasi/pus muste- linus, the ileum ends by a slit between the larger apertures of two such tubes; and hence appears to admit of being closed by the lateral pressure of their contents. (See Prof. Owen's Catalogue of the Hun- terian Museum, vol. i. p. 219. 729 A.)