[124] OVUM. in most but not in all of which segmentation is complete. This process was first made known through the interesting researches of Kdlliker*, in Muller's Archiv., 1843, p. 68, and Bagge, in his Inaugural Dissertation.f The memoir of Reichert in Miiller's Archiv., 1847, contains very correct, views as to the formation of the spermatic cells. The accompanying figure from MeissnerJ, gives a representation of a remarkable form of the external capsule of the ova occurring in some of the Gordiacei (Mermis nigrescens_). Fig. 90*. Mature ova of Mermis nigrescens. (From Meissner.~) This figure is introduced to show the very pe- culiar capsule in which the ovum is enclosed. a. Ovum taken from the uterus with embryo enclosed; the chorion and shell capsule with cha- lazse or brash-like processes attached to the latter. 6, c. The shell capsule c burst across the equa- torial groove, allows the ovum b to escape with the chorion and embryo contained within it. The ova of Trematoda are generally of a long-oval form, and of middle size. They are enveloped by a shell membrane of consider- able firmness, and which is not unfrequently of a dark brown colour. The yolk-sub- stance contains fat corpuscles simple and compound ; and there is a germinal vesicle present, which, however, from the deep colouration and other circumstances, is often very difficult of detection. In these animals an interesting peculiarity in the arrangement of the reproductive organs exists, in the separation of the germ-forming and yolk-forming portions from each other; in the first of these organs germinal vesicles or clear nucleated cells alone being produced, in the other the opaque granular fatty matter which furnishes the vitellus. This arrange- ment was first described by Von Siebold in 1836.$ The germ organ is generally in the form of a rounded sac, which is filled with the nucleated germ-cells or vesicles in various * See his admirable memoir on the first changes in the fecundated ovum, principally referring to the Entozoa. t Dissert, inaug. de Erolutione Strongyli auri- cularis et Ascaridis acuminata?, Erlangae, 1841. t Zeitsch. fur Wissen. Zool. vii. pi. ii. ยง Wiegmann's Archiv., 1836, p. 217, Tafl. vi., and Muller's Archiv. 183G, p. 232, Tafl. x., fig. 1. stages of development. The vitelline organ is double, each one consisting of ccecal tubes, in which the opaque granular yolk-substance is secreted.* The ducts of these two organs meet in a common cavity or uterus, and the germs descending into this cavity are there enveloped by a portion of the vitelline mass, and shortly afterwards an enclosing vitelline membrane is formed. These animals being hermaphrodite, the vas deferens of the male organ or testicle leads into the uterine cavity ; and it would appear, therefore, that in many cases, if not in all, impregnation takes place by the access of the spermatic corpuscles to the elements of the yolk and germinal vesicle, just at the time when they are brought toge- ther to form the ovum. This separation of the germ-forming and yolk-forniing parts of the ovarian organ, which is so apparent in the Trematoda, is not in truth so great a departure from the more familiar structure of other animals as might at first be thought; for, as Leuckart has well observed, there are other examples of the same disposition, or an approach to it. Thus in Insects and in Nematoid Worms, as we have seen, it is from distinct parts of the genital tube that the germs and yolk are produced ; and more or less of the same arrangement exists in all instances in which the form of the ovary is tubular. The Cestoidea present a great similarity to the Trematoda in the arrangement of the organs by which the ovum is formed. Indeed, notwithstanding the difference of their antece- dent stages of development, the structure of the mature sexual joint or proglottis of the tapeworm, offers so great a resemblance to that of some of the Trematoda, that they have been regarded as identical by several recent obser- vers. In each sexual joint of the tapeworm, the testicle and the two parts of the ovarian organ coexist, and, as stated in an earlier part of this article, arrive at maturity simul- taneously in the posterior or oldest segments of the body. Van Beneden has, in his recent work on the Cestoid Worms-)-, described very clearly the structure and relations of the ger- migenous and vitelligenous parts of the repro- ductive organs in the complete segments or proglottides of a variety of Cestoid worms. The ova originate in the first mentioned of these organs as germinal vesicles, and, passing into the vitelligenous part, meet with the yolk-masses formed there. Near the same place is situated the seminal vesicle, from which, doubtless, the spermatic substance easily reaches the ovum as it descends in the course of its formation. The ova then ac- quire an external envelope, and pass into the cavity termed a uterus. As they come to be accumulated in gradually increasing quantity in the latter cavity, they distend it to a great degree, so as to cause it to pervade in various forms, ramified and others, the whole body of * See also Thaer on this subject, in Muller's Archiv., 1850, p. 626. f Mem. sur les Vers Cestoides. Acad. Roy. de Belgique, torn. xxv. 1850, see plate B.