716 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. passes off in all directions at the root of the cord, and spreads in a thin opaline lamina over the foetal surface of the placenta, to which it slightly adheres. In some cases, especially when the umbilical vessels divide before entering the placenta, the amnion has no attachment at all to the latter. The am- nion of the placenta does not differ in any respect from the rest of the amniotic sac, of which the placental portion constitutes about one third. Upon its foetal surface is a single layer of flattened polygonal cells filled with delicate fat granulations. Chorion.— The same proportion of chorion as of the amnion, namely, about one third of the entire superficies, is appropriated to the placenta. This, however, is not, like the amnion, simply an apposed membrane. It enters into the composition of the organ, and gives strength to it (fig. 484. cK). It sustains and transmits the branches of the umbilical vessels (vf), which adhere to,and ramify upon, its foetal surface, between it and the amnion. This face of the chorion is united to the amnion by a thin and easily separable layer of soft pulpy tissue, constituting a portion of the tunica media of the ovum, while the reverse surface, which forms, as it were, the base or floor of the placenta, bears the numerous tufts or villi that make up the bulk of this organ. Facial blood-vessels, — The blood-vessels of the placenta which belong to the foetus are branches of the two umbilical arteries, and of the single umbilical vein. These, as just stated, ramify in large trunks over a consider- able portion of the foetal or under surface of the placenta, before they penetrate the cho- rion to gain the interior of the organ. When the foetal vessels have been injected from the funis, their course upon this surface of the placenta is easily traced. Within the root of the cord, and at a distance of one inch from its insertion, the two umbilical arteries com- municate together by a cross branch half an inch in length. Immediately on reaching the placental surface, each artery bifurcates, the branches passing off in opposite directions. A second bifurcation takes place, in the same manner, about half or three quarters of an inch from the first. And lastly, a third, at distances ranging from one to two and a half inches. Each of these dichotomous divisions is at first more or less abrupt and opposite, the vessels afterwards bending, and taking a slightly divergent or parallel course, or even somewhat approximating. After the third bifurcation, the vessels again divide and sub- divide, but now at acute angles ; their extre- mities become lost, when they are reduced to the size of a crow quill, by dipping down sud- denly, and passing through the chorion, to enter the substance of the placenta at dis- tances varying from an inch to an inch and a half from its border. A small branch, how- ever, in continuation, often runs on nearly to the edge. Lateral branches, of the same size as the terminal subdivisions, also leave the main vessels in all parts of their course, and dip down into the placental substance. The branches of the veins, about sixteen in number, which return the blood from the in- terior of the placenta, emerge from its sub- stance close to the points of entrance of the arteries, and take a less tortuous course than the latter. They, however, accompany these vessels, but more in the form of radiating lines, which proceed towards the root of the funis, passing under the arteries, and ulti- mately uniting in the single umbilical vein. The varieties in the form of the placenta already noticed are apparently dependent upon certain modifications in the development and arrangement of these vessels, which are like- wise very variable, although the same primary divisions are noticeable in all. In the circular placenta the root of the cord is inserted into, or near, the centre. In the oval form it is attached to the smaller extremity forming the placenta en raquette. In the reniform and cordate placenta, the insertion is likewise more or less lateral. Lastly, when the vessels of the cord divide before arriving at the surface, they form the placenta en parasol. Uterine surface.— The reverse or uterine surface of a placenta which has been sepa- rated Irom its attachment, as in natural labour, is rough, and is divided into numerous rounded oval or angular portions, termed lobes or co- tyledons. These vary from half an inch to an inch and a half in diameter. The whole of this surface consists of a thin, soft, and somewhat leathery investment of deciduous membrane, which dips down in various parts to form the sulci that separate the cotyledons from each other. This layer is a portion of the decidua which, as long as the parts are in situ, constitutes the boundary between the placenta and the muscular substance of the uterus, but which at the time of labour be- comes split asunder, so that while a portion is carried off along with the placenta, and constitutes its external membrane, the rest remains attached to the inner surface of the uterus. This layer serves as a medium by which the uterine arteries (Jig. 484. a a) and veins pass from the uterus into the placenta. Numerous valve-like apertures are observed upon all parts of the surface. They are the orifices of the veins which have been torn off from the uterus. A probe passed into any of these, after taking an oblique direction, enters at once into the placental substance. Small arteries, about half an inch in length, are also everywhere observed embedded in this layer. After making several sharp spiral turns, they likewise suddenly open into the placenta. These are the uterine vessels, which convey the maternal blood to and from the interior of the placenta. Circumference. — The margin of the pla- centa is bordered all round by the united membranes which enter into its composition. Here the amnion and chorion, after lining the foetal or concave surface, come into contact with the decidua which covers its uterine face, and the three membranes then pass off to- gether to enclose the liquor amnii and foetus. At this part the decidua is always most dense.