PELVIS. 16G from the coalesced transverse processes by two faintly-marked longitudinal grooves. The transverse processes of the true sacral ver- tebras present a very prominent framework of ridges anteriorly {fig. 105.), which have a direction upwards and backwards as well as outwards, the most strongly marked being opposite the acetabula (/;). They are coalesced on the superior aspect, by a thin plate of bone only. The sacrum, as seen from above (fig- 104.), has a diamond-shaped ap- pearance, and is marked out from the iliac and ischial elements by a faintly-marked suture (c). The sacrum in Birds is a continuation of the line of the great dorsal curvature. The coccyx is generally short, composed of from five to nine pieces, generally perforated for the spinal marrow, and curved dorsally, as we have observed before in some Rodents, terminating in a spinous-shaped piece (see fig. 107., a). The ilia are comparatively short and narrow : with a very short cotylo-sacral rib or shaft (c), directed upwards and forwards, and expanding into a wing (d), concave or grooved supe- riorly. The a/a is prolonged forwards on the posterior surfaces of the ankylosed lumbar vertebrae, coalescing with their spines and transverse processes; and also extends back- wards to a less degree, to coalesce with the upper bifurcation of the anterior extremity of the ischium, in a sort of bidtress(f), which projects externally and overhangs the aceta- bulum posteriorly, presenting, below, a facet, against which rests the trochanter of the femur, and which is apparently a continuation of the articular cotyloid surface. This but- tress is continued from the ischium inwards, as a strong ridge, to the extremity of the strongest of the sacral transverse processes before mentioned (fig. 105. b), opposite the Fig. 105. Inferior or ventral view of the pelvis of the Par- tridge—natural size: a, coalesced bodies of sacral vertebras ; b, sacral transverse processes ; n, ischial spine ; r, lumbar or pseudo-sacral processes ; s, anky- losed lumbar vertebrse. The remaining letters refer to the same parts as in Jig. 99. lateral angles of the diamond-shaped sacral plate, and evidently contributes in the greatest degree to support the trunk upon the femurs in the standing posture. The principal part of the ilium in birds is composed of the alas, which lie almost altogether on the dorsal aspect of the spinal column. The total axis of the ilium, however, crosses that of the spine at an angle of from 150° to 160°, and does not, strictly speaking, lie parallel to it, as is com- monly asserted (seefig. 112. 10.). From the posterior part of the inner border of the iliac wing passes backward a thin plate of bone (g), along the external borders of the diamond-shaped sacral plate, from which it is marked by a distinct line of suture (c). It is continuous, posteriorly and externally, with the sacro-sciatic ossification, to be presently men- tioned, from which it is also marked, especially in the Partridge and some other birds, by a raised line of demarcation (t). This thin plate is convex above and concave below, and enters into the formation of the pelvic cavity, being much hollowed in the Partridge and the Gal- linacece generally (fig. 105. g), to receive the pelvic viscera. It seems to result from the ossification of the sacro-iliac oblique ligament, and to form a separate pelvic element which may be called the sacro-iliac, or ilio-sacral. The ischia of birds (/c) are long, strong, and divergent posteriorly ; and, from the perfora- tion of the cotyloids, appear to be bifurcated at the anterior extremity. The inferior bifur- cation is horizontal, coalesces with the ilium and pubis, and separates the acetabulum (i) from the obturator foramen (o). The superior bifurcation is vertical in direction, separating the acetabulum (?) from the sacro- sciatic foramen (/), and coalescing above, inter- nally with the long sacral transverse process (b) and ilio-sacral bone (g), and anteriorly with the ilium in the ischio-sacral buttress (_/'), before mentioned, which it principally con- tributes to support and form, and which may be considered as the homologue of the ischio-sacral arch in the human pelvis, separated from the eotylo-sacral rib (e) by a thin plate of bone above, and by the perforated acetabulum below. The posterior extremity of the ischium is much elongated, and constitutes the bulk of the bone. Its inferior border is spread out into a broad thin plate, slightly prolonged into an anterior process (m), which seems to represent the ascending ramus of Mammals, from its frequently uniting with the pubis and forming the posterior boundary of an obturator foramen. Its superior border is prolonged into a broad thin plate (h) hollowed out in the pelvic cavity, and which constitutes the sacro-sciatic pelvic element, being evidently formed by ossi- fication of the sacro-sciatic ligaments, from its completing posteriorly the sacro-sciatic foramen (/), and coalescing with the sacro-iliac plate (g), before mentioned, and, behind it, with the sacrum. The posterior extremity of the ischium is prolonged generally into a thin angular spinous process («). The ischia in Birds generally form a right line with the ilia; but in the Birds of prey they constitute a remarkable exception, and make a very