SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 444 tomists, the sympathetic was described as a nerves, reinforced by fibres sent to it from continuation of the fifth and sixth cranial the different-cerebro spinal nerves along its membrane. The number of processes varies between the multipolar ganglion-cells. There are no grounds three and twelve; by speedily branching they may for the assumption that (human) sympathetic fibres be increased threefold and upwards. The number exist which do not stand in connection with spinal is regulated by the number of nerves connected fibres, and consequently not in connection with the with the ganglion; and hence it is smaller in the great central organs of the nervous system. So main cord than in the solar plexus. The processes also in the nerves passing off from the sympathetic have in general the optical and chemical properties ganglia to organs no spinal fibres have as yet been of the axis cylinder of the nerve-fibres. In the demonstrated in whose course no sympathetic gan- solar plexus there are found, however, ganglion glion-cells are found. cells whose processes are distinguished from one By the above results, it is merely established another in a similar manner to those of the ganglion that in the sympathetic ganglia the angles oi cells in the electric lobes of the torpedo. Besides the branching, or points where sensory and motor fibres multipolar ganglion cells, bipolar cells are also ob- divide, contain ganglion-cells. The ganglia are not, served in the plagiostomata and mammalia. They however, thereby established to have the function differ from those of the spinal ganglia, however, in of central organs, so far as we make them depend- this, that both processes branch, thus coming to ant on the conflux of sensory and motor fibres, and agree essentially with the multipolar cells. The so long as there is no ground for supposing that same holds of the unipolar cells which, in the ani- among the peripherical fibres passing from a sen- mals mentioned, are sometimes found along with sory or motor sympathetic ganglion-cell, as well multipolar, and which in the batrachia and osseous sensory as motor fibres are found. Ganglion-cells fishes, as well as in the head of the mammalia, have been observed by Leydig in the angles of almost alone constitute the sympathetic ganglia, branching of sensory fibres in CarinariaMediterranea. In transverse or longitudinal sections of the thoracic In the angles of branching of motor fibres gan- or abdominal sympathetic ganglia in the mammal glion-cells are only known in the great central or plagiostome, the simple (generally very broad) organs. This of itself gives ground for the ques- processes of such a unipolar cell are seen after a short tion, whether the sympathetic ganglia have the course to divide into numerous fibres, which pass function of central organs; that is, whether in oft' from one another in different directions. That them there are distinct sensory and distinct motor all the processes take a peripherical course cannot, cells, or whether each multipolar cell serves as a according to Remak, be demonstrated, and is, from medium of connection between sensory and motor what follows, improbable. fibres. On the spinal communicating branches, He has ascertained, namely, that in the mam- the question has not hitherto been determined, malia the multipolar ganglion-cells of the ganglia because they are too long, and a trustworthy in the main cord of the sympathetic in the abdomen microscopic distinction between the two kinds of and thorax become continuous by means of their fibres is wanting. On the other hand, other obser- processes with the axis cylinder of nerve-fibres with vations favour the view that the multipolar cells dark borders, of such, too, as pass from the spinal are connected both with motor and sensory fibres, ganglia into the ganglia of the main cord. In man In ganglion-cells whose long axis is the same as and in the mammal, each ganglion in the main the long axis of the ganglion, there are frequently cord is connected, by at least two branches, with seen two fibres entering at one pole and two pass- spinal nerves. The under branch (ramus com- ing off from the other. If all four fibres were of niuuicans sj'mpathicus s. revehens) is, according to the same kind, the cell would then form an anas- his observations, gray, contains very fine (the fibres tomosis between fibres of the same kind, as has only of Bidder and Volkmann) nerve-fibres, and very once hitherto been observed by Leydig, as a variety many ganglion-fibres: it joins a spinal nerve for of the bipolar cells in the Casserian ganglion of peripherical distribution after it has at its place of Chimasra monstrosa. If, moreover, in a small entrance, sometimes close to the spinal ganglion, multipolar ganglion taken from the solar plexus of formed another ganglion consisting of multipolar a mammal (ox), the number and direction of the cells. The upper branch (ramus communicans nerves passing to and from it be compared with the spinalis, s. advehens) is white: it contains the fibres number and the direction of the processes of the which, according to Wiitzer, &c, may be followed cells, as seen on a transverse or longitudinal section to both roots of the spinal nerves. Remak has as of the ganglion, the fullest correspondence is found yet succeeded in seeing fibres of this branch enter to exist between them ; that is, in such a multipolar merely into the anterior root; the remainder, gene- ganglion each ganglion-cell is connected with rally the smaller number, are lost in the spinal nerve-fibres of all the nerves which are connected ganglion. The sensory fibres destined for the sym- with the ganglion. That in these cases, each of pathetic nerve must, therefore, as it appears, be- the nerves entering or leaving the ganglion con- come connected with cells of the spinal ganglia tains only sensory or only motor fibres is, however, before they pass into the main cord of the sympa- improbable for this reason, that in other multipolar thetic. The fibres of this spinal communicating sympathetic ganglia, — for example, the ciliary, branch either pass directly into the ganglia of the otic, and spheno-palatine,—we know that the enter- main cord, or they form in part separate white ing nerves contain sensory as well as motor fibres, bundles, which apply themselves to the cord, and If the sympathetic ganglion-cells serve as con- are lost in the next ganglion behind. Since, now, necting media between sensory and motor fibres, as transverse sections of the glangia in the main then the impressions made upon sympathetic sen- cord show, all entering spinal fibres become con- sory fibres may be transferred by these ganglion- nected one after another with multipolar glanglion- cells to sympathetic motory; through the medium cells, it follows that if the anterior roots of the of the spinal sensory communicating fibres they spinal nerves contain merely motor fibres, the will also be enabled to act upon the great central posterior merely sensory, the multipolar cells in organs (brain and spinal cord), and thence through the ganglia of the main cord are found as well in the spinal motory upon the sympathetic ganglion- the course of sensory as of motory nerve-fibres, cells and their motor processes. Besides the sym- Trom these cells there pass off in the peripherical pathetic sensory and sympathetic motory fibres, the direction both broad nerve-fibres with dark borders, assumption of a third set of sympathetic fibres, and fine fibres (fibres of Bidder and Volkmann), serving immediately for nutrition, is not required likewise others in which no dark borders can be by any fact in physiology, since it is possible to ex- observed. All these peripherical fibres may be plain the dependence of nutrition upon the nerves named sympathetic, in opposition to the spinal by the action of the latter upon the contractile fibres with which they are connected by means of walls of the blood-vessels.