356 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. compound membrane forming the diffusive septum in their experiments, would propor- tionately favour the resulting transit of the separated fluids. And since the continuous movement of the chyle is probably aided by forces independent of any mere act of dif- fusion, the force of suction thus added must itself conditionate a more active transit than that which they witnessed in the inert en- dosmometer. On the other hand, there are good reasons for regarding the reception of fatty matters as a much more complex phenomenon, and the result of what we may venture to call more vital processes. For the way in which ether and other solvents act upon the chyle appears to prove, that the fatty contents of its molecules are still oily; and not saponified, like such diffused fluids. And while the position of the capillary plexus, and the rapid- ity and quantity of its stream, render it pro- bable that any merely diffusive action would disproportionately affect the blood—which by the way is often more alkaline than the chyle -^-a chemical and physical comparison of these two fluids would seem to show that the re- verse is actually the case : that a larger quan- tity of fat is taken up by the lacteals than by the blood-vessels. This view is also con- firmed by the results of violent inflamma- tion *, or of great interference with the blood- vessels f : — changes, neither of which would probably have much direct effect on the physical action of an independent system of tubes, but which are nevertheless alleged entirely to pre- vent the formation of chyle. In any case, it would seem that there are strict limits to the quantity of fatty matter which can be absorbed. Hence when the amount of fat present in any particular region at all exceeds what its villi can take up, it is passed on to other portions of intestine ; failing absorption by which, it is ultimately discharged unchanged in the faeces. Intestinal Follictes.%—We pass on to the description of a class of structures which are essentially closed sacs; and which, represented in the stomach by the lenticular glands, pervade all the remainder of the intestinal canal under the two forms of solitary and agminate fol- licles : the latter being, as their name implies, essentially clusters of the former. Agminate follicles. — Of the very numer- ous § names which have been bestowed upon * Frerichs, Loc. cit. f Fenwick in " Lancet" for 1845, p. 64. J The etymology of the word "follicle " quite permits its application to these closed sacs : to which indeed it seems desirable that we should restrict it, in speaking of the various constituents of the intes- tinal mucous membrane. § Until a more uniform nomenclature is adopted, it seems advisable to enumerate a few of these names. Such are the titles of glandulce Peyerianae; agmina Peyeri; glandulx aggregates; glandulce agmi- nate ; vesicularum agmina;plexus intestinales; plaques gaufrees; and finally, Peyer's patches. The latter uncouth designation is, perhaps, that most com- monly made use of in this country. But as Peyer appears to have been anticipated by our countryman Grew in the discovery of these structures, there is the less need of clinging to one of those unmeaning these follicles, that above made use of seems preferable ; since it best connotes both their structure and arrangement. There are generally about twenty clusters of these agminate follicles scattered throughout the small intestine. Their shape is commonly that of an oval, having a length about twice its width. They are situated on the free border of the bowel, or opposite to the attachment of its mesentery; and usually correspond to about the lower three-fifths of the small intestine, or to that part of it which is regarded as the ileum. Hence they have been looked upon as, in a certain sense, characteristic of this region. But they some- times extend into the jejunum, being scattered sparingly throughout its lowest segments. And they may rarely be found even in the duodenum. In such cases, their entire number is usually about twice or thrice that of the average given above. But amid all their variations of number, size, and extent, the agminate follicles seem to retain a certain predominant relation to the end of the ileum. For it is here that they are both largest and most numerous. And while in the remainder of the small intestine, their length is usually rather under than over an inch, nothing is more common than to find the immediate neighbourhood of the ilio-cascal valve occupied by a single irregular cluster;— which has a length of two, three, or even four inches, and a width which carries it round fds or fths of the inner circumference of the intestinal tube. Fig. 267. Agminate follicles as seen by refected light. Magni- fied 4 diameters. {After Koelliher.') a, general mucous surface with villi; b, depres- sions leading to the several follicles; c, intervals between them, covered by small villi. On examining the mucous membrane of the surnames, which every practical teacher of anatomy will probably agree with the author in thinking very objectionable.