49 OVUM. In illustration of the most striking of these differences of size in the ova of animals, the following examples may he referred to: — The human ovum is a body not more than ^■i-j- of an inch in diameter ; so minute, in fact, that we can scarcely form any estimate of its weight or quantity of matter. Let us assume, what seems probable, that it weighs about TuVo °f a grain. Now, if we take the weight of a full-grown fetus as between six and seven pounds, or 45,000 grains, and the adult human body as about 120 or 130 lbs., or 900,000 grains, it appears that while the full- grown fetus bears the proportion of one- twentieth of the weight of the adult, the ovum is scarcely a thousand-millionth part. In the fowl, the entire egg, when newly laid, weighs about 2 ounces, or 900 grains, and is nearly one twenty-second part of the weight of the adult body, supposing it to be some- what under 3 lbs. The chick, produced by incubation, is about COO grains in weight, or about two-thirds of the egg, and is, there- fore, somewhat less than a thirtieth part of the weight of the adult. Again, let us take the weight of an osseous fish (as in a female cyclopterus lumpus recently measured by myself), at 9 lbs. 8 ounces, or G6,500 grains ; one of the ova, which were fully developed and filled two enormous ovaries, weighed one- seventh of a grain; and the fetus of such a fish, when it first leaves the egg, might pro- bably weigh not more than one-tenth of a grain ;so that the egg would be in the propor- tion of 1 to 500,000, as compared with the body of the fish. It is to be observed, however, that this great disparity of size belongs principally to the nutritive part of the egg, and that there is a nearer approach to uniformity in the size of the germinal vesicle ; but in this, too, we shall afterwards see that the size is greatest in the ova of the second group, in which the whole ovum attains the greatest magnitude. In the mammiferous ovum, the germinal vesicle is about ^r-i-j- or of an inch in diameter ; but in the fowl's egg it is of a diameter about ten times greater, and in cartilaginous fishes it is even of a somewhat larger size ; but still in no egg does this vesicle depart altogether from that small and almost microscopic magnitude which may be regarded as characteristic of the elementary organic structures. The size of the ovary, when full of developed ova, is also deserving of notice, as giving some over its long diameter, is stated to have been nearly three feet, and over its short diameter two feet four inches; its greatest length nearly thirteen inches. M. Isidore Geoffroy estimates that it must have contained 10^ quarts of substance, or nearly six times as much as an ostrich's egg, 118 times as much as an ordinary hen's egg, and 50,000 times as much as that of a humming bird. Notwithstand- ing, however, that in the class of birds there is a general correspondence between the size of the egg and the stature of the adult, this correspondence is not regular or constant, and Prof. Owen has illus- trated this fact in a striking manner by reference to the Apteryx of New Zealand, which produces a proportionally very large egg. Sup]). indication of the relative amount of repro- ductive power in the three groups before dis- tinguished. Thus, in the human species, the two ovaries weigh about 500 grains; in the fowl, when developed at the breeding season, the ovary, with its jolks, may weigh 1,500 grains ; and in the lump fish, above mentioned, the ovaries weighed together 3 lbs. and 3 ounces, or 22,300 grains. Thus the ovaries were to the body, in the first, as 1 to 1,800 ; in the second, as 1 to 13 ; and in the third, as 1 to 3.* The following table may serve to exhibit these proportions in a general way: — Weight in Grains of the — Ovum. Ovaries. Fcetus. Adult. Mammifer - 0001 500 45,000-0 900,000. Fowl - - 900-000 1500 600-0 20,000. Osseous fish - 0-135 22,300 O'l 06,500. Number of ova.—The number or quantity of the ova which the females of different animals are capable of producing in a given time, or during the whole of their lives, is so various, that only a very vague statement can be made in regard to it. The very great pro- ductiveness or fecundity of osseous fishes, and of many of the invertebrata, is well known. The ovary of the herring has been found to contain 25,000 ova. In the Cyclopterus lumpus, before referred to, the number of ova estimated as being contained in the ripe ovaries together was about 155,000; and in the ovaries of a Holibut or Hippoglossus, of 156 lbs. weight, I found about three and a half millions The queen ant of the African termites is said to lay 80,000 eggs in 24 hours : and the common hair worm, or Gor- dius, as many as 8,000,000 in less than a day. The Entozoa appear to produce the greatest number of all animals — a fact which is somewhat surprising, when we consider how few of these animals comparatively reach their adult condition. In many of the above animals this enormous production is not a single act, but is repeated again and again in successive seasons. In birds and those animals belonging to the second group, in which the eggs are propor- tionally of large size, comparatively few of the ova, of which the germs are visible in the ovaries, come to maturity; and in the natural state only a small number are productive. But it is well known that great variations may be caused in this respect by the condition of the animal ; and that in a state of domesticity, and under high feeding, a much greater num- ber of eggs may, in some birds, come to ma- turity, as in the common fowl, in some kinds of which, indeed, an egg is laid daily for two- thirds of the year — a production which would amount to upwards of 30 lbs. or ten times the weight of the whole animal; and, if * The Article " Zeugiuig" by Leuckart, con- tained in two parts of E. Wagner's Handwortcrbuch der Physiologic, and which I have only received since the above was written, may be consulted as containing fuller information on the same and the following subject. E