38 OVUM. nutest state of division, and as differing from ova in the absence of the germinal cell.* Notwithstanding the attractive ingenuity of these views, and the great weight which all must be disposed to attach to the statements of so accomplished an anatomist, the theory they involve or expound, when fully considered, does not appear entirely to remove the veil from the mystery of alternate generations, nor to afford that satisfactory ex- planation or generalisation of its nature which might be desired : for it is to be feared that under the appellation of nucleated cells, as applied to the structure of the lowest animals, very various kinds of organised structures have been confounded by authors, and we are certainly very far from having had de- termined, by actual observation, the nature or source of the minutely granular masses from which what has been called internal gemma- tion proceeds ; and though it may be admitted that most new structures take their origin in masses of blastema, more or less cellular and granular, the relation of these to the germ masses of the ovum are far from being ascer- tained. It may be granted, that in the case of the first brood of Aphides formed in the non-sexual way from the first individual im- mediately developed in the ovum, a residuum of germ-cells may have served as the original blastema of their germs ; but when we consider the inconceivably minute portions of this that are to pass to the next and to the successive generations up to nine or eleven, we seem to have to deal rather with a theory of the original pre-existence and " encasement of germs" than with a matter that we can ever hope to decide by observation : and in the greater number of the other instances of alternate generation, there is no possibility of tracing the origin of the germs of the new individuals formed by gemmation to the yolk or germ-mass, of which they are regarded as the included remains. Professor Owen has well remarked f, that " in the Vertebrated, and in the higher Inver- tebrated animals, only a single individual is propagated from each impregnated ovum. Organised beings might be divided into those in which the ovum is uniparous, and those in which it is multiparous. This is the first and widest or most general distinction which we have to consider in regard to generation, and in proportion as we may recognise its cause will be our insight into the true con- dition on which Parthenogenesis depends." But this distinction, notwithstanding its acknowledged importance, does not carry us any farther into the insight of the essential conditions of the phenomena by the theory of the residual germ-mass originating new germs; for when the greater part of this mass is con- verted into the textures and organs of the embryo directly developed from the ovum, there is still as great a difficulty as ever to understand what circumstances should de- termine a minute residuum, supposing it to * On Parthenogenesis, p. 38. f Loc. cit. p. G2. exist, to form an entire new individual, or a prodigious multitude of individuals, in place of only an additional portion of texture, or an additional organ, which n ;ght more nat- urally be regarded as the correlative products of their brethern germ-cells ; or why, in other numerous instances, in which, to all appear- ance, an equal quantity of residual germ-mass exists, no such formation of new individuals occurs. It appears equally fair to suppose that the germs of the ova of all animals must have originated within the ovaries of the female parents from residual germ-cells included in the blastema of these organs; but no dis- tinction has ever been established between that blastema in its primitive state and that of other organs of the body : and there does not appear to be better reason for consider- ing the germs of individuals formed by gem- mation, as derived more directly from residual and included germ-cells, than those of the ovarian ova. . I have not adopted the term Partheno- genesis, as applied to the alternate generations, because it implies that this kind of produc- tion occurs in female animals. Now, although the observations of Owen and V. Siebold have shown a remarkable similarity to the female structure in the case of the viviparous Aphides, this is altogether wanting in the other instances of alternate generations; and this process is strictly non-sexual rather than uni-sexual in its nature. Were it desirable to change the name for this process, the term " Metagenesis," suggested and sometimes employed by Professor Owen, seems well adapted to express exactly what occurs in alternate generations, without calling for the admission of any hypothesis beyond that of the new production being an act of genera- tion ; and it seems to me to be the most exact translation in scientific terminology that can be given of the German of Steenstrup in " Generations-Wechsel." In a convenient shape it is precisely descriptive of that change of form by generation, or by production of a new individual, which it has been my object to show has been accurately dis- tinguished in the general law of Steenstrup, as different from a mere change of form by growth or by metamorphosis in the same individual. At the same time it is deserving of no- tice, that, among the compound Polypina, the continuous multiplication of individuals proceeds to such an extent, and with such remarkable regularity, as to give rise to com- posite masses, often of very large size, the general arrangement of which bears a con- siderable resemblance to that of plants : and we are led still more to institute a comparison between these animals and plants by the cir- cumstance of the similarity of their continuous growth by the addition of new sets of polype individuals to the extension of the leaves and branches of a tree or ramified plant, and by the correspondence of the occasional forma- tion of sexual individuals on the polype stock