463 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. lie parallel to one another, as in the ordinary muscles, but cross one another in different di- rections, many of the bundles being at the same time observed to present a more or less branching character. The branches or divi- sions of one bundle cross those of neighbour- ing bundles. In this manner the fibres form a number of reticulated layers laid over one another, while at the same time bundles pass from one layer into the adjacent layers, so that a more or less complete intermixture of the fibres takes place. The fibres composing the ventricles also present more or less of this re- ticulate arrangement. Moreover, many of the fibres of the auricles pass into those of the ventricle, and vice verm. In virtue of such an arrangement of the fibres, stimulus applied to one part of the heart gives rise to a contrac- tion in the bundle to which it is applied : since this crosses neighbouring bundles its con- traction acts as a stimulus to these, in obe- dience to which they also contract. In this manner, the contraction is not limited to the fibre, or bundle of fibres, to which the stimulus is first applied, but extends over the entire mass. So also the contraction of the fibres, which are described as passing between the auri- cles and ventricles, stimulate the fibres of which the latter are composed, giving rise to a ge- neral contraction in them also ; and in this way the successive contraction of auricles and ventricles is produced. According to Schiftj as mentioned by Valentin, the movements of the heart may be reduced to the peri- staltic or vermicular type. He holds that in a certain part of the muscular substance are contained the nerves which preside over the movements of neighbouring bundles. When this contracts, a stimulus is thereby given to the nerves which supply the portion of the muscular substance immediately suc- ceeding ; so that in this manner a number of progressive contractions of the successive bundles of fibres are produced. The contrac- tion of the auricles or ventricles is thus not a single simultaneous act; but is made up of a great number of contractions succeeding one another, in the same manner as is seen in the contraction of the intestine. It is the rapidity with which they follow one another that gives rise to the appearance of their being simul- taneous. These contractions travel from auricle to ventricle, giving rise to the successive contractions of these parts. He finds that when a ring of the muscular substance at the base of the ventricle in the frog's heart is brought, by local application of the galvanic stimulus, into a state of continued or spas- modic contraction, the due rhythm between the contraction of the auricles and the part of the ventricle below the contracted portion ceases. When a spasmodic contraction is produced in a part of the ventricle by ex- ternal stimulus this part may be irritated without giving rise to any general contraction. He also funis that when a portion of the ventricle of a heart which still retains its ir- ritability, is stimulated, the contraction is sometimes seen to take place in this before it takes place in the other portions ; the stimu- lated portion is also the part which first be- comes relaxed in the diastole of the organ. In opposition to the view above mentioned Volkmann* maintains that the movements of the heart cannot depend upon the central nervous masses. It continues its pulsations after the brain and spinal cord have been removed. When, however, the rhythmical movements of a part depend upon a nervous centre, they cease immediately after the con- nection between these parts and the nervous centre is broken. The rhythmical movements of the muscles of respiration depend upon a nervous centre, the medulla oblongata. So soon as this is destroyed they cease. In like manner the heart, were the medulla oblongata, or any other part of the central masses of the nervous system the centre upon which its movements depend, must also cease pulsating so soon as it is removed from the influence of these. According to the experiments of Bidder, however, already mentioned, frogs may live for six weeks after the spinal cord has been destroyed, the circulation, as seen in the web of the foot, going on as livelily as before, and presenting no difference when compared with that in the healthy animal. So also when the entire central masses of the nervous system are removed the heart still continues its pulsations until the second day. The movements exhibited by the heart, after the central masses of the nervous system have been destroyed, cannot, according to Volkmann, be explained as mere movements of irritation, due to the inherent irritability of the muscular fibres, acted on by the stimulus of the blood or of the atmospheric air. Mere irritability, acted on by the stimulus of the blood, or of the air, cannot explain why both auricles or both ventricles should contract at one and the same time; and just as little can we in this way explain the suc- cessive contraction of auricles and ventricles. To explain the rhythmical order in which these contractions take place it is necessary to sup- pose that they, like movements of a similar kind, such as those of the respiratory muscles, are regulated by a nervous centre. The fact that the heart's movements continue after it has been removed from the body indicates, moreover, that the centre upon which its movements depend must be contained in the organ itself. It has been already mentioned that in different parts of the heart are found small ganglia. These are believed by Volk- mann to be the centres on which its move- ments depend. These, according to him, act as organs from which the impulse to contrac- tion proceeds : they are also so connected with one another as to act in concert, the impulses proceeding in such directions as to give rise to the regular succession in which the contractions of the different parts take place. The effects produced upon the heart's action by stimuli applied to the central masses of the nervous system, and upon which the * Loc. cit. p. 61G. &c.