London: LONGMAN, BKOWN, and CO., Paternoster Eow. COMPLETION OF DR. COPLAND'S MEDICAL DICTIONARY. Just published, Parts XIX. and XX. (a double Part, completion, with classified Contents and a copious Index) price 9s. sewed; and Volume III. (in two Parts) 8vo. price £2. lis. cloth, A DICTIONARY COMPRISING GENERAL PATHOLOGY, TnE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF DISEASES, MORBID STRUCTURES, AND THE DISORDERS ESPECIALLY INCIDENTAL TO CLIMATES, TO SEX, AND TO THE DIFFERENT EPOCHS OF LIFE; WITH NUMEROUS APPROVED FORMULA OF THE MEDICINES RECOMMENDED, ETC. By JAMES COPLAND, M.D. F.U.S. &c. [£|r Vols. I. and II., price 60s. cloth, may also be had : and the Work complete in 3 vols, price £5. lis. cloth. — The Pakts may at present be had separately; but the Publishers will be obliged by the Subscribers perfecting their sets with as little delay as possible. rPHIS Work, which has been so long in the -L press, and of which the greater part has been lonir before the medical profession anil public, is now completed. Its extensive scope, and the comprehen- sive views taken of the numerous subjects comprised in it, entitle it to be named an Encyclopaedia of the Principles and Practice of Medicine, rather than a Dictionary merely. The author has prefixed to the work an extensive classification of its contents, with the view of directing the reader, and especially the stu- dent of medicine, to commence with those subjects which are elementary, so that he may comprehend more fully, and profit the more by the study of, what should successively follow. This object is kept in view throughout. The simpler and less complicated subjects piecede, in this classification, the more com- plex ; the slighter forms of disease introducing those which are more malignant and dangerous. The principles of pathology form an important part of the work, and are commenced with an arranged exposition of the causes of disease. The operation of these causes upon the vital force, and the effects pro- duced by them, are viewed in ultimate connexion with, and dependence upon, the nature of the causes. After a full discussion of these subjects, and a minute exposition of the organic changes to which the indi- vidual textures and organs are liable, the author exhibits a view of the signs and symptoms by which morbid actions and changes may be inferred, indi- vidual diseases recognised, and their successive stages and states ascertained. Having set forth the causes, the operation of the causes, the effects pro- duced by them, and the symptoms and signs by which the nature and progress of the effects are manifested, he then developes the general and special principles of therapeutics, and enumerates and classifies therapeutic agents, conformably with their physiological and practical operations. Thus prepared for the consideration of the indi- vidual species and forms of disease, the author com- mences, by means of his arrangement, with the slighter disorders, and advances successively to the more severe, to the more malignant and complicated, and ultimately to the most dangerous and fatal. When describing each species or form of disease, the simple and uncomplicated states of it are first con- sidered, and afterwards, the most frequent associa- tions and complications presented by it in practice. The causes, the diagnosis, the prognosis, the termina- tion, the appearances observed in fatal cases, the pre- vention and the treatment of each malady, are fully discussed; and the remedies required, and the modes of combining them, are shown and illustrated by numerous prescriptions and formula;. Each sub- ject is concluded with an historical bibliography and references to the best authorities. The descriptions of diseases, and of their patho- logical and therapeutical relations, have been based upon the author's own observations. Having devoted many years to the preparatory and actual study of the medical sciences, he subsequently observed closely the diseases of temperate and warm climates ; and his public and private practice for many years has furnished him with sufficiently numerous op- portunities of observing and of treating the diseases incidental to sex, to all ages, and to all circumstances of life and of employment. His work furnishes, in numerous places, proofs of original views and doc- trines of disease, of novel modes of treatment, and of successful means and methods of cure, especially in the most severe and dangerous states of disease. But whilst he adduceshis own doctrines, descriptions, and treatment, he does not neglect the views of, and the means advised by, other writers. On the con- trary, he refers to the most eminent, and, whilst he notices apparently opposed opinions, he often reconciles them, by showing that different s'ates, stages, and epidemic prevalences, require very dif- ferent or even opposite remedies and methods of cure. In addition to a full exposition of every morbid condition, and of all the specific forms and compli- cations of disease, the author has described the physiological and morbid action of poisonous sub- stances, and the best means of preventing, of counter- acting,and of remedying their effects. prevention of disease has also received due attention in several articles devoted especially to this object. In addition to the classified contents, and to an appendix of nu- merous medical formula', he has further appended to his work a most copious index, compiled by himself. To this work the author has devoted the long period of thirty years; it contains the results of his obser- vations, his researches, and his practice; and, as a proof of the estimation in which the parts previously published have been held abroad, it may be staled that the author has been presented with the honorary fellowships of the principal academies of science and learned societies on the continent of Europe and in America. In announcing the completion of this great undertaking, the. Publishers feel that the// mag con- graiulate the Author on having accomplished a work which in itself is a monument to his learning, laborious research, and unwearied perseverance. " XT IS ideas, his doctrines, his descriptions, " TN Dr. Copland's Dictionary of Practical A-l and his instructions are conveyed in language J- Medicine we see a reflex of German erudition, at once terse, clear, forcible, and condensed ; and his French acuteness, and British practical common whole work is in itself a library of pathological doc- sense. It has long had an European reputation, and trine and therapeutical lore, of which English litera- will, we have no doubt, successfully maintain what ture has every reason to be proud." it has taken its author so much patient (rouble to Medical Times and Gazette. acquire." Lancet.