57 OVUM. Relation of the ova and ovaries in Mammalia. A. {From Coste, as reduced by Longet.) Human ovary, enlarged four diameters, partially dissected at ooo, to show the Graafian follicles in the ovarian stroma: one of these, more advanced", has had its double tunic, o v, cut into and reflected; the granular membrane, m g, has also been partially opened, showing the thickened portion or granular disc, dg, in which the ovum is imbedded near the most projecting part. At o v>, another Graafian follicle has been burst, and the ovum in its granular disc is seen expelied from it. b. Transverse section of human ovary, to show the general arrangement of the developed Graafian follicles towards the surface; twice the natural size. c. Diagrammatic representation, in section, of two,Graafian follicles, in different stages of advance- ment in the ovary of a mammifer, enlarged about ten diameters, p. Peritoneal covering of the ovary, si, ovarian stroma; o v, the two layers of the ovisac; mg, membrana granulosa, near which is the discus granulosus, with the ovum imbedded. stroma ; and it has been observed, that these are present from a very early period in the ovaries, as first noticed by Cams, and since by myself and others in the child at birth. The more developed of these ovi-capsules are enclosed by a strong theca or membrane, consisting of two layers ; the external thinner and firmer, of a fibrous and vascular struc- ture, the internal thicker and softer, of a fibro-cellular structure and also of consider- able vascularity. The capsules are filled with a fluid nearly transparent, which coagulates under the action of heat ; and inside the theca, or lining it and covering the fluid, there is a layer of nucleated cells united together in the form of a soft, easily-lacerated membrane, somewhat like an epithelial lining of the cap- sule. It is in this cellular layer {tunica gra- nulosa of Von Baer) that the ovum is placed, being situated in the thicker portion of it (cumulus pro/igerus), directed towards the surface of the ovary. When one of the ovicapsules and its con- tained ovule has reached maturity, which takes place in one or more of them at regu- larly recurrent periods, besides the swelling of the ovicapsule itself from the increase of its fluid and other causes, the stroma of the ovary between the capsule and the surface undergoes considerable thinning, and the ovi- capsule comes thus to project more imme- diately from the surface of the ovary. An increased vascularity is also apparent in the same situation ; and finally a small circum- scribed fissure near the middle of the most projecting part occurs, allowing the escape of the ovule and the granular layer and fluid from the ovicapsule. The ovule, surrounded by a portion of the cellular layer in which it was embedded, is