OVUM. 34 process among animals higher in the scale, but in them of an exceptional character, has long been known to occur in the various species of the common plant-louse, or Aphis, first dis- covered by Reaumur * and Bonnet f, and confirmed and more fully illustrated by a variety of accurate entomologists in more recent times. In this animal, successive gener- ations, amounting each to a considerable num- ber, and in the Aphis lanigera % averaging about a hundred, are produced for seven, nine, or eleven times, according to the species, from parents of no sex, or rather which seem to possess the structure of females imper- fectly developed. The course of the gene- rative process is the following: perfect male and female winged insects are observed only towards the autumn season: these fly about in great quantities, the impregnated females deposit their eggs covered with a protecting case of mucus in the axils and other recesses of plants, where they remain during the winter. In spring there are developed from these ova a brood of larvae, or imperfect female Aphides, which soon produce, by an act of viviparous generation, and without any concurrence of the male sex, a progeny of a similar kind, and this is repeated, in successive generations, for nine or ten times in the common species, or for ten or twelve weeks during the summer, at the end of which time the last brood brings forth male and perfect female individuals, both of which die after having provided by the production of fecundated ova for the con- tinued generation during the next season. Upon the discovery of this very remarkable mode of reproduction, various theoretical con- jectures were made in regard to its nature ; but no satisfactory explanation presented itself, till the knowledge of the general nature of the process of non-sexual larvation came to be brought under a general principle or law. It is now obvious that the production of the successive generations of Aphis-larvae may be regarded as an instance of the multi- plication of individuals from the product of a single ovum, previous to the development of the true sexual organs and the exercise of the sexual functions. But this example of non- sexual larvation deserves attention, not only from its occurrence among animals placed so high in the zoological scale of organisation as insects, but also from the degree of perfection of the larvae themselves, and from the circum- stance that the new broods are formed, not recent observations, the parent or stock individuals of both Syllis prolifera and Nais proboscidea arrive ultimately at sexual perfection after having given off a number of sexual individuals by the caudal gemmation. See Leuckart on Metamorphosis, Non- sexual Reproduction and Alternate Generations, in Zeitsch. fur Wissensch. Zool. 1851, in which he refers to Frey and Leuckart, in Beitrage z'ur Kennt- niss Wirbellos. Thiere, p. 9G; and to Schultze, in Archiv. fur Naturgesch, 1849, p. 287, for observa- tions proving this fact. * Histoire des Inseetes, Tom. iii. Paris, 1738. f Traite" dTnsectologie ou Observations sur les Pucerons, 8vo, 1745. % See Owen's Lect. on the Invertebrate Animals, 1843, p. 235. as in the other examples of this process to which the attention of the reader has already been directed, by a division of the whole body, or by gemmation from its external or internal substance, but from germs arising within a determinate organ, corresponding in its general form and anatomical relation, though not entirely similar, to the generative organ of the perfect female.* The genital organs of the viviparous or larval Aphides differ from those of the perfect or oviparous females, principally in the want of the receptaculum seminis, and the organ which secretes the mucous investment for the ova, and there is also some difference in the form of the ovarium, or germiparous part of the organs, j The gradual development of the larva brood within the oviduct of the viviparous parent has been traced carefully by several observers. J. Victor Cams has attempted to show that this process is to be distinguished from the usual process of development from an ovum by the absence of cell multiplication, and by the formation of the embryo of the larva from a merely granular germ : but more recently LeydigJ has shown that though there may be differences in the structure and mode of de- velopment of the ovum and of the viviparous germ, the latter arises as truly as the former from cellular elements. The uppermost com- partment of the oviduct contains, according to Leydig, from eight to twelve distinct nu- cleated cells, together with a quantity of finely granular substance. One of these cells appears to descend into the second compart- ment, in which an outer layer of cells exists, with finely granular substance internally : in the third compartment the cells of the outer layer have become still smaller and more numerous, and have formed, in fact, a covering to the germ, similar to that which proceeds from cleavage in the ovum. The rudiments of the internal organs now begin to be distinguishable, and the various external organs are successively developed out of the cellular mass. The cel- lular structure of the ovum of insects is at all times difficult to be traced in the earlier stages of development ; and it seems to be established by these observations that the origin of the embryonic structures from cells is at least as obvious in the viviparous as in the oviparous germ (see j<?g. 30. b.). General Remarks on Alternate Generations.— Having now shortly described the principal varieties of the reproductive process which may be brought under Steenstrup's law of " Alternate Generation," it may be proper to review very briefly their general nature. * It is conjectured by Von Siebold (Vergleieh. Anat. der Wirbellos. Thiere, p. 634), that the same mode of production may occur also in some kinds of Cynips and Psyche. f See the interesting observations of Owen, in Parthenogenesis, p. 38., and elsewhere; V. Siebold, Vergleieh. Anat. and Froriep's Neue Notizen, vol. xii. p. 308; and J. Victor Cams, Ztir nahern Kenntniss des Generations-Wechsels, Leipzig, 1849. X V. Siebold and Kolliker's Zeitsch. fiir Wissen- schaftliehe Zoologie, vol. ii. p. 53.