SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 418 main or gangliated cord they all run in a downward direction towards the pelvic ex- Fig. 2S4. Fibres from the root of intercostal nerve of a Rabbit. Towards c (in fig. 293.), the nerve chiefly con- sisted of fibres similar to those indicated by b ; towards b it consisted chiefly of broad fibres, a. ; o fibres from the communicating branch. (Mag. 250 diam.) tremity, none passing upwards towards the cephalic extremity. After thus running for a greater or shorter distance in the main cord, they then pass off from it in the peripherical branches, the point at which they leave the cord being always situated lower down than the point at which they entered it. This arrangement was termed by him the lex pro- gresssus: he endeavoured to support it by experiments on the motory action of the fibres contained in the sympathetic, showing that when different parts of the cerebro-spinal axis, as well as the rami communicantes, are irritated, the contractions produced in the viscera follow a certain order, which favours the opinion that the fibres are disposed in the manner he states. This view is opposed by Bidder and Volkmann*, on the ground that it is at variance with what is actually ob- served in regard to the course of these fibres on joining the sympathetic. On examining with the microscope the communicating branch at Us point of junction with the sym- pathetic, they find that in so far as it consists of cerebro-spinal fibres it divides into two portions, one of which is directed downwards in the direction of the pelvis, while the other passes upwards towards the head. In small animals, such as the rabbit or mouse, it is not difficult, when one of the thoracic commu- nicating branches is examined with the micro- scope, to observe that the fibres are disposed in the manner in which Volkmann and Bidder describe, some passing upwards, others down- wards into the main cord of the sympathetic, and in which they may be traced for some distance, and, according to Kolliker, into the peripheral branches. That they all gradually pass oiF from the main trunk of the sympa- thetic into its peripheral branches is pro- bable, as Kolliker observes, from the fact that most of these contain a greater or smaller number of fibres resembling those in question. Peripherical Distribution. — The different branches of the sympathetic contain the same structures as those which have been already described as constituting the main trunk of the nerve, viz. broader and finer tubular nerve- fibres and fibres of Remak. These, however, vary in the proportion in which they are pre- sent in the different branches. In the whiter branches of the sympathetic, such as the splanchnic nerves, the number of tubular nerve-fibres, as compared with the number of the fibres of Remak, is much the same as in the main trunk. The grayer branches, on the other hand, such as the ascending or carotid branches of the superior cervical gan- glion, the nervi molles as well as the arterial branches generally contain a large number of the fibres of Remak. Many of them appear to be entirely composed of these and fine tubular fibres. The nerves which are distri- buted to the heart are also chiefly composed of fine tubular fibres and fibres of Remak. In the heart of the sheep many of the branches which run along the surface of the ventricles are chiefly composed of the latter variety of fibres, there being few tubular fibres present. As already mentioned, numerous small gan- glia have been described by Remak as oc- curring on the cardiac nerves, both on the surface and also in the substance of the organ. As regards the fibres on the inner surface of the heart, they cannot be distinguished by the naked eye. If, however, the lining membrane is dissected carefully ofi° from the muscular substance, and then, after addition of diluted solution of soda, examined with a power of 250 diameters, they may frequently be ob- served. They consist of tubular nerve-fibres belonging to the finer variety, and are arranged * Die Selbstandegkeit, &c, p. 31.