TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 479 appears, the tertiary rays disappearing first, and then the secondary, &c, until at last the cavity is circular as at the apex. The boun- dary of the quill cavity is immediately formed by medullary substance ; but the cortical sub- stance follows to a certain extent the con- tour of the inner cavity, so that in a transverse section of the middle of the quill the cortical substance presents the same general outline as the medullary, though its processes and insee- tions are less marked. In the adult condition, the central cavity is filled by an irregular horny mass, which Reichert and Bl ocker regard as the dried-up pulp, but which is probably, as in the feather {vide infra), simply the last horny product of the pulp, filling up the space which the latter once occupied ; for it is certain that every por- tion of the porcupine quill has, like every por- tion of a feather, at one time constituted a cap over the corresponding portion of its pulp. The pulp, in fact, commences like that of a feather, as a smooth conical process upon which the apex of the quill is moulded. As it grows, however, the pulp assumes an angular form, and then, as that of a feather would do, becomes produced into lamella?. By the constant production of new elements at the surface of these lamella; and their cornification, the "quill" is produced, and retains internally the impression of the mould on which it was formed. Apart from the arrangement of the lamella?, the principal difference from a feather which the " quill" presents, is simply that it does not, as it is formed, split up along the lines of the lamella? of the pulp. In its main features, the process of deve- lopment of feathers is identical with that of hairs. A solid diverticulum of the ecderon is first formed, within which the primary change consists in the metamorphosis of cer- tain Inedian cells into a cone composed of horny plates. There is thus formed, as in the hair, an outer rootsheath, resembling and con- tinuous with the rcte mucosum, an inner root- sheath, and a central papilla, the so-called matrix of the feather (fig. 306.). The horny rootsheath {fig. 306. c) attains a very considerable thickness, and instead of stopping short of the mouth of the sac, as in the hair, its outer end is for a considerable time pushed forwards by its basal growth pari passu with that of the feather; so that it eventually projects for a considerable dis- tance beyond the surface. Finally,it opens and allows oi'the passage of the feather, which grows through it, the homy layer ultimately forming a true rootsheath around the quill. Like the rootsheath of the hair, this structure consists of two layers, an outer (c), denser and harder, and an inner (d), softer and more flexible. The latter from being marked by the projec- ting barbs of the young feather has been called the striated sheath. Both layers, however, have the same essential structure, being composed of rounded or polygonal horny plates, whose endoplasts are often distinctly retained even in the outer layers. The histological meta- morphosis of the feather will be described below, but the manner in which it acquires its ultimate complex general figure requires r attention. Referring for further de- Fig. 306. Sectional view of feather in its sac : Fowl, e, barb; /, pulp ; g, venal. tails to the article Aves, I may state here, that every feather consists of the following parts :— the quill continuous with the shaft, or central axis of the feather, which supports the hori- zontally expanded vane, consisting of numerous long, narrow, flattened lamina? ; the barbs or primary rays, pointed at their extremities and arranged with their edges upwards and down- wards more or less perpendicularly on the shaft. Arranged in a similar manner on the barbs, are the barbu/cs, which therefore are disposed more or less parallel to the shaft ; from the sides of these, lastly, project short, toothed, curved, interlocking processes. All parts of the feather are solid, except the quill, which is hollow and occupied only by a dry shrivelled mass, the pith, in its upper part, while below, during life.it receives the pulp. Superiorly, on the under side, where the quill joins the shaft, there is a small aperture, which communicates with the interior, with a short canal in the shaft, and with a groove which runs along its under surface. It may be well to remember that the apex of a barbule resembles in structure one of its own processes ; that of a barb, one of its bar- bules ; that of the shaft, one of its barbs. The development of this complicated organ from its matrix or pulp takes place very simply, by a sort of exaggeration of the com- bination of hair development with that of the