PELVIS. markable, as constituting the different pelvic properties of certain classes of animals. It will also be observed that the transverse diameter of the brim is the greatest in the dry bones, but this is so diminished by the presence of the iliac and psoas muscles and fascia, that, in the living female subject, the oblique is generally the best adapted to receive the long diameter of the fcetal skull. The soft structures diminish the antero- posterior diameters of the brim by about a quarter of an inch,and the transverse, by half an inch ; the diameters of the cavity being lessened about a quarter of an inch ; a fact which it is necessary to bear in mind in estimating the width in the living subject. The measure- ments in the third double column were taken from fourteen male and eighteen female sub- jects in the dissecting room of King's College, London, and are compared in the first column with the contrasted measure- ments of the male and female pelvis given by Meckel, and quoted by most English writers on the subject; and in the second column with those given by John James Watt, in his work on the pelvis. in. lines. 4 6 lines. o 5 4 » 8 4 4 5 b 3 2 4 4 Diameters. Of the brim—Transverse Oblique ... Antero-posterior Of the cavity—Transverse Oblique ... Antero-posterior Of the inferior strait—Transverse (inter-sciatic) Oblique Antero-posterior Measurements. Between the anterior superior iliac spines - - - - Between the centres of iliac crests Depth of true pelvis — Between the upper and lower border of symphysis pubis Between the ilio-pectineal eminence and ischial tu- berosity ..... Between the sacral promontory and tip of coccyx Depth of whole pelvis—Between the iliac crest and ischial tuberosity Between the anterior superior iliac spine and ischial tuberosity „ posterior superior iliac spine and ischial tuberosity Between the lower border of pubic symphysis and sacral promontory „ spines of ischia ..... „ sacro-iliac joints (greatest breadth of sacrum) Male. 3 0 3 3 7 8 8 3 Male. in. line: 4 6 4 2 4 0 3 0 9 0 1 10 10 10 Female, in. lines. 5 6 5 0 4 9 • 4 0b 4 6 11 0 Mile. in. lines. 4 7 4 8 8 8 Female. in. lines 5 2 5 0 4 5" 4 8 4 4 b 4 0 4 0 c 10 0 1 7 3 8 j 5 in.to I 6 in. 7 5' 6 0 5 5 4 7 4 3 4 8< » 4 inches (Burns, Eamsbotham, Lee, Cloquet, Yclpcau, and Baudelocque). Boivin). 4"3 inches (Rigby). •> 4 inches (Burns, Lee, and Cloquet). 4^ inches (Monro and Murphy). c Increased to 5 inches or more by the mobility of the coccyx. d 10 inches (Burns). 9-G inches (Cloquet). « 10 inches (Cloquet). 11 inches (Burns). ' 7 inches (Cloquet). e 4 to ih inches (Cloquet). 4A inches (Monro and The circumferential measurement of the brim in well-formed males gave in my own mea- surements 2 inches to each of the ilia, 3 inches to each of the pubes, and 44 to the sacrum, which, allowing \ inch to each of the sacro- iliac cartilages and ^ inch to the pubic, gives a total circumference of 15^ inches. In the well-made female the ilia were found to be each 2^, the pubes each 3J, and the sacrum 6 inches, giving, with the same allowance lor the sacro-iliac cartilages and £ inch for the pubic, a total of 17$ inches. Thus the superior size of the brim in the female seems to depend more upon the ilia than upon the pubes, although the direct distance between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the sacro-iliac joint differs little in the sexes, because of the greater curve made by the female ilia. The circumferential extent of the borders, at the plane of the inferior outlet in a female pel vis of average diameters, and dried with thesacro- sciatic ligaments attached, was 1+inches. In the fresh state it generally amounts to 1 o, as the ligaments shrink by drying, and would be extended to 10 inches, or more, by the ex- tension of the coccyx and the elasticity of the ligamentous portions.* * The circumferential measurement appears to be one not generally estimated as much as its utility in detecting variations of size depending upon slmpe would seem to call tor. in the female pelvis. A reference to the subjoined table of variations of dia-