UTERUS — (Abnormal Anatomy). 693 of that structure, including a variable propor- tion of the subbing cervical fibrous tissue. In size they range from a pea to a walnut, and occasionally their peduncle measures se- veral inches in length, so that they may pn> Fig. 478. Pedunculated polypus of the cervix uteri. {After Boivin and Duges.) trude to a considerable distance beyond the vulva. Their form is generally that of an elongated pear. The surface is smooth, though not uniform, being usually nodulated orlobed, and in parts roughened by minute papillary growths. Sometimes one or two of the cer- vical folds or rugae, scarcely altered in cha- racter from their ordinary condition in the healthy cervix, are distinctly visible upon them. These more solid tumours are covered by cylinder or pavement epithelium and hy- pertrophied mucous membrane. Internally they are composed of loose inelastic fibrous tissue, containing a few enlarged and ob- structed follicles, one or two of which may grow more than the rest, and form a cavity distended by a slimy fluid. The growth of both these forms appears to be limited, and they never attain to the size which the fibrous polypi often reach. With the hypertrophies of the follicular structures are also to be classed those single cysts, of the size of a pea, or larger, and sometimes pedunculated, which are very commonly found lying between the cervical folds, or protrud- ing from the os uteri. These consist almost exclusively of distended Nabothian follicles. c. Hypertrophy of the filiform papillce of the cervix. — A variety in the condition of the filiform papillce upon the vaginal portion of the cervix has been described at p. 639. These papilla?, nstead of being short, and covered by pavement epithelium up to the very margin of the os uteri, as they are upon the rest of the cervical lips, may present the same condition which they have within the cervix, where they are longer and larger, and are not bound down by a continuous lay er of covering epithelium. These papillae often appear at the margin of the os, and form there little tufts, or extend over the lips of the cervix in the crescentic manner already described at p. 639. They then constitute one of those conditions to which, in the pre- sent day, the term ulceration is very fre- quently applied ; yet there is no more reason for asserting that these are pathological for- mations or conditions, than there is for as- serting the same of the villi within the canal, for both are identical in form. They can only be regarded as pathological structures when they obviously exceed the natural conditions already described. Then, indeed, they may be classed among the hypertrophies of special structures of the ceivix, and they will bear the same relation to the natural papillae, that the hypertrophied follicular structures, form- ing the cysts and poly pi recently described, bear to the cervical follicles in a healthy con- dition. Both the hypertrophied and the na- tural papillae give to the finger that peculiar velvety or mossy sensation which is usually classed among the diagnostic signs of ulcera- tion of the os uteri. d. Simjile inflammatory hypertrophy, with extroversion of the cervical mucous membrane, — The mucous membrane lining the canal of the cervix uteri under chronic inflammation becomes frequently partly everted, so that a portion of the inner surface of one or both walls of the neck is rendered visible at the lower orifice, taking here the place ordinarily occupied by the inner border of the lips of the os tincae. This affection is usually com- bined with a corresponding hypertrophy of the proper tissue of the cervix, and may be compared in its effects to that thickening of the upper lip common in strumous children, which causes the part to become everted. Figures 7. and 8. Plate IX. in Boivin and Duges' Atlas represent an extreme degree of this affection, in which the cervical mucous membrane protrudes to an unusual extent, so that the palmae plicatae and middle raphe on both sides are seen. In the more common minor degree of hypertrophy with eversion, a crescentic protrusion only of the cervical mu- cous lining occurs. The unevenness of the surface, caused by the slightly swollen and prominent rugae, and as often by the numerous little depressions consisting of enlarged mu- cous crypts, according as one or the other of these is the predominant normal structure in the cervix *, gives to the part during life the appearance of a raw or granular surface, while * For a description of these varieties, see p. 640. Y Y 3