83 PANCREAS. G 2 creas has been described by anatomists as possessing a body and two extremities; and of these extremities one, which is enlarged and clubbed, has been called the head; the other, tapering and acuminated, has been called the tail; the middle portion, the great mass of the gland, being the body: other describers* have suppressed the body altogether, and de- scribed as the tail all that portion which is not included in the curved intumescence at the right extremity, which they designate the head. Indeed the imaginations of anatomists have been largely drawn on to supply analogies whereby to illustrate the shape of this organ. Some have compared it to a hammer,— some to a dog's tongue; among them all I think the best is that which compares it to a pistol. But, passing by these fanciful resemblances, the pancreas, from its transverse elongation and antero-posterior flattening, presents for description a right and left extremity, an upper and lower border, and an anterior and posterior surface ; and these parts 1 shall de- scribe in succession in the order in which I have mentioned them. The right extremity, to which the name head has been assigned, is that portion which is engaged in the duodenal curvature, ami to which, from its occasional separation from the rest of the gland, the name of leaser pancreas has also been givenf: it differs from the rest of the gland in being thicker and more mas- sive, curved instead of straight, and situated on a more posterior plane. It is thus formed : —when the pancreas, in passing from left to right, has arrived at the duodenum, it be- comes closely attached to that viscus, and follows its course, first downwards, and then to the left, passing by its extremity, behind the superior mesenteric vessels, for which it thus forms a sort of groove or channel. It is by the fusion and massing of this curvature that the head is formed ; but in very young subjects, and in the lower animals, the curva- ture of the pancreas is as conspicuous as that of the duodenum, and by separating it from its attachments, and straightening it out, all ap- pearance of head vanishes, and it becomes a long prism, or flattened cylinder of even thick- ness throughout. In the human adult, however, it is impos- sible thus to unravel and straighten the right extremity; and the fusion of the parts has often proceeded to such an extent as entirely to obliterate the original curvature, the groove for the vena porta? and superior mesenteric vessels being the only trace of its concavity. The left extremity gradually tapers, getting both narrower and thinner ; it is sometimes bifurcated, sometimes blunted and flattened against the spleen, and sometimes slightly enlarged ; it presents nothing for special de- scription. The upper border is much thicker than the lower, so much so, that some anatomists have described the gland as being prismatic. * Meckel, Manuel d'Anatomie. t Some anatomists, as Professor Ellis, make tlie hrad synonymous with the lesser pancreas, inde- pendently of this separation. In the middle the cceliac axis rests upon it ; to the right the hepatic artery and first portion of the duodenum are in contact with it, and to the left it is deeply grooved by the splenic artery. This groove does not run along the top of the border, parallel to it, but crosses it ob- liquely from behind forwards as it passes to the left extremity, curving over it, as it were, so that while the commencement of the ar- tery is behind the pancreas, its terminal branches are in front (see fig. 54-.). Some- times this groove is converted into a canal, by the gland closing over it. The lower border, much thinner, is tilted rather forwards to the right, by the passage of the superior mesenteric vessels beneath it, which separate it from the third portion of the duodenum ; on the left the inferior me- senteric vein passes beneath it to join the splenic. The anterior surface looks upwards as well as forwards, and is convex both transversely and longitudinally ; it is the only portion of the gland that is covered by peritoneum : from this circumstance, as well as from its being the free surface, it is very smooth. The posterior surface contrasts strongly with the anterior, for being uncovered by peri- toneum, and closely applied to all those struc- tures against which it lies, it presents many irregular elevations and depressions, corre- sponding with the uneven surface which these structures contribute to form. Size and uwight. — The size and weight of the pancreas are liable to great variety, and hence different authors have stated them very variously. Wharton* gives its weight as five ounces; Meckel, from four to six ; Cruveilhier states its limit as six ounces, but thinks that a healthy pancreas may be as small as two ounces and a half; Scemmerring also considers six ounces a maximum, but carries his minimum as low as an ounce and a half. According to Krause and Glendinning, its usual weight is from two and a quarter to three and a half ounces. Its size is stated by Meckel as six inches long and one thick; Ellis gives its length as seven inches ; Quain and Shaipey, from six to eight inches, with an average breadth of an inch and a half; according to Wharton, its length is about five inches, its greatest breadth one and a half, and its thickness one inch. Of all these weights and measurements I think that of Wharton, which is the earliest, comes nearest the truth; only his measurement of length is too little. From a large number of obser- vations I find the average weight to be from four to five ounces, the length seven inches, the greatest breadth an inch and a half, and the thickness three quarters of an inch. It is smaller in women than men, but only in proportion to the difference of size. Scemmerring saysf that it is proportionately larger in the foetus and the new-born infant * Adenographia, p. 72. f " In nondum nato homine et brevi adeo post partum, majus pro corporis mole videtur quam in adulto." Corp. Hum. Fab.