400 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. may conjecture that its absorptive powers are chiefly intended to be exercised on the water of its contents; and on the sugar and lactic acid produced by that slow metamorphosis, which dense starchy substances would here continue to undergo. But in animals like the Horse, whose aliment passes quickly through the stomach and small intestine into an enormous colon, it is difficult to avoid believ- ing, that a more or less modified gastric juice accompanies the insoluble albuminous com- pounds of the food into this segment of the canal, and continues its solvent action during their long sojourn in its interior. It would otherwise be almost impossible to explain the nutrition of such animals. How far the large intestine can take up fat remains un- known. But it seems certain that its share in the absorption of this alimentary principle is very slight compared with that of the small intestine. The entire process of digestion might there- fore be described as consisting in the applica- tion to the food of a variety of agencies, such as mechanical division, solution, and metamor- phosis. In whatever manner these are ap- plied (either to the food as a whole, or to the several alimentary principles which form its constituents),and whether they operate in suc- cession or combination — in any case, they all work towards the same object: namely, that of preparing the food for absorption by the vessels and lacteals which occupy the walls of the digestive canal. With this act of ab- sorption, the function of digestion terminates. The chief agents of this process of division and solution, we have found to consist of certain liquid secretions; which are poured into the canal, either by the ducts of several glands, or by the vast compound mucous mem- brane that lines the various parts of its cavity. In short, the food received into the intestinal tube, mingles with a large quantity of a mixed fluid ; which itself represents the aggregate contributions of the salivary glands, the pancreas, the liver, the stomach, and the in- testine. But the more accurate researches which have recently been made on the nature and amount of these secretions, confirm a suspi- cion that has long been entertained with respect to some of them by physiologists. Comparing their quantity and quality with that of the fa;ces and the food, we can now confi- dently state, that but a very small fraction of their whole mass leaves the canal with the excrements ; by far the greater part of it being reabsorbed into the vessels of the ali- mentary canal. This proposition — so important to a cor- rect appreciation of the true office of the in- testinal canal, and of the relation of digestion to nutrition—has lately been placed in the clearest light by the admirable researches of Bidder and Schmidt upon animals. From their toilsome and accurate experiments, it would appear, that the total quantity of matter which thus leaves and returns to the cir- culation of an adult man, may be esti- mated at little less* than 20 pounds of liquid daily; of which about 3 per cent, consists of solids in solution. The importance of these "recrementitious " secretions to the system, is well shown by the results which follow the establishment of an artificial biliary fistula. Unless the ensuing loss of bile is compen- sated by the digestion of a much larger quan- tity of food, the animal so operated on soon dies of inanition. And it is probable that the ex- haustion produced by diarrhasa, or by the discharge of the intestinal contents through an abnormal opening in the bowel, may be partially due to a similar loss of this and other rich organic fluids, which ought to be reab- sorbed. Whether the secretions experience any change prior to absorption—whether any of them are really modified, and thus far digested by their colleagues — remains at present in doubt. It may be conjectured, however, that they are so altered. At any rate, it would seem that, by provoking these secretions +, the whole system of a starving animal may be for a time invigorated and restored. But the chain of these phenomena is at present too indistinctly seen, and their connection with various other organic processes much too obscure, to justify us in doing more than offer- ing this conjecture, as one of the most imme- diate explanations of certain well-known facts. But we know enough to state that, within the limits of ingestion and egestion, lie two corresponding acts of absorption and secre- tion. Each of these is, so to speak, the co- efficient of two elements. Absorption takes up food and secretions : secretion pours out, not only materials newly devoted to this purpose by the system, but others which have, in all probability, already subserved it many times before. The great mass of the intesti- nal secretions is thus continually revolving in a cycle:—forming a circulation the channel of which, placed in the intestinal canal, leaves and returns to the blood that flows in its walls ; and only allows a very small offshoot of its current to reach the outer world, bear- ing with it certain of its effete particles. The important chemical details of this cir- culation have yet to be won by sedulous and thoughtful " questionings of nature." But since, for the acquisition of such results, the liver offers what will probably be the easiest prize, it may be useful to point out how little even the vast progress of modern chemistry has hitherto been able to establish respecting its true physiological import. The portal blood, * From the greater proportionate waste of small animals, it is possible that this estimate (22 lbs. for an adult weighing 140 lbs.) is rather too large. f Some of the American Indians are alleged to eat clay with the object of allaying hunger. The drinking of water is well known to have a similar effect, and has been shown to increase the quantity of these secretions without causing a converse dimi- nution of their density. And the benefit which a starving person derives from the minutest portion of food is sometimes so sudden and remarkable, that we can scarcely avoid referring it to the same explanation. (Compare 1 Sam. xiv. 27. 29.)