PELVIS. 196 necessary that the line of gravity of the w hole body—viz. that from the lower centre—should Fig. 122. A. Diagram of the lines and centres of gravity of the trunk, a b; and of the whole body, c d. b. Outline of the lines of pressure in the pelvis and legs in the ovate rickety distortion, during the standing posture.—a b lines of direction of the. pressure of the heads of the femurs in the ace- tabula,—upwards and outwards. C. Outline of the pelvis and legs in the angular rostrated pelvis of the adult, resulting from molli- fies ossium. ab, a c, direction of pressure in the acetabula when the legs are not deformed, — upwards and inwards. D. A similar outline in the angular rickety pelvis of the child, when the legs are bent outwards,— di- rection of pressure inwards. E. Outline of abnormal antero-posterior curves of the spine, pelvis, and legs, a b, direction of the pressure in the acetabula backwards increased by the forward curve of the femora, c d, line of traction of the ;psoas muscles increasing the de- formity of the pelvis. fall anywhere between the extent of longitude of the feet (c d). If the trunk, however, bend forward, its centre and line of gravity is advanced beyond that of the whole body, and a share of the sup- port of the trunk, equivalent to the degree of distance of these two lines (l),d), falls upon the muscles and ligaments of the posterior part of thespine,and acorresponding strain upon their attachments to the sacrum and posterior part of the pelvis. This instance may be taken as an example of many others, in which the me- chanical position of the line of gravity in- fluences muscular action, the effects of both falling upon the lines of pressure and support in the pelvis. For the preservation of the sitting position, it is only necessary that the line of gravity of the trunk (a b) should fall within the extent of the basis of support, which is, from more or less of the whole extent of the hams in front to the ischial tuberosities behind. Hence the greater facility with which a person sitting down is pushed backward than forward. The line of pressure, on the other hand, passing down the centre of the bodies of the vertebras will, in the well-made subject, when standing on both legs or sitting, divide at the sacral promontory, into two equal parts, each of which traverses, first the'lateral sacral masses to the sacro-iliac joint; from this point, in the upright position, it passes along the cotylo-sacral rib to the heads of the femurs, describing in its course the C-like curve. In the sitting posture, it passes down the ischio-sacral buttress to the tuberosities. It will be borne in mind that each of these standing and sitting arches has its tie, which prevents it equally from starting outwards or pressing inwards at the extremities ; that for the cotylo-sacral arch being the united supe- rior pubic rami, and that for the ischio-sacral arch, the united ischio-pubic rami. The co- tylo-sacral arch and its pubic tie, united at the acetabula, and placed in the same plane, form in man, as we have seen, a lateral arch made up of the two halves, which supports on its culm the inward pressure of the head of the femur. The cotylo-sacral portion also sustains, in addition, its upward and backward pressure. The first effect of the softening of the os- seous supports in this line of pressure is to increase the natural curves which occur in it. Thus we see an increase in the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral curves, in the cotylo-sacral, fe- moral, and tibial (Jig. 122. e). The next effect is to produce lateral curves, which present generally their concavities towards the line of gravity, and are always associated with com- pensating curves, so as to keep the line of gravity within them, about which they pro- duce a wavy line, as is seen in the deformed spine. When this is not the case, the support of the weight falls more upon the tension of the muscles, and ligaments, and parts of bone on the convex side. In the pelvis, and, to some degree, in the bones of the legs, however, these results are modified by the lateral duplication and division of the lines of pressure; and in the pelvic skeleton this effect is still further increased by the cir- cular union of the lateral structures, and by the pressure or traction of the bones of the legs, conjointly or individually. The alteration of the position of the centre of gravity of the trunk, by deformity of the spine low down, will also have its effect upon the pelvis, by necessitating a constrained and unnatural position to prevent the body falling. Deformities confined to the upper part of the spine are seldom accompanied by deformed pelvis, owing, probably, to the little effect they have in altering the centre of gravity. In addition to these general changes from mechanical pressure, there is, in this softened state of the bones, the powerful effect of combined muscular action. The influence of continued posture on these changes will be found to be the origin of most of the differences of form we have seen in pelvic distortions. Let lis consider the effects of mechanical position and muscular action in the recumbent, — sitting, — and standing posi- tions respectively, on the softened pelvis In lying upon the back, the softened pelvis