PELVIS. 181 N 3 tion sometimes is present, and may mislead the obstetrician by giving an apparent breadth of haunch, while the contraction of the true pelvis may be considerable. He considers it to result from the entirely different and inde- pendent development of the false and true pelvis.* I have met with many specimens of the masculine form of pelvis in the dissecting- rooms, from among the laborious women of this metropolis. In Dr. Murphy's experience it is more common than had been hitherto supposed. The obstruction in this form of pelvis is met with chiefly in the deep funnel-shaped cavity, at the projecting ischial spines, or at the infe- rior outlet, under the narrow arch, and be- tween the tuberosities, and is rendered the more serious by the fcetal head in these cases being generally more ossified than usual. The great inward projection of the sciatic spines sometimes affords an obstacle to the passage of the head. The average normal distance between them will be found, on refer- ence to the tables, to be 4 inches.' During the turning of the head in the most frequent positions, the inter-temporal and inter-zygo- matic diameters of the foetal head, the former of which is placed by Dr. Murphy at 3 inches, and the latter at 3^ to 4 inches, are placed obliquely between them. In one or two in- stances I have found the sciatic spines as near to each other as 3j inches, and in one it was not co-existent with any extraordinary massy or masculine proportions, but simply with small transverse diameters. In the fronto- cotyloid and fronto-pubic positions, or with a large fcetal head, the approximation of the sciatic spines becomes a serious impediment to labour. In this pelvis the sacro-coccygeal articulation is said by Dr. Murphy to be ge- nerally less moveable, and the sacro-iliac joints unyielding, and that a bony ridge is often found on the posterior surface of the narrow pubic symphysis. The cause of this form of pelvis seems to be, an advanced condition of ossification in a pelvis which would otherwise have been "infantile" brought about by the development of unusual muscularity, corresponding to the laborious employment of the individual. This action of the pelvic muscles will have also the effect of impressing irregularities upon the bones into which they are implanted, or over which they act. The tension of the posterior spinal and abdominal muscles against those of the leg would tend to elongate the pelvis, while the powerful great glutei, much used in supporting or raising heavy weights, will press inwards the ischial tuberosities, and narrow the sub- pubic arch. Irregularities of the pclvi-vcrtebral angle.— Too great obliquity of the pelvis has been said to cause "ante-version" by throwing the weight of the uterus on the anterior abdomi- nal walls; and too little obliquity to have a tendency to produce prolapsus uteri. Naegele (Das weibliche Becken), however, considers * Moil. Gazette, vol. xxxii. pp. 555. and 589. many of these supposed consequences are theoretical only; but he observed, both in first, and after many labours, that an approximation of the pelvic plane to the perpendicular caused the foetal head to be placed so much forward, and the os uteri so high, as to be felt with difficulty; and, on the other hand, in very considerable inclination to the horizon the fcetal head was deep, and not easy to be felt through the uterine neck. In neither condi- tion was there any important deviation from the mechanism of natural parturition. The alteration of the planes of the pelvic outlets becomes, however, a valuable means of indication of the more important class of pel- vic distortions, in which such an alteration is generally effected. In particular, when the tip of the coccyx and pubic symphysis are un- usually placed, especial attention to the form and measurements of the pelvis is called for; though, as before seen, an alteration of the pelvic planes alone does not necessarily imply a distorted pelvis. Dr. Rigby mentions, that the pelvic inclina- tion is generally less in a tall slender person than in a short thick-set woman ; and that, in the former case, the hollow of the sacrum is generally small, and in the latter deep. 2. Distortions of the pelvis are best arranged into the following practical divisions,'according as they affect the brim ;—the cavity ;-—or the outlet only or principally ;—or the whole struc- ture of the pelvis at the same time.* Distortions affecting the brim only or princi- pally.— By far the greater majority of these cases consist in an unusually forward projection of the sacral promontory. This causes the opening to assume a heart-shape, diminishes the conjugate diameter, sometimes contracting also the oblique, and increasing the transverse in some degree. At the same time, the pro- montory of the sacrum is sunk down below its normal altitude, lessening the angle of the superior plane, and making its axis assume a more vertical direction. Most generally the sacral projection deviates from the medium line, and forms the lower extremity of an abnormal curve in the lumbar vertebra, render- ing the brim of the pelvis generally unsym- metrical in shape. This deviation takes place most frequently, according to my own observation, to the left side, and appears to be an exaggeration of a very common tendency (which, being seen in the most robust subjects, can scarcely be called abnormal) of the natural curve of the lumbar vertebra towards the left side. This lateral curve is evidently a compensatory one to the very usual and well-known deviation of the * Osiander enumerates six forms of pelvic de- formity, classified without regard to their origin or bearing upon parturition ; viz. 1. The elliptical, with diminished antero-posterior diameters, and without projection of the sacral promontory ; 2. The reniform, with a sacral projection ; 3. The Iwurqlass or 8 shaped, from a curve backward at the sj'm- physis pubis; 4. The oblong; 5. The oblique; and G. the angular or triangular form. The method of ar- rangement I have adopted in the text, seems however, the best adapted for useful applications.