137 PELVIS. According to Dupuytren, the female pelvis differs very little from that of the male till puberty, at which period it has a general triangular form in both sexes, but, after that period, it becomes rapidly developed, and soon assumes its distinctive sexual cha- racter. The transverse diameters begin to exceed the conjugate, and, in the female, attain a great preponderance, constituting one of the great characteristics of the fully formed human pelvis, as distinguished from that of the lower animals. In Autenrieth's method of calculating the pelvic dimensions, the dorsal, or posterior part, bears a proportion to the anterior or abdominal part, as 10 to from 11 to 1-i, in the infant of two years ; while, in the adult pelvis, it was as 10 to from 1G to 22. In advanced adult age, the pelvic inclination is said by Cruveilhier to be increased in con- sequence of the forward curvature, or droop- ing of the spinal- column, which tends to arrive at the horizontal position, as in quadru- peds. To keep the centre of gravity between the lower extremities, the femurs, in old persons, are more flexed upon the pelvis, so as to be more directed towards the line of the superior pelvic plane. 1 have found, however, that in old subjects, although the annle of the pelvic plane with that of the whole spinal column is increased, yet the angle with the lumbar vertebra; only, is not so much changed, and that, apparently, the increased muscular traction on the sacrum and posterior part of the ilia by the muscles of the back act- ing upwards, and of those of the front of the thigh acting downwards, upon the anterior part of the pelvic lever, in order to pre- serve the erect position, produce this in- creased obliquity of the pelvis, which is ge- nerally accompanied by a corresponding de- crease of the sacro-vertebral angle. This will be more fully comprehended when consider- ing the mechanism of the pelvis. Muscular Attachments of the Pel- vis.— To afford a fixed point for the attach- ment of the numerous and powerful muscles acting on the trunk and extremities is one of the important offices of the pelvis. These may be classed as posterior spinal and abdo- minal groups acting on the trunk and spinal column ; extensor, flexor, adductor, abductor, and rotator groups acting on the lower extre- mity ; and perineal groups forming the move- able floor of Hie pelvis and acting on the genital and excretory organs. 1. lilusc/es acting on the trunk and spine.— The posterior spinal group.—The longissimus dorsi and multijidus spina, to the upper part of the posterior surface of the sacrum ; the interspinales, to the superior border of the sacral crest; and, according to some, the ex- tensor cocci/gis, to the contiguous posterior surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx ; the sacro- lumbalis, to the middle part of the posterior third of the iliac crest, and to the contiguous sacral surface ; ami the la'issimus dorsi, through the lumbar fascia to the" external lip of the posterior half of the iliac crest and to the sacral crest. This muscle acts on the arm. The abdominal group.—The ob/itjuus cxter- nus and interims, and transvcrsalis abdo- minis, to the external lip, middle ridge, and internal lips respectively of the iliac crest, and also by their aponeurotic tendons to the angle, crest, spine, anil pectineal line of the pubis (the external oblique tendon, under the name of Poupart's ligament, stretching across, from the anterior superior iliac spine to the spine of the pubis, and, under the name of Gim- bernat's ligament, passing backwards to the linea-ilio pectinea; and the internal oblique and transversalis tendons enclosing the rectus abdominis muscle, and uniting to form the conjoined tendon) ; the quadratics lumborum, to the posterior fourth of the inner lip of the iliac crest ; the rectus and pyramidalis abdo- minis, to the crest of the pubis; and the psoas parvus, when present, to the pectineal eminence. 2. Muscles acting on the leg. — The flexor group.—The rectus fenwris, to the anterior in- ferior iliac spine and outer part of the coty- loid rim; the iliacus, to the whole anterior concave surface of the iliac wing—the psoas magnus is not attached to the pelvis, but acts upon it by passing over it along the pelvic brim ; and the sartorius, to the anterior supe- rior iliac spine and notch below it. The extensor group. — The biceps flexor cruris, semiiendiuosus, and semimembranosus, to the depending middle and posterior parts of the ischial tuberosity ; and the gluteus maximus, to the quadrilateral gluteal impres- sion on the dorsum of the ilium, to the pos- terior surfaces of the two lower pieces of the sacrum, and of the two or three upper pieces of the coccyx, to the oblique sacro-iliac and great sacro-sciatic ligaments, and to the lum- bar fascia. The adductor group.—The adductor magnus, to the anterior part of the ischial tuberosity, and to the united ischiO-pubic rami; the ad- ductor lovgus, to the anterior surface of the angle of the pubis; the adductor brcvis below the foregoing, to the same surface; the pec- tineus, to the spine, pectineal line, and hori- zontal ramus of the pubis ; and the gracilis, to the rough internal border of the ischio- pubic rami and symphysis pubis. The abductor grouj).— The gluteus medius, to the dorsum of the ilium, between the crest and superior curved line ; the gluteus minimus, to the same surface between the curved lines; and the tensor vagina fenwris, to the outer surface of the anterior superior iliac spine. The rotator group.—The piriformis, to the anterior surface of the sacrum between the four upper sacral holes, and passing out through the great sciatic notch ; the obturator cxternus, to the inner half of the external cir- cumference of the obturator foramen, and to the external surface of the membrane closing it; the obturator internus, to the internal surface of the same ligament, and to the borders of the foramen, and also to the surface of bone oppo- site the cotyloid cavity (this muscle passes out through the small sciatic notch, over which