173 PELVIS. usually contributed to by the pubes andischia. In Fishes, a supporting arch from the spinal column to the posterior limbs * is not wanted, but rather a free and unimpeded motion for the caudal extremity, used in propelling the body. In the Angler there are two pelvic bones, each consisting of a vertical portion, which, in this instance, seems to represent the ilium, and a horizontal one, w hich meets in a symphysis with the one on the opposite side, and is the homologue of the pubis, the pectoral rays being attached to the angle of union of the two portions. In the Kays and Sharks, where the pelvic extremities are better de- veloped than in other fishes, the pelvic bones consist of one piece, placed transversely, resembling that which supports the pectoral fins, and suspended loosely, like it, by a ligament to the spine. In the Sharks and Chimera are found, articulated to it, by means of an intermediate cartilage, two club-shaped bones, called claspers, which are used to em- brace the female in the generative act. In the Torpedo, and also in the Cyclobates oligo- dactylus, an extinct Ray, the pubic bone sends forward two processes, somewhat resembling marsupial bones. In the Sturgeon, the pelvic bones are almost entirely separated from each other, and consist of small triangular pieces, with their apices directed forwards, and sup- porting the cartilaginous fin rays. In the Cod-fish there are two sub-triangular bifur- cated bones, connected to each other by liga- ment, and suspended from the coracoids, the rays of the ventral fins springing directly from them. In the Trout, the pelvic bones are also two in number, flat and of an elongated tri- angular shape, with the base directed pos- teriorly, and supporting the ventral fins (see Jig. 111. c). In the Haddock, there is a single bone, presenting a central oval opening with the shorter diameter transverse. In the Cyprinus, Scomber, and Zeus, they present backward spinous projections. In the Rhombus and Loricaria there is seen an ankylosis of the anterior caudal vertebras, forming a sort of sacrum, and presenting the first indication of the formation of this bone in the animal kingdom. Subjoined is a table, showing the compara- tive pelvic angles in Man and the principal genera of Mammalia, Birds, and Reptiles. The measurements were principally taken, with great care to insure correctness, from the specimens in the Hunterian Museum, through the kindness of Professor Owen. The rela- tive size or total disappearance of the verte- bro-iliac, sacro-vertebral, and the ilio-pubio and ilio-ischial angles in the different tribes, will be here seen at one view. It may be observed that the two former may vary some- what through inaccuracies in articulating the skeleton, or with the variations of the ver- tebral curve, and that the results here given are to be taken in this particular, as approxi- mative only. Rut the ilio-pubic and ischial angles cannot, from the ossific union of the bones, be subject to such accidental variations. The accompanying diagram is intended to show the absolute lines of direction or axes of the pelvic bones and spine seen in profile, with the angles above referred to, in the prin- cipal pelvic types. Ma 7i 3 <L Lines of direction and profile angles of the pelvic hones. 1. Human type; fac, vertebro-iliac angle; fag, sacro-vertebral angle; aed, ilio-ischial angle; acb, ilio-pubic line, forming an angle in all other animals. 2. Orang type. 3. Monkey type, no ilio-ischial angle. 4. Edentata type, ilio-pubic angle reversed. 5. Carnivora type, ilio-ischial angle reversed, (i. Pachyderm type. 7. Ruminant type. 8. Rodent type, no ilio-ischial angle. 9. Kangaroo type. 10. Bird type, no ilio-ischial angle. 11. Raptores type, ilio- ischial angle reversed. 12. Chelonian type. 13. Saurian type, ilio-pubic angle reversed, and remarkably acute ilio-ischial angle.