132 PELVIS. line those of the superior and inferior outlets of the pelvis, the general inclination of the pelvis to the vertebral column is obtained. The line so drawn will generally be found to Variations in the Diameters of healthy Female Pelves. Dr. Murphy (in 18 Cases). Taken by the writer in the King's College dissecting rooms (in 18 Case*). Extremes. Most fre- quent. Extremes. Most fre- quent. / ii ndil r\l/jn/> ftf nr/1 ill n » t rwll —. l/lLllflltl jjluttt Uf 1)1 Utf/U/t lUf (f —~ inches. inches. inches. inches. Antero-posterior - *3A_ or 3jJ to 51 44 to 41 To left pectineal cminence- *3 or 3\ to 4| 34, to 3J To right pectineal eminence *2\ or 31 to 54. 3? Bran —Antero-posterior *3| or 31 to 5J 4 3* to Transverse - f3| or 41 to 5| 5 to . n 5 f Left Oblique |Right: I *4J or 4ij to 5| *4| or 4\ to 54, 5 and 5J J 4\ to 5 and 5\ Between promontory and lower edge of symphysis pubis H to 51 4\ and 5 Cavity—Antero-posterior *44jor41 to 5| 5 41 to 4;j and 54, Transverse *3^ or 4{ to 5'3 5 Between ischiadic spines 3} to 4\ " 41 ' Outlet—Antero-posterior tN to §41 4 to 4J 34. to 4 Transverse §3J toj5 43 to 43 3\ to 4' Oblique (6 cases only) 3^ to H 4 Angle of pubic arch 45° to 100° 70° to 90° * Like male pelvis, diameters small. t Smallest pelvis, transverse diameter of cavity 4J, of outlet 4£. j Belong to the same pelves respectively (compensating diameters). pass also through the bodies of the first dorsal and second lumbar vertebras across their centres. The curved line of the vertebrae, in most well-formed subjects, cuts the straight line at these two points, in passing from the cervical to the dorsal, and from the latter to the lumbar curve. The plane of the pelvic brim has been termed by Naegele and the brothers G. and E. Weber the superior plane of the pelvis, and that of the inferior outlet the inferior plane. These observers measured the angle formed by these planes with the ground-level in the standing position, i. e. with the horizon, or with a plane drawn horizontally, at right angles, to the above-mentioned transverse vertical plane, which, in the erect posture, was found to be perpendicular to the base of .support. The angle which the superior plane of the pelvis forms with the transverse vertical plane or with the horizon is termed by them the angle of inclination of the pelvis, or the peri- vertebral angle (.fig. 84. page 13+.), (ac,cc). It is remarkable that, in man only, are the boundaries of the superior outlet in one plane. i. e. in man only is the direction of the superior pubic ramus in the same plane with that of the coti/lo-sacral rib of the ilium. In all other ani- mals, as far as my own observations go, the pubis is bent backward or forward, so as to make an angle with the ilium, and the pelvi* vertebral angle is thus resolved into two angles, a vertebro-iliae and an ilio-ptiinc. The angle of the superior plane was found by the Webers on the dead body, by fixing the connected spinal column and pelvis of a recent well-made subject, in plaster of Paris, to preserve the natural position, then making through the whole a direct vertical section, and afterwards measuring off the angles. On making a transverse vertical section through the centres of the heads of the femurs and cotyloid cavities, they also found that, when the body is in the erect position and the pelvis at the proper angle, the coty- loid notch and depression, and the fibres of the ligamentum teres, have an almost directly vertical direction, and fall exactly in the trans- verse vertical plane of the vertebrae (see fig. 87. page 140., in which the line a a' lies in the plane of the transverse vertical section). It will be further seen, by inspecting the figure, that this plane, being continued downwards, crosses the obturator foramina, and falls very nearly in the line of suture of the ischio-pubic rami. And this will be found to be the case, w ith a plumb line dropped from the sacral pro- montory, which is cut by the above plane in the erect position of the pelvis. A detached pelvis may be placed in the erect living po- sition, consequently, by keeping the poste- rior part of the notch the most depending point of the cotyloid brim, and its inclinations will then accord with those taken in connec- tion with the spine. In the consideration of these pelvic angles it must be borne in mind that the direction of the curve of the three last lumbar vertebrae, below the point where the great dorsal con- cavity terminates, is such that, if prolonged upwards, the axial line would pass out at the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum. This makes the pelvi-lumbar angle much less in man than the whole peri- vertebral ; a circumstance to be borne in mind in comparing them w ith those of animals. In fact, the transvesical section just mentioned passes through the body of the third lumbar vertebra considerably posterior to its centre in most eases (sec a, b,fig. 84. page 134.).