REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 231 Q 4 is no less important, as forming another con- necting link between the Lichens and Fungi. The special characteristic of these organs is to be found in their containing, instead of thecae or paraphyses, stylospores, supported on stipitiform pedicles or basidia. In their Fig. 154. mp3 3m Si© Pycnklis of the same, about 150 diam. The stylospores are escaping from the upper ori- fice of the organ. (The figures from 143 to 154 in- clusive, are after Tuiasne.) general form they resemble the spermogoniae, but their walls are thicker and they are larger. Like them they are provided with a vertical ostiole. The stylospores are oblong, cylin- drical bodies, more than twice the length of the spermatia (from to -Ify^ of an inch), obtuse at both ends, very slightly curved, colourless, and containing only granular pro- toplasma. They are supported on pedicles, which have the same arrangements as in the spermogoniae. They are simple, linear tubular filaments, which taper towards their extre- mities. Just as the spermogoniae correspond to the spermatium-bearing organs of the Fungi, the pyenides correspond to those receptacles, containing stylospores, which we have had occasion to describe both in the Discomycetes and Pyrenomycetes. 50. Summitry.—The reproductive organs of the Fungi and Lichens are of five kinds :— 1. Sporules, which are formed by the con- striction and subsequent separation of the extremity of a simple cylindrical filament; 2. Spermatia with their supporting pedicles ; 3, Stylospores, with their styles ; 4. Thecae or asci; 5. Basidia, with their basidiospores. Of these the last mentioned are to be found only, as we know at present, in Fungi which are provided witli no other reproductive organ. The first four, on the other hand, all of them occur in plants belonging to one family of Fungi—viz. the Disco- and Py reno-mycetes : they also all occur, with the exception of the first, among the Lichens. They may be arranged, as regards the complexity of their form and structure, in the order in which they are placed above, the simple acrogenous sporule standing first. A similar arrangement may also be adopted in the description of the corresponding varieties in the reproductive phenomena which manifest themselves in con- nection with each variety of spore-like body. As regards the first of these, nothing further need be said, as the formation of the sporule by division, as described above, constitutes the whole reproductive process. It is exem- plified in the stroma of a Sphceria, when in a condition corresponding to that which cha- racterises a Melanconium. The spermatiuni is found only in a special receptacle, the general form and structure of which remain always the same, as in the Cytispora-like capsule of the Disco- and Py reno-mycetes and the spermogonias of the Lichens. The stylospores are also formed in special organs (pyenides, and the corresponding organs among the Fungi), which differ from the last only as regards the structure of the parts upon which the spore is immediately sup- ported. Lastly, the receptacles which bear thecae are of larger size, more complicated in their structure, and later in making their appearance than any of the rest, as in the instance of the disc of Peziza, the closed re- ceptacle of Sphceria, and the apothecium of the Lichens. 51. The Pyreno- and Disco-mycetes are, as we have seen, so closely allied to the Lichens as regards their reproductive organs, that the characters of the two families seem in this respect to merge into each other. The dis- tinction is to be sought in the vegetative system. The thallus of the Lichen differs from the thallus-like stroma of the Fungus in its possessing two additional elements, the cortical layer and the gonidia. We observe their first appearance in the most simple form in Verrucaria. 52. There is as yet no sufficient ground for definitively concluding that the reproductive functions of the asci and spermatia are com- plementary to each other ; or, in other words, that these organs are sexual. There is, how- ever, good reason for considering it probable; first, because, when spermatia and asci are produced on the same mycelium, the former always precede the latter in their develop- ment by a considerable period, just as among the higher Cryptogamia, the antheridia precede the archegonia ; and, secondly, because the organs on which the spermatia are supported, and the asci, stand in an anatomical relation to each other, and to the receptacle v\ithin or upon which they are formed, which closely resembles those of the antheridia and epispores of the Fuci, or of the antheridia and tetraspores of the Floridea;. We are well aware that these analogies do not afford the slightest proof of an actual correspondence between the organs in question. All more direct evidence, however, is absent; no observations have been made to show that the spermatia or stylospores exercise any influence on the thecae or their contents, and on these important points, therefore, we must look to further ob-