499 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. K K 2 of a coarsely granular horny substance exca- vated by polygonal cavities of about y^Lj inch in diameter, frequently if not invariably containing air, which adds to the dark hue (by transmitted light) arising from the granular opacity of the horny matter. At its edges, this tissue passes into the cortical sub- stance, which, in a transverse section {fig- 317. d) appears as a clear, homogeneous or slightly granular mass, dotted over by minute aper- tures, about twhto m- ™ diameter, and -^V7S in. apart. In a longitudinal section, on the other hand (fig. 317. c, b), the general mass appears obscurely striated in a longitudinal direction ; and in the place of the circular apertures, we see elongated fissures, some- what narrowed at each extremity, whose transverse sections constituted these aper- tures. The pointed ends of the fissures were continued by a line which could fre- quently be traced into some other fissure above or below, so that I conceive the fis- sures are in reality more or less complete canals. The quill of the feather is entirely com- posed of cortical substance ; the barbs have the same structure as the shaft; the barbides present both cortical and medullary sub- stances in a rudimentary condition. Each barbule in fact (fig. 317. E,e) exhibits along its axis a series of oval cavities, the remains of cells like those of the medulla, while its lateral portions are composed of striated horny matter like that of the cortex, and are produced into the curved and hooked lateral processes (jf). The polygonal cells of the medullary sub- stance are produced from the indifferent tissue of the pulp in exactly the same manner as those of an ordinary horny, cel- lular ecderon from that of the rete mucosum : that is to say, the periplast increases, and becomes marked out into polygonal areas ; it then acquires a horny consistence, and a stronger and stronger definition along the lines of demarcation, until polygonal "cells" (as in fig. 317. b, a) are formed. The walls of the latter now thicken and become granular; the endoplasts disappear, and at length no- thing is left but the honey-combed perfect me- dullary substance. The mode of formation of the cortical substance is the inverse of this. On examining the line of junction {fig. 317. b) of the pulp (r) with recently formed cor- tical substance (b), it is observable that the endoplasts do not become surrounded by cell cavities, but that the periplast acquires a granular, longitudinally fibrous, appearance; while the endoplasts, though they are oc- casionally visible in the striated mass, soon completely disappear.* The elongated ca- vities or tubuli do not at first exist in the cortex, but are the result of a secondary va- cuolation, and so far as I have been able to observe, have no relation with the pre-existing endoplasts. In fact, these canals, like those in the hair-shaft, the clefts in the fenes- * Compare Schwann, TTntersucliungen, &o. trated rootsheath, and the canaliculi of bone, must be regarded as the results of a second- ary vacuolation. The feather sac resembles that of the hair in all essential points of struc- ture, except that the relations of the layers of the inner rootsheath are different. As in the hair, two layers may be distinguished in the inner rootsheath, an outer, strong, dark, horny membrane corresponding with the fe- nestrated membrane, and an inner delicate flexible layer, corresponding with the inner horny rootsheath. The former has a structure intermediate between that of the two layers of the inner rootsheath in the hair, consisting of irregular polygonal plates, which retain the remains of their endoplasts (fig. 317. F),as in the inner layer of the horny rootsheath, and do not become separated by fissures; while they resemble the plates of the outer horny rootsheath in their thickness, complete cor- nification and striated appearance. The inner layer of the horny rootsheath is a delicate, often granular membrane, which closely invests the outer surface of the feather, and from presenting a cast of its elevations and; depressions, has been called the outer "striated_membrane" of the feather sac (supra, § 2.) It is a sheet of horny matter, in which traces of closely-set endoplasts are discover- able. The inner (fig. 317. e, d) " striated membrane " is a membrane having a similar structure, possessing similar relations to the inner surface of the feather, and which is con- tinuous with the so-called "pith" in the quill of a fully formed feather. The mode of de- velopment of these rootsheaths is identical with that of those in the hair, and therefore requires no further elucidation here. Tcgumcntary glands. — The other con- versionary productions of the ecderon which we have to consider, are the glandular ap- pendages, which are always diverticula of the cellular ecderon inwards.* Under this head I include only those small glandular organs which, so far as we know, have no reference to any other functions than that of cutaneous transpiration or fatty secretion, referring to the articles on special divisions of the animal kingdom for an account of those organs, such as the " water vessels " of Echinoderms and Trematoda, the nidamental glands of Mollusks, the genital glands of Vertebrata and Insecta, which might strictly be regarded as productions of the integument. Tegumentary glands in this limited sense are somewhat rare among the Invertebrata. They have, however, been observed in the Annelids, where they consist of delicate tubes, terminating internally by a blind extremity containing a single nucleated cell. Such glands exist on the ventral surface of the head and foot discs in Piscicola, and are scattered all over the body in Clepsine and Nephelis. Similar glands are found opening upon the ventral surface of Argulus foliaceus. * Unless, indeed, these simple " mucous cells," described by Clark and Leydig in Fishes, and which are merely modified cells of the cellular ecderon, should be regarded as glands.