REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 2i3 spore membrane, and consequently formed before it, line the inner surface of the parent Fig. 173. Development of parent cells of the spores of the same- a, one of the nucleated cells which constitute the central mass of the young sporangium; b, the central nucleus has disappeared, and is replaced by four others, one of which is out of focus; c, the cell is divided by six septa into four somewhat tetrahedral compartments. This ob- ject has by mistake been represented relatively smaller than the rest; d, the four compartments (special parent cells of the spores), are ahout to separate from each other: e, mature special parent cell. In its interior we observe the nu- cleated spore, and between it and the membrane of the parent-cell, the coils of the two elastic fibres; f, the free spore; the spiral fibres, which remain for a short time after its escape from the parent-cell, attached by their middle points to its membrane, have disappeared. cell, from which the gelatinous thickening has now disappeared. Soon after, springing asunder from each other, they tear the membrane of the parent cell, retaining, how- ever, their central attachment to the surface of the spore. 90. LycopodiaceeB.*—The large spore (ma- crospore) of Selaginella, consists, when ripe, of an internal spherical vesicle of delicate structure (endospore), which is enclosed in a resistant epispore. The endospore contains a fluid, in which float mucous and oleaginous granules only, its nucleus having disappeared. On its surface are observed three linear projections, all of which converge towards one point, the summit of the spore. The epispore, a structure of later formation, is composed of two layers, the internal of which is distinguished from the other by its remarkable transparency. The external sur- face is scattered over with acuminated projec- tions, which are connected with each other by a network of minute ridges. 91. The development of the prothalliuin commences (usually several months after the macrospore has been sown) by the deposi- tion of several cells on the internal surface of the proper spore membrane, at a point subjacent to that towards which the three ex- ternal ridges converge. Whether these cells * Hofmeister, /. c, pp. 118—124. are originally developed in situ, from a single parent, or existed before, lying free in the cavity of the spore, is uncertain. Hofmeister inclines to the latter opinion. At first the prothallium is a cellular expansion of circular form,which enlarges by growth at its periphery, and lines the upper part of the proper mem- brane of the spore. At its centre it is of considerable thickness, and is composed of several layers of cells. Towards its margin it becomes gradually thinner and thinner, its two surfaces at last converging at a very acute angle, so as to become continuous with those of the spore membrane. 92. Archegonia.—The first-formed arche- gonium is always found to occupy the centre of the upper surface of the prothallium; its successors surrounding it at various distances. A superficial cell, distinguished from its neighbours by the quantity of granules which it contains, is divided into two by a trans- verse septum. From the upper of the resulting compartments is developed a papilliform projection, which is composed, as in the Equi- setaceae, of two double pairs of cylindrical cells, surrounding an axial intercellular canal. In Section o f unimpregnated archeganium of Selaginella denticulata, containing the granular germ-cell, 400 dium. the lower is contained a vesicular nucleus, the germ-cell of the fully formed archegonium. Its cavity becomes continuous with the axial canal by the solution of its membrane." Archegonium of the same immediately after impregna- tion, 600 diam. The germ-cell has enlarged considerably, and di- vided by a transverse septum. 93. The embryo. — About the time that the formation of archegonia is completed on the upper surface of the prothallium, there is developed, on its inferior aspect, a tissue composed of cells much larger than any of those previously existing. This tissue pro- jects, in the form of a cushion, into the cavity of the spore. In general one only of the many archegonia receives the necessary fructifying influence. In this the germ-cell divides re- peatedly by transverse septa, as the result it 2