524 RUMINANTIA. or ten such bundles may be remarked in different species. In the first place we have a broad band extending from the fore-part of the neck, and spreading toward the lips and forehead ; this constitutes the muscidus cu- taneous faciei. Again, it is very strongly marked at the neck, especially in the Sheep ; here it is denominated the m. cutan. colli. In other domestic animals of the non-ruminant kind, such as the Dog, Cat, and Pig, this se- cond division of the fleshy envelope is still more striking. Over the shoulder of the Ox there is a third layer of thickened fasiculi cutan. humeri) ; and lastly, we find a highly developed mass, taking its origin from the fascia lata of the thigh immediately above the patella, and proceeding forward, the fibres radiate toward the scapula in front and the abdomen below ; this is the m. cutan. maximus scu abdominis. The insertion of the panniculus is directly into the skin, which everywhere covers it, and " on this texture it can alone act, seeing it is completely isolated from the deeper seated parts, by an universal layer of fascia, which thus enables it to slide more freely upon them. When in action, the fibres throw the skin into folds that form right angles to their general course ; the chief points from which they act being the angle of the jaw, the scapula, the patella, and the pubis."* The principal function appears to be that of serving as an instrument of de- fence. By its action animals have the power of jerking and shaking the skin, thus removing irritating matters, — also of erecting bristles and spines as instanced by the defensive armature of the Hedgehog, — and in aiding the process of lactation, as obtains in the Marsupiatae. Were it not for the constant and involuntary action of the muscle, the torture (to which many animals, particularly cattle, are subjected, from the stings and bites of flies and other insects), would become intolerable, and consequently we find in those creatures which are most exposed to their injurious attacks a preponderating de- velopment of this structure. In the same category as the above cutaneous muscles may be associated themusculus prepu- tia/is seu umbilicus, the superficial orbicularis palpebrarum, and certain of the complicated set of organs which act upon the concha and scu- tum of the external ear. Of the latter, sixteen pairs have been described as common to the Ox, and nearly as many have been indicated in the Sheep. In both genera they surround the ear on all sides, and offer similar characters in respect of relative size and position. By their reciprocal action the auricular appendage is turned in every direction, as well as rotated upon its own axis ; it is likewise expanded and contracted by such of them as proceed from one part of the concha to another. Theorbicularmuscle of the eyelid {5,fig. 349.) is thick and fleshy,and its action is aided above and below by thin strata of fibres coming from the panniculus; these are independent of the ordinary elevators and depressors of the lid. Muscles of the head and trunk. — Referring to the accompanying figures for a general outline of the superficial and deep muscular layers included in the above division, we propose to treat in detail of such muscles as acquire a particular interest in respect of their position or importance in a physiological point of view. In the clavicle-bearing mammals the tra- pezius consists of two parts, — an anterior or clavicular portion, and a posterior or scapular division ; but in ruminants and other quad- rupeds which are unprovided with these bones, the posterior section is alone represented by the trapezius properly so called(10,1 ], Jig.3±9). On this account it is comparatively small and restricted in its superior attachments, the fore-part being narrow and connected to the elastic ligament of the neck and the dorsal portion, which is somewhat shorter and thicker, becoming attached to the spinous Fig. 3i9. View of the superficial muscles of the trunk in the Ox. (From Gnrlt.) 1, orbicularis oris; 2, levator labii superioris; 3, zygomaticus; 4, depressor palp, inferioris; 4*, risorius santorini; 5, orbic. palpebrarum ; 5 *, masseter; 6, corrugator superciliorum ; 7, depressor auriculas; 8, 8, 8, deltoides; 9, sterno-maxillaris; 10, 11, trapezius; 12, latissimus dorsi; 13, pectoralis major; 14, obliquus externus ; 15, gluteus maximus; 16, tensor fasciae latse; 15", 18, biceps femoris. * Mercer, On the Structure and Uses of the Panniculus carnosus, Med. Gazette, 1840—41, p. 346.