STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 351 sence occurs in the agminate follicles, or " Peyer's patches." Here they are absent over the several follicles which together form each patch ; and become short, (a, fig. 212, p. 358.) blunt, irregular, or even confluent, where they occupy their interstices. We have seen that each of the valvulae conniventes is a doubled fold of membrane, separated by a layer of areolar tissue. While the minute intestinal tube may almost be re- garded as a mere membranous lamina, which is involuted so as to surround a cylindrical cavity, and is packed in a sparing fibrous invest- ment. But the villus constitutes, as it were, a solid process of the mucous membrane. In accordance with this structure, it consists of an epithelium, a basement membrane, a stroma or basis of fibrous tissue, unstriped muscle, and numerous blood-vessels. And in ad- dition to these constituents, which may be found under various modifications throughout the whole intestinal mucous membrane, the interior of each villus encloses one or more branches of the lacteal vessels which con- tain the chyle. The epithelium of the villi {a, fig. 259. and a, figs. 264,265,266.) consists of a single layer of cylindrical cells, which, — as regards size, shape, and general appearance, — closely resemble those seen on the ridges between the tubes of the stomach. They are, how- ever, even more delicate in their structure, as well as more conical in their shape. Fig. And their contents are, even during fasting, somewhat darker and more granular. The nucleus, which occupies the same situation in both these varieties of cylindrical epi- thelium, contains a single bright spot, or nucleolus : in rare instances, this appears to be double. The basement-membrane (at b, fig. 260.) does not require any special mention. As in the gastric ridges, it is very closely at- tached to the subjacent structures, espe- cially to the vessels. But its continuity with the similar structure forming the in- testinal tubes sufficiently indicates that it is really a distinct membrane. And it is often demonstrated to be such by the action of water ; which, after transuding it from the outer surface, raises the membrane, in the shape of a delicate transparent bulla, from the general mass of the villus beneath. The blood vessels of the villi are extremely numerous. Small arteries, (a a, fig. 260.) of about xoW1'1 of an inch in diameter, pass between the in- testinal tubes. The base of each villus re- ceives one, two, or more of these, according to its size. They now pass upwards in the substance of the process, at some dis tance from its surface; and rapidly diminish by giving off" numerous capillaries, into which their own trunks entirely merge at about the middle of the height of the villus. The ultimate capillaries themselves (c c, 260. Vessels of two villi, injected. Magnified 100 diameters, a a, arteries entering the basis of each villus near its centre; vv, veins seen in the same situation ; c, capillaries lying immediately beneath the limitary membrane; d, tortuous capillaries occupying the free extremity of one villus; b, limitary or basement membrane of the villus, denuded of its epithelium fig. 260.) are, on an average, about £rd of the above diameter. They constitute a net-work, which lies directly under the basement mem- brane; and covers the whole villus so thickly, as to give it a vivid red colour in injected specimens. The shape and complexity of this network is liable to great variety ;' but is usually such, that the length of its meshes is five or six times their width. The capillaries are distinguished by their being apt to ex- hibit a wavy and tortuous course (d, fig. 260.) which often ^causes their real length greatly to exceed that of the villus itself. This character is especially marked at the