OVUM. ?) F i been discharged from the capsule in a few hours, we may find some difficulty in isolating the vesicle of Purkinje from the granular disc ; for, by this time, the vesicle has become flaccid, weak, and flattened down, and has begun to be softened and dissolved, prepara- tory to its complete disappearance, which generally occurs about the time when the stigma of the capsule opens to allow of the escape of the yolk into the infundibulum which embraces it. But, in all the other yolks down to those of T\y of an inch in dia- meter, it is quite easy to break up the granular disc with needle points, and to preserve the vesicle uninjured. We may then free it entirely from adhering granules, and cause it to roll along in the fluid in which it is immersed, or on a plate of glass; and we may perceive that it is a simple membranous vesicle filled with fluid, and without any very obvious granules or nuclei. In the perfectly fresh state,the contents of the vesicleare almostlimpid, exhibiting only a slight turbidity scarcely amounting to a granular deposit, provided it has been placed in a medium which does not change its ap- pearance ; but, if it is allowed to remain a short time in water, and still more if it is im- mersed in fluids which coagulate albumen, its interior speedily assumes a minutely granular aspect. The external wall of the vesicle then separates somewhat from the spherical gra- nular mass within ; and I have sometimes seen (as represented in fig. 51, r) a considerable condensation of the granular mass, so as to leave a large clear space between it and the external vesicle, and give it very much the ap- pearance of the yolk mass in the ova of some small animals within the vitelline membrane. This change seems to be a combined effect of the condensation of the granular mass and the imbibition of fluid by the external vesicle. In the earlier ovula this rounded molecular mass is of proportionately smaller size; and although it differs very much from the smaller nucleus or macula contained in the germinal vesicle of the ova of many other animals, there can be little doubt that it is derived from this structure, as will appear from what is hereafter said of the progress of its development. When the yolk has passed into the ovi- duct, and, in most instances, probably even sooner, or when it has entered the infundibulum, the germinal vesicle has entirely disappeared. Sometimes it is already gone before the open- ing of the ovarian capsule. The cicatricula then presents an irregularly broken appear- ance in consequence of the want of support from the wall of the vesicle, and the dif- fusion of the contents of the vesicle over the surface of the proligerous disc. The solution of the wall of the vesicle is probably a gradual process connected with the state of complete maturation of the ovule. It occurs, as is well known, in the unfecundated as well as in the fecundated egg, and cannot, there- fore, in itself, be dependent on the action of the spermatozoa; neither is it altogether caused by the mechanical pressure to which the yolk is subjected in issuing from the ovarian capsule, nor by the pressure of the oviduct itself; for it usually begins, and is sometimes completed before these causes can operate. The diffusion of the germinal substance from the vesicle (which in the fowl must have already received the spermatic influence in the ovary) has the effect thus of mingling with the remainder of the cicatricula, a ma- terial which, it can scarcely be doubted, ex- erts some immediate influence in inducing the change of segmentation and subsequent pro- cess of organisation by which the blastoderm is produced. Microscopic structure of the ovum. — The in- vestigation of the microscopic structure of the yolk is attended with considerable difficulty, in consequence both of the variety and the deli- cacy of the organised elements of which it consists. The following parts require our separate attention — viz., 1st. The yellow or external yolk substance; 2nd, the substance of the cavity and canal ; 3rd, that of the cica- tricula and cumulus ; 4th, the vitelline mem- brane. We shall consider these both in the laid egg and in the ovarian capsule. 1. From the effect of boiling the yolk, every one is familiar with the fact that its yellow substance is coarsely granular ; but the exact nature of the small bodies giving this granular structure has not been equally well understood. The examination of this sub- stance with a microscope of moderate magni- fying power in a newly laid egg, shows that almost all of the deeply coloured part of the yolk consists of spherical corpuscles of con- siderable size, so closely set together that they are mutually compressed; and thus, when the yolk has been hardened by boil- ing, the substance of the corpuscles being coagulated by heat, they present polyhedral forms; but when diffused in fluid in the un- boiled state, they are all nearly or quite sphe- rical. The size of these corpuscles varies between and of an inch; but the greater number of them are more near -^a^ or Some have described the yolk cor- puscles as floating in a fluid ; and no doubt in the earlier condition of the yolk, a consi- derable quantity of fluid exists, but in the more advanced condition the amount of mutual com- pression they exert when coagulated is suf- ficient to show that its quantity must be very small indeed. Those who have de- scribed the yolk substance as mainly consist- ing of a fluid holding in suspension a quan- tity of extremely minute granules or molecu- les, together'with some larger corpuscles, have probably been misled, by making an examina- tion of the yolk when not perfectly fresh, and when the larger corpuscles have been in part broken up, and thus resolved into the granular fluid of which they consist. There is no doubt that in birds, and in all the large-yolked animals, the deeply coloured vitelline sub- stance, which, in fact, forms the great mass af these ova, consists almost entirely of the large and usually spherical corpuscles just now noticed. In some animals the form is not