OVUM. [90] the membrane or wall of the follicle, and all that yet exists of the ovule. Next, the yolk substance is formed round the germinal vesicle ; first of all, as has been shown by Leuckart-|-, by the deposit of a clear viscid fluid, and next by the formation of dark or opaque small granules in this fluid adjacent to the germinal vesicle. Somewhat later the zona pellucida, Fig. 63 *. Ovarian follicle and ovum of the Rabbit at an early stage. The follicle here represented was about -pL- in diameter: in the figure it is shown as it appears under slight pressure. All the parts of the ovum are distinct, and its large size in proportion to the follicle and tunica granulosa is apparent. In the lower of the two figures the follicle is represented as having been burst by pressure and the ovum with the tunica granulosa in the act of escaping from within: the yielding character and elasticity of the zona is shown by the change of form during the escape, and the ovum afterwards regaining its spherical shape, o, the wall of the follicle ; t g, the tunica granulosa; z, the zona partially freed from the cell covering. The macula with the germinal vesicle is remarkably distinct, and is surrounded by a quantity of fine molecular substance. + Article Zeugung in Wagner's Handworterbuch der Physiologie, 1853. which cannot be said to have existed from the first, comes to be apparent outside the opaque granular substance of the yolk, and close to the epithelial cells which line the follicle: it seems as if it owed its origin to the condensa- tion of the outermost layer of the clear base- ment matter from which the yolk-substance is formed. The membrana granulosa consists for a time of a single layer of nucleated epithelial cells situated between the ovule and the Graafian follicle. The latter not being yet expanded by fluid, is at this period completely filled by the ovum. Such is the state of the parts, now all present, in follicles of from -j-i^ to ^ho" m di- meter. Subsequently the follicle increases in size much more rapidly than the ovum ; the membrana granulosa follows closely the wall of the follicle in its rapid expansion by the increasing accumulation of fluid within ; and the ovum is now found to be imbedded in a particular portion of the layer of granular cells constituting the cumulus. According to the best observations, then, as to the formation of the mammiferous ovum, it appears that the ovarian follicle, which we may look upon as the primary gland cell, is first produced ; that within it at a very early period the germinal vesicle with its nu- cleus next arises, and that very soon after the origin of this primary part the yolk-substance commences by a deposit of fluid and granules round the germinal vesicle ; that the Graa- fian follicle is lined by a layer of nucleated cells resembling epithelium, which constitute the commencement of the tunica granulosa ; that the zona pellucida, which forms the outer- most covering of the ovum when it leaves the ovary, is formed at an early period, but some- what later than the commencement of the other parts of the ovum ; and that it probably owes its origin to a membranous condensation of the outermost part of the clear primitive yolk-substance ; and that, finally, the tunica granulosa increases in quantity and extent, is expanded along with the follicle by the fluid within it, and being deposited at its thickened cumulus round the ovum encloses it in a part of its substance. The structure of the ovum is, on the whole, very similar throughout all the families of the class Mammalia in which it has been examined, excepting one, viz., the Monotremata. In Marsupialia, in which, from the remarkable deviation from the more common mode of gestation, it has been supposed that the ovum might present some peculiarities, it does not appear, from the observations of Professor Owen, that any remarkable difference is to be detected. In the ovisac there was observed a somewhat larger quantity of granular sub- stance than usual; but the diameter of one of the largest ova in the Macropus Parryi or Kangaroo was not greater than T|o", and the germinal vesicle was only TgVo"> wdiich is proportionally small; so that it cannot be held that in this animal there was apparent any approach to the oviparous type. In the Monotremata, however, the ovum is