234. REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). other object than the admission of the anthe rozoids. Fig. 157. Archegonium of the same, 300 diam. a, origin of the archegonium; the shaded vertical row of cells constitutes the rudiment of the organ ; b, archegonium immediately before impregnation. 61. Second period.—Fructification of the ar- chegonia. In the greater number of archego- nia, development ceases at the point above described. In those in which the germ-cell has received the influences necessary for its fructification, this last-named body enlarges rapidly, and very soon divides by a slightly Fig. 158. Archegonium of the same immediately after impregna- tion. The germ-cell has divided by an oblique septum. oblique septum, which is followed by a number of others, alternately inclined in opposite directions. This results in an egg-shaped body, perfectly separable from the surround- ing tissues. The last-formed summit-cell now divides by a septum which is inclined not in the opposite direction, but in a direction at right angles to that of its predecessor. This is followed by a second in the same relation ; that by a third, and so on continuously. The cylindrical rudiment now consists of four columns of cells, each of which is divided symmetrically by a vertical septum, into an external trapezoid and an internal three-sided cell. The former again divides, first, by a ver- tical, then by a horizontal septum, both of them perpendicular to the surface of the rudi- ment, which now consists of four central cel- lular columns, which are enclosed in eight others formed of trapezoidal cells. These last divide by vertical septa, alternately paral- lel and perpendicular to the external surface, by means of which the rudiment gradually thickens. This process goes on much more actively at the lower than at the upper or middle portion, in consequence of which it becomes club-shaped ; its swollen base being embedded in the parenchyma of the stem of the parent, and causes absorption of its cells. The cells in the neighbourhood of the ori- ginally six-sided canal leading to the germ, have in the meantime rapidly multiplied. The upper part of the canal now encloses the growing extremity of the rudiment, which, however, is separated from it by a quantity of fluid. It opens at the apex of a nipple-shaped projection of the upper surface of the frond, by a narrow aperture through which the coni- cal upper extremity of the rudiment protrudes, and, as it rises, usually carries with it the remains of the cells immediately surrounding the narrow channel through which it has forced its way. It now presents the horn-like form, characteristic of the mature fruit, from which the generic name of Anthoceros is derived. 62. Changes preparatory to the development of the spores.— An axile cylindrical column, consisting of four cellular piles, becomes dis- tinguished from those surrounding it by the cessation of the division of its cells by hori- zontal septa. In the layer which immediately surrounds it, on the contrary, division by hori- zontal septa occurs twice as frequently as in any other portion of the fruit. The hitherto homogeneous parenchyma becomes in con- Fig. 159. Section of half-ripe fruit of the same, 120 diam. The axile column of elongated cells is the columella. Next to it are two dark spaces corresponding to a cavity, which contains at its upper part parent cells of spores andelaters,—inferiorly the tubular cells from which they originate; a, capsule. sequence distinguishable into three portions — an external, of about five concentric layers of trapezoidal cells (the future capsule), an axile portion of elongated columnar cells (the future columella), and, interposed be- tween these, a eingle layer of tabular cells, whose greater surfaces are horizontal (the cells from which are formed the spores and elaters). 63. Development of the spores.—Those of the cells last mentioned, which are destined to become the mother-cells of spores, soon be- come detached from their neighbours, and assume a spherical form. Each at first con- tains a large central nucleolated nucleus, and