OVUM. 41 the minute embryoes, scarcely larger than the blood-discs of the frog, penetrate into the tissues or organs in which they afterwards be- come encysted ; thus affording the most direct proof from observation of the manner in which the young of these parasites become established in the internal parts of animals. The head, with the circle of hooklets and the four suckers, is then formed at the anterior part of the embryo, constituting now the scolex of Van Beneden ; and this author proposes to give the name of proscolex to the previous embryonic stage. In connection with the for- mation of the head of the encysted animal, it may also be noticed that Stein has observed the three pairs of embryo hooklets remaining for a time irregularly scattered over the en- larged vesicular part of the body.* When the. encysted animal (Cysticercus) has been introduced into the stomach and intestine of a suitable animal, generally a carnivorous one, it resists the digestive action of these organs, but speedily loses its caudal vesicle, and gradually acquires the new joints which are formed from the head. It is thus brought to the condition of the strobila, if we choose to liken the jointed state of the tape-worm to the multiple or divided polype stock from which medusae are thrown off; and lastly, as the sexual organs become fully developed in each of these joints, beginning in the posterior ones, which are first formed, these are detached one by one, and constitute in the separate condi- tion the bodies named proglottis by Dujardin and Van Beneden. The latter author regards these as alone the perfect animals of the Cestoid, the jointed strobila being only a pre- paring stock; and he adheres to the view, previously referred to in this article, that each proglottis approaches in some degree to the organisation of a Trematode animal. Ac- cording to the views of Van Beneden, there- fore, the different stages of a Cestoid worm are the following :—1st, the ovum ; 2nd, the first .embryo or proscolex; 3rd, the cysti- cercus, or encysted vesicular body, or scolex ; 4th, the jointed stock, tape-worm, or strobila; and 5th, the separate sexual individuals, or proglottides. Among the Trematode animals the pro- duction of a succession of new progenies by a process of internal non-sexual ge neration has received full confirmation. Van Beneden has added the important fact, how- ever, that some of the Trematoda are not subject to any process of alternate genera- tion or metagenesis. He has traced the whole process of direct development of the animal from the ovum of Udonella caligorum, a viviparous Trematode with large ova. The alternating generation belongs, according to him, to the Oviparous Trematoda, in which the ova are of small size. In reference to the Compound Medusoid Animals, Siphonophora and Physsophorida, * In observations made on encysted non-sexual round worms, and the encysted condition of a ces- toid inhabiting the Tenebrio molitor, and its larva, in Zeitsch. fur Wissen. Zool., vol. iv. p. 206. it appears from the researches of Leuckart, Kolliker, Gegenbaur and .others *, that the several joints of the connected chains of these animals, as previously conjectured by Milne, Edwards, and others, may fairly be regarded as distinct, though imperfect in- dividuals, some of which are destined for the sexual production of ova, while the free or floating polypine stock remains destitute of sexual organs. The free polypine stock is first developed from the fecundated ovum, and acquires its one or two swimming vesicles : from it there is afterwards formed the long chain of smaller bodies connected together by an extension of the digestive cavity and ex- ternal substance of the animal. Some of these form swimming bells or vesicles with prehensile and stinging filaments ; others are digesting cavities or stomachs, and others, most frequently those last formed in the chain, contain one or other of the sexual products, either male and female among the individuals of the same stock, or distinct sexes on separate stocks. But there is sometimes a combination of the motor and nutritive with the reproductive organs in the same in- dividuals of the chain, which warrants fully their being regarded as something more than the mere repetition of organs belonging to one animal. They are, in fact, the same as the sexual individuals of a compound po- lype ; and in some rare instances indeed they have been observed to become detached and to swim about in the separate condition. In connection with the alternating gene- ration of the Sal pas, in the discovery of which the whole series of facts now under review may be said to have originated, some doubts were in the previous part of the article stated to prevail as to the rela- tion of the sexes in the animals of the aggregated chain. These doubts have now been in a great measure removed, and the knowledge of the whole phenomena of the reproductive processes in these remarkable animals greatly extended by the researches of C. Vogtf and of H. Miiller.j From these researches it appears that while, as was pre- viously known, the Solitary Salpa? are en- tirely non-sexual, the animals united together in the aggregated chain, formed by successive gemmations from one spot of each solitary individual, are hermaphrodite, or possess both male and female sexual products. The ova however, according to Vogt are developed' at a much earlier period than the spermatic substance: indeed, they are advanced to the condition in which they are ready for fecun- dation, while their producers are still attached as a chain to their solitary gemmiparous parent. The spermigerous organs only advance to' perfection after separation; and the process of fecundation must therefore be effected in the animals of the attached chain by the * Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool., vol. iv. p 304 and vol. v. p. 285. &c.; and Kolliker's Memoir on 'the Siphonophora of Messina. Leipzig, 1853 t Bilder aus dem Thierleben, 1852, p. 59 % Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool., 1853, p. 329