84 PANCREAS. than in the adult ; a statement that my own frequent observations have verified. The specific gravity of this eland, accord- ing to Muschenbroeck*, is, compared to water, as 2029 to 1000. General appearance. — The best view of the external appearance of the pancreas is obtained on its anterior surface where it can be seen, through the peritoneum covering it, without any disarrangement of its structure. It is seen to be of a pale, clear, flesh colour, in which it strongly contrasts with the white cellular tissue investing it, with the yellow fat with which it is often surrounded, and with the grey and dingy coloured absorbent glands which lie contiguous. On looking more closely, it is seen to be mapped out into lobules, and this mapping out is sometimes more conspi- cuously marked by the septa of areolar tissue that separate the lobules being loaded with fat. The lobules are of very various shapes and sizes, from an eighth to three quarters of an inch in diameter, closely packed so as to fit into one another, and presenting an even general surface. But on a closer examination we see that these lobules are themselves sub- divided by less conspicuous septa into a great number of smaller lobes ; and these again, especially if assisted by a little separation with a fine knife or needle, are seen to consist of numerous minute granules, or acini, as they are termed, which, as far as the scrutiny of the naked eye goes, appear to constitute the ultimate structure of the gland ; but, as we shall see more fully presently, the microscope shows these in their turn to consist of aggre- gations of follicles, and therefore to be truly compound. Thus a mere inspection of the external surface of the pancreas gives an indication of its internal structure ; we see the acini by their aggregation constituting the lobules, the lobules the lobes, and the lobes the wlioie organ ; the association by which these parts are bound together being more and more intimate as we descend from the greater to the less ; but all of them, even the smallest, that come under the cognisance of the unassisted vision, being truly composite : this is a common character, and indeed a general description, of all conglomerate glands. The pancreas in consistence is moderately firm, the lobules having a considerable degree of hardness, but the whole gland having a certain laxness about it, from the way in which the lobes are hung together by areolar tissue. There is no proper capsule to the pancreas : the areolar tissue which invests it does so very unequally in different parts, and is strictly continuous on the one hand with that which attaches it to neighbouring parts, and on the other with that which penetrates between its lobules to the internal parts of the organ. On the anterior surface this areolar tissue is so deficient that the structure of the gland is in no way concealed by it. Internal structure.-—On cutting into the pancreas, we see that it is the same through- out its mass as it is on its surface; that it is * Introd, ad Pliilosoph. Natur., p. 556. solid and homogeneous ; that one part exactly resembles another; that there is the same aggregation of the acini into lobules and of lobules into lobes, and the same nesting in capsules of areolar tissue by the elasticity of which the acini and lobules are made to pro- trude from the cut surface, whereby it be- comes granulated and nodular; and this irregularity of surface is almost the only difference between the appearance of a section and that of the external surface as just now described. A good idea of the absolute and relative size of the different elements may be obtained by a section : the lobes may be said to have an average diameter of a of an inch ; the lobules TV> or \ of the lobes; the acini of an inch* ; but all the measurements are liable to the greatest variety. The areolar tissue, less abundant than in the salivary glands, consists almost entirely of the white fibrous element, and the areolae are very lax and large: it is most abundant near the centre of the gland around the duct, and about the head of the pancreas, where it forms a firm and intimate union between the gland substance and the duodenum. The duct of the pancreas, which has been called the canal of Wirsung, from its dis- covery by that anatomist in the year 1642, passes from left to right throughout the en- tire length of the organ, beginning within a few lines of its splenic extremity, by the union, at an acute angle, of two or more minute ramusculi, and emptying itself into the duodenum at or near the junction of its vertical and inferior-horizontal portions. Its course is somewhat sinuous ; it lies, on the average, about equidistant between the upper and lower margin, but nearer the pos- terior than the anterior surface. It is alto- gether concealed by the gland structure, even its point of entrance into the wall of the intestine. After originating in the manner described, it receives continuously in its course small branches which enter it at right angles, and which, unlike the main duct, are perfectly straight anil not sinuous, and mostly single and unbranched, each coming from its own appropriate lobe, without receiving any accessory branches from neighbouring ones ; so that they look, as Cruveilhier has said, like the legs of a centipede, of the which the main duct forms the body. By these tributary ducts the calibre of the main canal is gradu- ally increased till it reaches a diameter, at the right extremity of the gland, of ith of an inch. It is of an opaque white, and there- fore easily distinguishable from the gland substance. Its walls are thin and elastic, but dense and firm. In the tenuity of its walls it stands in strong contrast with the ducts of the salivary glands; but, like them, it is con- tinuous, by its external loose fibrous coat, with the areolar tissue of the gland. Just before entering the intestine the duct com- * This last measurement is taken from the rabbit, as it is difficult to isolate the acini of the human pancreas, or to take their measurement in situ, without isolation; but the measurement in the human subject very nearly approaches it.