RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 269 Weber, from the ^ to the'T\>of an nicn- It has been calculated by M. Rochoux that Fig. 217. Pleural surface of the human lung, indicating the lobules in shaded outline, and the air-cells a, a. {After Adriani.} as many as 17,790 air-cells are grouped round each terminal bronchus ; and that their total number in the lungs amounts to no less than six millions. The dimensions of the air- cells given by M.Moleschot*, are very much less than those of Rainey and Kolliker. Accord- ing to the former observer, they range from x^^th to TToTjth °f an i'10'1 : those of Car- penter and Kolliker correspond with those of Weber already stated. They continue to increase in size from birth to old age, and present in man a greater capacity than in woman. Dr. W. Addison supposed that the air-cells did not exist before birth, that they were mechanically formed by the first act of inspiration, and that the foramina between the cells were really ruptured partitions caused by the pressure of the atmosphere. Fig. 218. Ultimate pulmonary tissue from a foetus three months old. {After Hal ting, quoted by AdrianV) a, a, a, primitive " infimdibula," of -which the parietcs are as yet composed only of minute oval cells (c) ; b, b, b, elastic, tissue occupying the inter- vals between the infimdibula, exhibiting the nuclei of its cells. * Op. cit. It was, however, first proved by Mr. Rainey, and by Professor Hurting more lately, that they exist nearly as perfect in contour before as after birth. Neither the form, the num- ber, nor the disposition of the air-passages and cells can any longer be held as the off- spring of chance, but as the nicely adjusted products of marvellous foresight and design. The preceding statement will enable the reader to understand the sources of the dif- ferences by which the views of different writers upon the structure of the lungs are marked. It is easy to make a" labyrinth," a "passage," or a "group of vesicles," or " a funnel-shaped ar- rangement of cells," out of the complex ap- pearance which a section of an inflated and dried lung presents. It is important to observe that the classification of the cells into the 'pa- rietal and terminal, as suggested by Rossignol, is calculated to lead to a false idea as to the real arrangement of the air-cells within the lo- bule. The capsule of the lobule encloses a pear-shaped space ; but this is not the infun- dibulum of Rossignol. This ingenious author applies this term to those parts which Mr. Rainey and Dr. W. Addison have distin- guished as the air-passages surrounded and terminated by secondary passages and air- cells. The septa bearing alveoli which pro- ject everywhere into the funnel of Rossig- nol, render the word parietal, as applied to them, altogether unmeaning. Every recent observer admits that the air-cells open every- where into one another, such that the air entering one intercellular passage at one part of the lobule would traverse its entire extent through the intervening labyrinth of cells, and return through another air-passage into the same peduncular bronchus. When two sides of two contiguous air- passages or cells come into opposition, the resulting partition is not composed of two layers, but one. If the cells were formed by the protrusive force of the air in enter- ing in the first act of inspiration, such par- titions would, of mechanical necessity, consist of two layers: they are, however, formed by an act of organisation. This curious and distinctive fact in the history of the human and the mammal lung will be again referred to. As the partitions of the cells are organised before birth, it follows that the geometrical outline of each cell must be determined before the first act of inspiration. The same argument applies to the foramina between the cells. They are not accidental perforations; they are definitively and de- signedly organised orifices, and are sustained in a permanently patulous state by an arch- like arrangement of elastic fibres, which will be afterwards described. As the air-cells of the lungs of mammals generally bear no proportion in size to that of the body of the animal, so in the human subject there is no relation between the di- mensions of these cells and the stature of the body ; and it is probable that no estimate can be formed of the vital capacity of the lungs