2.57 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). Zoosporous Unicellular Alga. Conjugating Unicellular Alga. Protozoon.* Production of a series of Zoospores. Cessation of motion. Production of a series of sterile Podophryee. Conjugation of two Podophryas. Cessation of growth. Production of a series Monads, winch are transformed into Vor- tieella;. Cessation of motion. Transformntiou'of Vortieella; into sexual Actinophries. Conjugation followed by Cessation of growth. * In the zoosporous Alga?, constantly recurring series of unisexual generations are produced indefinitely. In Vortieella the production of Monads may also recur repeatedly, without the intervention of any sexual stage. So long as this is the ease the two developments correspond completely. Here it may be observed that in the stage of cessation of growth, which, in the Pro- tozoon, as well as in the Protophyton, follows the act of conjugation, we have a condition which corresponds to that of the ovum of the higher animals. The ovum after passing through a period of repose, resembling that which presents itself in Podophrya, exhibits a series of transformations, which correspond to the later steps of the developments under our consideration. This correspondence is, as might be expected, more distinctly seen in the lower than in the higher animals. Thus for example, in the development of a Trema- tode Worm (Distomum pacificuni), the mass of the yolk is transformed into a locomo- tive rudiment resembling an infusory animal. Within this originates an asexual, but fertile nurse, the homologue of the Vortieella, in the interior of which is formed a second and numerous generation of animals endowed with locomotion (Cercaria;). In these, after a time, the locomotive power is lost, and each finally becomes a sexual Distomum.* Although the foregoing homologies are founded on observations the details of which are as yet imperfectly worked out (on which account it may seem somewhat premature to draw attention to them), they arc not open to the objections which may be urged to homo- logies supposed to exist between the highest members of the two series. There, the con- necting links are wanting; here, we pass through closely related intermediate forms, from the Alga to the Protozoon, and from the Protozoon to the Trematode Worm. Hence, while we are not justified in applying the term ovum to the generative product of the phanerogamous plant, the present state of our knowledge allows us with propriety to compare with the ovum the result of con- jugation as it occurs among the Alga;. The differences in chemical composition which exist between the Alga; and the Pro- tozoa will not serve as a ground of distinc- tion. Euglena is invested during its period of repose with a cellulose membrane and contains granules of chlorophylle. In Poly- toma uvella we find, on the one hand, the contractile vesicles of the infusory animal, on the other, starch in the granular form, so characteristic of the plant.f (./. Burdon Sanderson.} * Carus, " System dor Thierischen Morph," s. 329. t A. Schneider, "Beitriige zur Entwick. der In- Snpp. BiBLiooTtApiiY. — Alo.e. — Kohlreutcr, Das en- deckte Geheimniss der Cryptogamie. Carlsruhe, 1777. Hedwig, Theoria Generatiouis et Fructifica- tionis Plant. Crypt. Leipsic, 1798. Voucher, His- toire des Conferves d'Eau douce. Geneva, 1803. Kaulfuss, Die Keimung der Characeen. Leipsic, 1825. Unyer, Die Pflanze im Momente der Thier- werdung. Vienna, 1843. Midler (A'.), Entwick. der Chara, Bot. Zeit, 1845, p. 410. Rolfs, British Desmidias. London, 1848. Kutziny, Phycologia generalis. Nordhausen, 1845. Fungi and Lichens. — Malpighi, De Plantis qua; in aliis vegetant, Up. omn. t. i. 48. Meyen, Pllanzon-Physiologie, v. iii. Meyer, Entwick. der Flechten. Gottingen, 1825. Wcdlroth, Natur- gesch. der Flechten. Frankfurt, 1825. Unger, Die Exan theme der Pflanzen. Vienna, 1838. Korber, De Gonidiis Lichenum. Berlin, 1839. Schmitz, Bei- tritge zur Anatomic unci Physiologie der Schwiimme. Linnosa, 1843. Hepatjc;e and Mosses. — Sckmidel, Icones Plantarum, 17G2. Hedwig, Fundamenta Hist. Nat. Muse. Frond. Leipsic, 1782. Nees v. Esenbeek, Naturgesch. der Europ. Lebermoose, 1838. Bi- schoff and Lindenberg, Nova Acta A. L. C, xvii. and xviii. Mold, Anatom. Untersueh iiber Sphagnum, Sporangien der mit Gefilssen versehenen Cryptog. Tubingen, 1837. Schimper, Recherches sur les Mousses. Strasbourg, 1848. Lanzius Beninya, De Evol. Sporidiorum. Gottingen, 1844. Ferns and Equisetace^h. — Agardh, and Vou- cher, Mem. du Mus. d'Hist. Nat. de Geneve, 1822- 23. Koulfuss, Das Wesen der Farnnkrauter. Leip- sic, 1827. Mold, Morphol. Betrachtungen iiber die Cryptog., Tubingen, 1837. Bischoff, Entwick. der Equisetaceen, Nova Acta A. L. C, xiv., 1828. Ndgeli, Anther, der Farnnkrauter, Zeit. f. w. Bot., i. 168. Zurich, 1844. Leszczyc Suminski, Ent- wick. der Farnnkrauter. Berlin, 1848. Merklin, Prothal. der Farnnkrauter. St. Petersburg, 1850. Khizocarpeye and Lycofodiaceye. •—Bischoff, in op. cit. Niiyeli, in op. eit., extr. in Ann. des Sc. Nat., ix. 99. Mi/de, Entwick. der Equiseten unci Ehizocarpeen, Nova Acta A. L. C, 1852. Phanerogamia Camerarius, Dissertatio de re Botanica, 1676. 4to. Tubingse, 1717. Grew, Anat. of Vegetables, &c., 8vo. London, 1672. Malpighi, Anatome Plantarum. Op. omnia, t. ii., fol. Lon- don, 1687. Linnccus, On the Sexes of Plants. Lon- don, 1786. Morland ( Samuel), Observations on the Parts and Use of the Flower and Plant, Phil. Trans., 1703, p. 1477. Treeiranus, Die Entwick. des Em- bryo. Berlin, 1815. Amid, Mem. della Soc. Ital., xix. , pp. 253-257. Padua, 1823. Brown (Bolt), Bo- tanical Appendix to King's Voyage. London, 1826. Fritsche, Devel. du Pollen, Mem. de l'Acad. de St. Petersbourg, 1835. Schacht, Entwiekelungsges- chichte des Pllanzen-Enibryo. Amsterdam, 1850. The reader is further referred to various researches contained in the 3rd Series of the Ann. des Sc. Nat. fusorien," Midler's Archiv. No. 2. 1854. These re- searches we recommend to the reader's attention, as containing observations of great importance in. relation to the present question. s