713 EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. cular structure (fig. 483. b and e), which has been usually regarded as the constrictor of the vaginal orifice, but which Kobelt considers to be more particularly employed as a com- pressor of the parts just named. This muscle takes its origin in a broad flattened base (b) from the perineal fascia midway between the anus and tuber ischii. The inner fibres inter- lace with those of the sphincter ani, while the outer ones reach to the corresponding ascend- ing ischial ramus. Thence the muscle be- comes gradually smaller as it ascends, and after embracing the entire length and breadth of the vestibular bulb, it converges forwards to meet its fellow at the clitoris, where it termi- nates in two little flattened portions of which the posterior passes as a narrow tendon (fig- 483. d) to unite with its fellow between the upper end of the bulb and the root of the clitoris, while the anterior looser portion (c) mounts over the dorsum of the clitoris, form- ing the musculus altrahens cUtoridis. This serves to depress the organ and compress the dorsal vein, at the same time that the lower portion of the same muscle, by com- pressing the rest of the vascular apparatus, forces the blood out of the vestibular bulb and pars intermedia upwards into the body of the clitoris, and thus aids in producing congestion and erection of all these parts dining coition. Fig. 483. Anterior view of the parts represented in Fig. 482. {After Kobelt.') a, vestibular bulb ; //, constrictor vagina: muscle, according to Kobelt the compressor of the bulb. It is here represented as drawn back behind the bulb, which in the natural position is covered by it. c, an- terior division of the muscle which passes over the body of the clitoris, serving to depress the organ, and to compress the dorsal vein; d, posterior tendinous division of the same muscle; e, pars intermedia;/, glans clitoridis; g, veins proceeding from the nymphas; h, dorsal vein of the clitoris; i, branches com- municating with the obturator veins; A, branches ascending to the epigastric veins; /, obturator veins; m, corpus clitoridis; n, mis clitoridis of the left side. Blood-vessels of the external organs. — The arteries are supplied by the terminal branches of the internal pudics and from branches of the femoral. The pudic sends off two branches : the first, or lower (superficial perineal branch), terminates in the labium after supplying the sphincter vaginae and some of the perineal muscles. The second, or superior, mounting along the ischio-puhic rami to the division of the crura clitoridis, sends off a branch (artery of the bulb) to the bnlbus vestibuli, anil then separates into two terminal twigs, the one (profunda, branch) entering the cavernous sub- stance of the clitoris, while the other forms the dorsal artery of that body (fig. 481. //). The femoral supplies the external pudics, two in number on each side, which arise by a common trunk or singly from the inner side of that vessel. The superior of these branches (superior pudenda externa) arises near the cru- ral arch and, passing inwards, sends off two branches, one to the mons veneris and lower part of the abdominal integuments, the other, terminating in the labium, sends also twigs to the nympha and preputium clitoridis. The inferior branch (inferior pudenda externa), arising a little below the former, or from the profunda, passes obliquely towards the labium in which it terminates, anastomosing also with the superficial perineal branch of the pudic. Veins.—The veins of the clitoris and the