PANCREAS. 10G pose, any separation between the pancreatic fluid and the fatty matters. After the lapse of some hours it became evident that the fat had not only been minutely subdivided and emulsified, but that it had, furthermore, been chemically modified. In fact the neu- tral fatty matter and the alkaline pancreatic juice, constituting at the moment of mixture a white liquid with an alkaline reaction, had, five or six hours afterwards, acquired a re- action distinctly acid. In examining what had taken place, it was easy to show, by the ordinary means, that the fatty matter had been decomposed into glycerine and a fatty acid. In the test-tube in which the butter had been subjected to the action of the pan- creatic fluid, the butyric acid was easily recognised, even at a distance, by its charac- teristic odour. Bernard then goes on to prove, by the method of elimination, the unicity and propriety of this property of the pancreatic secretion, by showing that no other fluid in the body — bile, saliva, gastric juice, serum, the cephalorachidian fluid — is capable of ex- citing it: all these fluids mixed with the various fatty matters failed in producing an analogous effect in any degree. This instantaneous emulsion, however, of neutral fatty matters, and their separation into glycerine and a fatty acid, is only effected by normal pancreatic juice ; that is to say, a pancreatic juice, alkaline, viscid, and coagu- lating in a mass by heat or the strong acids. If, on the other hand, the oil is mixed with a morbid or altered specimen of the secretion — that is, watery, without viscosity, and not coagulating by heat,—its action on the fatty matters is nil, and a speedy separation takes place between the inert pancreatic fluid and the unmodified fatty matter. Taking as a postulate the admitted fact, that it is the white, opaque, milky chyle alone that contains fatty matter, Bernard then pro- ceeds to show by experiments on the living animal, that fatty matter thus modified alone finds its way into the lacteals, is alone ab- sorbable, and that it is the pancreatic juice only that is capable of effecting this change. In all dogs killed in mid-digestion of fatty aliments, the fat was merely fluidified by the heat of the stomach, retained all its charac- ters, and, on the application of cold, congealed on the surface of the gastric juice like the fat on broth. In the intestine, on the con- trary, below the openings of the pancreatic duct, the fat could not be distinguished by these characters, but formed a pultaceous, creamy, emulsive material; and the lacteals were gorged with a white, homogeneous, milky chyle. But when the pancreatic ducts were tied, the fat remained unaltered in the intestine, and the lacteals contained nothing but a limpid chyle free from all fatty material, which had ceased to be absorbed in con- sequence of the abstraction of the pancreatic secretion. Furthermore, in the rabbit (in which, by an arrangement altogether exceptional, the pancreatic duct opens into the intestine at a distance of 10 or 12 inches from the pylorus), another proof of the same fact may be ob- tained without any ligature or mutilation. If a rabbit be crammed with lard, and the intestines examined in mid-digestion, the fat contained in the small intestine above the opening of the duct will be found unchanged, while that immediately below and downward has undergone the emulsifying process. The lacteals, also, above that point are filled with a limpid chyle, while those arising immediately below are conspicuous for their milky, opaque contents. It is impossible, as Bernard says, to find, in the whole range of experimental physiology, a more elegant and simple method of proof. The tardiness of physiologists in the dis- covery of this function may be explained, Bernard thinks, by their minds being pre- occupied with the false notion that the pan- creatic secretion was analogous to the saliva ; and the assignation of this function to the bile by Sir Benjamin Brodie, he accounts for thus. Brodie performed his experiments on cats, and found that, after ligature of the cho- ledoch duct, the lacteals contained no fat, and that the chyle was limpid and transparent. Shortly after, Magendie, with the view of verifying these experiments, repeated them on dogs, but found that the absorption of the fat and the whiteness of the ch}le were in no way interfered with by the ligature of the gall-duct. Now in cats the pancreatic duct joins the choledoch before it enters the intes- tine ; so that it is conceivable that Sir Benj. Brodie, having only in view the action of the bile, and attaching no importance to the pan- creatic canal, had tied the one with the other: and thus the absence of fatty matter in the clnle may be explained. But in dogs the choledoch is completely separate from the two pancreatic ducts, so that after its ligature the flow of the pancreatic juice remains perfectly free, the fat continues to be emulsified, and the chyle to possess its characteristic white- ness. These experiments, therefore, are en- tirely in accord, and the difference of their results is strictly assignable to the different disposition of the ducts in the animals on which they were respectively performed. Some little time ago, while engaged with Dr. Todd in some investigations upon this subject, I tied the gall-duct in some score of dogs, and invariably found that its ligature in no way interfered with the absorption of the fat and the perfect elaboration of the chyle. As long as the supply of the pancreatic secre- tion was not interfered with, the emulsifying of the fat was complete, and its absorption entire. I also repeated Bernard's experi- ments on rabbits, and obtained results in perfect accord with his views. I injected melted lard into the stomach, then gave them a meal of green food, and killed them in three or four hours. The point of immergence of the pancreatic duct was most distinctly that of the commencement of the opacity of the chyle : the lacteals above were filled with a fluid clear and limpid.