275 RESPIRATION. veins proceeding from several lobules unite together into a trunk common to them all. The larger trunks, resulting from the conflu- ence of the smaller, converge towards the roots of the lungs, but by a route different from that of the bronchia and arteries. Thus the general mass of the lung may be regarded as containing two series of ramified canals; one transmitting the bronchial tubes, the nerves and pulmonary artery, the other the pulmo- nary veins. This interesting fact was well described by Dr. Addison of Guy's Hospital in a paper in the Medico Chirurgical Trans- actions in 1840. At the root of the lungs four pulmonary veins result, which discharge their blood into the left auricle. " The cause of the separate course of the pulmonary arteries and veins is to be found in the opposite posi- tion of their radicles in regard to the capillary net-work of the lobules, it being a convenient arrangement for the terminal arterial and venous twigs to hold alternate positions among the capillary net-work, so that each arterial twig dispenses its blood in all direc- tions, and each venous radicle collects it from all sides." * The Bronchial System of Vessels consists of arteries and veins. The bronchial arteries are commonly described as the nutrient vessels of the bronchial tubes. They arise from the front of the descending or thoracic aorta. They are, however, variable in number as well as in place of origin. They are commonly described as the inferior and superior. The superior, two usually in number, arise either separately or by a common trunk from the front of the aorta, opposite the third or the fourth dorsal vertebra, and one directed to each side adheres to the posterior surface of the bronchial tube, on which it divides into bl anches, and passes into the interior of the lung. The inferior, two or more in number, arise lower down than the preceding, and are distri- buted, like them, on the bronchus of each lung : these small arteries give branches to the oesophagus, bronchial glands and pericar- dium. The superior bronchial artery of the left side may arise from the superior inter- costal artery. Every successful injection ex- hibits large and long branches from these ves- sels, leaving the tracks of the bronchi, and entering into the inter-lobular tissue and sub-pleural tissue, -f- The bronchial Veins accompany the arteries, * Physiol. Anat. by Todd and Bowman, p. 393. vol. ii. t In an excellent paper recently read before the Royal Society (June 9th, 1853), Dr. Heale states this fact still more strongly. He denies that the vascu- lar plexus, distributed over the walls of the bron- chial tubes, is derived at all from this system of vessels, but from the pulmonary rete. I have re- peatedly remarked, that the bronchial plexus cannot be injected from the aorta. I ascribed the circum- stance always to some imperfection in the attempt. It will be seen in the text further on, however, that my injections prove the presence of a bronchial plexus on the exterior of the bronchial tubes, though not on the interior. and the branches unite one for each side ; the right opens into the azygos vein, and the left into the superior intercostal vein. Many branches may be traced also to the oesopha- geal veins, and those of the posterior medias- tinum. Numerous branches of these veins may be observed to wander under the pleura, in the sub-pleural tissue. Anastomoses between the Bronchial and Pul- monary Systems of Vessels.— Since the days of Ruyseh, Haller, Soemmering, and Reisseissen, this has proved a vexed question in anatomy. One point in this controversy has been over- looked. The bronchial arteries are said to be the nutrient vessels, not of the lungs, but of the bronchi. The tissue composing the struc- ture of the air-cells and intercellular passages of the lungs is nourished by the blood of the pulmonary system. In the lungs of Reptiles there exists no bronchial system of vessels. The solid walls of these organs are occupied exclusively by the pulmonary system. It is upon the latter, therefore, that the function of nourishing the substance, the parenchyma, of these organs must devolve in these animals. Thus is proved the capacity of this blood. The epithelial particles and elastic fibres] of the air-cells derive the materials of their nu- trition from the blood of the plexus (the true pulmonary) on which they immediately lie. It is indisputable, therefore, that the afferent blood of the lungs, like that of every other gland, discharges a twofold office,—that pro- per to the gland, and that of nourishing its tissue. Two systems or layers of capillary plexuses are discoverable on the walls of the bronchial tubes ; one lies immediately under- neath the mucous membrane, and exhibits ex- tended oblong meshes, which run parallel with the yellow elastic fibres; the other lies on the outside of the circular muscular layer, so that the stratum of muscles is interposed be- tween the two systems of vessels. This outer layer of vessels, its trunks and capillaries, run circularly with the fibres of the muscles and at right angles with those of the submucous layer. The blood of the former empties itself into the pulmonary vessels; that of the latter (the outer) returns by means of the bronchial veins. This, in brief, is the result of the au- thor's investigations. They are confirmatory of those of Adriani. The mode in which the bronchial and pulmonary vessels communicate is stated differently by different authors. Some suppose that the blood of the bronchial arte- ries is poured directly into the pulmonary artery, with the venous blood of which it admixes, and like which, traversing the respi- ratory plexus, becomes arterialised before it reaches the left auricle. On this supposition the blood entering the left auricle would be purely and exclusively arterial. By other ana- tomists— of these Rossignbl is the most pro- minent*— it is contended that the bronchia * " Dans les injections faites paries arteres bron- chiques, le liquide revenait en abondance par les veines pulmonaires, en bien moinclre quantite par les veines bronchiques, et ou n'en retrouvait aucune trace dans les rameaux de l'artere pulmonaire."