86 PANCREAS. duodenum.* Towards its orifice the duct more or less enlarges itself; but at its very aperture, on the contrary, it undergoes a contraction. The appearance of a valve guarding the orifice depends merely on the partition which separates its mouth from that of the choledoch duct. Occasionally near the orifice, occasionally higher up, there is a valve-like process projecting from its inner surface ; but this is not constant either in its situation or its existence. From the narrowness of the duodenal ori- fice of the pancreatic duct, from the movable and yielding nature of the eminence upon which it opens, and from the oblique course of the duct through the walls of the duo- denum, it follows that the pancreatic fluid and the bile may pass freely into the duode- num, but cannot regurgitate from it into the ducts. " On this subject," says Cruveilhier -j-, " I have made several experiments. I have forcibly injected both water and air into the duodenum, included between two ligatures, but nothing escaped; on the other hand, I have injected the same fluids from the duct into the duodenum, which I was thus able to distend at pleasure. But then, on com- pressing the bowel with great force, I have never been able to cause the slightest re- flux into the ducts." The spur-like process formed by the lining membrane reflected upon itself at the junction of the ductus choledochus and the pancreatic duct, ex- tending down to the duodenal orifice, does not prevent the fluid of one canal from passing into the other. Thus the pancreatic fluid might regurgitate into the ductus choledochus, and, on the other hand, the bile might enter the pancreatic duct, if these canals were not habitually full. Moreover, this spur-shaped process between the two canals cannot arrest the flow either of the bile or pancreatic fluid, by being applied to the orifice of the one or the other duct. Fig. 56. is a diagrammatic representation of the manner in which the ducts traverse the walls of the duodenum and terminate in the papilla, and of their relation to one another, and to the coats of the intestine. Vessels.—The arteries of the pancreas, which, for the size of the gland, are large and numerous, are, like those of other conglomerate glands, contributed from many sources, and are derived from the branches of the coeliac axis, and from the superior mesenteric. The principal are the pancreatico-duodenalis of the hepatic and the pancreatic branches of the splenic artery, — one of which, the pancrea- tica magna, sometimes runs nearly the whole * Soemmerring considers the apposition of the two ducts in the wall of the intestine a junction, and the partition between them merely a valve: indeed, it is to that portion of the bile duct, so joined by the pancreatic, that he restricts the ap- pellation ductus choledochus. " Ductus choledochus, id est ductus hepaticus, ci/sticus, et pancreaticus in unum co7tflati." (Corp. Hum. Fab.) A definition as unphysiological as it is inconsistent with critical anatomy. | Descriptive Anatomy. length of the gland, accompanying the duct from left to right. The branches from the Fig. 50. e do Diagram of the normal method of termination of the pancreatic and bile-ducts in the human subject, showing their oblique transit through the successive elements of the wall of the intestine, their gradual approximation to one another, their final union at the base of the ampulla or cavity oj'the papilla, and the spur-like process separating them, a is the bile-duct; b, the pancreatic; c, d, and e, the muscular and mucous coats of the intestine. superior mesenteric are mostly derived from that small twig which, given off just at the lower border of the pancreas, anastomoses with the pancreatico-duodenalis. The veins empty themselves into the superior mesenteric and splenic. The lymphatic vessels have not, that I know of, been demonstrated, nor have I been able to detect them myself: they are supposed to enter the lumbar glands in the neighbourhood. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus, and enter the gland at different parts, accom- panying the branches from the arteries of the cceliac axis. II. Microscopical Anatomy. Gland substance.—The subject of the micro- scopical anatomy of the pancreas is one of great difficulty, and, until I came to examine it for myself, I had no idea how great. The deli- cacy and tenuity of the structures, even when seen most advantageously ; the destruction of all their natural relations, and consequent im- pairment of the value of observations by cut- ting, tearing, or compression ; the rapid change that takes place in the microscopical elements themselves, in whatever medium they are placed for examination, by deliquescence, so- lution, or endosmosis; the conflicting character of different appearances ; and the discrepancy of many of them with the interpretations