65 OVUM. i). Egg from the lower part of the glandular oviduct near the isthmus, when the deposit of albu- men is complete; the spiral arrangement of the albumen made manifest by slight coagulation. attached to the opposite ends or poles of the yolk by means of a membrane which looks ex- actly like a continuation of the twisted part of these bodies opening or expanded over the surface of the vitelline membrane. These bodies attracted considerable notice from the earlier observers of the structure of the egg, and have had various uses attributed to them ; but, if we may judge from the varieties they arc subject to in the fowl and other birds, and their absence in the ova of scaly reptiles (otherwise very similar to those of birds), it would appear that they are only of secondary importance. One of the chalazse is directed towards the larger, and the other to the smaller end of the egg, and the latter usually adheres with some firmness to the inside of the shell-membrane, while that of the large end floats more freely. In this manner the yolk moves more freely at the large than at the small end of the egg. The spiral twist is in opposite direc- tions in the two chalazse; a circumstance depending on the manner of their production, by the gradual deposit of albumen and the spiral motion of the yolk during its descent in the oviduct. The membrane which pro- ceeds from the chalazse over the surface of the yolk has been called chalaziferous; and the funnel-shaped dilatation of the chalazse where they join the membrane, has been sup- posed to be the opening of a tube passing through these bodies, and serving as a conduit from the white to the yolk ; but entirely without reason. The chalaziferous membrane and innermost twisted part of the chalazse are, in fact, nothing more than the first- deposited and densest parts of the albumen ; nor is any importance to be attributed to a curved line or fold of the membrane which is often seen stretching over the yolk between the adhering parts of the opposite chalazse. The fact of the upturning of the side of the yolk which bears the cicatricula has already been adverted to, as well as the supposition that Supp. the chalazse may be the means of securing this position ; but, although it is well ascer- tained that these bodies control, in various directions, the motions of the yolk, they can- not be the cause of the upturning of the cica- tricula ; as this is secured by the difference of specific gravity in the upper and lower parts of the yolk. The true action of the chalazse is to limit the motions of the yolk in the long axis of the egg, and control the rota- tion during a certain time ; but in incubation the relations of the chalazse, white, and yolk are very soon changed ; and, in the progress of these changes, the remains of the denser white are collected at the lower part of the egg. If a fresh egg be turned round on its long axis, the cicatricula will keep its position up- wards for one turn or a little more, and then, by the twisting of the chalazse, the yolk is carried completely round, and balances itself again with the cicatricula uppermost in its new position. The accessory parts of the egg, now de- scribed, are formed round the yolk or ovarian eggduring its descent through the oviduct; and as they may be regarded as only indirectly connected with the functions of the true ovu- lum in their relation to embryonic develop- ment, it may be best to complete their history at this place by stating what has been ob- served as to their formation, referring for this to the researches of Purkinje, Coste, and others, which I have confirmed in most parti- culars by the examination of a considerable number of fowls during the process. Formation of the external or accessory parts of the bird's egg.—These parts are produced with much greater rapidity than those of the ovulum. Many fowls lay an egg every twenty- four hours for a part of the season, while others lay only every second day, or two or three days in succession, generally at a later hour on each successive day, and then intermit for a day ; other fowls lay regularly nearly every thirty-six hours. There is probably some difference in the rapidity of the descent of the egg, or at least in the length of time it remains in particular parts of the oviduct, in these various cases ; but in general the whole passage of the egg, from the time of the re- ception of the yolk by the infundibulum to its being laid, occupies about twenty-four hours. If a fowl which is laying only every second day, be killed and opened from seventeen to twenty hours, or if one which is laying daily be opened from three to six hours after the last egg was deposited, one of the ovarian capsules will sometimes be found completely enveloped by the infundibulum of the oviduct, which is thus in the act of receiving the ovulum or yolk about to be discharged by the cleaving of the capsule along the stigmatic band.* The infun- dibulum is contracted round the neck or pedi- cle of the ovarian capsule, so that the whole is embraced by it with moderate firmness, and the yolk thus usually passes securely into the * See a later sect ion for an account of the circum- stances which influence the discharge of the ovarian ovula. F