PANCREAS. 94 creas a glandular body very like the liver in appearance, stretched as a layer between the Fig. 70. Mucus membrane of the interior of the pyloric ccecum of a Herring ( Clupcea harengus). A, the surface seen vertically, showing the honey- comb appearance formed by the septa separating the masses of epithelium. (Magnified 150 dia- meters.) b, a section vertical to the surface, showing the flattened spheroidal shape of the acuvuli of epithe- lium, and the amount of projection of the septa between them. (Magnified GO diameters ) folds of the gastro-hepatic omentum, enveloping the cystic canal and accompanying it as far as the intestine. These three examples of mala- cocopterygious fish have no pyloric casca, and this glandular structure might be considered as replacing them ; but Alessaudrini has also de- scribed in the sturgeon, the walls of whose in- testinal canal are particularly glandulous and in which the pancreatic ca?ca form an elaborate apparatus, a proper pancreas with an excretory duct opening into the intestine in the middle of a tubiform papilla about an inch from the pyloric orifice. In this last case Cuvier be- lieved the bodv' indicated as the pancreas to be a lobe of the liver. " The tubiform pa- pilla," he says, " truly exists ; indeed I have found two, besides that appertaining to the choledoeh duct. In one of the examples it formed a sort of cul-de-sac; in the other the fibre which was introduced conducted to a canal which took a direction towards the liver. I have clearly seen an excretory duct in a very large silurus, piercing the intestine of the side of the choledoeh ; but that canal was, in my opinion, hepatic, for the glandular substance taken as the pancreas was evidently continuous with the right lobe of the liver, and formed, as it were, a middle lobe ; its appearance was in other respects the same, except that its colour was rather clearer in consequence of its substance being less thick at that part. The duct discovered in the pihe certainly exists, as far as my re- searches go; but that, again, is an hepatic canal, for I have not seen any body distinct from the liver from which it takes its origin, or which could be considered as a pancreas. The same must be said of the carp, where Meckel could discover neither a pancreas nor pancreatic duct, in spite of the indications of Weber." Still more recently Stanmus has enumerated many fish in which a parenchy- matous pancreas may be found ; but the de- scription added to his enumeration is so meagre and general that nothing can be veri- fied upon it. Reptilia. — In the reptiles we make a great approach to the structure of the pancreas of higher animals both in general form and struc- tural appearance. It exists in them all, and generally maintains that intimate relation to the end of the stomach and commencement of the intestine which we see so constant in birds and mammalia. In the Batrachia, the pancreas is situated in a proper mesentery or meso-gastrium of its own, extending between the lesser cur- vatur of the stomach and the duodenum, and, according to Cuvier, is more developed in terrestrial batrachians than in aquatic, in those that take their nourishment out of the water than in those that hunt and seize it in the water. In the Frog (Jig. 71.) the pancreas is shaped not unlike that of the human sub- ject, but its broad end is in the opposite position; it is about three quarters of an inch long, weighs -27 of a grain, and is of a yellowish white colour and soft consistence; it is in close apposition with the duodenum all the way Pancreas of the Frog, shown by throwing up the stomach, and exhibiting the under surface of the mesogastrium. a, oesophagus; b, stomach ; c, pylorus; d, duo- denum; e, small intestines; /, liver; p, pancreas; s, spleen. (Natural size.) along. From near the large end it sends up a process clothing and concealing the gall duct as far as the gall bladder, the neck of which it invests. The whole of the gall duct, till the point of its immergence into the in- testine, is thus concealed in the substance of the gland, and it might at first sight be mis- taken for the pancreatic duct; but, by care- fully nicking it and introducing a fine hair, the hair may be passed up to the liver. The most careful dissection could not reveal a proper duct ; probably small ducts from different