69 OVUM. F 3 towards the cicatricula, near which it again widens and spreads out like a shallow cone. This whiter internal substance constitutes what has been called the central cavity (or Iatebra) of the yolk : the whole of this inner part has something of the shape of a flask, with a narrowing neck and a wider mouth at the top, which is, as it were, surmounted or closed in by the cicatricula. (See fig. 49.) The shape of the yolk, I have said, is not that of a regular ellipsoid ; the less density of the upper part, which is towards the cica- tricula, giving rise to a widening of the yolk on that side, as may be seen in fig. 44, a, which represents a vertical section of an egg boiled while lying on its side. This does not depend simply on the rising of oil globules in greater quantity to the upper side of the yolk, but, as has already been noticed, on the fixed predominance of globules containing oil in the neighbourhood of the cicatricula. Neither is the outer deeper-coloured por- tion of the yolk altogether uniform in structure or appearance; for it will be seen, both in the raw and boiled egg, but most easily in the latter, that several concentric layers surround the central cavity and canal of the yolk, as well as the funnel-shaped dilatation which lies below the cicatricula. These layers are marked by a slight variation in colour, and are attended by a difference in the minute structure of the corpuscles composing the alternate layers. They probably depend upon the growth of the coloured part of the yolk being more or less rapid at different successive periods. The cicatricula of the newly laid egg is a spot of an opaque yellowish white, easily dis- tinguished by its difference of colour from the rest of the yolk, about one sixth of an inch in diameter, and lying immediately within the vitelline membrane, in connection at its mar- gins with the most superficial layer of the yolk substance. Examined in a favourable light* it will be found, that in the laid egg, when fecundated, the cicatricula consists of a central clearer and thinner part, and of an external more opaque annular portion. The central part is about one third the diameter of the whole, and seems as if it perforated the remainder of the disc with a circular aperture, something after the manner of the pupil of the iris. There is not, however, any perforation in reality, but only a greater thin- ness and transparency of the central part of the disc. Neither is this central part entirely clear; for there is placed below its middle a round heap of whitish granules, described by Pander as the nucleus cicatricula (see the figure in section), which gives greater opacity to that part when viewed directly from above. The central part of the cicatricula, already * It may be here mentioned, that by far the best mode of examining the natural appearances of the parts as they lie in the opened egg, is to allow a ray of strong or of direct sunlight to fall upon the part which it is wished to investigate, through an aperture in a screen, which places the rest of the egg and the observer in comparative darkness. obvious when the egg is first laid, is the same which, after some hours of incubation, ex- pands, changes its figure, and becoming still Fig. 50. Structure of the cicatricula in a laid Fowl's egg. a. Diagrammatic section of the yolk near the cicatricula, enlarged; a, vitelline membrane; b, cicatricula; c, nucleus; d, canal leading to the cavity; e, e, large yolk corpuscles of the coloured part: the corpuscles are not represented of their real proportional sizes, but more with a view to show their general difference. b. Enlarged view of the cicatricula, as seen from above on the surface of the yolk in an impregnated egg: the dark central space or transparent area surrounded by an opaque zone and one or two delicate haloes. c. Cicatricula of an unfecundated laid egg: instead of the central transparent area a number of rather irregular transparent spots are seen. more clear, receives the name of transparent area, in the centre of which the embryo be- gins to be formed; while the outer more opaque part retains its greater thickness, and is con- verted afterwards into the vascular and peri- pheral part of the germinal membrane which spreads over the yolk. Round the margin of the cicatricula the deeper-coloured yolk sub- stance is seen even in a perfectly fresh or newly laid egg to be intersected by one or more tine circles of a lighter colour. These seem to be the same which afterwards, expanding and widening, constitute the haloes which pre- cede and accompany the extension of the ger- minal membrane over the yolk. These circles, are the terminations at the surface of the concentric layers of lighter substance, which, as already mentioned, may be seen surround- ing the central cavity and canal of the yolk (see fig. 49). It seems not improbable that, the difference in the structure of the central and peripheral parts of the cicatricula just stated proceeds from, or is connected with, the peculiar process of Assuring or segmen- tation which follows the disappearance of the germinal vesicle from its central part in the fecundated egg ; but the description of this process belongs to a later section of the present chapter.