339 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. z 2 though I have sometimes found below the surface a faint acidity, such as might have been due to a mere admixture or imbibition of the fluids above. But supposing Dr. Beaumont's conclusion true — that the gastric juice exsudes chiefly from the papillary ridges that intervene be- tween the tubes — what office shall we assign to these latter structures themselves ? The occurrence of these tubes is the rule throughout the Vertebrate classes. And not only are the large cells which form their con- tents equally constant, but Goll and Koelli- ker's* researches have shown that it is in these cells,—or at least in that part of the stomach which contains them,— that the digestive power chiefly, if not essentially, resides. Any indirect or collateral action seems insuffi- cient to explain such a close mutual associa- tion of structure and function :—an association which not only ranges a great part of organ- ized nature, but repeats itself in the organ of the individual. Hence, whatever the office of these cells, it is probably concerned with the elaboration of at least one important con- stituent of the gastric juice. It would seem that this constituent is not the acid. Shall we therefore conjecture it to be the organic principle ? This conjecture, which rests on foundations so slight that the author feels he has no right to propound it, except in the interrogative form in which it presents itself to Ids own mind, is perhaps more compatible with the facts at present known than any other that he can indicate. It is, however, possible, that the observa- tion of Dr. Beaumont just cited was based on some optical illusion : — that, for instance, the lucid specks which he saw on the villi only, had in reality extended up these pro- cesses from dark and depressed openings of the tubes. But even supposing this to have been the case, the superficial acidity of the stomach may be regarded as showing, that the preparation of its secretion is only completed by the cell-growth which lines the lower part of the tubes. At any rate, it seems certain that the gas- tric juice is not composed of the dehiscent nucleated cells of the mucous membrane of the stomach. This fact appears so well esta- blished, that we ought not to shrink from re- ceiving it, however it may impugn what is ordinarily understood as the cell-theory. In respect to the latter doctrine, the author can only mention another view, which, though novel and plausible, he has long felt obliged to give up. After verifying the obscure cytoblasts which fill the large oval gastric cells, and the more distinct ones which line the axis of the stomach tubef, as well as the gradual trans- * Op. cit. Bd. ii. p. 146. f It is interesting to notice the close structural analogy offered by these small axial cells to (hose which line the buccal and duodenal glands. The more so that the latter appear to secrete a fluid which possesses the capacity of effecting a rapid and impos- ition of these into the ordinary columnar epithelia covering the ridges,—it occurred to him that this structure, together with Bernard's and Beaumont's observations, were all sus- ceptible of a single explanation. According to such a view, it might be supposed that the mother-cell gradually enlarged, ruptured, and discharged its contained cytoblasts. These arranged themselves in the axis of the tube ; and urged by a gradual pressure, or by the growth of new cytoblasts below them, passed up the follicle to where the mother-cells ceased. There they became attached to the wall of the tube itself and acquired a colum- nar form by a gradual distention of their interior; — a distention, which increased as they approached the summit of the ridge, where they were finally extruded, or burst. Thus the cell which was constructed below, was filled above :—a subdivision of the secre- tory process, which might be supposed to de- pend upon the solvent powers of the secre- tion being injurious, either to the production of blastema, or to the multiplication of cells. Such a view seemed more or less to account for the structure of the mother-cell; for the gradual transition of the cytoblast into a columnar cell; for the superficial acidity, and for the vascular arrangements, of the mucous membrane. It also appeared to be con- finned by the tendency of the columnar epithelia to cohere strongly with each other, and adhere slightly to the subjacent basement membrane. But the uniform anatomy of the ridges, and the completely structureless cha- racter of the gastric juice, were insurmountable objections, which ultimately led to the com- plete abandonment of this theory. And as regards the whole theory of secre- tion by cells, surely it is high time to modify it so that it might involve, not a less immediate action, but a somewhat less extravagant expen- diture, of these minute organs. For the impro- bability which we have shown to be implied in the application of this theory to the stomach, holds good in a far higher, not to say a very different sense, of many other secreting structures. Indeed in some of these, it is obvious, that their situation wotdd involve an enormous waste of life and matter, sup- posing the bulk of their organic products to be really enclosed in deciduous or dehiscent cells. Amongst such we may specify the kidney, the most important duties of which are supposed to be executed by secretion into a cell-growth, from a venous surface — a cell-growth of which we may doubt whe- ther it even undergoes a rapid solution, while we can definitely predicate that it is not discharged entire, in any quantity at all com- mensurate with the large amount of solid constituents which is removed from the bodv in the urine. Small intestine.— The next portion of the alimentary canal is that which is included between the pyloric and ilio-csecal valves, and is named, from its diameter, the small intestine, tant metamorphosis in another class of organic sub- stances. (See p. 3U2.)