590 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. It becomes a question whether this law, which has been established by ample tes- timony, admits of the exception that the ovum may be impregnated before quitting the follicle, and therefore whilst still contained within the ovary. The records of various cases, in which the fetus is apparently contained within the ovary, raise this question. For if the fetus is found strictly contained within structures properly ovarian, then the ovum must have been impregnated within the ovary, and the seminal fluid must have entered the Graafian follicle*, for it cannot be supposed possible that the ovum, having quitted the follicle unimpregnated, should again enter it after being impregnated. The cases, however, which have been re- corded as examples of ovarian gestation do not suffice to demonstrate that the sac con- taining the embryo or foetus and its mem- branes is strictly within the ovary, and is com- posed of structures strictly ovarian ; and until such demonstration has been given, ovarian gestation, in the most liberal view that can be accorded to it, cannot be held to have any other signification than that of the develop- ment of the embryo or fetus in a sac con- nected with or occupying the usual seat of the ovary, but not yet proved to be developed within the proper structures of that gland. Origin of Ovarian Cysts in general, — It has been often asserted, and as frequently doubted or denied, that these cysts derive their origin from an unnatural enlargement or dilatation of Graafian follicles. Such a contrariety of views is observable equally with general pathologists, as with those who have studied the special histology of this subject. Of the latter both Rokitansky and Wedl may be considered as still holding uncertain opinions ; for Rokitansky, who regards it as probable that the simple cysts are in many cases developed from the follicles, doubts that such is their origin in those instances in which their number far exceeds the usual number of Graafian vesicles, holding them to be new formations ; and Wedl says that of the cysts in the parenchyma of the ovary no direct proof has ever been given that they originate in the Graafian follicles; and with respect to those which contain hair and teeth, he re- gards their origin in this way as "extremely doubtful." It is obvious that a question of this kind cannot be definitively settled except by mi- nute examination of the morbid cyst in all the early stages of its growth; an exami- nation for which opportunities cannot very frequently arise. The choice lies between the classing of such cysts with those, on the one hand, which originate in the dilatation of * There is nothing in this supposition incompa- tible with the known facts relative to the spon- taneous opening of the follicle, and the power of penetration of the spermatozoa occasionally as far as the distal extremity of the oviduct, or even to the surface of the ovary. natural sacculi and ducts, or with such as have their commencement in the enlarging of areolar spaces, or in the growth of primary cells or nuclei into cysts. In the case of the ovary, it happens that the settlement of this question is more diffi- cult than in that of most other organs ; for with regard to the formation of cysts upon the latter plans, whether the views of Wedl be adopted, that they consist in an excessive augmentation of volume of the areolae of the areolar tissue, or those of Rokitansky, that a cyst proceeds from an elementary granule which grows, by intus-susception,into a nucleus, and this into a structureless vesicle, in both views such cysts come to be com- posed ultimately of a cell-wall compounded of fibrous tissue and lined by epithelium — a structure which is, in fact, identical in com- position with the Graafian vesicle itself. With regard to any doubts as to the origin of cysts in Graafian follicles, which may be founded upon their number exceeding the average number of hpalthy follicles in an ovary, it need only be observed that the latter have been shown by the microscope to be innumerable ; and with respect to secon- dary cysts, springing from the walls of pri- mary ones, numerous observations prove that the impulse to cystic formation once given in an organ, even by the primitive enlargement of normal cavities, a marked tendency to the antogenous formation of cysts follows.* But even if no other explanation coidd be offered, the discovery of Barry, that the walls of a Graafian follicle in a natural state often con- tain numerous follicles of a second order, would sufficiently demonstrate the capacity of these for secondary cell-growth. In giving the preference to that view which regards the cystic diseases of the ovary as originating in a dilatation of the Graafian vesicles, I have been guided chiefly by the following considerations. In those cases where I have been able to discover cysts in the ovar\' in a stage of early formation, these have not been of less size than the average dimensions of the developed Graafian follicle. They occur intermixed with healthy fol- licles, and exhibit with them the same histo- logical formation ; their tissues being altered sometimes only in such slight degrees as still to admit of their common origin with the Graafian follicle being shown. There is sometimes exhibited in the same ovary, or in the ovaries of both sides together, a sufficient number of grades of enlargement to constitute a series of cysts, evidently com- posed of similar parts and tissues in various stages of growth. Beginning with the smaller cysts, still con- tained in part or entirely within the ovary, there may be traced cysts of precisely similar formation and structure in every gradation of size up to those examples in which the ovary itself comes to be a mere appendage of the * Lebert, loc. cit. p. 244.