62 OVUM. process, and in eggs that have been long kept, the space has extended over the whole width of the egg, and the quantity of gas contained in this space is sufficient to cause the eggs to float in water. The extent of the air-space may be ascertained in some degree by the greater or less feeling of coldness of the shell of the egg near the obtuse end, when it is applied to the skin of a delicate part, such as the eyelid, in consequence of the heat being less rapidly carried oft' by that part of the shell within which the air-space has been formed, than at others with which the albumen is in contact. Dr. Paris found this air, amounting to about half a cubic inch, to be nearly pure atmo- spheric air, with a small quantity of carbonic acid towards the end of the period of incuba- tion. MM. Baudrimont and St. Ange find it to contain in general more oxygen than atmospheric air, and no carbonic acid; whence they conclude that the shell has a peculiar power of passing outwards the carbonic acid formed during incubation and taking in oxygen.* The formation of the air-space is manifestly a compensation for the loss of sub- stance in whatever way occasioned, that may take place from the egg. We shall have oc- casion afterwards to consider in how far it may be important in connection with the phenomena of incubation. The specific gravity of the whole egg, when newly laid, and before evaporation has taken place, is generally as high as 1090, being raised considerably above the common spe- cific gravity of the fluids and soft parts of animals by the superior density of the shell; but as the air space increases, the whole spe- cific gravity will be lowered. The specific gravity of the albumen and yolk differ in a considerable degree; that of the yolk, though containing the largest amount of solid matter, being lowest in con- sequence of the large quantity of oily matter belonging to it ; and thus when the albumen becomes more fluid during incubation, the yolk naturally rises towards its upper part, or displaces some of the albumen which lay above it in the newly laid egg. It is also an interesting circumstance, that the specific gravity of the lower and upper parts of the yolk differs perceptibly ; that of the upper part being reduced by the greater quantity of oily matter contained in the cells situated in the vicinity of the cicatricula. The up- turning of the side of the yolk bearing the cicatricula, which is familiarly known, has long excited attention ; and several explana- tions have been suggested of its cause; and, among others, the chalazae have been supposed to balance the yolk in such a manner as to secure this position. But Von Baer showed that this view was erroneous, and that the less specific gravity of the upper part, or of that portion of the yolk in which the cicatri- cula is placed, is the true cause of the phe- * Recherehes Anat. et Physiol, sur l'CEuf des Vertebre's, Mem. Couronn.; published in Me'm.des Savans Etrangers de l'Acad. Fran. 1850. nomenon. The measurements of the specifi gravity of different parts of the egg by Messrs Fig. ii. Position, form, and attachment of the chalazaa, yolk, and cicatricula, as shown by sections of fowls' eggs boiled in di fferent positions. A. Section of an egg, boiled on its side: b, with the narrow end up: c, with the wide end up These figures show the tendency of the lighter part of the yolk, on the surface of which the cicatricula, c, is situated, to be buoyed up and to expand in the white, at the same time that the movements of the yolk are to a certain extent limited by the attach- ment of the chalaza?; a, air-space.