627 UTERUS — (Normal Anatomy). the substance of the organ. No just concep- observed to diverge slightly, so as to leave a tion, however, of the real form or capacity of spindle-shaped canal traversing the whole this interspace can be obtained by examining it with the aid of sections made in one direc- tion only. In-order to obtain a correct notion of the form and extent of this cavity, it is desirable first to make a longitudinal section through the centre of the entire organ parallel with its lateral borders. The cavity or interspace is then indicated by a line running from below upwards, and terminating within half an inch of the fundus (fig. 426.). The upper half of this line indicates the length of the uterine neck (fig. 431. cc). A second view is obtained by cutting com- pletely through the uterus in the direction of its transverse diameter, and parallel with its extremities. If the entire organ be cut up into many such segments (fig. ±27—430.), itis then seen, from the length of the central line, that the cavity varies in breadth, its widest part being in the segment which includes the ex- tremities of the Fallopian tubes ; whilst from this point downwards the line diminishes in length, until at the narrowest portion of the cavity of the uterus; the lower half, that of uterus, or that representing the commence the cervix. The latter alone exhibits a true cavity; for here the parietes of the cervix are Fie. 427. Fig. 428. Fig. 429. Fie. 430. Series of horizontal sections of the uterus. Fig. 427., just above the entrance of the Fallopian tubes. Fig. 428., in the centre of the cavity. Fig. 429., close to the internal os uteri. Fig. 430., the centre of the cervical canal. The upper or more convex border marks the posterior surface in each section. (Ad Nat.) ment of the cervix, it measures only 1^'' 3"' in diameter. But the most complete view of the interior of the uterus is obtained by a section carried through the centre of t le organ, dividing it midway between its anterior and posterior walls. The entire cavity which is thus ex- hibited at one view is seen to be of a trian- gular form ; its boundaries being formed superiorly by the fundus, and on either side by the two lateral borders, whilst in each angle is observed an aperture. The two su- perior openings are the lower orifices of the Fallopian tubes. The inferior opening lead- ing to the cervical canal constitutes the os uteri internum (fig. 431. i). Fig. 431. Vertical section of nulliparous uterus parallel with its anterior and posterior ivalls. uc, uterine cavity; cc, cervical cavity or canal; i, internal os uteri; e, external os uteri ; /;/,Fallopiau tubes; v n, vagina. (Ad Nat.) Since the cavity in the interior of the uterine body has a triangular form, whilst externally the shape of the organ is more or less pyriform, it is evident that the parietes of this " hollow muscle" cannot have every- where an equal thickness, for otherwise the form of the cavity would correspond with