OVUM. [81] Ovum of Mammalia and of the Human Species. — There is a remarkable uniformity in the size, structure, and relations of the ovarian ovum in the whole class of Mammalia, with the exception of the families of Marsu- piata and Monotremata ; in the last of which especially there is an approach to the oviparous type. We shall first consider the more com- mon form of the mammiferous ovum. Of this the most marked characteristics are, as has already been stated, the very small size in proportion to the ovarian follicle, the finely granular yolk-substance, and the dense, clear, and firm external covering or zona pellucida. The Graafian follicles, or ovarian vesicles, in which the ova are situated, attain, when mature, a size of from ^ to \ or even \ an inch, varying in size in some measure with, but not in exact proportion to, the stature of the animals. In the human ovary these fol- licles are firm spheroidal sacs, which attain when mature an average size of about i of an inch. In the ovaries of women, during the child-bearing period, a number of smaller folli- cles lie throughout the greater part of the substance of the ovary ; the more developed follicles being usually placed towards the free surface, but at some little distance from it. As they enlarge and approach maturity, the ova- rian substance appears to give way to them, or to become gradually thinner between the follicles and the outer surface of the ovary, so as at last to leave almost nothing but the covering membranes of the ovary at the most projecting part. Even when of their full size, however, the Graafian follicles of the human subject and of most animals do not project much beyond the general surface of the ovary; Fig. 54*. Mammiferous Ovum. A. (From Coste.) Human ovary enlarged four diameters, partially dissected at ooo, to show the Graafian follicles in the ovarian stroma : one of these, more advanced, has had its double tunic ov cut into and reflected ; the granular membrane m g has also been partially opened, showing the thickened portion or granular disc do, in which the ovum is imbedded near the most projecting part. At o »', another Graafian follicle has been burst, and the ovum in its granular disc is seen expelled from it. ^ b. Transverse section of the human ovary, to show the general arrangement of the developed Graafian follicles towards the surface; twice the natural size. c. Diagrammatic representation on an enlarged scale, in section, of two Graafian follicles, in dif- ferent stages of advancement in the ovary of a mammifer. p, peritoneal covering of the ovary ; s t, ovarian stroma; o v, the two layers of the ovisac ; m g, membrana granulosa, near which is the discus granulosus, with the ovum imbedded. Supp,