597 FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Normal Anatomy). pouches (fig. 401. c c), are converted into the 18—20tubules of'the parovarium (figA03. c), and these secerning tubes become organi- cally connected with the hilum of the ovary, /. They are the homotypes of the male coni vasculosi, and vasa efferentia, but which con- stitute here vasa adferentia. The superior blind pouches and the bulb of the excretory duct disappear, or contri- bute to form the hydatids at the outer border of the parovarium (fig. 403. fib), which are so commonly mistaken for morbid struc- tures. The inferior blind pouches (fig. 401. d) remain and represent the vasa aberrantia of Haller (fig. 402. d), in the male. Several of them become elongated and intermingled with the vessels of the spermatic plexus (fig. 403. d). The excretory duct of the Wolffian body (fig. 401. e) in the female, undergoes a retro- gression in its whole length, and the lower end disappears entirely. (Fig. 403. e). The duct of Miiller (fig. 401, //) is con- verted into the Fallopian tube [fig. 403. h), and its bulb ( fig. 401. i) becomes the terminal hydatid of the same (fig. 403. i). This latter structure, of which a very excellent example, as occurring on both sides, is given in fig. 368. e e, is very constantly present in the adult. Like the so-called hydatid (fig. 403./and 408. g) at the outer border of the parovarium, it is frequently mistaken for a morbid product, and is often so designated in descriptions of these parts ; an error which the improper title of hydatid tends to propagate. The interruption or deficiency of the Fal- lopian tube in the female is a malformation, which represents a normal condition in the male. The parovarium exhibits parallel stages of development and retrogression with its corre- sponding ovary at different periods of life. Abnormal Anatomy of the Parovarium. — So little attention has been given to this structure in its natural condition that accu- rate information regarding its morbid states can hardly be looked for. The so-called hydatids, which are found at the outer bor- der of the parovarium in most adult speci- mens, and which are constructed out of the superior blind pouches and bulb of the ex- cretory duct of the Wolffian body, have been already just noticed as normal structures. These are found pretty constantly in younger subjects, while the hydatids of later forma- tion in the alae vespertilionum are formed of the remains of the canals of the retrograde parovarium. Within the walls of these canals is collected occasionally a considerable amount of fluid, and it is probable that this is the origin of those larger accumulations to which the term dropsy of the broad ligament has been applied. FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT. Normal Anatomy. Tubes uteri vel Fallopiance ; ovidueti; vasa spermatica vel ejaculantia, Lat. ; Aluttertrom- peten, Germ.; Trompes utcrines, Trompes de Fallope, Fr. The Fallopian tube (fig. 368. c c, and 404. a b c) is the excretory duct of the ovary, as its homotype, the vas deferens, is the excretory conduit of the testis. And while in an anatomical point of view the tube is an appendage of the uterus, in a physio- logical sense it must be regarded as the proper appurtenance of the ovary. But the Fallopian tube differs from the vas deferens, as well as from every other excretory duct in the animal, economy, in this important particular, that it is entirely detached from its proper gland, between which and the uterus it serves to establish only a temporary communication. This separation of the oviduct from the ovary is associated with a higher type of general structure than that which accompanies the blending of these parts. It is first ob- served in the cartilaginous fishes, and prevails in all classes of the animal kingdom above them ; while in the osseous fishes and in the invertebrata possessing distinct ovaries, the oviducts are directly continuous with those bodies. The Fallopian tube or oviduct is developed equally on both sides of the body in all vertebrate animals, except in the class Aves, where the right tube becomes atrophied at an early period, while the left alone is de- veloped. In the human subject each ovary is pro- vided with its proper oviduct, which serves to convey the ova from either side to the central organ, the uterus. But the detached position of the oviduct permits so great a range of motion in its free extremity, that, not only can this be applied to every part of the surface of the corresponding ovary, but the tube of one side may occasionally serve as a conduit to the opposite gland, and re- ceive its product. The action of the tube, however, is then imperfect; and, when im- pregnation obtains, an abnormal form of ges- tation usually results. Form and dimensions. — Each oviduct has the form of a conical tube, the base of which is free and directed towards the ovary, while its apex is attached to the corresponding superior angle of the uterus, out of which it appears to arise. The form of the tube was compared by Fallopius to that of a horn or trumpet, w hich instrument, when straightened or only slightly curved, it sufficiently resembles. Issuing from the upper angle of the uterus, at the point of junction of the superior and lateral borders, the oviduct commences round and narrow (fig- 404. e), and proceeds outwardly gradually and regularly widening up to its dis- tal extremity, where it contracts somewhat q u 3