692 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. Fig. 477. Section of a polypus formed of the muscular tissue of the uterus. (After Wedl.) The fibres, arranged in bundles, run in different directions. At a a, they have been divided trans- versely, and in other parts obliquely. Compare with_/z0, 436. The malignant polypi, and those which are formed of hypertrophied mucous structure, belong to another category, and will be de- scribed hereafter. 4. Pathological conditions of the mucous coat. — a. First under this head ma}' be noticed simple hypertrophy of the uterine mucous membrane, followed often by a partial shed- ding of that structure in the form of the so- called Dysmenorrhoeal membrane.—The term men- strual decidua would probably form a more appropriate title for these structures, which consist of a greater or less thickness of the mucous membrane lining the uterus, differing in no respect from that membrane in its ordi- nary condition *, except in the one particular, that it has undergone a certain degree of hypertrophy. (7^.443.) The hypertrophies which the mucous membrane of the uterus undergoes in various circumstances form a most interesting subject for study, but all of them are not pathological. The most familiar example of normal hypertrophy of the uterine mucous membrane is that which occurs in ordinary pregnancy. Here, no sooner does the uterus begin to enlarge, than the mucous lining also expands, and its tissues become opened up by an in- creased flow of blood, and a consequent rapid development of the simple elements composing this structure. This hypertrophy occurs in every pregnancy where the ovum enters the uterus. But it also happens very generally in those cases where the ovum never enters the uterus at all, but is developed externally to that cavity (extra-uterine gesta tion). Here a most perfect decidua is usually found lining the uterus. The exceptions are few in which the uterine mucous membrane, under these circumstances, does not exhibit any increase of thickness, but retains or nearly so, its ordinary characters * See on the structure of the uterine mucous membrane, p. 635. of this article. But a state of pregnancy is not necessary to produce evolution of the uterine lining, for this may occur when the body of the uterus is enlarged from other causes. Thus, in an example in my possession of uterine fibroid, in which the body of the uterus has undergone the hypertrophy already described (p. 491.), as common in that state, the hypertrophy has extended to the mucous membrane, so that the uterine cavity, which had also been occupied by one of these tumours, exhibits a delicate decidual lining. The decidual membranes occasionally cast off from the uterus under circumstances of dysmenorrhea, consist of fragments, or, more rarely, of entire membranes forming casts of the uterine cavity. The structure of all these is nearly similar, and they differ chiefly in the greater or less thickness of membrane de- tached. All present upon their inner surface the peculiar cribriform markings already de- scribed as constituting the orifices of the uterine glands, while their outer surfaces are rough and shaggy, like the outer surface of aborted ova, for this surface has been de- tached or torn off from the uterus. Fig. 443. represents a portion of such a membrane, as seen from its inner or cribriform surface. The microscopic characters of these membranes are precisely those of ordinary decidua. b. Hypertrophy of the follicular structures of the uterine mucous membrane. Follicular poli/pi. Mucous polypi. Cysts. — The patho- logical formations which take their origin in the mucous membrane lining the uterus, con- sist chiefly in hypertrophic growths of that membrane, and of its follicular structures. They present usually two varieties, according as the follicular or the ordinary mucous tissue abounds in their composition. Many of these growths acquire a peduncle, and then consti- tute the mucous or follicular polypi. The follicular structure is most apparent in those growths which spring from the body, and especially from the fundus uteri near the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. These vary in size from a pea to a small plum. They have usually a rounded or oval form, and become partially flattened by the external pressure of the uterine walls. A short and narrow pe- duncle connects them with the spot from which they arise. Externally they are smooth and covered by a layer of epithelium, beneath which is a thin extension of the uterine mu- cous membrane. This is often sufficiently transparent to render visible numerous opa- line spots, indicating the seat of groups of uterine follicles distended and elongated, and containing a semitransparent gelatinous fluid. Between these elongated follicles there is a loose fibrous tissue connecting them together, and giving substance to the mass. These tumours possess little resistance, and are usu- ally soft and elastic. The more solid mucous tumours very ge- nerally acquire a stem, and early take the form of polypi. These mostly arise from be- tween the folds of the lining membrane of the cervix, and are evidently mere hypertrophies