STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 335 efficacy of such infusions, and especially that of the duodenal membrane, is at least partially explained by the way in which the gastric juice is necessarily diffused, with the food, over the surface of the intestinal canal. The effect of the neutral salts on artificial digestion has scarcely been investigated with alf the attention it merits. But it appears not improbable that many of these inor- ganic substances assist solution, when present in small quantities, but oppose it when added in excess. This is especially the case with chloride of sodium, the ordinary condiment of mankind and of many animals. The effect of this salt in facilitating the digestion of albu- men, fibrine, and casein, has been verified by Lehmann for the proportion of 1a per cent. The effect of alcohol is also regulated by its amount and concentration. Diluted, it seems to have no chemical action whatever. In larger quantities, as before remarked, it precipitates pepsine. And in still greater excess, it permanently destroys all its diges- tive energy. The way in which the process of gastric solution, whatever be its nature, is assisted by the minute division of the substances sub- mitted to it, as well as by the movements of the stomach, is too obvious to require any special mention. It only remains to add that, according to Purkinje and Pappenheim, an in- crease in the amount of the atmospheric pres- sure furthers the artificial solution of albumi- nous substances. These observers therefore regard natural digestion as somewhat aided by the pressure of the gastric and abdominal parietes. The quantitative relations between this or- ganic principle and the proteinous substances which it dissolves, form a very important sub- ject for inquiry. An exact determination of the quantity of pepsine which these substances require for their solution, would greatly assist us in solving many problems with re- spect to the chemistry of digestion. Or con- versely, a knowledge of the exact numerical details of nutrition, and of the daily gastric secretion, would enable us to calculate the proportionate quantity of pepsine periodically required and used. But it is obvious that such calculations can only confirm direct ob- servations; that they multiply all the known errors of their elements, and neglect their un- known ones. And the estimates derived from actual experiment are very conflicting: — if, indeed, they can be considered really compar- able. Thus that precipitation of casein, which is effected by the watery extract of stomach, is producible, according to Mit- scherlich*, by a quantity of pepsine amount- ing to ^(joTrnth of the milk made use of: while Schwann states ^oVijtl1 to be required. Wasmann found that dilution of the pepsine to gouWth did not destroy its power of dis- solving coagulated albumen. Frerichs-]- and * Bericht, &c. der Akademie der Wissensdiaften zu Berlin, 1842, p. 147. et scq. f Op. cit. p. 794. Schwann give estimates, which (allowing for the impurity of the extract of stomach) may probably be regarded as an assertion,—that one part of pepsine will dissolve 500 of meat, or moist and finely divided albumen. With these statements may be contrasted those made by Beaumont, filondlot, Lehmann, and Schmidt. In describing his observations con- ducted with gastric juice, Beaumont * implies that this secretion cannot take up more than 50 per cent, of roast meat. From what he says, hov/ever, as well as from some observa- tions by Blondlotj-, it seems very doubtful whether even this can be regarded as a per- fect solution. And Lehmann would fix its sol- vent properties at about 25 per cent, for moist albumen. While the average and maximum power of Bidder and Schmidt's pure gastric juice is stated by them at what would be about 10 and 20 per cent, respectively for the same substance. Reducing gastric juice to pep- sine in accordance with their analysis, it would seem that one part of the organic prin- ciple cannot dissolve more than 12 of albumen. And even Beaumont's highest estimate would but raise these 12 parts of albumen to .30 of the more digestible meat:—a quantity which is still small enough to form a striking con- trast with the larger proportion deducible from the statements of Frerichs. But it is scarcely necessary to observe, that, the state of the substances used, the dilution of the fluid, and the amount of acid, will always ex- ercise a great influence on the results ; and may at least partially account for these great discrepancies. As already implied, the gastric juice is ca- pable of dissolving, not only albumen, but the protein-compounds generally, including in this term the various substances known by the names of fibrin, casein, globulin, vitellin, hcematin, &c. To these we may add gelatin, ehondrin, and gluten. In the case of all these, however, theirphysical condition seems greatly to regulate the rate of the process: density and bulk rendering it very slow ; while, conversely, it is accelerated by minute division. Nor is it impossible that the quantities of the sol- vent required vary with the nature and aggre- gation of the particular substance. But in any case the ultimate effect is the same—the production of a complete solution. The application of the term "chyme," by the older authors, to the food which had undergone stomach-digestion, sufficiently indicates that the mass possesses a comparatively uniform physical appearance. And even when further observation pointed out, that the chyme was liable to considerable variations in colour and consistence, the above opinions as to its uni- formity required but a partial modification. For physiologists then began to be aware, that the gastric change was not so much a stage in the digestion of the whole of the food, as the solution of a certain class of its * Op. cit. p. 133. t Op. cit. p. 204.