I 150 PEL bably depend upon great obliquity of the pelvis. The measurements of the Tahitian male pelvis, given in the table, corresponds, in the proximity of the ischial spines and narrow- ness of the sacrum, with the Negro and the Bushman, though its transverse diameters, unlike the Negro, are larger than the antero- posterior. In this respect, the Bushman more nearly approaches the Negro. The great antero-posterior diameter of the cavity shows a great vertical curvature of the sacrum. In the sacro-vertebral and peri- vertebral angles, the Bushman and Tahitian are nearly alike. The pelvis of the female Australian, also in the Hunterian Museum, presents a very re- markable shallowness of the true pelvis. Otherwise, it is light and roomy, with well- expanded and very short ilia. The shape of the superior opening is of a perfect oval, with the transverse diameter half an inch larger than the antero-posterior. Though a much larger pelvis than that of the Bushman, its total depth is nearly as limited, and very much more so than in European female pelves of equal horizontal diameters. In these specimens of races, considered by some to be more nearly related to the apes than the European, an examination of the adjoining table will show a very great pelvic difference between them and the highest apes, in the less proportionate preponderance of the antero-posterior over the transverse dia- meters, the shortness and expansion of the ilia, the less depth of the true pelvis both in front, sides, and behind, and especially in the more marked sacro-vertebral angle. M. Vrolik describes the pelvis of the Javanese as very light in structure, of small size, and of a characteristic circular form at the superior opening, the bones being like those of a very young person, and the muscles correspondingly feeble. The small projec- tion of the sacral promontory was also re- markable, as well as the great inward projec- tion of the ischial spines, more marked, he says, than in the pelves of any other nation, and quite characteristic. By the comparative measurement of many human pelves of different races, Professor Weber reduced them to four principal forms, distinguished by the general shape of the pelvic openings. 1st. The oval form.—The superior opening of an egg-shaped figure, narrow in front, broadest near the sacro-iliac symphysis, and again narrowing to the sacral promontory. The antero-posterior diameter smaller than the transverse. The ilia moderately distant, and obliquely placed ; and the convergence of the walls of the true pelvis downward, also moderate. The sacrum moderate in breadth, length, and vertical curvature. The ischial tuberosities placed rather backward, and the spines widely distant. The sub- pubic angle neither very acute in the male, nor the arch very prominent in the female. Of this type, he makes two varieties, — viz. the oval or male-oval, and the round-oval or female-oval; the male variety of form being sometimes found in the female. Of this form he gives three specimens :—one of an Euro- pean male; one, very large, of a Botocundo male; and one of the round or cross-oval form, in an European female pelvis, broad and shallow, with the transverse diameter 5 in., and the conjugate 3 in. 10 lines. The pelvis of the Australian female, given in the table, belongs to the round-oval form, and that of the male Tahitian to the male-oval form. 2nd, The round form, distinguished by the round or cross-formed superior opening, by the vertical sides, less anterior direction of pubes, and less projection of sacral pro- montory, making the conjugate of nearly the same extent as the transverse diameter. Of this form he gives five specimens, all females : — one European, two Negresses, one Hot- tentot, and one Javanese. 3rd. The square or four-sided form, dis- tinguished by the great breadth of sacrum and horizontal flattening of pubes. The transverse diameter greater than the conju- gate, but the superior opening forming nearly a square. Of this form are six specimens :— one of an European female ; two of Javanese male, and one of a female of the same race, and two Mestizos. 4th. The cuneiform, or oblong form.— Su- perior opening laterally compressed and ob- long ; sacrum very narrow; pubis with great anterior direction, so as to unite at an acute angle; with the conjugate greater than the transverse diameter. In the female, this form makes some approach to the oval shape. Of this form he gives eight specimens : — one of an European female, which has this shape very well marked, the conjugate diameter being 4> in. 9 lines ; one of a female Boto- cundo ; one of a Negress ; one of a Negro ; one of a Kaffir; and three others from Von Soemmerring's collection. The pelves of the Bushman and Negro, given in the table, belong to this form. M. Weber's conclusions drawn from these specimens are, that though the oval shape is most common in Europeans, the round shape in the American aborigines, the square shape in the Asiatic or Mongolian races, and the oblong in the Negro races; yet that none of the characters laid down by Vrolik are con- stant, nor belong exclusively to any particular race, but that deviations from the usual form in any race present characteristics which gene- rally belong to other varieties of the human species. The coincidence between the prevailing form of the skull and that of the pelvic brim in these classes of the human race is worthy of especial remark, and influences ma- terially, as before mentioned, the adaptation of the foetal skull to the pelvic passage during labour. After the form of the skull, that of the pelvis is perhaps the most characteristic of race of any in the body, because of its great influence upon the shape of the trunk ; and yet, from Weber's researches, it would appear