STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 404 co-existence of a diverticulum with the nor- mal pouch of this part. The diverticula of the intestinal canal seem to be of two kinds, which differ, not only in the frequency of their occurrence, but also in their situation, form, structure, and (in all probability) in their nature or import. The least common variety form pouches of variable length, width, and shape ; which may spring from almost any part of the canal, but are usually connected with the small intes- tine. Their structure varies ; but, as con- trasted with the bowel itself, they usually exhibit more or less deficiency of the mus- cular coat.* The true diverticulum differs materially from these. It usually forms a short tube of in- testine, which leaves the ileum at from \\ to 2 feet above its termination ; by what is either a right angle, or is such as gives it an incli- nation towards the lower part of the bowel. Its width generally approaches that of the ileum, with which its cavity is continuous, by an aperture that is sometimes valvular. It possesses the ordinary muscular and mu- cous coats. The former exhibits its usual transverse and longitudinal layers. The latter also presents its ordinary structure: being occupied by villi, tubes, and follicles ; and sometimes, by valvulae conniventes of remark- able distinctness for this region of the bowel. Its length is generally about three or four inches. Its shape is more or less cylindrical, oftener contracting than expanding towards its termination. It commonly sustains vessels, and is attached by a kind of mesentery. Oc- casionally it exhibits, in addition to these vessels, a cellular cord that evidently contains the degenerated relics of some large artery. And finally, it sometimes extends upwards towards the umbilicus ; and, in rare instances, opens here. From all these circumstances there can be little doubt of its true import being that assigned to it by Meckel ; namely, that itis a highly developed and persistent por- tion of the duct of the umbilical vesicle. (3.) The third or remaining group of mal- formations includes most of the congenital displacements of the digestive canal. These, as already mentioned, may be ascribed to two very different causes. The transposition or displacement of the tube within the abdomen, whether total or partial, is a fact for which the history of its development affords no ex- planation or probable secondary cause.f While the situation of any part of the canal * Hence some anatomists regard these pouches as constituting a kind of hernia of the mucous membrane. But unless this view imply that they are, at least in part, of mechanical origin, it can only amount to a circuitous statement {and often an exaggerated one) of the above fact. It is however probable, that some of these diverticula really are the results of accident. t In rare instances, the stomach or colon take a vertical position, which, to some extent, suggest an arrest of their development. But little stress can be laid upon such a conjecture, unless it be con- firmed by other appearances of the same kind in these or neighbouring parts. externally to the cavity of the belly, is, in most instances, the mere result of a defi- ciency of the abdominal parietes. The partial displacement of the canal gene- rally affects the transverse colon, or some other segment of the large intestine; and, more rarely, the stomach. Its total transpo- sition inverts the position of all the abdominal viscera with respect to the median line: so that, for example, the pylorus, the ccecum, and the ascending colon occupy the left side of the belly ; while the cardia, the descending colon, and its sigmoid flexure, are found on the right, or opposite side. The congenital inguinal hernias form the most familiar illustration of the second (or extra-abdominal) class of displacements. And when a similar arrest of development involves the anterior wall of the belly generally, the abnormal situation of the canal may assume any grade, from that of a limited umbilical hernia, to an external situation of almost all the intestinal canal. While the deficiency of the diaphragm may allow a variable extent of the canal to occupy the cavity of the thorax. From obvious reasons, it is the commence- ment of the small intestine, which usually experiences this displacement. The stomach, above the hernia, is sometimes dilated. Morbid Conditions. —Size. — Alterations in the size of the alimentary canal, though they chiefly affect its calibre, are generally asso- ciated with changes in its walls. Constriction.— Narrowing or diminution of calibre is sometimes general, but is more fre- quently limited to a part of the tube. Its causes are various. 1. It often results from a process of con- traction, which specially engages the muscular coat. Such contraction, generally passive, is well exemplified in the narrow empty tube, seen where the canal has for some time re- ceived no contents. Thus in persons who have died of starvation, the intestines are sometimes reduced to a tube, with pale thick walls, and a narrow calibre, like a tobacco- pipe. While a more local change of the same kind is often found in the empty seg- ment of the intestine immediately below an obstruction, or an artificial anus. During its rigor mortis, the dead intestine often presents similar appearances. These may, however, be distinguished by their originating in a more active contraction, by their exhibiting a more marked, but less permanent character, and by their involving a less extent of bowel. And lastly, various irritants and astringents have been found to excite the muscular coat to contractions, which can more or less imitate the diminution of calibre producible by the preceding causes. 2. Narrowing may also result from the con- traction of other intestinal tissues, besides the muscular coat. The constriction produced by the immediate or local action of the corro- sive poisons on the alimentary canal, may be partially ascribed to their direct chemical in- fluence on the various textures with which they come into contact. Such poisons, for