OVUM. [102] tents of the vesicle, the more immediately germinal part of the egg is formed from the mixture of the two. However this may be, it seems not improbable, from the observations now referred to, that the spermatozoa are conveyed directly to the germinal part of the egg by the funnel of the micropyle. I shall afterwards have to state the more numerous instances in which, following its first discovery by J. Midler in the Holo- thuria, a micropyle has been detected in the ova of Invertebrate animals; and I may at- tempt to show the great importance of this aperture in connection with fecundation in ova with thick external coverings to which the spermatic substance does not gain access till the later periods of their formation. The ac- companying figures of the micropyle in the Stickleback will give a sufficiently clear view of this remarkable structure. At present it may be permitted to remark that, if we consider the size of this aperture, and the ease with which it may be found in the ova of fishes by an observer whose at- tention has been called to its existence, to- gether with the fact of its having been so long overlooked previously, there is much ground for caution as to negative statements as to the existence of a similar aperture in the ova of other animals. I have already made al- lusion to this subject in the previous sections, in which I have stated that Dr. Ransom has expressed to me his firm conviction, founded on observations, that the micropyle exists also in the ova of Batrachia. At the same time it is quite probable that such an aperture may only exist or be required for the admission of the spermatozoa when fecundation is of late oc- currence, and when the covering membrane of the ovum is so dense as to resist the pene- tration of the spermatozoa through its solid substance. It is right also to mention that the exist- ence of this aperture, or rather the funnel lead- ing to it, did not entirely escape the observa- tion of preceding physiologists. The accurate Von Baer, in his work on the development of Fishes*, has described in the Bream (Cy- prinus blicca) a funnel-shaped depression of the external membrane, which reached nearly to the surface of the germ ; and he ob- served that this funnel was effaced as soon as the imbibition of water took place. He considered this aperture as most probably owing to the escape of the germinal vesicle from the surface of the yolk and through the coverings of the ovum, in the same manner as he had described in the frogf, and did not therefore conceive it to serve any immediate purpose in connection with the introduction of the spermatozoa. Dr. Ransom has ob- served that the eflTacement of the funnel which he had seen in the Stickleback is not inva- riably the consequence of fecundation in the Fish's ovum; for in the salmon and trout * Entwickelungsgeschichte der Fische, Leipzig, 1835, p. 9. figs. 1. and 2. t Do Ovi Mammal. &c, pi. xxv. Fig. 69 *. Development of the ova of Gasterosteua. A. B. c. r>. Four ova of the Stickleback in the earlier stages of their development within their ovisacs. In that figured at A, which is the earliest, ^J' in diam., the germinal vesicle placed near the cen- tre has scarcely any perceptible membrane or wall, but resembles a gelatinous mass in which the small number of macula; are developed: there is as yet no yolk, but only a slightly turbid fluid substance filling the space between the ovisac and the ger- minal vesicle: delicate epithelial cells project from the inner surface of the ovisac. In b. J^Ji the macula; have increased in number, the germinal vesicle, as well as all the other parts, has increased in size, the fine granules of the yolk sub- stance have begun to be deposited towards the periphery, but there is as yet no vitelline mem- brane. The wall of the ovisac is now more distinct, and besides the internal cells, there are seen on the exterior the nuclei of external flattened cells. In c. 1|i5" the macula; have become more numerous and distinct; the yolk granules are more opaque and in greater quantity, and the mass of the yolk more circumscribed, a clear space now intervening between it and the wall of the ovisac.