648 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. cavity ; and, pressing upon the bladder and rectum, occasions sometimes an irritable con- dition of these parts. But usually at the end of the third month, the fundus may be felt emerging from the pelvic cavity ; and in the course of the fourth month, it is always easily distinguishable in the lower part of the hypo- gastric region, having then risen to the height of about three fingers-breadth above the pelvic brim. In the fifth month, the hypogastric region is completely filled ; the abdomen then acquiring a considerable rotundity in this situ- ation. By the termination of the sixth month, the umbilical region also is filled, and the fundus uteri may be felt on a level with, or a little above, the navel. In the course of the remaining three months, the uterus rises gra- dually, until its fundus reaches the level of the ensiform cartilage. And this is very nearly the limit of its ascent, though it occasionally, and chiefly in first pregnancies, rises slightly above that point. In women who have a roomy pelvis, and in those cases where the natural form of the uterus is not altered by over-distension nor mal-position of the foetus, there usually takes place, a few days or shortly before labour, a certain descent of the uterus, which has the effect of partially emptying the epigastric region, and relieving it from the pressure which it had sustained, especially during the last month. The direction which the uterus takes in rising from the pelvis into the abdominal ca- vity, is determined by various circumstances; and it is interesting to observe in what way the addition of so large a body as the fully developed uterus to the already occupied ab- domen, is provided for, without any of the viscera suffering injurious pressure, and with- out that impediment to the circulating and respiratory systems, which, in the absence of such a provision, must inevitably take place. The oblique direction of the uterus, up- wards and forwards, is determined, firstly, by the corresponding obliquity of the pelvis, the plane of whose brim forms with the horizon an angle of 60°. But as the fundus gradually, after three months, emerges from the pelvic cavity, the oblique direction of the uterus is maintained by the symphysis pubis in front, and the sacral promontory behind. Between these, the superior portion of the uterus con- tinues to ascend, supported next by the abdo- minal walls anteriorly, and the spine poste- riorly. The intestines, being bound down by the mesentery, cannot be displaced, and will Position of the uterus at the end of pregnancy. (After Maygrier;')