474 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. plexities whose solution appears to me to be essential to any philosophical treatment of the subject, and to the consideration of which I, therefore, propose to devote the following Preliminary Section. § I. My first difficulty was to find an answer to the question,—What constitutes a tegu- mentary organ as distinguished from any other ? The most obvious definition of an integu- ment or tegumentary organ is, of course, — that which forms the external covering of any animal—viscus, on the other hand, being that which is contained. More strictly, it may be said that the integument constitutes that free surface of an animal which is ex- ternal to the edges of the oral and anal aper- tures, or where the former alone exists, to its edge. Now these definitions are perfectly sufficient so far as surface is concerned ; but suppose we make a section perpendicular to the surface, where does integument cease, and where does viscus begin ? So far as I am aware, no elucidation of this point has hither- to been undertaken, and yet, for want of it, the greatest confusion prevails in the nomen- clature of those organs which constitute the outer wall of the animal frame. Intimately connected with this question, and indeed forming a part of it, is a second. In man and the higher animals, there is an universally recognised distinction of the integument into two portions,— the epidermis and the derma; and these terms have been extended to all animals. But, if we inquire what constitutes an epidermis, and what a derma, no definite answer is to be met with. It may be said that the derma is vascular, while the epidermis is nonvascular; or that the epidermis is a simple cellular horny structure, while the derma is complex and fibrous; but these characters, applicable enough among the higher animals, fail completely with the lower. Thus, in the majority of the Invertebrata, the derma cannot be said to be vascular, while, on the other hand, the epidermis, or its representative, assumes the structure of fibrous tissue, bone, cartilage, dentine, and enamel, — acquires, in fact, the utmost complexity, and, instead of possessing a horny nature, contains chitin, cellulose or calca- reous salts. Following Mr. Bowman, — who, of course, when he wrote his well-known article on " Mucous Membrane," in this Cyclopaedia, could not contemplate the new questions to which the progress of ten years would give rise,— many regard that which is external to a " basement membrane " as epidermic, that which is internal to it, as dermic structure. This test, however, fails us where we most want it; for among the lower animals, and in some integumentary organs among the higher, membranes identical in structure, or rather in structurelessness, with " basement" mem- branes, may be met with, forming the surface of what are assuredly epidermic organs. I believe that here, as elsewhere, the only ultimate appeal lies to development, both as it occurs in the embryo and as it goes on in the adult. What, in fact, is the first process which takes place in the embryo, when the germinal disc is once formed ? It is a sepa- ration into two layers, by the setting up within the outer portion of the primitive germ of a process of growth independent of that in the inner portion. Where these two arese or planes of growth, as they might be called, meet, the germ readily separates into two portions, the outer of which is the so-called serous layer, the primordial tegumentary system; while the inner is the mucous layer, the primordial viscus. Of course each of these, while actually integument and intestine, represents potentially a great deal more,— the former, for instance, in the higher animals becoming eventually differentiated into the proper tegumentary system and a great part of the nervous, the muscular, and the vas- cular systems; but what I wish to direct attention to at this moment, is the fact, that this first differentiation into integument and viscus proceeds from the setting up of two independent lines, or rather pianes of growth, in the germinal membranes. In the Hydra and Hydroid Polypes gene- rally, we have the essence of this embryonic state as a persistent condition. If, in fact, the body or almost any organ of one of these animals be examined, it will be found (see Memoir on the Structure of the Medusae, Phil. Trans. 1849) to be composed of two distinct mem- branes, an inner and an outer (Jig. 303. a). The junction between the two is distinctly marked by a clear line, which would elsewhere be called a basement membrane (a). External and internal to this, there is a layer of young tissue, consisting of a homogeneous periplast with minute imbedded endoplasts (" nuclei"). As we proceed towards the free surface, we find that a process of vacuolation and cel- lulation takes place in the periplast, until the coarsely cellular appearance with which every one is acquainted is produced. Fig. 303. a, hydra; b, outer membrane; c, inner mem- brane. b, young mammal; b, epidermis; c, derma. In the Hydra, then, we have the whole thickness of the body divided into two por- tions by a line, on each side of which, inwards and outwards, there is an increasing histo- logical metamorphosis or differentiation. There is a median plane of no differentiation,