STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 324. rapid endosmose of water. But they are very quickly dissolved or burst, by contact with most of the fluids which are generally used in preparing such specimens for microscopic examination. During the five years that I have made the stomach an object of frequent (though inter- rupted) research, I have examined numerous specimens from the perfectly fresh stomachs of about thirty species of Vertebrata. The following is an outline of the few results I have obtained. As regards the pyloric tubes, those of the Cat, Rabbit, Hog, Ox, and (iuinea-pig, resemble those of the Dog, in containing a columnar epithelium, and having a distinct calibre to their termination. Those of the Horse resemble the tubes of the human stomach in possessing the oval or gastric cells. In most, if not all of these animals, the tubes ramify. As respects the cardiac tubes, the minute central calibre observed by Koelliker in those of the Dog appears to be also present in the Cat and Guinea-pig; and,from analog}', is not unlikely to exist in most Vertebrata. The large oval cells are the rule throughout the Vertebrate kingdom. And in many Rep- tiles, as well as in the very young animals of most orders, the numerous cytoblasts enclosed by these cells are much more distinct. In only two instances have I found no large cells present in the cardiac tubes, and in both of these, the stomach was evidently disorgan- ized by commencing putrefaction. In some Fishes, however — such as the Mackerel—it is only the middle or apex of the F-shaped stomach which is occupied by tubes. And in the Minnow, Carp, and Tench of the Cyprinoid genus, as well as in the river Lam- prey (Petromt/zon fluviatile) no tubes are present. Finally, while there are many species in which the gastric structures appear to be softer and more delicate during the time of digestion than in the fasting state, in none have I been able to verify the least difference in the morphology of the organ at these two periods. Those who are familiar with the diffi- culties that oppose the successful examina- tion of the softer tissues of the animal body will probably bear with me if I end this de- scription by what may seem a superfluous caution to the observer. There are many appearances seen in these delicate tubes, which are produced by the mechanical violence necessary to their isolation, aided by the softening of incipient putrefaction or self- digestion, or by the endosmose of the di- lute fluids which are sometimes added to such specimens in preparing them for the microscope. Thus the tubes often deviate from the above account in the absence of gastric cells, in the presence of short branches that are given off near their blind extre- mities, and in the spiral or bulbous shape which these ends sometimes assume. Indeed, when we reflect upon the extreme tenuity of their basement membrane, the nature of their contents, and the firmness with which they are imbedded in a dense areolar and muscular tissue, we shall scarcely be surprised to find, that the violent disruption of these attach- ments can distort the tubes, or break up their soft contents. But the careful manipulation of perfectly fresh specimens, in a proper fluid me- dium (such as the serum of the blood, or a strong solution of common salt) renders these appearances so rare, as to render it highly probable that they are accidental. While conversely, the application of a slight pres- sure, the use of water and dilute acids, and the commencement of digestive or putrefactive softening, will often produce them in a spe- cimen from which they were formerly absent. In addition to the cylindrical tubes, some * anatomists have found in the stomach ramified glands, which end in acini or dilated extre- mities. These are stated to occupy the neighbourhood of the pylorus, wherethey form a kind of transitional structure between the gastric and the duodenal glands. I have once or twice seen appearances in the tubes o! this part which corresponded pretty closely with the above description. In two other instances, a single flask-shaped dilatation was appended to some of the ordinary tubes, which it thus doubled in diameter. But the arrangement of these latter dilatations, as well as the condition of the remainder of the specimens, left melittle doubt that they were due to accidental violence, which had distended the terminal branches of a tube with a large portion of its displaced contents. While their shape and situation (in the mucous membrane itself, instead of its submucous tissue) sufficed to show that they were not lenticular glands ; — an argument which will equally militate against the notion of their being a transition to the duodenal glands, since these occupy a similar position. Lenticular glands are also found in the stomach. As regards their shape, size, situation, and contents, they correspond so completely with the solitary glands of the intestine, that we may refer the reader to these for their special description. Their number varies extremely. Sometimes it is im- possible to find any. In other specimens, they are scattered more or less thickly through- out the whole organ. They are said chiefly to affect the lesser curvature ; but I have seen them sown very plentifully over the pyloric region only. In children, they are rarely absent. And among the brute Mammalia, they are found occasionally in the Dog f, and constantly in the Pig. % Structures more or less analogous to these glands probably also exist in the Beaver, Kangaroo, Dugong, and many other animals. Matrix. The cylindrical tubes of the sto- mach are united to each other, in their whole length, by a sparing quantity of a fibrous * Bruch (in Henle and Pfeufer's Zeitschrift. f. Rat. Path. Bd. viii. p. 272. et seq.) ; Ecker (id. op. 18.52. p. 244.). Compare Bischoff (in Mueller's Ar- chiv. 1838. p. 503.) t Bischoff, Op. cit. p. 510. j Id. op.; also Wasmann (DeDigestione Nonnulla. Berlin. 1830. p. 8.), and Koelliker, Op. cit. p. 150.