530 RUMINANTIA. melidae, as in the Horse, rising from the ex- ternal condyle and inferior fourth of the hu- Fig. 353. Deep layer of muscles of the fore-limb of the Ox, viewed from within, (From Gurlt.) 1, supra-spinatus ; 2, 2, subscapularis ; 2*, teres minor; 3, teres major; 4, latissimus dorsi; 5, ex- tensor cub. longus; 6, anconeus longus; 7, an- con. internus; 8, coraco-braehialis; 9, pectoralis major; 10, biceps brachii; 11, brachialis internus; 12, extens. carpi radialis; 13, pronator teres; 14, flexor carpi radialis ; 15, flexor digit, sublimis ; 16, flex, carpi ulnaris internus. merus to be inserted into the base of the can- non bone at the fore-part. Antagonistic to this, is the flexor carpi radialis (14; Jig. 352.), the tendon of which is connected to the base of the cannon bone behind. The tendons of the extensores digitorum lovgior (II) and bre- vior (12, Jig. 352.) separate in front of the foot, the divisions of the former being inserted into the base of the ultimate bones of the toes, and those of the latter into the distal extremities of the penultimate phalanges. A muscle corresponding to the abductor pollicis (10) is present, notwithstanding the absence of the thumb, and becomes attached to the inner aspect of the inferior end of the cannon bone. The Jiexores carpi ulnaris externus (13) and internus (16, Jig. 352.) are both inserted into the pisiform bone. The tendons of the Jlexor digitorum sublimis (1.5, fig. 352.) and of the flex, digit, profundus perforans remain dis- tinct, the latter piercing the former as usual, to be implanted into the base of the distal phalanges of either toe. Muscles of the haunch and hind-limb.—The gluteus maximus (15, Jig. 349.), which is but feebly manifested in all quadrupeds, owing to the horizontal position of the body, has an in- significant development in ruminants. It rises from the crest of the ilium and sacral fascia, receiving in its passage down a strong tendon from the tensor fascia lata (I6,flg. 349.) ; the tendon proper to the glutaeus becomes inserted below the trochanter, while that of the tensor is continued on in front of the tibia, perform- ing in some measure the office of a flexor. The biceps femoris or vastus longus of Bourgelat (17, 18,fig. 349.), is a muscle of striking proportions in this order and in solipeds. It originates by two distinct heads, one of which proceeds from the tail and sacro-sciatic fascia, and the other comes off from the tuberosity of the ischium ; the fibres of both proceed down- ward, and are inserted, the former chiefly into the head of the tibia, and the latter into the general aponeurotic covering of the leg. In consequence of the posterior border of the front division overlapping the ischiatic por- tion, there results a well marked groove or raphe, forming a characteristic feature exter- nally on the skin as when the muscle is in ac- tion ; this is better seen in the Horse. The ar- rangements of the iliacus internus (17, Jig. 350.), gluteus medius (18), and minimus (19), and piriformis, are similar to those in Man, differ- ing mainly in proportion, the last named being particularly small; the same observation applies more or less to the obturator externus and internus, the geme/li, quadratus femoris, vasti and adductores, the two groups of muscles comprehended under the latter titles being chiefly interesting on account of their great size and strength. Having already extended our myological descriptions beyond the prescribed limits, we conclude this part of our subject by observing that the muscles of the hind leg resemble those of Solipeda so closely as scarcely to demand a separate notice, while those acting upon the digits have the same general dis- position as in the fore limb. Integumentary System. — Under this head we proceed to indicate very briefly certain peculiarities of the hair, and more particularly the elastic cushion of the sole of the foot, and the remarkable protuberances situated on the back of the Camel. While the growth and condition of the cuti- cular layer of the skin in the different classes of ruminants is of the highest importance in an economic point of view, it is not the less certain that the phases of development through which the integumentary covering passes — its varied aspect and periodicity of renewal, together with the causes which in- duce such changes — are matters of high in- terest to the physiologist. In no group of mammiferous quadrupeds have we a more striking example of the adaptation of structure to the exigences of the creature than obtains in the remarkable dorsal