190 PELVIS. of the weight of the bone) in 100 parts—the great diminution of the earthy matter will be evident. In rickets the bones of the lower extremities first exhibit deformity, which appears chiefly as an aggravation of the natural curves under pressure, and as a yielding in the direction of the lines of muscular motion. The femurs, for instance, are bent, in most cases, with the con- vexity forwards and a little outwards ; the tibiae and fibulae generally with the convexity forwards and inwards, so that the knees are bent inwards and the feet thrown outwards and backwards (see fig. 122. b and e.) The bones of the pelvis and spine become affected, and those of the upper extremities, ribs, and head afterwards follow. The spinal column may be extensively deformed, especially at its upper part, with- out any deformity whatever of the pelvis. An example of this is to be found in the Museum of King's College, and many in the Hunterian Museum. Many others are also recorded. In most of these cases, however, the special curvature results from caries of the vertebras, or lateral curvature. Meckel remarks, that spinal curves result- ing from general disease of the bones, such as rickets, are usually accompanied by pel- vic deformity. The lumbar portion of the spine is curved forwards and sideways, the thoracic portion backwards ; and sometimes, the bodies of the vertebrae become affected with caries, and produce angular curvature and ankylosis. The sacrum at the same time sinks under the weight of the spine, and the pelvis becomes impressed, generally, with the complete ovate distortion, or one of the partial deformities of brim, cavity, or outlet, which are its commencements. In a good many cases, however, as we shall presently see, the rickety pelvis assumes the angular form of distortion ; and, in some, the oblong form previously described. It is, however, univer- sally shallow, contracted, and of small ca- pacity. The iliac wings are thin, and present a greater central area of translucency than usual; while the columnar masses of bone are shorter, lighter, and less dense, but often present, as we have seen in the ovate pelvis with universally diminished diameters, a thickening of their bulk, corresponding to the shortening they have experienced by pressure. Rokitansky mentions that this thickening takes place in common with all the osseous structures abounding in diploetic tissue. In many instances, it evidently depends upon the excess of reparative osseous deposit, described by Stanley as taking place in the lines of the greatest pressure. In all the specimens I have examined, it takes place by far the most considerably in the cotylo-sacral rib, through which the greatest amount of pelvic pressure passes. Shaw pointed oat that in most rickety deformed pelves, the contraction of the diame- ter at the brim is universal as well as dispro- portionate, from the absolute shortening and atrophy of the bones. In fourteen rickety femal adult pelves, he found a general de- ficiency, in the measurements of the bones, of one quarter of the whole normal size. He also found that the bones of the lower ex- tremity generally are atrophied in this disease more than those of the upper.* Rokitansky also considers rickets to interfere with the general development of the bone. Moltities osdtim or Malacosteon adultorum is a disease, not very frequent, affecting the full-grown adult skeleton. It most commonly affects the female sex about the middle period of life, but seldom, according toRigby, attacks women who have had no children. Three instances in which this disease occurred in the male subject are, however, given by Mr. Curling in the Med. Chir. Trans, (vol. xx. p. SCO.). Nor does it seem to be confined to middle age—in Kellies' case, the woman was aged only twenty-seven years—nor to par- turient women, as will be seen in Mr. Solly's case. In many cases, it is said to depend upon the cancerous diathesis, and to result from the dissemination of cancerous matter throughout the system, infecting the nutrition of the animal matter of the bones, and replacing the earthy constituents ; thus causing the osseous structures to lose their cohesive power. By far the greater proportion of the complete cases of pelvic deformity, as well as the most extreme and universal contraction of diame- ters, have resulted from this disease. For the particular pathological instances of this remarkable disease the reader is referred again to the article on the Pathology of Bone (p. 442. vol. i.) In addition to the cases there described, may be mentioned one which was brought before the Med. Chirurgieal Society by Mr. Solly, and published in vol. xxiii. of the Transactions (p. 437.). The subject was a female who had never borne children, and the fragility of the bones ap- peared at as early an age as twenty-two. She had violent pains in the back, and a while sediment in the urine. At the age of twenty- four, the spine began to yield, and she had rheumatic pains in the head. At thirty-six years, the catamenia ceased, and the patient began to be unable to walk or stand, and had great pain ; the greatest deformity being then apparent about the hips and shoulders. The bones of the head then became thickened, and those of the lower extremities more curved, and fractured by the slightest force;! but the urine at this time was clear and natural. The patient died, worn out by the disease ; and post-mortem examination showed the long bones to be reduced to mere outer shells, which could easily be cracked by pressure with the finger and thumb. The interior was filled with grumous matter, of hues varying from dark blood to light liver-colour. Both the femurs were broken, the tibia? and fibulas bent, the spine much curved, and the pelvis extremely reduced in its diameters ; but the joints and cartilages were all healthy. The cranial bones were much thickened, and so soft as to be easily cut with a knife. The * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 434.