STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 297 species. Some of the circulatory movements observed in their ingesta are perhaps accom- plished by the aid of such an apparatus. While their vigorous and almost peristaltic character in other instances is due to structures, the voluntary and powerful contractions of which entitle them to rank as muscles. The cilio-brachiate Polyp possesses an ab- dominal cavity occupied by fluid, in which the alimentary canal is free to move. The canal itself has a mouth and anus, which are both situated at the free extremity of the animal; —the former orifice being within, the latter without, its whorl of tentacles. The mouth opens into a pharyngeal dilatation, from which a narrow tube leads into an organ analogous to a gizzard. This organ possesses radiating muscular fibres, and rhomboidal teeth, that are capable of crushing its contents. Immediately beneath it is the stomach, in shape like a two- necked Mask, and having its blind extremity fixed to the attached base of the animal by a retractory muscle. The pyloric aperture is guarded by cilia, which rotate, and thus delay, the food. The intestine is narrow and simple, and its excrementitious contents are expelled from the anus, to be immediately hurried away by the current arising from the action of the neighbouring cilia. The body of the Acalephae generally con- stitutes a disc with a fringed margin. It is convex above, and concave below, with large dependent processes. Ami it swims by what seems to be an alternate preponderance of contraction in these two surfaces. The condition of the alimentary canal is here very remarkable. The Entozoa have already offered us a ramified tube, that could scarcely be regarded as strictly diges- tive. But these Sea-nettles further com- plicate this branched state by the posses- sion of a central cavity. This is sometimes placed between a convergent and a divergent set of anastomosing canals ; and sometimes approaches the stomach of the Distoma in possessing the latter set only. In the latter case, the so-called stomach communicates, by a short and simple tube, with the centre of the lower or concave surface. And in one species it also radiates unbranched tubes which open on the margin of the disc. The movements of the contents of these canals seem to be effected by cilia. The ramifications of the canals chiefly occupy the under surface of the animal. The large order of Echinodcrmata again presents us with an important advance of development in passing from its lowest to its highest members. Thus the alimentary canal of the Asterias has a single aperture on the under surface of the animal. This leads by a short tube to a central cavity, which divides into two pro- cesses for each ray. These processes give ofF secondary branches at right angles to them- selves, and the latter end in tertiary ca;ca. In Comatula the ca;ca disappear, and the canal acquires a distinct mouth and anus, which open near each other. In all, the canal is muscular, is enclosed in a ciliated peritoneum, and has its primary divisions attached by a kind of mesentery. In the Echinus, the anus generally opens on the upper or opposite surface of the body. Many of this genus have a complex masti- catory organ, which is acted upon by powerful muscles. The first part of the canal opens into an intestine of much larger diameter, opposite to a blind dilatation very like the human caecum. The intestine is coiled twice around the inner surface of the shell; the second coil reversing the direction taken by the first, and both exhibiting a sinuous course. Its width tapers away to the anus. Its struc- ture is delicate and transparent; it possesses a mucous membrane, and longitudinal and trans- verse fibres ; and it exhibits an intestinal vein, which is especially marked towards the termi- nation of the canal. In the vermiform Holoilnmce the canal forms a kind of Z in the abdominal cavity;— passing first backwards, then forwards, and again backwards to its posterior extremity. The first part is wider and stronger than the rest, and its more glandular mucous membrane presents longitudinal folds which terminate in a slight circular one. Such a structure causes this dilatation to be regarded as a stomach. The narrowing intestine often ter- minates in a large oval cloaca, into which open two branching caeca.* The Annelida form a class of animals so diverse in nature and structure, that, it is diffi- cult to include all the varieties of their diges- tive apparatus within a mere brief sketch. The canal always possesses a distinct mouth and anus, which occupy the opposite ends of the more or less elongated and cylindrical body. Prehension is generally aided by teeth, which, as in the Leech, perforate the skin of their prey ; while in others — as in some of the Errantes—it is effected solely by a proboscis. In many of the marine Errantes the intes- tinal canal is simple. In the Lumbrici the canal soon dilates into a membranous pouch, which is followed by a thicker and more muscular portion, supposed to be a gizzard. In some genera, this part of the tube is com- plicated by being produced into pouches. These are either numerous, as in the Leech; or few, as in some kindred genera. Fi- nally, in the Earth-worm, they are reduced to mere constrictions of the canal ; while in the Aphrodita, they are developed into tubes, which expand, divide, and terminate as al- most globular pouches. Clusters of glandular follicles, which are supposed to be biliary, open into the posterior half of the complicated canal of the leech just alluded to; and analo- gous structures are found in other genera. In the Earth-worm, there is a singular ap- paratus, the tyiphlosole. This is a blind tube, which occupies almost the whole length of the canal, being attached to its dorsal aspect, and * Such a complex organization is strangely con- trasted with the alleged fact, that the animal, when alarmed, can shed the whole canal. This extraor- dinary act is presumed to be voluntary, and is only paralleled by the growth of another "digestive ap- paratus, which replaces that evacuated.