459 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. that clear indications of pain were elicited. From ligature applied to the renal nerves, as well as from the application of chemical or mechanical stimuli to the semilunar ganglia, animals suffered great pain. So, also, Flourens* found that on irritating the semi- lunar ganglion in dogs the animals exhibited distinct signs of pain, and the same results were obtained by Brachet f, from irritation of the thoracic ganglia. Frequently, according to Brachet, stimuli, when first applied to a part of the nerve, do not give rise to pain ; after- wards, however, when the part has been ex- posed to the air for some minutes, if irritation be now applied distinct signs of pain are elicited. Longet J, in like manner, found that on irritation of the semilunar ganglia the animal almost invariably exhibited indications of more or less pain being produced. In other animals, where the lumbar ganglia were sub- jected to experiment, he found, like Brachet, that it -was only after prolonged irritation that signs of pain were evinced. So, also, accord- ing to Valentin when the cavities of the thorax or abdomen are opened as quickly as possible, and pressure applied to the semi- lunar ganglion, to the splanchnics, or to any other branch of the sympathetic, sometimes no signs indicative of sensibility are evinced. When, however, they have been exposed to the air for a short time they generally exhibit these properties in greater or less degree. The severe pain which frequently attends diseases of parts supplied exclusively by the sympa- thetic nerve, also affords still better evidence than can be derived from experiments of the existence of sensory nerve fibres in the sym- pathetic. Different parts of the nerve appear to exhibit the property of sensibility in different degrees. In regard to this point, Valentin || gives the following as the results of his ex- periments. 1st. The very grey branches which have passed through several ganglia do not, when the stimulus applied to them is slight, give rise to any signs which would indicate that pain was produced. Such branches are those which pass along the mesentery to the intestine ; strong stimuli, however, such as the application of a ligature or of chemical irritants, cause, when applied even to these branches, distinct signs of pain. 2nd. Irritation of the ganglia themselves is followed by signs of pain either immediately or after a short time. 3rd. The connecting cord of the sym- pathetic is similarly circumstanced in regard to sensibility as the ganglia. 4th. The rami communicantes are as highly endowed with sensibility as the posterior roots of the neigh- bouring spinal nerves. He found that section * Rech. Experimental, sur les propr. etles Fonc- tions du System. Nerv. p. 229., as quoted by Longet. t Rech. Experiment, sur les Fonct. du Systeme Nerv. Gangl. 2nd edit., Paris, 1837, p. 3o7., as quoted by Longet. 1 Op. cit. ii. p. 5G6. § Lehrbuch der Pbysiologie des Menschen, 1844, band ii. p. 421. || Op. cit. band ii. p. 422., as quoted by Longet. of a communicating branch did not destroy the sensibility of the corresponding ganglion : the main cord of the sympathetic must also be divided above and below the ganglion before this ensues. In the lumbar region Brachet* found that, when the communicating branches of three successive ganglia were divided, the central ganglion was deprived of its sensory properties. The greater the number of ganglia intervening between the point of the branches of the sympathetic, to which the irritant is applied, and the cerebro-spinal centres, the less distinctly, according to Valentin, does it give rise to signs of pain. Hence, the peri- pheral branches are the least sensitive, while the rami communicantes are the most highly endowed with this property, the connecting or main cord of the sympathetic and ganglia being intermediate in this respect between these two. The nature of the stimulus ap- plied has also an influence on the results produced : when the ganglia are merely pricked, or their branches quickly divided, sometimes no sign of sensibility is evinced, whereas pressure, application of nitric acid or potash to the same parts give rise to distinct expres- sions of pain. In regard to the experiments which are made with a view to ascertain the sensory properties of this nerve, it is to be observed that in general it is only by application of very powerful stimuli that the phenomena of sensibility are elicited : they seem to act by producing a more or less abnormal condition in the part of the nerve to which they are ap- plied, and hence the effects they produce may be regarded as belonging to the same category as the phenomena observed in diseased con- ditions of the organs supplied by this nerve. In the normal or healthy condition the fibres of the sympathetic seem to be almost entirely destitute of the property of communicating impressions to the sensonum. We do not know, as Volkmann observes, whether the organic muscles be at rest or in motion ; whether the glands secrete in larger or in smaller quantity ; whether the gall-bladder be full or empty. We are sensi ble of the impres- sions made by the particles of food so long as they remain in the month, but, as soon as they reach the stomach or intestinal canal, we are no longer aware of their presence. Motor properties. — That the sympathetic contains motor nerve fibres there can be no doubt; irritation of its branc lies being followed by movements in the differei it muscular organs to which they are distributed. Thus irrita- tion of the splanchnic n<erves in the living animal, or immediately aft/Ar death, is generally followed by more or les: 3 extensive contrac- tions in the small intestivie. Miiller observed that the same result foil owed irritation of the semilunar ganglion : the; same observation has also been made by Kii rschner.-j- Mechanical or chemical irritation , but especially galvanic * Op. cit. p. 360., as 1 quoted by Longet. t Abhandlungen Iibe r das Nerven System, von M. Hall, Aus clem En gliscken von D. C. Ki'ush- ner, Marburg, 1840, N; jchtraege, p. 182.