RUMINANTI A. 529 greater, and divided into two,—a small fleshy bundle proceeding from the anterior extremity of the sternum to the lower part of the humerus, and a larger mass coming off from the whole length of the sternum pos- terior to the former, its fibres passing ob- liquely forward to be inserted into the external tuberosity of the same bone. There is an ad- ditional muscular slip in the Sheep and Horse, by the action of which the crossing of the fore-legs is produced ; this is denominated by hippotomists the ambibrachialis communis. Cu- vier remarks the same muscle in Cetacea. Corresponding to the scapular division of the deltoid in the human subject, there is, in ru- minants and solipeds, a muscle called the ab- ductor longus brachii or abd. brack, superior (14, fig. 350.) ; it generally exhibits two points of Fig. 352. Superficial layer of muscles of (he fore limb of (he Ox. (From Gurlt.) 1, supra-spinatus; 2, infra-spinatus; 3, abductor brevis; 4, anconeus longus; 5, exten. cubiti lon- gus; 6, ancon. externus ; 7, brachialis interims; 8, deltoides; 9, 9, exten. carpi radialis; 10, ab- ductor pollicis; 11, 11, extensor digit, longior; 12,12, exten. digit, brevior; 13, 13, flexor carpi ulnaris externus. attachment above, one at the spine of the scapula, and the other from the infra-spinous fossa. On their passage down, the fibres coalesce, and become inserted by a common tendon into the linca aspera of the humerus. The external scapular muscles, viz., thesupra- Supp. spinatus (I, fig. 352.) and infra-spinatus (2), are powerfully marked in this order ; the former is implanted by a double tendon of insertion into the anterior and internal tuber- osities of the humerus, the latter being con- nected below to the external tuberosity. The round muscles have the same attachments as in man, but the teres major or t. externus (3, Jig. 353.) is in Ruininantia and Solipeda smaller than the teres minor or t. interims (2, fig. 353). The sub-scapularis (2, 2 Jig. 353.) is of large size, and subdivided. The coraco-brachialis (8,fig. 353.) is always present, although there be no indication of a coracoid apophysis ; the greater part of the muscle lies deep, and is connected to the inner border of the upper half of the humerus, the remainder lying more superficially, and continuing as far as the internal condyle into which it is implanted. The biceps brachii coraco-radialis or flexor cubiti longus (10, Jig. 353.) has a similar disposition to its analogue in Man ; but in Carnivora and Solipeda, where the coracoid process is absent, it exhibits but one head. In the Bear, according to Cuvier, the absent division is represented by a mus- cular slip passing off from the coraco-brachi- alis. Meckel states that in the Camel and Dromedary the apparently single tendon of origin arises from the margin of the glenoid cavity as usual, but it is very thick, and can easily be separated into two portions, which are united only by cellular tissue. These, as they pass over the head of the humerus, swell out and enclose between them a sesa- moid body consisting of fibro-cartilage ; the external of the tendons is the larger, and also Subdivides, giving off a strong tendinous cord which becomes incorporated with the anti- brachial aponeurosis. The brachialis in/ernus, or flexor cubiti longus (7, Jig. 352. and 11, jig. 353.), is comparatively weak. In the typical ruminant it rises from the posterior and ex- ternal part of the neck of the humerus, but in the Camel it commences lower down from the middle third of the bone, its tendon of inser- tion in all cases being anterior to that of the long flexor. The divisions of the triceps ex- tensor cubiti are described under different names by hippotomists, but this disposition is similar to that of Man. The extensor cubiti longus (5, fig. 353.) is the extensor magnus of Bourgelat; the extensor brevis is the extensor mcdius of the same author, and the anconcous longus of Gurlt ; the brachialis externus is the extensor brevis of the former and the anconeus externus of the latter. There is also another muscle termed by Gurlt the anconeus interims (7,.fig. 353.). The Ruininantia and Solipeda are generally described as possessing neither supinators nor pronators, but the above-named author figures in the Ox a small muscular bundle, which he calls the pronator teres (13, Jig. 353.) ; and moreover Meckel points out the rudiments of this muscle in the Camel, remarking at the same time that its function is no longer that of a pronator but of a flexor. The extensor carpi radialis (9, Jig. 352.) is single in the Ca- M M