RUMINANTIA. 516 shallow. In the Camel there is an additional process at the parotid border (w, Jig. 334.), analogous to the similar but more marked apophysis in Carnivora. Cranial peculiarities. — Under this head we proceed to notice certain arrangements re- quiring further attention, and in the first place the remarkable sinuses which exist in the skull of the Giraffe. Though these be nothing more than an extension of the ordinary frontal, ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells, yet their significance is not the less apparent or important when considered in a physiological or teleological point of view. It has been considered necessary to pre- serve the cranium of the Giraffe at present in our possession entire ; consequently, we are unable to offer any account of these sinuses from personal examination, which is the less to be regretted, as Prof. Owen has placed Fig. 338. Sectional view of the cranium of the Giraffe. (From Owen.) on record the following description of this structure*: "The part of the skull to which the elastic ligament is attached is raised considerably above the roof of the cranial cavity by the extension backwards of large sinuses, or air-cells, as far as the occiput. The sinuses commence above the middle of the nasal cavity, and increase in depth and width to beneath the base of the horns, where their vertical extent equals that of the cere- bral cavity itself. The exterior table of the skull, thus widely separated from the vitreous table, is supported by stout bony partitions, extended chiefly in the transverse direction, and with an oblique and wavy course. Two of the most remarkable of these bony walls are placed at the front and back part of the base of the horns, intercepting a large sinus immediately over the middle of the cranial cavity, and from a third and larger one be- hind. The sphenoidal sinuses are of a large size." Slight differences in the development of the cranium are found in Giraffes inhabiting respectively the more northern or southern regions of Africa, these peculiarities having especial relation to the position and approxi- mation of the horns. In the Abyssinian specimen (about two years old) dissected by us, several particulars were noted, a few of which are here selected -j-: — * Memoir on the Anatomy of the Nubian Giraffe, Zool. Trans, vol. ii. p. 235. f Dr. Cobbold, On the Anatomy of the Giraffe, Annals of Nat. Hist, for June, 1854. Inche3 19 HI Length of cranium - - - - Breadth between orbits - Incisive angle to central eminence Length of horns - Distance between horns at the base 0£ Depth of orbit ----- 3 Diameter of orbital ring - 2^ Breadth of occipital condyles - 3g Vertical depth of each condyle - - - 2£ Length of lower jaw - , - - 15j In this list will be remarked the extreme elongation of the bones of the face, as shown by the distance of the incisive angle from the central prominence—the great depth of the orbits—the narrow space between the bases of the horns — the length of the jaw—and more particularly the extended vertical dia- meter of the condyloid facets of the occipital bone. The elongation of these articular sur- faces in the direction indicated, permits of the head being drawn into a line with the neck, and Prof. Owen states, from observing this action in the living animal, that he has seen it stretched backward beyond this line. Horns. — In the Giraffe we have a unique example of solid persistent horns, completely invested with a hairy integument. They are placed on two bony elevations, having a position analogous, in some respects, to that of the osseous cores of the Stags ; but, being separated from them by a synchondrosis, they are to be regarded as independent develop- ments or " epiphyses " and not " apophy- sial " outgrowths (flg. 328.). As has been al- ready observed, the protuberances are formed in part by the parietal and frontal bones, the