622 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. is to be found in the tube. According to Schrceder, a decidua is here formed in tubal pregnancy, notwithstanding that in the walls of the tube glandulse utriculares are entirely wanting. The villi are here embedded in little hollows of the decidua, upon whose walls the blood vessels terminate in open mouths, and thus the blood is poured out into the placenta. The decidua is, indeed, in this case firmer, and does not exhibit so many valvular openings as are present in an ordi- nary placenta ; probably from the absence of the utricular glands. In this case, also, an epithelial layer derived from the decidua covers the villi, and serves at the same time as a means of junction between the parts.* Associated usually with the abnormal deve- lopment of the ovum in the oviduct is the for- mation of a decidua in the uterus, the nature of which structure will be considered in a subse- quent portion of this article (pp. 635. 652). And here it naturally occurs to inquire into the probable causes of the development of the ovum in a situation so unfavourable to its further and complete evolution. Since, not- withstanding the wonderful power of adapta- tion which is in these cases exhibited by the parts immediately surrounding and containing the ovum, it is plain that the oviduct how- ever altered, yet, on account of its peculiar form and texture, can but inadequately supply the offices of a uterus. It can serve but im- perfectly for the nutrition and protection of the fcetus, and not at all for its expulsion, even should the latter reach the term of its dependent or intra-uterine life. One of the most remarkable circumstances relating to this curious subject, is the fact first noticed, I believe, by Dr. Oldham, that in a large number of cases of tubal gestation, the corpus luteum, corresponding with the ovum impregnated, is found in the ovary of the op- posite side to that of the tube in which the ovum is developed. Thus if the left Fallo- pian tube contains the ovum, the right ovary will often display the corpus luteum of a cor- responding date, and vice versa. Not being at first aware of Dr. Oldham's observation, I had myself noticed the same circumstance in re- peated instances, and had arrived at the same conclusion as he has done in explanation of it, namely, that at the time of the ovum quitting the ovary, the tube of the one side embraced the opposite ovary, and conducted away the ovum, which being impregnated in the ordinary way, and then being delayed at the angle formed by the bending of the tube, has its further progress obstructed at that point until it attains too great a size to ad- mit of its subsequently passing the lower orifice and entering the cavity of the uterus. If it be objected that this explanation is not satisfactory, because it assumes the ap- parent improbability of the fimbriated ex- tremity of one Fallopian tube being able to * Upon this point I do not here give any obser- vations of my own, as I am preparing these for publication in another form. grasp the opposite ovary, then I can point to a preparation in the Cambridge University Anatomical Museum *, in which both the Fallopian tubes grasp the same ovary to which their extremities are affixed by morbid ad- hesion. Another and very different explanation of this remarkable circumstance of the impreg- nated ovum and corresponding corpus luteum being found on opposite sides, has been given by Dr. Tyler Smith f, who believes that the ovum, after descending the Fallopian tube of one side, traverses the upper part of the uterine cavity, and ascends the opposite ovi- duct, where it becomes developed. I might also furnish the advocates of this doctrine with an argument founded upon a most in- teresting and curious observation of Bischoff, which appears to have been overlooked, but which would at first sight seem to support this view. Bischoff, in his essay on the de- velopment of the ovum in the dog and rabbit, frequently noticed a remarkable apportioning of the ova between the two cornua of the uterus, so as to equalise their number on the two sides, when these had been ori- ginally unequal, as shown by the number of corpora lutea found in the ovaries. Thus, in the case of a bitch whose right ovary ex- hibited one, and the left ovary five corpora lutea, each half of the uterus contained three ova, so that two of the ova must have tra- velled across from the right to the left side. But it must be observed, that in the cases recorded by Bischoff the ova never ascended the Fallopian tube, but only travelled from one cornu of the uterus to the other. When, therefore, we take into considera- tion the great difference between the solid uterus of man and the intestine-like organ of the mammalia, on which these observations were made, there appears to be great diffi- culty in supposing that the ovum could after once arriving at the uterus again enter an oviduct, especially when also it is remembered that while the conical form of the Fallopian tube, whose smallest aperture is towards the uterus, constitutes a provision for ensuring the arrival of the ovum there, this arrange- ment would greatly diminish the possibility of a retrograde movement taking place in the human subject, if indeed it would not alto- gether prevent it. But to those cases of tubal gestation in which the corpus luteum is found in the cor- responding ovary, neither of these explanations would apply. Here it is only necessary to suppose, that either the developmental changes already described as occurring normally to the ovum in the tube, have proceeded more rapidly than usual, or else, that the ovum, having been accidentally delayed for a longer time than ordinary in transitu, had acquired too great a magnitude to admit of its passage by the ute- rine orifice, even admitting, as some have supposed, that this orifice may, to a certain * No. 722. t Lancet, No. xv. vol. i. 1856.