OVUM. [92] of sexual union, and they are thence taken up singly by the open upper extremities of the two oviducts ; through the whole of which canals they descend, and in their passage receive an additional covering of a peculiar gelatinous or albuminous substance, which adheres closely to the surface of the yolk membrane, and is firm and of comparatively little bulk while the ova are still within the oviduct, but which after exclusion rapidly swells by the im- bibition of a large quantity of water, so as to become several times its original thickness, and to assume a soft gelatinous consistence. The ova which have passed through the oviducts remain foratime accumulated in large numbers in a dilated part of the canals near their lower end, until the whole or greater part of those which are ready to descend from the ovary have passed down ; and then, while the male still continues united with the female, the ova are rapidly excluded, and the male sheds the spermatic fluid in abundance, partly on the ova as they pass into the water, and partly after separating from the female, upon the spawn as it floats in the water. The importance of the imbibition of water by the gelatinous covering immediately on the exclusion of the ova and just at the time when the spermatic fluid has been placed upon them, in securing the access of the sperma- tozoa to the surface of the vitelline membrane through the stiff jelly, and in thus promoting fecundation, will be afterwards more particu- larly adverted to. In the tailed Amphibia, such as the differ- ent kinds of Newt (Salamandra, Triton, and Lissotriton) there is not the same union of the male and female as in the tailless or Anu- rous Batrachia ; and impregnation takes place by the entrance of the spermatic fluid, shed in the water by the male while placed near the fe- male, into the oviducts of the latter. In these animals the external covering consists of an elliptical membranous capsule filled with a clear fluid and containing the coloured sphe- rical yolk ; but there is also externally a small quantity of gelatinous substance which in some of them serves to attach the ova to leaves of plants orother objects. In the common larger and smaller newts the ova are in smaller number than in the frog or toad, and are excluded one by one by the female, which deposits them singly in a folded leaf or other piace of security.* The yolk of the ripe ovarian ovum in Am- phibia consists of a thick opaque mass of vitelline substance, within which and towards one side the large germinal vesicle is placed. The vitelline substance is usually of a darker colour on the exterior and lighter in the cen- tre. In the common toad the superficial part is almost black ; in the common frog, liana temporaria, it is of a very dark brown ; and it is in different other species of various hues, as * I have frequently observed this process, which has been beautifully described and figured by Mauro Rusconi in his work, " Amours des Sala- mandrcs Aquatiques, Milan, 1821." stated in a former part of this article. The dark superficial part does not in general cover the whole surface of the yolk, but is deficient on one side ; and its extent as compared with the inner paler part, which appears where the dark part terminates, varies in different spe- cies and is greater in proportion to the de- gree of advancement of the ova. In some species, as in the Alytes obstetricans, of which C. Vogt has given an excellent descriptionf, it does not, when the ovum is mature, occupy more than a half of the surface ; but in the common frog and toad it covers so much of the surface of the yolk when it is about to leave the ovary, that the gray internal part is only seen as a defined round spot on the opposite side. In the undeveloped ovarian ova, however, the dark part is much more limited in its extent, thus allowing a greater part of the lighter-coloured internal part to be seen. Fig. 64 *. Ovum of the Frog. a. {From Newport.} An ovum of the frog half an hour after impregnation, covered with its gelatinous mass. The dark part of the egg or yolk is seen to be surrounded by a vitelline membrane. Sperma- tozoa were seen everywhere in the gelatinous en- velope, but are not represented in the figure. b. Vertical section of the yolk or ovarian ovum of the frog which has been hardened in alcohol, showing the germinal vesicle within and the canal of the yolk which leads down to it from the upper or germinal pole. The external line indicates the vitelline membrane. c. Diagrammatic representation of the same sec- tion, showing, according to the views of Ransom, the relation of the canal or depression of the yolk to the germinal vesicle. The micropyle, if it exists in these ova, may be situated in the vitelline membrane immediately above this canal. This figure also shows the relations of the dark and light coloured parts of the yolk substance. f Entwickelungsg. der Geburtshoelferkrote, Solo- thurn, 1842.