UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 668 sions, which furnish the sole opportunities for ceptible of impregnation after it has escaped impregnation, bear the same constant relation from the ovary. The period of susceptibility to menstruation that the acts of ovulation and in the mammalia generally is variable. In the the times of conception in the mammalia bear bitch, as already stated (p. 606.), the ovum, to the oestrus, it becomes necessary to exa- after quitting the ovary, is supposed to re- mine more closely the grounds of this belief; main in the tube during six or eight days. Its and for this purpose the circumstances as yet passage is probably quite completed in ten ascertained regarding the times of conception days. In the guinea-pig the period is much in women, the condition of their ovaries, not shorter, as the ovum enters the uterus at the only during menstruation but in the intervals end of the third day. In the rabbit also the pe- also, and the actual relation which the oestrus, riod does not extend beyond the beginning of or period of conception in mammals, bears to the fourth day. But by the time that the ovum menstruation, may be briefly passed in review, reaches the uterus,or sometimes even thelower The precise period at which conception in end of the oviduct, in most of the mammalia the human subject occurs in most cases cannot, yet observed, the oestrus is past, and with it for obvious reasons, be determined, but when- also the opportunity for impregnation. The ever conception can be traced to a single op- evidence therefore obtainable from the mam- portunity, the process of impregnation, or the malia fails to support the conjecture, that in fertilisation of the ovum by contact with the man an ovum detached during menstruation spermatozoa, may be assumed to take place can remain susceptibleof impregnation through within a few hours after the act of insemina- the whole of a menstrual interval, consisting tion ; for the spermatic fluid rapidly traverses of twenty-three or more days, although the the generative canal, while here spermatozoa period of this susceptibility may be longer in cease to have motion within thirty hours at man than in the other examples cited, latest from the time of emission. But if this first hypothesis fails, the second From various methods of computation it is appears inevitable, viz., that an ovum emitted supposed that in a large majority of cases con- during menstruation loses its susceptibility of ception occurs during the first half of a men- impregnation before the termination of the strual interval, and most commonly during the succeeding menstrual interval. M. Pouchet first week. In sixteen instances noted by supposes, that in the human subject the dura- Raciborski conception occurred as late as the tion of this susceptibility does not exceed four- tenth day after menstruation in only one teen days. Consequently if, according to the case.* strict formula of the latter physiologist, ova are The number of instances in which con- emitted only at or shortly after the menstrual ception can be ascertained, or may be fairly periods, there must remain a portion of each assumed, to have taken place in the latter half menstrual interval, during which every woman of a menstrual interval is comparatively small, is physically incapable of conception. And Nevertheless impregnation may unquestionably this alternative M. Pouchet* does not hesitate occur during this time, and even within a day to adopt. or two of the next menstrual flow, which is But since this conclusion is incompatible then usually diminished in duration and quan- with the facts already stated regarding the tity, or is reduced to a mere show. occasional, though probably rare occurrence of Now if we endeavour to explain these facts, conception during the latter portion of a men- relating to the times of conception, by the aid strual interval, and especially towards its con- of an ovular theory of menstruation, the ques- elusion, M. Coste, who shares with many tion may be brought within very narrow limits, others a belief in these facts, has proposed an One of two postulates may be assumed. An explanation which constitutes a very con- ovum emitted at or soon after a menstrual siderable modification of the ovular theory of period either remains susceptible of impreg- menstruation. To account for impregnation nation through the whole of the succeeding at a later period than usual of a menstrual in- interval, or it loses that susceptibility, and terval, M. Coste supposes that a ripe or dis- perhaps perishes before the recurrence of the tended Graafian follicle, having failed in reach- next menstrual flow. ing the point of rupture, may remain stationary, The first hypothesis would sufficiently as it sometimes does in mammals f, and that account for impregnation taking place at any the influence of the male is sufficient to de- part of a menstrual interval ; but it has little termine the dehiscence of a follicle in such a or no evidence for its support. Nothing, in- state. And in order to anticipate the obvious deed, is known regarding the length of time objection, that if the emission of an ovum from during which the human ovum remains sus- the ovary is the cause or occasion of menstrua- * These and similar facts have been commonly regarded as showing a greater aptitude for concep- tion shortly after menstruation; but the influence of mere opportunity has not perhaps been sufficiently considered; for if, as in the case of the Jews under the strict requirements of the Levitical law, the whole of the first week, or that period which is commonly regarded as most favourable to concep- tion, be withdrawn from the opportunities for im- pregnation, no diminution whatever of prolific power results. * Theorie Positive. — M. Pouchet believes that a slender decidua is always formed at the decline of each menstruation, which, together with the ovum, whenever the latter is not impregnated, is cast oft' from the uterus between the tenth and fourteenth day, and that after this event every woman remains incapable of conception until the next menstrual period, when the detachment of another ovum from the ovary renews her capacity for impregnation. t For a fuller statement of this view, with illus- trative examples, see p. 568.