205 PELVIS. Whether these pelves and those mentioned by Rokitansky are not similar to those de- scribed by Naegele as arrest of development of one side of the first sacral bone, is a question which can only be decided by ab- solute comparison of the specimens. A greater or more advanced development of one side of the pelvis than the other is said by Knox, in a memoir " On the Statistics of Hernia," to be frequently seen, and to pro- duce a greater predisposition to hernia on that side. The author considers it as the result of a similar want of balance between the development of the lateral halves of the pelvis to that seen, in a greater degree, in the "pelvis oblique ovata," and which is also often seen between that of the true and false pelvis. Pelvis obstructed by exostosis.— Exostoses projecting from the pelvic bones most usually proceed from their internal surfaces, in which position they are also of more serious im- portance in producing obstruction to parturi- tion in the female. According to Ramsbotham, it is a rare condition of the pelvis, he having never seen an instance. Exostoses are most frequently found at the back part of the pelvic cavity, growing from the sacrum, near the sacro-iliac joint, or, according to Lever, at the last sacral piece. They are, however, by no means confined to these positions. Many instances of this disease have been recorded, in which the diagnosis has not been verified by post-mortem examination ; and it is doubtful whether many of them were not projections of the sacral promontory and lumbar vertebras, as in a case described by Nagel in the Frankfurter Zeitung (April, 1778). It has been observed in the male as well as in the female pelvis. One of the most remarkable cases of ex- ostosis of the sacrum, producing obstruction to parturition, occurred to Dr. Haber, and is recorded in Naegele's Inaugural Disser- tation, published at Heidelberg in 1830. The disease was said to have followed a fall while the woman was carrying a load on her head, and which was followed by pains in the back and pelvis. On afterwards becoming pregnant, the whole of the pelvic cavity was found to be filled by a bony tumour growing from the upper part of the sacrum. The Ca?sarian section was performed ; and the patient died soon afterwards. The tumour was found to be 7 inches long by 6 in. broad, reaching as high as the junction of the 3rd and 4th lumbar vertebras and as low as from about 2J lines from the apex of the sacrum. Between it and the posterior surface of the pubes there was a space of 8 or 10 lines in one part, but only a line and a half in another, the mass thus filling up nearly the whole of the pelvic brim. A section of the tumour showed large cells in the interior, communi- cating freely with the sacral areolae. Another remarkable case is recorded in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal (April, 1831), for which hysterotomy was performed by Dr. M'Kibbin, Surgeon to the Lying-in Hospital, Belfast. The patient had suffered a fall on the back when about six or eight years of age, which was followed by pains in the sacral region for a short time afterwards. The ex- ostosis was of a conical form, with the base at the sacrum (see Jig. 125.), and occupying its whole breadth at about the four lower sacral pieces, its apex projecting towards the pubis, and leaving a space of only inch between it and the lower part of the pubic Fig. 125. Exostosis of the sacrum. symphysis. The greatest space was left op- posite the superior ramus of the right pubis, where the distance of the tumour from the pubic wall was from 1^ to If inches, but di- minished posteriorly. The patient died soon after the operation ; nor was the child saved. A less formidable case came under Dr. Murphy's observation. The tumour was about the size of an orange, and was connected to the sacrum about its middle. It was quite immoveable, and of bony hardness. The pa- tient being in labour, craniotomy was per- formed ; and the case did well. Another case is recorded by Van Doevern, of an osseous tumour, of the size of half a hen's egg, grow- ing from the upper piece of the sacrum, and causing the death of both mother and child. Dr. Kyle, of Cologne, met with a case of a woman who had borne seven children with great ease; but at the eighth labour the foetal head became impacted by a hard immoveable tumour, as big as a hen's egg, springing from the upper part of the right, sacro-iliac joint, being apparently the result of a pelvic abscess after the last delivery, which had, three years before, opened in the groin. Dr. Lever has seen but one case of pelvic exostosis. It occurred in'an unmarried female lunatic, and grew from the posterior surface of the pubis, producing retention of urine.* Las- sus describes processes of bone, of a styloid shape, projecting from the posterior surface of the pubis towards the bladder.f These resulted, apparently, from ossification of the anterior ligaments of that viscus. Besides these, an exostosis is mentioned by Velpeau (Toco/ogie), protruding from the posterior surface of the right pubis, and of the size of a hen's egg a little flattened ; and others by Pinasus, Ruleau, and Portal, from an anky- losed symphysis pubis. One is alluded to by Naegele, which was as * Guy's Hospital Reports, No. 14, April, 1842. f Pathologie Chirurgicale (Paris, 1805, chap. 80.).