"FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Normal Anatomy). 60] which, however, during the middle period of life is usually of sufficient capacity to admit easily of the introduction of a moderate- sized catheter. The constriction which forms this aperture is not occasioned by any thickening nor other alteration of texture in the walls of the tube, so that after the parts have been laid open, it is often difficult to determine the exact seat of the previously existing orifice by any mark except that of a slight diminution in breadth of the walls at this spot. The Pavilion, or Infwndibidum consists of the expanded or trumpet-mouthed portion of the tube which lies between the orifice just described and the fringed margin in which the tube-walls actually terminate. No por- tion of the Fallopian tube is so variable in form and construction as this, and yet none is of such importance, for upon the peculiar construction of this part depends the special action of the oviduct in grasping the surface of the ovary, and receiving and conveying away the ovum. The representations which in illustrated works usually accompany the description of this part serve to give but a feeble notion of the beauty of its construction, apparently be- cause the advice of De Graaf, that their structure should be examined under water, has been commonly neglected. But without the support derived from a fluid of greater density than the atmosphere, the extremely delicate plicae and fringes with which the ex- panded mouthpiece of the tube is beset, col- lapse and exhibit nothing more than a ge- neral indication or outline of their true form. When thus examined, the pavilion in young and healthy subjects is observed to be funnel-shaped, and to have arranged upon its inner surface numerous folds and leaflets, which are merely continuations of the larger and smaller plica; lining the cavity of the tube. These folds, which are irregu- larly though often very closely set, con- verge towards the centre of the orifice of the tube, and in some cases appear by their pro- fusion almost to block up the entrance of the canal. The office of these folds is doubtless to receive and entangle the delicate ovum in one of the numerous channels which are formed between the sets of leaflets, and so to conduct it infallibly into the common orifice towards which they all converge. So great is the variety perceptible in the conformation of this structure in different sub- jects, that it would be difficult to find any two in which a precisely similar arrangement of parts obtained. Even in the same body there is often a material difference in the pavilion of the two sides. And these varieties are not attributable to mere individual pecu- liarities of form, but they appear to bear a certain relation to the age of the person in whom they are found*, and consequently to the period of functional activity or other- wise of the structures of which they form an importart part. Thus in young subjects, after the age of puberty, and in those who have borne few children, the pavilion exhibits that richness and profusion of folds and fringes which is represented in Jigs. 404. and 419. while in multipara} and those advanced in life a greater simplicity of form in this part is commonly observed ; but between these extremes every variety of arrangement may be observed. In the foetus, and in very young subjects, the margin of the pavilion is nearly evenly circular. This form is also seen in adults in those rare cases where the prolongation of one of the fimbria? along the tubo-ovarian Fig. 407. Portion of Fallopian tube from an adult. {After Richard.) a, external surface of the fimbria;; b, line of demarcation between the mucous and serous membranes ; cc, body of the tube; dd, tubo-ovarian ligament, presenting scarcely any trace of the fringes. ligament does not occur, but commonly the margin is uneven or scolloped, as shown in fig. 407. At this point, the opportunity occurs of examining an arrange ment of parts which is unique in the animal economy, viz., the con- junction of a serous with a mucous mem- brane. The line of junction of these two ., * Richard, These, Anatomie des Trompes de l Uterus chez la Femme. 1851.