PELVIS, the double sacral wedge had a small diameter directed forwards as well as downwards, in which case it would be prevented by the ilia from moving in that direction at all. Thus the pelvic supports of the trunk are a peculiar and admirable combination of the arch and the suspension bridge. Under heavy weights, the preparatory tension of the pelvic muscles, as the psoas, pyriformes, and great glutei, will, by more closely approximating the sacrum and ilia, produce the conditions of the arch. But in sudden shocks, the strain will fall more immediately upon the ligamentous suspensory structures, as the sacro-iliac, sacro- scialic, and ilio-lumbar ligaments, more calcu- lated, by their resiliency, to break their force gradually, and finally overcome them. The thick,strong, and elastic fibro-cartilagin- ous pads inserted between the opposing os- seous surfaces of the sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses may be mentioned also, as con- tributing to deaden and break the force of shocks passing through the pelvic arches; and these being generally, as wehave seen, arranged in two layers allowing of limited sliding motion between them, are better calculated to resist sudden shocks passing obliquely than single discs, such as the vertebral, which are chiefly disposed to resist pressure passing directly. The posterior projection of the iliac tubero- sities protects the sacrum, deeply situated be- tween them, from direct force tending to produce anterior dislocation, while their in- ternal direction prevents that bone from slip- ping backward between them. The great breadth and size of the sacrum in the human pelvis — it being proportionally larger than that of any other animal — indi- cate its importance as the basis of support to the spine, and the crown of the pelvic arch ; and, in connection with the admirable mecha- nical and architectural arrangements just de- scribed, present a wide contrast to the pelvic structures of animals ; and prove the erect position to have been designed for the habi- tual expression of the dignity of man. The thigh of man, when standing, forms one line with the trunk, and makes an obtuse angle with the posterior arm of the pelvic lever; but in quadrupeds it is directed much more for- wards, and forms an acute angle with both the ilia and the spine. In quadrupeds, the thighs are much closer together and more pressed upon the flanks, and, even when they rest on their haunches, they naturally support themselves on their fore legs. This is even seen to a great extent in the apes and monkeys, so difficult is it for them to maintain the centre of gravity in an erect posture. The extensors and flexors of the thigh on the pelvis are also more developed in man, in order to sustain with more firmness the erect posture. Hence the greater breadth of the hip and buttock, ami the bulk of the thigh. The breadth of the pelvis also gives a greater leverage to these powerful muscles. In walking, the human pelvis is thrown alternately, on each side, upwards, forwards, and sideways, as the leg on that side is lifted ; the trunk keeping its centre of gravity over the bearing leg by swaying regularly to that side, the pelvic hoop being at the same time drawn over the supporting leg by the powerful abducting muscles, the glutei. On account of the greater width of the pelvis and trochanters in the female, the centre of gravity oscillates through a greater space, and takes longer time to pass over from one leg to the other, and hence the greater amount of undulation in their gait, especially when running. Mechanism of the human pelvis in regard to parturition. — As a containing cavity, when completed by its muscular and fascial struc- tures, the pelvis offers a basin-shaped struc- ture with a somewhat triangular superior aperture, the sides of which are formed by the psoas muscles, and the base by the pubes; and with a moveable floor, formed by fascia; and the levator ani muscle, and perforated by the rectum and generative organs. Its walls are interrupted laterally by the sacro-sciatic and obturator foramina, which are filled by soft and yielding muscular and ligamentous struc- tures, and give way considerably to pressure from within, enlarging the pelvic diameters opposite to them. They afford, in common with the superior and inferior openings, the outlets for the nerves anil vessels passing from the lumbar and sacral plexuses and iliac trunks to the inferior extremities and peri- neum. The inferior outlet also transmits the external communications of the pelvic viscera. These are, the bladder supported by the pubis ; the rectum, supported by the sacrum and coccyx; and the internal organs of gene- ration placed between them. In the female these internal organs are more bulky than in the male, and consist of the uterus and its ovarian and vaginal appendages. That there is a relation between the greater size and the functions of these organs, and the greater extent of the female diameters, is evident from the consideration of their simul- taneous development at the period of puberty, and corresponding increase afterwards. This relative development of the pelvis seems to extend not only to sex, but to the varieties of mankind, cither as an irrespective consequence of primitive formative type, or in regard to the adaptability of the foetal head to the pelv is in the processes of parturition. In cither case this adaptation is .strikingly illus- trated by the different pelvic Ibrin.s prevailing in dilli rent races of men, which will be found, when considering that branch of our subject, to be markedly assimilated to the form of the skull. The pelvic bone, which is of the greatest importance in an obstetric point of view, entering as it does into the formation of both the pelvic brim, cavity, and inferior outlet, is the pubis; and deformities of this bone produce the greatest obstacles to par- turition. The sub-pubic arch is a peculiarity of the human species, it being only imper- fectly developed in the lower animals ; and it has an important bearing upon human par-