314 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. rent, as that curved line which unites the car- diac and pyloric apertures (a, fig. 245.). Fig, 245. Diagram to show the general direction of movement impressed on the semifluid food in the digesting stomach. a, real axis of the stomach, uniting its cardiac and pyloric apertures ; b, situation of the abnormal opening in St. Martin's case. (The arrows corre- spond to the peripherial current of advance, which is effected by peristalsis; and the central current of return, which is reflected from the preceding at the pylorus.) (2.) The observations of Dr. Beaumont are as follows*:—"The bolus, as it enters the cardia, turns to the left, passes the aperture, descends into the splenic extremity, and fol- lows the great curvature towards the pyloric end. It then returns in the course of the smaller curvature, makes its appearance again at the aperture in its descent into the great curvature, to perform similar revolutions. These revolutions are completed in from one to three minutes; the bulb of the thermometer invariably indicates the same movements." He is careful to add, that there is an admix- ture of the ingesta, which implies that the movement is not simply a revolution ; for that, if this were the case, " the central portions would retain their situation, until the outer or chymified part had passed into the duode- num."f Now in order to render the movement thus observed perfectly compatible with that above deduced, we have but to recollect the situation of the aperture from which the inspection of St. Martin's stomach was made. This was at the left extremity of the organ (b, Jig. 245.). Whence it is obvious, that any backward movement along the real axis (a), connecting the two orifices of the stomach, would be so near to the superior curved border, and so far from the point of view, that Dr. Beaumont could scarcely have avoided imputing to it the course which he has done. While, since every part of the stomach would be occupied by one or other of the two currents, the mutual interference of these at * Op. cit. p. 101. t This admixture he ascribes to a triturating or agitating motion, which is partly gastric, partly re- spiratory. But the existence of the circulating movement described sufficiently proves that this mixture was inherent to the process, and not (as his supposition would imply) a result of its disturb- ance. their borders must gradually cause an uniform diffusion of the various alimentary matters moving with them. And finally, the reflec- tion of one current into the other at the pylorus, insures an equal contact of all the semifluid food with the surface of the mucous membrane; since those portions of the in- gesta which occupy the axis of the stomach during one moment, are destined to move along its periphery during the next. 3. In the later stage of digestion, the move- ment seen in the Dog's stomach soon after death differs from the preceding. The cardiac extremity appears even less active than before; and the longitudinal shortening of the organ is also less marked. The chief visible commencement of contrac- tion is at the same place where it was for- merly increased, and where it now forms a deep constriction or hour-glass contraction. After this constriction has continued a short time, it sends onwards towards the pylorus a rapid peristalsis, which appears nearly to ob- literate the tube in its course, and ends by engaging the muscular ring of this valve. A slight relaxation closely follows this peristal- sis ; and is succeeded by a complete dilata- tion of the pyloric sac. Lastly, the hour- glass contraction itself sometimes disappears; and an interval of about two minutes precedes the repetition of the whole process. Often, however, the constriction remains until the peristalsis recommences. Dr. Beaumont's observations * again seem to supply the counterpart to this description. He states that, when chymification has ad- vanced, the motion is quicker. And on attempt- ing to pass a thermometer tube towards the pylorus, it is stopped by a stricture f, which is situated about three or four inches from this aperture. A forcible contraction is first per- ceived ; but in a short time, there is a gentle relaxation, when the bulb passes without dif- ficulty, and is then drawn forcibly towards the pyloric end for three or four inches. It is then released, and forced back with a spiral motion for the same distance, when it seems to be again obstructed by the stricture. But if pulled up through this, it moves freely in the cardiac portion, mostly inclining towards the splenic extremity. The repetition of the con- traction is preceded by an interval of about three minutes, during which the food revolves as in the previous stage. It is scarcely necessary to point out, that when the almost obliterated pyloric tube is filled by the tightly grasped thermometer bulb, no axial current can possibly be produced by the peristalsis. The pylorus having con- tracted, and its pouch relaxed, the contrac- tility of the whole organ would determine a rush of fluid around the bulb; and this would be reflected from the valve into the axis of the • Op. cit. pp. 102. 104. f The similar narrowing seen in the digesting stomach of animals has been called the " transverse band" ; a term which is objectionable, inasmuch as it implies the presence of a special structure that does not really exist.