OVUM. 40 mals, it is uncertain what becomes of its sub- stance. 7. In the greater number of animals the ovum acquires some additional parts, such as albumen, external coverings (shell, chorion &c), in its descent through the passages of the female parent after leaving the ovary ; in some animals an external covering corre- sponding with the chorion is already formed in the ovary. 8. When the spermatic substance of the male parent has come in contact with the ovum, so as to exert its peculiar fecundating influence upon its germinal part — an action which in a few animals occurs before, but in the greater number shortly after it has left the ovary — the first of the series of changes which follows, and is preparatory to laying the foundation of the new being, consists, in almost all animals, in a peculiar process of division, cleavage, or segmentation, which affects either the whole yolk, or a part of it, or that portion only in the vicinity of which the germinal vesicle has before been situated, and in which the rudiments of the embryo afterwards make their appearance. This sub- division proceeds continuously, till the whole germinal part of the yolk is reduced by it to a nearly uniform mass of corpuscles, or struc- tural elements of microscopic size, which ge- nerally occupy or are spread over more or less of the surface of the yolk mass within the vitelline membrane. 9. The rudiments of the embryo, and its accompanying organised structures in the ovum, when such exist, are first formed in the centre of a layer of nucleated organised cells, named by Pander Blastoderm or ger- minal membrane, the formation of which re- sults more or less directly from the process of segmentation above referred to. The dis- appearance of the germinal vesicle when the ovarian ovum arrives at maturity, the influence of fecundation acting about the same time, the process of yolk-segmentation which im- mediately follows the latter change, and only occurs as a consequence of fecundation, and the formation of the germinal membrane or blastodermic layer of cells, in which the seg- mentation results, are successive phenomena of change in a fruitful ovum, which undoubtedly stand in some very immediate and close re- lation to each other; but the exact nature of that relation is still involved in some degree of obscurity. In some animals the process of yolk-segmentation seems either in itself to be a process of rapid cell-formation, or to be accompanied by it; while in other animals (chiefly those highest in the scale), the seg- mentation is only the immediate prelude to the generation of the true nucleated cells, which afterwards constitute the blastoderm. 10. The centre of foetal development is co- incident with the place of the germinal vesicle in the mature egg, and with the centre of the blastodermic layer of cells ; and it would ap- pear, also, that the principal axis of the em- bryo is coincident with the iine of first division of the germinal part of the yolk in the com- mencement of segmentation : but it is yet undecided what part the germinal vesicle or its nucleus or macula more immediately take in the segmenting process, or in the origina- tion of the true embryo-cells ; and in the higher animals, at least, it is still uncertain whether or not these embryo-cells are the direct progeny or descendants of the germinal vesicle, or its nucleus. The germ spot, the centre of the first segmentation, and the centre of embryonic formation, constitute, therefore, a constant point in all animals, which may be termed the germinal centre of the ovum. Division of the Ova of Animals into Grou]>s. — Although the researches of modern ovo- logists thus enable us to assert with confi- dence the general similarity of structure in the ova of animals, and to point out general features of correspondence in the phenomena which they exhibit in their first origin, pro- gress to perfection, and conversion into the rudiments of the new being ; yet it must be admitted that very important differences are also to be observed among various ova, more especially when they have reached a state of maturity. In what has previously been af- firmed, therefore, of the similarity of animal ova, it is to be understood that uniformity of a general kind only is implied; and even that correspondence is demonstrated not so im- mediately, in many instances, by the examina- tion of the fully formed ova, as by their careful comparison, at different stages of their growth, and more especially in their earlier condi- tions. The more important of these differences are those which are related to the nature of the germinal portion of the ovum, as com- pared with the rest of its parts; and a con- sideration of these differences, in so far as they have yet been observed, appears to lead to a division of the ova of animals into three principal groups, as follows : — First group. — In a certain number of ani- mals, some of which are viviparous, others ovi- parous, the ovum is for the most part of proportionally small, size, sometimes very mi- nute, as compared with the full-grown parents, and of very simple structure ; the yolk sub- stance is entirely composed of elementary granules, or minute and simple spherules ; the process of segmentation affects the whole mass of the yolk, and the germinal or blasto- dermic layer, resulting from that segmentation extends from the first over the whole surface of the ovum ; the whole of this layer con- tributes at once to the formation of the rudi- ments of the embryo and its accompanying organised structures ; the whole yolk, or ovu- luin, in fact, is germinal, or is converted into the parts of the future embryo. Such is the nature of the ovum in mammalia, and among the Invertebrata, in most Mollusca, Entozoa, Echinoderniata, Acalephae, Polypes, and a considerable number of other tribes. Second group. — In another set of animals, the great majority of which are oviparous, the ova are proportionally of the largest size ; the yolk substance consists very obviously of