OVUM. [S2J but in some animals, in which the vesicles are proportionately more expanded, they extend beyond the general line of the surface in various places, and even sometimes give the ovary somewhat of the mammillated or grape- like appearance more common among ovipa- rous animals. The follicle is filled to distension with a clear albuminous fluid, which escapes with force when an incision is made through the Fig. 55*. Ovarian ovum of ihe Dog. (From Bischoff.) a, magnified representation of the ovarian ovum of the dog, nearly mature, situated in the discus proligeras and part of the cells of the granular membrane; b, several detached granular cells. _ d, another ovarian ovum of the same animal perfectly ripe, immediately previous to the rupture of the Graafian follicle ; the cells of the proligerous disc have hecome of a pediculated shape; c, some of these cells detached. e, the ovum from the same specimen as in Jig. a, freed artificially from the granular cells of the disc, showing externally the thick clear zona or external membrane, and internally the opaque yolk substance: in the latter the germinal vesicle is obscured by the opacity of the substance sur- rounding it. /, the same ovum burst by pressure, showing the contents of the ovum which have escaped, viz. the finely granular yolk substance and the germinal vesicle with its macula. membrane. Close to the inner surface of the follicle, and surrounding the fluid, is situated the layer of nucleated granular cells which has been termed tunica or membrana granulosa, from the opaque granular appearance of the cells composing it. These cells form a com- plete vesicular lining of the follicle; but throughout the greater part they cohere with only a moderate degree of firmness, so that the membrane readily tears when the follicle is opened. The minute ovum is imbedded in a thicker portion of this layer, the cumulus or dis- cus proligerus of Von Baer, and is almost in- variably situated close to the inner surface of the most projecting part of the Graafian follicle (see jig. 54*. a. and c, mg.) where in some animals, but not in the human ovary, the ovum may be detected in the undissected fol- licle through its coats and the ovarian cover- ings. The cells of the membrana granulosa are in general about Tr-iws" m diameter. They adhere with considerable firmness to the surface of the zona ; so that when the follicle is opened and its contents are allowed to run upon a plate of glass for examination, the ovum is always found placed in its disc in a circum- scribed attached portion of the membrana granulosa of about twice its own diameter. The ovum is itself of a nearly perfect sphe- rical form when freed from pressure ; but as it lies thus imbedded in the membrana granulosa, and moistened on a plate of glass, it gives rise to a slight rounded elevation in that membrane, which may easily be detected with the naked eye when the specimen is viewed sideways. When the contents of the Graafian follicle are discharged naturally during life, a small aperture occurs nearly in the centre of the most projecting part of the wall of the follicle ; and as the ovum lies near this place in the membrana granulosa, it is liable to be evacuated first, along with a portion of that membrane, which is soon torn away from the rest by the pressure of the fluid behind it, impelled by the contraction of the walls of the follicle and surrounding ovarian substance. During the descent of the ovum through the Fallopian tube the cells of the proligerous disc immediately surrounding the ovum alter their form, and are subsequently detached from the zona, so as to leave its external surface quite free and smooth. I have not, any more than Bischoff, been able to observe the four retaining straps or retiriacula described by Martin Barry in his first series of Researches, as portions of the membrana granulosa na- turally thicker than the rest, and which, radiating nearly at right angles from the pro- ligerous disc, serve, as it were, to guide the ovum and its disc towards the aperture by which it escapes on the bursting of the fol- licle. The accompanying figure from Coste (56*.) gives that author's view of a structure somewhat similar to the retinacula of Barry. The size of the mammiferous ovum itself is much more uniform among the different families of Mammalia than that of the Graafian follicle,