STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 316 the obstructed canal, faeces pass through it from the duodenum with equal facility, al- though the stomach soon resents their pre- sence by vomiting;—an act which seems generally to imply a shut pylorus. And Magendie* has observed, that the gases of this upper portion of the intestine can be made to pass the valve with equal facility ; while those distending the stomach excite its contraction. Under ordinary circumstances, whatever be the period during which the contents of the stomach sojourn in its cavity, or the movements they experience at this time, they are finally propelled onwards into the duo- denum. Sometimes, however, they take a backward course ; and pass through the oesophagus, to re-enter the mouth, and be expelled from this cavity. Such a reversal of their normal direction occurs in the acts of eructation, regurgitation, and vomiting. These acts, however they may differ in their details, must (d priori) agree in the conditions of their oc- currence. They require a relaxation of the cardia, a closuref of the pylorus, and a com- pression of the stomach. The latter of these three requirements may either be the result of the contractions of the organ itself, or may be effected by an external or independent pressure. In simple eructation or belching, part of the gaseous contents of the stomach are ejected from the mouth. This act generally occurs towards the close of digestion, and in dyspeptic individuals ; the quantities of gas thus evolved being often very considerable. In what way the cardia is opened, or how far the evolution of large quantities of these aeri- form fluids in the stomach may not contribute to render it patulous, is at present very doubt- ful. But the intermittent character of the occurrence certainly looks unlike a mere leak- age of an aeriform fluid. While the frequency with which the human stomach contains gases, and the completeness with which the cardia resists their expulsion in vivisected animalsf, increase the difficulty of such a supposition, and, so far, tend to confirm that of a tem- porary relaxation of this aperture. The di- rect agent of the expulsive act seems equally uncertain. The contractions of the stomach seem quite sufficient to account for it. And there is certainly no violent abdominal pres- sure. But such mobile fluids would scarce require a remarkable effort. While, as far as can be judged, the act appears to coincide with the period of expiration. An examination of that voluntary eructa- tion which most persons can accomplish, may perhaps strengthen the conjecture, that some * Op. cit. p. 83. t Of course this closure need only be comparative: that is, the mere resistance of the contents of the stomach to compression would suffice to determine their passage through the more relaxed of its two orifices. X As in Magendie's observations, elsewhere al- luded to. slight abdominal pressure is a constituent of the ordinary act. Here, by a kind of twitch- ing * action of the oesophagus, which is ac- companied by a sensation that is referred to the upper portion of this tube, air is intro- duced into its interior; and is then expelled, with a considerable sound, by a well-marked movement of expiration, during which the glottis appears to be at least partially closed. And the expulsion of the air artificially intro- duced is often accompanied by that of a por- tion which was previously contained in the stomach itself. So that involuntary and vo- luntary eructation may be said to merge into each other.+ In the act of regurgitation, more or less of the liquid contents of the stomach are returned into the mouth. This act closely resembles the preceding, of which it often appears to be an accidental complication ; — a small portion of liquid being carried upwards, along with an eructation of gas. In other instances, how- ever, the liquid is unaccompanied by elastic fluid; and rises so quietly, that it is only per- ceived on reaching the fauces and back of the tongue, where its acid taste causes it to be at once recognized. It is probable that the pro- cess which effects this expulsion is similar to that of eructation. If we could conjecture any difference, it would be, that the abdominal pressure plays a less important part. The act of vomiting differs from both of the preceding : not only in the miscellaneous character of the matters which it can expel from the stomach, and in the greater energy with which it is effected; but also in the fact, that a pressure extrinsic to the organ itself here forms what is, at any rate, the chief agent of the process. This abdominal pressure, which has been before alluded to, we shall now proceed to describe. In those ordinary movements of respiration which are executed chiefly by the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, the bulk or capacity of the belly is little affected. For during the act of inspiration, the descent or contraction of the former, exactly coincides with the relax- ation of the latter muscular structures ; while during that of expiration, the compression which these exercise is neutralized by the re- cession or ascent of the now relaxed dia- phragm. Hence the moveable viscera of the belly themselves evade all pressure; and merely transfer a very slight force from the anterior to the upper wall of the cavity, or vice versa. But if, while the diaphragm re- mains depressed and contracted, the abdo- * This is often called a deglutition of air, although the movement is utterly unlike that of swallowing. | Thus the dyspeptic poor who crowd the out- patient rooms of hospitals, sometimes eructate so voluntarily, and even ostentatiously, that the act really seems to be done, not so much to expel gas from an over-distended stomach—as to attract com- miseration. And it is said that, in polite Chinese circles, a chorus of eructations at the end of a banquet formally acquaints the host with the re- pletion of his grateful guests.