OVUM. 70 The cicatricula of the unfecundated egg, such as is laid by fowls secluded from the cock, differs from that now described princi- pally in the absence of the marked dis- tinction between the central clear and the peripheral opaque part. The germinal ve- sicle, which to all appearance remains the same in the ovary till the yolk leaves the ovarian capsule, is now no longer to be seen; and the cicatricula is often marked irregularly throughout, but more especially towards the circumference, with clearer intervals, or small irregular circular or oval spaces, mingled with the opaque substance of the disc. I have, not, however, had the means in more recent times of making a sufficiently careful exami- nation of the cicatricula in this condition to enable me to state more minutely in what respects it differs from that of the fecundated eSS- . In the ovarian yolk, while still within its capsule, a white spot corresponding to the cicatricula also exists, and occupies the same place in relation to the yolk cavity and canal. Its structure and appearance, however, are somewhat different from that of the true cica- Fig.5]. Cicatricula, and its contents, in the ovarian egg of the Fowl. A. A square portion of the surface of the ripe ovarian yolk, showing the vitelline disc or cicatncula, with the germinal vesicle in the centre, magnified about six diameters. b. Lateral view of the same, to show the con- vexity produced by the thickness of the disc round the germinal vesicle. c. Vertical diagrammatic section of the same; m, vitelline membrane; d, granular disc; g, germinal vesicle. d. e, f. Germinal vesicles more highly magnified; d, from a yolk of about one tenth of an inch dia- meter, showing scattered globules or germinal spots; e, from a nearly ripe yolk, quite clear; f, from another of the same period, exhibiting a turbid or minutely granular mass from the action of water. tricula of the egg which has passed through the oviduct; it is covered by a layer of closely set nucleated cells which lie below the vitel- line membrane ; it contains the germinal vesicle in its centre, and, instead of being thinnest towards the middle, the mass of its granular substance is accumulated in greater quantity in that part round and below the germinal vesicle, and thins gradually off towards the margin. Nevertheless, its much lighter colour than the surrounding part of the yolk makes it always easy to distinguish it. Its margin, however, is not so well marked as that of the true cicatricula; for the opaque whitish sub- stance seems there gradually to pass into or be continuous with the most superficial layer of cells covering the yolk. To this ovarian representative of the cicatricula, Von Baer has given the name of stratum proligemm. It is also somewhat smaller than that of the laid egg. It is usually to be found on that part of the yolk which is next the ovary, which, as the yolk hangs within its capsule in the usual attitude of the bird, will be upper- most, and for the most part is situated close to the pedicle of the ovarian capsule. This position is not, however, a constant one ; for sometimes the cicatricula is seen on the sides of the yolk, or towards the stigmatic band of the capsule, but rarely, it would appear, towards the ends or poles of the yolk. The cicatricula may generally be perceived on the surface of the yolk when the outer- most layers of the capsule have been re- moved, and the germinal vesicle can be distin- guished in it shining through the inner layer of the capsule and the vitelline membrane. It is placed close below the nucleated cells which line the latter, and adheres along with them somewhat to its inner surface; so that in gene- ral, it is easiest to remove this disc along with a portion of the vitelline membrane* when it is desired to obtain it for separate and more mi- nute observation by transmitted light. The vitelline membrane being cut round with scis- sors at a short distance from the margin of the disc, the parts are floated off in water or serum, and then may readily be separated with a little careful manipulation. The germinal vesicle, or vesicle of Pur- kinje, may always be seen with the unassisted eye, with a good light, in the centre of the ovarian cicatricula, or proligerous disc, in all ripe ovula, and in most of those which are above a tenth of an inch in diameter. It constitutes there a well-defined shaded cir- cular spot, from ?iy to ^ of an inch in diameter. When the proligerous disc alone has been removed "for observation and laid on a flat surface, and viewed somewhat from the side, or when the granules are torn asunder with needles, so as to make a partial section of it without removing or bursting the ger- minal vesicle, it is easy to perceive that the middle part, containing the vesicle, is more elevated than the rest; and that, although the substance of the disc seems to pass quite smoothly or evenly from the sides over the germinal vesicle, the granules of the disc en- velope the vesicle only slightly, and none cover its middle part: the vesicle, there- fore, is set, as it were, in a depression of the disc, which fits round and overlaps its margins, and a considerable thickness of gra- nular substance is continued in the disc below the vesicle. (See Jig. 51, in section). If we select for examination the most ad- vanced yolk of the ovary, which, in a hen laying daily, or almost daily, would probably have