PELVIS. 157 are mo* united in a crest. The ilia approach out almost directly inwards, forming an ilio- in shape to those of the Tapir, being in a less pubic angle of about 130° to 140°. The marked degree T-shaped ; the posterior limb of the iliac wings projecting inwards as far as the sacral spines; the anterior superior spine often presenting an epiphysis, and the shaft being long and blade-like. The ischia are comparatively long, and much more slender than in the Ruminants, being placed nearly parallel with the coccygeal vertebra, and with prolonged tuberosities. The pubes are small and short, and directed a little forwards, as well as downward and inward, with a marked ilio-pectineal eminence, and a very long ischio- pubic symphysis. The sciatic notch is wide, and the obturator foramen small. The an- terior outlet is large and squarish, and the posterior elongated vertically and somewhat diamond shaped. Lumbo-iliac angle rather larger than that of the Tapir, being about ilio-pectineal spine is much marked in Red 130°; ilio-ischial, 145°; and the ilio-pubic about deer. Generally the ischia form part of the 130°; making the lumbo-pubic rather less than elongated symphysis (/). a right angle. In the Ox, the symphysis is not placed quite In the Ruminantia the sacrum is composed parallel to the spine, as is usually the case in generally of four vertebrae, the two upper the inferior animals ; but is placed obliquely, articulating with the ilia. In the Gazelle and as in the human species, diverging more from Antelope, however, there are five, and in the the spine at the anterior than at the posterior common Stag only three. The sacrum is pro- extremity, and forming with it an angle of portionably broad, and more arched, both about 20°, anil causing the anterior opening to longitudinally and laterally, than in the pre- be larger than the posterior {see Jig. 97./). ceding orders. The sacral promontory is also The anterior opening is large and roundish, better marked,and the sacro-lumbar angle more with a prevalence of the antero-posterior perceptible. In the Ox, especially, this reaches diameter. The posterior opening is more to about 145° to 150°, and in the Fallow-deer square, but irregular and looking much up- 100°. The sacral spines are coalesced in a wards. perfect crest in the Ox, Fallow-deer, and Stag The ischio-pubic portion of the pelvis is (Jig. 90. a), anil partially in the gigantic Irish altogether very long, and opposed to the coc- deer, Gnu, and Equine antelope; not so in cygeal vertebra?. In Deer, Goats, and Ru- the Giraffe and Camel. The caudal vertebrae minants generally, but especially in the Ox, are numerous. the gradual upward curve of the ischia, and The iUa are long, with the crest (c) concave, the well-marked dorsal projection of their and the alae expanding laterally at the top, tuberosities, cause them to appear promi- especially in the heavier Ruminants; being nently on the rump, projecting on each side concave internally, and convex externally, and above the coccygeal vertebra; (Jigs. 9G, and projecting much over the dorsal surface and 97. e.) In the Ox the ilio-ischial angle is as of the spinal column, by the flattened and much as 130°; and the lumbo-iliac angle being elongated posterior superior spine (6). They about 150°, the acetabula are thereby placed form little of the abdominal parictcs, and directly under the last bone of the sacrum, and are placed on the spine at an angle of at the apex of an inverted arch (c de) formed 140° to 150°. The ischia are long and large, by the ischium and ilium. By this elevation of and placed on the ilia at an angle (c d e) of the ischia, the sacro-sciatic ligaments become about 1.50° in the Deer and Sheep tribes, but a means of support to the sacrum, as well as much less in the heavier animals. This in- the sacro-iliac, and thus that hone becomes creased length and size of the ischia is parti- suspended between two curved springs, formed cularly marked in the Deer tribe ; and, as by the ilio-ischion on each side, fulfilling the same mechanical requirements for Thus in these animals the sacro-sciatic liga- affording a long and strong hold for the power- ments resist motion of the sacrum in a di- ful extensor group of pelvic muscles, allies them rection downwards and forwards, a direction with the Carnivora, and other springing totally contrary to those of the human pelvis, animals afterwards to be considered. as considered in the section relating to the The large and flattened tuberosities (e) mechanism of that structure. And this change project much on the dorsal surface of the of function, so simply transitionary, results pelvis. This is especially seen in the Fallow- from the alteration of mechanical require- deer, common Stag, and Ox, with a well- ments in the quadrupedal position of the marked lateral tubercle (g), which is also pre- trunk. About the period of parturition, the sent in the Gazelle and Roebuck. They sacrum of the Ox is said to sink evidently present no ischial spine, except in the Lama, between the ilia and ischial tuberosities, by where it is well marked. The pubes are very relaxation of these ligaments. The elevation short and slender, and are directed from with- of the ischial tuberosities doubtless would Pelvis of the Stag, lateral view.