547 OVARY — (Normal Anatomy). N N 2 a much earlier period than that at which the power of procreation ceases in the other sex. In a physiological sense, therefore, the uterus, as well as every other part of the generative apparatus, must be regarded as an appendage of the ovary ; and the title " Ute- rus and its Appendages" is employed, in ac- cordance with ordinary usage only, as the heading of this Article, in which it is pro- posed to consider the structure and func- tions of the entire female generative organs as they exist in Man.* OVARY. Normal Anatomy. (Syn. Ovarium, Testis Mulicbris, Lat. ; Ovaja, Ital. j Ovaire, Fr.; Eierstock, Germ.; Eijerstok, Dutch.) The ovaries (Jig. 368. b, b) constitute two follicular glands appropriated to the formation of the female generative element. They are perfectly closed, resembling in this respect the ductless glands. Each, however, is furnished with its proper excretory duct, (fig. 368. c, c) between which and the gland a temporary connection is established, at certain intervals, during that period of life over which the re- productive faculty extends. Form. — The ovary is not usually fully de- veloped until some time after the establish- ment of puberty. It is then of an oval form Fig. 369. c Ovarii of a young adult virgin before the surface lias become scarred bij repeated discliargcs of ova. (Ad Nat.) a, distal, and b, proximal extremity; c, superior, and d, inferior border. In the centre is laid open a Graafian follicle from which an ovum had recently escaped by spontaneous rupture. (fig. 368. b, and fig. 369.), flattened on its sides, and somewhat resembling the testis in figure, but rarely or never, in a state of health, attaining to the full size of that organ. The following division may be made of its * For the comparative anatomy, as well as for the general treatment of the subject of generation, the reader is referred to the articles, Generation, organs of ; Generation ; and to those descrip- tive, of the different classes and orders of the animal kingdom throughout this Cyclopaedia. The oc- casional introduction here of illustrations from com- parative anatomy and physiology is employed for the purpose of elucidating those questions which cannot be clearly explained by observations made only upon the human subject. superficies: viz., into two sides, situated anteriorly and posteriorly with regard to the body ; two extremities, outer and inner; and two borders, superior and inferior. Of the two sides, that which is directed anteriorly (fig. 370. e) is both shorter and less Fig. 370. Vertical section of ovary. (Ad Nat.) The posterior surface,/, more rounded than the anterior, e ; at h are numerous blood-vessels divided ; gg, Graafian vesicles; d, place of entrance of vessels between the layers of the broad ligament. convex than the posterior, which is generally rounded and gibbous (fig. 370. f). In this respect the ovary resembles the uterus, whose posterior surface is always more rounded than the anterior; by attention to this pecu- liarity the right ovary may be readily distin- guished from the left after these organs have been detached from the uterus. Of the two extremities, the outer or distal (jSg.369.and/Jg. 372.a) is usually rounded and bulbous, whilst the inner(figs. 369. and372. 6) becomes gradually attenuated until its outline is merged in the proper ligament (fig. 368. pi) by which the ovary is attached to the uterus. The upper and lower borders also differ from each other. The former (fig. 369. c) is con- vex, and forms a segment of a circle, whose diameter is continually diminishing as age advances. The latter is straight or slightly concave, constituting the base of the ovary, or the line by which it is connected to the posterior duplicaturc of the broad ligament (figs. 369. and 370. d). Dimensions and Weight. — The ovary of a healthy adult measures from \" to 2" in length, from 6"' to 12'" in depth or perpen- dicular diameter, and from 3'" to 6W in width or transverse diameter. These dimensions, which vary considerably in different individuals, exhibit a much wider range when the observations are extended to different epochs of life. The organ is then found to undergo far more remarkable changes in bulk and figure than are observable in the corresponding male organ. The following table, giving the highest, lowest, and mean dimensions of twelve healthy ovaries, taken indiscriminately from women in various conditions during the period of fer- tility, will serve to exemplify the first of these variations : —