RESPIRATION. 285 one on either side of a fibrous partition. A plane of vessels disposed in such a manner can only receive the influence of the aerating element on one side. This fact constitutes a real anatomical distinction between the lung of a reptile and that of a mammal. In this latter case the partitions of the cells are composed only of a single stratum, both sides of which are exposed to the air. By this simple mechanical provision the amount of the respiratory agency is everywhere doubled. In the structure of the reptilian lung the elastic fibre forms a predominant element. It is a substitute for ribs and other accessory apparatus of breathing. The lungs of the frog, relatively to the cubic capacity of their interior, present a much more extensive active surface than those of the Salaman- dridse. Thus the purpose of "the cells" is fulfilled, of multiplying the operative surface. The "septa" project from the sides into the interior of the organ. In this respect they may be likened to the gills of fishes ; for, like the latter, " they penetrate the surround- ing medium." The lungs of ophidian rep- tiles are generally composed of true unsym- metrical, long cylindrical or fusiform sacs, extending from the pharynx far into the cavity of the abdomen, above the other viscera, and surrounded with the serous lining of that cavity. They are capable of con- taining a considerable quantity of air, which, when driven out with force, produces the " hiss" peculiar to the serpent. In some ge- nera, as the coluber, typhlops and vipera, the lung of one side only is developed ; in others, as the boa and python, the two lungs are sym- metrically or equally developed. The lungs, in these families, communicate, by means of a long and narrow trachea, surrounded by incomplete cartilaginous " rings," with the back part of the tongue. In all ophidia, the lungs display internally, but only on the anterior and upper parts, an elaborate system of alveoli or cells, more like secondary lungs than air-cells. The posterior two thirds of the internal superficies are almost plane, or devoid of" cells," like the lung of the newt. The alveoli, traced from before backwards, become shallower and shallower, until at length they disappear. It thus appears that the serpent may store up in its lung a con- siderable volume of air which, slowly passing out over the vascular air-cells, prevents the carbonic acid, the effete product of the pro- cess, from contaminating the whole contents of the organ. Each " alveolus," separately examined by vertical section, is found to communicate by a single opening with the general chamber of the lung. Traced inwards, it divides and subdivides into secondary and tertiary tiers of "alveoli," each cell being isolated by dissepiments of which the struc- ture is identical with those of the frog's lung already described. Each cell is a separate cavity. It does not communicate with those adjacent by openings in the septa. These septa are utilised in the outspreading of the vascular rcte. Each septum, us in the frog, carries two layers of capillary blood-vessels, separated from each other and supported by an intermediate stratum of elastic tissue. In the mechanism of breathing, this tissue enacts an important office. Over the interior of the ophidian lung, like the batrachian, the ciliated epithelium is limitedly distributed. The true capillary areas which chiefly co- incide with the flat sides and bottoms of the cells are clothed only with' hyaline epithelium.' Everywhere throughout the interior of the lung, along the courses of the larger vessels, the borders of cells, or along lines of thick- ened tissue, the phenomenon of ciliary vibra- tion may be readily detected. It is thus evi- dent that the office of cilia is mechanical, if not to cause determinate currents in the air, at least in the halitus and fluid which, by accumulating, may obstruct the respiratory function of the capillary areas. In the boa and python the length of the left lung is generally less by a third or half than that of the opposite side ; but in coluber, crotalus and others, it is much smaller and quite rudimentary, appearing as little more than an obliterated appendage. The genera Ccccilia and Amphisbana have the left pulmo- nary organ developed, and the right short- ened : this arrangement probably varies ac- cording to the species. Vipers and other serpents possess only a single lung, which on that account is very long. The lungs of the saurian rcjililes conform in character to those of the ranidce and salamandridce. They are elongated sacs, cellulated internally. They extend far back along the roof of the abdominal cavity. Like those of the ophi- dians, they are divisible into a cellulated and smooth or non-cellulated portion. The former is limited to the upper and anterior half of the organ ; the latter to the inferior wall and posterior half. There may be a mechanical reason in this peculiar distribu- tion of parts. The cells in the lungs of the saurians exhibit none of the regularity so characteristic of those of the ophidians. They are larger and more irregular. The partitions of the cells are more slender and more de- licately membranous. The whole interior of the lungs in the higher saurians is multiplied into cells. An axis without definite walls, like a trachea, runs from one end of the organ to the other, as is the case in the lung of the turtle. From either side of this axis, large orifices lead to the more subdivided portions, or secondary and tertiary air-chambers. On the contrary, each lung in Scincus officinalis forms a single continuous cavity ; but the entire surface of the parietes is cellulated by small projecting reticulate septa. The internal dorsal and anterior half of the lung of the chameleon is, as usual in the sauria, minutely cellulated. Further back the cells become larger, and the septa smaller, until at the posterior part the walls consist only of plane membrane both less vascular and less can- cellated than the anterior. The ccecal ex- tremity of the organ is drawn out into an