OVUM. [120] or is rather a collection or aggregation of a number of germs surrounded by a common yolk ; in fact, as has been suggested, an ova- rian sac containing a number of ova.* The manner in which the spermatozoa reach the ova for fecundation does not appear to have been ascertained with accuracy. Entozoa.—The ovology of the Helmintha or Entozoa has received considerable atten- tion from physiologists, both on account of the interesting nature of the phenomena pre- sented by its study, and because of the anxiety to discover the mode of production of these parasites within the bodies of other animals. From the researches on this subject which have been prosecuted with great assiduity by a number of observers in recent times, not only have many doubtful points been solved as to the origin of the Entozoa, and the views of naturalists greatly modified in regard to the history of these animals, but considerable assistance has also been received in the elu- cidation of general questions in ovology. I will give a short sketch of what has been most recently ascertained on this subject under the three divisions of the Nematoidea, including all the Roundworms, the Trematoda, and the Cestoidea including the Cystica. All the animals belonging to the first division are bisexual, and the production of the embryo is direct from the ovum, without metagenesis or metamorphosis ; in the two other divisions hermaphroditism prevails, and development is indirect, or accompanied by metagenesis and metamorphosis in the greater number. Nematoidea.—The genital organs in the first of these orders present the same favourable circumstances as those of Insects for the ob- servation of the structure and formation of the reproductive elements in their successive stages, as in the different parts of these tubu- lar organs there are to be found at once the spermatic cells and spermatozoa, and the ger- minal cells and ova in every conceivable de- gree of advancement from their earliest ap- parition to the state of maturity. In the Ascarides and most of the round worms, the upper closed extremities of the two genital tubes of the female correspond with an ovary, or rather as a portion of it which may be regarded as a germ-form- ing organ ; for in this upper part of the tube are produced only the nuclei or nucleated cells, from which the germinal vesicles derive their origin. A second portion of the tube, in which the granular yolk substance is added, is to be looked upon also as a con- stituent part of the ovary, and may be called the yolk-forming or vitelligenous organ. Next follows a constricted part of the tube, which may be termed oviduct, in which the ova meet with the spermatic corpuscles and undergo fecundation. From this the ova pass into the fourth compartment, a dilated portion which has been called a uterus, and below this * Burnett's transl. of Siebold's Compar. Anat. p. HO. the two genital tubes finally unite into a com- mon vagina. In the Ascarides, the process of formation Fig. 85*. Development and fecundation of the ova of Ascaris mystax. A. Earliest stage of the ova as they are found in the coecal or uppermost part of the ovarian tube; some from the highest part are mere molecules, others a little farther down are minute nucleated cells (germinal vesicles or germs of the ova), and round these the primary yolk granules are be- ginning to collect. b. Ova from the second part of the ovarian tube in which they are closely pressed together and arranged in a radiated manner round the axis or centre of the tube. To the right, four of these ova are represented adhering together; to the left, two ova are shown with their flat surfaces, and one with its thin edge towards the observer. The ex- ternal dotted line represents the surface of the basement substance of the yolk in which the opaque vitelline granules are deposited; there is as yet no vitelline membrane ; the germinal vesicle and macula are very distinct. c. An ovum from the oviduct; a faint marginal line indicates the place where the vitelline mem- brane is afterwards formed. The germinal vesicle still visible, though obscured by the yolk granules; the ovum has now assumed an ovoid shape. d. Softened state of the ovum at a slightly later Btage, when it has met with the spermatic cor-