[108] OVUM. pally its outer part. The vitelline membrane does not exist at first, but seems to be formed at a later period by the consolidation of an external layer of the primitive yolk substance. The time of the disappearance of the ger- minal vesicle has not been determined in many of these Moilusca. Previous to seg- mentation a phenomenon occurs, which has now been observed in a large number of ani- mals, but which first attracted special atten- tion in the gasteropodous Moilusca; viz., the separation of one or more clear hyaline liquid globules of considerable size from the surface of the yolk substance, into the space be- tween it and the vitelline membrane. This was first observed by Dumortier*, and de- scribed by Pouchetf, by Van Beneden in the Aplysia J, by Nordmann in Tergipes Ed- wardsii §, by C. Vogt in Actaeon ||, and by various others. A precisely similar phenome- non has also been observed in some of the Vertebrata, as in Mammalia by Wharton Jones, Barry, and BischofF, and in Batrachia by Newport. But though this separation of one or more hyaline globules from the yolk- substance at the time of segmentation appears to be a very general accompaniment of that process, it must be confessed that its import, either in connection with fecundation or de- velopment, has not yet been ascertained. Acephala. — In Acephalous Moilusca the ova are generally of small size, the yolk-sub- stance principally finely granular, the germinal vesicle clear, with a distinct macula, which last not unfrequently presents the form of a double or elongated biscuit-shaped particle. The vitelline membrane is distinct and possesses considerable strength ; and there is generally a considerable space occupied by clear fluid between it and the surface of the yolk. The most interesting feature of the ova of these Moilusca is the funnel-shaped aperture which most of them possess, leading through the vitelline or external membrane into the space occupied by the yolk. This aperture, styled micropyle by J. Midler in the Ho- lothuria, the first instance in which it was discovered, in 1859 If, was observed in the ova of Unio and Anodonta by Leuckart ** and Keber. f \ The latter author supposed that he had observed the penetration of a spermatozoon into the ovum through this aperture, and has described with great form- ality and minuteness all the phenomena which he conceived were related to that process. Although Keber was correct in asserting the existence of the micropyle in these Mollusks, * Embrvol. des Mollusques, in Annal. des Scien. Nat. for 1837, p. 136. t Id. lib. for 1838, vol. x. p. 63. See also Pou- chet's further observations in his work, Theorie positive de l'Ovulation spontanee, pi. xvi. J Annal. des Scien. Nat. 1841, p. 126. § Id. lib. 1846, p. 147. || Sur l'Embryol. des Mollusques Gasteropodes, id. lib. 1846, p. 33. f Archiv. 1852, p. 19. ** Article Zeugung, p. 801, Ann. 1853. •ft De Introitu spermatozoorum in ovula, &c. Ktinigsberg, 4to. 1853. Fig. 19, *. Ova of Unio in different stages of development. (A. b. c. and d., from Hossling; E. from Keber.) a. Tbe early stage of the ovum, when the ger- minal vesicle alone is distinguishable lying in a bulging part of the ovarian substance. b. The same somewhat more advanced; the ovicapsule and vitelline membrane have assumed the pediculated form, and the yolk granules sur- round the germinal vesicle. c. The ovum now enlarged and spherical in form, the yolk granules increased in quantity, and the pedicle narrowed so as to form a short micropyle tube; s, the small body taken by Keber for a sper- matozoon, existing long previous to the occurrence of fecundation. d. The ovum, &c. at a later stage; g, the ger- minal vesicle; v, the yolk; v', the separated portion of the yolk ; s, as in c. now enlarged. e. A nearly similar stage of the ovum as figured by Keber. Some of the contents of the separated portion of the yolk are escaping through the micro- pyle aperture; s, Keber's alleged spermatozoon. it appears that the body described by him as spermatozoon cannot have been of that nature, seeing that it has been proved by other observers that the appearance on which Keber's supposition was founded existed long before fecundation, and remained long after the commencement of embryonic formation in the same condition.* The existence of a similar aperture or micro- pyle in several other Acephalous Moilusca has been ascertained by the recent investiga- tions of various authors; but the actual en- trance of the spermatozoa by the aperture, has not, so far as I aware, been satislactorily observed. There seem, however, to be suffi- cient grounds for believing that in the Ace- phala, as in other animals in which it is found, the micropyle is immediately related to the process of impregnation, by affording a ready access of the spermatozoa to the yolk through the more resistent membranes of the ovum. The accompanying figures from Keber and his critic Hessling give a sufficiently clear view of * Hessling, in Zeitsch. fur Wissensch. Zool., 1854, vol, v. p. 380.; and Bischoff, Wiederlegung des von Dr. Keber bei den Naiaden, &c. Giessen, 4to. 1854.