Ill PANCREAS. meter and rough on their surface, completely obliterated the opening of the pancreatic canal into the duodenum ; they were composed of carbonate of lime. Thereat of the pancreas — that is to say its left extremity—was about two inches long and very hard : the pancreatic canal of lids portion of flic gland opened into the cavity of tlie cyst. This circumstance, and the fact that that portion of the duct leading from the cyst to the duodenum was blocked up by the calculi, make it exceedingly probable that the cyst was primarily nothing but a dilatation of the duct in consequence of this obstruction. It is possible that this may be the origin of most of these cysts, and much to be regretted that the fluid contained in them has not been submitted to a rigorous examination, with the view of ascertaining whether it has any analogy to the secretion, or admixture with it. Two cases of reten- tion of the pancreatic fluid recorded by Cru- veilhier, confirm the probability of this sup- position. " The dilated canal resembled a transparent cyst; the contained fluid was extremely viscid and clear, but of a whitish hue like a solution of gum arabic ; it had a slightly saline taste; the collateral ducts were extremely dilated. There were some white patches, resembling plaster, in the centre of many of the lobules. This substance was more abundant in some of the lobules, and, when removed, presented the appearance of small lumps of plaster or chalk." These creta- ceous lumps might have been of the nature of pancreatic calculus, which we have already seen associated with a cyst involving the duct, or the earthy remains of old tubercle. Fatty degeneration. — I have frequently met with fatty degeneration of the pancreas, and all the instances in which I have detected it have been cases of diabetes. After finding it in four successive cases of this disease, I fancied that I had hit upon its cause and the secret of its true pathology. Although it seemed rather a " lucus a non lucendo " argument to at- tribute an undue formation of sugar to the de- rangement of a sugar-forming organ, yet in a class of bodies so full of instances of isomerism as the starch and sugar series, it appeared to me possible that an imperfect or depraved pancreatic secretion might give rise to the formation of an imperfect glucose incapable of those after changes by which it is worked out of the circulation. The meeting, how- ever, with other cases of diabetes in which the pancreas was not fatty, and, still more, the perusal of iM. Bernard's observations w ith re- gard to the part that the liver plays in the formation of sugar, and the disease of diabetes, dispelled my theory, and compelled me to re- gard the fatty state of the pancreas as the consequence, and not the cause, of the diseased condition, undergoing this degeneration in common with other organs; for I never found fat in the pancreas without finding it in enor- mous quantity in the liver and kidney. I may here remark, that I have not been able to confirm Dr. Johnson's observation*, that in * Diseases of the Kidney, p. 3P5. diabetes, when the kidney cells contain a large quantity of oil, the hepatic cells contain an unusually small amount, and have a " starved " appearance ; for I have invariably found the accumulation of fat in the liver and kidney cells, in cases of diabetes, in direct, and not in inverse, proportion. The microscopical appearances of fatty pan- creas areof two kinds,depending, I think, upon the length of time the degeneration has existed, and the amount of fat (Jig. 7o.). In one, the amount of fat is small, the globules very minute, confined to distinct epithelium cells, Fig. 75. Fatty Degeneration of the pancreas. A. The process here is but slightly advanced, tho oil-globules small, and the epithelium distinct, par- ticularly where soms cells have escaped, as at b; at a, too, within the follicles, they are visible. b, another specimen, in which the fat was more abundant, and the destruction of the tissue com- plete. and giving them, from the increased opacity it imparts to them, a more definite individuality (A. a.); in such a case, if a follicle is ruptured the epithelium escapes, each cell containing its own minute fat globules (A. B ), and the amount of free fat, if any, is very small. In the other case, the appearance of individual epithelium cells in the follicle is altogether lost, the fat globules are larger and more nu- merous, and the rest of the contents indis- tinctly granular. (B. a.) Sometimes the oil globules completely fill the follicle; when in such a case pressure is applied, and the follicle contents forced out, no distinct epithelial cells are seen floating about, but all that is not fatty- is amorphous and broken down. (B, b.) 2. Malignant. — Scirrhus and carcinoma.— These appear to be among the commonest af- fections of the pancreas. The disease gene- rally affects, or commences in, a part only of the organ ; and appears to be primarly pan- creatic, for in some cases the pancreas alone has been found affected. Dr. Bigsby enume-