145 PELVIS. and the haunches rise and open above, d, d. The sacro-iliac joints, being the haunches of Fig. 90. A, diagram of a yielding arch, a, extrados; b, in- trados; d, d>, the haunches; c, a, c, dotted line of pressure. B, parallelogram of forces of sacro-iliac posterior deep ligaments. a, c, vertical or sustaining force; c, d, lateral or tightening force; b, c, diagonal direction of ligaments. the cotylo-sacral arch, have in like manner a tendency to separate above and behind when the pressure on the sacrum is increased ; and this tendency is counteracted by the strong posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. By the law of the resolution of forces, this tightening ac- tion of the sacro-iliac ligaments may be ex- pressed by the opposite sides, a b, c d, of a parallelogram (Jig. is), of which the line of direction of the ligaments, b, c, forms the dia- gonal, and the remaining sides, a c, b d, the sustaining power. Lastly. Because of the oblique position of the sacrum with regard to the ilia, forces acting on the lumbar vertebrae have a ten- dency to throw the base or sacral promon- tory downwards, and to tilt the apex with the coccyx upwards, as is seen in the experiment of striking the separated extremity of the lumbar vertebrae before alluded to, by the im- pulse felt at the sacral promontory. It will be better understood by reference to the drawing and diagram of a model made to re- present the action (fig. 91. a. and is). The tendency of the sacrum is to turn round the axis of the sacro-iliac joints in the curve d f e, (fig. 88. a.), and round the centre a (fig. 91. c'). To counteract this tendency of the base downwards and forwards, the strong Mo-lumbar ligaments (a) pass backwards and outwards from the last lumbar vertebra to the crest of the ilium, upon which it obtains a long and broad hold. And to resist the tilting upwards of the apex of the sacrum, are attached the extremely powerful sacro-sciatic ligaments (b), which aid also the oblique sacro-iliac ligaments to resist backward displacement. Thus are constituted two strong yet elastic springs on each side acting upon the con- cavities of the lumbar and sacral curves, which have, perhaps, the most powerful influence of any that have been before mentioned, in breaking the force of shocks and concussions passing along the bones of the trunk and lower extremities. The importance of this office of the sacro-sciatic ligaments is seen in their great strength, and in the consolidation of the lower sacral vertebra; to which they are attached. The forward direction of the base of the sacral wedge when taken antero- posteriorly, as seen by looking from above, facilitates this elastic yielding of the sacral spring, as it evidently could not take place if