UTERUS —(Abnormal Anatomy). 695 V Y 4 are commonly deemed ulcerative, are admitted by those who so describe them to possess certain characteristic and exceptional features by which they are distinguished from ulcers of other parts. For it is truly asserted, that " whatever the character of an inflam- matory ulceration of the cervix the ulcerated surface is never excavated ; it is always on a level with, or above the non-ulcerated tissues that limit it, and its margin never presents an abrupt induration."* Further, with regard to the position of these " sores,"' two principal circumstances have been almost invariably noticed. As seen by the aid of the speculum, they either present the appearance of a red and apparently raw surface commencing, within the cervix, or at the margin of the os tinea?, and spread- ing outwardly to a limited extent over one or both lips; or they form numerous isolated red spots, or sometimes depressions dotted at nearly regular intervals over the whole surface of the vaginal portion of the cervix, and varying in size from a pin's head to a millet seed. It will aid description to take advantage of these peculiarities for the purpose of arrang- ing in two groups or classes the various pa- thological and other states of the uterine cervix, which severally exhibit the characters just mentioned. Many of these, however, when minutely examined, and tested by the aid of the microscope, so little fulfil the con- ditions of true ulceration, as to make it appear that such a term could only have been applied to them under, in some instances perhaps a misapprehended, and in others a strained, view of their real nature. In the first class may be included those cases in which the filiform papillae of the cervix are in an uncovered state, and either of their natural size or hypertrophied; ever- sions of the cervical mucous membrane; and hypertrophic growths of the same. All, or nearly all the non-excavated ulcers, so termed, are referable to one or other of these con- ditions. Beginning with the normal variety of struc- ture already described, in which the central columnar folds of the cervical mucous mem- brane take a perpendicular direction {fig. 424.), and after running down to the very margin of the os tincae terminate there in a narrow bor- der, or tuft of filiform papilla?, the simplest form which has been viewed as abrasion, excoriation, or ulcer, is thus produced. The velvety pile, constituting one of the most common features of pseudo-ulcer, being formed by these slightly prominent papilla?, fringing the margins of the os. In a more marked degree of the same con- dition, instead of a narrow line or margin, a broader crescentic patch of uncovered filiform papilla? extends outwardly over either or both lips. The papilla? are gathered into little groups, whose appearance, when magnified by a common hand lens, may be compared to * J. H. Bennet, he. cit. p. 79. miniature wheat-sheaves heaped together. Each papilla is perfectly free and possesses its own proper epithelial coat.* This little group, which may cover half the circum- ference of the cervical lip, is encircled or semi-encircled by a thin non-elevated margin, where the ordinary pavement epithelium co- vering the rest of the cervical lip terminates. There is no appearance of any loss of tissue here, beyond that occasioned by the absence of a portion of that dense layer of epithelium, which, like a sheet cast over the papilla;, usually invests them, as far as the inner bor- ders of the cervical lips, with one common covering, in addition to their own proper coat. These papilla? may retain their normal size, or they may be hypertrophied. On account of the large number of capillaries which they contain, and from the circumstance that they are uninvested by vaginal epithelium, they present a florid and often turgid aspect. When such a part is brushed over with nitrate of silver, a line of demarcation is in- stantly produced, the mucus entangled among the naked villi is coagulated, and a cloud of white chloride of silver is precipi- tated among them, while the parts adjacent which are covered by pavement epithelium are less affected, and exhibit only a pinkish white opalescence, that contrasts with the dead white within, and with the abruptly- marked border of the epithelial edge. In this way is produced another effect commonly quoted as a test of ulceration.jr Those bolder and more marked projections of a florid red colour which begin also from the inner margins of the os, and spread out- wardly, looking like granulations, consist of hypertrophies of pre-existing structures inter- mixed occasionally, though more rarely, I be- lieve, with pathological new formations. Such hypertrophies are chiefly the follow- ing, viz. eversion of the cervical lining as described at p. 693. ; hypertrophies of the crested folds of that membrane, which when everted, enlarged, and inflamed, constitute the condition termed " cockscomb granulation ; " and lastly, distended and closed muciparous follicles gathered in groups around the os and intermixed with the hypertrophied structures just noticed. These latter add to the irre- gularities and nodosities of the surface, and together with fissures formed by deepened natural folds, and varicose distensions of ves- sels, constitute the more irregular forms of hypertrophies which have been termed ulcers. The second class of pseudo-ulcers termed commonly aphthae and granulations, viz. those which are dotted at regular intervals over the lips of the cervix, but are often more endur- ing than herpes, and do not usually in their progress coalesce as herpetic spots when con- tiguous almost invariably do; these consist of * Regarding the nature of this coat see p. G39. f Precisely such an effect may be produced upon mucus scraped with a piece of glass from the tongue, and touched with argenti nitras.