131 PELVIS. K 2 Burns gives also, in the female pelvis, the following distances: — 1. Between the symphysis pubis and inferior iliac spine, nearly - - 4 in. 2. „ sacro-iliac joint and the pubic crest of same side - - 4i „ 3. ,, sacral promontory and the obturator notch - - 3^ „ 4. ,, sacral promontory and the acetabula 3i „ 5. „ acetabula anteriorly - 4^ „ G. „ posterior ridge of ilium and the su- perior and inferior anterior spines - 5 ,, 7. ,, centre of iliac crest and the brim of the pelvis, direct - 3^ „ One of these measurements was repeated by Velpeau, Stoltz, and Naegele, viz. from the sacral promontory to the centre of the cotyloid cavity, or sacro-cotyloid. Naegele in 54 and Stoltz in 40 female pelves, found the mean distance to be 3 pouces, 3 to 4 lignes (pied du Roi). Dr. Murphy, considering that the true salient point or promontory lies on a level above the real pelvic brim, at the sacro- lumbal- fibro-cartilage, gives also three more measurements made in the " inclined plane of the promontory," one anteroposterior, be- tween the fibro-cartilage and the upper border of the symphysis, which he places at 4 inches, and two lateral, from the same point to the pectineal eminences, which are on an average about 3J- inches, but which are seldom equal, because of the great tendency to deviation of this promontory from the median line. The latter seem to coincide almost with those given by Dr. Burns between nearly the same points, and the former with the conjugate diameter of the brim. External measurements of the female pelvis, made on the living subject, have also been given, though from few data, as follows : — 1. External antero-posterior diameter, 7 to 8 inches. 2. External transverse, between iliac crests, 13 to 16 inches. 3. From great trochanter to the opposite sacro-iliac joint, 10 to 12 inches. 4. Depth of pelvis from top of sacrum to coccyx, 4 to 5 inches. From the first of these, according to Bau- delocque and Velpeau, 3 inches must be de- ducted for the thickness of the parietes, and from the second 4 inches. Boivin and Lacha- pelle doubted the utility of these measure- mcter, will show how frequently the diameters are compensatory to each other; as this compensation may occur in diameters not usually measured, the circumferential extent seems in many cases to be required. Dr. Churchill gives the circumference of the brim as varying from 13 to lik inches in the female, much less than I have generally found it on the fresh subject after the soft parts were removed. ments generally, because of the great varia- bility in the thickness of the pelvic walls; and Dr. Davis has more recently found the thick- ness of the base of the sacrum to vaiy from 2 to 3 inches in 17 dead subjects. The measurements of Naegele and Otto, with a view to determine the presence of obliquely deformed pelves, are of great im- portance in the practice of midwifery, and may be best given in this place. Out of forty- two female pelves of medium size, the best formed they could obtain, these observers found the following measurements : — 1. From the sciatic tuberosity"] of one side to the posterior I superior iliac spine of the f other side - - J 2 From the anterior superior "1 iliac spine of one side to | the posterior superior of 1 the other side - - I 3. From the spine of the last "| lumbar vertebra to the an- I terior superior iliac spine | on both sides - -J 4. From the great trochanter "i of one side to the posterior superior iliac spine of the other - - - 5. From the middle of the in- ferior border of the sym- physis pubis to the pos- terior superior iliac spine on both sides Mea- sure- ment. Greatest Diffe- rence. 6 6 7 3 6 8 8 5 4 to 5 6 4 2 Danyan, pursuing Naegcle's system, found the great rarity of perfectly regular female pel- ves. Out of eighty female pelves he found fifty- nine differ, in the first measurement, from 1 to G lines. In the second measurement he found a difference, in fifty-eight pelves, of 1 to 11 lines ; in the third, fifty-one differed from 1 to 7 lines ; in the fourth, sixty-two from 1 to 9 lines; and in the fifth measurement, forty- eight pelves had a difference of from 1 to 9 lines. The table on the next page shows the great variety in the diameters of female pelves which may be considered as normal pelves. In males Dupuytren found the distance between the tuberosities of the ischia, in twenty-three subjects, to vary from 2 to 3i inches; and Velpeau, in forty subjects, to vary from If to 4 inches. In fourteen subjects I have found the least distance to be 3 inches, and the greatest 4 inches in the male, and measuring from the exact centres of the inner margin of the tuberosities. These observations on the male are of some im- portance with a view to the operation of lithotomy, w hen the stone is of great size. Inclination of the Pf.lvis.—By making, in a well-formed subject, a direct vertical section of the spinal column., and drawing a line through the centres of the bodies of the axis and last lumbar vertebra, and by com- paring with the transverse plane of such a