SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 468 well as from surgical operations, would seem to show that such is the case. The coats of the blood-vessels he considers to be destitute of sensibility, inasmuch as he found that the operation of fixing the haema-dynamometer into them gave rise to no distinct sign of pain. 2nd. As regards the fibres which take their origin from the ganglia, it seems in a high degree probable that they at least cannot convey impressions from the organs which they supply to the sensorium. In order to communicate such impressions they must transfer them to fibres which do not terminate in the ganglia, but are directly or indirectly connected with the sensorium, and are, in short, true sensory fibres. Such a trans- ference in the normal condition does not, howsver, appear to take place. 3rd. It is not at all probable that fibres, which in ani- mals that have been beheaded, or are under the influence of strychnine, show so little connection with the spinal cord that' stimulus applied to them cannot excite any reflex movements in the voluntary muscles, should be in a condition to communicate impressions through the spinal cord to the sensorium. 4th. Division of the cerebro-spinal nerves which supply the integument is followed by loss of sensibility in that part, although the sympathetic fibres passing to the same have been left uninjured. In the frog, a great number of fibres are sent from the sympathetic to the cerebro-spinal nerves, and are along with these distributed in considerable quantity to the integument: if now the nerves in the leg of the frog be divided above the point at which the fibres of the sympathetic join them, so as in this way to leave the continuity of the latter unin- jured, the limb is notwithstanding deprived of sensibility ; the power of exciting reflex action in the muscles of the limb by stimulus applied to the integument being also at the same time destroyed. Division of the fifth nerve, in like manner, is attended by loss of sensibility in all the parts of the face supplied by this nerve; and no reflex action can be excited by stimulus applied to the eye, tongue, &c, al- though these parts derive fibres from the sympathetic, which are not divided in the operation. Although in the normal condition the fibres in question are not capable of com- municating impressions to the sensorium, they may, however, according to Volkmann, do so in diseased states. In this way the severe pain which is sometimes felt in organs sup- plied by the sympathetic, does not depend so much on cerebro-spinal nerve-fibres as on an altered condition of the ganglionic fibres themselves. The number of cerebro-spinal fibres distributed to such parts is too small to explain it. Severe pain is frequently felt in bones when diseased, although, according to Volkmann, these probably receive none but sympathetic filaments. The circumstance already mentioned, that in experimenting on the sensibility of the ganglia, it has been found that these are frequently incapable of trans- mitting impressions until by frequent irrita- tion they have been brought into a kind of inflammatory condition, also indicates the same thing. All the fibres which are sent from the cerebro-spinal system to the sympathetic, through the medium of the communicating branches, are probably derived, according to Volkmann, from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves alone, and are not therefore possessed of motor properties. They hold the relation of centripetal or afferent fibres to the ganglia of the sympathetic. The motor properties of the sympathetic are therefore considered by him to be due entirely to the fibres which arise in the different ganglia. In regard to those movements which, as already stated, are excited in organs supplied with sympathetic nerves, by irritation of the cen- tral masses of the nervous system, Volkmann holds that the stimuli to contraction in these cases are not transmitted directly to the organs in which the contractions are mani- fested, but are first conveyed by the fibres in the rami communicantes to the ganglia of the sympathetic, where transference to the proper sympathetic fibres takes place. Thus, then, according to Volkmann, the motor properties of the sympathetic are en- tirely due to the proper ganglionic fibres. The painful sensations which are sometimes felt in parts supplied by the sympathetic are due, not so much to fibres of cerebro-spinal origin as to an altered condition of the gan- glionic fibres, while the fibres which are sent to the sympathetic by the cerebro-spinal sys- tem act as afferent or centripetal fibres to the different ganglionic centres, and by means of which a connection is established between the sympathetic and cerebro-spinal systems. According to Valentin, again, both the motor and sensory properties of the sym- pathetic are due entirely to cerebro-spinal fibres. It is generally admitted that the sympa- thetic receives fibres from the anterior as well as from the posterior roots of the cerebro- spinal nerves. The number of these fibres must, moreover, be very considerable, espe- cially in the higher animals; it would seem probable, therefore, that the motor, and especially the sensory properties of the sym- pathetic are in part due to these fibres. The experiments of Budge and Waller show, al- most beyond a doubt, that, in the case of the iris at least, the motor fibres which pass to it through the medium of the sympathetic are derived from the spinal cord. The circum- stance, however, that the organs supplied by the sympathetic cannot be influenced by the will, and in the normal condition are removed beyond the sphere of sensation, would seem to indicate that the conducting power of these fibres must be modified by the different ganglia through which they pass in some such way as Volkmann supposes. Are the ganglia to be regarded as centres of reflex action? By Valentin*, Longet-)-, and others, they are denied this property. * Op. bit. p. C97., as quoted by Longet. t Op. cit. p. 578.