105 PELVIS. m 3 ankylosed at the tuberosities with the last sacral vertebra, and, as seen especially in the Ternate Bat, given in the above figure, pre- senting an appearance as if ankylosed to each other in one mass, from the extreme narrow- ness of the sacrum at that part, inclosing a small sacro-sciatic foramen. The pubes (b) are thick, short, and very oblique, joining with the short ischial rami at d, to form an elon- gated obturator foramen (f). The ilio-pectineal spine (It) is very prominent, and recurved almost like a marsupial bone. This is especially seen in the Vespertilio spectrum, in which it is considered by Wagner as the first indication of a marsupial bone. The pubic symphysis is totally wanting generally in the Bat tribe, leaving a large interval (d, d') ; but, accord- ing to Pallas and Schreger, the males of some species possess a symphysis, which is wanting in the female, a peculiarity curiously illustra- tive of the influence of sex on the pelvis. In a specimen in the Hunterian Museum the symphysis, or a close approximation of the bones, is certainly present, though very short. The cotyloid cavities in the bats are closely approximated, and are directed backwards as well as outwards, causing the retroversion of the feet seen in these animals. The pelvic cavity and outlets are much more capacious than in the Mole and Shrew. In the Cetacea, which are in other respects osteologically allied to the Pachydermata, the pelvic development suddenly becomes dege- nerated into small elongated bones, which may be considered as the homologue of the pules, and which are imbedded in the muscles of the abdomen immediately in front of the ventral opening, and give attachment to the crura penis. They differ, only in being thicker and less transparent, from the pelvic bones of the true Fishes, between which and the Mammalia these animals are the connecting link, as the Bats to the Birds, and the Mo- notremata to the (Jhelonian reptiles. In the Dolphins these pubic bones are two simple, elongated, flat bones placed on each side of the median line. In some Whales they are connected by a cross piece, and assume a hyoid shape (see Jig. 257. Art. Cetacea). In the Dugong it is a V-shaped bone formed of four pieces, and articulated to one of the ver- tebra? by its free extremities. In the Manatus, according to Cams, they are entirely wanting. The pelvic structure of Birds is charac- terised by very evident distinctions from the mammalian type, the osseous parts being ac- cumulated, as it were, on the posterior and lateral parts, leaving the anterior parietes deficient, and being also thinner and more spread out, so as to leave smaller foramina. The sacrum [fig. 104. «) is generally broad and large, consisting of from eight to twenty pieces, being increased forwards by ankylosis to the vertebrae corresponding to the lumbar region of the Mammalia, and which contribute to support the iliac wings. This arrangement, as well as the extensive ankylosis of the ilia and ischia, has an evident relation to their bipedal support, and is compensatory for the deficiency of the pelvic circle anteriorly. It is much more extensive in the Cursores and those which use the legs as the most usual instruments of progression. The bodies of the sacral vertebrae are raised in a continuous ridge on the anterior aspect, those imme- diately between the acetabula being larger and broader than the rest (Jig. 105. a). The first five or six (.v), which may be considered as the ankylosed lumbar vertebras, present marked spinous processes united in a high crest which intervenes between, coalesces with, and sup- ports the iliac wings at their inner margins (Jig. 104. b). Their transverse processes, which are also ankylosed to the ilia near their outer borders, are strong and well marked on the ventral surface, and differ from those of the true sacral vertebrae in being more pro- minently advanced and having a direction more horizontally outwards instead of back- wards and upwards (Jig. 105. ?■), the most pos- terior being the thickest and placed at the junction of the iliac wing with the shaft. A Superior or dorsal aspect of the pelvis of tlie Duck : a, sacrum; b, coalesced lumbar spines; c, sacral suture; d,' ilium; e, cotylo-sacral rib; f, ischio-sacral buttress ; g, saero-iliac plate ; h, sacro- sciatic plate; i, acetabulum; /i, ischium; /, saero- sciatic foramen ; m, rudiments of ischial ramus; 7t, spine; o, anterior obturator,, foramen; p, pubis; q, ilio-pectineal spine ; r, anterior ischio-pubic union. little anterior to the acetabula, however, where the true sacral vertebrae may be con- sidered to commence, the spines gradually become less marked as they emerge from between the iliac wings and form a more or less flattened surface (a), which is separated