OVUM. [106] which subdivide them; and as these cross folds are formed the longitudinal ones beome gradu- ally shallower. The surface of the egg then presents the reticulated appearance which is shown in fig. 70.* On making a section through such an egg, hardened in alcohol or any other suitable reagent, it is easy to per- ceive that the ovicapsule takes no part in the inflections, but that they consist entirely in the grooving of the yolk, and the corresponding bending into the grooves of the vitelline mem- brane. This state is maintained till the ovum is approaching maturity, when the depth of the grooves or folds speedily diminishes; and these come at last to be completely effaced in those ova which have left the ovicapsule. In Loligo, it is stated by Kdlliker, there are only the longitudinal folds. No satisfactory opinion has been offered as to the cause of this peculiar structure. Fig. 70 *. Ova of the Sepia. (From KoUiker.') A. Three ovarian ova of the Sepia in somewhat different stages of advancement attached hy their pedicles to the ovary, and represented several times magnified. They all show the reticulated mark- ings on the surface produced by the folding in of the vitelline membrane ; g, the place of the germi- nal vesicle and possibly also of a micropyle at the small pole of the egg, in which segmentation after- wards occurs. b. Direct view of this germinal pole of one of the ova, showing the absence of the folds towards the centre in which the germinal vesicle is situated. c. Cross section of one of the ova, showing at o the unfolded or smooth ovarian capsule, and at v m the folded vitelline membrane. Towards the narrow pole of the ovum, the folds now described become less marked ; and they are entirely absent just at the pole itself, so that the germinal vesicle may be seen in the smooth space which is left between them. At this place I had some expectation to find an aperture of the nature of a micropyle ; and I accordingly sought for it in some specimens of the ovarian ova of Sepia which I had pre- served in alcohol, but without success, per- haps on account of the opacity produced in the membranes by the alcohol, and the adhe- sion of the yolk substance to them. Professor Kolliker has since informed me that he believes the micropyle to exist in these ova, which I think extremely probable. The germinal vesicle, according to this ob- server, remains entire and visible till the ova are mature, as may be seen by the examination of specimens hardened in alcohol. It dis- appears just about the time of the ova leaving the ovarian capsule ; but in several instances he found it still remaining in ova that were already free. It was always gone in those ova which had regained the smoothness of their exterior. The yolk-substance of the mature ova con- sists entirely, excepting immediately at the seat of the germinal disc, of corpuscles some- what similar to the vitelline tablets of the Frog's egg. At an earlier period there are heaps of fine granules of the same size, from which the corpuscles are therefore probably formed. In the earliest stage the vitelline substance is entirely composed of fine molecules — the pri- mitive yolk — which appear to be formed in the same manner as in other animals. The Cephalopoda furnish a remarkable ex- ample among the Invertebrata of a very limited or partial segmentation. This process, upon the detailed description of which I will not enter here, usually commences in a spot either in or more frequently near to the germinal pole, by the formation of the primitive groove which extends across the disc. The forma- tion of the second groove, which crosses the first, the production of other radiating grooves, the separation of annular sets of segments from the periphery, and the suc- cessive steps of the process which follow, are probably determined by the same circum- stances which have been referred to as re- lated to this phenomenon in the cicatricula of the Bird's egg. Gasteropoda.—In the greater number, if not almost all, of the remaining Mollusca, the ova differ greatly from those of the Cephalo- poda, and approach more nearly to those I have classed under the groups possessing the small or middle sized yolk, which is princi- pally or entirely formative, and which under- goes a more or less complete segmentation.* In the Pteropoda and in those of gasteropodous Mollusca, which have the male and fe- male organs in the same individual, there is a remarkable combination of the ovary and testis in a single hermaphrodite organ, usually * The genus Sagitta, among the Pteropoda, is, however, probably an exception to this statement, as in it, according to Darwin, the embryonal part of the yolk is distinct from the rest, or rather covers it like a ring.