691 UTERUS —(Abnormal Anatomy). Y Y 2 sition. Fibroid growths retained within the uterine walls, are at first almost invariably spherical, but in course of growth become ovate or flattened. Those which project from the outer surface are usually nearly round, while the polypi of the cavity, and those which extend into the vagina, are pyriform, and possess longer or shorter peduncles. The greater part proceed from the fundus, com- paratively few from the wails of the body, and scarcely any of this kind from the cervix. The latter are usually of a more spongy or cellular character than the former, which con- sist of a denser fibrous tissue. The power of growth of fibroid tumours appears to be nearly unlimited. The known extremes in such cases are, in point of num- ber, from one to forty ; and in respect of weight, from a few grains to seventy pounds. Fibroid exercises a considerable influence upon the form and position of the uterus. Tumours within, or external to it, change the position of the organ in various ways, pro- ducing elevation, prolapsus, lateral obliquity, and especially retroversion, according to the seat which they occupy. Polypi distend the cavity of the body and cervix, and the os uteri, and sometimes produce prolapsus and inversion of the uterus. The influence of fibroid upon the thickness of the uterine walls is also considerable. Ge- nerally a marked hypertrophy, equal some- times to that of pregnancy, takes place, while in parts a thinning of the walls occurs. The latter is especially observable in cases where the tumours are numerous, as in fig. 476. These sometimes appear to grow at the ex- pense of the whole uterine substance, so that the original organ is with difficulty discovered among the hypertrophied mass. Fig. 476. The uterus surrounded by outgrowths of fibroid which have pushed the peritoneum before them, several having become pedunculated. (Ad Nat.) The uterus, at the expense of whose tissues the tumours are formed, can scarcely be discovered in the midst of the mass. Important consecutive changes take place during the process of growth of fibroid. So long as the structure retains its original hard- ness, the increase is comparatively slow, con- sisting in a simple and uniform multiplication of the elements already described. Occasion- ally an increase of density is produced by cal- cification of certain portions of the mass, and in this way the so-called bony tumours of the uterus are formed. Or, on the other hand, under rapid growth, the tumour may become softer, in consequence of serous infiltration into its tissues ; the fluid occasionally collect- ing in the centre of the tumour and forming there a species of dropsy. Or, a process of inflammation being set up, suppuration, and sometimes sloughing, result. In the more vascular fibroids the vessels may dilate and burst, and the tumour then becomes infiltrated with extravasated blood. It has been doubted whether fibroid ever undergoes absorption. I have reason to think, from occasionally wit- nessing a marked diminution in bulk, that this may sometimes occur. The explanation of this is indeed easy when the mass of the tumour consists of hypertrophied muscular tissue, which in such cases has been found to undergo fatty degeneration, and so its disper- sion may be effected. Subperitoneal and interstitial fibroid, when extensive, interferes with pregnancy, and also renders labour difficult or perilous, by weaken- ing the expulsive power of the uterus and pre- disposing the organ to rupture. Submucous fibroid, in the form of polypi, may prevent impregnation or shorten gestation. In the unimpregnated uterus, all forms, but especially the submucous and interstitial, are apt to be accompanied by sever e recurrent haemorrhage, producing excessive anaemia and occasionally death. Lastly, it may be observed, in reference to tumours which are commonly termed polypi, that the present state of pathology demands a separation of these, according to their struc- tural differences, such as has long been esta- blished, upon a similar basis, among those objects of the animal kingdom whose sup- posed resemblance, distant indeed, and at the best fanciful, has given a name to this form of tumour. For, as in that prototypal group of animal forms, once termed polypi, three widely separated classes at least are now known to have been combined, so those pathological for- mations, which are still familiarly termed po- lypi, exhibit a more than equal number of va - rieties, each marked by distinct differences of structure. These may be distinguished as the fibrous, including the cellular, which are com- posed of a looser fibrous tissue ; the muscular; the mucous, also frequently containing much fibrous tissue, and the cancerous or malignant polypi. And to these have been added the so-called fibrinous or blood polypi. The fibrous polypus has been already de- scribed, and the second, or muscular, may here also be classed with it, as having its origin in the middle coat of the uterus, but consisting of muscular rather than of fibrous tissue. These muscular polypi are comparatively rare. Their structure, as exhibited in the ac- companying Jig. 477., is precisely that of the proper muscular coat of the uterus.