81) OVUM. great delicacy, and is perceived only witli diffi- culty. The yolk substance is in great part com- posed of peculiar angular corpuscles, sometimes flat and tabular, at other times cubical, octahe- dral, and of other forms. It has been stated by Leydig* that in the plagiostomatous fishes there is no vitelline disc or cicatricula ; but this does not agree with my observations in the common skate fish, in the ova of which I have always observed a very distinct flat disc about three-eighths of an inch in diameter, of a lighter colour than the surrounding part of the yolk, and situated on the surface which naturally floats uppermost. The germinal vesicle, which is larger than that of birds, sometimes ^ °fan 'ncn m diameter, is ex- tremely delicate and very easily ruptured. Its nucleus or macula is originally single, but becomes afterwards subdivided or multiple and diffused. The ova of the cephalopoda, which may, according to most embryologists, be included in this group, are of considerable size. They possess a germinal disc, and the segmentation of the yolk is partial or is confined to that disc, as in the animals previously mentioned.f The large yolk corpuscles are spherical masses of united oil granules, and like the most of those of the bird's egg without any true enclosing vesicle. The germinal vesicle is of considerable size, and has subdivided maculae. The whole are enveloped by a fine structureless vitelline membrane. In the course of the formation of the ovum, the ex- ternal part of it undergoes a remarkable change in being folded inwards in numerous deep grooves, which almost reach the centre of the yolk. This folded structure is in the smaller species again effaced before the ova reach maturity, but in the larger species it appears to remain, and to be the cause of a peculiar reticulated marking over the surface of the ova. In regard to other classes of the inverte- brate animals of which the ova may appear to belong to this group, 1 shall have occasion hereafter to state some additional facts, in explanation of the manner in which in some of them the granular and cellular elements of the yolk are occasionally combined. From the foregoing considerations, then, it appears that in ova of the first group as dis- tinguished in this treatise, the germinal vesicle is at once the first formed and the fundamental part of the ovum around which the rest of the parts are deposited. It alone, therefore, is strictly to be regarded as a simple or primary cell. It may aptly be called the Germ-cell. In birds its nucleus or macula is originally simple, but at a very early period it undergoes subdivision into nucleoli or maculae, so numerous and minute * Beitrage zur Mikroskop. Anat. der Rochen mid Ha'ien, p. 87., a work which I quote only from Leuckart. t We owe this interesting discovery to Kolliker. See his work on the Development of the Cephalo- poda, Zurich, 1844. as at last scarcely to be recognisable, and thus the germinal vesicle loses in such animals somewhat the characteristic cellular struc- ture which it presents in many others. Next, by aggregation of the primitive yolk substance round the germ-cell, and by the gradual con- solidation of a clear film on the outermost part of the albuminous matrix of this sub- stance into the form of an enclosing vesicle, there is produced the primitive ovum, a secon- dary cell, in which the zona pellucida consti- tutes the cell wall, the oil granules and albu- minous fluid of the yolk substance the con- tents, and of which the germinal vesicle is now the nucleus. And lastly, if it is consi- dered desirable to extend the application of the term cell also to the mature state of the ovarian egg of the bird, we may perhaps still regard that organism as a tertiary cell (in the ascending series) formed by the superposition of new parts, some of which are themselves cellular in their origin, round the primitive ovum, the whole being at last enclosed and moulded in the vesicular form by the external vitelline membrane ; a peculiarity of this for- mation being that in the meantime the wall of the secondary cell or primitive ovum has disappeared. But, notwithstanding the sphe- rical form, the isolated position, and the simple structure of the parts which compose the completed ovarian ovum of birds, doubts may fairly be entertained as to the propriety of bringing such complex organisms under the designation of cell as now generally em- ployed. <) 5. More detailed description of ova be- longing to the second group, or with small granular yolk and complete segmentation. If the foregoing views are correct, it appears that, while the ova of birds and other animals of the first group contain within the vitelline membrane the whole product of formation which belongs to the ovarian capsule, the ova of mammalia and animals of the second group comprehend only those parts of the contents of the Graafian follicle which are formed within it at the earliest period — viz., the germinal vesicle and the primitive yolk substance with its limiting zona. In the Graafian follicle of mammalia, there is likewise produced a large proportional quantity of cellular elements and albuminous fluid, the tunica and substantia granulosa, &c, in a part of which (cumulus proligerus), the ovum comes to be imbedded in the progress of their formation ; and these superadded contents of the Graafian follicle escape along with the ovum when it leaves the ovary, but do not apparently maintain any long or constant connection with it. In the ova of those invertebrate animals which belong to this group, the conditions of formation do not admit of their comparison with those of mammalia ; but they agree with them in so far that the first germ-cell is en- closed by a finely granular yolk, and that the vesicular envelope of the ovum generally cor- responds to the zona formed by consolidation on the surface of the primitive yolk.