322 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. composition. These changes seem to be the result, partly of putrefaction, partly of a self- digestive process. And since we scarcely ever have any opportunities of examining the perfectly healthy stomach of Man imme- diately after death, we are compelled to lay unusual stress upon the structure seen in those of the higher Vertebrate animals which approach most nearly to the human conforma- tion of this organ. Among the various domestic Mammalia most accessible for such purposes, the struc- ture and habits of the Dog render its sto- mach, in many respects, one of the best we can select for examination. In this animal, the tubes of the cardiac extremity (u, Jig. 248.) begin on the free or Fig. 247. Mucous membrane from the middle of the Dog's stomach, as seen from the free surface. Magnified 150 diameters. a, ridges which intervene between the primary tubes, covered by columnar epithelium ; b, primary tubes, lined by similar columnar cells ; c, secondary tubes, given off from the preceding, and lined, at their commencement, by similar cells; d, central calibre, or cavity, of a secondary tube. cavitary surface of the organ, by apertures which form the intervals of a kind of net- work of ridges. These apertures are polygonal, or irregularly six-sided, and the tube into which each soon merges has a diameter that is very little less than the distance between the ridges; — on an average about ^yth of an inch. The tube now proceeds down- wards for a short distance, before bifur- cating into two smaller tubes. And each of these again divides at a further stage of its descent. In this manner, what was at first a single large cylinder, ends as a bundle of about four or five small tubes, which are col- lectively enclosed in a portion of matrix thicker than that occupying their interstices. At the pyloric extremity of the organ, the tubes ( a,j%.248.) commence by apertures,which have a diameter twice as great as those seen in the cardiac region, and from hence they pass vertically downwards for some distance, with a simple cylindrical form. All the ter- minal branches of these long pyloric tubes are for the most part given oft' at nearly the same height, so that they constitute only one-sixth, or thereabouts, of the whole thick- ness of the mucous membrane, instead of about five-sixths, as in the cardiac extremity. In both the above regions, however, the num- ber of these terminal tubes is rarely less than three, or more than six. Their diameter is generally about one-third that of the larger and simple tube from which they originate. And the total bulk of the bundle which they form, as seen on transverse section, is as nearly as possible equal to that of the primary tube. But these differences in the width and ramification of the cardiac and pyloric tubes are accompanied by a much more remarkable and important contrast in the form, size, and arrangement of their respective contents. The whole of the pyloric tube (a, Jig. 248.) is occupied by a single layer of columnar epi- thelium, the cylindrical or slightly prismatic cells of which are placed vertically to the basement membrane, and contain a very dis- tinct nucleus near their attached extremity. The only difference offered by these cells in the terminal branches of the tube is, that they are shorter in proportion to their width, and enclose darker and more granular contents. Fig. 248. Tubes from the cardiac and pyloric regions of the Dog's stomach, to show the contrast of their struc- tures. Magnified 60 diameters. Altered from Koelldier. A. pyloric tube ; a, primary tube; b, three second- ary tubes. B. cardiac tube; a, primary tube lined by columnar epithelium; b, two secondary tubes; c, four terminal branches containing large oval cells.