REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 211 p 2 Hon (Letters to Simrnonds). Barlow, Essays on Surgery and Medicine. Rokitanshj, Pathological Anatomy (Hewett's Translation for Sydenham Society). Otto, Compendium of Pathological Ana- iomv (Trans, by South). Paget, Lectures on Nutrition (in Med. Gazette, 1847). Meckel, Ma- nual of Descrip. and Pathological Anatomy. Lever, on Pelvic Tumours (in Guy's Hospital Reports, April, 1842). Velpeau, Traitddes Accouchements. E. Sand/fort, De Ankylosi Ossium Pubis. Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. Cooper, Sir A., Surgical Essays-, in addition to the authors mentioned at the end of the article on the normal and comparative anatomy of the pelvis, and to the various cases cited in the text from the Medico-Chir. Transac- tions, the Edinburgh Journal, the Med. Observ. and Inquiries, and other periodicals. {John Wood.) REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE. (VEGETABLE OVUM.) Before the mi- croscope was placed in the hands of the vegetable physiologist, the conditions by which he was surrounded in the investigation of the processes by which the embryo is formed, differed widely from those which exist at present. From the absence of means of observation, the phenomena of reproduction could only be studied in the Phanerogamia. Even as regards the highest cryptogamous plants, very little had been ascertained ; while the Algae and Fungi were involved in the most complete obscurity. But in the Phanerogamia it was already known that two kinds of organs were essential to the produc- tion of the embryo, and something had also been learnt of the mode of their combina- tion. No sooner were these facts established, than, with a readiness of which innumerable examples present themselves in the history of physiological investigations, they were at once seized upon to serve as the ground of a com- parison between the animal and vegetable kingdoms ; and naturalists soon passed to the conclusion that the organs in question were of distinct sexes, or, in other words, stood in the same relation to each other as those of animals. The analogy seemed sufficient for the mind to rest upon; and the doctrine derived from it was received as indisputable. The influence exercised by the state of things we have just described, may be traced in two directions :—In the first place, a strong tendency is even now observable in the minds of naturalists, especially in this country, to ap- proach the subject from the same point of departure as before, when the circumstances were so different. The appearance of greater simplicity among the higher plants, was en- tirely dependent on conditions belonging ex- clusively to the observer; that is to say, on the imperfection of the means of observation. Now that so many of these imperfections are removed, to take the Phanerogamia as our starting point in approaching either this or any other general question in vegetable physi- ology, is evidently unreasonrible ; we must commence our investigation where there are fewest complications—namely, at the unicel- lular plants. From this point we must ascend from class to class, following as closely as may be the natural order of complexity of organisa- tion. A second result of the same causes is the confusion which so frequently arises in the employment of terms which are derived from the animal kingdom, such as "male," "female," "ovum," &c. As our knowledge of the sub- ject becomes more accurate, the grounds upon which the assumed correspondence between the reproductive organs of plants and animals rests appear less substantial. The only analogies, indeed, which can possess any real value are those occurring between the lowest members of the two series. This is the only point at which the two kingdoms are in mutual contact, and consequently it is here only that an actual correspondence can be traced through succes- sive consecutive modifications. The subject of the following article is the origin and development of the germ, or, in other words, the reproduction of plants by means of germs. Considering it as a conclusion, respecting which there can remain very little doubt in the present state of vegetable physiology, that every existing plant must have originated as a single cell, there are two modes in which this may be supposed to have taken place. In the one case, a cell originally forming a part of the tissue of the parent, and not previously dis- tinguished in any respect from its neighbours, suddenly assumes a new activity which it did not before possess. To this change the term " Verjiingung," or, as it is rendered by Mr. Henfrey, " rejuvenescence," has been applied, and is most expressive of its nature. A cell in which there has previously been a gradual diminution in the intensity of vital manifesta- tions, recovers the capability of development which it possessed when first formed. Now, however, the formative force by virtue of which the whole subjects the development of all its parts to its own, being abated and weakened by age, the rejuvenescent cell be- comes individualised and is transformed into the rudiment of a new plant, in accordance with a capabilityof development,which resides entirely in itself. This process is called gem- mation. In the other case, the cell from which the new plant originates, manifests from the first moment of its existence conformity to law, on the one hand, in its anatomical relations to the organs of the parent upon which it is supported, or within which it is enclosed, on the other, in the mode in which its develop- ment commences — its transformation being the result of an activity inherent in it, not as an individual cell, but as being a part of the parent, and still under the control of its formative force. It is to this cell that the name germ is alone applicable in the restricted sense in which it is generally used ; namely, as expressing not only that it will, if it live long enough, transform itself into an embryo, but that it presents itself uniformly in the same species under the same anatomical>condi- tions. The term " vegetable ovum," placed at the