653 UTERUS— (Development). upon the arrival ot the ovum within the ute- rine cavity are, in the human subject, as }'et unknown. Direct observation of the earliest stages are still wanting, and, unfortunately, the difference between these first steps in the mammalia (except Quadrumana) and man is so considerable, that only a limited aid can be derived from comparative observation. The ovum, when first found in the human uterus, is lodged in a small closed cavity, forming a continuous structure with the decidua which lines the rest of the uterine walls. In this little chamber, which may be formed at any part, but is most frequently seen near one or other of the tubal orifices, the little spherical ovum lies loose and unattached. In various examples which have been preserved and figured by different authors of the decidua at this stage, the size of this chamber varies from that of a pea to a hazel nut, and this size it acquires in the second week. The walls of the cavity containing the ovum, and those forming the lining membrane of* the uterus, are nearly alike in appearance and texture. They both consist of decidua, the former constituting the decidua reflexa, the latter the decidua vera of Dr. W. Hunter. For greater distinctness, those names are sometimes exchanged for decidua chorii or ovuli, and decidua uteri. The latter, accord- ing to a suggestion of Dr. M, Baillie, is also occasionally termed parietal decidua. At this time all the uterine tissues have begun to expand and grow, and the uterine cavity, the walls of which were previously nearly in contact, to enlarge after the manner which in pathology constitutes eccentric hy- pertrophy. But, according to the foregoing description, this cavity now no longer forms one, but two compartments, the one partly inclosed within the other. Of these two chambers, the newly formed and smaller one contains and supports the ovum, and subsequently the foetus. It may therefore be termed the fcetal chamber; the other constitutes the original cavity of the uterus, and may be distinguished as the ute- rine chamber ; according to the views of Breschet, it is the hydroperionic cavity. As the foetal chamber enlarges, and the decidua reflexa becomes more expanded in consequence of the growth of the contained ovum, it gra- dually encroaches upon and finally obliterates the uterine chamber, which can no longer be distinguished as a separate cavity after the fifth or sixth month of gestation. It will be necessary to examine separately the general characters of these two decidual coats. That which lines the uterine cavity may be first noticed. The parietal decidua, at the very earliest period of pregnancy in which it can be examined, forms a soft and spongy layer, 1—2"' in thickness. That, surface w hich looks towards the uterine cavity is ele- vated into numerous projections, which may be roughly compared to the cerebral convolu- tions, though relatively much flatter and less regular than these; between them are nume- rous little furrows or channels. The whole surface, both in the sulci and elevations, is covered by numerous minute perforations, corresponding with those formerly described as the orifices of the uterine glands in the unimpregnated uterus. But these orifices, from being enlarged, may now be easily dis- tinguished by the unaided eye. They give to the surface a fine cribriform aspect. All these characters are more or less observable also in the decidua lining the uterus, in cases of extra-uterine (tubal) gestation. Along the marginal lines formed by the angles of the cavity, where the decidua is always thinnest, these apertures are large and expanded, but in the elevated spots they are often closed, apparently from lateral pressure, occasioned by the rapid growth of structure. When early abortion takes place, the whole lining of the uterus, including the decidua reflexa, is often thrown off entire, forming a Fig. 450. Tlic entire decidua or lining membrane of the uterus Cast off in abortion. (After W. Hunter.) A portion of the specimen has been cut away to show the interior, which had formed the uterine cavity. The slight elevations upon this surface are very characteristic of the decidua in this condition. The outer surface is rough and flocculent. The fcetal chamber is in process of formation in the upper part of this specimen, near one of the tubal orifices. The ovum having at this time no adhesion to the walls of the chamber, has dropped out of it. Bristles are introduced at the orifices corresponding with the Fallopian tubes, and pass out at the internal os uteri, the cervix not contributing to form the decidua. cast of the uterine cavity. If this occurs in the first fortnight of gestation, the mass re- tains the triangular form of the uterus. In each of the three angles is generally found an aperture corresponding with the points at which the membrane had been torn off from its continuity with the lining of the Fallopian tubes and cervix uteri. The outer, or dorsal surface of the sub- stance expelled, is always rugged. It exhibits numerous little papillary or club-shaped ele-