461 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. question contains fibres derived both from movements are not due to inherent irritability, the sympathetic and also from the pneumo- as Haller maintained, but depend upon the gastric. Again, such a restraining power must spinal cord. The cessation produced in the hold an opposite relation to the moving power way just stated, although indicating that an in the normal condition ; the moving power influence may be exercised through the cen- would therefore express itself only in part, tral nervous masses upon the movements of according as the other is in a latent state or the heart, by no means implies the conclusion in a state of activity, and consequently sec- which was drawn from it by Legallois, in- tion of the vagus nerve ought, did it exert asmuch as the heart may sometimes in such the restraining power in question, to be fol- cases again begin to pulsate. That the heart lowed by an acceleration in the movements may be influenced in its action through the of the organ, which is not the case. Budge, medium of the central masses of the nervous therefore, seems to regard the fibres which system is also shown by the effects which are are sent to the heart in the frog by the pneu- produced by the application of the galvanic mogastric, as possessed of motor and sensory stimulus to these parts. Thus, in the frog, properties. as shown by the experiments of Weber*, Schiff also found that when the heart's Budgef, Valentin J, and others, it may be action has been made to cease by application made to cease pulsating by applying the wires of the wires to the groove between the an- of the magneto-electric rotation apparatus to ricles and ventricles, this effect cannot be either side of the medulla oblongata. Unless counteracted by applying them to the bulbus there has been much loss of blood in exposing arteriosus. The phenomenon of the cessa- the parts the heart becomes dark-red, and is tion of the heart's action, produced by the very much distended; where the large blood- application of the galvanic stimulus to the vessels have been previously cut the heart pneumogastric, he explains by supposing still ceases to pulsate when the stimulus is that its fibres are in a state of activity applied as above: it does not, however, pre- during the systole of the corresponding sent the dark-red distended appearance, but part of the heart, but quickly become ex • is more or less collapsed and pale. The ex- hausted, thus allowing the diastole to take periment, according to them, seldom or never place: thereafter, their activity being again fails. If the electric stimulus has been ap- renewed, a second systole results. When plied for too long a time the heart again begins therefore, strong galvanic stimuli are applied to beat, in the same way as takes place when to the nerve the state of exhaustion continues the stimulus is applied to the trunk of the longer and in the same proportion the dia- pneumogastric nerve. The same stimulus also stole, or cessation of the heart's action, is also sometimes produces more or less change in longer. the rhythm of the organ. According to the In accordance with the above views, Valen- Webers, the portion of the central nervous tin * in like manner holds that the sympa- masses which, when stimulated in this man- thetic has no influence over the movements ner, gives rise to a cessation in the action of of the heart in the frog, neither giving rise to the heart, is that extending from the corpora acceleration nor stoppage of its action. quadrigemina to the posterior extremity of In regard to the connection between the the calamus scriptorius. Budge found, in his central masses of the nervous system and the experiments, that the corpora quadrigemina action of the heart, it is evident, from what were not so intimately concerned in the pro- has been above stated in regard to the effects duction of these effects as the medulla ob- which are produced by the application of the longata. Tiedemann$ appears to regard the galvanic stimulus to the pneumogastric nerve, cerebellum and the medulla oblongata as the that a certain influence must be exercised by parts through which the cessation of the these. By Willis f, and others, it was held heart's action may be induced, while stimulus that the movements of the heart, as well as applied to the corpora quadrigemina produces of the other inorganic muscles, depend upon no effect. Valentin believes that while the the cerebellum. This they believed from the corpora quadrigemina and cerebellum exercise circumstance that the nerves which preside a certain influence, the medulla oblongata is over the involuntary actions were supposed the part chiefly concerned. In nine mice, to take their origin from this part of the ner- which were rendered insensible by chloroform, vous system, and also from observing that and whose hearts and medulla oblongata were wounds upon the back part of the head proved laid bare, Valentin endeavoured to ascertain speedily fatal. Haller J, again, endeavoured the parts of the central nervous masses which, to show that the action of the heart is en- when stimulated in the way above mentioned, tirely independent of nervous influence, and is give rise to cessation of the heart's action, as due merely to the inherent irritability of the also the effects which are produced by the muscular fibres. From the circumstance that same stimulus when applied to the spinal sudden destruction of the spinal cord im- cord. In none of them did he observe any mediately produces an interruption of the heart's action, Legallois concluded that its * Weber, Wagner's Handworterbueh, band iii., ° 2nd Abtlieil, p. 44. * Loc. cit. p. 694. t Ibid- P- 415- &c- f Cerebr. Anatomia Nervorumque Descript. et j Lehrbuoh der Physiologic, band ii. p. 4G4., Usus, p. 195. ct seq. I Dissertat. sur l'lrritabilite', t. i. p. 72. § Mullet's Archiv. 1847, p. 498.