PLACENTA —(Normal Anatomy). 715 clitoris. The nymphae are subject to the same inflammatory and specific disease as the labia, but they more commonly affect the sur- faces than the substance of these parts, which, being of a denser texture than the labia, are not so easily infiltered with the venous, san- guineous, or puriform fluids, that readily collect within the latter. The morbid conditions of the vestibule con- sist chiefly in inflammatory hypertrophy of the vestibular follicles, especially of those which immediately surround the urethral ori- fice and line the sides of the ostium vagina?. They present the appearance of small red gra- nulations. A more decided spongy vascular growth often springs from the border of the urethral orifice, where it forms either a bright red fringe, or a soft tumour, varying in size from a pea to a cherry (vascular tumour of the meatus). The vulvo-vaginal gland and its duct may be the special seat of blennor- rhoea, sometimes of an infecting kind. This may be made to ooze from the orifice of the duct, by pressure behind the labium. The most frequent varieties in the condi- tions of the hymen and ostium vagina have been already noticed.* The vaginal orifice may be nearly or completely obstructed by an adventitious membrane, or by the hymen pre- ternaturally developed. Some of these states are congenital, but others are acquired. In either case, attention is often not called to them until after the establishment of puberty. According to their degree, they interfere with the functions of the vagina, partly or alto- gether preventing intromission, and rendering insemination imperfect or impossible. They impede the exit of the products of conception and the escape of the menstrual fluid. In the latter case, when menstruation is esta- blished, the fluid collects in and dilates the vagina and cervix uteri, and lastly the body of the uterus, and even the Fallopian tubes. Spontaneous rupture of the hymen, or mem- brane, may then occur, liberating the fluid. PLACENTA. The placenta is the organ provided in each pregnancy for the nutrition and respira- tion of the foetus. To this it is connected on its free side by the umbilical cord, while its opposite or attached surface is united to the fundus, sides, or lower part of the body of the uterus by a layer of the decidua. A placenta exists only in the mammalia and in some of the cartilaginous fishes. It is composed of structures derived partly from the ovum and partly from the uterus. The foetal or embry- onal portion is not always furnished by the same portion of the ovum. It is sometimes constructed from the yolk sac, as in certain sharks, and the vessels which ramify in it are then the branches of the omphalo-mesenteric artery and vein. In other cases, as in the mammalia, the chorion supplies the foetal portion, which is here rendered vascular by * See Vagina and Hymen. the umbilical vessels derived from the allan- tois. The maternal or uterine portion of the placenta is furnished by the decidua or lining membrane of the uterus. These two portions, viz., the foetal and the maternal, originally dis- tinct, and, even in their subsequent union, pre- serving a certain independence, become more or less closely connected together by interdigi- tating the one with the other. Their union may be one of mere contact, the foetal portion forming numerous projecting vascular folds which in the form of lamina? or tufts, or single villi, are received into corresponding depres- sions or sulci, equally vascular, formed in the lining membrane of the uterus. Or it may consist in a more intimate conjunction of these parts, such as takes place in man, where the decidua or maternal portion forms a lamina which is spread over and united to the groups of villi that constitute the foetal portion. In the former case at the time of parturition the two portions are separated, the foetal processes being simply drawn out of the recesses which contained them without laceration of either of the tissues. But in the latter, the one part cannot be expelled without carrying a con- siderable portion of the other with it. Form. — The mammalian placenta exhibits numerous varieties of form. In most Rumi- nants it is composed of numerous detached placentulae constituting groups or bosses of vascular villi that project from the surface of the chorion, and are received into correspond- ing cotula? upon the inner surface of the uterus. In the Carnivora the placenta encircles the foetus in the form of a broad flat belt. In Pachydermata, Cetacea, and many other fami- lies, the villi are nearly evenly distributed over the whole surface of the chorion, so that the foetus is everywhere surrounded by placenta. In some liodentia and Quadrumana the pla- centa is double. In man the placenta forms a single discoid organ, which in its natural position is slightly convex upon the outer, and concave upon the inner superficies. Its outline is generally cir- cular or oval; it is sometimes reniform, cordate, or more or less triangular. It is rarely bilobed or multilobed. Dimensions and weight. — The size of the placenta is exceedingly variable, bearing usually a certain proportion to the bulk of the child. A full-sized oval placenta measures 7—7a" in its shorter, and 8—9|" in its longer diameter, and measures 23—24'' in circumference. The thickness is generally greatest opposite to the point of entrance of the funis, where the organ measures commonly 1—but it becomes gradually attenuated towards the margin, which is slightly rounded, measuring here only 2—4"' in thickness. The weight of the placenta ranges from 1.5—30 oz. or more. Foetal surface.—Upon the foetal surface of the placenta are observed portions of the amnion and chorion, together with the root of the funis and the principal branches of the umbilical arteries and vein. Amnion.—-The amnion {fig. 484. am), after furnishing the outer covering of the funis,