RUMINANTIA. 514- is quite distinct, being connected with the sphenopalatine canal at about half an inch from its orbitar orifice. In Moschus the lachrymal bone is large; it does not articulate with the nasal, and there is no facial cavity : the foramen is close to and within the orbi- tal ring (Jig. 330.). In Camelopardalis the bone is moderately large and is separated from the nasal in front by an interspace (Jig. 328.), which, in the single specimen we have dissected, is of a triangular form, and measures an inch and a half in length, and five-eighths of an inch in breadth. According to the experience of Professor Owen this vacant space is invariably present, though not always equally conspicuous. At the orbital ring, midway between the frontal and maxillary lines of articulation, there juts out a small tuberosity, which is bounded on either side by a shallow groove ; and from this point the bone is carried downwards and backwards to form, in conjunction with the molar protuber- ance of the maxillary and the inner border of the malar bone, a shelf-like floor to the an- terior half of the orbit. In the specimen just mentioned there exists but one lachrymal foramen, which is of large size, infundibuliform, and situated nearly an inch distant from the anterior border of the orbital ring. In the Stags the lachrymals are hollowed out on the cheek for the reception of the special suborbital glandular apparatus, and they are of large size, but do not touch the nasals, being separated from them by a very ex- tended membranous interspace (Jig. 329.), In the orbit these bones exhibit relations similar to those indicated in the Giraffe; but there are two foramina, one placed on each side of the lachrymal tuberosity, beneath which they intercommunicate. The posses- sion of "tear-pits," or suborbital sinuses, is not shared by all the Antelopidae, and in those species in which they do occur the degree of depression in the lachrymal bone is very vari- able, being in some comparatively shallow, in others well marked : the same observation applies to the open space situated imme- diately above. Respecting the absence, pre- valence, or coexistence of these morphological peculiarities we may, according to M. F. Cuvier, divide this family into three groups : in the first are to be reckoned those which have both a lachrymal depression and a facial interspace, such as is seen in the Gazelle (A. dorcas, Pallas), the Stein-boc (A. tragulus, Licht.), and the Grys-boc (A. melanotis, Licht.) ; in the second, those possessing the " tearpit," but having no vacant space such as occurs in the genus Catob/epas, the Koba (A. koba, Ogilby), the Cambing-outan (A. Sumatrensis, Desm.), the Chickara {A. quadricornis, De Blainv.), the Caama (A. caatna, Cuv.), and the Bubale (A. bubalis, Pallas) ; in the third, those having the inter- space, but no depression, such as takes place in the Reh-boc (A. capreolus, Licht.), the Chamois (A. rupicapra, Pallas), the Canna (A. areas, P. ), and the Nil-ghau (A. picta, P.). The CEgosceridas have the lachrymals very large and of great length, this being es- pecially the case in the Sheep, where they ar- ticulate with the bones of the nose(i.j%. 335.). The Goats have usually a small open space on the cheek, both of the above genera being provided with a small tubercle at the anterior margin of the orbit. The foramina are placed within the ring and are remarkably large in the Sheep. The lachrymals in Bovidae are of still greater size, and very conspicuous (Jig. 327.); they develope prominent antorbital Skull of the Sheep, viewed laterally. (From Cuvier.) tubercles and have the connecting sutures on the face marked by deeply toothed inter- lineations. There is no membranous inter- space, and the foramen, which is funnel- shaped, is situated at the margin of the orbital ring immediately behind the tubercle. The malar or jugular bones (4) do not offer any very striking peculiarities. They are bulky and strong in the Camelidae, and of great breadth below the orbit: in the Llamas they advance further forward upon the cheek than in the true Camels, and the zygomatic