OVUM. 2nd. In Animals known to be capable of sexual generation ; including two varieties, viz. a. Multiplication of similar individuals, either in a mature or immature condition. b. Multiplication of individuals, generally dissimilar from those producing them, and becoming at last mature or complete in the exercise of the true generative function. Some account of these various forms of the reproductive process, and especially of the last, as established by recent discovery, sup- plementary to that contained in the Article Generation, maybe introduced here, with a view to serve as a foundation for general views of the nature of the ovum, and its relation to the reproductive process in ge- neral. I. Ok the Ovum in general, as related TO THE SEXUAL PROCESS OF GENERATION. The term ovum is in this article entirely restricted to the product of sexual genera- tion. This body is formed in the ovary of the female parent (or in the female organ of a hermaphrodite parent) by a gradual process of growth or development. When it arrives at a state of maturity, it is spontaneously dis- charged from the place of its formation, a process which in the higher animals has re- ceived the name of Ovulation. If left to its own unassisted powers, no organic change of importance follows in the ovum, and it remains incapable of producing an embryo. But if, at or near the time when the ovum, in a state of maturity, leaves the ovary, it be sub- jected to the influence of the male product or sperm by the contact of a very minute portion of that substance, it then undergoes the change of Fecundation, by which it has communicated to it the power of having de- veloped within it a new being specifically resembling its parents. Although there are many great apparent differences in the form and structure of the ova of animals*, yet a general comparison of Fig. 1. Ovarian Ovum of a Mammifer. a, entire ; b, burst, showing the germ-cell, with yolk grannies flowing out of the vitelline meml wane; c,the ovarian ovum at an early stage of its formation, consisting of the germ-eell surrounded by a few yolk granules. * The most important of these will be noticed in a later part of the article. their organisation shows that they consist in nearly all of parts that are essentially the same. These parts in the ovarian ovum are the following, beginning with that which appears most essential : 1st, The Germinal Vesicle, or Germ-cell; a nucleated orgaivc cell of microscopic size, generally situated near the surface of the ripe ovarian ovum : this is embedded superficially in, 2nd, The ViteUus, Yellc. or Yolk, a mass of oleo-albu- minous matter, partly fluid, and partly cellular and granular, generally of propor- tionally much greater size than the germ-cell, and serving to furnish materials for the changes of that body, and for the develop- ment of the new being. Both of these parts are enclosed by, 3rd, The Vile/line, or Yolk- Membrane, a vesicular, nearly structureless, membrane, which contains the rest, and gives to the whole usually more or less of a sphe- rical form. To the assemblage of these parts, constituting the ovarian ovum, and which may be looked upon as most immediately im- portant in connection with the formative pro- cess, there are generally added, after it has left the ovary, and in the progress of its descent through the female passages, some others, such as the albumen, outer membrane and shell of the bird's egg. In their simplest form these additional parts constitute an ex- ternal covering of the egg, to which the name of Chorion is often applied. If the ovum be traced back to its earliest origin in the ovary, it is found to consist at first of the germinal vesicle, germ-cell or its nucleus (Jig. 1, c). To this cell the sub- stance of the yolk is added in the progress of its formation, generally in a gradual manner, but in some animals more suddenly. Fig. 2. Spermatic Filaments (From H. Wagner and Lcuchhardt). a, spermatozoa of the squirrel. b, spermatozoa of the clog, in the interior of the developing cell. The Spermatic Substance, or Sperm of the male, when examined in its state of maturity, as it is applied to the ovum, and effects in it the peculiar change of fecundation, is observed to consist essentially of an immense number of minute bodies, generally consisting of a thicker particle, with a fine filament attached,