279 RESPIRATION. those only in which the external gills are per- sistent throughout the whole term of adult life. Whether temporary, as in the caduci- branchiate, or persistent, as in the perenni- branchiate genera, the branchial organs of amphibia are supported by no skeletal frame- work analogous to that which sustains the soft parts of the breathing apparatus of fishes. They are, essentially, only " productions," un- der a modified form, of cutaneous structures. Contemplated only as a mechanical contri- vance, whether provisional or permanent, up- on which devolves the most important func- tion in the animal economy, it demands a more minute investigation than it has hitherto received at the hands of anatomists. The cartilaginous arches erected on the hyoid bone do not entirely disappear until the internal gills have ceased to be distinguish- able. The circulating system of the decidual branchiae consists, in its earliest stage, of a simple artery and vein ; that is, a loop of one vessel. As the larva grows these two vessels become separated by an intermediate system of capillaries. In the latter phase they offer no remote analogy to the vascular apparatus of the branchiae of fishes. The cardiac centres are composed only of a right auricle and one undivided ventricle ; the left or pulmonary auricle remains unevolved until the organic necessities attendant on growth create a ne- cessity in the system for the exercise of the pulmonary functions. The left auricle is then superadded, and the chamber of the ventricle is partially divided by a median partition, and the embryonic organism reaches the maximum limit of development. The pulseless ventral artery, the resultant of the united afferent vessels of the branchial", undergoes oblitera- tion through disuse. These general observa- tions form no irrelevant introduction to a more special examination of the branchial organs. Temporary external Gills. — The larval branchiae of'the frog and toad are less endur- ing and less complex than those of the sala- mandridae. From the earliest almost to the latest moment of their existence they are furnished with a ciliated epidermis. The gills are not specially ciliated The whole cutaneous surface in the larva of the frog and toad is similarly endowed. The cilia are in active play for some time before the larva emerges out of the egg : an admirable instance of foresight in the provisions of nature. The covering of the external gills of the ranidae is strictly cutaneous. In this situation, as every- where else, the epidermis betrays its real nature by the presence of pigmental cells. It is little less dense than the ordinary covering of the body. Nor does the vascularity of these tem- porary branchiae much exceed that of the rest of the cutaneous surface. These facts pro- claim their provisional character. At first they consist of a single minute iobe. This increases into two and then into several. They are cylindrical, not flattened, processes. They bear a single vessel returning upon itself. In this particular of ultimate structure they dif- fer from the branching of the salamandridae. In these a capillary net-work is constructed between the artery and vein. This greater Fig. 228. One of the (/ills of the Newt viewed transparently. ( Original.) a indicates the right auricle, which with v, the ventricle, constitutes the heart of the true fish ; a' shows the left or pulmonary auricle, which, being superadded to the two former parts, raises the car- diac organ to the reptilian standard, marked by the presence of two auricles and one incompletely par- titioned ventricle; b, b', denote the circuit of the branchial system in conformity with the pisciform tj'pe. This system of vessels being obliterated during the metamorphosis of the larva, the pul- monary vessels (c c') enlarge, the rudimentary lungs at the same time expand, the associated auricle grows in muscularity and dimensions, and the fish rises to the grade of an air-breathing reptile, d, is an enlarged view of the gill of the larva of the newt soon after its escape from the ovum. Secondary processes (d, d, d, d) are extended backwards, which materially multiply the surface. The whole gill is clothed with ciliated epithelium, the cells of which lose their cilia, and become non-vibratile for some time before the cessation of the branchial breathing, and the oblong-cilia-bearing cells (e) are transmuted into epidermal scales ( /) entirely destitute of cilia. elaboration coincides with their longer dura- tion. What is ephemeral in purpose is tem- porarily formed. This is nature's workman- ship. They consist literally of small pro- longations of'the skin, which is everywhere, as here, ciliated. At the moment of their fullest development, the larval branchiae of the frog consist of four filamentary lobes. These are sessile upon ttie body or stem of the branchiae ; they are somewhat granular on the surface, and slightly irregular in form. There is also frequently a short additional branch at the base of the posterior one. In these interesting organs the movement of the blood is readily demonstrated. It is a beauti- ful spectacle. It advances in a single current along one side and returns along the other. No sooner have these exquisite organs at- tained their greatest development than they begin to diminish in size. They become ob- tuse, and are gradually so reduced as to be withdrawn within the branchial cavity, and concealed by a little operculum of the integu- ment. The nature of this change of structure, which attends the transition of the branchiaa from the external to the internal condition, has never yet been defined by anatomists. It will be immediately described. The external Gills of the Salamandrida? ex- ceed the former in si?e, in the number of the appended lobules and in the complexity of T 4,