OVUM. [87] more firmly united towards the external surface. This circumstance has given rise to the belief among some observers in the existence of an additional delicate membrane enclosing the yolk-mass ; but the most attentive observa- tion by Bischoff, Wharton Jones, myself, and others has failed to detect such a membrane ; and there is reason to think that the con- fident belief in its existence has had its origin in part at least in a desire to establish a more complete analogy between the ovum of birds and Mammalia, and to find accordingly a vitelline membrane as well as a chorion present in the ova of the latter. The germinal vesicle is usually about a sixtli of the diameter of the whole ovum ; but it is sometimes larger, or between a fifth and a fourth. It possesses a delicate membranous wall of a spherical or spheroidal form and ho- mogeneous structure : it is barely possible to observe the double line of the thickness of this wall witli the quarter of an inch lens in the microscope. In most animals the ger- minal vesicle is readily distinguishable from the rest of the ovum by its superior clear- ness, excepting in those instances in which it is hidden by the great opacity of the yolk- substance; but then it may generally be made manifest by flattening the ovum by compres- sion between plates of glass. The fluid which fills its cavity, which is generally very clear, contains some minute granules in suspension; and besides these there is apparent within it the macula germinativa or germinal nucleus. This last, which is in general well defined in the mammif'erous ovum, varies slightly in different animals: in some presenting the appearance of a round globule, with a deli- cate circumscribing line almost amounting to a vesicular covering ; but more frequently it consists only of a small spherical or dis- coid mass of fine granules. In a germinal vesicle of -^fa" in diameter, such as that of the rabbit, the diameter of the macula is about one-fourth of that of the vesicle, or inroo"- In the earlier stages of formation of the ovum the germinal vesicle is of smaller size ; but it is then proportionally larger than the other parts. It is the part of the ovum first formed ; the yolk-substance, which is subse- quently deposited in gradually increasing quantity round it, together with the zona, grow at a more rapid rate than the vesicle, and thus the latter remains in the mature state proportionally smaller. As the yolk- substance is at first deposited nearly in equal quantity on every side of the vesicle, it for a time contains the vesicle in its cen- tre ; but as the formation of the ovum pro- ceeds the vesicle is found in general to have approached the surface at one side of the yoik-substance ; and in the mature ovum the vesicle seems to be imbedded in the most com- pact and superficial layer of fine granules of the yolk-substance. This place no doubt cor- responds in Mammalia, as has been ascer- tained in Batrachia, to the point from which after fecundation the first cleavage of the yolk proceeds; but this fact has not yet been deter- mined by observation in the Mammalia, nor has any one as yet succeeded in observing a canal or pore leading from the surface of the yolk-substance towards the germinal vesicle in the mammiferous ovum. Fig. 60*. Ovum of the Babbit from the Fallopian tube with spermatozoa. The accompanying figure is introduced to show the usual position of the spermatozoa in relation to the zona and albuminous layer in the ovum of Mammalia during and after impregnation. This ovum is magnified 250 diameters. It was taken along with five others from the lower part of the Fallopian tube lib or 70 hours after impregnation. The segmentation appears to have proceeded to the fifth stage. There is a thick covering of albumen over the zona, and a number of spermatozoa are represented involved in the albuminous substance; some were also seen on the surface of the zona, and some, varying in number in the different ova observed from five to seven or nine, were clearly ascertained to be situated within the zona on the surface of and in the grooves between the yolk segments. The position of these last is not suffi- ciently clearly represented in the figure. In the situation now described the germinal vesicle, though not by any means firmly fixed, is yet sufficiently embraced by the yolk- substance to prevent it from changing place when the ovum is moved in different direc- tions. In the instances of the more fluid condition of the yolk it flows freely out from within the zona when this has been broken ; but in those ova in which the yolk-substance is more viscid, as in the human ovum, we ge- nerally fail to isolate the vesicle from the rest of the substance. The macula or nucleus appears to be at- tached to the inner surface of the membrane of the germinal vesicle. This is especially seen to be the case in the Pig, in which the macula seems to be somewhat pyriform or pedicalatcd (seefig. 61*). No important changes have been observed M]