411 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. its contents. In the former, it gives a soft- ened, swollen, relaxed, and watery appearance to all the coats of the tube, and especially to its epithelium and submucous areolar tissue. In the latter, we notice certain changes in the fluids poured out upon the inner surface of the tube. The contrast between these fluids and those which are present in health is probably closely analogous to that which obtains in other catarrhs. The specific normal secretion is arrested, and is replaced by a variable (usually a large) quantity of a thin watery fluid. The effusion of this fluid coincides with the detachment of the proper epithelium of the mucous coat from the subjacent base- ment membrane ; a process that is generally followed by the shedding of large numbers of imperfect or abortive cells, which take their origin in the same situation. The admixture of this cell-growth imparts to the catarrhal exsudation its well-known gelatinous or mucous characters, and viscid consistence; properties which the microscope shows are partially clue to the solution and rupture of these delicate cells, causing the escape of their contents into the surrounding fluid. The latter is either transparent, or of a cloudy, whitish, reddish, or grayish colour. The last of these appearances, when not due to an admixture of foreign ingredients, is mainly derived from the quantity of these cells, many of which generally assume more or less of the characters of pus. The reddish hue is due to an admixture of blood, by that process of haemorrhage which so frequently results from congestion in the delicate mucous mem- branes. The puriform variety of inflammation might, at first sight, seem scarcely worthy of dis- tinction from the catarrhal. For the two merge into each other by innumerable grada- tions in the character of their exsudation. And the general tendency of catarrh of the mucous surfaces, to end in the production of pus, is too well known to require an}' com- ment. But while there always seems sufficient reason for distinguishing it as a separate stage of the inflammatory process in the digestive canal, there are circumstances which render it not improbable that the mucous and puri- form inflammations of the intestinal canal are often distinct, both in their origin and nature. Thus there are some catarrhal affections of the bowels, in which lapse of time seems to have no effect whatever in exchanging mucus for pus ; while there are others in which this mor- bid product appears to be formed very speedily, or even at once. And that there are many cases which we should find it difficult to assign to one or other of these divisions, is an objection which would equally apply, not only to all the other varieties just alluded to, but to almost all the classifications we are com- pelled to use in describing the various results of disease on the healthy organism. The presence of pus in any considerable quantity, is of course easily recognized by the glairy consistence and yellow colour it imparts to the exsuded fluid, as well as by its microscopical characters. It is usually ac- companied by a swollen and sodden state of the various textures, such as greatly exceeds that noticed in the catarrhal inflammation. The redness and vascularity of these tissues is sometimes also increased in intensity. Often, however, the bowel acquires a grayish or ashy gray hue; or a dark reddish brown, or even slate-colour. The latter appearances are chiefly characteristic (as Rokitansky points out) of the duration of the disorder. It may be conjectured that these varieties of colour depend upon phenomena of at least three kinds. The paler tint, where not due to an interstitial deposit of pus, seems dependent on an abnormal influence which the disease exercises upon the circulation of the part, obstructing in some way the flow of blood in its vessels; an obstruction which the micro- scope permits one to suspect is rarely due to the mere physical effects of the surrounding exsudation. The various shades of red and brown appear to be determined by the changes undergone by blood, which has either stagnated within the vessels or — what is much more frequent — been extravasated from them. And the darker bluish or blackish tints are evidently caused by a variable quantity of black pigment, which probably forms the last relics of a similar degeneration of the blood, in the shape of masses of accrete (and now insoluble) colouring matter. With ordi- nary care, an admixture of biliary colouring matter can rarely be mistaken for these ab- normal products. The production of pus may, however, take place in a less diffuse form, and by a much more rapid process, than that which causes the discharge of puriform mucus from an inflamed intes- tinal surface. These acute local suppura- tions, as we may call them, often at once strip off the whole of the cell-growth that normally covers the basement membrane of the mucous coat ; and then immediately proceed to erode and ulcerate the subjacent textures. These ul- cerations seem peculiarly liable to form sinuses, by extending in various directions through the loose and yielding submucous areolar tissue. In rare instances, scattered abscesses are found in this situation ;—abscesses which are occasionally so isolated from each other, as to appear due to a process of purulent infec- tion by means of the vessels themselves, and not to any mere extension of a continuous suppurating cavity. Finally, in extreme cases, the whole of the tunics become so in- filtrated with pus throughout, as to form a soft or pulpy yellowish-gray mass ; which breaks or tears up on applying the slightest violence ; and, if life be sufficiently prolonged, becomes converted into a rotten membranous slough. The croupy or diphtheritic variety of inflam- mation is distinguished, as its name implies, chiefly by the greater consistence of its exsu- dation ; which, in well marked cases, forms a more or less solid, opaque, white, or yellow mass, and is generally moulded to the shape of the inflamed surface, as a false membrane