574 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. initial viscus. But it may be displaced from its normal position in either of these cavities under various circumstances. The causes of such displacements are chiefly, inflammation of the surface of the ovary terminating in adhe- sions, displacements of the uterus, and herniae. As a result of inflammation of its peritoneal covering, the ovary may be bound down to the side of the uterus, or Fallopian lube, to the recto vaginal pouch, to the brim of the pelvis, to the colon, to the convolutions of the ileum, or to the omentum. The displacements of the uterus which occasion a dislodgement of the ovary from its normal position are, retroversion, inversion, and procidentia, or complete prolapsus. In retroversion the ovaries are carried downwards along with the uterus into the hollow of the sacrum, where they occupy a position on either side of the principal organ. In inversion of the uterus, the ovaries, to- gether with the Fallopian tubes, fill the in- terior of the artificial pouch, which is formed by the reversement of the organ ; whilst in extreme prolapsus the ovaries, together with the uterus, escape almost entirely from the pelvis, and occupy the sac which is formed by the inverted vagina. But the most remarkable displacements are those in which the ovary constitutes a true hernia. Such a hernia may consist of the ovary only, or may include other organs, as the Fallopian tubes, uterus, intestine or omen- tum. A true hernia of the ovary alone is of comparatively rare occurrence. It may hap- pen on one or on both sides, and may be either congenital or acquired. The celebrated case of Mr. Pott was an example of a double inguinal ovarian hernia. And this appears to be the form under which this singular dis- placement has been most frequently met with. In these cases the ovary constitutes a solid tumour of the size of a pigeon's egg, which may be detained at the ring, or lie within the inguinal canal, or even descend to the labium. An example of this kind of hernia, in which the left ovary has for many years occupied the inguinal canal, has recently come under my notice. Deneux*, who was at the pains to search out all the cases on record up to his time, has collected examples also of crural, ischiatic, umbilical, ventral, and vaginal hernia of the ovary, and to these Kiwisch has added a case of hernia through the foramen ovale. Diseases of the Tunics. Inflammation of the ovarian tunics, and parti- cularly of the peritoneal coat, is most commonly associated with acute puerperal metritis. But inflammation, both in the acute and chronic form, may affect the ovary independently of the puerperal state. The resulting anatomical changes in the coats of the organ are vascular congestion in various degrees ; fibrinous exu- dations upon their surface, followed occa- sionally by the formation of artificial bands or adhesions with surrounding parts ; and * L. C. Deneux, Recherches sur la Heruie de l'Ovaire. 1813. chronic thickening of these coats, whereby the original smooth and even surface, (jigs 368. & 369.) characteristic of the ovary in early life, is lost. When inflammation of the ovary has ad- vanced to the suppurative stage, and this organ is converted into a bag of pus, the coats may have become so attenuated and softened as to burst when the attempt is made to lift the parts from the body after death. Ulceration. — Rupture. — In the case of large collections of fluid within the ovary, as for example in large abscesses or in ordinary ovarian dropsy, the surface of the ovary fre- quently inflames and contracts extensive adhesions with surrounding parts, and if the latter happen to be hollow viscera, such as the intestines, uterus, or bladder, a fistulous communication may be established between them and the sac of the ovary, through a process of ulceration or absorption of the common partition wall, and the contents of the ovary may become discharged externally. Or it may happen that by a similar attenua- tion and rupture, or by a process of ulceration and absorption of these tissues, the ovarian walls give way, in some parts of their free surface, and their contents escape into the abdominal cavity. Hypertrophy of the ovarian tunics is almost constantly observed in considerable enlarge- ments of the organ, from whatever cause they may arise. In the case of large ovarian cysts, before adhesions have been occasioned by the pressure of surrounding parts, the peritoneal coat of the ovary, though much thickened, retains its smooth, shining, external surface. It may be generally stripped off with ease, and displayed as a dense white membrane of unequal thickness, but having undergone no further change than that of a general hyper- trophy of its ordinary component tissues. The tunica albuginea in like manner becomes thickened by simple increase of its ordinary constituents, but in the case of very large, and particularly of unilocular cysts, the cyst wall becomes so intimately blended with the common ovarian investment, that it is impos- sible to determine how much of the now united membranes was originally furnished by the tunica albuginea, or ovarian stroma, and how much by the proper wall of the cyst. The hypertrophy in these cases is often so con- siderable that the boundary walls of a large ovarian cyst may measure one or two inches or even more in thickness in some places. Ossification. — Patches of ossific matter more or less extensive are occasionally found scattered over the surface of ovarian cysts. It is probable, however, that these are de- posited in the first instance upon the inner surface, or in the proper walls of enlarged cysts, and subsequently extend to the proper coverings of the ovary, and that the fibro- cartilaginous degeneration which these cyst walls sometimes exhibit, also commence in the original cyst, and proceed from within outwards. Diseases of the Tissue!,. Hypercemia of the ovary may be limited to