UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 632 sionally brought into view with difficulty. They all contain minute dark granules easily distinguished, and they sometimes exhibit upon their surface slight longitudinal folds or markings. These fibres have an average length of ToVo'> ar|d breadth of s~£oo"- They are deeply imbedded in the uterine substance from which they are with difficulty obtained separate, but they may be commonly seen projecting to the extent of about half their length from the torn margin of the preparation, and they are easily rendered Fig. 434. Smnoth-muscular fibre of uterus. a, fibres united by amorphous matrix; b, separate fibre and elementary corpuscles. (Ad Nat.) visible in its substance by the aid of dilute acetic acid. These fibres do not apparently possess any distinct cell membrane. In very thin sections the ends of the fibres which have been transversely divided are seen as if solid, and the cut fibres do not collapse, nor have I ever been able to detect any appear- ance of a flowing out of fluid contents, which would be the case if the individual fibres con- sisted of a cell wall containing fluid (Jig. 434. a). 2. Round and oval nuclei, or elementary corpuscles. — These measure s<roo" m diame- ter. They are found in many parts inter- mixed with the fusiform fibres, but they are most abundant towards the inner layers of the muscular coat. They are apparently the elementary or embryonic condition of the fusiform fibre-cells just described. For al- though the two extreme forms of round cor- puscles and fusiform fibres are the conditions under which these constituents of the mus- cular coat are most numerously seen, there may yet be traced a sufficient number of apparently intermediate stages to justify the conclusion that the one is but the embryo form of the other; the round corpuscles becoming at first oval, and then being length- ened out into the fusiform state (fig. 434. b). 3. Amorphous or homogeneous connective tis- sue. — A considerable portion of connective tissue exists in certain parts of the uterus in the unformed state, constituting a transparent matrix in which the fibre-cells and nuclei are embedded, and by which they are so inti- mately united together, as to render their isolation, even with the aid of nitric acid, a work of great difficulty. The fibre-cells and nuclei which form the innermost laminae of the muscular coat, as well as the laminae themselves, appear to have scarcely any other connecting medium but this, especially in young subjects, while in the middle and outer- most laminae a large portion of fibrillated tissue is added, and the amorphous substance uniting the individual fibres into bundles is proportionally less in quantity. 4. Fibrillated connective tissue (white fibrous tissue). This, as just stated, is found chiefly among the middle and outer muscular laminae, serving here the purpose of a connecting me- dium between the several layers, and sup- porting the blood-vessels ramifying between them. The presence of this form of fibrous tissue is most readily exhibited by taking a thin perpendicular section from the outer muscular layer, and slightly drawing the la- minae asunder, after submitting the preparation to the action of acetic acid. The layers and bundles of muscular fibre, as shown in Jig. 437., are then seen to be surrounded by, and im- bedded in, a quantity of white fibrous tissue which conceals the fibre-cells, and renders the distinguishing of them difficult. The fibres of this tissue have clear and sharp edges, appear to be of indefinite length, are independent of each other, and are clearly not mere foldings in an amorphous substance. Among them, however, and especially at the points where the laminae are separated, are seen numerous thin flat transparent bundles, marked by deep longitudinal wavy lines, to which the above explanation of the cause of the appearance of wavy lines in this tissue which many physiologists have adopted might be more safely applied. Occasionally these wavy bundles exhibit an appearance of sharp curling lines, such as would indicate the inter- mixture of a small quantity of elastic tissue. 5. Elastic fibrous tissue.—The elastic form of fibrous tissue is also present in the uterus, as just stated, though not in great quantity. Besides the occasional presence of strongly curled fibres there may be seen in many places developed single fibres matted together, of the finer kind, commonl\ known as nucleus fibres; and also more abundantly the peculiar fusi- form formative cells from which these arise. I have frequently had the opportunity of tra- cing these peculiar dark-bordered cells in pro- cess of transformation into the finer elastic fibres, and so far of confirming those views which ascribe to this form of fibre a cell origin. These several tissues together with the uterine vessels and nerves, the former being in great quantity, make up the middle coat of the organ. And it is to the arrangement of these in laminae and bundles which are sepa- rated from each other, and perforated as it were in all directions by numerous vascular channels, that the mottled appearance of the unimpregnated uterus, as seen in sections, is due. The foregoing constituents of the middle uterine coat exist in different proportions in the body and neck of the organ respectively. In the body, notwithstanding the considerable amount of fibrous tissue by which the several component elements are connected together, the muscular fibre, either in its elementary or more developed condition, constitutes the