UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 700 peritoneum (fig. 426. 433. g), the cancer mat- ter does not so easily penetrate through this, not at least until adhesions have formed.* But cancer may commence in the fundus or body, instead of in the cervix, although this is rare ; or it may extend to the uterus from the ovary. In this way extensive dis- organisation of the adjacent parts may occur, the cervix remaining intact.f Cancer, when thus developed, especially in the encephaloid variety, assumes often the form of distinct masses or tumours, rather than of an infiltration of the tissues. These tumours may be imbedded in the uterine walls, or form numerous irregular rounded and sometimes pedunculated masses, variously attached to, or projecting from their surface. On the other hand such a distinct mass formed in the substance of the uterine walls, or beneath the mucous membrane, may in the course of growth push the latter before it, and, subsequently acquiring a stem, may fill the uterine cavity or protrude into the vagina, and constitute a malignant polypus. In most cases of uterine cancer the uterus is the primary, and except in those instances where the disease has spread by direct ex- tension to adjacent parts, it may remain throughout the sole organ attacked. Or uterine cancer may be associated with like formations in the stomach, mamma, ovary, &c, and be developed concurrently with or consecutively to these. Cancroid. Epithelial, cancer. Cauliflower excrescence. — Cancroid of the uterus is li- mited in its commencement to the vaginal portion of the cervix, and presents the follow- ing principal varieties. It may appear under the form of papillary growths, resembling con- dylomata, which spring from the mucous sur- face, and form little compact masses that gradually, by the growth and elongation of the papillae, become soft, pulpy, and brittle, and easily bleed on being touched. After a time a basis of cancroid is developed in the cervical tissues, or the papillary growth appears upon a larger scale, forming a hard, knotiy, and brittle mass, which grows with tolerable ra- pidity, and ultimately more or less fills the vagina or protrudes from the vulva. In form the growth often resembles a cauliflower, to which it was likened by Dr. John Clarke. The surface is of a bright flesh colour, and is covered with small projections or granules. These again are united into larger masses or lobes, set upon short and broad stems, that ultimately coalesce into a common basis formed by one or both lips of the cervix. The whole tumour has a certain firmness and soiidity ; but the superficial granules are so brittle that slight handling causes some to break away, a free haemorrhage resulting. Or the cancroid, after being developed in and beneath the mucous membrane of the cervix in the form of little granular masses, gradually * Dr. West is, I believe, the only author who has hitherto pointed out the true cause of this difference, f See ease, p. 593. breaks through the surface; while in the course of time ulcerations form upon the most prominent portions, and these coalescing, while increased deposits of cancroid take place in the sublying tissues, which in turn are also destroyed, a sore, more or less ex- tensive, is formed that in its further aspect and progress very nearly resembles encepha- loid cancer. Regarding the structure of these cancroid formations, they are, according to Virchow, at the commencement simple papillary growths, and later assume the characters of cancroid. At first they appear in the form of small vil- lous projections from the surface, composed of an outer very thick layer of peripheral epithelial plates, and an inner one of cylinder ephithelium, the interior of the villus consist- ing of large blood-vessels. These vessels are chiefly colossal thin-walled capillaries, which either form simple loops at the extremities of the villi between the layers of epithelium, or ramify in compound loops over the surface, or lastly, present a retiform arrangement. The great size, tenuity, and superficial posi- tion of these vessels explains the profuse dis- charge of watery fluid, and frequent bleedings, which constitute such striking features in the progress of the cauliflower excrescence, as well as the entire collapse and almost total disappearance of those tumours after death, so that only slight traces of them are found on post-mortem examination. At the commencement the papillae are single and close-set, so that the surface, as Clarke describes it, is merely granular. The peculiar cauliflower form is occasioned by the branching of the papilla?, which ultimately form fringes an inch in length. After this superficial process of growth has continued for a certain time, cancroid alveolar spaces begin to be formed at the base, between the fibrous and muscular layers of the organ. At first these appear as simple spaces, with epithelial contents, but later are found alveoli, from whose parietes new papillae spring, which also become ramified, constituting arborescent proliferous growths. Corroding ti/cer.— Here may be noticed an affection of the uterine cervix, whose exact pathological relations have not been deter- mined with sufficient accuracy. The corrod- ing ulcer, first described by Dr. John Clarke, and compared by Rokitansky to a phagede- nic (cancerous) sore of the skin, differs mainly from cancer in the absence of a cancer basis, or of cancerous infiltration of adjacent tissues, while it resembles the destructive march of cancer in its mode of gradually dis- integrating, and destroying the os and cervix, and even portions of the body of the uterus, and extending to the bladder, rectum, and ad- ^icent structures. The characters of this ulcer are those of a ragged, irregular-margined sore, with a brownish or greyish base, lrom which issues a thick purulent or copious watery secretion. The margins and base may be thickened by inflammation, but there are no granulations.