586 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. of the cyst covered by integument are seen to be elevated, and it is in the substance of and beneath such elevations that the fatty tissue and bones are usually found imbedded, whilst the teeth have only their roots concealed, their crowns projecting free above the surface. Origin of the Solid Contents of Ovarian Cysts. —It has been conjectured that these are ex- amples of the " foetus in foetu," or that such remains may be the product of an imperfect ovarian conception. To the former of these suppositions, viz., that such formations result from a cohesion or intus-susception of two or more germs, coincidently impregnated, but of which one only has been perfectly developed, it may be objected that this view fails altoge- ther to explain the circumstance that their formation occurs far more frequently in the ovary than in any other part of the body ; nor does it account for the fact that here a parti- cular class of structures only is developed, whilst in the case of penetration of germs one within the other, various portions of a second fcetus, more or less completely formed, and by no means limited to a certain class of struc- tures, are found within the body of the first. The explanation that these are examples of extra-uterine gestation of the ovarian kind is equally unsatisfactory ; for even if the pos- sibility of such a form of gestation be ceded, the fact alone that hair, teeth, and even bones, con- tained in cysts of the kind under consideration, are never found associated with the smallest trace of the membranes peculiar to the ovum, would be fatal to this view. But it can be shown further that such structures are observed in cases where previous impregnation was highly improbable, as in the examples where they were found in conjunction with a perfect hymen*, or where it was impossible, as in the case related by Dr. Baillie of a girl aged 12, whosegenerative organs were still undeveloped, but one of whose ovaries was filled with hair, teeth, and fatty matter. The two additional circumstances that there is scarcely any portion of the body, such as the subcutaneous tissue, the brain, lung, kid- ney, bladder, and testis, in which similar struc- tures have not been found, and that such formations, though most commonly found in the ovary, are yet not even limited to the fe- male, but have been also observed in the male, completes the catalogue of objections to the 'argument, in whatever form it may be ad- vanced, that these productions are in any way the offsprings of a spermatic force newly ap- plied to the organisms in which they are formed. The discovery of the fact that a tegumen- tary structure forms the basis out of which many of these products spring, appears to carry us a step further towards comprehending the mode in which some at least of the solid con- tents of ovarian cysts are formed, by exhibiting a connecting link between structures which are elsewhere naturally associated, but it ob- viously fails to satisfy any inquiry as to the * Royal Coll. of Surg. Pathol. Collect, prep. No. 2625. nature or quality of the cell-force which de- termines the development of such products. Foetus, more or less perfect, contained in the Ovary (?)— OvarianGestation.—Graviditas Ova- ria.—Few facts in physiology have been more readily assumed without sufficient examina- tion than that the fcetus may be developed within the proper structures of the ovary, and so constitute a form of extra-uterine gestation. So long as it was generally believed that the coitus was the efficient cause of the escape of the ovum from the ovary, and that therefore the act of impregnation preceded that of ovu- lation, there was nothing in such a belief to challenge inquiry as to the probability of the ovum being first impregnated, and still by some mischance detained within the proper struc- ture of the ovary, where it might become de- veloped. But more accurate views of the nature of ovulation and of the true seat of impregnation have led to a stricter inquiry regarding the seat of supposed ovarian gesta- tion. Among the earliest to call in question the accepted views upon this subject was M. Vel- peau, who, previously a believer in ovarian gestation, laid before the Philomathic Society, in 1825, four examples supposed to be of this kind. An expression of doubts as to the pos- sibility of this fact on the part of many mem- bers led to a more perfect dissection of the parts, in which examination MM. Blainville and Serres were appointed to assist. It was ascertained with certainty that three of the tumours were external to the ovary. With the fourth more difficulty was experienced ; but at length, after isolating the Fallopian tube, which was sound, the detritus of conception was found to occupy a special sac betvveen the peritoneal and proper coat of the ovary, which was entirely distinct. In the following year, M. Geoffroy St. Hilares, in a report upon the subject of Bres- chet's Memoir upon " Interstitial" Extra- Uterine Gestation, expressed his entire disbe- lief in the ovarian variety, and the same views have been advocated by M. Pouchet in his work on Spontaneous Ovulation, and in this Cyclopasdia by Dr. Allen Thomson *, who has there stated the general objections to the doctrine of an ovarian form of gestation. The cases which appear to favour the belief in ovarian gestation may be divided into two classes, viz., those in which the embryo is yet small, and is contained in a sac of mode- rate size, which has not yet contracted adhe- sion with adjacent parts ; and those in which the fcetus has attained or approached to full growth, and the sac by which it is surrounded has already contracted adhesions. All the examples that I have had the oppor- tunity of dissecting, or of seeing examined, have been of the latter class, and of these it may at once be said that nothing can be learned from them which could determine, with any degree of accuracy, so difficult a ques- tion as that under consideration. * Vol. ii. p. 456.