UTERUS —(Abnormal Anatomy). C89 (Jig. 433.) it will be seen, that while the normal cervix projects obliquely into the upper part of the vagina, the fornix or blind extremity of that canal forms the actual termination of the tube, so that this arrangement, while it tends materially to the preservation of the os and cervix uteri from injury during congress, at the same time exposes the cul de sac of the vagina to a certain amount of pressure, which various circumstances, such as relative short- ness of the vagina and other obvious condi- tions, may render injurious. But exactly over this spot lies the mass of lax fibrous tissue in question, the meshes of which become easily infiltrated under inflammation by serous or fibrinous fluids supplied by the vessels, which sections of this region show to be so abundant in the neighbourhood. (Fig- 429.) Perimetrial inflammation occasionally reaches the suppurative stage, and in this way are formed some of those abscesses which burst through the cervix, or form collections of matter between the folds of the broad liga- ment. 3. Pathological conditions of the muscular or proper coat. a. Diminished and increased consistence of the uterine substance, although generally re- sulting from obvious morbid processes, is yet sometimes found without any apparent dis- ease of the tissue. Diminished consistence may be found in various degrees, from a slight friability or softness to a nearly complete pulpiness (mar- ciditas). In these cases the texture of the uterus may be pale and exsanguine, or in a state of hyperaemia, with occasionally apo- plectic effusion. Rokitansky associates the latter condition with thickening, and some- times ossification of the uterine arteries. b. Parenchymatous inflammation of the uterus. Metritis. Metritisparenchymatosa.—Inflamma- tion of the substance of the uterus, which in the puerperal state is so commonly fatal, seldom leads to death in the unimpregnated. Hence opportunities for investigating the ana- tomical condition of the organ in the non- gravid state under conditions of inflammation are of comparatively rare occurrence. From such opportunities, however, aided by what may be observed during life, the following may be concluded as to the changes which inflammation produces in the muscular and fibrous coat. Under acute parenchymatous inflammation the whole organ becomes increased in bulk, and at the same time redder and softer. On section blood flows freely from the divided vessels, and the tissues are found permeated by serous infiltration. Sometimes the highly congested vessels have in parts given way, and ecchymoses or larger apoplectic collections have resulted. If no commensurate resorption of these effusions takes place the organ continues of abnormal size. This is more particularly ob- servable when a portion of the uterus, as the body or cervix, has been repeatedly inflamed. The latter, especially, remains enlarged. The Supp. os tincEe is patulous, and one or both lips of the cervix present an cedeinatous hardness, and occupy a larger space than usual in the fornix of the vagina. Occasionally inflammation of the uterine parenchyma reaches the suppurative stage, resulting in collections of matter which may escape into the peritoneum between the folds of the broad ligament, or externally by the vagina or rectum. Chronic inflammation produces likewise a general enlargement of the uterus, but more commonly the cervix is principally or exclu- sively involved, and the resulting enlargement is especially observable in its vaginal portion, the lips of which become increased in breadth, or elongated and prominent. When chronic inflammation affects, on the other hand, the parenchyma of the body of the uterus chiefly, the walls of this part become thickened and indurated, while the cavity undergoes enlargement such as is exhi- bited by the ventricles in excentric hypertro- phy of the heart. Under chronic inflammation the uterine tissue becomes indurated, so that upon section it grates beneath the knife. This induration is occasioned chiefly by l^pertro- phy of the fibrous element of this coat of the uterus. c. Fibroid. Tumor fibrosus uteri. Fibro- muscular tumour. Hard flesh// tubercle of the uterus (Baillie).—These and numerous other titles have been employed by different authors to designate a form of degeneration of the uterine tissue which is so common that, ac- cording to the often quoted calculations of Bayle, it may be found in every fifth case of women who die after the age of thirty-five.* Fibroid of the uterus has for its basis the same structure as fibrous tumours in general,+ The surface of a section presents to the naked eye a peculiar mottled appearance, caused by the presence of numerous white lustrous bands intersecting in all directions a more homogeneous basis substance, which in these uterine formations has always a greyish or light brown colour, the latter being especially distinct in spirit preparations. The difference between these two, however, is more appa- rent than real, consisting, as Paget suggests, rather in t he mode of arrangement than in an actual differentiation of the component struc- tures. These consist chiefly of very slender filaments of fibrous tissue " undulating or crooked," and exhibiting various degrees of development in different specimens, being in some large and wavy, and in others very short, and often intermixed with cytoblasts and nu- clei. Along with this fibrous basis is found a variable amount of smooth muscular fibre, which in some cases, especially in the polypi hereafter noticed, forms the chief bulk of the * Dr. West has furnished some interesting sta- tistics upon this subject. (Lectures on the Diseases of Women, Pt. i. p. 277. 18513.) f For an account of these see Paget's Surgical Pathology, Vol. II. Lect.V.; and also for those of the uterus, Bidder, iu Walter ueber firbrose Korper der Gebarmutter. Y Y