644. UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. ncrally softer and less tenacious in proportion as they are younger. c. The uterus during menstrual life. — The average duration of menstrual lite is thirty years. It occupies usually the interval be- tween the ages of fifteen and forty-five. The uterus in healthy women, throughout this ens- ure epoch, is maintained in a state of perfect aptitude for the reproductive office, being, so to speak, under the control of the ovaries, with which it manifests so direct a sympathy, that every periodic change in the condition of the latter is, so far as the present state of our knowledge justifies the assertion, represented by a corresponding preparatory change in the former. But the menstrual phenomena being reserved for subsequent notiee, it is only ne- cessary to remark here that the uterus under- goes usually a slight alteration in size about the time of each catamenial flow, when its tissues are opened up,and become more spongy from the larger afflux of blood to them. The lining membrane appears to suffer a va- riable amount of disintegration. In the uterus of women who have died during menstruation, the interior may present a slightly roughened appearance in certain places, or this may ex- tend over the greater portion of the cavity. In women who menstruate painfully, it not infrequently happens that the entire uterine lining, to a greater or less depth, is exfoliated and discharged ; the process of expulsion being accompanied by much suffering and a greater escape of blood than occurs in ordi- nary menstruation. These dysmenorrhoeal membranes (Jig. 443.) present all the charac- Fig. 443. Portion of the lining membrane of the uterus cast off during painful menstruation. (Ad Nat.}* teristics of a true decidual structure, having upon their inner side, or that which had cor- responded with the uterine cavity, the fine cribriform surface occasioned by the orifices of numerous utricular glands, and upon the re- verse side the usual rough flocculent appear- * For this illustration I am indebted to Dr. Oldham. ance characteristic of the outer surface of membranes ordinarily discharged, along with the ovum, in abortion. In other respects, the uterus, throughout menstrual life, exhibits little or no alteration in form or bulk, but continues to present those characteristics of constant aptitude for its greatest and most important office, which have been explained in the description already given of the adult organ ; and these characteristics, if no pregnancy intervenes, it preserves until the period arrives at which menstruation, to- gether with the capacity for procreation, finally ceases. d. The uterus during gestation. The fully developed uterus. —=- The gravid uterus is only another term for the fully developed uterus ; for, although the latter designation is com- monly applied to the unimpregnated organ, when it has reached its ordinary size in the adult, the uterus does not attain the greatest amount of development of which it is nor- mally susceptible until the term of gestation is complete. The case of the uterus is perhaps in certain respects sui generis; for it is the case of an organ which, having reached a certain period of growth, remains in a nearly passive con- dition, so far as mere growth is concerned, until a further amount of development is evoked by a new stimulus. There are, in- deed, two notable periods in the history of the development of the uterus, at which the in- fluence of such an additional stimulus is per- ceptible. For, first, as already shown, the uterus, like the mamma, remains without any material change from birth to puberty. The establish- ment of the latter condition is characterised by a correspondingly rapid evolution of both, these organs. But the pubertal age may not arrive ; the individual may retain, in respect of reproductive capacity, the p.re-pubertal con- dition ; and the uterus, in these cases, does not proceed beyond its first stage of develop- ment.* Again, the second stage, having been reached at puberty, may be continued through men- strual life, until, with the cessation of pro- creative power, the period of natural decline in the organ commences, and this is the con- dition which the part retains during the pe- riods or intervals when it is not employed in the process of reproduction, as well as through- out life in those cases in which it is never so employed. This degree of growth of the ute- rus is evoked by the full development of the ovary and the commencing discharge of ova, and is coexistent with the establishment of menstruation and the other conditions of pu- berty. But a third stage of development of the uterus is produced normally by the stimulus of impregnation, and partly by the growth of the ovum, and abnormally by the formation of * Compare^, 465., representing the pre-pubertal uterus in ;i woman aged nineteen, with fig. 442., of the uterus of a child at three years.