707 VAGINA — (Abnormal Anatomy). z z 2 tlie vesica], and hemorrhoidal, and uterine plexuses ; the blood being finally collected by large veins which empty themselves into the internal iliacs. Figs. 482. and 483. The Lyvipatics are those which are common to the bladder, cervix uteri, and lower part of the rectum. They terminate in the pelvic glands. The Nerves are derived from the pelvic plexus, which contains a large proportion of tubular fibres, derived from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves. Uses of the vagina. — The vagina, during copulation, serves for the reception of the male intromittent organ, and for the lodge- ment of the seminal fluid in such a posi- tion as to facilitate the introduction of that fluid into the uterus.* During menstruation the vagina gives passage to the catamenia. In labour it transmits the foetus and secun- dines, and subsequently the lochia. Abnormal Anatomy of the Vagina. Anomalies.— Congenital absence of the vagina is not very rare. The entire vagina may be wanting ; so that on separating the labia no trace appears of a canal leading to the uterus ; or the canal may be so narrow as only to admit a probe or quill; it may be very short, terminating in a eul de sac, or it may open into the urethra or rectum. The latter malformation has not always prevented preg- nancy, even when combined with an entire absence of the external organs. A vertical septum occasionally divides the vagina through a greater or less portion of its course. This, when complete, produces the double vagina with double hymen ( fgAQ\.). The septum may cease at a variable distance from the vaginal orifice, the fornix and upper part remaining single ; or, contrarily, the for- nix may show signs of division, while the lower part of the tube remains single. The septum is almost invariably in the median line, but the more frequent use of one or other channel in parturition or sexual con- junction may give to them an appearance of unequal development. Transverse membranous septa sometimes pass across and obstruct the vagina more or less completely. These, though they do not necessarily prevent impregnation, for they are seldom absolutely imperforate, may so far impede labour as to require division. They occur at various points within the canal ; at a short distance from the orifice, or as high up as the level of the utero-sacral ligaments. They consist, for the most part, of natural folds unusually developed, or they result from accident, as inflammation or injury consequent on difficult labours. Some of those constric- tions which occur near the orifice are doubt- less the consequence of inflammation of the vulva and vagina in infancy.-j- Atresia of the vagina may thus be acquired, or it may be * See Insemination, p. 671. t These cases are sometimes recorded as examples of imperforate hymen. congenital. When the obstruction is com- plete, retention of the menstrual fluid results. Displacements. — The vagina may be alto- gether displaced from the pelvis, or it may simply have its normal direction altered within that cavity. Prolapsus of the vagina occurs sometimes alone, but it is more often com- bined with procidentia or inversion of the uterus (fig. 469.). In any of these cases, if the prolapse is permanent, the vaginal surface loses altogether the character and appearance of a mucous membrane, acquiring a thick cuticular covering, and assuming the condition of ordinary integument. In retroversion of the uterus, the vagina is drawn upwards and for- wards, its extremity lying behind the pubic symphysis, (Fig.i68.) In hernia of the uterus, the vagina is diverted from the median line to- wards one or other side of the pelvis, and may be partly included in the hernial sac. Solutions of continuity.— Laceration of the vaginal walls may occur during obstructed la- bour, and is then frequently associated with rupture of the uterine cervix. Fistulous openings into the bladder, and sometimes into the rectum, are occasioned by sloughs con- sequent on protracted labour. Fistulous cloaca? are also commonly formed in advanced stages of cancer (Jig. 479 ). Inflammation of the vagina. — Vaginitis. — This occurs both in the acute and chronic form. It may present the character of be- nignant catarrh, or of a specific blenorrhcea (gonorrhoea). In the more acute form the mucous membrane is highly vascular, and is sometimes excoriated, from excessive shed- ding of epithelium. The discharge presents variable characters, from the viscid yellow purifo'rm mucus, to the creamy, milk-like, or thin, nearly watery, fluid (Jeucorrhcea). Croupous exudations occasionally form upon the vaginal mucous membrane, chiefly in con- nexion with typhoid exanthematous or puer- peral processes. Epithelial desquamation. — Occasionally the entire epithelial coat of the vagina is thrown off; forming a membranous cast of that canal. Several of these casts may be found, one contained within another. Their discharge may be accompanied by symptoms resembling those of dysmenorrhoea ; but more particularly by an intolerable itching or sensa- tion of crawling in the vagina. They are composed entirely of dense vaginal tessel- lated epithelium.* Serous and sanguineous infiltration into the mucous and fibrous coats of the vagina takes place occasionally during protracted labour, producing considerable tumefaction, and eon- sequent narrowing of the canal. In this state * I have given a description, with several illus- trative figures, of these epithelial casts of the vagina, some of which include also the epithelium of the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, in Beale's Ar- chives of Medicine, for April, 1858. I suspect that the nature of these has been overlooked, and that they have been confounded with the true dysmenor- rhoeal membranes which consist of the lining mem- brane of the uterus. Sec fig, 443.