457 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. By the term centre, Volkmann seems to mean an organ which serves as a regulating appa- ratus, and by which several separate and simple acts are combined into a single com- plex organic act. The contraction of a muscle is a simple act; in the act of respiration we have the contractions of many muscles com- bined into a single complex act, their com- bination being dependant on a power situated in the medulla oblongata, which part of the nervous system is therefore termed their cen- tral organ. The question then in regard to the independence of the sympathetic is, whe- ther, in the sphere of the organic nerves, there be such combinations, and whether these have their centre in the brain and spinal cord, or in the sympathetic. The brain is the centre of all psychical acts ; it is therefore evident that the sympathetic, in so far as regards all the phenomena of sensation occurring in its sphere, must be regarded as dependent on the brain. But after the brain and spinal cord have been destroyed, does the sympathetic still remain active, and in such a state of activity as implies the co-operation of a cen- tral organ ? Muscular motion implies the activity of the motor nerves, and the activity of those muscles which are supplied by the sympathetic must imply the activity of sym- pathetic nerve fibres. The action of the heart, however, as well as the circulation, sometimes continues for weeks after the de- struction of the central masses of the nervous system. Thus Bidder removed with great care the arches of the second cervical ver- tebra, so that little blood was lost during the operation, and then completely destroyed the spinal cord. Frogs treated in this way often lived six weeks, sometimes ten, the circula- tion, as seen in the web of the foot, remain- ing at the same time active, and not differ- ing from that in uninjured frogs. The heart beat powerfully and quickly: in a freshly- killed frog, in winter, the heart pulsated thirty- five times in the minute ; while in a frog, the spinal cord of which had been destroyed twenty-six days previously, the pulsations were forty per minute. When the brain and spinal cord were destroyed, the medulla ob- longata being left, frogs were retained in life until the sixth day ; and when the entire cen- tral organs of the nervous system were re- moved, they lived until the second day; the rapidly ensuing death in the latter case being due, according to Volkmann, to the effects produced upon the respiration. Within a few weeks after the destruction of the spinal cord the muscles of animal life were found to have lost their irritability in a marked degree, and still later no contraction could be produced in them by application of chemical or me- chanical stimuli; the heart, however, in such cases still continued to pulsate eleven times in the minute, and retained its property of responding to external stimuli. The intes- tinal canal, in like manner, retained its irrita- bility ; application of stimuli giving rise to contractions which were sometimes of a local nature, at other times extended for a con- siderable distance on either side of the part stimulated. Digestion, in like manner, suffers but little from destruction of the central parts of the nervous system ; healthy frogs, and others, which had been operated upon, were, after being starved for a considerable time, fed with worms, and kept in separate glasses. In the one, as well as in the other, the worms were found after twenty-four hours to be fully digested, and the stomach and duodenum were filled with coloured mucus; such was observed to be the case even in animals whose spinal cord had been destroyed twenty-six days previously. The secretion of urine also continues : when in animals in which the brain or spinal cord had been removed, the bladder was emptied by external pressure upon the walls of the abdomen, in a short time it again became filled and distended to an enormous size, unless emptied in the way just mentioned. It had been observed by Valentin and Stilling that after destruction of the spinal cord in the frog, different derangements in the nutritive processes ensued ; there were frequently ob- served dropsical swellings, especially of the limbs. On these also, sores formed, which often penetrated as far as the bones. In re- ference to these results, Volkmann states that they are, as shown by Bidder, chiefly accidental. Bidder found that when the bottom of the vessels in which the frogs were kept was covered, not with water, but with moist grass or moss, no such degenerations ensued. The rapid death which ensues in warm-blooded animals, when operated upon in the above manner, depends, according to Volkmann, upon the difficulty of sufficiently keeping up the respiration by artificial means, as well as upon the loss of blood and diminu- tion of animal heat. The circumstance, then, that a certain number of the vital phenomena disappear suddenly and irrevocably after de- struction of the spinal cord and brain, while others continue for a greater or shorter time, and this very perfectly, can only de- pend, according to Volkmann, upon the cir- cumstance that the brain and spinal cord is a necessary condition for the existence of the former, but not for that of the latter. If the latter depend upon certain nervous organs, and if the nerves of the vegetative organs do not require, as a fundamental condition of their activity, the presence of the brain and spinal cord, the only possible centres on which they can depend for this are the ganglia of the sympathetic. The sympathetic and its ganglia, then, constitute, according to Volk- mann, an independent whole, from which proceed the impulses to as well as the regula- tion of those actions which continue after the brain and spinal cord have been destroyed, and which notwithstanding require the co- operation of a central organ. That the move- ments in question require such an organ, and are not produced by the mere stimulus of the blood, faeces, air, &c, in the same way as the twitchings of the muscles in a frog's leg are produced by galvanism, is shown, according