TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 483 I i 2 A careful study of the scales of that remark- able animal the Sturgeon, which exhibits in this, as in so many other characters, its inter- mediate position between Teleostian and Pla- giostome fishes, appears to me to throw still further light upon the difficulties of scale development. The scales of the sturgeon are large, slightly convex, rhomboidal plates, set obliquely in the skin, so that, while the posterior two-thirds of their surface are bare and hard, the anterior third becomes gradually softer from the pro- longation of the integument over it. The posterior surface continues hard up to its sharp edge, but it is supported below by a soft thick layer of integument, which passes on to the an- terior soft coat of the scale behind, and thus masks the real overlapping of this scale by the posterior edge of that which precedes it {fig. 310. b). Fig. 310. Scale of Sturgeon. a, one of the detached tubercles highly magni- fied ; b, the entire scale. The surface of the scale is shining and glassy. It is marked by a median ridge, whence it shelves upon each side, and by an elegant sculpturing produced by raised, hard ridges of the same nature, which radiate from the margins centrally, for about a fourth of the semi-diameter of the scale. In the region within this zone, the ridges gradually lose their regularity, the radiating lines anastomo- sing with one another and forming an elegant polygonal network. The soft surface of the in- tegument of the anterior portion of the scale, is raised into many minute papilla? (Jig. 310. a, a), which may be followed for some distance on to the hard portion. Furthermore, it exhibits scattered round spots, with projecting centres of the same appearance as the ridges, and like them feeling hard to the touch. If asection of thescalebemade (j?g.310. is), its under surface will be found to have a conca- vity corresponding with the convexity of the up- per. If the section has passed through one of the ridges, it is seen that the osseous tissue of the scale is of two kinds ; a superficial homoge- neous-looking, dense, comparatively thin layer, and a deep, thick, laminated portion. If traced from the centre of the scale to its an- terior circumference the superficial layer loses its continuity, breaking up into conical bodies, which are the sections of the detached calca- reous spots mentioned above; the deep layer thins out, its lamina? gradually becoming fewer, and leaving a soft membranous space between their upper surface and the under surface of these spots. In the centre of the scale again, a series of rounded apertures are seen in a tangential section, the sections of canals which radiate through the scale and become more numerous and wider towards its margin. They are connected below with vertical canals passing through the laminated layer, and anteriorly they pass into the wide membranous space above referred to. There is no histological difference of any importance in the structure of these two layers ; each is composed of true bone with radiated cor- puscles ; the upper being more dense and ho- mogeneous, the lower less dense and lami- nated. If a section be made through several of the ridges of the upper surface, it will be seen that they are entirely composed of the hard homo- geneous osseous tissue. On their sides, how- ever, and in the valleys between them, more or less of soft integument remains, whose pigment masses give the valleys a dotted ap- pearance. On the other hand, a section of one of the detached tubercles shows, except in its consisting of osseous tissue only, that it is identical with a single spine of the Skate (fig. 310. a). It appears to me, therefore, that there can be no doubt that the ganoid, over- lapping scale of the sturgeon commences by an isolated p'acoid spine; that other spines are developed around this, and their bases uniting, constitute a placoid scale, between whose elevations little valleys, bridged over by the soft integument,remain ; that to the base of such a plate as this, continual additions of osseous laminae are made, the radiating Haver- sian canals being left between the first lamina? and the superficial plate ; and finally that, extending in size, the anterior face of this complex scale becomes over-ridden by the preceding one. Complicated as it may ap- pear, it is obvious that all this structure results from the continued endogenous growth and union of the primary ecderonic calcareous deposits, which constitute, as it were, so many centres of ossification for the large scale. The final structure, however, is (if we leave out of consideration its histological character), to all intents and purposes, that of a cycloid scale ; and its mode of growth is identical with that of the large cycloid scale described by Prof. Williamson. The increase of the scale is concentric; addition being made to its posterior, as well as to its anterior edge and surface ; the only difference being, that in the latter case the development of the upper layer is less rapid than that of the lower, while in the former