STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 347 large intestine. An" allusion has already been made to the fact that, in many animals, they appear to usurp a portion of the gastric cavity. While the importance which this wide distri- bution would imply, is confirmed by their im- mense number ; which is such that we may estimate their aggregate surface as from ten to fifteen times that of the cylinder of intes- tine into which they open. Each tube may be described as a hollow cylinder, having a length which is about five times its width, and ending below in a rounded Fig. 256. Intestinal tubes from the jejunum, asseen in a vertica section. {Magnified 80 diameters.) a, Limitary or basement membrane; b, nuclei of the columnar cells which line its interior; c, calibre or cavity of the tube ; d, mouths of the tubes opening into the general cavity of the intestine; e, blind extremities of the tubes, corresponding to the sub- mucous areolar tissue. blind extremity. Its average diameter is about ^Tio-th of an inch, except at its orifice, where it is somewhat wider. The lower part of the tube is often slightly enlarged: and rarely it appears to bifurcate. But while it is doubtful whether these appearances can be depended upon *, it is certain that they are not sufficiently marked or frequent to alter the above general description.-j- This cylindrical tube is composed of base- ment membrane anil epithelium. The former constituent needs no special description. The latter is a single layer of short columnar cells. It clothes the whole interior surface of the tubes ; and becomes continuous, at their upper extremities, with the epithelium covering the villi, the constituent cells of which generally appear to be somewhat longer in shape. The cylindrical cavity bounded by these cells has * Ses foot-note to p. 321. f A more valid exception to the above statement may be found in the upper part of the duodenum of some of the domestic Mammalia; in whom many of these tubes divide, a little below the surface, into three or four smaller ones. This condition may bo regarded as a transition from the structure of either the pyloric tubes, or the clustered glands of Brunn, to that of the ordinary intestinal tube. From the appearances offered by the cylindrical epithelium that lines their interior, the first of these conjec- tures may be regarded as the more probable of the two. a diameter which amounts to about one-fourth the width of the entire tube. The arrangement of these tubes so precisely recalls that of the gastric glands into which their structure appears sometimes to merge, as scarcely to require any separate descrip- tion. Like these, they are placed vertically side by side, in a sparing quantity of dense fibrous matrix; and are imbedded by their lower extremities in a layer of a similar ap- pearance. The latter contain much unstriped muscle, the characters of which can be seen Fie. 257. Vertical and longitudinal section of the small intestine in the lower part of the jejunum, showing the general arrangement of' its coats. (Magnified [>() diameters.) a, villi ; b, intestinal tubes; c, submucous areolar tissue; rf, circular fibres of the muscular coat; e, longitudinal fibres, external to these, covered by peritoneum. g even more distinctly than in the analogous gastric structure. The aggregate mass of these vertical tubes forms the great bulk of the mucous membrane. So that a vertical section of this tunic exposes a dense pallisade of tubes, the depth of which corresponds to the thickness of the membrane: while a trans- verse one shows that the interstices of the cylinders are only occupied by a scanty matrix enclosing numerous vessels. The chief interruption to their presence is caused by the racemose glands, villi, and fol- licles, which will shortly be described. The ducts of the first of these three structures merely occupy a certain portion of space which would otherwise be taken up by follicles. But the two latter encroach upon the surface of the mucous membrane much more con- siderably. And since it is only between the villi that we find the intestinal tubes, so the number of such tubes which occupy the inter- vals of these processes must necessarily cor- respond to the thickness with which the latter are strewed over the surface. Over the more projecting parts of the follicles, the tubes are also absent; in a circular space which is sur- rounded by a ring of apertures. The latter belong to the inflected upper extremities of