308 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. the trunk in which they are enclosed ; and it limits, permits, and facilitates those move- ments, which it is chiefly the office of the second to execute. The third is the most important, since it forms the complex secreting and ab- sorbing surface, upon which the functions of the canal mainly depend. Between these three tunics are interposed two layers of areolar tissue; containing vessels, nerves, and lympha- tics for their supply. The various modifica- tions undergone by these constituents of the tube, in the three segments just distinguished as the stomach, small intestine, and large in- testine, will form the chief features of the fol- lowing description. The stomach is the widest and most di- latable part of the alimentary canal. Its form varies greatly in different indivi- duals. Removed from the body, and mode- rately distended, it generally takes the shape represented in fig. 240.*; — a shape which is often compared to that of a bagpipe, and may be best described as a bent cone, the concave aspect of which is joined by a tube at one- fourth of the distance from its base. In it we distinguish an anterior and a posterior surface; a superior and an inferior border; a right and a left extremity; together with the cardiac and pyloric apertures, by which it communicates with the oesophagus and duodenum respec- tively, and thus becomes continuous with the remaining portions of the digestive canal. The description of these different parts will vary, according to the full or empty state Fig. 240. H{ 111 w Stomach and duodenum. The tube has been everted and inflated, and its mucous membrane dissected off, so as to show the subjacent muscular coat. oy, cardiac orifice; b h, pyloric valve; a e b, lesser curvature, or upper border; g dfc h, greater curvature, or lower border. (The dotted lines joining a e, e b, and c h are intended to illustrate the mode in which extreme distention of the organ affects these curves); g d, cardiac pouch; b h c e, pyloric pouch. (The surface to the right of the line which would unite c g represents the oblique, that to the left of this line the circular, layer of the muscular coat of the stomach.) of the organ. Thus in the latter con- dition, the stomach is flattened vertically ; so that its anterior and posterior mucous surfaces come into contact, while its upper and lower margins form thin edges, each of which really deserves the title of a " border." But when distended, any transverse section of the organ would be nearly a circle ; and hence its borders and its surfaces disappear by merging into each other. Its uppermost part, however, is still distinguished as the lesser curvature (a, e, b, fig. 242.), and the lower as the greater curvature (g, d,f, c, h). It will be seen that the general concavity of the former curve is especially marked in its first half or two-thirds ; at the end of which part (e) it usually becomes slightly convex. A very shallow notch (c) opposite to this point often divides the greater curvature into two portions ; and the two constrictions together define the commencement of the pyloric pouch (6, h, c, <?). The cardiac pouch, or great or splenic extremity (d), lies to the left of the cardia or the oesophageal opening («), beyond which it projects for about three inches. At this aperture the oesophagus dilates gradually, so as to resemble an inverted funnel. To the right of the oesophagus, the stomach expands slightly, and hence reaches its maximum dia- meter at about the middle of the organ (/). Beyond this point it gradually tapers away to the pylorus (b,h), where a sudden external constriction marks the site of the valve. The dimensions of the organ are even more variable than its form. The author's mea- surements are not sufficiently numerous to jus- tify him in offering them as valid averages; but he has generally found that, in a state of mo- derate distention, its length is about 13 to 15 inches, its diameter at the widest part 5, at the pylorus 2, or through the whole organ 4, inches. Hence its total surface would equal about li square feet ; and its capacity about 175 cubic inches, or 5 pints. Its weight may be estimated at about 7 ounces. These estimates are a little larger than those of most other anatomists. The attachment of the stomach is chiefly effected by the continuity of its extremities * This woodcut is so far inaccurate, that the pyloric constriction is shown more distinctly than it could be actually seen in such a view, in which it ■would be partially concealed by the backward curve of this part of the stomach.