PELVIS. 112 by the line r c, and the line of gravity of the trunk, ca, and is doubtless considerably increased by the resisting tension of the an- terior abdominal muscles acting through the extensors of the thigh on the femoral sup- ports in the line c b, b d. In the foregoing dispositions of the pelvic structure, the office fulfilled by the sacrum is so compendious and important as to call for particular attention to the shape and position of that bone, and the manner in which it is articulated with the ilia, so as to be at once firm and strong as a keystone, yielding as a spring, and moveable as a jointed bone. And we shall find all these requirements beauti- fullv provided for. First. The sacrum is wedge-shaped, when viewed at its anterior aspect, narrowing from above downward, especially along the surface immediately between the lower portions of its iliac articular surfaces in the plane b, c {Jig. 88. a), which are inclined to each other at an angle varying from 15° to 30°, and aver- aging about 20°. When viewed from above at its base, as in fig. 89. page 144.), it also pre- sents a wedge shape with the base directed ante- riorly, the lateral masses of the base becoming narrower from before backwards ; so that the A, diagram of the sacral auricular facet, natural size ami placed as in the erect position of the body, with the lines of tension anil pressure, a, centre of action of ilie posterior deep ligaments ; dfe, arc oi'sacral groove, forming a quadrant with the lines of tension, ad, a e; d e, chord of the arc; d f, e f, chords of the semi-arcs; ag e, sacro-vertebral angle; d b e, triangle forming the sacral "TOUSSOirj" b and !c, position of sacral "joggles." n, diapram of a transverse section of the pelvis in the line o f the sacral a.ris, posterior view'; a c b, angle of vertical sacral wedge; d,e, depth of sacro-iliac articulations; f, interosseous sacro-iliac ligaments. sacrum appears to be a double wedge, having its broadest part at the border of junction of the base with the anterior surface, and tapering from this point, both upwards and backwards and downwards and backwards. Hence it has been stated by Cruveilhicr to be liable to dislocation downwards and for- wards, from the want of bony support in that direction. But the sacrum, in the erect po- sition of the body, is placed, not vertically, but obliquely, with its base directed more forwards than upwards, and its anterior sur- face more downwards than forwards, so that the upper limb of the auricular surface is placed nearly vertically, and the lower nearly horizontally, as seen in fig. 88. A. The di- minished breadth of the base of the sacrum posteriorly is due to the bevelling of the lateral surfaces for the implantation of the deep posterior and interosseous ligaments, as seen in fig. 88. (b, <>),the bone not being here in apposition with the overhanging iliac tuber- osities,— the area of absolute contact being confined to the auricular surfaces themselves. Again, the increased breadth of the anterior surface at the auricular angle c (fig. 89.), will he found, on careful inspection, to depend upon the presence of the pointed projections on each side, before described as received into corresponding depressions on the au- ricular surfaces of the ilia, which latter, being circumscribed below by a raised border, cause the sacrum to bite on the ilia here to a consider- able extent, forming what is called, in engi- neering nomenclature, a "joggle" to the sacral " voussoir." By the iliac support thus re- ceived, the position of the sacrum is well protected against pressures, coming either directly downwards in the line d, b {fig. 86.a), or dow nwards and forwards in the direction of