560 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. cess occurs in the rabbit. Here is represented a portion of a ripe Graafian vesicle, which was upon the point of discharging an ovum. The follicle, after being dissected out of the ovary, has been subjected to slight lateral pressure in the compressorium, by which the follicle has been burst at the point (Z>) preparing for rup- ture. The ovisac has given way at the thin- nest point, and the ovum, surrounded by the tunica granulosa (g, 1.), and dragging after it portions of the retinacula (g, 2.) is shown in the act of escaping from the follicle. Fig. 383. Ovum of the rabbit in the act of escaping from a rup- tured Graafian follicle. (After Barry.) The ovum is surrounded by the tunica granulosa, g1, and draws after it the portion of membrana granulosa termed the retinacula, </2 ; at h, where the rupture has taken place, the coats of the follicle are attenuated, and towards this spot numerous vessels converge. The form and size of the aperture by which the ovum escapes varies considerably. In the rabbit it generally appears in the form of a small round aperture in the midst of a bright red spot, which is margined by a little net- work of capillaries filled with blood (Jig. 383.//). In the sow the aperture is generally oblong Fig. 384. Portion of ovary of the sow. Three of the largest follicles have buist simultaneously, and exhibit wide lacerations. Others, less forward, remain unrup- tured. At the base are several unripe follicles. (After Pouchet.) {fig. 384.), and from 11 to 7"' in length; the laceration in the latter sometimes extending through the entire diameter of the follicle, and permitting the escape of the whole of its con- tents, together with the ovum. The laceration is not necessarily limited to a single follicle. In multiparient animals (fig. 384.) all or a greater portion of those follicles which have attained their full de- velopment undergo laceration, and emit their ova about the same time. In some of these, however, the effort may prove abortive, and the follicles may remain stationary until an- other impulse to rupture occurs, and the ova may then be discharged, or may, on the other hand, perish or be absorbed. In Man, although generally uniparient, two or more follicles may likewise become ma- tured about the same time, and their bursting may take place simultaneously. Of this fact 1 possess the proof in a case (fig. 409. page 605.) in which I found in one ovary three distinct apertures leading to as many developed ovisacs, all of which presented the characters just de- scribed as indicating the recently ruptured follicle. In this case the woman died during menstruation. Such an observation is interesting, as show- ing in what way multiple pregnancies may occur in the human subject, for the whole of the ova discharged under such circum- stances may be impregnated by a single coitus ; although it is also possible that the bursting of one follicle only may suffice for the pro- duction of twins, since two ova have been several times observed in a single follicle in the Mammalia, and this may also possibly be sometimes the case in Man. Before proceeding to the consideration of the remaining changes which the Graafian follicle undergoes, it may be useful here to make one or two observations on the con- ditions already described. Up to the moment of rupture, the progress of the follicle is one of regular advancement from an embryonic condition to a state of full maturity. The object of this progressive advancement is the protection, maturation, and final expulsion of the ovum, in such a manner that this last step may occur at a time when the ovum will be placed in circumstances the most favourable for impregnation. In order to accomplish this, the ultimate purpose of all these progressive changes, the ovisacs which had been previous!)' set more or less deeply in the ovarian parenchyma reach, one by one, the surface of this organ, and there, swelling rapidly from the increased secretion into their interior, and the growth of their walls, as we have seen, burst and emit their contents. The whole of these changes occur in regular sequence, and affect one or more follicles in succession. These follicles, lying buried in countless numbers in the substance of the ovary, supply, as it were, the pabulum for the morphological changes here described ; a certain number only being called into full maturity, whilst the greater portion of those which were originally formed