253 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). ever, examples frequently occur, in which its development is changed, under the influence of peculiar external circumstances, in such a manner that, instead of producing a sporan- gium it lengthens considerably, and bears symmetrically arranged leaves. Such a con- dition makes it more easy to compare the fruit of the Mosses and the leafy stems of the higher plants. In the Ferns and Equisetaeeae, again, only one transverse septum is formed; but here, it is the inferior secondary cell which is developed to the embryo, the direction of the first axis of growth being opposite to that of the archegonium. In Selaginella, a succession of transverse septa are formed, whence results a conferva-like fila- ment, which lengthens downwards by repeated division of a terminal cell. At length the youngest cell is transformed into an embryo. Amoii2 the Coniferae, the same process pre- sents itself, with this important difference, that before it commences, the germ divides by two crucial vertical septa into four cells, which correspond to the four embryos which are afterwards formed. In all the Phancrogamia, probably without exception, the germ-cell divides, in the first instance, by a trans- verse septum into two cells, of which the upper is the larger. In some cases the lower cell is developed directly to a spherical cel- lular mass (as in Hippuris and Orchis Morio). Much more frequently, however, it is trans- formed into a conferva-like filament (sus- pensor) which lengthens by repeated division of an inferior terminal cell. At length the youngest cell, instead of lengthening, becomes spherical, and gives rise to the embryo by a process similar to that described above in Hippuris. 115. The organ to which the name suspen- sor is applied by Mr. Henfrey in Orchis Morio, differs materially from that of Selaginella, the Coniferas, or from that described in the pre- ceding paragraph. Its formation does not, like that of the true suspensor, precede, but follows the origin of the embryo. In Hippuris, it appears to result from endogenous cell-forma- tion in the lengthened upper compartment of the original germ-cell. 116. The difference between the development of the pollen grain, and that of the microspore of Selaginella and of the Rhizocarpeae, is no less remarkable. Among the Phanerogamia, after the pollen grain has remained for some time in contact with the stigma, its inner mem- brane grows out at one point of its periphery into a filiform cell; this lengthens more or less rapidly until it reaches the micropyle of the ovule, which it enters, and at last comes into contact with the embryo sac. The sac usually resists it strongly ; sometimes it is bulged in, but is very rarely perforated. In consequence of this act the transformation of the germ-cell commences. The absence of moving filaments among the higher plants stands connected with the intervention of a second membrane (that of the embryo sac) between the two fluids, the union of which seems to constitute the essential condition of fecundation. 117. In comparing the development of the microspore with that of the spore of the Ferns writh which the plants among which it presents itself are so closely allied, the difference is even more striking. In Selaginella all the steps intervening in the Fern between the spore and the tessellar cells of the antheri- dium have disappeared. 118. Direct observations relating to the act of impregnation among the Cryptogamia, are for the most part wanting. The presence of antherozoids in the cavities of the archegonia of the Ferns has been witnessed only by Su- minski and Mercklin. Among the fiepaticae and Mosses, Hofmeister observed within the involucre of Jungermannia bivaricata,anthero- zoa " which moved rapidly and played livelily round the archegonia."* In this species, as well as in J. bierenata and bicuspidata, the same observer found a mucous substance of glass-like transparency, occupying the mouths of the archegonia. In this substance were embedded numerous curled fibres, which he considered to be dead antherozoids. Evi- dence more to be depended upon is that of the concurrent testimony of all observers that, among the dioecious mosses and liver- worts, wherever plants bearing archegonia grow in the neighbourhood of those bearing antheridia, fruits are almost always produced ; while in the contrary case, the archegonia are abortive. 119. Origin and development ofgerm-cells in special organs destined for their reception, which are capable of transformation into rudiments of new plants, without the concurrence of two organs of opposite functions. — Of this, distinct ex- amples occur only among the Hepaticse ; viz. among the leafy Jungermanniae, and the Marchantiae. Inone of the latter,the Lumdaria vulgaris, there is formed by the doubling in of the epidermal layer of the upper surface of the frond, immediately behind the notch in the anterior margin, a crescentic pouch, which extends backwards for about a line under the surface. Its cavity is bounded by an inferior and a superior wall, whose concave surfaces unite in a sharp margin, the plane of which inclines slightly backwards and downwards. The upper wall is formed by the double epi- dermal membrane ; the lower by a membrane which is intimately united with the parenchyma of the frond, in its relations to which it re- sembles the tissue which lines the subepider- mal air cavities. It consists originally of a single layer of tessellar cells, much smaller than those upon which they are supported. A number of these grow out into papillif'orm projections, in each of which the projecting hemispherical portion is soon separated by a transverse septum. A second is then formed above the first, and parallel to it. The highest cell next divides by a vertical septum parallel * Hofmeister, Vergleicliende Untersucliungen, &c. S. 38. Vide supra, Fig. 164.