646 thinner, rine walls UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. He found the thickness of the ute- , three weeks after conception, 6"' During these changes, which take place in i the uterine body in the course of pregnancy, similar, but much slighter, alterations occur in the cervix. For the latter, being only the ex- cretory channel of the uterus, undergoes no further modification than is necessary to pre- pare it for transmitting the fcetus when fully developed. Accordingly, in the early months of gestation, while the body is rapidly en- larging, the cervix undergoes but little change. Its tissues, however, become slightly expanded, so that the whole part is thicker, softer, and more elastic than in the virgin state. The margins of the os externum are consequently rendered more cushiony, and the orifice itself is enlarged. The canal of the cervix is also widened, and the pahnae plicatse become un- folded, and project in the form of frill-like expansions ( fig. 446.) ; while an unusual ac- tivity, occurring in the crypts and follicles, by which these parts are covered, a tough gelatinous secretion is poured out, which Fie. 445. Human gravid uterus at eight months. The vessels ham been injected, and the peritoneum removed from the sides and fore-part of the uterus. (After Wm. Hunter.") a, commencement of the cervix; bb, portion of the body corresponding- with the brim of the pelvis ; v c, Fallopian tube concealing the ovary; dd, round ligament; e, hypogastric artery, and /, vein; g, spermatic artery, and h, vein. at the commencement of the third month, 5"'; at the commencement of the fourth month, 4'". At the end of the fourth month, in two cases, 4'"; in a third, 3'"'at the upper, and 4'" at the lower part ; in a fourth, 5"'. At five months, in one case, 3'"; in another, 2"' superiorly, and 4"' inferiorly. At six and seven months, rather less than 3"'; at eight months, in one case, 2"', and 2^"'; and in another, 3"' above, and more than 4"' below. At nine months, they appear to be still rather thinner. In several uteri, which I have examined at all stages of gestation, [ have found the thick- ness of the uterine walls exceedingly variable in different instances, even at corresponding periods of pregnancy, and particularly variable also in different parts of the same uterus.* According to my measurements, the extremes of thickness range from 2'" to 9"'. * This circumstance is remarkably exemplified in prep. No. 3605, in the Museum of the Royal College ol Surgeons, London. Os and cervix ideri in the eighth month of pregnancy. The os is surrounded by a broad disc of enlarged cervical follicles filled with a gelatinous secretion. The os is represented as seen from the vagina, va, vaginal walls divided ; v, walls of uterus. Half the natural size. (Ad Nat.) collecting here in the form of a plug, assists in shutting out the uterine cavity and its contents from contact of external air and other influences. The increase in size of the os and cervix, which is gradually progressive through the whole of gestation, will be sufficiently ex- pressed by comparing the dimensions of these parts in their two extreme states. The virgin cervix measures usually at the base 7—8'" in its shorter, and 11—12"' in its transverse dia- meter, and has an aperture of 3—4"' wide. It projects into the vagina to the extent of 4"' (fig. 425). At the end of pregnancy, the whole vaginal portion of the cervix would fill a circle of 1 \" diameter ; the orifice measures transversely 10—11"'; and that part which formerly projected into the fornix of the vagina, is now reduced nearly to the level of the vaginal walls. During these changes, it is often observed, especially in a first pregnancy, that, as gesta- tion advances, the projection of the cervix