SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 453 G G 3 smooth of an inch in diameter, and presenting a slightly granular surface (most of them are round ; others have more or less an oval shape); 2nd, distinct cells measuring from the ijoVoth t0 the t^W1" °f an 'nc'1 H1 l''a" meter : they contain a finely molecular fluid, and also a nucleus. The latter, which is fre- quently situated towards one side of the cell, is round and granular, and generally contains a nucleolus. With the exception of their smaller size, they resemble ordinary ganglionic cor- puscles. The nerves in the ganglion present the aspect of flattened bands of blastema, consisting almost entirely of corpuscles re- sembling those first described, arranged close together in linear series in a somewhat gra- nular matrix. They vary in breadth consi- derably. The ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves present the same struc- ture. The sympathetic ganglia appear to be en- tirely composed of structures similar to those first described, imbedded in a more or less granular transparent blastema. In embryos of 6 to 8 inches in length, the sympathetic ganglia still contain a large num- Fig. 299. A, Ganglion-corpuscles from the Gasserian gan- glion of a calf 7 inches long; b, nerve-fibres from the brachial plexus of the same animal; c, from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; d, nerve-fibres from the main cord of the sympathe- tic in the thorax. ber of corpuscles similar to those in earlier embryos. There are also present a number of bodies larger than these, and consisting of a distinct cell-wall inclosing, besides a nucleus, a finely-granular fluid. They are commonly round ; some are more or less egg-shaped. The nucleus in the latter is generally situated towards the wider extremity of the eel1, while its narrow end is prolonged into a delicate, granular process about the smooth °'* an inch in breadth. The nerves in the gan- glia do not differ much in appearance from those in the Gasserian ganglion of the embryo of I£ inches in length. The sympathetic cord and branches present the same structure. In the ganglia of the cerebro-spinal nerves, the ganglionic corpuscles are larger and more dis- tinctly formed than in the sympathetic ganglia. Many of the cells have processes similar to those above described; and in several of these, at a short distance from the corpuscle, there is a small oval nucleus such as Kolliker describes in the human embryo of 16 inches. The nerves belonging to the cerebro-spinal system are also much further developed than those in the sympathetic. Those in the bra- chial plexus present the appearance of being composed of a slightly-granular transparent blastema, marked by longitudinal strias, and containing embedded in it oval granular nuclei. The striae are arranged parallel to one ano- ther, and evidently correspond to the margins of the nerve-fibres. The nuclei are arranged at intervals, and occupy the entire breadth of the fibres. There is no trace of the white substance of Schwann. Fig. 300. From the semi-lunar ganglion of a Calf 18 inches long. a, portion of ganglion; b, corpuscles isolated ; c, nerve-fibres connected with the ganglion. In the sympathetic ganglia of embryos measuring 18 or 19 inches in length, there are still present a considerable number of granular corpuscles measuring from the -f^^th to the -sVrrth of an inch in diameter, similar to those already described. They are chiefly com- posed, however, of cells resembling those in the ganglia after birth, only smaller and more delicate. The nerve-fibres in the ganglia hava much the same appearance as those already described in the brachial plexus of embryos from 6 to 8 inches in length. In the ganglia occurring on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, the Gasserian ganglion, and the gan- glion on the trunk of the pneumo-gastric, the ganglionic corpuscles differ from those in the perfect animal only in point of size. Most of the nerve-fibres connected with the ganglia present the same tubular character as the perfect nerve-fibre. The nerve-fibres in the roots of all the cranial nerves present the dis»