UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 628 that of the external surface. But whilst the anterior and posterior walls exhibit an average and nearly uniform thickness of about that of the lateral boundaries and of the fundus varies from 6"' to V". Hence the section of this cavity represented in fig. 426., which exhibits the organ as divided from before backwards, is described by a right line ; whilst the section {fig. 431.) shows the cavity as bounded by three curves, the degree of curvature varying in different subjects, and being generally supposed to be always greatest and most marked in women who have never borne children. This point has been much dwelt upon as serving to distinguish the nulliparous from the multiparous uterus. I have reason to think, however, that this observation has been again and again repeated without con- firmation by an appeal to facts. For although the sides of the virgin uterus are often strongly incurved, yet in some uteri in my possession from young subjects who had not borne children, the walls of the cavity are nearly straight, and this is the form which they have in the fetus (fig. 442.), and in undeveloped uteri {fig. 465.); whilst in other specimens, taken from women who had borne many chil- dren, the sides and fundus may be incurved in various degrees. Much will depend upon the mode in which the sections are made; for un- less, in dividing the organ, the knife has passed exactly through the median line, a portion of either the anterior or posterior wall will be in- cluded in the section, and the apparent form of the cavity will be materially modified thereby. Thus the uterine cavity in the unimpreg- nated state is nothing more than the narrow interspace between the flattened walls which are normally either in immediate contact, or are separated from each other by only a small quantity of mucus. The triangular form re- sults from the confluence of three ducts or channels; viz., the two oviducts above, and the cervical canal below. The tubal canals, having passed through the substance of the uterus, expand trumpet-like into the uterine cavity, whilst in the same way the cervical canal traced upwards is prolonged, though more gradually, into the same cavity. But the perpendicular diameter of the uterus being always greater than the transverse, the form of the cavity, in so far as it is trian- gular, represents not an equilateral, but an isosceles triangle with incurved sides {fig. 431 ). By reference to these particulars regarding the form of the interspace between the uterine walls, we are enabled to explain many pheno- mena relating to the first entrance of the ovum into the uterus, and its mode of deten- tion there, before it has become organically united to the uterine walls. The cavity of the uterus is lined by a mu- cous membrane, the peculiarities of which will be afterwards more fully described. This membrane appears to the unaided eye nearly smooth, and is usually of a pale pink colour, except in those cases "where death has oc- curred during menstruation, when it is of a deep red hue, and more or less plainly vascular. A moderate amplifying power, however, suffices to show that the mucous membrane is not smooth, but is perforated everywhere by minute apertures, which are the orifices of numerous ramified canals or follicles occupying the substance of the mu- cous membrane, and lying for the most part in a direction perpendicular to the surface upon which they terminate. A few folds are occasionally perceptible in the mucous mem- brane, these being seen chiefly in the neigh- bourhood of the tubal orifices. The apertures by which the Fallopian tubes enter the upper angles of the uterus are so small as only to admit of the passage of a fine bristle (fig. 406.). That by which the cavity of the body communicates at its inferior angle with the canal of the cervix has an average diameter of This orifice is the os uteri internum (fig. 431. i). The following are the dimensions of the ute- rine cavity :—length 11'"—12'"; breadth be- tween the points of entrance of the Fallopian tubes 11"'—12'"; at the centre of the ca- vity 4"' ; at the os internum \%"—3"'. The cavity of the cervix consists of a flat- tened fusiform canal running through the centre of the uterine neck. The widest por- tion occurs about the middle, where the canal measures transversely 3^"'— &" (fig. 431. c c), whilst towards either extremity the parietes gradually approximate so as to leave a narrow aperture at each end ; the superior aperture being the orifice already described as the os uteri internum, the dimensions of which have been given;—the inferior being the os externum, or os tincae, which measures 3'"—4'" in transverse diameter. The antero- posterior diameter of the canal at its widest part is not more than \\"'—2'". The en- tire length of the cervical cavity is 12'" — 13'". The mucous membrane lining this cavity- is probably not greatly inferior in extent to that of the uterine body. But on account of the smaller space in which it is contained, instead of forming an even layer, the mem- brane is here thrown into numerous folds or plicae, having intermediate furrows, often traversed by lesser plica?, which extend the secreting surface, and furnish a more consi- derable seat for those numerous mucous crypts which abound upon almost every por- tion of this structure. The forms which the cervical folds or plicae assume are sufficiently remarkable to have attracted the attention of anatomists at all periods. They are, however, so variable, that if twenty specimens be compared to- gether, scarcely two will be found to present precisely the same arrangement. On this account it is difficult to furnish any descrip- tion of them which shall be universally appli- cable. Nevertheless, two forms appear to me to be more prevalent than others. In one a single prominent raphe occupies the centre of each wall of the cervix. (Fig. 431. c c.) Com-