[115] OVUM. [i 2] wards appears as a small dot or nucleolus. The yolk begins, in the same manner as we have had occasion to state in many other animals, first by the clear deposit of a basement sub- stance round the germinal vesicle, and the subsequent formation of opaque granules in it; the vitelline membrane is of later for- mation. As the egg increases in size, the larger corpuscles and the fat globules gra- dually appear. The ovarian ova of several spiders contain besides the usual parts another body of a peculiar kind, the nature of which seems still involved in some doubt. This body is eccentrically placed near the yolk mass of the primitive ovum, and is of considerable size, viz. about 5y, of a yellowish colour, and, during the earlier part of its existence at least, consisting of concentric layers of a hard granular matter. V. Cams* has compared this body to the yolk-nucleus of the Frog's ovum ; and both he and Von Siebold seem disposed to consider it as in some way or other the source of the granular substance of the yolk ; but according to Wittich this view is not well founded, as he has observed the body remain- ing in the ovum till it reaches maturity, though it loses its concentric laminated structure, and becomes clearer and vesicular. Von Siebold, on the contrary, states that it gradually disap- pears. The large clear or oily globules appear, according to Cams, to be produced from near the pedicle of the ovum, at a place where there is fixed a group of cells apparently destined for their formation. No observations have as yet been made, so far as I am aware, on the existence of a mi- cropyle in the ova of Arachnida. Almost all the Arachnida are oviparous. The Scorpions are an exception, however, bearing their young alive ; and it is deserving of notice that in this family the embryo is deve- loped in the ovum while it still remains in the ovary. In the greater number of this class em- bryonic development commences in a blasto- derm, which covers only a part of the surface of the yolk, situated in what may be called its lower part or pole f ; and the segmentation of the yolk is therefore limited or partial, as in Insects. In the higher Arachnida the steps of this process do not appear to have been yet satisfactorily observed. I may refer, however, to the researches of Kaufmann of Lucerne on the development of the Tardigrada, as afford- ing clear and beautiful illustrations of the process of segmentation, which is shown to be complete in the lower Arachnida.t Crustacea.—All the animals of this class are of distinct sex; but in the allied Cirrhipedia hermaphroditism most frequently prevails. In some of the Cirrhipedes, however, it has been shown by Mr. Darwin § that the sexes are * Loc cit., p. 99. ■f See the Researches of Herhohl De Generat. Aranearum in Ovo, 1824; and Rathke, zur Mor- phol. Reiseberaerkung. 1837; and in Burdach's Physiologie. % Zeitsch. fur Wissen. Zool., vol. iii., p. 220. See Plate vi., figs. 3. to 11. § Monograph of the Sub-class Cirrhipedia, &c, printed by the Ray Society, 1854, p. 27, &c. also distinct, as in some of the species of the genera Ibla, Scalpellum, Alcippe, and Crypto- phialus. In these instances the males are very minute, and are attached, almost like pa- rasites, to certain parts of the more developed females, the place of their attachment varying in different species. It is interesting to ob- serve that these males, as in the case of several of the Epizoa, are often of the most rudimen- tary organisation.* The ova of the greater number of Crustacea, especially the more highly organised genera, belong, like those of most of the Articulata, to the group in which a considerable amount of nutritive yolk is present along with the for- mative part, and in which the process of seg- mentation in the latter is partial. The forma- tive disc is situated on the lower surface of the ovum; and from that part the development of the embryo emanates. Even among the higher decapodous Crustacea, however, the ova are of very various sizes \; and in the lowest genera, as among the Entomostraca, the ova are proportionally the largest, although they are of the simplest structure, and present the smallest amount of nutritive yolk ; so that, in this as in other classes of animals, magnitude alone is no true criterion of the internal structure of the ovum. The ova of this class have been described principally by Rathke%, by Erdl$, R. Wag- ner ||, LeuckartH, Leydig **, and others ; but the knowledge both of their structure and their mode of formation is yet far from being sufficiently minute or complete. They pre- sent, indeed, many varieties, which renders it difficult to give any general description of them. The following may however be stated. The ova of Crustacea are often variously and brilliantly coloured. The yolk-substance con- sists of a large quantity of clear globules of considerable size, having the aspect of oil globules, in which the colouring matter chiefly resides. In some ova these globules attain the size of of an inch. There is also a more fluid granular matter in the yolk, and in the more mature ova there is a layer or disc of granular corpuscles on one side which after- wards is the seat of segmentation and embry- onic formation. The germinal vesicle is of considerable size, in some instances possess- * It is also a remarkable fact, pointed out by Mr. Darwin in his interesting Researches, that even among the hermaphrodite species there are some- times distinct male individuals attached parasiti- cally to the hermaphrodite animals; these have been called complementary males. f Thus, for example, the ova of the river craw- fish (Astacus fluviatilis) are twice as large as those of the common lobster. J Entwickel. des Flusskrebses, 1829; in Bur- dach's Physiologie, vol. ii. 1837 ; in his Abhandl. zur Bildung und Entwickel. Gesch. &c, 1833; in Dissert, de Animal. Crustac. Generat. 1844 ; and various other treatises. § Entwickel. des Hummereies, 1843. || Prodrom. Hist. Generat., 183G. *|f Article Zeugung. ** On Argulus foliaceus in Zeitsch. fur Wissen. Zool., vol. ii.