87 PANCREAS. givevi by the most trustworthy authorities, all conspire to invest the practical investigation of the subject with an amount of difficulty and doubt greater, I think, than that which would beset almost any other path of micro- scopical research. And 1 may add to this, what would naturally be its accompaniment, a deficiency on the part of the authors that I have consulted, in that very kind of informa- tion that the practical difficulties of original research make one crave in others. The only observations on which I think reliance is to be placed for the solution of the difficulties that the examination of a structure so in- volved and delicate as the one under consi- deration presents, are observations made with the microscope on the parts, fresh, in situ, unaffected by re-agents, and undisturbed by such manipulation as shall interfere with the normal relations of their minute anatomy; and such observations I cannot find. Midler's descriptions and drawings on this subject, in his admirable monograph, " De Glandularum Secernentium Structura Penitiori," are either taken from the parts unmagnified, or magnified with such low powers as make them valueless for the solution of the special difficulties of the case. The same observation applies to the accounts of the minute structure of the pan- creas contained in the ordinary works on de- scriptive anatomy, from their being descrip- tions of the minute structure as seen by the naked eye, or as made out by a coarse kind of disintegration, or by mercurial injections. The most satisfactory microscopical ex- aminations of the pancreas may be made, I think, from those of the Rodents; for in them the gland being spread out in its proper me- sentery in an arborescent or seaweed-like form, it is in some parts so thin as to trans- mit sufficient light for its examination without any compression or dissection whatever ; in- deed, along the edges and in some of the smallest lobules, the ultimate follicles are dis- tributed in a single layer only. This arrange- ment makes a careful and satisfactory scrutiny much easier; and I shall, therefore, in this part of my paper, draw principally from the appearances of the gland in these animals, as the rat, rabbit, mouse ; at the same time the close approximation in ultimate structure to the human pancreas will make my observa- tions apply as well to the gland in man as in these lower mammalia. On putting a minute lobule of the pancreas of a rat or mouse under the microscope, we see a number of follicles grouped together, of various forms and sizes, constituting, by their grouping, the acini of the gland, or ultimate granules visible to the naked eye ; and when the acinus is constituted by a small number of follicles, and isolated, the whole of it may be brought under the field of the microscope at once (as in Jig. 57.). These follicles are formed by the involution of the limitary mem- brane of the gland, and they contain the se- creting epithelium, and within that (at least under some circumstances) a central cavity. These elements of the follicle — the basement membrane, the epithelium, and the cavity— I shall consider in succession. Fig. 57. Minute lobule or acinus of the pancreas of a 3Iouse, .showing the two forms or stages of the epithelium, and the varied forms and sizes of the ultimate fol- licles {inaynified 180 diameters). a. The basement or limitary membrane.— It is to the modification and arrangement of this fundamental tissue that the pancreas (in common with all other glands, either folli- cular or tubular, simple or compound) owes its shape and appearance as a conglomerate gland, and its position in the gland series as a " compound gland with canals of the ramified type having follicular extremities."* From this membrane, as from a sta'ting-point, the distribution and anatomy of all the other ele- ments of the gland structure proceed. The branched character of the ducts, the parti- cular manner in which the follicles are grouped, the racemose or panniculated cha- racter of their clusters, the isolation of the epithelium within them, the amount and ar- rangement of the areolar tissue without them, and the form of the capillary network, all result from the particular way in which this basement membrane is laid down. To this simple truth anatomists have been a long time in coming. Malpighi first, in 1665, an- nounced the fact that the compound glands were mere multiplications or repetitions of the simple ones, and that all glands consisted of tubes with blind dilated or undiluted extre- mities, which received the secretion from the blood and poured it into the excretory duct. This view, after having some doubt thrown upon it by the researches of lluysch and the experiments of Haller, has been entirely con- firmed and greatly elaborated by the labours of Miiller, who, in his great work on the inti- * Miiller, Physiol, by Baly, vol. i. p. 4-14. G 4-