271 RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. point. Carpenter, Quain and Sharpey, Kirkes and Paget, Kolliker, S. Van der Kolk, Halting, Adriani, and Schultz describe a pavement epi- thelium on the interior of the air-cells of the lungs ; and the author who has devoted many special examinations to this particular point is now convinced that a fine pavement epithe- lium does cover these parts which he proposes to distinguish as the " hyaline epithelium.'" * Messrs. Todd and Bowman, like Rossignol, adopt the views of Mr. Rainey, and teach that the air-cells have no epithelium of any hind. The adjoined is the illustration of the epithelium given by Schroeder Van der Kolk in Adriani's Essay.f Fig. 219. TJltimate cells of the human lung, showing the trabi- cular framework formed by the elastic fibres of the walls, and the hyaline pavement epithelium which lines the interior of the air-cells. {After Schroeder Van der Kolk, quoted by Adriani.) By this distinguished observer it is repre- sented under the character of transparent pavement epithelium, the cells of which are * In suggesting the word hyaline as a distinctive epithet for this variety of epithelium, I do not wish to be understood as denying, in its component scales, the existence of every form of visible element. The word should be accepted in a com- parative sense, as signifying that their nuclei and grannies are less declared than those of any other description of epithelium. f This figure is thus described by Adriani: — " Alveoli constant membrana subtilissima structura carente, quo?, antem membrana mucosa tegitur epi- thelio pavimentoso (plaat epithelium') admodum pel- lucido, in quo potissimum ope acidi aeetici nuclei conspiciuntur; propter singularem autem pelluci- ditatem ssepe difficile est, illud epithelium rite dis- tinguere; vid. fig. 12. nostram, ubi ad alveolorum parietes conspicitur. Cellules coniea; ciliataj quse in bronchiolis minutis adhuc conspiciuntur, in alvcolis penitus deficiunt; base membrana cum epithelio pavimentoso obtegit vasa sanguifera per alveolorum parietes ducta; propter singularem tenuitatem im- bibitio atque absorptio per banc membranulam facillime perfici posse facile intelligitur."—Op. cit. p. 61. furnished with a nucleus and minute granules They are adjusted accurately, as a single layer, edge to edge. The description given by Kol- liker coincides with the preceding.* Fig. 220. A thin section of a few air-cells from the human lung, viewed by transmitted light. (After Kolliker.') a, epithelium lining the air-cells; b, elastic tissue arching over and between the cells; c, the flat wall of a cell, showing the scanty distribution of elastic fibres over this part of the cell. By Kolliker the cells of this epithelium (a, Jig.220.) are stated to consist of polygonal par- ticles of from 1—1600th to 1—2250th of an inch in diameter, and from 1—2800th to 1 —3800th of an inch in thickness. They repose imme- diately upon the fibrous layer. They are normally shed; though not readily detected in health, it is easy to discover these epithelia in disease. This epithelium lines every part of the air-passages and cells except the bronchi. These latter tubes are furnished with a thick layer of ciliated epithelium, which, as formerly stated, terminates abruptly at the commence- ment of the intercellular passages. It may * The following passage in the Microscopic Ana- tomy of Kolliker refers to the figure cited in the text. " Das Epithelium der Lungenblaschen ist kein flimerndes, wie man frllher ziemlich allge- meine annahm, sondern ein gew6hnlich.es Pflaster- epithelium, das mit polygonalem Zellen von 0-005 —0-007'" Durehmesser und 0-003—0 001'" Dicke in einfacher Lage unmittelbar auf der Faserhaut der Luftbliischen aufsitzt. Die Zellen sind alle kern- haltig, und haben meist ausserdem der Trachea und der Bronchien anzunehmen, dagegen konnen allerdings mehr zufallig oiler dann in Krankheiten der Luftwege einzelne Elemente desselben dem Bronchialschleime sich beimengen. Beim Menschen fallen diese Zellen ungemeiu leicht ab und liegen dan frei in den Luftbliischen und feinsten Bronchien, doch kann man fast in jeder Lunge, wenigstens in einzelneu Alveolen dieselben noch in situ sehen und bei eben gctbdteten Thieren bietet bei Beobachtung der Lagening derselben nicht die geringsten Schwie- rigkeiten dar."—Op. cit., p. 315.