194 PELVIS. able projection of the abdomen, caused by a great increase in the normal forward bend of the lumbar curve; with an equivalent projec- tion of the sacrum posteriorly, from the hori- zontal position of that bone ; so that the plane of the superior pelvic opening was, in the upright position, completely vertical. The lower extremities were not, however, de- formed, neither the bones of the upper nor lower leg being bent. About the age of thirty, she became pregant, and died after the neces- sary performance of the Caesarian section. On being examined, the lumbar vertebra were found much curved forwards, and small, slender, and weak. The sacrum was placed nearly horizontal from before backwards, its posterior part projecting very much behind (see fig. 120. «). It was sunk so much between the ilia that the centre of the 4th lumbar ver- tebra was opposite to the upper border of the pubic symphysis, and was bent so much about the 3rd sacral vertebra, that the distance of the apex from the promontory was only 1 inch 9^ lines, and from the first transverse sacral line, only 15 lines. The innominate bones were thin and slender, and the centres of the iliac wings more translucent than in the healthy bone. On the planes of the ischia was the cracked pasteboard fissure, running obliquely from above downwards and forwards opposite the cotyloid cavities, and said to be charac- teristic of the pelvis diseased by malacosteon. The left tuber ischii was more elevated than the right, and the ascending branch of the same bone more bent. A direct line drawn from one anterior superior iliac spine to the other, cut the body of the 4th lumbar ver- tebra .3 lines below its upper surface (rf), and measured 8 inches 7 lines. From the anterior inferior iliac spine to the posterior extremity of the linea innominata, measured on both sides, 2 inches. From the ischial tuberosity Fig. 120. Angular rickety pelvis. {After IVaegele.) to the most elevated portion of the iliac crest, measured on the right side, 6 inches, on the left, 5 inches 7 lines. From the tuber ischii to the pectineal eminence, measured on the light side, 3 inches ; on the left, 2 inches 11 lines. The height of the pubic symphysis was 13 lines. The superior opening was angular, with an acute and somewhat symmetrical curve of the cotylo-sacral ribs on each side, and a gradual and equable curve inwards at the union of the ilium and superior pubic rami at the accta- bula (6), which brings the body or acetabular portion of the pubis, to within 5 lines of the body of the 4th lumbar vertebra, the under surface of which is on the same level ; the same measurement on the left side being 65 lines. The distance from the anterior and lower border of the same vertebra to the upper border of the pubic symphysis, was 1 in. 1 line ; and from one superior branch of the pubis to the other near the acetabula, 1 in. 7 lines. The pubis presented the usual out- ward bend at the spines on each side of the symphysis (c).—At the inferior opening, the distance between the ischial tuberosities was 1 in. lines only, and the nearest approxi- mation of the ascending branches, 1 in. 1 line. The shape of this pelvis, of which the author gives three lithographic sketches, had caused it to be frequently mistaken for the results of mol- lifies ossium, but the appearance of the bones in texture, lightness, and slenderness, &c, was truly rickety, and with the history of the case, gave no reason whatever for the sup- position that malacosteon had ever been pre- sent or supervened. In addition to this case, the same eminent observer adds, that he has himself seen two examples of this deformity in children, and that in the pathological collection at Strasbourg, as he was informed by Professor Stoltz, that there are two skeletons of rickety children, of one and eight years old respectively, in which the pelves are affected with the angular deformity. In the Anatomical Museum at Breslau, also, on the authority of Professor Bctsehler, is another example of this kind, exhibited by the pelvis of a rickety female child aged ten years. Many other similar examples are given by Burns, Otto, Wallach, and Krum- bolz. Piokitansky also found the angular de- formity in rickety pelves, but in a minor degree of distortion.* In the Museum of King's College, London, are two rickety pelves of children of about from four to six years old, both of which are affected with angular deformity of the pelvis. Fig. 121. Angular child's pelvis from tickets. A drawing of one of these is given in figure 121. In the larger of the two, the curves of the femurs and leg bones are bent di- * Pathological Anatomy: Pelvic Abnormnlitica.