358 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. and is covered by the ordinary layer of co- lumnar epithelium. The frequent rupture of the follicle in this situation has led many to regard it as either possessing a permanent orifice here, or ac- quiring one by a kind of natural dehiscence. But later researches seem to show that this open state is quite exceptional and accidental; being clue to disease, putrefaction, or mechanical violence. The author can at least express his own conviction that—as Boehm long ago stated, — the agminate follicles are closed sacs. This conclusion is much confirmed by the fact, that the follicles of some animals are altogether beneath the mucous membrane and the tubes, and quite distinct from both of them ; so as to lie wholly in the sub-mucous areolar tissue.* While the vascular arrange- ments which we are about to describe seem equally incompatible with any theory of their normal dehiscence. Each of these follicles essentially consists of a capsule, enclosing a number of delicate capillaries, the interstices of which are occu- pied by a cell-growth consisting of various forms. The capsule is a structure which, though analogous to a basement membrane, differs from such a delicate homogeneous lamina, both in being much thicker, and in offering an in- distinctly fibrous texture. Its smooth outer surface contains elastic fibres, and is attached by loose areolar tissue to the surrounding sub-mucous structures. The vessels of the follicle offer a very peculiar arrangement. The small arteries in the sub-mucous areolar tissue give off branches that ramify among.->t the several follicles of each "patch;" and thus form a network of Fig. 271. Vessels of the three agminate follicles of the Babbit; as seen by a horizontal section, at about the middle of their height. {After Koelliker; from an injection bxj Frei.~) a, a, minute vessels surrounding the capsule of the agminate follicles; b, b, b, delicate capillary loops „, penetrating their interior, and bending back from c, c, c, the centres of the follicles, capillary arteries, chiefly occupying the hori- contact with the capsule of the follicle, break zontal plane. These vessels, which are in * Compare Koelliker, Op. cit. pp. 153. 188. described as depressed into a fossa in this situation. The thin stratum of tissue which Fig. 270. Plan of an agminate follicle, as seen by a vertical section. Magnified 40 diameters. a, short and conical villi surrounding the follicle ; b, intestinal tubes in the same situation; c, muscu lar stratum of the mucous membrane; d, submu- cous areolar tissue, in which the follicle is chiefly situated; e, circular layer of the muscular coat; /, longitudinal layer of the same; g, peritoneal coat; h, follicle enclosing nuclear contents; apex of the follicle projecting into the cavity of the bowel. intervenes between the follicle and the interior of the bowel (at i,fig. 270.) is so delicate, that its exact anatomy is not easily verified by vertical sections. It appears, however, to con- sist of a very small quantity of indistinctly fibrous tissue; which encloses some capillaries,