387 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. tially a species of fuel for that process of calorific combustion,which pervades the whole body, and which discharges its resulting car- bonic acid by means of the respiratory func- tion. And Liebig has adduced numerical data from the fattening of animals, which lead him to suppose, that these substances are also capable of undergoing a process of de- oxidation, that converts them into fat, and thus enables them to augment the adipose tissue. But this view rests on very insuf- ficient foundations*: and is curiously con- trasted with that oxidationf of hydro-carbons into sugar, which the researches of various recent observers seem to indicate as one of the chief functions of the liver .1 4. The importance of the water of the food is such as justly entitles this liquid to the rank of a fourth alimentary constituent. For it forms about four-fifths of the entire corporeal mass : and undergoes, at the va- rious excretory surfaces of the skin, the lungs, and the kidneys, a continual expenditure ; the replacement of which is obviously neces- sary to the maintenance of the proper com- position of the body. The way in which this large aqueous con- stituent facilitates the action of the various organs is not very difficult to conjecture. Their merely physical properties of hardness, flexibility, and the like, often seem chiefly determined by the quantity of the watery in- gredient which they contain. And their far more recondite vital properties seem quite as immediately under its influence. Thus not only do its solvent powers appear to be eminently useful in furthering the minute division, and the local transfer, of various organic substances, but we are justified in conjecturing that it gives a more specific chemical assistance to many of those pro- cesses of metamorphosis which are so inti- mately connected with life. In both of these respects, it would seem to afford a special aid to the function of digestion. While that act * The increase of fatty matter supposed to have been derived from these hydrates was calculated by subtracting the fat added in the vegetable food from the increase of the animal's weight; — this sur- plus being set down as due to augmented adipose tissue. Hence any error in estimating the fatty con- stituent of this food, on the one hand—or any neglect to calculate the watery and proteinous constituents of the increased adipose tissue, on the other—would partially account for the difference observed. And it seems not unlikely that both of these inaccuracies actually occurred in these observations. f Assuming that such a metamorphosis really obtained, it would not be difficult to explain most of Liebig's results. For it is surely not impossible, that the presence of an excess of sugar in the liver might diminish the energy of this act; in other words, that an excess of the product might lessen the activity of the process. Thus the copious in- gestion of sugar might check its formation, and diminish the metamorphosis of the fat supplied to the liver in the portal blood. And this retention of the fatty form might not only affect the hydro- carbons of the food, but also those which are" pos- sibly developed in the organism from its own pro- teinous constituents. % Compare the remarks on the liver, at p. 401. of absorption, which conveys the dissolved contents of the alimentary canal into the surrounding veins, is greatly facilitated by the heightened diffusive energy which the low specific gravity of water enables it to impart to the fluids with which it has been mixed. And finally, the use of water in relation to the opposite extreme of nutrition—namely, to excretion—may be well exemplified by the urine, in which a highly poisonous product of life is continually washed out of the system, through the instrumentality of a stream of this universal solvent. The details of death by thirst afford a fearful commentary on the above remarks ;— although, from reasons which will presently be mentioned, it will be obvious that even these cases rarely afford us true examples of the strict exclusion of all entry of water from without the body. After a period of ago- nizing thirst, the most distressing symptoms of which seem to be referred to the dry and inflamed throat and fauces, the deficiency of water is gradually revealed by a diminution— which is almost a suppression—of the various secretions that normally contain a large pro- portion of this liquid : namely, the sweat, the urine, and the faeces. Increasing muscular debility accompanies this change ; and is soon followed by delirium and coma,ending in death. And, conversely, the benefits afforded by water seem to receive an almost paradoxical illustration from its effects in the opposite states of starvation and of fattening. Thus, as regards the latter process, animals are stated to fatten much more easily and quickly when allowed the free ingestion of this liquid. Ami Becquerel and Lehmann state, that when water is taken in excessive quantity, an in- creased amount of urea is excreted from the system of the healthy human subject.* While the researches of Bidder and Schmidt-^ show that, even after the withdrawal of all other ingesta, the copious use of water con- cedes to the starving animal a longer dura- tion of life ;—diminishing, not only the waste of its protein compounds, but those collateral results of the vital processes, which are ex- emplified by the excretion of urea, carbonic acid, and salts. Hence water, which forms about 85 per cent, of the milk, is a universal constituent of the food of animals; and varies only in the proportion which its amount bears to that of the solid ingredients mixed with it, or dis- solved in it. In some of the lowest form's of animal life, its relative amount is so great, that the remainder of the food is only present in the state of a very dilute solution. In cer- tain aquatic creatures of this kind, the medium around the animal seems to form a dilute alimentary solution, which only requires an act of absorption by the outer surface of its body. And even in the higher animals, in whom the other alimentary constituents are * An effect which is probably due to its favouring the absorption of a larger quantity of protein from the same amount of food. •f Op. cit. p. 344. CC 2