STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 418 to which this is attached; or, by extending laterally, and opening into the peritoneum beyond the margin of the adhesion, leads to perforation. Haemorrhage to a considerable extent generally occurs at some stage or other of the ulcerative process. In the earliest periods of the ulcer, this haemorrhage seems to proceed chiefly from smaller vessels. But after the coats of the stomach have once been penetrated, the larger vessels which run on its exterior surface become very liable to be attacked, eroded, and laid open. The haemor- rhage thus produced is a frequent cause of death in this disease. The peritonitis pro- duced by perforation is, however, still more frequently fatal. lAentery.—A peculiar ulceration of the fol- licles of the large intestine has been described by Rokitansky, under the name of lientery. Like other ulcerations of this segment of the canal, diarrhoea is a constant symptom of its presence. The process begins by a disten- tion of the follicles, which is accompanied by a dusky-red injection of the vessels on and around their summits. The contents of the follicle next suppurate ; and are discharged from the resulting "follicular abscess," through an ulcerated or ruptured opening in the summit of the follicle itself. The follicle thus emptied is next removed by a process of ulce- ration; the limits of which subsequently ex- tend, so as to form a round or oval ulcer, which has the size of a pea or a small bean. The mucous membrane at the margin of these ulcers is relaxed; and of a pale, grey, or livid colour. And the cellular tissue which forms their base exhibits similar appearances, which are sometimes combined with the various re- sults of slight extravasation of blood. The subsequent enlargement of these ulcers in various directions, and the fusion of several into one which may thus be brought about, constitute a secondary ulcerative process, which often lays bare a large surface of the submucous or muscular coat. The bases of these irregular secondary ulcers present cha- racters like those of the primary ulcers just mentioned. Like the dysenteric process, this follicular ulceration increases in intensity from the ccecum onwards towards the rectum. And in acute cases, it sometimes extends upwards into the ileum. Hypertrophy.—The hypertrophy generally described by authors as one of the abnormal conditions of the intestinal canal probably in- cludes, under one name, a variety of states ; which differ widely from each other, both in their nature and resultSi. (1.) That thickened state of the tunics of the tube which is generally found behind an ob- struction of gradual origin or long standing, is the best (if not the only) instance, to which we can really apply the word hypertrophy ; in its strict sense of an excessive nutrition of tissue. Here the propulsive powers of the tube have to struggle against the increased resistance which is offered by the constricted or obstructed part: and this increased activity results in an exalted nutrition of the unstriped muscular fibres, which materially adds to their bulk. Such a true hypertrophy of the mus- cular coat may be seen in certain cases of simple stricture of the rectum or oesophagus. And a similar condition is not unfrequently associated with the scirrhous constriction of the pylorus; as a moderate hypertrophy of this tunic over a large part of the stomach. But a careful examination into the minute anatomy of this hypertrophy would generally show, that it can hardly be regarded as due to a mere exalted nutrition of previously ex- isting tissues. On the contrary, even in those instances in which it appears, to the naked eye, almost limited to the circular fibres of the muscular coat, the microscope often reveals evidence of a more extended change. The neighbouring submucous areolar tissue is always infiltrated with an exsudation, in larger quantity, and of more gelatinous consistence, than the nutritional fluid proper to the part. The partitions of areolar tissue by which the bundles of the unstriped fibres are normally separated from each other, are in- creased both in solidity and bulk. And, finally, the fibre-cells themselves not only present a more variable, as well as a generally increased size; but are in many places sur- rounded by a more or less perfect layer of what seem to be developmental forms of these structures. (2.) In other cases of what is often called hypertrophy, a more partial and imperfect pro- cess of the same kind appears to take place, incidentally to the exsudation of a plasma, which may doubtless be referred to an in- flammatory origin. In such instances, an examination of the tunics of the canal gene- rally shows all of them to be more or less in- filtrated with a proteinous substance; which renders them much thicker, whiter, and more resisting than natural. Mingled with this de- posit, we often find an unusual quantity of the unstriped muscular fibre. But it is not al- ways easy to verify the exact amount of true muscular hypertrophy that has taken place. For the exsudation, which generally predomi- nates in the submucous and subserous coats, has also a great tendency to involve the fibrous sheaths of the various bundles of the unstriped fibres; and is thus capable of com- municating to the muscular coat an increased thickness, which by no means implies a pro- portionate hypertrophy of its characteristic fibres. The author is inclined to conjecture, that, in these instances of interstitial exsudation, the muscular fibres are capable of being af- fected in either of three ways. In some in- stances they seem to be really hypertrophied ; a process which is possibly the indirect result of the immovable and thickened condition of the tube, being such as to demand increased contractions, and stronger muscular struc- tures, in order to effect its various move- ments. In a second class of instances, they