UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 570 but is calculated to mislead by suggesting the idea that the so-called " true " corpus luteum is a totally different body from the " false," whereas these terms actually represent the same body, only in different stages of growth or decay. But practically it becomes a ques- tion how far it may be possible to determine, from the physical appearance of the follicle, whether impregnation has taken place. And this question is a very important one, espe- cially in its obstetric and forensic bearings. From the account already given of the several stages of growth and decay of the ovisac, it will have been seen that the yellow colour is common to all these alike, with the exception only of the earliest and the very latest stages. It alone, therefore, can afford no distinctive evidence upon the subject. But, in combination with other signs, the yel- low colour, by its extent, may be made avail- able to distinguish those cases in which im- pregnation has occurred; for when this is the case the ovisac, as stated, continues to increase in thickness ; a greater abundance of yellow deposit takes place in its tissues; the follicle, instead of shrinking and disappearing in the course of one or two months, continues to be visible for fourteen or fifteen months. It acquires a new coat which lines its cavity, or else this cavity is entirely closed by a coa- gulum which becomes organised and solid ; it presents the convoluted appearance which gives it a resemblance to the cerebral convo- lutions, and this convoluted condition gra- dually passes into one which is characterised by the presence of rays proceeding from a centre. Finally, the whole body constitutes a resisting and more or less solid mass, which can at once be detected by the touch, before the ovary is opened. The distinctions, therefore, are chiefly those of degree : the greater solidity ; the greater thickness of the yellow walls; their more marked convolutions ; the long persistent cavity, round or oval at first, and subsequently stellate ; the milk-white membrane lining the cavity, when the latter exists, or the white dense mass occupying its place, resulting from the transformation of the clot. These last characteristics of the so- called true corpus luteum, viz., the cavity lined by the white membrane or the solid white centre, as well as the large central stellate ci- catrix, may be regarded as absolute and not comparative distinctions, for they are not found in the follicle in process of involution when impregnation has not taken place. With regard to scrofulous tubercles, which have been often enumerated among " false corpora lutea," it is probable that some of the conditions of the ovisac now described have been hastily set down to this score, without sufficient examination ; for although scrofula may possibly affect the ovary, as it does the testis, yet a formation there of distinct scrofulous tubercles, unless they are abundant in other parts of the body, is, I am satisfied, a rare, if not an unknown, occurrence. No doubt, however, need at any time exist as to the nature of such bodies, since, if the bright yel- low colour of the ovisac is not sufficiently marked, as in those cases where they have be- come pale, and more nearly approaching the buff colour of tuberculous matter in general, the microscope will at all times determine the question, for in respect of composition there is nothing in common between tuber- culous matter and the ovisac in any of its natural stages of growtli or decay. Setting aside morbid states, nothing is ever seen in the perfectly healthy ovary except the stroma and ovisacs or Graafian vesicles in different stages of development or decline. These may be arranged in three series : Ascending Series. 1. The simple undeveloped ovisac, before it has acquired an indusium from the stroma of the ovary, or from the walls of an already developed follicle, in which it may be formed. It requires at this time the microscope for its examination (Jig. 373.). 2. The ovisac after it has acquired its outer capsule, by union with which it has become a Graafian follicle. 3. The Graafian follicle of the size of a hemp seed, or rather larger. It contains oil gra- nules in the coats of the ovisac, but not yet in quantity sufficient to produce a yellow colour. In this state numerous follicles are seen in sections of every healthy ovary during middle life (figs. 370. and 372.). 4. The follicle when it is approaching the surface of the ovary. It is enlarging, and its inner coat or ovisac has now a yellow colour. 5. The ripe follicle which is about to rup- ture and discharge an ovum. It is always found at the surface of the ovary, projecting often to a distance of 3-4///. It is covered by numerous veins, and in the centre of the most prominent part the coats of the follicle, as well as the ovarian coverings, are thinned and partly absorbed. Their thinness permits the contents of the follicle to be partly visible, and thus is produced a brownish red colour at this spot. The follicle contains blood or a bloody fluid, and sometimes a clot. The cavity is of considerable size, 4-6w. The inner coat is of a bright yellow colour, and ex- hibits slightly wavy folds {Jigs. 380. and 381.). 6. The follicle which has already ruptured. An irregular lacerated opening extending \-2"' is perceptible in the centre of the attenuated part, through which the ovum, together with that portion of the membrana granulosa which lay beneath the seat of the rupture, has es- caped, or is about to escape. The follicle is beginning to collapse. Its walls, no longer distended, become folded into numerous small plaits, producing, on section, the ap- pearance resembling cerebral convolutions. The cavity is consequently diminished. It is empty, or contains a little bloody fluid or a clot (fig, 385.). Descending Series, a. Not pregnant. 7. In the follicle which has recently burst, shrinking has commenced. The yellow ovisac is much plicated. The cavity contains a clot which is becoming pale, and exhibits under the