440 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. tubes, and are evidently continuous with the appear on addition of acetic acid. In other same (c, fig. 286.). Sometimes the granular contents of the vesicle appear to be prolonged downwards into the nerve-tube (a. fig. 289.), Fie-. 289. parts the ganglia contain corpuscles similar to those already described as occurring in the spinal ganglia, with the exception that they are in general perhaps somewhat smaller. They are imbedded in a fibrous structure, which seems to hold the same relation to them as the nucleated substance forming the capsules of the ganglionic corpuscles in the higher animals. It is difficult to ascertain how far the ganglionic corpuscles in the ab- dominal ganglia are unipolar or bipolar; ac- cording to Wagner, they are the same in this respect as the corpuscles in the spinal ganglia, being all bipolar; one tube entering while another leaves the corpuscle. The nerve- tubes which are connected with them belong both to the broad and fine varieties ; in ge- neral, the narrower fibres are connected with the smaller corpuscles, the broader fibres with those of larger size (Jig- 290.). 'Fie. 290. Ganglionic corpuscles from the gastric ganglion of the Torpedo. {After Wagner.) Showing, b, several of the cells still surrounded by the fibro-nucleated tissue, a, other cells de- nuded of it. while at other times, the oily contents of the latter reach quite up to the corpuscle, and seem either to become blended with the granular contents of the same, or are pro- longed into the clear space. Wagner* be- lieves that the normal relation between the nerve-tubes and corpuscles is, that each pri- mitive nerve-fibre coming from the centre, retains its appearance of double contour up to the ganglion-cell, where its contents are interrupted by the finely granular matter of the latter; at the peripherical extremity of the cell, the nerve-fibre commences in a quite similar manner. Thus then, according to Wagner, the oily contents of the nerve-tube cease on reaching the ganglionic corpuscle. Bidderf, on the other hand, regards the clear white space between the cell-wall and the granular contents as a thin sheet of nervous matter, which serves as a connecting medium between the contents of the nerve-tube on either side of the ganglionic corpuscle. As regards the sympathetic ganglia in this animal, they appear in some parts to be almost entirely composed of a fibrous structure and of a quantity of granular matter resembling, as Wagner and Eobin observe, the gray granular matter of the nervous centres, and containing a number of bodies of a brownish- yellow granular appearance, which do not dis- * Handworterbuch der Pb^'siologie, band iii. p. 361. et seq. t Zur Leben von dem Verhaltnisz der Ganglien, korper zu den Nervenfasem, Leipzig, as quoted in Canslatt's Jahresbericht, 1847. Ganglionic corpuscles from the 26th spinal ganglion of the Torpedo, drawn in outline in order to shou> the different size of the nerve-tubes. {After Wagner.) It has been already seen that it is almost certain that all the ganglionic corpuscles oc- curring in the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, at least in this animal, belong to the bipolar variety ; it remains to inquire whether all the nerve-fibres in the posterior root are connected with ganglionic corpuscles. When the ganglion, after addition of dilute solution of soda, is examined with a power of about 30 or 40 diameters, it is observed that while many of the fibres soon disappear among the ganglionic corpuscles, several of them can be traced from the point at which they enter the ganglion almost to its opposite extremity, without being connected with cor- puscles ; but I have never been able to trace them in this manner quite past the ganglion. Wagner, who counted the nerve-tubes con- tained in the posterior root of the nerve and also the ganglionic corpuscles, found that the number of each corresponded pretty closely,