506 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. Calcareous deposits in the enderon.—Deposits of this kind are very frequent in the Inverte- brata. In the Pulmonate and some Gasteropod Mollusks, for instance, globular masses of car- bonate of lime are scattered through the en- deron, and would almost seem to take the place of fat. In nudibranchiate mollusks, such as the Doridse, spicula of like nature are met with, and these sometimes unite into true internal shells, as in the genus Villiersia. The greater part of the skeleton of the Actinoid polypes, and the whole of that of the Echinoderms, is composed of calcareous networks of this kind, and globular masses of calcareous matter are scattered through the enderon of the Taeniadse, though the clear spherical bodies observed in these worms are by no means always of this nature. "Whether these enderonic calcareous deposits ever take place in the Vertebrata ap- pears to me to be, as I have said above, an open question, only to be decided by a very careful examination of the mode of growth of their so-called "dermal" bones. Bibliography. — General Works. — Heusinger, Histologie. Quekett, Lectures on Histology. Vertebrata. Gurlt, Untersuchungen tiber die hornigen Gebilde d. Menschen u. d. Haus-sauge- thiere (Muller's Archiv., 1836). Idem, Vergleichende Untersuchungen iiber die Haut der Menschen und d. Haus Saugethiere (Muller's Archiv., 1835). 3Ieyer, Haut d. Cetaceen. Meyer, Baa d. Haut des Gurtelthieres (MilUer's Archiv., 1848.) Eble, Lehre von d. Haaren, (Consult also for the Hairs, &c. the works cited in Henle's Allgcmeine An- atomie, and Kolliker's Mikroscopische Anatomie.) Feathers: — Dutrochet, Observations sur la Structure et la Regeneration des Plumes (Journal de Physique, lxxxviii.). F. Cuvier, Observations sur la Structure et Developpement des Plumes (Mem. du Museum, xiii.). Michel, (in Reil's Archiv., xiii.). Smith, Art. Zoology (EncyclopaediaMetropolitana.) Scales and integumentary organs of fishes. — Leeuioenhoeck, Arcana Natura?. Reaumur (Mem. de l'Acad. Roy. des Sciences, 1716). Mandl, Sur les Ecailles des Poissons (Annales des Sciences Naturelles, 1839.). Agassiz, Observations sur la Structure et le Blode d'Accroissement des Ecailles des Poissons (Annales des Sciences Naturelles, 1840; and Poissons fos- siles, Vol. I.). Williamson, On the Microscopic Structure of the Scales and Dermal Teeth of some Ganoid and Placoid Fish (Phil. Trans. 1849). Williamson, On the Structure and Development of the Scales and Bones of Fishes (Phil. Trans. 1851). Leydig, Histologische Bemerkungen iiber den Polyp- terus bichir (Siebold und Kolliker's Zeitschrift, 1853). Leydig, Beitrage zur Mikroskopischen An- atomie und Entwickelungs Gesehichte der Rochen u. Haie, 1852. Leydig, Haut der Stiss-wasser Fische (Siebold u. Kolliker's Zeitschrift, 1851). Leydig, Schleini-kanale d. Knochenfische (Muller's Archiv., 1850). Peters, Report on the Memoirs of Mandl and Agassiz (Muller's Archiv. p. ccix. 1841). Rathke, Ueber die Beschaffenheit des Lederhaut bei Am- phibien und Froschen (Muller's Archiv., 1847). Czermak, Ueber die Haut Nerven des Frosches (Muller's Archiv., 1849.) Annulosa. — Lavalle, Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Carpenter, Report on the Microscopic Structure of Shells (Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1848). Mayer, Ueber den Bau d. Hornschale der Kafer (Muller's Archiv., 1842). Newport, On the Natural History and Development of the Oil-beetle Meloe (Linnajan Transactions, 1845-7). Leydig, Ueber Argulus foliaceus (Siebold und Kolliker, Zeitsch, B. II.). Leydig, Zur Anatomie von Piscicola geo- metrica (Zeitsch. I.). Leydig, Ueber Artemia salina und Branchipus stagnalis (Zeitsch. III.) Hollard, Re'cherches sur les Caracteres anatomiques des De'- pendances de la Peau ehez les Animaux Articule's (Revue et Mag. de Zoologie, 1851). Meissner, Beitrage zur Anatomie und Physiologie von Mermis albicans (Siebold und Kolliker's Zeitschrift, 1853). Quatrefages, numerous Memoirs in the Annales des Sciences. Mollosca. — Poll, Testacea utriusque Sicilian, 1791. Gray, Some Observations on the Economy of Molluscous Animals (Phil. Trans. 1833). Car- penter, Report, &c. (Reports Brit. Assoc. 1845). Leydig, Ueber Paludina vivipara (Siebold und Kol- liker's Zeitschrift, 1850). Leydig, Anatomische Bemerkungen ueber Carinaria, Firola, und Amphi- ora (Zeitschrift, 1851). (T. H. Huxley.) RUMINANTIA (Lat. ruminare, to chew the cud), Eng. Ruminants; Fr. Ruminans ; Get. Wiederlc'duende Thiere, — a well denned order of mammalian quadrupeds, presenting the following essential characters: Upper jaw in nearly all cases destitute of incisor teeth, their place being supplied by a callous pad, while the lower jaw has six incisives ; canines inconstant ; molars usually six on each side of both jaws, with flattened crowns surmounted by two double and irregularly crescentic folds of enamel. Stomach com- pound and divided into four cavities, so as to provide for the ruminating act. Ccecum large. Placenta generally in the form of cotyledons. Feet ungulate and bisulcate. This order forms two natural divisions, comprising the Hornless ruminants (akera- tophora, Col. H. Smith) which are few in number, and the Horned ruminants (kera- tophora) which are very numerous. The English naturalist Ray, who was the first to propose a classification based on philosophical principle, enumerated only fifteen species. Pallas subsequently divided the entire family into six genera, and the Baron Cuvier into eight or nine; but the number of subdivisions held to constitute genera by later authorities has been very greatly extended. To serve our present purpose we shall retain only the Linnean and two other genera, which may be conveniently arranged under the five following heads or sub-orders : — {Camelus - - Linn. Auchenia - - Illiger. TMoschus - - Linn. < Cervus - - Linn. (Camelopardalis - Linn. f Antilope - - Linn. \ Catohlepas - Smith. (Capra - - Linn. (Ovis - - Linn. Bovis - - Linn. differ in many important particulars from the horned ruminants, and exhibit an approximation to the Pachy- dermata. The dental formula is peculiar; thus in the genus Camelus there are,— i ; e. ; p. m. ; m = 30 '•33' 1 1 ' ^ 11' 33 and in this respect the Auchenias, or Llamas, disagree only in the number of molars, which is usually fourteen. The distinguishing fea- tures of this family depend principally upon I. CAMELIDzE II. Cervid^e III. Antilopid^e - IV. QSgosceridye - V. BOVlDiE - The Camelidas