OVUM. 9 ual production ; the second as coming under the category of alternate generation ; and the Vortieella-embryo of the Aeineta-form either repeats its gemmal multiplication, or becomes encysted, and gives rise then by its nuclear division to embryonal production. Other new forms of Infusoria are described by Stein under the names Spirochona gemmipara, Dendrocometes paradoxus, and Lageno- phrys vaginicola, ampulla, and nassa, in whicli the mode of reproduction is somewhat similar. These observations at once show the im- portance of the views entertained by some authors as to the share the nucleus may take in new production, and strongly indicate that much still remains to be known from ob- servation of the processes of reproduction among the Infusoria. Should these observations be confirmed, another analogy, in addition to those already observed, will be shown to exist between the organisation and functions of the Protozoa, and those of the lowest plants.* The ten- dency of various other recent researches, to which it has been impossible to refer more particularly in this place, seems to be to show that, in addition to the more common and obvious mode of multiplication by division and gemmation, by which the Infusoria, when vigorous and well nourished, are reproduced, there are other means by which, in dif- ferent circumstances, the more permanent re- production of the species may be secured ; that minute cells are formed within them for that purpose, which may at present be called reproductive cell-germs rather than ova, till a more complete knowledge shall have been obtained of their nature and of the circumstances attending their formation ; and that it is very probable that in the protozoa, as in the simplest plants, the com- bination of the contents of two cells, to all appearance similar, may, as in the process of conjugation, be the necessary preliminary step to the development of the reproductive germs. It ought at the same time to be kept in view that the Infusoria may, like many other animals, be subject, some to metamorphosis, and others to alternate generations. Already, since the publication of the great work of Ehrenberg, most important modifications of his system of these animals have been found necessary, and it seems almost certain that it is destined to undergo still farther changes, many of those forms which are now recog- nised as belonging to distinct genera and species being possibly no more than different stages of development of the same animal. 2nd. Of the 'possibility of primary, direct, or non-parental production of animals, or of so- called spontaneous and equivocal generation. From what has before been stated as to the very general, and almost universal, existence of the sexual mode of generation among ani- mals, and from the reasons that have been given for the belief that in those few and simple animals in which a sexual distinction * See the recent work of Alex. Braun, entitled Die Verjungung in der Natur, Freiburg, 1849. has not yet been ascertained, there may still be propagation by means of minute germs, the reader will already have drawn a con- clusion as to the very'insufficient nature of the proof that can now be adduced in favour of the view that certain animals may arise independently of pre-existing individuals of the same species. The hypothesis might, per- haps, be at once dismissed with the remark of a recent writer*, " that it is safer to trust to generally prevailing laws, than to confide in such of our observations as are contrary to them." But as in the article Generation f, the author was led by a careful examination of the evidence then available on the subject, to admit the probability of the non-parental mode of production as an exceptional occur- rence, at least among the lowest tribes of animals and plants, and as that hypothesis has since gradually lost more and more of its pro- bability, from the accumulated opposing proofs resulting from more recent researches, so as, in his opinion, to be now no longer tenable, it may be proper at this place to review briefly the bearing of the present more advanced knowledge "of the generative process upon this long and keenly debated question. Admitting, in the meantime, that the ova, or separate "germs of Infusoria, have not yet been discovered with certainty, there are not wanting direct experiments which demonstrate that in an infusion of organic matter which would, when exposed to the air, naturally furnish a rapid succession of these produc- tions, the development of living organisms is entirely suspended, if the arrangements are made such as to render it impossible for any germ or other part of a previously existing infusorian animalcule or plant to be communicated to the infusion. The experi- ments of Schultze and of Schwann are valuable, as appearing to have secured, in a great measure, the above-mentioned con- ditions, without otherwise interfering with the validity of the result. The first of these ob- Fie. 6. Apparatus employed bij Schultze to prevent the access of germs by the air to an infusion. a, flask for infusion; b, tube, with caustic potash; c, tube, with sulphuric acid. * Eschrieht, in Edinr. New Phil. Joum. vol. xxxi. 1841. p. 355. f P. 429.