2d» STOMACH AND INTESTINE. v 4 The reader will, however, observe, that the title of the following article does not announce an essay on the process of digestion, or the various organs which effect it; but limits itself to two portions of the alimentary canal, hitherto undescribed in this work. But it is impossible to treat of the functions of the stomach and intestine except in connection with the entire process in which they take so large a share. While the numerous observa- tions and researches which have been made since the appearance of the earlier article Digestion require some notice in the Supplement of which the present essay forms a part. For these reasons the author has felt it advisable not to confine himself too strictly to the exact limits which the heading " Sto- mach and Intestine" might seem to imply. Hence, though the following essay will treat chiefly of the above segments of the alimentary canal, it will also comprise a very brief account of whatever is at present known concerning the whole digestive act. Commencing by a rough sketch of the anatomy of these parts in the animal kingdom, we shall successively consider, their structure and functions in the human subject ; their relation to digestion and nutri- tion ; and finally, their appearances in disease. Comparative Anatomy.— In the Infuso- ria, whose minuteness places them at the lowest extremity of the animal kingdom, the organ of digestion has already attained such a development as to form the chief basis of their nomenclature. One or two genera present us with a rare and exceptional condition :—viz. the absence of all traces of digestive cavity. Such are the parasitic Gregarina and Opallna; in whom, as in some of the Entozoa, digestion and absorption appear reduced to a simple phy- sical process of endosmosc, which carries the nutritious substances dissolved in the fluid medium they inhabit at once into the mass of their corporeal juices. The Poh/gastria possess a plurality of stomachs or internal sacs ; and the relations of these to the intestine, together with the con- dition of the latter tube, subdivide this group into numerous families and genera. Thus many are named "anenterous," because they appear to be devoid of intestine. Of these the Alouas termo—which has four or five globular stomachs, of ^A-Troth of an inch in diameter, appended immediately to its mouth—may be taken as the type. Others possess similar sacs in connection with a simple Intestine ; and are chiefly distinguished by the straight, curved, or wavy course of this canal,—or by the single or double character, anil lateral or terminal position, of its apertures. Most of them devour a living prey of kindred Infuso- ria;—prehension being often visibly effected by cilia, the voluntary action of which carries a current of food into the mouth, or removes egesta by a simple reversal of the stream. And sometimes this act of ingestion ordinarily sufficient, are capable of being locally exhausted by the excessive demands of a particular class or species, and renewed by an artiiiciul supply. is aided by a dental apparatus, in the shape of a hallow cylinder enclosing long teeth,— as in the genus Napala. The Rotifera are so named from the cur- rents produced by their prehensile cilia; which are here limited to groups surrounding the mouth of the animal. Many of them have an organ of mastica- tion. This usually consists of three pieces : —each of the two facets of a kind of anvil being worked upon by the rough or toothed terminal surface of a recurved jaw, the longer limb of which receives a muscle at its extremity. The intestinal canal generally exhibits a pharyngeal enlargement, which is followed by a narrow "oesophagus," of varying length, ending in a wider " intestine." In the Gasterodeta a dilatation, called a stomach, pre- cedes the intestine. In the Rotifer vulgaris and others, an almost globular enlargement of the narrow canal is so immediately followed by the constricted cloaca, as to have been com- pared to a large intestine. The organ of digestion is also often complicated by the presence of blind tubes ; which vary, not only in number and size, but also in posi- tion, and possibly in import. Thus they may open, either into an uniform and narrow canal, or into the commencement of the intestine, or into the presumed gastric dilatation ;—or, finally, as in the Uiglaena laenstris, a set of such tubes may occupy both of these latter situa- tions. The various members of the order Entozoa are grouped together in obedience to a classi- fication which is here and there arbitrary and anomalous, but in the main both natural and useful. It offers three chief varieties of the digestive organ, all of which are very inte- resting. a. In many — as in the Eehinococci and their congeners—no trace of a special digestive cavity is present. Without mouth, stomach, or intestine, the creature floats free in the cavity of its enclosing cyst, or buries its barbed head in the tissues of a living habitation;—whose juices, thus brought into relation with its exterior, are applied to its nourishment by what seems to be rather a process of endosmose than of digestion pro- perly so called. /:>. In other genera belonging to the Cestoid and Trematoid divisions, there is, however, a canal, which is apparently related to digestion, and the main features of which—repetition and ramification—may be represented by the Tcenia and Distoma respectively. For example, in the Tape worm, a minute mouth opens into a slender tube, the bifurca- tions of which reach the margins of the body where this begins to assume its regular jointed form. From hence onwards the canal might be compared to a ladder, with rungs at the fore and aft extremity of each joint, at the right angles of which its longitudinal and transverse branches unite. It is probable that these canals possess valves. But whether they have any constant or valid terminal ori- fices seems doubtful.