STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 401 charged with the water, fat, albumen, salts, and extractive, which it has taken up from the food, and from the secretions of the diges- tive organs, reaches a large gland. There it breaks up, as it were,into two streams of fluid: bile, and hepatic-venous blood. And hence, the composition of these two fluid products, compared with its own, might be expected to give us a clue to the process by which they originate, if not to the action of the secreting structure itself. Such an examination would show that the hepatic blood has lost almost all the fibrin, half the albumen, much of the water, and half the fat (even more of the elain) present in the portal vein. It has gained in extrac- tive, and especially (ten to sixteen times as much) in sugar. And its pale corpuscles are increased in number. On the other hand, the organic constituents of the bile are chiefly fatty substances, espe- cially the fatty cholic acid and its congeners. The quantity and quality of most of these sub- stances show that they have probably been formed in the liver : and hence that their pre- sence in the bi'e is not to be explained as a mere transudation of certain dissolved con- stituents of the blood, followed by their con- centration in the gland, such as might be alleged in the ease of most of its salts. But here for the present we rest. Sugar on the one hand, and certain fatty acids on the other, appear to be formed in the liver ; at the expense of fat, albumen, and fibrin. Until accurate quantitative researches establish whether the disappearance of the protein- compounds is sufficiently accounted for by the total increase of extractive and of pale corpuscles in the bile and hepatic vein, the exact source of these substances must re- main a mystery. Schmidt, indeed, suggests, that the fat of the portal blood is decomposed in the liver into the sugar and cholic acid which its elements would exactly make up. But while we are justified in giving every consideration to a view which seems so con- sonant with the facts hitherto known, we must be careful to remember that it is on these facts, and not on the neatness of any formula, that its value entirely depends. Un- supported by them, it would be a mere ar- rangement of certain letters and figures, de- void of all real significance, and destined to the oblivion to which thousands of its predecessors in the literature — not the science — of chemistry are daily being con- signed. Development. — The development of the alimentary canal, like that of other or- gans, offers a series of complicated changes, the details of which often have but little visible or direct relation with the future function of the part. Hence any minute description of the process would be quite out of place in this essay. The author therefore limits himself to a brief sketch of its general outline ; and for all further details begs to refer the reader to the article " Ovum." Supj). Just as the completely developed intestinal tube might almost be described as the involu- tion of an extremely vascular cell-growth, so its origin distinctly refers it to those two germinal layers of the embryo from which such mucous and vascular structures are re- spectively derived. The centre of the early ovum consists of three layers ; the upper or serous, the middle or vascular, and the under or mucous, lamina. A portion of each of the two latter is folded inwards, to form the rudiment of the alimentary canal. And the whole history of the subsequent development of this tube is little more than a recital of the various steps and processes, by which these mucous and vascular structures are so arranged as to result in the characteristic form, the nu- merous segments, and the complex structure, which have been briefly described in the fore- going pages. The formation of the tube begins by the separation of the united vascular and mucous layers from the serous lamina immediately above them. An increase of this separation prolongs their attachment to the serous layer into a simple and rudimentary mesentery. Each end of the canal is then mapped out, by the conjoined laminae being bent down- wards and inwards, so as to give rise to two shallow pits or fossae: which are named the fovea cardiaca, seu aditus ad vntestinum ante- rior ; and the foveola caudalis, seu aditus ad intestinum posterior. These two fossae, how- ever, do not correspond to the future mouth and anus; but to the cardiac aperture of the stomach, and to the middle segment of the rectum respectively. And between them, a lateral inflection of the con joined mucous and vascular layers gives the canal two sides, the lamina? intestinales; which, like the similar vertebral plates of the serous layer, bound a shallow groove. This groove, the fissura intestinalis, is rapidly converted into a tube, by the closing in of its inferior or open surface. The process of closure begins at each ex- tremity of the groove, and runs rapidly to- wards its centre; but is arrested here, so as to leave an opening or umbilicus, by means of which the intestine is connected with the umbilical vesicle that replaces the vitelline membrane and yolk. But there does not seem to be any direct continuity of the vitel- line and intestinal cavities with each other through the channel formed by this umbili- cal ("omphalo-enteric") duct: — at least not such an aperture as to allow of the yolk itself being immediately received into the intestine. As the umbilical vesicle gradually removes from the intestine, this duct undergoes a cor- responding elongation. Its canal becomes obliterated prior to the degeneration and dis- appearance of the tube itself. The simple straight cylindrical canal, the development of which has thus been traced out, resembles the permanent intestinal tube of many of the lower animals ; with* the ex- ception that, as above stated, it is deficient in both terminal segments. These it next ac- quires. And at the same time that it does so, D D