OVUM. 30 not itself converted by any direct process of development or metamorphosis into a perfect Distoma, but has gradually formed from germ- cells within it a progeny, sometimes of one, more frequently a number of bodies, which, when they arrive at maturity, present each one an external form and internal structure and locomotive powers, entitling them to be con- sidered as independent animals. Nor are these directly converted into Distomata ; but again there is formed within the body of each, and in the same gradual manner from germ-cells, a new progeny of animals nearly similar to those producing them and equally differing from the complete Distomata. Each of this new progeny, as it increases in size, has formed within it by development from germ-cells the third progeny of the series, and the last of the cycle ; but these are different from their immediate parents, and in their internal or- ganisation soon manifest the type of the true Trematode. These animals are endowed for a time with very active locomotive powers, to which a long caudal appendage con- tributes ; their two progenitors have been confined in the parasitic condition, but these Fig. 28. Series of changes in the development mid generations oj Distoma. (From Steenstmp.') o, Ovum with embryo or larva developed in it. e, this embryo in a free moving state; el, another embryo in its interior. (These are of Monostonmm mutabile, from V. Siebold.) e, this last embryo farther advanced. 1, first stage, soon after it becomes free; 2 and 3, farther on, with g, the second generation, within them in various stages. G, 1, one of this second generation at an early period of its advancement; 2 and 3, farther on, with c, c, CercariaB or Distoma-larvae, within them; g1, one of the granular globules from which the Distoma larva? and previous generations arise near the posterior part of the body. c, one of the Cercariae or Distoma larva with its caudal appendage, r, the same, passed into its en- cysted or pupa state, having previously lost its tail. d, Distomata. 1, young Distoma immediately after it has quitted the cyst, and has penetrated a short distance into the body of the snail; 2, Distoma found deep in the viscera. are in general freed from confinement, and move about with great vivacity for a time in the water surrounding the animals which their progenitors have infested. In this state they have long been known as Cercarise, and as they have been supposed to be the young of Distomata, have attracted peculiar notice among llelminthologists.* The free Cercarise are not, however, directly converted into Distomata; but appear always to undergo a previous metamorphosis in a chrysalis state, or enclosed in a pupa cyst. * Nitsch, Beitrag zur Infusorienkunde, &c, Halle, 1817; Bojanus, in Isis, 1818; A remarkable and interesting scries of papers by V. Baer, in Nov. Act. Nat. Curios. 1826, vol. xiii.; Rud. Wagner, in Isis, 1834; V. Siebold, in Burdach's Physiol, vol. ii. of German edit. p. 187., or vol. iii. of French transl., p. 32., &c. Previous to the formation of this cyst the Cercarise adhere to, and bore into, the sub- stance of the animal infested by the Disto- mata; the tail is cast off, an exudation from their own bodies forms the cyst, which en- closes them : within this they remain for many weeks, and even months, moving all the while, and undergoing changes of develop- ment, by which they are at last converted into the complete Distoma. The greater number of the observations from which this remarkable process of gene- ration has been ascertained to occur are due to V. Siebold and Steenstmp; but the whole succession of changes has not yet been ob- served in any one species, and it is to the latter observer especially that the scientific world is indebted for the ingenious com- bination and interpretation of the scattered