576 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. of membrana granulosa. The walls of the follicle are not yellow, and contain no oil globules. They are slightly thicker than those of the healthy follicle. Their compo- nent tissues are precisely those which have been already described as characterising the ovisac in its normal condition ; the chief bulk of their texture being made up of gra- nules and embryonic fibres intermixed with a few developed fibres of ordinary white fibrous tissue. Such a condition may, for want of a better designation, be regarded as hyperaemia of the follicle, or it might perhaps be more appro- priately termed hypertrophy of the follicle ; but in whatever light it may be regarded, it constitutes one of the early stages of those enormous growths, of which more will be said hereafter. A more extensive form of congestion, affect- ing the parenchyma of both ovaries, and as- sociated with a like hyperaemic condition of the uterus, may be sometimes observed about the period of the final cessation of menstruation. The ovaries are then occasionally found of an intense red colour, from the parenchyma, as well as the follicular walls, being deeply loaded with blood. The most marked instances of this I have observed in connection with car- diac disease, and associated with congestion of other organs. Inflammation of the Ovary.— Ovaritis.— Oophoritis.—Our knowledge of the patholo- gical changes which the ovary undergoes as the result of inflammation, is chiefly derived from examination of the bodies of women who have died of acute puerperal metro-peri- tonitis. But unquestionably inflammation both in the acute and chronic form may affect the substance of the ovary, independently of the puerperal or pregnant states, and cause various degenerations of the tissues of that organ, as evidenced by those serous, fibrinous, and puriform deposits, or general softening of the ovarian parenchyma, which are occa- sionally found after death. It is probable also, from symptoms displayed during lifc, that inflammation, especially in a chronic form, not unfrequently attacks the ovary and termi- nates in resolution, or in those milder results of inflammation which consist in temporary induration or enlargement of the organ, unac- companied by serious disintegration of its tissues. It must, however, be observed with regard to the evidences of inflammation of the ovary either in the acute or chronic form, which are supposed to be afforded during life, consisting in pain and tenderness referred to the seat of that organ, or in obvious enlargements of the ovary, as discoverable by various modes of internal or external tactile examination, and conjoined with more or less constitutional dis- turbance, that these signs may and do often in the non-puerperal state, accompany the natural process of ovulation, and that such symptoms, recurring with each menstrual pe- riod, may affect a woman at intervals in a greater or less degree during the whole of that period of life in which she is capable of child- bearing. But in the present state of our knowledge of ovarian processes it is perhaps not possible to determine how much of these symptoms may be regarded as evidence of a natural, and how much of a morbid change in the part; for although in many women the process of ovulation is continually performed without consciousness of local suffering, yet in a great number of instances the act is accompanied by much pain, and there can be no question that the cause of much of this suffering is to be looked for in the changes which the tissues of the ovary undergo in the act of expelling the ova. How closely this process in its more ob- vious conditions is allied to inflammation has been already shown. A high degree of vas- cularity of the part, with increased exudation of fluid, and consequent enlargement and ten- sion of the entire organ terminating in spon- taneous laceration of its coats by a process very similar to ulceration, and often accom- panied or preceded by a more or less consi- derable escape of blood : these together form a combination or series of processes closely allied in their nature to inflammation, and frequently evidenced externally by signs usually regarded as characteristic pf inflammatory action. Nor is it yet known how far these sym- ptoms, which have generally been assumed to indicate ovarian inflammation, especially in a chronic form, may be merely the external evi- dences, not of natural, but of aberrant or dis- appointed ovulation. For just as an abscess is painful generally in exact proportion to the unyielding nature or tension of the parts by which it is surrounded, so it is probable that when the follicle or the entire ovary becomes tense from the effusions which have been shown to have taken place ordinarily within it, and this tension is not relieved because rupture does not occur at the proper time, so that ovulation is disappointed or is aberrant, the symptoms which might be expected to ac- company such an interrupted process would be those which are usually set down as indi- cating inflammation in a part. This matter appears hitherto to have been hardly thought of, and yet it is probable that to abortive or interrupted ovulation may be referred the commencement of many of those morbid conditions of the ovary which are not either malignant or the direct results of inflammatory action. Probably many of the cystic diseases of the ovary originate in this way. Of disappointed ovulation, as it may be observed in animals, instances have been given at page 568. Here the follicles, although apparently preparing for rupture, were arrested in their progress from some un- explained cause ; and although it may be con- jectured that such follicles might, under an increase of stimulus, accomplish their final purpose, as Coste has supposed in reference to the instance just quoted, yet it has been shown by the researches of Barry that mul- titudes of ovisacs perish without accomplish-