238 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). nema),* resembling in all its relations to the future plant, the mycelium of the Fungi and Lichens. 73. First period.—Germination of the spore.\ —The spore of the Mosses is a nucleated cell, the solid contents of which are granular, and consist of protein compounds, starch and dex- trine. From the budding out of its membrane, results a hollow filament, which, as it lengthens, divides by a succession of transverse septa. It then begins to branch in all directions, each branch resembling the parent, and rami- fying in the same manner. Hence results an entangled network of filaments of a brilliant green colour, which spreads over the moist surface on which the spores have been sown. At length some of the filaments are observed to give off lateral branches which differ from those previously formed in being more slender and containing less chlorophylle. In some of these the terminal cell, after dividing four or five times, becomes globular, and is transformed into the rudiment of a leafy axis. 74. Develop>ment of the antheridia and arche- gonia. — These organs are usually found in groups, which are situated either at the termi- nation of the stem or branches, or in the axils of the leaves. In either case they are surrounded (with the exception, in many genera, of the axillary antheridia) by special arrangements of modified leaves (involucres). Those involucres which surround the antheridia are called perigonia, and are composed of leaves much smaller than the ordinary leaves of the stem. Those leaves which enclose the archegonia, small at first, attain a large size as the fruit approaches maturity. In some (hermaphro- dite) mosses, both antheridia and archegonia are contained in one involucre. 75. In the very diminutive plants belonging to the genus Phascum, which we select as ex- amples on account of their great simplicity of structure, the groups of archegonia are termi- nal, those of antheridia usually axillary. The growing extremity of the stem (terminal bud) or axillary bud, when destined to bear repro- ductive organs, instead of developing to a new axis, becomes flattened in such a manner as to present a slightly convex disc, which takes the place of its conical growing extremity. It is upon the surface of this disc that the rudi- ments, whether of antheridia or of archegonia, originate, by a process precisely similar to that which we have described in the commencing development of the antheridia of Anthoceros. The rudiment consists, as in Anthoceros, of four columns of cells, combined so as to form a cylindrical club-shaped body. The development and ultimate form of the arche- gonium corresponds so completely with what has been described in the Jungermannia?, that * From the very recent observations of Gronland (Mem. sur la Germination des Spores de quelques Hepatiques, Ann. des Sc. Nat. 3me- S.xx.), it appears that among the higher Hepatiea? with cut leaves, the first result of germination is always a branched and septate filamentous protonema, resembling that of the Mosses in its relation to the leafy stem. •j- Hofmeister, toe. cit. pp. 65 — 71.; Bruch & Schimper, Bryologia Europsea, Fasc. i. p. 5. it is unnecessary to describe it. formed antheridium of Phascum Fig. 165. The fully is a club- Section of termination of fruitful stem of Phascum cuspidatum, 50 diain. On the right a female, on the left a male inflo- rescence. From the slightly convex surface which forms the summit of the stem, spring in the one case the archegonia, in the other the antheridia, along with numerous jointed fila- ments. shaped body of about the same length as the archegonium, and consists of a central mass of minute quadrangular cells, which is enclosed by a single layer of tabular cells, in contact with each other by their edges. Shortly be- fore the antheridium arrives at maturity, the quadrangular cells, each of which contains a spiral filament enclosed in a lentil-shaped vesicle, are dislocated. This is followed by the total disappearance of their membranes, so that the vesicles float free in the cavity of the now ripe antheridium. No sooner is this the case than the organ gives way at its summit, and discharges its contents in the form of an intestine-like coil of mucus, consisting of the lenticular vesicles with their contents. Soon after, this is dissolved, and the spiral filaments commence their active motions. 76. Development of the fruit. — The early stages correspond with those described in Pel- lia. At a period when the lower dilated portion of the archegonium is about five^times its ori- ginal length, the young fruit, which is a fusiform cellular body, does not occupy more than its upper half. In the meantime the cells form- ing the tissue subjacent to, or in the immediate neighbourhood of, the base of the fructified archegonium, have multiplied with such acti- vity, that the end of the stem has again assumed the form of a cone, on the summit of which the fruit is borne, while the aborted archegonia are scattered round its sides. In its further development, the fruit grows much more rapidly in length than in breadth, and in con- sequence of its extension upwards being op- posed by the resistant structure of the canal of the archegonium, its lower end presses downwards in such a manner as to cause the absorption, not only of the cellular tissue of the archegonium, which is subjacent to it, but of that of the conical summit of the stem. In