OVUM. 73 colour, and in the boiled egg by its softer consistence and less granular appearance, is found by microscopic examination to consist of organised corpuscles floating in a larger portion of fluid, and different from those of the external part of the yolk. The transition from the one kind of corpuscles to the other in these two portions of the yolk, is not sudden ; but many gradations of intermediate forms are to be met with on the confines of the two regions. In the central part of the cavity or latebra, which, when boiled, appears like a thick milky fluid, corpuscles very different from those of the external part are to be found (see Jig. 52, c). They are almost all of a very regular spherical form with a delicate and clear, but distinct vesicular wall ; the interior of the vesicle is occupied by a perfectly limpid fluid, and by one or several highly refracting globules of various sizes, not exactly similar to nuclei, but rather like oil globules, floating within the cell and moving with freedom from one part of it to another. The diameter of the clear vesicles varies from Ti_ to of an inch, the most being about -swo > therefore about half the size of the granular corpuscles of the yellow yolk. The internal oil globules are of very various sizes, the largest being generally about a third or a fourth of the diameter of the enclosing vesicle. Mingled with these vesicles, there are also floating in the fluid of the yolk cavity in considerable numbers, but in less quantity than the vesicles them- selves, a set of simple highly refracting globules, exactly similar to those contained within the vesicles from which we may sup- pose they have been set free. These oil-like globules are of every variety of size, from the minutest point up to -x^y or To'oo °f an inch. Towards the surface of the yoik cavity and canal, and extending below the cicatricula, where the vitelline substance gradually passes into the darker yellow yolk, the microscope shows some mixture of and transitions be- tween the several cells or corpuscles before described, those of the intermediate structure being in greatest numbers ; these exhibit very various gradations of deposit within them, from the finest granular particles in some, to larger and fewer oil-like globules in others. In most of these transition corpuscles a delicate vesicular wall is perceptible. In the more ad- vanced of these transition forms, as the minute granules are in the process of uniting into larger and larger oil globules, and at last coa- lesce into a very few or into a single one, the condensation of the exterior layer increases to form a vesicular wall, and a separation of an albuminous fluid from the oil globules takes place within (see /%. 52, b). It is these vesi- cular globules of the cavity which, according to Iteichert, are the more immediate source of additions to the germinal membrane in the course of development ; for the cavity and canal expand, as it were, at the expense of the yellow yolk, and as these inner globules increase the extension of the haloes and change of colour of the yolk in the first days of incubation spreads rapidly over its surface below the germinal vesicle. 3. Cicatricula or proUgerous disc. — There does not appear to be any marked difference as to the minute structure of the mass of the yolk and its cavity in the newly laid egg and in the mature ovarian ovulum ; but the cica- tricula undergoes a great change during the passage of the ovum through the oviduct, which is indicated in a marked manner by the difference in its microscopic structure. During this period, besides the loss of the germinal vesicle, the cicatricula has undergone the peculiar process of segmentation and cell formation, upon the details of which it is my intention to return in connection with the special history of that process in the ovum of mammalia, batrachia, and other animals. The cicatricula of the laid egg is, in fact, after having undergone this process, the organised blastoderm or germinal membrane in which, under the influence of the heat of incubation' the rudiments of the embryo take their origin. It already consists, before incubation, of two layers of organised cells, which are the indica- tion or earliest condition of the upper or serous, and lower or mucous layers, which were de- scribed by Pander and Von Baer as taking their origin only after incubation for some hours.* ( See fig. 52, d.) The cells of the upper layer are about ^ of an inch in diameter. They are closely set and very slightly connected together in a continuous layer one cell thick, presenting a smoother upper surface next the vitelline membrane. Each cell consists of an external vesicular wall, a distinct nucleus, and some granular deposit. The nucleus is highly re- fracting. The cells of the lower layer are nearly double the size of the upper ones, more regularly spherical and less closely connected together. They do not in general present any single nucleus, but rather a small mass of granules and oil-like spherules within them, giving them much of the appearance, though smaller in size, of the corpuscles found be- tween the cavity and rest of the yolk. In the cicatricula or proligerous disc of the ovarian yolk, on the other hand, containing the germinal vesicle set in its centre, the microscope shows no truly organised cells, but only a mass of simple spherules of very various sizes, but the largest of which for the most part are less than half the diameter of the cells in the upper layer of the blas- toderm of the laid egg. They are without any nucleus, and have all the appearance of simple solid spherules from stjut; to y-1 of an inch in diameter, of considerable retracting power, and, indeed, very similar to the nuclei of the cells in the upper blastodermic layer. Vitelline membrane.—The condensed layer of structureless membrane which has gene- * The most exact descriptions of the minute structure of the cicatricula are those of Schwann in his Microscopic Researches; of Beichert, in his Beitrage zur heutige Entwickelungsgeschichte, &c • and Remak, in his Beitrage zur Entwick. des' Hunncnens, &c, 1850.