UTERUS—(Abnormal Anatomy). 683 retained by them after the pelvis has changed its form, may give rise to the malformation under consideration.* b. Retroflexion exhibits the converse pecu- liarity, the body of the uterus being bent back- wards upon the neck at such an angle that the fundus occupies a position more or less deep between the cervix and rectum, filling and distending the pouch of Douglas. This condition of the uterus ought not to be con- founded with retroversion or with those retro- uterine tumours produced by inflammation, and effusion into the cellular tissue (fig- 433., g) at the back of the cervix, of which an account will be presently given. See p. 688. c. Lateral inflexion. — The uterine body ex- hibits occasionally an inclination to lateral curvature, so that the fundus is directed to- wards one or other side. A curvature out- wards, in the form of an arch more or less deflected from the meridian, has been shown to be the usual condition of the uterus uni- cornus. But where a tendency towards either side is shown in the otherwise normally formed organ, this appears to arise from some inequality in the development of the two uterine halves; or it may depend upon one half undergoing hypertrophy, so that in either case one uterine angle lies higher than the other, and a vertical line would divide the organ into two unequal parts. The cervix is here curved as well as the body, or the latter may remain perpendicular while the body is bent so as to form an angle with the cervix. The former variety has been designated the retort-shaped uterus. Anomalies of Position. Obliquity of position, Hysteroloxia, Metro- loxica, Obliquitas uteri.—The foregoing defects should not be confounded with those devia- tions in position, without alteration of form, which constitute the various obliquities of the uterus; — like the inflexions of the uterus they are distinguished according as the organ is directed forwards or backwards in the median line, or laterally in the transverse diameter of the pelvis. a. Anti- and retro-versions. Situs uteri obliquus anterior et jiosterior. — Anti-version of the uterus is by no means so common as retro- version. Both affections differ from the cor- responding anti- and retro-flexions of the organ in this respect, that while in the two latter cases the point of flexion is usually at the seat of junction of the body with the cervix uteri, in the former the uterus remains straight or nearly so, while the entire organ is directed forwards or backwards, and the seat of flexion is at the junction of the cervix with the va- gina. The displacement of the uterus is here far more considerable than in the former cases. In anti-version the degree of uterine dis- * See a paper in the Trans. Micr. Soc. vol. v. pi. 7.; Quarterly Journ. Microscop, Scien., July, 1857, in which I have figured a human embryo "of four weeks, exhibiting this peculiarity in a marked degree. placement is limited by the bladder and an- terior wall of the pelvis, which generally prevent the fundus from sinking so far for- wards, as to give the entire uterus in the unimpregnated state more than a horizontal direction. An extreme degree of anti-version however sometimes occurs at an advanced period of pregnancy in multiparas, on account of an unusual laxity of the abdominal walls permitting the whole uterus to fall forwards, so as to occupy the artificial pouch formed by the pendulous abdomen, the fundus filling the bottom of the pouch, while the cervix and os uteri are tilted upwards and backwards, the latter being lifted out of the pelvis, and point- ing above the promontory of the sacrum. This malposition materially impedes labour by reversing the natural direction of the uterine axis, so that the propelling force is expended upon those parts that lie opposite to the os, and the foetal head is prevented from entering the pelvic brim. Retro-version occurs in conditions of the uterus otherwise normal, or it may happen when the organ is enlarged by disease or preg- nancy. When unimpregnated the displaced organ lies entirely, and when pregnant chiefly, within the pelvic cavity. In retro-version, on account of the excavation of the sacrum, the fundus readily descends so low as to admit of the normal relations of position of the os and fundus being nearly reversed. The latter being directed downwards and backwards towards the coccyx, while the former is tilted upwards Fig. 468. Metro-version of the uterus. (Diagram.) and forwards, so as to lie behind, or in ex- treme cases above, the symphysis pubis. In extreme retro-version a line drawn through the uterine cavity would represent nearly the normal axis of this organ, but instead of pass- ing out backwards through the posterior cer- vical wali, it will pass out forward through the anterior wall, because the stretching of the vagina in these cases will cause a slight degree of flexion of the cervix downwards. The sequelae of this displacement in the case of the gravid uterus, when artificial or spun-