UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 596 therefore, the course which each of these organs takes, is different for either sex. The male Wolffian body never disappears in all its parts, but is converted into the epididy- mis in such a manner that the middle line of cascal tubes {Jig. 401.c c) is transformed into the 18—20 coni vasculosi (fig. 402. c) ; while their straight and open ends, as vasa efferen- tia, establish a communication with the rete vasculosum testis. The upper blind pouches (JigAOX.a, 6) and the bulb (/) of the excre- tory duct disappear, or become converted into the hydatids (fig. 402. b, /) upon the head of the epididymis, while the inferior pouches (fig. 401. d) disappear in part, and in part become elongated and tortuous, without forming any connection with the testis. These constitute the hitherto enigmatical vasa aber- rantia of Ilaller (fig. 402. d). The excretory duct of the Wolffian body (fig. 401. e) is converted into the canal of the epididymis, (fig. 402. e), and ultimately into the vas deferens, and whilst the retro- gression and final obliteration of the terminal part of this duct takes place normally in the female, (fig. 403. e) it constitutes a patho- logical condition when it occurs in the male. The terminal bulb (fig. 401. i) of the duct of Miiller is converted into the hydatid of Mor- gagni (fig. 402. i), whilst its inferior por- tion (jig. 401. h) still exists, at a later period in the anterior border of the epidi- dymis (fig. 402. //). Tracing the development of the corre- sponding structures from the same point of departure as in the male, we find that in the female, also, the Wolffian body never dis- appears entirely, but is employed in the for- mation of the parovarium. Its middle blind Fig. 403. Adult parovarium, ovary, and Fallopian tube. (After Kobelt.) a a, entire series of tubules of the original Wolffian body; b, remains of the upper set, which occasionally become distended by collections of fluid, and constitute one form of dropsy of the broad ligament; c, middle set of tubules forming the principal part of the parovarium; d, lower set atrophied, answering to the vasa aberrantia in the male; e, atrophied remains of the excretory duct of the Wolffian body; f, terminal bulb of the same, converted here into the hydatid often seen attached to the broad ligament; h, the former duct of Miiller, now Fallopian tube, with its infundibulum, from which hangs the terminal bulb, now converted into a pedunculated hydatid; /, generative gland, now the ovary. These three last figures are from Kobelt, whose views they illustrate. The letters refer to correspond- ing parts in each. excretory duct of the Wolffian body (/g.401, c) for the male, the capability of conver- sion into either sex exists at this time in every individual. The division of sex begins to be anatomi- cally discoverable by the development of one, Fig. 402. Adult testis and epididymis, anterior view. (After Kobelt.) a a, entire series of metamorphosed tubules of the original Wolffian body ; 6, remains of the upper set, converted into the hydatid in the head of the epidi- dymis ; e, the middle set converted into the coni vasculosi; (/, the lower set converted into the vasa aberrantia; e, excretory duct of the Wolffian body, now the canal of the epididymis and vas deferens; f, bulb of the same, now a so-called hydatid ; h, duct of Miiller, not destined to be developed in the male; i, terminal bulb of the same, now the hydatid of Morgagni; g, hydatiform swellings of the same in the border of the epididj-mis; /, generative gland, now testis. and the stationary condition or disappearance of the other of these ducts. From this point,