[122] OVUM. Nelson,* a peculiar softening of the ova, which may be caused by the rapid imbibition of fluid at the time the changes above mentioned are taking place, renders them peculiarly liable to be impressed by the spermatic corpuscles at Fig. 87*. Development of ova in Mermis albicans, belonging to the Gordiacei. (From Meissner.') a. Germ-cells from tlie upper or ccecal end of the ovarian tube, their nuclei undergoing subdivision. b. Various stages of farther multiplication of the internal cells, which in the more advanced are seen to approach the surface of the original cell, and to cause the bulging of its membrane by the enlarge- ment of the internal cells, which last constitute the primitive ova. * Loc. cit., p. 576. c. §• d. Groups of primitive ova thus formed; some of them much more developed than others, present- ing internally the nucleated germinal vesicles and yolk)granules and attached in pediculated capsules, which are formed by the extension of the membrane of the primary germ cells. e. A group of these ova more advanced; the opaque granular yolk increased in quantity so as to obscure in part the germinal vesicles; the pedicles much narrowed and somewhat elongated; the ex^ ternal ova are nearly mature; those in the centre remain abortive. /. Two similar ova now ripe, a part of one of them is artificially burst, showing the escape of the yolk granules and germinal vesicle with a double macula. The remains of the pedicles when detached from the central mass constitute, according to Meissner, the micropyle aperture. this period; and Nelson is of opinion that these corpuscles even penetrate completely into the yolk-substance, and ultimately com- bine with it. Little doubt can be entertained that a combination of the spermatic and vitel- line elements in some manner takes place at this time, whether by the direct interpene- tration after the mode described by Nelson, some may be inclined to doubt; but at all events the spermatozoa act immediately on the vitelline substance at this stage of the progress of the ovum. * As the ovum descends in the next part of the tube or uterus, the external membrane becomes more dense, additional layers are deposited upon it, and at last it acquires more * Professor BischofF has, in his recently published tract " Wiederlegung des von Dr. Keber bei den Naiaden und Dr. Nelson bei den Ascariden behaupte- ten Eindringens der Spermatozoiden in das Ei," &c, Giessen, 4to., 1854, called in question the accuracy of Nelson's observations, and asserted that Nelson's spermatozoa are only epithelial particles belonging to the female passages. In a subsequently pub- lished paper, entitled, " Bestatigung des von Dr. Newport bei den Batrachiern und Dr. Barry bei den Kaninchen behaupteten Eindringens der Sper- matozoiden in das Ei, Giessen, 25th March, 1854," although Bischoff has seen reason to alter his pre- vious views as to the phenomena of fecundation in the Ascaris mystax, he still in that paper, and in a special memoir on the subject, published in the Zeitsch. fur Wissensch. Zool., 1854, vol. vi. p. 377. adheres to the view that the bodies which I, along with Nelson and Meissner, regard as spermatozoa are no more than epithelial cells. I have elsewhere shown that this view is altogether untenable, and that no doubt can now prevail as to the corpuscles in question being the product of development from the spermatic cells of the male Ascaris, and as to the possibility of their direct action on the ova within the female previous to the formation of the vitelline membrane. Meissner has also given the most satisfactory evidence on the same point in his memoir on the penetration of the sperma- tozoa into the ova of animals, contained in the same volume of the last quoted work, though this author takes a different view from Nelson and my- self as to the manner in which the spermatozoa are admitted into the ovum in Ascaris mystax, believing in the existence of a vitelline membrane and micro- pyle, in the same manner as in Mermis and other Gordiacei, which he has so well described. With regard to this view as applied to the Ascaris mystax, Bischoff's observations, Nelson's, and my own, give me the greatest confidence in asserting that there is at first ro vitelline membrane in this animal at the time when the ova first meet with the spermatic corpuscles.