SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 430 portion, which are continued forwards along the sides of the rectum, to form the inferior hypogastric plexuses. 8. Inferior Hypogastric Plexuses. — These consist of a right and left plexus, formed in the manner just mentioned: they contain several small ganglia. Filaments are likewise sent to them from the sacral ganglia, as well as from two or three of the sacral nerves. These plexuses are situated upon the sides of the rectum, the plexuses of opposite sides being united by cross branches. From the plexus proceed the following branches, (a) Some hemorrhoidal branches : these are termed the inferior haemorrhoidal nerves ; they are very delicate and unite with the superior hemor- rhoidal branches derived from the inferior mesenteric plexus, and go to supply the rec- tum. (6) Vesical plexus . The nerves proceed- ing to this plexus come from the lower and anterior portion of the inferior hypogastric plexus, and pass to the sides and lower part of the bladder. The nerves are most numerous near the neck of the organ, and have several minute ganglia developed upon them. From the neck numerous branches pass upwards on the sides of the bladder, and are chiefly dis- tributed to its muscular coats; a few, however, may be traced through the muscular to the mucous coat. From the vesical plexus, fila- ments are given off which pass to the vesiculae seminales, around which they form a plexus; others pass to the vas deferens and ramify around it, communicating on the spermatic cord with the nerves of the spermatic plexus, while a third portion passes to the prostate gland. The branches which pass to the latter are of considerable size, and form connections with the plexus around the vesicula; seminales. Some of the branches sink into the substance of the gland, others are continued forwards to the erectile tissue of the penis, constituting the so-called cavernous nerves, or cavernous plexus. From these branches are distributed to the membranous portion of the urethra. They then continue forwards, passing beneath the arch of the pubis to the root of the penis. By Midler*, they are divided into nervi caver- nosi minores, and nervus cavernosus major. The former penetrate the cms of the corpus cavernosus penis, and spread out upon the cells of the erectile tissue : the latter runs along the dorsum of the penis between the dorsal artery and vein. About the middle of the penis it divides into a number of branches and forms communications with the dorsal branch of the pudic nerve : some of the branches accompany the dorsal vessels and unite with those of the opposite side; the greater portion, however, penetrate the corpus cavernosum and are distributed to its sub- stance. 9. Uterine Plexus.—The nerves destined for the supply of the uterus are derived from the upper and posterior part of the inferior hypo- gastric plexus, and also from the superior * Ueber die organischen Nerven der erectilen miinnlichen Geschlechts-organe. Berlin, 1836. plexus of the same name. They pass between the folds of the broad ligament in company with the uterine vessels ; before reaehing the uterus, however, the greater portion of them separate from the vessels, and are distributed to the substance of the neck and body of the organ. The portion derived from the superior hypogastric plexus appears to be chiefly dis- tributed to the fundus of the organ: a fila- ment also passes, according to Dr. Beck*, from the ovarian artery to the fundus of the uterus. Besides the branches above mentioned there are others, according to Dr. Beck, derived also from the hypogastric plexus, which assume a plexiform arrange- ment around the vessels, and are characterised by the presence of several minute ganglia. Fig. 280. Small ganglion from the posterior wall of the cervix of an impregnated uterus of the Cow. Minute Anatomy. — The branches of the sympathetic nerve present to the naked eye certain characters which, more or less, dis- tinguish them from the proper cerebro-spinal nerves. They have a dull greyish-white ap- pearance, different from the white shining aspect which characterises the nerves belong- ing to the other class. This appearance is better marked in some parts of the nerve than in others, and is best seen in the branches which accompany the blood-vessels. By Valentin this gray appearance of the sym- pathetic nerves was attributed to the presence of the ganglionic corpuscles : this, however, as Remak observed, cannot be the case, inas- * On the Nerves of the Uterus. Phil. Trans. 1846.