REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 216 or hermaphrodite, according to the organs which they contain. The male concepta- cles present in their interior an arrangement of branched filaments, or hair-like organs, which, taking their origin from the surrounding cellular tissue, converge towards the pore. At the summits of these filaments, the so- called antheridia are supported, which consist of little ovoid transparent vesicles. They contain, in their early condition, a granular protoplasmic material, but as they approach maturity, the so-called antherozoids make their appearance. These last are hyaline corpuscles, not exceeding about s „'0 0 of an inch in their longest dimension. Each con- tains a granule of a greyish or reddish orange colour, from which the organs of locomotion emanate. The form of the zoids differs ac- cording to thegenus. InFucus, they are bottle- shaped, and each possesses a pair of cilia, one of which, the shortest, is directed forwards from the neck, while the longest emanates from the coloured point and is pointed back- wards. In Halidrys, the zoid is ovoid or spherical, and the longest cilium is directed forwards. In Fucus and several other genera, the transparent vesicle in which the zoids are immediately contained, is itself enclosed in a second of similar form. At the period of maturity this last gives way at its apex: the internal sack is expelled, and at once finds its way towards the external opening. In the meantime its delicate membrane disap- pears, and the liberated zoids commence their active motions. 9. Although the antherozoids of the Fu- coideae differ from the zoospores of the other olive-coloured Algae, in their not possessing the power of germination, there are yet remarkable points of correspondence between them, in their form, structure, and mode of develop- ment. Both are composed of a hyaline pro- toplasma, and the position of the coloured granule, as well as the arrangement of the cilia, corresponds. They differ, in the first place, in size, and secondly, in respect of the chloro- phylle granules, which are present in the zo- ospore, but absent in the antherozoid. As regards the question of their functional sig- nification, they may be considered, on the one hand, as the elements of a male secretion, and the organs in which they are contained, as antheridia ; on the other, we may look upon them as the formal representatives of structures destined in other families to the performance of functions of which they are themselves incapable. In favour of the first of these views we have no direct evi- dence, and must trust entirely to analogy. We know that in Cutleria and its allies, the zoospores display the power of germi- nating without the slightest reference to the presence or absence of the secretion of the supposed male organ. Further, if, as all obser- vations which have been hitherto made, tend to prove, the zoospores of all the green Algae, and of so many of the olive-coloured, normally germinate under the condition of the constant non-existence of such organs, it is difficult to see why an exception should be made in favour of those of other families in which they are present. As regards the Fucoideae, we have certainly no evidence whatever that the antheridia perform any function, either more or less important in the reproductive process. 10. In the family of Vaucheriaeeae, the zoo- sporous reproduction is remarkably modified by the substitution of a single multiple zoospore, of large size, for a number of smaller ones. The frond of Vaucheria consists of a branched tube, and much resembles in general form, that of the Bryopsideae, from which the Vau- cheriae in their vegetative condition differ only in respect of the arrangement of the chloro- phylle. The commencement of the formation of zoospores is announced by the condensa- tion of the green protoplasma in the rounded terminations of the branches of the plant. This condensation is accompanied with an enlargement of the cylindrical filament, which soon appears club-shaped, and is completely occupied by a confused and opaque dark-green mass. Shortly afterwards a septum is formed, which limits the terminal portion of the tube. Within the separate cavity thus formed, the mass of protoplasma becomes further con- densed ; its margin being surrounded by a clear space which intervenes between its external sur- face and the tube membrane. This body, which possesses an oval form, is the future zoospore. No sooner is it completely developed than the membrane which encloses it gives way at the apex, and it begins to insinuate itself through the resulting narrow opening. Having com- pletely freed itself, it forthwith commences an active progressive motion, which is accom- panied by a circumvolution round its axis. The zoospore at this period possesses no dis- tinct or consistent investing membrane, as is evident from the fact, that if, during its escape, it divides accidentally into two—a circum- stance which not unfrequently happens, from the relative narrowness of the opening through which it has to pass—each part is complete in itself and capable of germination. Its whole surface is covered with vibratile cilia, which are apparently connected with an epithelium- like structure. In this arrangement there seems to be an indication of a tendency to a division into smaller particles, by the melting together of a number of which the whole may be conceived to be formed. Like all zo- ospores its period of active motion is short; it soon becomes stationary and begins to germi- nate.* The zoospores of Vaucheria seem to correspond closely with the motionless spores of the true Dictyotacea? (Dictyota, Padina, &c), as well as with those of the Fucaceas. In the case of the latter, the accuracy with which their structure and germination have been studied, has enabled us to follow out the analogy more closely. In speaking of the an- * See Thuret, Ann. des Sc. Nat. 2e S. xix. 269; Vaucher, Hist, des Conferves d'Eau douce, p. 246; Karsten, Die Fortpflanzung der Conferva fontinalia, Bot. Zeit. 5 Stuck, 1852.