UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 582 Fig. 396. Part of the thick laminated wall of an ovarian ci/st, covered ott its inner surface with pyriform vesicles. {After Paget.) The Contents of Ovarian Cysts*—Jfo cystic formations in any part of the body present such a variety of contents as those which are found in the ovary. These vary in every de- gree of consistence, from the thinnest fluids to the hardest substances, such as teeth and bones. They may be subdivided according to their densities and different degrees of organi- sation. And first may be considered :— The Fluid Contents of Cysts.—The thinnest fluids are usually obtained from unilocular cysts, which have not been previously tapped. The fluid so procured is commonly of a pale straw colour, and resembles in general charac- ter the ordinary fluid of ascites. It is to these cases that the term " encysted ovarian dropsy" is most commonly applied. The contents of niultilocular cysts are often less fluent, presenting every variety of consistence from a thin gelatinous fluid to one of the density of white of egg, of honey, of thin size, or of soft glue. In the latter cases the tenacity of the fluid is often so great that it may be drawn out into long strings, and it is only in this way that it can be extracted through the canula. All these varieties, which commonly retain more or less transparency, may be found enclosed in difFerent cysts within one common investment. In other cases the contents, while retaining their fluidity, are rendered turbid or are thick- ened by the admixture of pus or of blood in various degrees. Thus are produced the yellow and green hues as well as the red, reddish-brown, and dark coffee-ground colours which these fluids often present; the turbid yellow and green colours being generally caused by the presence of pus, the bright red by the admixture of recent blood, and the dark brown or coffee-ground hue sometimes by the addition of blood which has been effused long enough to have undergone putre- faction, although the brown colour is not al- ways due to this cause. Scales of cholesterine are also found intermixed with those fluids, and in the smaller cysts especially, as already stated, recent blood or the blood clot under- going fibrillation, or breaking down by putre- faction, may be frequently noticed. The repeated withdrawal of the contents of ovarian cysts affords the opportunity of ob- serving that the fluid contained in the same sac often undergoes a materia) change in its composition. Thus, that which is obtained by a first tapping is often of the thin straw-co- loured variety, whilst that which results from subsequent operations has more frequently the turbid muddy or coffee-ground character last described. This can be explained in two ways : the first, by observing that in niultilocular cases there is sometimes a natural communication between the walls of the containing and the contained cysts, or an artificial communication may be established by spontaneous rupture, or by the trocar penetrating through two cysts, and thus the smaller will act as tribu- taries to the larger sac, and ponr their varied contents into it; or secondly, inflammation or ulceration may be set up in the walls of a cyst which has been punctured, or the intro- duction of air, or of blood flowing into the cyst from vessels wounded during the opera- tion may so modify the contents as to account for those successive alterations in the fluid which are very commonly observed. In the case of cysts containing pus, rough patches, apparently of ulceration, have been observed upon their internal walls. Quantity of Fluids and Rate of Effusion.— The structure and situation of the ovary per- mit this organ to suffer a degree of distension which is rarely or never equalled in other parts. Probably the only limit to the increase in size of the morbid ovary, after it has risen out of the pelvis into the abdomen, is occa- sioned by the pressure which the spine, dia- phragm, and abdominal walls exercise upon the cyst ; for the parietes of an ovarian cyst appear in most cases to possess an unlimited capability of multiplying the fibrous element of which they are principally composed, whilst the power of rapidly replacing the fluid after their contents have been drawn off) proves both the unrestricted capability of secretion inherent in the cyst walls, and at the same time the influence which pressure exerts in keeping that secretion for a time within cer- tain limits. Numerous examples might be quoted in illustration of the immense power of growth and secretion of fluid possessed by ovarian cysts. Imhoff* records a case in which the right ovary contained 42 lbs. of fluid. Duretf met with 50 pints of water in * Acta Helvetica, vol. i., App. p. 1. f Mem. de l'Aead. de Chir. t. ii. p. 457.