TEGUMENTRAY ORGANS. 501 K K 3 areolar tissue, and receive twigs from the vessels in their neighbourhood. In the other Mammalia, the general structure of the sudoriparous glands is as in man. In the sheep, according to Gurlt,they present the same coiled arrangement, while in the ox and dog they are straight and simple. In the ox they have rounded, d.lated extremities, and are everywhere similar in shape and size. On the hairy parts of the body of the dog, they are small simple coeca, which are very difficult to discover ; while on the ball of the foot of this animal they are very large and resemble those of man. Very large sudoriparous glands have likewise been observed upon the horse's prepuce. Scales of fishes. — In the Ganoid fishes Ac- cvpenser and Polypterus the substance of the scales is composed of ordinary bone whose superficial layer is only denser than the rest, and exhibits a local developement of fine branching tubuli; but in other fishes, two, if not three, distinct layers are usually distin- guishable in the scales. In many Plagiostomes, for instance, the placoid scales have the same composition as the teeth, consisting of a superficial layer of nearly structureless dense " enamel," or as Prof. Williamson more conveniently terms it, " Ganoin," while the deeper substance is composed of a tissue in every respect similar to dentine, whose innermost portion in some cases passes into true bone, — an addition which might be compared to that of the cement in the teeth. Leydig, indeed, has shown that the resemblances between the scales and the teeth of Placoid fish extend even to their mode of developement. If the pulp contained in the central cavity of the spine-like scale of a Rata clavata be pulled out, globular calcareous masses of io^o °f an inch and upwards in diameter, and either solitary or adhering together in masses, will be found to be attached to its surface. " These globules are exactly analogous to the dentine globules described by Czermak, which in human teeth afford the formative material for the matrix of the dentine. What, however, ap- peared to me especially worthy of notice was the circumstance, that the most distinct and beautifully branched canals, having exactly the same appearance as those in the substance of the spine, were already visible in these isolated calcareous bodies, and on carefully examining the fine processes of the canals, no doubt could exist that they were only interspaces or gaps. On carefully adjusting the focus, in fact, it was obvious that one of these large calcareous globules is itself only an agglomeration of many smaller globules, and it could be observed that the gaps left between the latter became the fine processes of the tubules. From these facts, I believe that the correct mode of conceiving the growth of the substance of the spine is, to suppose that the calcareous matter is excreted from the vessels of the pulp, and then in all probability combined with organic matter, runs into smaller masses ; these unite together into larger ones, and become applied to the inner surface of the central cavity, coalescing, and thus adding to the thickness of the spine. Between the calcareous globules, however, canalicular gaps or tubules remain, which form a connected network and communicate with those branched cavities which already exist in the spine. The scales of the Sharks and the dermal spines of the Rays, then, (and I would draw particular attention to this result,) are per- fectly identical in structure with the teeth, • even to the absence of nerves in the pulp, and must be united in the same structural group. I have already (On the Skin of Fresh- water Fishes, Zeitschrift fiir Wiss. Zool. B. iii. II. 4.) pointed out the close affinity be- tween the scales of a number of osseous fishes and their teeth: and scales likewise present globules of calcareous matter, which become fused together to form the homo- geneous substance of the scale. A process, corresponding with that which occurs at the surface of the pulp in the teeth and cutaneous spines, here takes place from the surface of the sac of the scale (Schuppentasche). The scales of osseous fishes, the spines of the Rays, and the scales of the Sharks, therefore, all belong to the series of dental structures, which in no respect interferes with the en- trance of true bony tissue (like the "cement" in the higher animals) into their composition, as we find to be the case in the scales of the Ganoids (Midler), and in the truly bony semi- canals which are attached to the scales of the lateral lines of many fishes." * For the det ails of the various modes in which Ganoin, true osseous tissue, and those va- rieties of tubular, more or less dentine-like tissues, to which Prof. Williamson has given the names of " Lepidine and Kosmine," are combined together in the scales of Ganoid and Placoid fish, I must refer to that gentle- man's memoirs, already so often cited. In the Ctenoid and Cycloid fishes there is a superficial " Ganoin " layer, composed of numerous thin structureless calcified lamina?, which are frequently thrown into folds, papilla? or spines. The deeper substance of the scale is composed of a series of layers of a mem- branous substance, each layer being composed of parallel fibres which take a different direc- tion from those of the superficial and subse- quent layers, so that the fibres of alternate layers cross diagonally. No endoplasts or cells are ever distinguishable among the fibres. In the deepest part of the scale these layers are entirely membranous; but in passing to- wards the surface, minute lenticular masses of calcareous matter make their appearance in the membranous substance. As Prof. Williamson justly states, these lenticular bodies are not developed between the membranous fibres and lamella;, but in them : " they com- mence as a small calcareous atom, and in* * Leydig: Roclien und Haie, 1852,