[98] OVUM. Salamandrina in regard to the structure and formation of their ova. Osseous Fishes.—The ovarian ova of Os- seous Fishes, while they bear a general resem- blance to those of Vertebrata, among which they come nearest to those of Batrachia, are distinguished by several marked peculiarities. They are of middle size, and possess a strong external covering formed within the ovary. The yolk-substance contains several kinds of elements ; and the germinal vesicle is of con- siderable size. The external membrane is thick, strong, and elastic, and of a peculiar porous structure. The yolk-substance con- tains a large quantity of clear fluid, in which the albuminous granules and yolk corpuscles and the oil globules are suspended, the latter usually of large size and few in number; the germinal layer or disc is limited to a part of the yolk, varying in size from about a sixth to a half of the circumference, and the process of segmentation in this part after fecundation is consequently more limited than in Mam- F/g. 66 *. Oeum of the Gasternsteus at the time of impregnation. {From Ransom.) A. An ovum of the Stickleback eight or ten minutes after impregnation, showing the clear re- spirator}' space formed immediately upon the access of spermatozoa between the external membrane and the surface of the yolk. Towards the upper part of the figure the situation of the micropyle is indicated by the small projections in the external membrane; towards the same or upper part of the yolk the germinal disc or layer is easily distinguished from the clearer part of the yolk; and in the middle a few large coloured oil globules. b. The same ovum about three minutes after im- pregnation, showing somewhat in profile the funnel of the micropyle descending into a depression on the upper surface of the germinal part of the egg. In consequence of impregnation, however, the funnel of the micropyle has begun to rise out of the hollow, and the respiratory space to be formed by the separation of the external membrane from the sur- face of the yolk. malia and most Batrachia; but more extended than in birds or scaly reptiles. The germinal vesicle contains subdivided or multiple ma- culae. I now proceed to give a few details with respect to these several parts of the ovum. The yolk-mass or yolk-substance consists, in the more mature ovarian ova, of three parts : viz,, the clear fluid, which is in great abun- dance and occupies chiefly the centre and the lower part of the ovum; the superficial layer of fine granules, with the vesicular corpuscles; and the large oily globules, which from their less specific gravity are usually situated to- wards the surface and on the upper side. In a number of fishes the clear fluid, which has an acid reaction, becomes immediately turbid or quite thick by the deposit ofgranular substance when water is added to it. This change is very apparent in the ova of the trout or sal- mon, which, when placed in water, retain their natural clearness and colour so long only as the coverings are entire ; but immediately on their being divided so as to allow of the action of water on the contents, the wholey oik is sudden- ly precipitated as a thick and somewhat tena- cious granular mass. The albuminous matter which surrounds ova that have been spawned has an alkaline reaction. It is an interesting fact, that in these ova, when imbibition of water takes place as a consequence of fecun- dation, no precipitate follows ; but that in unfecundated ova left for some time in the same circumstances without fecundation, though unbroken, turbidity ensues; so that by the diiference of internal appearance the fertile ova soon come to be easily distin- guished from those which have not been fe- cundated.* The solid elements of the yolk- substance appear to be in general of three kinds for some time before the ovum has arrived at maturity : viz., 1st, a quantity of small granules comparable to the granular yolk-substance of the primitive ovum ; 2nd, collections of clearer vesicles and globules interspersed with the first, and in general partly mixed with them and partly situated in a deeper layer; and, 3rd, the large oil glo- bules, These last are usually somewhat co- loured ; they are comparatively large, and in some fishes are very few in number, and even reduced at last to only one, which is then of proportionally large size. In all fishes, the number of oil globules appears from the observations of Retzius gradually to diminish as the ova approach maturity.f The large oil globules float quite freely in the fluid of the yolk; so that from their greater lightness they always rise towards the side of the ovum which is turned uppermost; but the other elements of the yolk-substance, and especially the small granules of the germ- disc, come in the mature ovarian ovum to occupy one side of the yolk, and, as they form a coherent layer, do not move readily from this place. The smaller granular par- * See a paper by Dr. Davy in the Proceed, of Roy. Soc. of Lond. 1852, p. 149. ■f- See Ketzius in Muller's Archiv. for 1855, p. 34.