229 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). Q 3 represented in fig. 150. The central portion of the disc is lined by an ascophorous mem- brane. The overhanging marginal fold still exhibits the filaments bearing spermatia, which characterised the earlier condition of the receptacle. Our authors are inclined to admit that the spermatia are to be considered as a male product, and the whole organ as analo- gous to a hermaphrodite inflorescence. The relative positions of the spermatia and thecal seem admirably adapted to insure their con- tact with each other. 44. We now pass to the Lichens, with re- spect to which the greater part of our informa- tion is again owing to the researches of MM. Tulasne.* In these plants, as in the Fungi, the germination of the spore consists in the emission of a hollow filament from some part of its surface. This filament which is simply an extension of the spore-membrane, branches repeatedly and spreads over the surface, on which the spore has been sown ; at the same time it divides by numerous septa, which occur at irregular intervals. By the intertwining of the resulting ramifications, a stroma is formed, to which the term hypo- thallus is applied, and which constitutes the vegetative system of the future lichen. So far the development is the same as the Fungi. At a longer or shorter period after the forma- tion of the hypothallus, we begin to observe upon its surface a whitish layer of spheroidal cellules, intimately united with each other, as well as with the filaments from which they take their origin. This layer serves as the groundwork for a second formation of glo- bular cells. These are distinguished from their predecessors, as well by the regularity of their form, as by the granules of chlorophylle which they contain. They are called gonidia, and are peculiar to the Lichens, among which their occurrence is almost constant. 45. Such is the origin of the thallus, which, although, at first sight, it appears to consti- tute the whole plant, forms only a part, and that not the most essential part of its vege- tative system. In the Verrucariae, the most simply organised Lichens with which we are acquainted, it does not attain to any higher development than that above described. The receptacles (apothecia), which closely resemble those of a Sphceria, are formed upon the surface of the hypothallus, which can only be distinguished from the stroma of the Fungus by the presence of scattered col- lections of gonidia. In the more complicated foliaceous Lichens, such as Parmelia, the mature thallus is formed of two kinds of tissues, the medullary and the cortical. The cortical tissue forms two layers — an inferior and superior — and consists of thick-wallod cells intimately adherent to each other, and resembling those of analogous structure, which so often form the peridia of the higher * Mem. pour servir a l'Histoire organographique et physiologique des Lichens, Ann. des Sc Nat. 3«ie S. t. xvii. pp. 5. and 173. Fungi. From the surface of the inferior layer are given off numerous laminar rooi-like Fig. 151. Vertical section of the apothecium of a Lichen {Par- melia aipolin) and of the subjacent tissue of the thallus, 200 diam. a, Lamina proligera, consisting of theca; and para- physes; 0, tissue of thick-walled cells continuous with the cortical tissue of the thallus. Subjacent to this, but separated by an irregular line of gonidia, is the medullary filamentous layer. appendages. The medullary substance con- sists of a filamentous central layer, the elements of which resemble those of the hypothallus, and are directly continuous with them ; on either side of this layer, between it and the cortex, or rather embedded in its substance, are the gonidia, which form a green tissue, distinguishable by the naked eye. To these a special function is assigned, which shall be noticed at the conclusion of the article under the head of Gemmation. 46. We have next to describe the recepta- cles, within or upon which the spores or spore- like organs (spermatia and stylospores) are produced. Of these there are three varieties, to which the terms apothecia, spcrn/ogonia?, and pi/cnidcs. have been applied. The most common form of the apothecium is that of a disc, which may be plane, convex or cup- shaped. This form is that which charac- terises the gymnocarpous Lichens. In the Angiocarpea?, the organ is closed upwards, its superior surface becoming internal, so as to form a conceptacle like that of the Pyreno- mycetes, the form of which is subject to considerable variation. In either case, it is composed of two layers, the inferior or ex- ternal, being formed of thick-walled cells which are soldered together, and resemble those of the epidermal layers of the thallus. The superior or internal layer is called the lamina proligera. It is formed of two kinds