415 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. membrane swollen, soft and relaxed; — a change which is generally due to the in- terstitial effusion of a large quantity of bloody serum. A similar fluid is also poured out into the interior of the organ in variable quantity; and its effusion is generally attended with the detachment of the sloughs previously caused by the direct action of the poison. The ex- sudation also often distends the submucous areolar tissue, so as to separate the muscular and mucous tunics from each other. Some- times the former of these two tunics is only rendered paler and more yielding than na- tural. But in other cases, the whole parietes of the organ ultimately become converted into a rotten, brown, or reddish mass, in which scarcely any structure is distinguish- able. The details of those changes by which the moderately inflamed gastric membrane returns to a healthier state, are equally va- riable with the preceding. The separation of one or more flat sloughs lays bare what may be regarded as an ulcerated surface. The establishment of suppuration on tin's surface precedes the formation of the reparative tissue. When fully developed the latter substance exhibits the ordinary fibrous structure of ci- catrix. And since the process of exsudation previously extended to some little distance from the ulcer, the margin of the cica- trix blends gradually with the surrounding healthy mucous membrane ; while its base generally exhibits similar gradations of structure with the subjacent tissues. The subsequent contraction of the new tissue may materially alter the shape of the organ, and diminish its size. Indeed, where there has been much loss of substance at one point, it may even cause a more or less complete ob- struction or occlusion of its cavity. In dysentery, although the morbid changes appear to begin in the follicles, and often predominate here, still the relation of these structures to the process is far less intimate and specific than in typhoid fever. The dysenteric state may rather be regarded as an intense in- flammation of the whole of the mucous mem- brane; which engages these closed sacs with a rapidity and severity that seem to be not more than proportionate to their vascularity, and to the facilities which, as it were, their very construction offers to the exsudative process.* The morbid appearances chiefly affect the large intestine; and generally exhibit an in- crease in severity from the ceecum towards the anus. In a subordinate degree, however, they not unfrequently involve the adjoining segment of the ileum. The process begins as an enlargement of the solitary follicles of particular parts of the bowel, which is quickly followed by appear- ances of inflammation in the adjacent mucous membrane. Red, swollen, and injected streaks are seen occupying the most projecting parts of some of the transverse folds of the bowel. * See p. 357. et seq. And on examining these streaks, we find that the epithelium is here and there raised from the subjacent tissues; either as a grayish flake, or as a semi-transparent vesication enclosing serum. Beneath this cell-growth is the raw and denuded mucous membrane; which is softened, reddened, and infiltrated (especially in its sub- mucous areolar tissue) with a bloody serum, that easily exsudes on making pressure. The above change soon extends, from these isolated streaks, to larger portions of the mu- cous surface ; so as to involve, not only the projecting folds of the bowel, but also their intervening depressions. The detached epi- thelium, which has a dirty gray colour, be- comes mixed with the subjacent reddish exsudation. The latter is generally thick and glutinous: but is sometimes of a denser and more croupy consistence; which permits it to be detached and expelled as a more or less perfect cast of the inflamed segment of the bowel. The mucous membrane itself acquires a pale, or dirty-red, or even somewhat yellow- ish, colour; as well as an increased thickness, and a pulpy gelatinous consistence. The sub- mucous areolar tissue beneath it also becomes infiltrated with an exsudation that has the characters of bloody serum ; its enlarged fol- licles ulcerate or rupture ; and its interstices are here and there raised by effusion into protuberances, which give a mammillated aspect to the free inner surface of the intes- tine. In extreme cases, these projections multiply, enlarge, become confluent, and thus proportionally thicken the whole texture. These changes are usually accompanied by a more or less considerable dilatation of the intestine; the cavity of which contains, in addition to a large quantity of gases, a mixture of faeces, blood, epithelium, and lymph, in va- riable proportions. An increase in the intensity of the above ap- pearances rapidly converts the inflamed mem- brane into a sloughy or mortified mass. Prior to this event, it becomes dark red, brown, or almost black, from congestion and extravasa- tion of blood. Where less ecchymosis is ori- ginally present, and the blood poured out undergoes alterations after its effusion, it fre- quently offers a dirty gray or almost greenish colour. Subsequently to the separation or dissolution of the sloughy membrane, the de- nuded submucous tissue may be seen occupied by black masses of altered and coagulated blood, and by more or fewer of the vascular trunks formerly distributed to the destroyed tissues. And at this stage of the process, if not pre- viously, the adjacent muscular and peritoneal coats exhibit every evidence of their sharing in the disease. The former becomes infiltrated with blood, or serum, and of a dark, gray, or ash-coloured hue. While the peritoneum loses its smooth and shining appearance, ac- quires a dirty reddish colour and an injected state of its vessels, and often has its surface visibly occupied by a more or less purulent or sero-purulent exsudation. In extreme cases, these changes bring about an adhesion of the diseased bowel to neighbouring segments of