667 UTERUS —(Functions). of ova has commenced.* It continues to be performed as long as the process of ovulation is continued ; but when the latter ceases, and the ovaries have become shrunken, their tissues attenuated and wasted, and Graafian follicles can be no longer distinguished, menstruation ceases to be performed. These facts show that menstruation and ovulation proceed pari passu ; but they do not alone prove that the one function is dependent upon the other. If, however, both ovaries are congenitally deficient, no attempt at menstruation is ever observed; while, on the other hand, in cases where the ovaries are present but the uterus is deficient, puberty becomes established in due course, and then a regularly recurring menstrual molimen may be observed, although for the want of the uterus this function can- not be carried out. See note §. Or if, under ordinary circumstances, after the regular establishment of menstruation, both ovaries become extensively diseased, or both are removed by operationf, menstruation is from that moment permanently suspended. Hence it appears that the presence of the ovary in a healthy state is essential to men- struation. But something more also is needed ; for the ovaries may be present and healthy, yet if they cease for a time to mature or emit ova, as for example during pregnancy and lactation, when they are passive j, then, so long as those processes endure, menstruation is also com- monly suspended, but returns after the com- pletion of one or both of them. A series of facts so consistent appears to admit of but one interpretation : namely, that a menstruating condition of the uterus bears a direct relation to the active operations of the ovaries, and that this function is only per- formed under circumstances which render pregnancy possible so far as the ovaries are concerned ; but if the conditions are such that impregnation cannot take place, then the ute- rus, although it may be healthy, does not menstruate. But, in addition to this general relationship between menstruation and ovulation, it is ne- cessary to determine further if any direct cor- respondence exists between each separate act of menstruation and the maturation or dis- charge of one or more ova from the ovary, so that these two acts shall be coincidentally performed. The following evidence supports this view. The ovaries at the menstrual periods are not unfrequently the seat of pain and tender- ness, indicating some unusual activity of this part. This is most remarkable in the rare case of hernia of the ovary.§ * The views of Dr. Ritchie in dissent from this statement have been already noticed, p 572. f See Mi-. Pott's case, p. 573. { Negriers, loc. cit. § In a case of this kind recorded by Dr. Oldham (Proceedings of the Roy. Soc. vol. viii. p. 377.), both ovaries had descended through the inguinal canals, and were permanently lodged in the upper part of the external labia. At intervals of about three In women who have died during a men- strual period the ovaries have been frequently observed to present unmistakable signs of the recent rupture of one or more Graafian fol- licles. Some examples of this fact have been already given. In one case the ovum itself was found in the Fallopian tube (p. 567.).* Conception is supposed to take place most frequently within a few days after a menstrual period, and therefore during the time which an ovum, if it were emitted from the ovary during menstruation, would occupy in passing- down the Fallopian tube and perhaps in ar- riving at the uterus. Menstruation corresponds in many particu- lars with the oestrus, or rut, in the mammalia, and in them it is only during the cestrus that ova are emitted from the ovaries, and that con- ception can take place. The foregoing facts constitute evidence bearing upon two distinct points. The first series proving that a menstruating condition of the uterus is maintained only so long as the ovaries continue in the active performance of their function of preparing anil ripening ova. The second series affording a certain amount of presumptive evidence, that each separate act of menstruation is connected with or is dependent upon a corresponding act of maturation, and perhaps of spontaneous emission of one or more ova from the ovaries. The accuracy of the first conclusion will probably not be questioned ; but if the second point is to be regarded, as at present, more than an hypothesis having many facts and probabilities for its support; if, as M. Pouchet believes, we are justified in considering as established laws of generation that in man ova are emitted from the ovary at fixed epochs and at no other times, and that these occa- weeks one or both ovaries were observed to become painful and tumid, the swelling augmented for four days, remained stationary for three days, and then gradually declined ; the whole process occupying generally from ten to twelve days. It happened, unfortunately, that in this case the uterus and va- gina were deficient, so that menstruation could not take place; but the case in one respect is the more interesting on that account, for notwithstanding the absence of the uterus, all the external signs of pu- berty were present, and the evidence of a periodical activity and excitement of the ovaries, and of a menstrual molimen affecting the organs which were not malformed, were here unmistakable. These circumstances forcibly call to mind the painful condition of the ovaries which, in a similar case, induced Mr. Pott to extirpate those organs. * Upon the connection between the discharge of ova from the ovaries, and the phenomena of heat and menstruation, the following should be con- sulted, viz.: — E. Home, Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. iv., and Phil. Trans. 1817 and 1819; Power, Essays on the Female Economy, 1821; 7?. Lee, Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, art. Ovary, 1834 ; Gendrin, Traite" Philosophique de Me"decine Pratique, t. i. 1839; W. Jones, Practical Observations on Diseases of Women, 1839 ; Paterson, Edinb, Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. liii; Girdwond, Lancet, 1842-43; in addition to the works of Bis- clioff, Raciborski, Neprier, Coste, and Povchet, al- ready quoted under the title Ovary, p. 568., where will be found a full account of the process of ovula- tion.