RESPIRATION. 288 of the bod}' receives blood directly from the cardiac ventricle. The carotids, the homo- logues of the subclavian, the hyo-opercular and orbito-nasal arteries proceed from the abdominal aorta at the point of confluence of the branchial veins. In these vessels, there- fore, the blood is arterialised, while its move- ment is impulsatile or venous. The pro- pulsive agents, under the form of diminutive lymphatic hearts, which Dr. M. Hall*, M. Fohmanf, and J. MiillerJ have shown to guard the several points of communication between the absorbent and venous systems, probably renders as great assistance in cir- culating the contents of the latter as those of the former orders of vessels. In the white- bait {Clupea alba of Yarrell) these micro- scopic hearts can be most perfectly observed. From a consideration of the preceding traits distinctive of the circulation of fishes, it will be afterwards shown that the laws of aquatic respiration are destined to receive new eluci- dation. Minute Circulation of the Brancliia?. — The branchial arteries proceed on either side, symmetrically, from the aorta, and travel through a groove along the convex border of the branchial arches, the veins lying to the outside of the artery, that is, next to the pec- tinated fringes of the gills. The cartilage system of the arches and that of the penknife- shaped processes (bearing the ultimate bron- chial leaflets) are quite distinct and uncon- nected save by fibrous structure. It is in the in- tervals between these solid parts that the trunks of the vessels are disposed. As the pectinated processes (a. Jig. 235.) arise, when biserial, alternately from the arch, the arterial branches leading to them observe a similar arrange- ment. The arteries carrying venous blood invariably run along the thick border or outer margin of each process, the vein occupying the innermost edge. A branchial process, attached at right angles to the convex border of the arch, resembles a penknife, the back of which corresponds with the thick and outermost borders, and the edge of the blade with the thin or acute side of the process. A string carried from base to point would mark the position of the branchial artery convey- ing venous blood : brought back along the acute edge, it would denote the line of the branchial vein bearing arterial blood. In the marsupio-branchii (as the myxine, lam- prey, &c.), in which the gills are fixed and inoperculate, this is also the virtual arrange- ment of the secondary trunks. In the lopho- branchii (sea-horse, pipe-fish, Sec), in which the branchiae are tufted, the disposition of the minute vessels is not dissimilar. The flat surfaces of the penknife-shaped process are gorgeously festooned by f'oliaceous multi- plications of the membrane {fig. 235, b). In the annexed illustration, one of these leaflets has been shown. In length it does not coincide * Essay on the Circulation of the Blood, t Sangader system der Wirbelthiere. 1827. j Elements of Physiology, bv Dr. 13aly, 2nd ed. Lond. 1839. with the width of the process; the secondary trunks, passing through the substance of the Fig. 235. A. Two lamella: or pejiknife-shaped processes of the branchial arch of the Cod-fish. {Original.) b, the vascular respiratory plica?, which extend only three-fourths across the flat surface of the process. They are seated on the internal longi- tudinal half or edge of the penknife-shaped process. cartilage (4) at right angles with the primary (a) are longer than the corresponding se- condary veins on the opposite side of the bladelet; hence the one-sided position of the Fig. 236. Represents a transverse section of one of the penknife- shaped processes {with a single leaf bearing the ultimate respiratory capillaries on each side') ; the web of vessels forms a single lager, and is covered by a pavement epithelium. ( Original.) c denotes the elastic chord which runs along the circumferential border of the leaflet. leaflet (c) bearing the capillary network. These membranous processes, by which the active breathing surface is so extensively multiplied,