STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 3C9 it is related to the ureter, and to the branches of the internal iliac vessels. The middle or arcuate segment (r 2, Jig. 276.) scarcely exceeds 2\ inches in length. It lies on the sacrum and coccyx ; to which it is attached by a loose areolar tissue, that usually encloses much fat. The peritoneum, which invests a small part of its lateral sur- faces above, soon becomes limited to its anterior surface as it descends; and ceases altogether at a distance of about an inch from the termination of this part of the bowel. This incomplete serous covering is, in fact, the lower extremity of a pro- cess of peritoneum, which is called the recto- vesical pouch (r v, Jig. 276.). The apex of this, below, corresponds to the point where the membrane is reflected from the anterior sur- face of the rectum, to the neighbouring pos- terior surface of the bladder. Hence the front of the bowel, which, above, comes into contact with the distended bladder, or with any con- volution of small intestine that may chance to occupy the recto-vesical pouch, touches, be- low, the anterior part of the base of the blad- der. This it does in a triangular space, that is bounded on each side by the vesicula semi- nalis (i, Jig. 276.), and behind by the pouch aforesaid : — a space which therefore corre- sponds to the 11 trigone vesicate'''' on the inner surface of the bladder ; and marks a region, where this viscus may be punctured through the rectum, without any injury to the serous membrane. On each side of this part of the rectum, is a lamina of pelvic fascia which supports it; and externally to this is the coccygcus muscle, which descends from the spine of the ischium {li,Jig. 276.) to the bor- der of the coccyx. The third or terminal portion of the bowel (r 3, fig. 276.) is about lg inches long. It is surrounded, above, by areolar tissue loaded with fat: below, by the sphincter ani externus (at re); and by the levator ani (o and </) which descends from the pelvis to mingle its fibres of insertion with those of the former muscle. In front of it are the prostate (li;Jig. 276.) and the membranous portion of the urethra in the male, the vagina in the female: behind it, the tip of the coccyx in both sexes. The degree in which the prostate projects into the rectum will of course vary, both with the size of this gland, and with the amount of dis- tention to which the tube itself is habitually subjected. Where its distention is very great, the flaccid intestine sometimes appears almost folded around the prostate gland, so as to offer a kind of pouch on either side of it. As regards the structure of the rectum, its peritoneal coat has already received a sufficient description. Its muscular tunic differs remark- ably from that of the colon. In place of being divided into three bands, the fibres of the longi- tudinal coat are again collected into a single uniform expanse, that surrounds the whole of the tube. And both it and the transverse lajer are very much increased in thickness. Thus even in the upper part of the rectum, the muscular coat offers a total thickness which at Supp. least doubles that of the colon; while near its termination, it is scarcely less than four times as thick. The fibres themselves are of a red- der colour, especially the transverse; and near the anus, they are mingled with the striated elements of the adjoining voluntary muscles. And that distant analogy which the rectum seems to offer the oesophagus in all these respects, is rendered somewhat closer by the presence of numerous folds of mucous membrane, which the mere passive contrac- tion of its muscular tunic appears generally to produce. In short, it would hardly be an exaggeration to say that this, the last segment of the digestive canal, resumes not only the median position, but even the structure and action, of the first. Muscles of the amis. — The muscular appa- ratus that guards the lower outlet of the rec- tum, consists chiefly of two sphincter muscles, which close the orifice of the anus by their contraction. Of these, one, the sphincter ani internus, which is situated within the bowel, is little more than a thickening of the proper transverse or circular layer of its muscular coat. It lies immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and consists of the ordinary unstriped fibres, which retain their usual pale colour. The other, the proper sphincter, or the sphincter ani externus, is a deep-red mass of striated muscular fibre, which surrounds t'le lower extremity of the rectum (at re, Jig. 276.), including the pre- ceding structure. Its form is elliptical and con- cave; so that its outer border occupies a higher level than its inner one. Hence it receives the end of the bowel as it were into a shallow funnel; and, on contracting, occludes its cavity by the pressure of what is a surface, and not merely an edge, of its plane of fibres. Its outermost bundles arise from a tendinous structure which is prolonged from the tip of the coccyx; and they pass forwards, on both sides of the bowel, to reunite in the central tendinous point of the perinasnm. Its inner- most or lowest fibres are attached to a dense subcutaneous areolar tissue that lies before and behind the anus. In the female, they interlace anteriorly with those of the con- strictor vagina?, by what is often a distinct decussation. It is chiefly through the intervention of this sphincter that the levator ani muscle is con- nected with the lower extremity of the rec- tum. The fibres of this large expanse of striped muscular substance descend from their pelvic origin*, with an inclination backwards, to reach the lower orifice of the cavity of the pelvis, which they assist to close. In front of the rectum, a certain number of them are inserted into the tendinous and areolar tissues which here occupy the middle line of the peri- neum ; and these join more or less directly with the attachment of the external sphincter in the same situation. Behind the rectum, a considerable plane of the more posterior fibres * For a fuller description of the oi-igin and rela- tions of the above muscle, the reader is referred to the Article Pelvis. B B