STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 388 always taken into a stomach, or internal ca- vity, part of the total quantity of water which really accompanies thera into the system is often introduced by the same mode of absorption. So that, although the amount of water consumed by the organism has pro- bably a definite relation to the activity of the vital processes, the amount of this liquid habitually swallowed by any animal is greatly affected by the quantity introduced in other ways : namely, by the proportion contained in its solid food, the amount formed by the combustion of hydrogen in its body, and the quantity absorbed by its skin from the vaporous or liquid water of the surrounding media. Thus the apparently dry food of many herbivora is explained by the large amount of water, which is present as a chemical con- stituent of such food, and which accompanies its few digestible parts into the system. And the small amount of drink taken by many of the Batrachian reptiles is chiefly due to the active tegumcntary ingestion last alluded to. The quantity of water contained in the va- rious kinds of food ordinarily made use of, will be referred to hereafter. But we may probably fix its average at about 75 to 80 per cent, (or about 5 lbs.) of the mixed fluid and solid food (about 6'5 lbs.) of the human subject. 5. The salts of the food constitute the fifth and last group of its constituents, and that of which we may be said to know less than any of the others. For, while many of the more important are easily recognized in the ashes of the various fluid and solid aliments in which they are usually introduced into the body, still we are often at a loss to know the precise state of combination in which they are originally present in the food, far more that in which they enter into com- bination with the organism itself. In the case of many salts, we can, indeed, trace the actual changes of composition which occur in the organism. Thus the salts composed of the various organic acids united with the alkalies, are converted into car- bonates, prior to their dismissal from the body in the urine. And it seems possible that even the sulphates are occasionally decomposed in the alimentary canal ; their sulphuric acid being deoxidized into sul- phuretted hydrogen, while their bases unite with the carbonic acid formed in the system. Hence, although a careful and repeated ana- lysis of the salts contained in the organism and in its total excretions, might afford some clue to the qualities and quantities of the salts which ought to be introduced in the food, it would not by any means represent the details of these demands. While it is hardly necessary to add, that no such series of examinations has ever yet been made; and that, however carefully conducted, it might easily overlook very small quantities of im- portant ingredients. Many discrepancies, however, it would probably clear up ; such as why animals which in one region seem indifferent to salt, in others seek it with the greatest avidity; — why the diet which pro- duces scurvy in one person, leaves another little affected ;—and finally, why the roving population of the South American Pampas can maintain a robust health on the fresh meat of the wild cattle which range these plains, while an apparently similar diet on the flesh of tame cattle has been known to destroy English soldiers. The more essential salts of the food seem to be the chlorides and phosphates of the alkalies ; and especially, the chloride of so- dium, and the phosphate of soda. Lime and iron are also important bases. All of these ingredients are present in the salts of the milk ; together with some free soda and potash, which are probably combined with its casein. The phosphates are in large quantity ; espe- cially the phosphate of lime — the predo- minance of which is doubtless connected with the exigencies of ossification in the foetus. Varieties of food.— The above grouping of the various constituents of the food, will afford us a valuable clue to the composi- tion of its principal varieties. For however widely these varieties may differ from each other, they always contain representatives from each of the preceding classes. And the best food for any particular animal will always consist of such a proportion of all these con- stituents, as best corresponds to the demands made by the waste of its whole body, and to the peculiarities of its organs of digestion. The food most natural to Man is a mixed diet. But though thus far omnivorous, he readily adopts an exclusively animal or vege- table food, according to the circumstances in which he is placed. And there are probably but few of the carnivorous and herbivorous animals, most properly so termed, in whom careful experiments would not detect a simi- lar, though scarcely equal, capacity for such a change of diet. Thus the herbivorous Horse and Cow may be brought to eat fish and flesh ; and the carnivorous sea-birds can be gradually habituated to the far more diffi- cult change implied in their feeding on grain. But many of the frugivorous Quadrumanascem little susceptible of such alterations of diet. While there seem to be numerous Insects, which are not only strictly limited to a vege- table food, but even to certain species of plants, or particular parts of their structure. The influence of any special variety of food on the human organism depends chiefly on its physical and chemical properties:—in other words, on its mechanical arrangement and admixture ; and on the constituents which it presents ; either originally, or as modified by the operations of cooking. Hence these are the chief points which will be noticed in the following short description. It is obvious that the division of the various alimentary substances into solid and liquid, or food and drink, is an incorrect one. For, on the one hand, even the driest articles of solid food contain a large proportion of water of composition. And conversely, the purest liquids ordinarily made use of contain a certain quantity of solids, in the shape of