325 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. Y 3 network or matrix; — their blind extremities being also imbedded in a considerable stratum of this texture, which is continuous with that surrounding their sides. The arrangement of the latter part of it is best seen by making hori- zontal sections of the mucous membrane, so as to cut transversely across the gastric tubes at different heights. Its quantity is small in proportion to the diameter of the tubes. And in it we may recognize, besides cut extremities of vessels, indistinct concentric fibres, which appear to surround the tubes, and decussate with each other. In the ramified tubes of many animals, each original tube, and its set of secondary branches, is enclosed in a tole- rably thick sheatli of this kind, which gives off slenderer partitions of the same nature between the smallest individual tubes. On the surface of the stomach, this matrix is nearly homogeneous; but its fibrous cha- racter is more distinct at the deeper parts of the membrane, and in those tubes which occupy the neighbourhood of the pylorus. Here its quantity is also increased. Many years ago, the author was struck with the re- markable difference between that layer of this fibrous tissue which lies beneath the tubes, and the submucous areolar tissue upon which it is placed ; — the former being characterized, not only by its darker colour, and its dense and closely interwoven texture, but also by its being much less acted on by acetic acid. But Middeldorpf * has since made the im- portant discovery, that this peculiar layer, which extends from the cardia to the anus, is in reality composed of a mixture of areolar tissue, and organic or unstriped muscle: — the fibres of the latter structure being arranged in two series of bundles that decussate with each other at an acute angle. Externally, these fibres are conjectured by Koelliker to be more or less continuous with the ends of the oblique fibres of the muscular coat. Internally, Bruecke states them to pass upwards, in small bundles, between the several tubes. This statement is to some extent confirmed by Koelliker, who has seen numerous cells very like the fibre-cells of organic muscle occupying this situation in Man, some Ruminants, and the Pig. In the latter animal, bundles of these fibres penetrate the rudimentary villi of the pylorus, and occupy their axes. Of the function of these muscular-fibre cells we know nothing. But, from their arrangement, it would seem not impossible that they are destined to maintain the tubes in their normal situation, against the disturbances which the contractions of the proper muscular coat might otherwise produce. Areolar tissue. A layer of loose submucous areolar tissue (the tunica nervea of some authors) connects the mucous membrane of the stomach with the proper muscular coat pre- viously described. Seen in vertical section, its thickness is a little greater than that of the denser muscular stratum which receives the ex- * De glandulis Brunnianis. Vratisl: 1846. tremities of the tubes. Its constituents are the ordinary white and yellow fibrous ele- ments ; the elastic filaments of the latter being chiefly of small size. Externally, it is pretty firmly connected with the muscular coat, and appears to receive many of its fibres. But internally, where it approaches the fibrous matrix, its meshes are very large and loose, so as to allow of the mucous membrane being thrown into folds by the contraction of the muscular tunic. It contains the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics destined for the supply of the mucous mem- brane. The vessels of the stomach are very large and numerous. The arteries are derived from the abdominal aorta. The veins empty themselves into the vena portce, which rami- fies in the liver. The arteries of the stomach all come off from the cceliac axis. This vessel, which leaves the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra, continues obliquely forwards as a short thick trunk for a distance of about half an inch ; when the "axis" ceases, by giving off, at right angles to itself, three large branches : — namely, the gastric, hepatic, and splenic. Fig. 250. Arteries of the stomach. The cceliac axis, as seen by raising the liver, and depressing the stomach, a, arteria eoronaria ventriculi; b, gastric branches of the same ; c, arteria hepatica; d, arteria gastro- duodenalis; e, arteria gastro-epiploica dextra; g, arteria pylorica; h, arteria splenica; i, arteria gastro- epiploica sinistra. The arteria coronaria ventriculi (a, Jigs. 250, 251.), or proper gastric artery, is the smallest of these three. It passes upwards and towards the left side, beneath the peritoneum which forms the dorsal and outer surface of the sac of the