91 PANCREAS. and regards the entire laminated pouch as a more developed form of pancreas than the simple caecum, which we have just described as representing that gland in some of the Gasteropods. Vertebrata. — Fishes. — At the commence- ment of the intestinal canal, close to the pylorus, are found, in most osseous fishes, certain casca or blind tubes, budding out from the wall of the canal, which from their position have received the name of pyloric appendages, and have been regarded by most anatomists as the analogue of the pancreas in higher animals. In their most simple form— that of a single, or two or three short buddings of the intestinal wall, not differing from it in the structures that form them, the analogy would hardly suggest itself, but by gradual steps we are conducted from this simple re- presentative of the organ, through a series of forms of increasing complexity, to a structure bearing some analogy to a conglomerate gland, and at any rate deserving to be considered a special glandular appendage to the alimentary canal; the caeca becoming more and more numerous as we ascend in the scale, and the whole organ more and more concentrated. Thus in the Sandlance (Ammodytes lanced), and Polypterus there is but one pyloric cae- cum; in most of the Labyrinthibranchs, in many species of Amphiprion, in the Angler (Lopkhis piscatorius), Turbot (Pleuronectes maxknus), and Mormyrus there are two ; in the Perch(Pe;-mJtuviatilis),t\\e percoid Popes, the Asprodes and Diploprions, three ; in the Miller's Thumb (Cottus gobio), and Father Lasher (Cottus scorpius), from four to nine; in the Gurnard (Trigla), from five to nine ; in Scorpaena and Holocentrum, six and up- wards ; in the Pilchard (Ctipea pi/cardus), and Lump-fish (Cycloptcrus lumpus), there are fifty, and upwards of fifty in the Tunny (Scomber thynnus) ; in the Cod (Gadus mor- rhua), there are upwards of 120 : and in the Sturgeon (Aeipenser sturio) and Paddle-fish they cannot be counted.* But the increased complexity, and divergence from the simple csecal form, is not produced only by the greater number of the appendages. As they increase in number, they more and more coalesce at their bases, so that many cajca open by few orifices, and thus the character of the gland is gradually changed, becomes clustered and branched, and passes from the tubular to the racemose type. Thus, in the Pilchard, fifty tubes communicate with the intestine by thirty orifices; in the Lump-fish the same number by six ; in the Tunny, by five; in the Sword-fish (Xiphias gladius), there are but two orifices ; and in the Stur- geon, the whole mass of casca, by continually uniting and re-uniting, come at last to empty themselves into a single tube, equivalent, in fact, to a short and wide pancreatic duct. The reasons which have induced anato- mists to regard this organ as the analogue of the pancreas are these. * Owen's Lectures on Comparative Anatomy. In the first place, the situation; it is placed at the pyloric extremity of the intestine ; and besides this general similarity in situation, there is this special one, that the hepatic duct has the same relation to it as it has to the pancreas in higher animals. If there is but one orifice, as in the Sturgeon, the hepatic duct opens at its base; if many, at the base of one of them. Secondly. If they were merely multiplica- tions of surfaces to which food was to be ex- posed, we should find food getting into them; but this is never the case. I have not been able to detect any alimentary materials in even the largest of them ; their function there- fore must be that of pouring forth some special secretion. Again, it is not the way, the particular method, in which surface is multiplied ; that is done by modifications of the lining mem- brane of the intestine, the mucous structures, alone—by folds, villi, crypts—and not by extension of the whole intestinal wall, mus- cular and sub-mucous, as well. Lastly, the filling up of all the intervening stages from simple tube to conglomerate pan- creas goes a great way to prove the essential identity of the extreme forms. But what is very remarkable with regard to these appendages is their entire absence in many classes of fish. In all the Abdominal Malacopterygii, except the Salmonidce and Clupeidae, they are wanting ; in most of the Labroids, Gabioids, Cyprinoids, and Lucioids, they are absent ; in the Apodous Malacop- terygii, in the Lophobranchs and Plectognats there is no trace of them; nor in the genera Antennarius, Malthaeus, and Batrachus In some cases they appear to be wanting in con- sequence of their place being supplied by a more elaborate mucous surface, as in the highly developed stomach of the Anarrhichas, and the glandular palate and long intestine of the Carp'( Cyprinus); in others, their absence seems to be but a part of a general simplicity of the alimentary apparatus, as, for instance, in the Dermopterous fish. In the Eel, where there are no caeca, the mucous membrane at the pylorus suddenly becomes thick, vascular, and spongy, and continues so for about an inch ; and on pressure an abundant secretion may be squeezed out of its wall, of an appearance exactly identical with that found in the pyloric appendages where they are present. It is difficult to seize on the law of their existence ; we may, however, say that they are, for the most part, wanting in fish that live on vegetable substances, although there are many similarly circumstanced that are carnivorous and very voracious. Their de- velopment, or their relative size, their number and complication, are probably in proportion to the activity of digestion and rapidity of growth ; the Salmonidae, the Clypeida; and Scomberidae, seem to indicate this : in these last these pyloric caeca exhibit a remarkable complexity. In the Turbot (Pleuronectes maxim us) these caeca are seen in their most rudimentary