613 FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Development). R R 3 ference, the seat of normal impregnation ; while such a view is opposed to those nu- merous observations upon the mammalian ovum generally, which show, that before the ovum quits the oviduct, the developmental changes in it are already advanced many stages, while, by the time that it arrives at the uterus, the opportunity for impregnation has already passed away for that occasion. Development of the Fallopian Tube. Whatever difference of opinion may exist regarding the origin of the excretory duct of the male generative gland, there appears to be no doubt, that in birds at least the correspond- ing part in the female has its commencement in a structure which, as soon as it can be recognised as a distinct tube, is altogether separate from the Wolffian body. This is called after its first observer, the duct of Miiller* {fig. 400. g). The mode of origin of this duct has been already partly described in the account which has been given of the formation of the Paro- varium (p. 594.). Its development may be most conveniently traced in birds, where it can be easily shown that the oviduct is not a metamorphosis of the excretory duct of the Wolffian body, but may be distinguished lying near it, in the form of a tolerably thick tube ; which at first ends in a closed extremity, but afterwards exhibits a wide orifice. It runs along the outer side of the Wolffian body, while its infundibulum, which is soon distin- guishable, extends beyond and is entirely se- parate from that body. The oviducts appear from the first in the form of white cylinders on both sides. They do not grow from below upwards, but are formed in their entire length from the com- mencement ; nor are they constructed out of a membranous lamina, rolled together, as Meckel supposed; but are in the beginning solid, and become gradually hollowed out into a tube. In this way also is formed the infun- dibular opening of the tube into the abdomi- nal cavity. Two oviducts exist, originally in all birds, but as in this class the right ovary shrinks and disappears, so the right oviduct becomes lost, by gradually contracting and shortening from above downwards, j- In mammals, before the distinction of sex becomes apparent internally, there is seen, running along the Wolffian body of each side in every embryo, a duct, which, according to Miiller, may represent either a vas deferens, or an oviduct. These ducts lie upon opposite sides of the germ glands, which may become afterwards testis or ovary. Soon afterwards the internal organs begin to exhibit a distinction of sex. This is indi- * See Milller's Bildungsgeschiehte der genita- Iien. Diisseldorf, 1830. f Prof. Quekett lias pointed out to me, in the col- lection of the Royal College of Surgeons, a remark- able preparation by Mr. Tegetmeir, in which the right oviduct is developed in the common fowl. cated in the future male by the duct, which runs along the outer side of the Wolffian body, sending off' a white granular projection, extending towards the testis, which is met by a similar projection, given off by the upper end of the testis, and these two by their union form the rudiments of the epididymis. So that in the male mammal a new connexion is established between the duct, which after- wards becomes vas deferens, and the testis, without any agency from the Wolffian body, but through the development of new material. In the female these projections are wanting, both from the excretory duct and from the ovary. The latter remains attached only to the Wolffian body by a simple fold. The up- per end of the duct, which runs over the Wolffian body, projects somewhat beyond that body inferiorly, and terminates here in a glo- bular swelling, in which an aperture is formed at a later period. As the Wolffian body becomes atrophied the portion of the duct which takes its course over it, and which was previously straight, begins to be tortuous in the male, while in the female it remains straight, but becomes wider. Out of corresponding portions of the duct are formed, in the male, the head of the epi- didymis, and in the female the infundibular end of the tube, while the inferior free por- tion of the duct, after it lias quitted the Wolffian body becomes converted, in the male, into the vas deferens, becoming at the same time more and more elongated ; but in the female the corresponding portion of the duct is transformed into the inferior division of the tube, or into the cornu of the uterus.* In this stage of its development the inci- pient Fallopian tube is only beginning to be recognisable. It circumscribes the diminish- ing Wolffian body on its outer side in the form of a bow. Above the superior opening extends beyond that body, while below the short free portion becomes conjoined with that of the opposite side to form a single tube. These ducts have throughout the same breadth up to their union with each other. A division of the duct into uterus or cornu, and narrower Fallopian tube, is still nowhere perceptible, and the place of this latter divi- sion is only as yet indicated by the addition of the substance which afterwards becomes ligamentum rotundum. Between the oviduct and the ovary lies the atrophied Wolffian body of a dirty yellow colour, in part surrounding the ovary ; but notwithstanding this conti- guity the tubuli of the Wolffian body form no union between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. The duct, or future Fallopian tube, which had previously preserved a perpendi- cular direction, now takes, with the rest of these parts, a more sunken position. But it still lies close to the Wolffian body, from which it is separated by a narrow fold of peritoneum. * The researches of Kobelt upon this subject, have been already explained under the head of development, of the Parovarium,