20-1 PELVIS. Since we know that the fcetus in utero is subject to similar pathological changes to those of childhood, it seems probable that a modi- fication of the two theories may be the true statement of the origin of this formation —viz., an occurrence of inflammation and the patho- logical changes usually consequent upon this process in joints—such as ankylosis, happening at a period of immaturity, coincident with, or consequent upon, an arrest of development in the structures implicated, and probably having the same ultimate cause. The three cases before quoted from Naegele, in which the deficiency of the sacrum and the oblique deformity existed, but without the ankylosis, and on the other band, the many cases in which we have ankylosis on one or both sides with- out the oblique deformity, show that the two conditions may occur separate!} and indepen- dently of each other. These cases also prove beyond a doubt, that the sacro-iliac ankylosis of itself does not produce the deformity ; and, moreover, that it is not absolutely an essen- tial, although a frequent accompaniment of this peculiar formation. A third supposition alluded to by Naegele, that the ankylosis and oblique distortion is caused by increased pressure from the lateral divergence of the vertebral curve in early youth, seems to be contravened by the fact, that such a pressure does not produce such a result in the many instances of other pelvic deformities. The tendency to an unsym- metrical one-sided distortion in the instances before alluded to, presents many differences to, and more variations of form than, the defor- mity under consideration. The mechanism of this deformity in re- spect to the line of gravity of the body fall- ing nearer to the acetabulum of the anky- losed side, and so throwing the weight of the body more on to the corresponding leg than on its fellow, will present some similarities to that of the one-sided pelvis just mentioned; with this exception, that the bones of the obliquely ovate pelvis are healthy and not softened, and that the lateral pelvic arch is, consequently, flattened only, and not indented, the principal yielding and inward bend appear- ing to take place at the abnormal sacro-iliac junction, and thus the antero-posterior dia- meter—i. e. from the sacral promontory to the pubic symphysis—is increased and not dimi- nished. Another form of unsymmetrical pelvis is described by Rokitansky, arising from a coa- lescence of the base of the sacrum with the body and transverse process of the last lum- bar vertebra, on one side the median line only, and the participation of the latter in the for- mation of the sacro-iliac joint on that side. The innominate bone thus obtains a higher degree of elevation, and a greater inclination to the spine, and describes a larger and shal- lower curve of the "linca innominata"than its fellow. The conjugate diameter is rendered greater, and there is a larger capacity on the abnormal side of the pelvic cavity. There is but slight projection of the sacral promontory, and the lumbar vertebrae are rotated, and their curve inclines to the opposite or smaller side, and may thus produce a lateral compensating curve in the thoracic region. In this latter particular, also, this form of pelvic distortion differs from that described by Naegele, in which the lumbar curve is towards the abnormal side. I have met with two pelves presenting this abnormality. In one, that of a. female, which is in the collection of Dr. A. Farre (Jig, 124.) Fig. 124. Oblique pelvis from sacro-lumbar coalescence. the left half of the sacral base is ankylosed to the corresponding side of the body and trans- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, which are flattened and enlarged so as to as- sume the form of the first sacral, leaving a hole for the transmission of the last lumbar nerve. The lumbar transverse process of the opposite side is bifurcated, the lower division being attached by ligament to the venter ilii ; and the corresponding half of the sacro-lum- bar fibro cartilage remains unossified. The last lumbar spine and laminae are connected with the sacrum by very thin plates of bone, but preserve their own distinct outline. There is no ankylosis of the sacro-iliac or lumbo-iliac joints. The true sacral promontory projects little, but a prominent false one is formed by the last lumbar vertebra. The sacrum is short and small, but presents four distinct sacral holes, and five pieces. The lower part of the sacrum presents an abrupt forward curve, so as to leave, with the shortness of the whole bone, little room for a foetal head, which would, probably, require craniotomy in such a pelvis. There is a slight lumbar curve to the right or opposite side to the lumbar ab- normality. The pubic symphysis, also, is re- moved about i or | of an inch to the right of the median line. The other pelvis is that of a male, in the Museum of King's College. In this pelvis, there is complete ankylosis of both the proper sacro-iliac joints, preserving behind pretty much the outline of the sacro-iliac ligaments ; and partial ankylosis of the abnormal lumbo- iliac junction, which is also on the leftside. The true sacrum is large and well formed, and the posterior crest is connected with the last lumbar spine by a thin plate of bone. There is, apparently, no lateral spinal curve in this specimen.