427 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. the supposed communication between the sympathetic and pituitary body in mammals and birds, but failed to convince himself that any such communication exists. (<?) Arterial branches, accompanying the branches of the internal carotid arteries. These are described by Chaussier* and Ribes as passing not only along the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, but also along the branches of the ophthalmic artery, forming minute plexuses upon them. One of these plexuses is described by these authors, as well as by Rnself and Langenbeck, as accompanying the central artery of the retina into the eyeball. Ribes has also traced filaments from the cavernous plexus upon the anterior communicating arteries, by means of which the sympathetic cords of either side are united, there being at their point of junction a small ganglionic enlargement; this arrangement has been denied by Lobstein and others. 3. External Carotid Plexus. — The external carotid plexus formed as already mentioned by the union of the nervi molles from the su- perior cervical ganglion, commences at the origin of the external carotid artery. There is sometimes a ganglionic enlargement present, which from the fact of being situated at the point of bifurcation of the common carotid artery, was termed by Arnold the intercaro- tidean ganglion. The external carotid plexus extends along the artery of the same name, encircling it with numerous branches, on which frequently occur small ganglionic en- largements. At its commencement numerous communications are formed between it and the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves, which go to form the pharyngeal plexus. It also forms connections with the upper cardiac nerve, and, higher up, as it passes with the artery through the parotid gland, branches are given oil'for the supply of this organ, and also others, which become connected with the facial and aurieulo-tem- poral nerves. Offsets are sent from it along the divisions of the external carotid artery, forming a number of plexuses around them, which are named according to the arterial branches which they accompany. One of these accompanies the superior thyroid artery into the substance of the thyroid gland : it communicates with the superior laryngeal and upper cardiac nerves. Another accompanies the ascending pharyngeal artery, and is inti- mately connected with the pharyngeal plexus. The lingual plexus encircles the artery of the same name, giving off filaments to the sub- lingual gland, and forming communications with the lingual branches of the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve. The facial plexus surrounds the facial artery and its branches, one or two filaments, which accompany the submental artery, pass to the submaxillary gland, and * Mcmoires de la Soeiete Med. d'Emulation, vol. vii. p. 97, f Tiedemann's Zeitschrift. fiir Physiol, band ii. p. 227. communicate with the ganglion of the same name. Small plexuses accompanying the occi- pital and posterior auricular arteries seem to terminate chiefly in the parotid gland. Most of the branches which accompany the super- ficial temporal artery appear to pass along the arteries going to the ear and eyelids. Nu- merous filaments, presenting here and there ganglionic enlargements, proceed upwards on the external carotid artery as far as its divi- sion into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries ; many of these appear to terminate in the parotid gland, while others accompany the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. Of the latter, one is described by Arnold as emanating from the plexus surrounding the middle meningeal artery, and passing to the posterior part of the otic ganglion. Subsidiary branches accompany the different divisions of the internal maxillary artery. From the external carotid plexus several filaments pass downwards upon the common carotid artery, forming, with others derived from the middle cervical ganglion, a plexus around the vessel, which accompanies it and forms communications with the inferior thyroid plexus, as well as with the superior cardiac nerve and cardiac plexus. B. Thoracic Plexuses of the Sympathetic.— The plexuses occurring in the thorax in con- nection with the sympathetic are the cardiac plexus, and the plexus surrounding the thoracic aorta: it also contributes to the formation of the pulmonary and oesophageal plexuses. 1. Cardiac Plexus. — The cardiac plexus is formed by the union of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic already described, and by numerous filaments derived from the recurrent laryngeal, as well as from the vagus nerve it- self; a branch from the descendens noni nerve accompanies the superior cardiac nerve, and also terminates in the plexus. The superior cardiac nerves, the branches from the recurrent laryngeal and vagus nerves terminate in the upper part of the plexus ; the middle cardiac branches of both sides terminate commonly in its middle portion, while the inferior cardiac branches, with some of those derived from the recurrent laryngeal nerve, end chiefly in its lower part. The plexus is asymmetrical, and is situated in the upper part of the tho- racic cavity, extending from the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta to the base of the heart: it consists of a widely-meshed network of moderately fine filaments, some presenting a greyish, others a more or less white appearance. About the centre of the plexus, behind the arch of the aorta and in front of the bifurcations of the trachea, at the point of division of the pulmonary artery there is commonly present a ganglionic en- largement. This which is termed the cardiac ganglion (Ganglion cardiacum Wrisbergii), presents a greyish colour and irregular shape, generally more or less angular or oblong, and measures from one to two lines in length. That portion of the cardiac plexus which is