RUMINANTIA. 527 many of the avian and piscine families, traces of it also appearing in Solipeda and other quadrupeds ; it is remarkably large in the Bear. In Camelidae the basi-hyal presents no anterior protuberance. The fourth pair or thyro-hyals — hypo-branchials of fishes and amphibia—(5, 5) represent the greater cornua of the anthropotomist, but in certain mam- mifers, as in the family under consideration, their extent of development is subordinate to that of the lesser horns. In birds, on the other hand, the length of the thyro-hyals is extreme, the lesser cornua being either rudi- mentary, or altogether absent.* The muscles proper to the hyoid chain of bones present many interesting modifications. The sterno-hyoids and sterno-thyroids (which in Man and mammifera generally, remain distinct throughout their entire extent), are united below in the majority of ruminants, their com- mon band of origin dividing near the middle of the neck, the larger division being connected to the hyoid bone. Meckel states that the sterno-hyoid is entirely absent in the Camel, and Duvernoy remarks the same peculiarity in the Sheep ; but Gurlt figures the upper part of it in the latter animal and in the Ox. A muscle analogous to the omo-hyoid presents a remarkable difference of origin, relatively, in the typical ruminants, the Camel and the Giraffe. In the Sheep it originates, according to Meckel, in the form of a muscular band of considerable dimensions, which is given off by the rectus capitis anticus major, and leaves that muscle at a point corresponding to the third cervical vertebra to be inserted into the hyoid immediately behind the attachment of the thyro-hyoid muscle. Its relation in the Giraffe will be reverted to presently. In the Camel the disposition of this structure is ex- tremely complicated. From the researches of Meckel we learn that it arises from the anterior division of the transverse process of the fourth cervical vertebra, and is confounded near its commencement with the lowermost bundle of the straight anterior muscle of the head ; it subsequently divides into three por- tions, the first becoming inserted into the lower lip, the second going to the posterior cornua of the hyoid, and the third attaching itself to the lower jaw, upon which it acts as a powerful depressor. Professor Goodsir has remarked to us that an anomaly analogous to this latter distribution is sometimes seen in the human subject. The stylo-hyoid, which is absent in certain Carnivora, its place being sup- plied by a narrow muscle termed the ceratoido- lateralis, is present in the Ruminantia, where the latter muscle appears as a prolongation of the stylo-hyoid rather than as a'distinct muscle. The first of these two muscles — regarding them as such — proceeds by a long tendon from the posterior and inferior apophysis of the styloid bone, to be attached below to the base of the thyroid cornua; the ceratoido- lateralis also descends obliquely from the lesser horn to the greater. In both the above- named families and in the Pachydermata there is likewise a special muscle termed the masto- styloid; it is short and triangular, and, arising from the mastoid process of the temporal bone, becomes inserted into the inferior apo- physis of the hammer-shaped extremity of the stylo-hyal element or styloid bone,immediately above the origin of the tendon of the stylo- hyoid muscle. The mylo-kyoid is distinctly double, the anterior bundle having an extended longitudinal development, while the posterior division is short, and has its fibres directed transversely outward. The ge?iio-hyoids of either side are incorporated at the middle line. In the foregoing description of the muscles connected with the hyoid apparatus we have intentionally omitted those of the Giraffe, pre- ferring, on account of the peculiar interest which the muscular arrangements of this ani- mal present, to treat of them separately. We quote at length, therefore, from the accurate researches of Professor Owen.* " The my/o- hyoideus is a thick and strong muscle , it arises from the whole of the internal surface of the lower jaw, and is inserted principally into the raphe, or longitudinal commissure, dividing it from its fellow of the opposite side. It adheres firmly to the genio-hyoideus : this arises by a well marked tendon from the posterior rugous surface of the symphysis menti, and has the usual insertion. The genio-glossus arises by a tendon close to the inner side of the tendon of the genio-hyoideus; its fleshy belly has a considerable antero- posterior extent, and diminishes to a very thin edge at its anterior margin. The digas- tricus has the usual origin, and is inserted, broad and thick, into the under side of the lower jaw. The stylo-hyoid is external to the digastricus, and is remarkable for the slencler- ness and length of its carneous part. The most interesting modifications in the muscles of the os hyoides were found in those which retract that bone. The muscle which, as in some other ruminants, combines the offices of the sterno-thyroideus and sterno-hyoideus, arises in the Giraffe by a single long and slender carneous portion from the anterior extremity of the sternum; this single fleshy origin is nine inches long, and terminates in a single round tendon, which is six inches long; the tendon then divides into two, and each di- vision soon becomes fleshy, and so continues for about sixteen inches ; then each division again becomes tendinous for the extent of two inches, and ultimately carneous again, when it is inserted into the side of the thy- roid cartilage, and is thence continued in the form of & fascia into the os hyoides. We have in this alternation of a contractile with a non- contractile tissue a striking example of the use of tendon in limiting the length of the car- neous or contractile part of a muscle to the extent of motion required to be produced in the part to which the muscle is attached. Had the sterno-thyroideus been continued fleshy as usual from its origin through the * Soa art. Tongue. * Memoir, I. c. p. 232.