[80] OVUM. addition to the ovum of the rabbit, the diame- ter of which is thus increased between two and three times, so as to give it somewhat the aspect of the ovum of a Batrachian in minia- ture ; and in the dog it has appeared to me that the increased thickness and more opaque and flocculent roughness of the surface of the zona were sufficient proofs of a new deposit having taken place. This deposit, no doubt, becomes very completely incorporated with the substance of the zona, and is not easily to be distinguished from it; but in one or two instances I have thought that I was able to perceive a line of demarcation between them. Several of BischofF's very faithful figures seem to me even to represent this deposit as it has occurred on the ova of the dog. But his statements in his work on the Development of the Guinea-Pig * are so precise against the occurrence of such a deposit, that further ob- servations will be required fully to determine the question whether it is of constant oc- currence or essential to the formation of the chorion. Later observations lead me to think that I may have been in error in supposing that the villi of the chorion grow directly from the al- buminous deposit. These villi, which, as I have said, form a most characteristic feature of the external covering of the mammiferous ovum in the course of development, begin to be formed only when the ovum has reached the cavity of the uterus. The time of the formation of these villi, as well as their size, varies, however, con- siderably in different animals, and probably also to some extent in the same animal. -|- Thcy are developed from the external surface, and their structure is at first nearly homo- geneous, or at least only slightly granular ; they afterwards acquire a cellular structure, and in the course of foetal development be- come at an early period the seat of a compli- cated vascular growth, by which the relations of the maternal parent and offspring are main- tained through utero-gestation. But the fuller description of this part of the growth of the chorion belongs rather to the history of de- velopment after fecundation. My present object has been only to show the relation of this membrane to the zona or ovarian cover- ings of the ovum. The contents of the ovum or parts within the zona consist of the yolk-mass or yolk- substance, and the germinal vesicle. The first of these constitutes a spherical mass of varia- ble consistence,in which granules, or molecules and globules of various sizes, from the most minute up to about jJ55 or ^oW"' are sus" pended in a fluid. The proportion of the gra- nules to the fluid varies to a considerable ex- tent in different animals, the ovum being much more opaque, and usually of a dull-yellow co- lour when the granules are in large quantity, as is the case in most Carnivora, and may be easily seen in the dog or cat. The clear fluid in * Entwickelungsg. des Meersckweinchens, 4to. Giessen, 1852. f Barry and Bischoff. Fig. 59*. Ovarian ovum of the Babbit. (From Coste.~) a, ovarian ovum extracted from a nearly ripe Graafian follicle, and freed from the adherent granular cells; the close set granules of the yolk substance, among which the germinal vesicle is perceived with a slightly oval macula or nucleus, are well represented. b, the same burst by pressure; the yolk granules adhering together by a viscid clearer fluid sub- stance are seen escaping from the large aperture in the zona along with the germinal vesicle. which the granules are suspended varies also in its consistence, being of a marked viscid qua- lity in some instances, and thin and limpid in others; so that in some animals, when the zona is punctured, the yolk-substance flows freely out, while in others, and this is the case in the human ovum, the yolk-substance holds together as one consistent mass. The yolk- substance does not adhere in the slightest to the interior of the the zona, but on the con- trary is readily detached from it; and in some instances, in the entire unimpregnated ovum, a space is seen between the yolk-substance and the zona, formed apparently by the imbibition of water between them. This separation be- tween the yolk-substance and zona appears to be, at a later period, a constant and pro- bably important change in connection with fecundation and development. The granules of the yolk-substance are ge- nerally rather more densely set together and