RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 208 that Reisseissen mistook the infundibula of Rossignol which are loculated with the ulti- mate cells, both terminally and laterally, for the separate ends of separate bronchial tubes. It is no less certain that Rossignol has disposed with unnatural precision the "cells" and "passages" of which the lobule is composed. Schultz, again, has erred in viewing the in- tercellular passages in the light of "bronchial petioles:"—Bronehiolorum continuationes ita constructas causis supra dictis commotus ap- pellaverim petioles, atque banc denominationem novam commendo, fines autem eorum amplifi- catos nomine jam antea ipsis indito infundibula voco ; eos denique alveolos, qui in petiolis reperiuntur alveolos parietales, omnes vero, qui in infundibulis occurrunt, alveolos termi- nales nomino." * Professors Schroder Van der Kolk,Harting, Promotor,and theirpupil Adrius Adriani,adopt the opinions of Rossignol in relation to the disposition of the air-cells ancf passages within the lobuli. Whether the intercellular passages be distinguished by that name or by that of the infundibula, it is certain that they differ both from bronchial tubes and from the ulti- mate air-cells by a greater diameter. The nearer they are to the point of their attach- ment to the bronchial tubes, the more tubular or cylindrical their figure or outline ; the fur- ther, the more irregular and inosculating, until Fig. 216. jL section at right angle to the axes of the " in fun- dibula," showing the alveoli (b, e). {After Jiossignol.) finally they terminate in air-cells ; not after the manner supposed by Reisseissen in form of a Florence flask ; for the extreme cell has the same diameter as the tube itself. From the accompanying diagram, constructed by the author, the relation between the bronchi, * Disq. do Struc. et Text. Canal, aerif. Scripsit Ernest Schultz, Lypsia?, i850, p. 34. intercellular passages, and air-cells will be readily understood. It is, then, important to remember that the intercellular passages are open spaces between the ultimate cells, their walls being constituted of these latter. Like the ultimate cells, there- fore, they participate actively in the process of respiration. They are not merely convective conduits. Since they proceed at every plane and angle from the centre of the lobule, a section of the latter in any direction will cut these passages both transversely and longi- tudinally. Ultimate Air-Ceils of the Lungs.— Vesicular, s. cellules ae'rece, s. JMalpighiance, alveoli pul- monum ; Rossignol.—An air-cell in the human and mammalian lung is a space circumscribed by a single wall of reticulated capillaries, and varying infinitely in figure, and presenting in different parts of the lung numerous varieties of size ; each cell having an opening embracing a section, more or less considerable, of its circumference. The cells on the walls of the intercellular passages (the sides of the in- fundibulum of Rossignol) may be defined as mere cup-shaped depressions, sometimes perforated at the bottom by a large foramen opening into one or more cells. Under the pleura the air-cell occurs as a four or six-sided chamber, of which the bottom, presenting under the pleural membrane, is rounded, and might readily be mistaken for the fundus of a pear- shaped vesicle, the apex running into a bronchial tubule. If a cell, situated in the central parts of a lobule, be selected for examination, it will be found as a polyhedral alveolus, one or two or more of whose sides are deficient or con- verted into a foramina, through which its enclosed space communicates with those of contiguous cells. No cell is a perfect geome- trical figure—such, that is, as would be formed by regular plane sides ; because ridges and partial partitions, from the encroachment of the angles of neighbouring cells, project into and multiply its interior. It is not often that the eye falls upon a unilocular cell having only one opening: they occur most frequently as ir- regular, angular spaces, with one or more im- perfect sides, Jig. 219. Those cells which com- municate directly with the bronchial tubes and intercellular passages open into them by large circular apertures ; and they are themselves similarly perforated, to communicate with other vesicles, which again open into others beyond them ; so that each of the openings in the air- passage leads to a series of cells, 'extending from it to the surface of the lobule. The vesicles which communicate directly with the air-passages are more minute, and have a closer vascular network than those which lie nearer to the surface of the lobule; an arrangement which is in beautiful harmony with the relative facility by which the air in them respectively is renovated. The dia- meter of the human air-cells is about twenty times greater than that of the capillaries which are distributed upon their parietes, varying, according to the measurement of