35 OVUM. D 2 These phenomena are confined to the In- vertebratetl animals, and among them are to be regarded as occasional and exceptional rather than general. Among the Protozoa they may exist to a greater extent than is yet known; they occur more or less in all the divisions of the Radiata,but more constantly and obviously in the Polypinaand Acalepha than in the Echi- nodermata : among the Mollusca they have been observed only in the comparatively limited classes ofBryozoa and Tunicata: they are almost universal in two divisions of the class Entozoa, viz. the Cestoidea and Trema- toda, but they are altogether absent in the Nematoidea; they belong only to the lowest division of the Annelida, and among the Arti- culata proper the almost entirely exceptional examples are confined to the class of insects. Nor are the phenomena universal in those classes or orders of the animal kingdom in which they have been described. In some of these divisions, therefore, and in all the others of the animal kingdom, the manner of the reproductive process is ascertained to be direct, that is, by generation from sexual parents, and by development, or in some in- stances by metamorphosis, from ova to sexual individuals ; to which may be added, in some animals, by the multiplication of like indi- viduals, separate or aggregated, by gemmation. But although this general statement is ap- plicable to the present state of our knowledge, we are still too imperfectly acquainted with many forms of the reproductive process to warrant us in affirming that there n ay not yet be discovered many other deviations from that which has long been familiar to our minds as the more common and direct connection between the ovum and the perfect or sexual individuals which produce it. In the mean time let us endeavour, according to our present information, to determine the true character of theseemingly exceptional phcnomena,of which the more important have been noticed in the preceding section. The views first suggested by Steenstrup, in 1842, in connection with these phenomena are unquestionably to be regarded in the light of a discovery, and the attempt to de- prive them of their character of novelty and importance, or to refer them to other pre- viously known general laws, has entirely failed.* It may be that the smaller portion only of the facts on which the views are founded may have been first observed by Steenstrup, and that parts also of these views may be in themselves premature, speculative, or erroneous ; but all discoveries in science are the result of the successive and concurrent observations of a number of inquirers; and no one who has had an opportunity of studying the history of the progress of research into the reproductive function during the last twenty years, will deny that the view which has associated together the phenomena in question under a common principle, has had * See Ed. Forbes' Remarks, in Treatise on Naked- eyed Medusa;, 1818, p. 83., et seg. a most important influence in modifying the doctrines and in guiding and suggesting the researches of those physiologists who have devoted themselves to inquiries into the origin, early conditions, and zoological affi- nities of the lower animals ; and it may truly be affirmed, that no one could at present enter upon the investigation of any obscure or doubtful department of animal or vegetable production among the lower scries of these kingdoms of nature, without making especial reference to the views embodied in Steen- strup's generalisation. The occurrence of non-sexual multiplication among some of the Invertebrated animals had long been known, as of Polypes, by budding, so admirably described by Trembley in his work published in 1744 ; and of the Aphides, by internal production, discovered by Reaumur and Bonnet; and of the Nais and Nereis, by external extension, described by Otto F. Midler, in 1800; the imperfect conditions of some of the Entozoa had been detected by Nitsch and V. Baer in J818 : the two forms of the Salpae were known to Chamisso in 1819, who, more than any other observer, appears to have foreseen in these animals the discovery of alternate or dissimilar generations; but the first observations, from which the peculiar nature and general doctrine of the phenomena now under consideration may be regarded as having been deduced, are those of Sars, on the compound Polype stock of the Medusae, in 1828, and of Rud. Wagner, on the produc- tion of Medusiform bodies from a polype (Coryne aculeata), in 1833. From that time, observations followed one another in rapid succession, and continue still to crowd upon us, so as to have changed almost entirely the aspect in which we have been accustomed to regard the development of the lower animals : and it is only necessary to mention collec- tively the names of some of those whose observations have contributed most to extend and to establish these discoveries in different classes of animals, to exhibit the importance attached to them by zoologists, comparative anatomists, and physiologists of the highest character in our time, such as Dalyell, Lister, Sars, Loven, V. Siebold, Nordmann, Esch- richt, Steenstrup, Van Beneden, Kolliker, Owen, Dujardin, Milne Edwards, Blanchard, Quatrefages, J Ueid, J. Miiller, E. Forbes, Desor, Vogt, Ag;!ssiz, Huxley. The peculiar nature of these phenomena as compared with those of the better known and more common form of sexual generation, con- sists in this, that in some animals, in all of which, be it observed, the permanence of the species is secured by the sexual production of ova, the body or individual which is developed immediately from the ovum is not, in general, itself the bearer of the sexual organs, but, nevertheless, maintains for a time an inde- pendent existence, or presents the structural and functional characters of a separate or dis- tinct individual ; these characters often dif- fering remarkably from those of the sexual