10 OVUM. servers* placed in a glass flask an infusion of organic matter, a portion of which was known from comparative trials, w hen left exposed to the open air, soon to have animalcules deve- loped in it in great quantity, and he connected this vessel with a tubular apparatus, by two apertures, in such a manner that the air, which was made to pass frequently through the vessel containing the infusion, should be drawn through strong sulphuric acid, or potash solu- tion, before reaching it ; and Schwann "j" ar- ranged a similar experiment, having in view to secure the like conditions, by causing the air, which had access to the infusion, to be pre- viously passed through an iron tube at a red heat. Before the commencement of these experiments, the infusion and the apparatus were carefully subjected to the temperature of boiling-water, by which it was presumed the vitality of all ova, or germs, or other or- ganic particles must have been destroyed : and the result was the same in both the series of experiments, — viz., that, after a consider- able lapse of time, no animalcules nor con- fervoid plants were formed: but when the atmospheric air was afterwards allowed to pass freely over the same infusion, without being subjected to the processes before men- tioned, a rapid production of infusory ani- malcules took place in the usual manner. The results of these experiments appear to be on the whole satisfactory, and nearly to decide the question as far as relates to the probability of the introduction of the germs of Infusoria, &c, into infusions by the air. But, indeed, the failure of many experiments of this kind, when not performed with the most scrupulous accuracy, need not excite surprise, when the very indestructible nature of some kinds of infusory animalcules is con- sidered. It has long been known, and has been ascertained by the careful experiments of Spallanzani, Bauer, and Doyere, that some of the Rotifera and Tardigrada are capable of supporting a high temperature without loss of life, and of being kept for years even in the state of complete dryness, without loss of vitality: and, although it must be admitted that these animals differ greatly in their or- ganisation from the Polygastric Infusoria, and the latter appear to be very liable to destruc- tion from slight causes, yet it is possible that their germs may resist destruction in a greater degree than their adult forms: and, should only one of these animalcules, or its germ, be left in any situation favourable to its development, it is easily understood, from what is known of the production of these beings, with what rapidity a vast multitude of them may be brought into existence by their ordinary process of fissiparous increase. Most physiologists are inclined to reject as fanciful and inaccurate the alleged observa- tions of the actual conversion of particles of organised or organic matter into living in- * Poggendorff's Annalen, 1837, and Edin. New Phil. Journ. vol. xxiii. p. 165. ■\ In paper on Fermentation, &c. in Poggen- dorff's Annalen, 1837, p. 184. fusoria. At all events, statements of this kind are to be received with the greatest caution : such, for example, as the observa- tions stated to have been made by Pineau *, who affirms that he has seen the direct con- version of particles of disintegrating muscular fibre, isinglass, and wheat-flour, into various forms of living infusoria. The spermatic filaments also, which, so long as they were looked upon as independ- ent animals, were referred to as examples of an undoubted spontaneous generation, furnish no evidence in favour of that hypothesis in the view in which they are now regarded by physiologists : for they are to be considered rather as a peculiar product of organic growth within the spermatic cells, somewhat ana- logous to the fine moving processes of the ciliated texture, than as distinct organisms.-)- In so far, therefore, as the theory of spon- taneous generation may have been supposed to derive support from the formation of the lower forms of plants and animals in infusions of organic matter, that hypothesis must be considered as having lost the greater share of its probability, if, indeed, it has not been entirely disproved : but it must at the fame time be admitted that a more precise ac- quaintance with the nature of the germs from which these organisms take their origin is Still required to render the arguments derived from this source entirely conclusive. J The external and internal parasites which infest the bodies of almost all animals have in former times been held to afford a still stronger presumption in favour of sponta- neous generation than the production of in- fusoria ; but it will be found that in this instance, to a much greater extent than in the other, the probability of the view has gradu- ally passed away before the increasing know- ledge which modern research has afforded of the various modes of propagation of these animals. The ready communication of various Epi- zoa, or external parasites, from one animal to another is now well known, and accurate ob- servations have demonstrated that in almost all instances this communication may be traced to the implantation of ova, or pregnant individuals into their parasitic abode, as in the researches on the Sarcoptes scabiei, &c. The parasitic fungi, also, of various cuta- neous diseases, as tinea, porrigo, plica po- lonica, foul ulcers, &c. ; the yeast-plant, the vinegar-plant, and other minute fungi con- nected with fermentation ; the contagious algas of the batrachia and fishes ; the muscar- dine of the silkworm, are all well proved to be communicable by the deposit of their spores, or some part of their substance, upon the external surfaces of the bodies of the animals on which they grow, or by their intro- duction into cavities opening on the exterior. Alltheinternal parasites, orEntozoa strictly * Ann. d. Sc. Nat. March, 1845, p. 182. t See Article Semen. % Consult, especially, on the whole of this subject, Dajardin's Hist. Nat. des Infusoires, 1S42.