PELVIS. 14? turition, in being compensatory for the great curve of the pelvic axis, and the change of direction forward of the inferior from the superior outlet. This curve is dependent upon, and follows the curve of, the sacro-coccygeal column, which, being more acute and di- rected more forwards below, affords the chief support in the earlier months of pregnancy to the uterus and its contents, which lie in the axis of the superior outlet, which axis, as we have seen, impinges below upon the coccygeal bone. Now, the coccyx, being principally held up in its forward position by the clastic sciatic ligaments and by the resilient ischio- coccygeus and levator ani muscles, affords a resisting support which is at once powerful and yielding, and acts like an elastic spring in supporting the uterus and its delicate contents under the effects of accidental shock. The female coccyx is much more mobile at every age than the male, and when ankylosed to the sacrum it is less favourable both to pregnancy and labour. In the more advanced stages of pregnancy, however, the uterus rises into the abdominal cavity, and rests mainly upon the smooth concave surfaces of the pubes and the soft muscular margins of the pelvic brim, being embraced and supported above and in front by the abdominal muscles. To allow the great expansion of the uterine contents, the broad ventral notch and expanding iliac wings are dispositions of great significance. During labour, the foetal head enters the brim of the pelvis in the oblique diameter, which being less encroached on by the muscles is the best adapted to receive it, as well as by its correspondence in form to the brim in that direction. Then traversing the pelvic axis, it passes, first downwards and backwards, and then, being turned forwards by the sacro- coccygeal curve, escapes under the pubic arch and through the inferior outlet. The foetal occiput is directed generally in the left oblique diameter, towards the left ilio-pubic junction (in C9 per cent, of the cases — Naegele— to 80 per cent. — Boivin), and in its progress is twisted gradually forwards and towards the median line by the impingement of the parietal protuberance upon the inclined plane of the piriformis muscle and upon the projecting ischial spine, until it emerges under the sym- physis pubis, around which it turns vertically as round a centre ; the real centre of its motion, however, being, as we have before seen, a little in front of and below the pubis. The more anterior part of the fcetal head, then, traversing the circumference of the sub- pubic circle, extends the coccyx, and passes between the tuber ischii, distending the sacro- sciatic ligaments and perineum, and turning, as it does so, on its own transverse axis. In a well-formed woman, according to Naegele, the superior plane of the pelvis will be horizontal when the trunk is between the sitting and recumbent positions (i. e. when it forms an angle of 30° with the horizon). In such a position traction on the head of the child should be perpendicular. In sustaining these evolutions, the pelvic circle necessarily is exposed to a force not hitherto considered, viz. pressure from within. In well-formed pelves this pressure will be exerted equally on all parts of the circum- ference, from the adaptation, before mentioned, of the child's head to the form of the pelvis. The strain, however, will be most evidently exerted upon the ligaments of the pubic and sacro-Uiac sympliyses. The question whether these ligaments yielded during labour sufficiently to enlarge materi- ally the diameters of the pelvis, is one which has attracted the attention of anatomists and obstetricians very much, particularly about the latter end of last century, when M. Sigault proposed, in lieu of the Caesarian section, the section of the symphysis pubis, with a view of affording greater pelvic diameters. Among the older writers on this subject Mauriceau, Peu, Lamotte, Vesalius, Varan- dens, Menard, and Voigt denied that separa- tion of the pubic bones occurred during labour. Some believed it to occur only in young primiparous females ; others in primiparous females of advanced age ; and others again only in pelvic distortions or peculiar circum- stances of pregnancy. Ambrose Pare, Pineus, Bauhineus Riveanus, Diemerbroek, Arniseus, Bianchi, Gregoire Pineau, Duvernay, Bertin, Levret, Santorini, Spigelius, and Smellie, have observed this se- paration in the dead parturient woman ; and Guillemeau, Hildanus, Van Solingen, Ves- lingius, Puzos, Soumain, Bikker, Arnauld, and Morgagni in the living subject. Pare and Peu asserted that they had seen cases where the ilia had been separated from the sacrum; and Smellie relates a case where great pain at the sacro-iliac joints rendered this probable. Of those who admit that relaxation of the ligaments and consequent separation do take place, Boivin, Louis, Severin, Pineau, and Meckel consider it to depend upon softening, thickening, and loosening of a single inter- pubic fibro-cartilage, and deposition of fluid in its meshes ; Meckel with Antoine Petit, deny- ing the frequent existence of a separation be- tween two plates of cartilage. ButTenon found, that although, in most cases, the inter-pubic fibro-cartilage was single in the male, in woman it was generally double, and contained a slit or cavity, with no connecting fibrous tissue between the middle of the plates. And he found this to be the case in the young as well as the old, and before pregnancy as well as after ; sometimes the slit was capillary, but in one female, recently delivered, the cavity would admit the forefinger. In none of his examinations did he find any thickening, soften- ing, or laxity of the fibro-cartilage itself, how- ever recent the accouchment, although the external investing ligaments of the joint were relaxed and elongated. He considers, that if in females where but one fibro-cartilaginous plate is present, separation of the bones occurs during labour, it must be by rupture of the fibres of the disc or its separation from the bone. It is, however, difficult to comprehend