REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 248 separated from each other by as many vertical septa, meeting at right angles. Each corp'us- culum is likewise surrounded on all sides by a single layer of cellules resembling pavement epithelium, and exhibits in its interior a nu- cleus which is usually placed at its superior extremity. After some time the nucleus dis- appears, and now a number of transparent vesicles become visible, which accumulate for the most part towards the extremities of the corpusculum. Fig. 188. repeated division of the four inferior terminal cells, partly by the interstitial growth of those first formed. Soon it bursts through the Corpusculum of the same in section, immediately he- fore impregnation, 200 diam. Its cavity is filled with transparent vesicles, and bounded superiorly by four granular cells, the position and relations of which recal very forcibly the arrangement which presents itself in the rudimentary archegonium among the higher Cryptogamia. 104. The growth of the pollen tube, which has been for many months arrested, at last re- commences ; the membrane of the summit of the embryo-sac at the same time becomes attenuated, and immediately after is pene- trated by the narrowed end of the pollen tube, which is brought into immediate con- tact with the summit of the corpusculum, the four cells which previously surmounted it having disappeared. At this time, the corpus- culum exhibits in its interior, at the end oppo- site the pollen tube, a single vesicle, much larger than those by which it is surrounded, within which is afterwards developed a se- condary cell, occupying more than half its cavity. This cell, which is convex above, is applied by a flattened inferior surface against the wall of the corpusculum. It soon divides by a longitudinal septum into two, each of which is nucleated. These two cells, which occur throughout the Couiferae, form the commencement of the suspensor. They next divide by a second pair of vertical septa, at right angles to the first; and in each of the four cells which result, a succession of hori- zontal septa are formed, by which they are converted into four vertical columns inti- mately united to each other. The suspensor lengthens in one direction only, partly by the Corpusculum of the same, 120 diam. The four cells by which it is bounded superiorly have disappeared. The pollen tube is still in contactj by its flattened extremity with the corpusculum, and by the rest of its surface with the cells of the albuminous body, a, 300 diam. Earlier stage of development of lower end of the same. A single germ-cell is applied to its wall. b, 300 diam. Division of germ-cell into four by two vertical septa, of which one only can be seen on section, c and d, 250 diain. Division of the four resulting cells by a succession of transverse septa. Above d are two of the numerous com- plexes of cells, which at this time float in num- bers in the corpusculum. (From fig. 172 to 189 inclusive, are after Hofmeister). membrane of the corpusculum at its lower end, and becomes immersed in the tissue which occupies the embryo sac, the cells of which, at the same time, become less intimately united than before. The four series of cells of which the suspensor is formed, now separate, and, from the terminal cell of each, the rudi- ment of an embryo takes its origin. Its development commences, like that of the embryos of theHepaticae and of the first leaves of the Ferns and Equisetaceae.by therepeated formation of alternately inclined septa in a terminal cell; these being followed by vertical septa radiating from the axis, and, subse- quently by others parallel to the external surface. Of the four embryos thus formed, one only advances to vigorous maturity. 105. Pharierogamia angiospermia.—The ob- servations on record relating to the origin and development of the embryo among these plants are now so numerous, that although the conditions are much more complicated, and the difficulties in themselves much greater, we are, notwithstanding, more competent to draw our conclusions with confidence than we have found ourselves to be in our previous study of the Cryptogamia. Among the many examples at our disposal, we select two of the simplest, between which, at the same time, great differences present themselves in those respects in which the development is variable.