STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 367 sistence of the faeces being such* as to mould thein to the cylindrical form of the last-named portion of tube through which they have to pass—still it occurs so frequently in Man, and so universally in many of those Herbivora in whom we can best study the phenomena of a highly developed large intestine, as to afford a valuable testimony to the natural action of this part. It is therefore difficult to avoid believing, that the individual sacculi of the colon, or at least of its later segments, retain the faeces for a considerable period of time; during which they so far complete the action of the large intestine upon these its contents, as to leave nothing for its remaining segments to effect, save their mechanical propulsion to- wards the outlet of the canal. To this inter- mittent action of the muscular coat in respect of time, we may probably add a similar inter- ruption as regards space. In other words, the interrupted and irregular manner in which the sacculi are often occupied by solid fasces, entitles us to suspect, that different lengths of the intestine can act independently of each other. But it is difficult to hazard a con- jecture as to whether the contraction of the falciform transverse folds ever really shuts off' portions of the tube into distinct cavities. The central axis of the figured evacuation is, however, often so slender, or even interrupted, as remarkably to corroborate such a view. And some authors have assumed that the caecum, during its digestive act, is isolated from the ascending colon by a vigorous con- traction of that large fold which is prolonged from the frcena (or anterior and posterior extremities) of the ilio-caecal valve.f The little information afforded us by direct observation on the movements of the intestine, confirms what is thus vaguely suggested by the appearances of its expelled contents. The highly developed large intestine of the living or newly-killed rabbit, rarely exhibits any noticeable movement whatever, when first ex- posed to the air. By and bye, however, a kind of irregular peristalsis comes on. But this is nowhere quite so energetic as that seen under similar circumstances in the small intestine j * The consistence of even a figured evacuation is sometimes so slight, as to render it highly probable, that a general relaxation of that segment of in- testine which originally contained the faecal mass lias accompanied the propulsive contraction of the part immediately behind it. Such an apparently co-ordinate relaxation of the muscular coat may be frequently noticed in that vermicular movement of the small intestine which is seen shortly after death. An occurrence of this kind seems almost the only way in which one can account for the fact, that soft and semifluid fa;ces frequently retain the form of the colon, after passing through its falciform folds. Whether such an action is ever effected by a contraction of the longitudinal bands simultaneously with a relaxation of the circular or falciform folds, it is impossible to determine. But from their mechanism, and from the above appear- ances of the faeces, it would seem more probable that, both these classes of fibres relax simultaneously. f Energetic contraction of the transverse fibres of this valve would obviously aid in its occlusion ; though we have already shown it to be probably independent of all active muscular force. and is generally very feeble in the caecum.* And in this movement, as in that produced by mere local irritation, we may notice the peculiar character before attributed to the contraction of unstriped muscle generally ;— viz., that of diffusing itself over a time and space greater than those occupied by the irritation which has excited it. As regards the details of this vermicular action, certain sacculi contract and dilate alternately ; the transverse constrictions between them shar- ing in the same movement. This alternate movement is often accompanied by an irregular contraction of the longitudinal bands; which is sometimes carried to such an extent, as to shorten the tube, by approximating and di- lating certain of its cells. And even where the effect of the local irritation survives its cause, so as to excite a continuous movement which proceeds along a considerable length of intes- tine, still it rarely affects all the cells of the bowel exactly alike; but often passes lightly over one or two, to bear with increased inten- sity on those which immediately succeed them. Very similar movements are produced by galvanizing the solar plexus which gives off the nerves to the large intestine. On the whole, therefore, the greater solidity of the contents of the large intestine implies a greater resistance to the contraction of its muscular coat. And the structure of this coat shows no proportionate increase, but rather a decrease of strength. Hence we might almost conjecture, that the general movement of the small intestine is here ex- changed for one which is slower, feebler, and hence less effective : and which, besides being much weaker, is possibly interrupted by- longer periods of rest.f But it is probable that this comparatively feeble character of the general movement of the large intestine is capable of being more than compensated by that heightened efficacy which the peculiar arrangement of its mus- cular coat can concede. The thin muscular stratum that forms the wall of its numerous pouches, is evidently capable of assuming a much smaller surface, in obedience to the thick and powerful bands of its transverse and longitudinal coats. Indeed, the simul- taneous contraction of these two sets of fibres would convert them into what would form, for the time, a very thick and powerful expanse of unstriped muscle, capable of ob- literating the entire calibre of the intestine. In this way the same muscular apparatus * The contractions by wbich this part responds to a local stimulus are far more feeble, slow, and uncertain, than those obtained in any other part of the canal,—the stomach not excepted. This character seems to be a direct result of the tenuity of the muscular coat, which also attains its maximum here. An incident which I have remarked in one or two cases of intestinal obstruction appears to be partly explained by the same structural peculiarity. In these instances, though the stricture was seated in the descending colon, the dilatation and rupture that formed the immediate cause of death occupied the caecum. * t Compare pp. 343, 344,