UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 654- vations, and between these much smaller cup- like or conical depressions, which are seen by transmitted light to lead, where the membrane is thinnest, directly into the apertures ob- servable on the inner surface. At the thin- nest points of all, these apertures are so wide, and the cup-like depressions so shallow, that the part has the appearance of a net, the meshes of which still consist of the enlarged orifices of the utricular glands. Hence the epithet " lace-like," often applied to the de- cidua in this condition. The roughness of the dorsal surface of this, the parietal decidua, is occasioned by the membrane having been torn away from its connexion with the muscular coat of the uterus, in the act of abortion. The club-like projections are apparently the bases or blind ends of the hypertrophied utricular glands torn out entire from the substance in which they were previously embedded. When laid open, they are found to contain a small cavity. The cup-like depressions are the halves, or portions of similar, perhaps smaller glands, torn across, so as to leave other portions still attached to the uterus. The meshes are simply the orifices of such glands and of the channels leading to them. At this and subsequent stages there may be often seen lying within and among these orifices, fine, thread-like ramified filaments, which some physiologists suppose to be utri- cular glands, or their epithelial lining, now becoming loosened out and falling away, — a view in which my own observations do not enable me to coincide. See fig. 451. Fig. 451. seen, more or less distinctly, in the decidua throughout pregnancy, but are most conspi- cuous near the margins of the placenta. Fie. 452. External surface of the decidua vera, from an ovum of about two months; showing the oblique channels in its substance. {After Schrceder van der Kolk.~) a a a, filaments supposed to be the loosened utricu- lar glands ( ?) As pregnancy advances to the third and fourth months, the uterine chamber expands, the decidua which lines it increases in thick- ness in parts to 3—4'", and becomes at the same time more spongy, so that upon section it appears to be composed of flattened spaces or cells, communicating together by wide valvular orifices. These are best seen by- examining under water the rough surface of an aborted ovum at that period, or the corresponding portion of the uterus from which it had been torn off. (Fig. 452.) These cells, or areolar spaces, continue to be Surface of the decidua vera more advanced. {After Schrceder van der Kolk.) It is here represented as still attached to the walls of the uterus after the chorion, together with a layer of the decidua, have been peeled off from it. From a uterus at the sixth month of pregnane}', just beyond the margin of the placenta. The orifices and canals are much wider than in the first figure. They are still divisions of the same ramified canals, or uterine glands, which have been described as found everywhere in the lining membrane of the uterus before impregnation, Jig. 438., but now become so dilated and tor- tuous as scarcely to be recognisable as the same structures.* In the latter months of pregnancy, the parietal decidua becomes thinner, and loses much of its spongy character, except imme- diately around the placenta, where this is still most distinct. It ultimately becomes blended with the outer surface of the fcetal membranes, and is partly thrown off with them in the act of birth, while a part remains, form- ing a honeycomb layer, attached to the uterine muscular coat. If next the growth of the decidua refiexa, or decidua ovu/i, be traced, this will be found to undergo a development corresponding with that of the ovum, which it encloses and pro- tects. The little chamber containing the ovum, which, as already stated, usually occu- pies a situation near one of the upper uterine angles (j%.450.), although it may also be found near the lower orifice ( Hunter, " Gravid Uterus," pi. 3i.,Jig. 4.), or elsewhere, appears at first like a small superadded cavity upon the outside of the larger one, or that formed by the parietal decidua. But as the development pro- ceeds, the foetal protrudes gradually into the uterine chamber, in the form of an incomplete sphere, whose upper pole rises free into the * The four figures 450, 451, 452, and 453., show- ing the decidua or lining membrane of the uterus in different stages of development during pregnancy, should be compared with figs. 438, 439. and 443., which exhibit the same structure in different con- ditions of the unimpregnated state. These struc- tures form a developmental series, the individual stages of which are often dislocated from their true and natural sequence by the employment of terms calculated to give an impression that the parts spoken of are different in structure and composition. " Mucous or lining membrane of the uterus," " Lymph," and " Decidua," when so employed, should be read as convertible terms representing the same part in different stages of development.