EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. 709 / z 3 becomes covered with hair. Along the line of apposition of the two labia, where the rima is formed, the hair and integument cease, and the mucous membrane common to the rest of the generative canal commences. From this point inwards the surface of the labium is smooth, of a reddish or pink colour, and is here furnished with numerous muciparous and sebaceous follicles, which bedew the parts with an odorous secretion, and preserve their constant moisture. The labia are united above by a slight frenulum, termed the ante- rior commissure, while below they are con- nected, at the anterior margin of the perineum, by a broader posterior commissure. When the parts are here drawn asunder, a second fold appears within the former, just below the entrance of the vagina. The transverse boat- shaped furrow between these constitutes the fossa navicularis. Beneath the cutaneous and mucous covering of the labia is (bund a layer of dartoid tissue, the rest of their substance being formed ofloose fibrous and adipose tissue. The labia represent the scrotum, which in the early foetus is divided into two halves. A raphe indicates in the male the line of their subsequent confluence. In the female the two halves remain permanently separate. The normal descent of the testis into the scrotum in the male, about the seventh month of intra-uterine life, is represented by the ab- normal descent of the ovary into the labia of the female which constitutes ovarian ingui- nal hernia. (See p. 574.) When the labia are drawn asunder, the clitoris, the vestibule, nymphas, and vaginal orifice are brought into view. The Clitoris (figs. 481. and 482.), in general form and composition, resembles, on a diminutive scale, the penis, but it is deficient in some of the parts which compose the latter organ. The clitoris lies in the upper part of the vulvar fissure, concealed between the labia, and encased in a fold of mucous mem- brane, the lower border of which forms a hood or prepuce ( prcputium clitoridis) (fig. 480.pc), that terminates just above the superior com- missure of the nympha?, and allows the ex- tremity only of the organ to appear. When this covering is removed, the clitoris is seen to consist of the following parts : viz. a small imperforate elans (fig. 481. c), com- posed of spongy erectile tissue, and covered by a highly sensitive mucous membrane, which is abundantly supplied with nerves; this terminates the free extremity of the organ : a body (fig. 481. b), consisting of two cor- pora cavernosa, united along the median line, and invested by a fibrous tunic. The body extends upwards and backwards to a point a little above the centre of the pubic arch. Here it makes a sudden downward curve, and, after dividing into two crura, is attached by these beneath the iscio-pubic rami of either side. Opposite the point of curvature, a flat- tened suspensory ligament attaches the body of the clitoris to the pubic symphysis. Two ischio-cavernous muscles (erectores chlorides), composed of striped muscular fibre, are in- serted into the crura. They have the same relations, and, according to Kobelt, are fully as long as in the male (fig. 483. n). Blood-vessels. — Two dorsal arteries (fig. 481. K), running along the upper surface of the Fig. 481. The clitoris (enlarged 4 diameters.) (After Kobelt.) a, body ; b, angle or curvature ; c, glans; d, vena dorsalis; e, superficial veins emerging from the root of the glans, and f g, veins of deeper origin. These transmit the blood to the vena dorsalis; h, dorsal artery; Hi, dorsal nerves; /.', the venous plexus, termed pars intermedia (shown also at d, fig. 482., and e,Jig. 483.); /, communicating venous branch between the glans clitoridis and pars inter- media; in, ascending venous canals proceeding from the pars intermedia (k) to the under surface of the body of the clitoris; nn and o, lateral branches of communication between the vessels last named and the vena dorsalis; /(.veins from the labia, and r, from the riympha' and frenulum clitoridis, which enter the pars intermedia; q, arterial branches cor- responding with the pars intermedia and commu- nicating veins; s, frenulum clitoridis. clitoris, supply the glans, from which the blood is again collected by superficial veins, emerging from the root of the glans at e, and by others having a deeper origin at f. These transmit the blood to the vena dorsalis, d. From the cavernous bodies the blood is also collected by a series of vascular canals, of which an account will be presently given. Nerves.— The clitoris is richly endowed with nerves, i i, which arc relatively three or four times larger than those of the penis. They pass along the sides of the clitoris, each dividing usually into three branches, the ulti- mate ramifications of which lose themselves