263 RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. s 4 is not the result of atmospheric pressure, nor of the action of the thoracic inspiratory mus- cles : it is due to the elastic property of the cartilaginous pieces. A "membranous inter- val " in the walls of the intra-pulmonary bronchi would obviously expose the air-pas- sages to injurious pressure. The muscular fibres which always belong to the unstriped kind in this class of bronchial tube are ar- ranged chiefly circularly, but partly longi- tudinally. They are thus enabled, not only to contract the calibre, but to diminish the length, acting, therefore, as important expiratory powers. As the dissector advances towards the branches of the " bronchial tree," the cartila- ginous fragments in the walls of the tubes be- come thinner and smaller, and more and more distantly placed, until eventually they cease altogether, the walls of the tubes being com- posed of nothing but fibro-membrane. Here the tubes are maintained in the open state in part by the expansive force of the contained column of air. The collapse of these pas- sages leads to the atalectasis of that portion of the lung to which they lead. At this point the gravest impediment to respiration, in bronchitis, occurs; here also is chiefly seated the obstacle to expiration in some forms of emphysema; and these musculo- membranous tubules are the scene of spasm during the paroxysms of spasmodic asthma. The parietes of the bronchial tubes Fig. 208. A suction of a minutely injected piece of human lung. (After RaineyJ) The section cuts longitudinally a branching bronchial tube. At a, the ciliated epithelium of this tube is seen to terminate by an abruptly de- lined border, illustrating the doctrine held by Mr. Rainey, which contends for the complete absence of all epithelium from all parts of the lung beyond this limit, b marks the sudden manner in which the intercellular passages arise from the extreme bronchi. within the substance of the lungs bear glands like those of the trachea, and, like the latter, they are lined internally by a ciliated cylinder epithelium. This epithelium terminates, by abruptly-defined borders, at the commence- ment of the true pulmonary tissue, (a) This fact was first shown by Mr. Rainey*: subsequent observers have, however, proved, contrary to the opinion of Mr. Rainey, that the epithelial layer does not wholly cease at these points (/>). It is prolonged over the respiratory segment under the character of pavement-epithelium. The true bronchi, in every part of the lung, are distinguished by their tubular form and smooth walls (a, h) — characters in which they contrast with the loculated aspect of the in- tercellular passages. The walls of the minutest bronchi are composed of three coats: a mucous, a mus- cular, and fibrous. Schroeder van der Kolk has proved that unstriped muscular fibres are contained in the parietes of the smallest of these tubes. The illustrations which accom- Fig. 209. 7 I ^ ^~§jf i i j c c Sub-mucous tissue from a small bronchial tube hi the human lung. (After Hurting.') a, a, a, elastic longitudinal fibres blended with muscular bauds; b,b, muscular fascicles disposed circularly; c, c, extremities of the same, showing the absence of tendons. pany the theses of Adrius Adriani are drawn by S. van der Kolk himself, from his own microscopic dissections. In the whale, the structural elements of the walls of the smallest bronchial tubes are of very large dimensions, and therefore readily to be detected. The muscular fibrillae are principally dis- posed circularly (h, c, b, c) ; and the elastic («, a, a), longitudinally. During the ingress of the respiratory column of air into the lungs, both these orders of fibres must be stretched ; during the egress of the air, the one must actively contract, the other must passively recoil. This constitutes an expiratory force. It is important to re- member that these two elements continue to prevail in the parietes of the bronchi as long as they retain the character of bronchi pro- perly so called—in other words, to the limits everywhere which denote the origins of the intercellular passages. At this point the muscular element ceases altogether ; so also does the ciliated epithelium; but the elastic * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii., 1845.