SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 465 Longet, on repeating the experiments of Valen- tin, failed to observe any contractions, and concludes that Valentin must have irritated the pneumogastric as well as the sympathetic. It is only (according to Longet) when the pneumogastric or spinal nerves are irritated, that such contractions ensue ; and, moreover, section of the eighth pair is attended by com- plete paralysis of the oesophagus. Stomach.—The stomach, like the oesopha- gus, is supplied by branches of the pneumo- gastric and sympathetic. Irritation of the for mer is almost always followed by con- tractions in this organ. Irritation of the splanchnic nerves, or of the semilunar gan- glion, according to Longet*, produces no such effect. Valentin, on the other hand, found that stimulus applied to the main cord of the sympathetic in the neck, or to the in- ferior thoracic ganglia, in the rabbit, gives rise to contractions in this organ. Volkmannf has also found that when the stimulus of the electro-magnetic rotation apparatus is applied to the thoracic portion of the sympathetic in the cat it gives rise to powerful peristaltic movements in the stomach. He also observed still more lively contractions excited in the stomach of a young dog when the same sti- mulus as in the previous experiment was applied to the sympathetic cord in the thorax, or to the greater or smaller splanchnic nerves before they enter the semilunar ganglion. It would seem, therefore, that, besides the motor filaments which are sent to the stomach by the pneumogastric, it also receives others through the medium of the sympathetic. As regards the movements of the small intestine, &c, it is almost invariably excited to contraction by irritation of the splanchnic nerves or semilunar ganglion. After the movements produced in the intestine by the stimulus of the air, acting upon them when the cavity of the abdomen is laid open, have subsided, contractions extending over the greater part of the gut may still be produced, as was first shown by MiiUer, by application of chemical irritants, such as potash, to the solar plexus. According to Valentin, the move- ments produced by irritation of the splanchnic nerves are chiefly confined to the duodenum and upper part of the jejunum, while irritation of the solar plexus, on the other hand, is fol- lowed by contractions which extend over the whole of the small intestine. Irritation of the sympathetic cord in the thorax as high up as the fifth or sixth ganglion, and also in the lum- bar region, gives rise, according to Valentin, to distinct contractions in the small intestine, while stimulus applied to the lumbar and sacral portions acts very energetically upon the great intestine and rectum. The influence of the sympathetic over the movements of the intestines is also shown by the observation of Valentin that when the branches which pass along the mesentery are irritated, con- tractions are produced in the particular por- tions of the intestine to which they are dis- * Op. cit. p. C09. + Mailer's Archiv. 1845, p. 414., &c. Supp. tributed, while the rest of the gut remains quite motionless. Budge observed that movements were ex- cited in the ccecum of the rabbit when the trunk of the vagus-nerve in the neck was stimulated by means of the electro-magnetic rotation apparatus. As in the case of the heart, so also in regard to the intestinal canal, stimuli applied to the central nervous masses have been ob- served to exercise a greater or less influence in exciting contractions in the intestine. In animals newly killed, Valentin has fre- quently observed movements produced in the intestines by division of the anterior and pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves. In such experiments, however, it is difficult to ascer- tain whether the contraction be due to the stimulus applied to the nerves, or whether it may not be owing to the stimulus of the air acting directly on the intestines them- selves. The application of galvanic stimulus leads to more decisive results. When, ac- cording to Valentin*, the wires of the mag- neto-electric apparatus are applied to the corpora quadrigemina or medulla oblongata, lively contractions are excited in the stomach and intestine. Contractions were also pro- duced in the small intestine, great intestine, and rectum, by application of the same stimulus to the spinal cord. In Cyprinus tinea, Weber has shown that very powerful contractions may be excited in the stomach by application of the wires of the electro- magnetic rotation apparatus to the posterior part of the cerebellum or to the medulla oblongata. The same stimulus applied to the spinal cord in the animal above mentioned, as also in dogs, he observed to be followed by movements in the intestinal canal. From the experiments of Valentin it ap- pears that the movements which are excited in the intestinal canal by stimulus applied to the central masses of the nervous system, are not produced through the medium of the pneumogastric alone. In a rabbit which had been bled to death, and in which the ab- dominal muscles were removed without injuring the peritoneum, he found, when the wires of the magneto-electric apparatus were inserted into the cerebellum, that very lively movements ensued in the small intestine, al- though the two vagi nerves had been pre- viously divided in the neck. Budge, how- ever, finds that it is only when the two vagi nerves have been left that movements can be excited in the ccecum of the rabbit by appli- cation of the galvanic stimulus to the medulla oblongata. The constipation and tympanitis which frequently attend diseases of the spinal cord, in like manner indicate that the central masses of the nervous system exercise a cer- tain influence over the movements of the intestinal canal. These movements, however, like those of the heart, still continue after the brain and spinal cord have been destroyed. Bidder, as * Op. cit. p. 46G., Sec. u a