UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 718 devoid of symmetry ; from all parts of their .surface spring numerous short pullulations, which render them knotty and uneven. Every villus is composed of two distinct parts, viz. an outer leathery sheath, and an inner softer and vascular structure, which is contained within the former like a finger en- cased in a glove. The distinction between these two structures is not easily observed, except in parts where the outer sheath has been accidentally broken off', leaving the more pulpy internal substance exposed. Or in cases where the placenta has become stale by keep- ing for a few days, when the inner portion by shrinking has retired from the end of the vil- lus, so that a small interspace has been here left (fig. 485. b). When a terminal tuft so prepared is viewed by transmitted light, under slight compression, the outer case is seen to consist of a trans- parent non-vascular structureless membrane, embedded in the substance, or attached to the inner surface of which are numerous flattened spheroidal cells, forming generally a single layer. In the apex of a growing tuft, or forming a distinct bud projecting from its extremity, may be often observed a group of similar cells which appear to be passing off from a spot in the centre of the mass.* These cells perform important parts in the growth and offices of the villi, which will be presently noticed. The internal portion (Jig. 485. b) consists of a soft and pulpy structure which envelopes the blood-vessels of the villi. In its substance also are embedded numerous cells of a similar nature to those observed in the structure- less sheath. Termination of the fcetal vessels. — The ar- rangement and terminal divisions of the blood- vessels within the villi varies considerably according to the age of the placenta. The following distribution is observed from the third to the sixth month ( fig. 485. a). Each villus contains one or more arteries and veins, together with numerous capillaries. The ar- teries pass up the centre of the stem, and divide into branches according to the number of the terminal subdivisions. Within these the branches split up into numerous capilla- ries, which present various forms of arrange- ment, in some parts resembling Malpighian bodies, and in others the arrangement of pul- monic capillaries. From these capillaries the blood is collected by veins which pass back through the tufts accompanying the corre- sponding arteries. All these vessels, with their subdivisions, are enveloped and sup- ported by the pulpy granular substance that forms the interior of every villus (fig. 585. b). Towards the end of pregnancy, the true capillaries of the villi gradually disappear, so that in a placenta at term the blood-vessels present the condition accurately described by C. H. Weber and Goodsir. A single vessel generally enters each terminal tuft, and after * J. Goodsir. Anatomical and Pathological Ob- servations, 1815. Fig. 485. a, terminal villus of a foetal tuft, from a placenta of six months. The arteries, veins, and capillaries are minutely injected. The latter, which disappear towards the end of gestation, are here very abun- dant. The arteries and veins occupy the centre, and the capillaries the surface, of the tuft, immediately beneath the non-vascular sheath. The nucleated non-vascular sheath is shown at b, separated from the internal softer structure in which the vessels ramify. (Ad Nat.) forming an open loop, it returns again, either dividing within the villus, or leaving it as it entered. Or a single vessel may enter, and retire from two or more villi, before it termi- nates in a principal vein. Many modifications occur in the forms of the loops, which may be simple, compound, wavy, or much contorted, and in parts varicose.* Such, then, are the structures belonging to the fetus which are brought into contact with the maternal blood in the interior of the pla- centa, viz. the portion of chorion that forms the floor of the placenta, and the tufts or villi which spring from its surface. The office of the former is simply mechanical in confining the maternal blood to its proper course, and preventing rupture of the organ ; the latter constitutes the potential portion of the pla- centa. On the other hand, the sole parts belonging to the mother, the existence of which can be anatomically demonstrated in the substance of the placenta, are formed out of the decidua. The decidua.—A general description of this membrane, as it forms the roof of the placenta, and sends off dissepiments into its substance, has been already given. It only remains to * These are the only terminations of the foetal vessels of the placenta which have been hitherto described. The true capillary system disappears towards the end of gestation, and apparently, on this account, has escaped the attention of observers, as far as I am aware, except Schrceder van der Kolk, who, in his recent work, has described and figured them in a placenta of three months. Scanzoni also (Lehrbuch der Geburtshilfe,_/?9. 99.) reproduces the figure of Meckel and Gierse, in which the capilla- ries have evidently been injected ; but this is given as an example characteristic of a dropsical placenta, and not as representing a normal state.