UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 584 So far, therefore, as these analyses may be hairs, some two feet in length, and matted taken to represent the ordinary composition together in locks. Besides these the sac con- of the more fluid contents of ovarian cvsts, it tained several irregular portions of bone, some may be concluded that the action performed of large size. In one of these were fixed six in these cases by the walls of the cyst is the molars and one incisor tooth, completely separation from the blood chiefly of the watery formed. The inner surface of the sac was and saline ingredients, with the exception of beset with short hairs. alkaline phosphates, whilst the albumen is only The composition of these cysts, and espe- in part removed, and none of the fibrine. cially of their lining membrane, will in a great Examined by the microscope, the more measure account for the differences which are fluid contents of ovarian C3'sts frequently ex- observable in their progress and mode of hibit flocculi, composed of patches of epi- growth. The dropsical cysts are closely allied thelium, more or less united together by gra- in their nature to serous membranes, and, like nular matter. When gelatiniform they often these in a morbid condition, they possess the contain faint oval corpuscles, or a few primi- power of separating and collecting into their tive corpuscles. Occasionally an opalescent cavities the thinner constituents of the blood, or opaque creamy appearance is communicated And as the only apparent limit to this process to the jelly by the formation of pus corpuscles is the resistance offered by the walls of the or minute granules, and sometimes the con- sac, and the parts external to them, so the tents are wholly filamentous, and mixed with distensibility of these, and the capacity of the granular cells and other products of inflam- walls of the cyst to meet the increasing pres- mation. This jelly-like matter, when consist- sure by a correlative hypertrophy of its tis- ent, presents all the characters of coagulated sues, will determine the form, size, and general liquor sanguinis, which has not yet passed into condition of the tumour. But the non-malig- organisation. Acetic acid develops in it, or nant cysts, whose contents are of a more solid causes to be precipitated a white membrane nature, and possess a higher organisation, are having all the characters of fibrous tissue, tegumentary in their character. Their con- Frequently granules, cells, and filaments may tents are chiefly tegumental products, which, be observed in it in various stages, as is the once formed, have attained the limit of their case with recent exudations from the serous growth. Such cysts, therefore, are more sta- membranes, or in other simple forms of hya- tionary in their character; or if occasionally line blastema.* they approach in bulk the watery cysts, as in Hydatids contained in Ovarian Cysts. — A the example just quoted, this arises mainly very perfect example of this rare affection from the addition of a fluid secretion, and of the ovary (originally in the possession of the necessity for circumscribing it by hyper- Dr. Hooper) is contained in the Pathological trophy of the walls. But more often the Museum of King's College. It is the largest cysts with solid contents, if they do not re- specimen of ovarian disease in that collection, main passive, contract adhesions with sur- and consists of an immense aggregation of rounding viscera, and by the aid of fistulous compound thin-walled cysts, of the second openings discharge their harder parts, such and third order, many of the latter being as bones, through the nearest natural orifice, stuffed full of hydatids. Several of these The tegumentary character of these cysts have fallen out of the cysts, and lie loosely at has been clearly shown by Cruveilhier*, Kohl- the bottom of the glass. They are of the form rausch f, Lebertj;, and Paget. § "Upon their and average size of pigeons' eggs, and possess inner surface is produced a growth of skin, the usual characteristics of Acephalocysts. with its layer of cutis, subcutaneous fat, epi- (Barren echinococcus vesicles ?) Compara- dermis, and all the minute appended organs of tively few cases of this form of ovarian disease the proper hairy integument of the body;" are on record. whence the term "dermoid cysts." It is pos- The solid Contents of Ovarian Cysts.—These sible that at the commencement of their for- consist of fatty matter, hair, teeth, and bones, mation such cysts may have a general tegu- Cysts containing such materials are termed mentary lining, a part or the whole of which dermoid cysts. They rarely grow with the may afterwards become obliterated. For in the rapidity, or attain the enormous bulk com- condition in which they generally come under monly observed in those with fluid or hydatid our notice, the tegumentary structure is con- contents. That such cysts may, however, fined to patches of the lining membrane, while sometimes equal in size those of a more sim- in many the hair is found entirely detached pie character, is shown by a remarkable ex- and lying in the form of a loose ball in the ample described by Blumenbach. (- A girl centre of a smooth-walled sac. aged 17 had a swelling of the left ovary, which Sebaceous and Sudor'qiarous Glands have after 21 years' growth measured four ells in been shown by Kohlrausch and Heschl to be circumference, and reached below the knees, present in these cysts, where they have the Death occurred at the age of 38, when the same general arrangement as in the skin sac of the ovary alone weighed 14 lbs., and (Jig. 397. c). contained also 40 lbs. of a thick, fatty, honey- Fatty Matter. — This occurs under two like substance, mixed with short and long forms : first, as a loose granular fatty sub- * Dr. J. H. Bennett on Encysted Tumours of the * Anat. Pathol, torn. i. livr. xviii. Ovary and Pelvis, Edin. Bled, and Surg. Joum. No. t Midler's Archiv. 18-Ui, p. 305. 167. j Traite d'Anat. Pathol. t Medicin. Biblioth. bd. i. s. 152. § Lectures, vol. ii. p. 83.