75 OVUM. half of the diameter of the whole ovule. In the progress of growth, it enlarges some- what, but only in the earlier periods, and in less proportion than the yolk, and undergoes no farther increase during the greater part of the time that the yolk acquires the greatest addition of new matter. It is worthy of remark, however, that the germinal vesicle is originally of a large size in the eggs of birds and other large-yolked ova ; that it is also of very considerable size, even proportionally larger, in the batrachia ; and that in mammalia, and other animals with the smaller and gra- nular yolk, its size bears in general a propor- tion to that of the yolk. The substance of the yolk appears, in the first place, to be simply granular, or to be composed entirely of minute molecules such as those which always form the yolk in mam- malia. These are united together by a some- what glairy fluid ; larger spherules gradually appear among them ; and next the distinction between the substance of the proligerous disc and of the yolk cavity becomes apparent. Lastly, 'the deep-coloured yolk corpuscles are produced, layer after layer being deposited from the exterior, so that the outermost are the last formed. Externally a closer-set layer of nucleated cells covers the surface, in con- nection with which the vitelline membrane is formed. The vitelline membrane is not formed at an early period in the bird's egg: it cannot indeed be perceived in ovula of a tenth of an inch in diameter. We shall presently see that its relations and mode of formation are peculiar in the bird's egg. Morphology of the bird's egg as ascertained from its first origin and development. — The ovaries of the common fowl, and indeed of most large birds, are less favourable for the investigation of the first origin and earliest condition of the ovule, than those of the smaller tribes; this arises, not so much from the dense structure of the ovary in the undeveloped state, as from the great opa- city produced in the ovules themselves, almost from the first, by the deposit of thick-set yolk granules. In some of the smaller singing birds, the thrush, yellow-hammer, or chaf- finch, the parts are clearer and more trans- parent ; and it will be found that the pheno- mena of earliest formation are most easily investigated in them. According to Dr. Martin Barry's observa- tions, in birds as well as in other animals, the germinal vesicle is the part of the ovum which is first formed. In the pigeon and common fowl, he has observed these vesicles in the ova- rian substance at a very early period*; and he believes their origin as simple cells to precede that of the ovarian vesicles, or follicles, or, as he has termed them, ovisacs, which surround them at a somewhat later period, but still in the earliest stages of the formative process. By other observers the ovarian vesicles have * See Pliilos. Trans, for 1838, p. 309. In this, coinciding with the opinion previously expressed by Von Jiaer. Fig. 53. Earliest stages of the formation of the ovarian egg in the Bird. A, b, c, d, E, f, actual representations of portions of the ovarian stroma and ovisacs of the thrush; G, h, i, k, diagrammatic sections of the same. a. In the ovarian stroma are seen the earliest state of the ova and ovisacs that can be perceived, consisting, first, of minute granular spots; next, of clear points within a minute granular mass ; and third, of small germinal vesicles, surrounded with the minutely granular dark yolk substance. Compare with g, in the diagrammatic figure. b and c. Different stages of formation of the ovi- sac round the small ova: the epithelium is seen to line the sac: the germinal vesicle with occasionally a single macula is now apparent, d. The epithe- lium of the ovisac shown in focus over the whole surface: in the other figures it is only shown in