11& PELVIS. in the sitting posture. These parts are composed chiefly of hard, laminated bone of dense section. The crest of the ilium is of a spongy structure, as also are the thick masses of bone at the tuberosities of the ilium and ischium, and around the cotyloid cavity. The thinnest parts of the bone are at the bottom of this cavity, and in the centre of the iliac fossa, at which places is so little cancellous structure, that the thin lamina?, forming the whole exterior of the bone, meet each other, and are so thin as to be sometimes translucent. The Sacrum (Syn. to tepov, Gr.; Os sa- crum, basilare, Lat. ; I'Os sacrum, Fr. ; das heilige, or Kreuz Bein, Germ.) is a single pyramidal bone, flattened antero-posteriorly, ami placed in the median line, with the apex downwards, the anterior aspect being directed downwards and forwards, and the posterior upwards and backwards. Its office is to form a basis of support to the spinal column and its appendages, and, acting like the keystone of an arch between the haunch-bones, to transmit to them its superincumbent weight. It also encloses and protects the terminal divisions of the spinal cord, and transmits them to the inferior parts of the body, and it completes the pelvic ca- vity behind, and affords attachments to the strong muscles of the back. It presents for examination four surfaces; anterior, posterior, and lateral, a base and an apex. The base (Jig. 78. a) is directed forwards and upwards, and has a general resemblance to the upper surface of a vertebra, the lateral parts exactly corresponding to each other, as in most single bones. In the centre, anteriorly, is a large, plane, oval, articular surface (l)for fibro-cartilaginous union with the last lumbar vertebra, of which the long diameter is placed transversely, and about two inches long. On each side of this surface extends a large, fan- shaped, flattish mass of bone (2), spreading externally, with a rounded anterior border, arching laterally, and forming part of the brim of the true pelvis. On the posterior border is seen a rounded prominence. At the junc- tion of the lateral masses with the oval arti- cular surface posteriorly, two articular pro- cesses (a, a') project upwards and backwards to articulate with those of the last lumbar ver- tebra. Their roots are marked anteriorly bv deep grooves, in which lay the last lumbar nerves. Their articular facets are slightly con- cave, circular, vertically placed, and directed backwards and inwards, and receive between them their counterparts on the last lumbar ver- tebra. Springing from the roots of these pro- cesses, two long lamina? (1 n) pass backward and inwards with much downward inclination to meet each other in a stunted median spinous process (2 b), the commencement of the sa- cral crest. They correspond to the lamina? and spines of the true vertebra?. The foramen (3 is) enclosed by them is triangular in shape, and of considerable size, and is the superior opening of the sacral canal. The apex (3 a) is a small oval, horizontal articular surface placed in the median line with its long diameter half an inch in extent, and directed transversely. To it is articulated the base of the coccyx. The anterior or pelvic surface is smooth and directed forwards and downwards, form- ing the posterior wall of the true pelvis. It is widest above, opposite the lateral masses of the base (e). A little below this point it is about three-fourths of an inch nar- rower (/;). It then widens again to the extent of nearly half an inch (/), and then gradually tapers to the apex. It is consider- ably arched from side to side, especially at its superior part, where it has a transverse cur- vature, varying from half to three quarters of an inch in central altitude. Longitudinally, also, this surface is curved to a still greater degree, and with greater variations, upon the comparative extent of which, in male and female, anatomists are much disagreed. On each side of the median line are four holes, the anterior sacral foramina, separated from each other by three rounded transverse processes of bone about half an inch wide (4), and placed at equal distances of rather more than half an inch from the median line. The two upper holes are of equal size, and much larger than the two lower. Each is con- nected to its fellow on the opposite side by four raised transverse lines (5), which mark the foetal separation of this bone into five ver- tebras ; and extending outwards and down- wards from each hole is a groove continued obliquely downwards to the borders of the bone (6). Below the last sacral hole, on each side, is a shallow notch, in the outline of the bone (c, c'), which is transformed into a foramen by the attachment of the upper transverse tubercles of the coccyx. There are many openings for nutritive arteries in this surface, directed generally towards the centre of the bone. The posterior surface (Jig. b) is rough for muscular attachments, and directed upwards and backwards. It is narrower than the op- posing parts of the anterior at the upper part of the bone generally, by rather more than half an inch. According to Mr. Ward, a transverse section of the sacrum, an inch below the base (at the second sacral ver- tebra), shows that in this place the posterior surface is wider than the anterior by three sixteenths of an inch, so that the sacral wedge is here i-eversed in obliquity, which he con- siders of importance in resisting anterior dislocation of the sacrum. Above this point, the anterior surface is three sixteenths of an inch wider, and below, it resumes its supe- riority in width by four sixteenths. In some cases the back and front are of equal width; in others the anterior diameter exceeds the posterior throughout. Its general curvatures are convex, following the concavities of the anterior surface. Jn the median line are four spinous processes (2), the first of which has been described with the base, connected by a sharp vertical ridge of bone, and corresponding to the four upper