IMMUNITY 370 specific bactericidal, specific htemolytic actions, etc.). The condition in which the organism because of prolonged administration of poison becomes accustomed to it, or as is commonly said becomes immune, is not in every case due to the forma- tion of antitoxin. According to recent researches by Edw. Faust the increased tolerance of morphia is not due to antitoxin formation, but to an increased capability of the body of destroying morphia. True irrwmnisation ivith the formation of antitoxin is only possible in the case of sub- stances ivithout definite chemical constitution (pro- teids or their allies), and not in the case of simpler molecules. Lastly, we have once more to note that the phenomena of immunity are in j^rt to be in- cluded in the realm of " specific immunity" and in part in that of " natural immunity " for which we have employed the term " natural resistance." "Specific immunity "and "natural resistance" are in theory totally distinct conditions, but in jjractice they very frequently, almost always, act in combination in one and the same indi- vidual in warding off the infective agent. An infective process cannot be correctly understood without taking into consideration both forms of immunity and their variations. The difference between the two forms of immunity is best characterised by their active substances: the alexins of natural resistance are destroyed at 60°, vary according to the animal species form- ing them, and are not attracted to the toxins, bacteria, etc. The antitoxins and anti-sub- stances of specific immunity do not derive their character from the animal species forming them, but from the special form of toxin, bacteria, etc., which Avere employed in treatment, and they are specifically attracted to the toxins, bacteria, etc., which are attacking the organism. Every organism possesses a certain degree of natural resistance at the moment when the disease com- mences, a resistance which, because of the attempts at protection, will usually increase during the disease, but which may decrease, whilst anti-substances are formed and brought mto action. An infective disease, therefore, as a rule represents a very complicated process when regarded from the standpoint of immunity. The analysis of the individual factors of this combined process falls to the task of clinical medicine, and it is to be hoped that in the course of time not merely theoretical explana- tions, but also points of practical importance will be discovered. [Recent Views on Immunity Bactericidal AND H.EMOLYTic Action.—It may be well again to reiterate the fact that in only a few of the diseases due to bacterial invasion is a soluble toxin formed. In most instances we have a rapid proliferation of the organisms within the body, and their action by the production of in- tracellular toxins. In the former group of in- fections cure may be brought about by a simple neutralisation of the toxin circulating in the blood, e.g. in diphtheria; in the second series what is essential is the destruction of the bacteria themselves. The Pfeiffer Phenomenon.—Pfeiffer discovered that if an animal was immunised by inoculation with dead cholera vibrios, and if, thereafter, a lethal dose of living vibrios was introduced into the peritoneal cavity, the organisms were killed within a comparatively short period. He further showed that on injecting into a normal animal living cholera vibrios along with anti-cholera serum which had been heated to 58° C, and had in consequence no bactericidal power in vitro, the same destruction of the organisms took place. It was inferred from these observations that the anti-cholera serum did not in itself con- tain the bactericidal element, but that it merely, in some way or other, enabled the tissues of the non-immune animal to cope with the bacteria. The nature of the defensive mechanism was further elucidated by Bordet, who found that while no bactericidal action occurred in a mixture of heated anti-cholera serum and vibrios, the addition of fresh serum from a non - immune animal caused bacteriolysis, but that if the fresh serum had been previously heated it lost this power. Bordet thus proved that in the bactericidal action two substances are concerned: one, in the fresh serum, which is thermolabile, and one in the immune serum, which is thermo- stable. The thermolabile element we call the complement or alexin, the thermostable element is the immune body, copula, or amboceptor. The latter, moreover, is a specific substance — a mixture of fresh serum with inactivated anti- cholera serum being bactericidal to cholera vibrios only. Hcemolytic Sera.— Bordet also pointed out that the phenomena following the inoculation of one species of animal with the red blood corpuscles of another species, present many analogies to the above, and it is on this account, as well as because blood corpuscles form a very convenient means of investigation, by reason of the ease with which haemolysis can be detected in vitro, that so much work has been done on hccmolytic sera. If an animal A be immunised by repeated inoculation with the blood corpuscles of another species B, the serum of A acquires the power of lysing B's corpuscles both on intra- vascular injection and in vitro. The action is specific, or nearly so; that is, the corpuscles of another species are not affected. This immune, or hsemolytic serum, can, like a bactericidal serum, be inactivated by heating to 58° C, and can again be activated by the addition of some fresh serum from a normal animal, but not by adding fresh serum which has been heated. Hicmolytic sera, therefore, contain thermostable