298 HYPNOTISM for a month, and afterwards occasionally for a few weeks. 6. As a general rule, the deeper the hypnosis the greater the chance of success. I only know of one instance amongst my own patients where a relapse followed after somnambulism had been obtained. On the other hand, many have re- covered when hypnosis had only reached the stage of drowsiness, while in some instances the recovery of the patient was the only evidence of hypnosis. 7. During hypnosis distaste of alcohol ought to be suggested to the patient, as well as the abolition of the craving. Finally, he must be made to understand that he can never look forward to being a moderate drinker, and that the only choice before him lies between total abstinence and drunkenness. MORPHINOMANIA AND OTHER DrUG HaBITS. Morphia and other drug habits frequently yield to hypnotic treatment. In many of my cases of neurasthenia and hysteria, especially where insomnia was a marked symptom, a drug habit had been established. Some took morphia regu- larly, either by the mouth or hypodermically, while a 3'et greater proportion used chloral, sulphonal, etc. One patient, who suffered from hysterical neuralgia, frequently inhaled chloro- form in addition to injecting morphia. In these cases the disease which had given rise to the drug habit was treated first; if the patients recovered, they often spontaneously gave up the habit or it disappeared in response to further suggestion. Thus, the patient, who had long taken chloroform and morphia, abandoned both as soon as his neuralgia ceased. A cocaine habit sometimes results from the pi'escription of cocaine spray for hay asthma or other affections of a like nature. One of my patients, who recovered imder hypnotic treat- ment, had for eight years used an ounce of cocaine per week in this way. Wetterstrand, amongst other cases of drug habits, cites 38 in which morphia was injected subcutaneously; of these 28 recovered. Many of the cases were extremely grave and of long- standing, and with several the abstinence treat- ment had been tried without success—sometimes more than once. Most of them were treated in private houses; the morphia was never stopped at once, but rapidly decreased, while the patient was constantly informed of the diminution. Dr. Fulda, Frankfurt-on-Main, reports a case of morphinism of ten years' dui-ation, which was cured after three months' hypnotic treatment; two years later there had been no relapse. One of Dr. Marot's patients had taken morphia for six years. Slie could not pass half an hour without giving herself a subcutaneous injection, and her arms, legs, and abdomen were covered with numerous cicatrices and subcutaneous nodules resulting from the use of the syringe. She recovered after hypnotic treatment, and three and a half years later there had been no relapse. Successful cases are also reported by Voisin, Berillon, Tanzi, and many others. Epilepsy.—Elliotson, Esdaile, and Braid re- ported cases of epilepsy said to have been cured by mesmeric or hypnotic treatment. In one, cited by Elliotson, there had been no relapse after two years, and in one of Braid's after eight years. Both patients had apparently suffered from genuine long-standing attacks of grand nial. Wetterstrand asserts that some of his earlier patients have now remained many years without relapse, and his general results are so startling that Forel said he only accepted them after he had personally investigated Wetterstrand's work. More or less successful cases are reported by de Jong, Berillon, Stadelmann, Woods, and others. With the exception of a case of epilepsy, associated with dipsomania, in which five years have passed without relapse, my results, although encouraging, are not conclusive. Out of eleven cases marked improvement occurred in five in- stances, but complete recovery in none. In one case of four years' duration, in which there wei'e several attacks of grand mal per week, and much impairment of intellect, there was a re- mission for twelve months; the patient then relapsed, but the fits ceased vmder renewed treatment. In another somewhat similar case the attacks ceased for eighteen months, then a solitary one appeared, while now twelve months have passed without a further attack. The cases already cited by no means exhaust the therapeutic applications of hypnotism, and the following are some—amongst the many widely differing diseases—in which it has been employed with success :— Menstrual Disorders.—According to Braid, hypnotic treatment was the best for regulating menstruation, and for curing or relieving morbid conditions connected with it. Later writers hold similar views. Thus, Forel cites cases in which he personally succeeded in causing the appearance or cessation of the period during hypnosis, and also in regulating its duration and intensity, while, in other instances, he produced the same results by post-hypnotic suggestion. The following cases are recorded by Tyko Brvinnberg, of Upsala :— Cases. No Improvement. Improved. Cured. Amenorrhrea . . 9 1 2 6 Menorrhagia . . 9 3 2 4 Menorrhagia and \ 5 1 1 3 Dysmenorrboea / Dysmenorrho;a. . 3 1 1 1 Total .... 26 6 6 14 One of the patients, a girl over 20 years of