245 HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF out oil the principles recommended for similar deformities of other origin. Hippia.tria..—Veterinary medicine (from Gr. iir-oi, a horse, and larpos, a physician). Hippocampus. — A peculiarly-shaped portion of the white matter of the brain (Gr. iWos, a horse, and Kainrq, a bending or turn- ing) ; the hippocampus major projects into the floor of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, and the hippocampus minor into the posterior horn. See Physiology, Nervous System {Localisation of Functions, Taste aTid. Smell). Hippocrates. See Medicine, History of {Influence of Greece). HippocratiC Facies. See Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, algid stage); Facies ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis, General {Symptoms, Facies Hippocratica). H i ppocrat iC Fi ngers.—The broaden- ing of the terminal phalanges of the fingers, producing '> clubbing," along with cyanosis of the digits : the condition is met with in chronic pulmonary disorders (phthisis, bronchiectasis, emphysema) and in congenital heart disease, etc. See Fingers {Appearances in Certain Dis- eases) ; Jaundice {Prognosis); Liver, Diseases op {Hyjjertrophic Biliary Cirrhosis, Symptoms). HippocratiC Succussion. — The splashing sound heard, on auscultation, of the chest when the patient's body is shaken, in cases of hydropneumothorax and pyopneumothorax. See Lung, Tuberculosis of {Physical Signs, Auscvltation over large vomica?); Pleura, Dis- eases of {Acute Pleurisy, Physical Signs, Succus- sion); Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumothorax, Clinical History, Auscultation). Hi ppocrat ism.—The Hippocratic doc- trine of endeavouring to cure disease by the study and imitation of nature's efforts and methods of securing recovery. Hippoi. — The registered trade name of methylene hippuric acid ; the drug has been used as a urinary antiseptic, in doses of 15 grains, in cases of cystitis, etc. Hippuria. — An excess of hippuric acid {'[.v.) in the urine, as in cases where benzoic acid is being taken. Hippuric Acid.—Benzamidoacetic acid, formed apparently from benzoic acid taken in the food, linked to glycocoll or amido-acetic acid in the kidneys. See Physiology', Excre- tion {Urine, Nitrogenous Substances, Hippuric Acid) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sedi- ments, Hifpivric Acid). HippUS.—^ Rhythmical contraction and dilatation of the pupil, as in head-shaking and hysteria. See Head-Shaking {Clinical Features); Pupil {Movements and Size). HirsutieS. See also "Esau"; Preg- nancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Skin Affections of Foetus); X-Rays {in Treatment). Hirsuties, hypertrichosis or excessive hairi- ness, is a term having a somewhat wide range of application. The old woman who develops scattered hairs upon the chin, and the old man with bushy eyebrows and a copious growth in the nostrils, external ears, and over the body, are both instances of hirsuties or hypertrichosis of the senile type. The adult man whose body, either in a special and unusual locality or over its whole surface, is provided with hair, and the adult woman whose hairy covering resembles in extent and distribution the male type, are ex- amples, the one of heterotopic, and the other of heterogenic hypertrichosis. Further, at the period of puberty the hair which then normally appears in both sexes may be excessive, and the girl at this time may show the arrangement and development of hair which belong to the boy; again, the appearance of the hair at puberty may be precocious in either sex : these, likewise, are hypertrichoses. There are also hypertrichoses which are due to injuries and diseases of nerves, to trophic disturbances, and to chronic inflammatory states. The ntevus which carries hair on its surface (najvus pilosus) has by some writers been regarded as a hyper- trichosis, but it is advisable to restrict the use of the term to the cases in which the underlying- skin is apparently normal. Finally, the infant at the time of birth, or very soon thereafter, may show a general or a localised excessive growth of hair to which the name of congenital hypertrichosis {universalis, localis) is correctly given. In the other varieties, also, congenital predisposition may, and doubtless does, play an important part. If birth occur prematurely the infant will show a sort of physiological hypertrichosis universalis, for the lanugo of foetal life will still be present. This, however, is not what is meant by general congenital hypertrichosis, which is rather the persistence till birth at the full time and throughout postnatal life of this same lanugo, more or less altered in its physical characters. It is not yet definitely known in what relation excessive hairiness stands to the foetal lanugo, and it is, therefore, not justifiable to define hypertrichosis as a persistence of the lanugo. Accurate reports are much needed of the condition of the hair at and immediately after birth in the subjects of this trichogenetic anomaly ; doubtless this lacuna in ovir know- ledge will ere long be filled ; and we shall then know with some certainty whether the lanugo itself becomes the hair of the " hairy infant" or whether it falls off and is replaced by an entirely new growth.