427 INFLUENZA as by means of complications and sequelae, affecting the breathing organs and the heart. 3. It spared the lives of children of tender years, but killed large numbers of adults and those advanced in life. 4. Its effect upon the death-rate was sudden and pronounced, and lasted for at least seven weeks, or throughout the month of January and first half of February. The virus or contagium of influenza, when once introduced into the body, acts primarily and quickly on the nervous system, producing the phenomena of an acute pyrexia, with singu- larly rapid pulse. In January 1890 a boy of seven and a half years had incessant nausea and vomiting for 24 hours, and profuse sweating, with a pulse as fast as in scarlet fever—140 per minute. He was one of a family of five children, all of whom had influenza together, their ages ranging from thirteen to four years. The mildest cases were those of the eldest and youngest. There was a bronchial catarrh in two instances. Very young children seem to enjoy a certain immunity from the disease, or to have it in a mild form—an ephemeral fever, followed by profuse sweating, and after a few days a tendency to slight catarrh. Hilton Fagge says that influenza "is sometimes dangerous to very young children," but he adds in a footnote that "Sir George Baker writes of the epidemic in 1762, Leviterplectebantur infantes et liberahantur facillime." This is altogether the writer's experi- ence also. In 1847 Dr. Fleetwood Churchill communicated to the Dublin Journal of Medical Science observations he had made on the epidemic influenza observed in January and February of that year among children in Dublin. In up- wards of sixty cases, embracing children of all ages, from two months old to twelve or fourteen years, he had not a single death; so that he was led to conclude that, among children, although the epidemic was very general and severe, yet the danger was not very great when the disease was properly handled. This "child- type" of influenza presented itself to the writer's notice in 1890 in a large girls' school, of which he is one of the physicians. Clinical Features Adults in most instances suffer much more severely than children from the influenza poison. In them the attack as a rule comes on with lightning-like speed. A person apparently in perfect health is suddenly overcome by a feeling of general discomfort and profound depression. He feels chilly, or is shaken with a rigor worthy of an ague fit. His head aches. There are pains in his eyeballs, or "behind the eyes," and the eyeballs are exquisitely tender on pressure. Soon rheumatoid pains rack his body. They are particularly severe in the nape of the neck, small of the back, in the knees, and along the margins of the ribs. The patient is often sleep- less, sometimes delirious. He may temporarily suffer loss of the special senses of smell, taste, and sometimes hearing. His eyes smart, tears overflow, he shrinks from the light (photo- phobia). Occasionally there is intense earache (otalgia). Strength ebbs away far more quickly than even in typhus, so that after a few hours he must take to his bed. Nor do the digestive and respiratory systems escape. The tongue becomes thickly coated with a creamy or blanket-like fur. There is a bad taste in the mouth, the breath is heavy or even foetid. There is complete loss of appetite, amounting to a loathing against food. Nausea and perhaps vomiting add to the sufferer's distress. The bowels are constipated, but occasionally diarrhoea sets in as in an attack of cholerine. In another group of cases the brunt of the poison appears to fall on the respiratory tract. Cough, ex- pectoration, a sense of oppression on the chest, a tightness in the breathing being common symptoms. In a word influenza seems to have the property of picking out the weak point in a person's constitution. If the patient is neurotic, nervous and neuralgic symptoms are likely to develop. Any old tendency to catarrh of either the respiratory or the digestive mvicous membrane is at once intensified in the presence or in the wake of this strange malady. At the same time catarrhal symptoms may be badly marked or entirely absent. Dr. Parsons, in his Report on Epidemic Influenza in 1889-90, states that the comparative absence of catarrh led some observers to doubt whether that visitation had been one of true influenza. But a similar infrequency of catarrh had been observed on previous occasions. Dr. Parsons quotes the following authorities. Sir William Gairdner, writing of an outbreak which occurred in 1862, says: "But although catarrh is frequent and may be severe, the disease is essentially a fever and not a catarrh. Na}', the catarrh may be absent or insignificant; not unfrequently it is so." Sir Samuel Wilks also, writing of the epidemic of 1847, says: "Although a synonym for influenza is 'epidemic catarrh,' the latter was by no means a constant symptom ; many of the worst cases, and especially the fatal ones, having no catarrhal symptoms whatever." In a report on the epidemic of 1782, the Royal College of Physicians of London state that " the symptom which universally prevailed, and which appeared to be almost a pathognomonic of the disease, was a distressing pain and sense of constriction in the forehead, temples, and sometimes in the whole face, accompanied with a sense of soreness about the cheek-bones under the muscles. This, now and then, was felt previously to the catarrh, and not unfrequently was followed by very little or no catarrhoiis affection." Type.s The protean forms which influenza presents