257 HOSPITALS The essential parts of an isolation hospital are :—An administration block, containing nurse and matron's rooms, kitchen, scullery, pantries, larder, linen-store, storeroom, coal-store, nurses' and servants' bedrooms, bathrooms. The extent of these will entirely depend on the size of the hospital, but cannot be very much curtailed for ordinary sizes. The wards ; and the best arrangement is to have single-storey pavilions for each type of disease. The sexes to be separated by an intervening nurse's duty-room, with a cooking range and hot-water arrangement. By means of a closed window the nurse can supervise both wards. A bath on wheels can be kept in the passage or hall, and be used for both svards. Steam disinfector, laundiy and wash-house, ambulance shed, mortuary, coal and stick house, can form another block. Caretaker's house and discharge rooms. The most suitable ai'rangement for all these is pavilions running north and south, administra- tion block in front and in middle. Ambulance shed, laundry, etc., in rear. All separated by a 40-feet space. Non-infectious diseases hospitals should have same conditions as to site, etc. already referred to. Accommodation will depend upon individual circumstances. It may be only a two or three- roomed cottage. One of the most recently established cottage hospitals is arranged thus: The administration block is central, and the wards form wings in communication by passages with shutting-ofF doors. On the ground floor of the administration block is a man's day-room and a woman's day- room, doctor and matron's room, and in the back, kitchen, scullery, and store, etc. The two main wards are on a north-east line, and have six beds in each separate sexes. There are six private wards, four with one bed in each, and two with three. Above the central buildins; are nurse's and matron's bedrooms, day-rooms, etc. The floor space for the wards is 90 feet, and the cubic space 1350, and the general internal arrangements are as already described for isola- tion hospitals. The operation room is on the ground level, and to the back of the building. The walls and floor are covered with glazed tiles. The operat- ing table is of metal. Wash-hand basins and sink taps can all be wrought by the foot. Glass tops resting on rubber are provided for the basins. Shelving is of glass on iron supports. A hose is provided for washing and flushing the floors and walls. The lighting is from the roof. Disinfecting and sterilising rooms are provided for bedding, clothing, and for instruments. This hospital embodies the latest developments in hospital construction. VOL. IV Rules fm- Visitors in Infectious Hospitals.— 1. No person, unless an officer of the hospital or a member of the hospital committee, shall enter the hospital without a written order, signed by the Clerk or Medical Superintendent, except the Sanitary Inspector of any Local Authorities, who shall have right of entry only when bring- ing patients to the hospital. 2. Friends of patients will be admitted only when provided with a written order by the Medical Superintendent, except in cases where a fatal result is feared, when the Matron's sanction will be sufficient. Admission, under all circumstances, will be subject to the following conditions :— (a) That not more than two visitors will be admitted at the same time. (b) That each visit shall not exceed five minutes. (c) That no fruit, food, or drink or sweet- meats be given to any patient. (d) That visitors shall not touch patients or their clothes, nor sit on their beds, nor go too near them. (e) That they shall not smoke nor conduct themselves in any way disagreeable to the Matron or patients. 3. Visitors to small-pox cases must have been recently revaccinated, or have had the disease previously, and must cover themselves with an overall dress to be provided for the purpose. 4. All visitors must obey the Matron's injunc- tion in regard to length of visit, modes of pre- venting infection, etc. Hot Air. tSee Hydropathy (Hot-air Applications). Hot Bath. See Balneology (Htimmun); Lungs, Vascular Disorders (ffi'c?e?Ji«, Treatment). Hot Pack. See RxDROFATHY (Ht/dropathic Methods, Packs). Hot Spots. See Physiology, Senses (Temperature Sense). Hour-Glass Contraction. See Labour, Retention of Placenta (Spasmodic Contraction of Uterus); Stomach, Surgical Affections of (Hour-Glass Stomach). House-Flies. See Myiasis. Housemaid's Knee. See Bubs^, In-juries and Diseases of (Simple Chronic Bursitis); Knee-Joint, Diseases of (Chronic Bursitis). House Refuse. See Sewage and Drainage. Howard's IViethod. See Asphyxia (Arflfcial Besjnration, Methods). 17