HEARING, ARTIFICIAL AIDS TO 65 gathered that of this class of artiticial aids to hearing only two forms are of actual practical value :— (a) The conversation-tube. (b) A simple form of trumpet. (a) The conversation-tube consists of a trumpet- shaped mouthpiece, to collect the sound waves, connected with a metal or vulcanite earpiece by means of a piece of tubing of covered rubber strengthened by spiral wire. The mouthpiece is held by the person with whom communica- tion is required, who speaks into it in ordinary tones. Here it may be remarked, that in con- versing with deaf persons a distinct enunciation in ordinai'y tones will always be heard the best. The greater part of the sound in spoken words is produced by the vowels, and it is the con- sonants which form the distinguishing part of words and which have the softest tone. The louder one speaks, the more intense is the sound of the vowels as compared with the con- sonants; hence in shouted or loudly-spoken words the former are apt to eclipse the latter, and the distinctiveness of the words is thereby impaired or lost. Shouted conversation is therefore worse heard than that uttered in ordinary tones. The conversation-tube can be worn round the neck or carried coiled up in the pocket, and is decidedly superior for near conversation. {b) A simple form of trumpet is required for heai'ing at a distance ; that which is, par excel- lence, the best is the one known as the London horn. It is made in three sizes, and should be painted a dull black, the plated ones being- somewhat conspicuous. It consists of a bell- shaped receiver, from the side of the large end of which springs a curved tube, ending in an ivory, ebony, or vulcanite earpiece. The mouth is usually covered with a fenestrated disc. The earpiece is introduced into the meatus, the large open end being directed towards the source of sound. This instrument is excellent for churches, concerts, lectures, theatres, and the like. A noticeable drawback to the metal horns lies in the metallic adventitious sounds which they convey, particularly when listening to singing, orchestral music, etc. Among other artificial aids to hearing may be mentioned the " rod-ostephone " of Thomas, and the modification thereof of Cresswell Baber. These are used after the manner of the "audi- phone" already described, and aim at trans- mitting sound through the teeth and the bones of the skull. Their use, however, is very limited. At one time much was expected of the micro- phone as an aid for the deaf, but hitherto all results from that invention or its modifications have proved impracticable and disappointing. To sum up the subject, therefore, it may be said that of all the artificial aids to hearins: that VOL. IV have hitherto been devised, only three are of any real practical value, namely, a simple and unirritating form of "artificial ear-drum," the conversation-tube, and the London horn. It is well to advise j^atients who wish to use a trumpet or tvibe not to purchase in too great a hurry, but to obtain several forms on approval or hire in order that they may, by experiment, discover the one which suits them best before purchasing. Hea.rt. See Adrenal Glands, Adrenalin {Uses, Heart Disease); Alcohol {Morbid Changes in Chronic Alcoholism, Heart); Alcohol {Indica- tions) ; Alcoholism {Chronic, Complications); AnyEmia {Symptoms); Anaesthesia, General Physiology ; Anaesthesia, Chloroform {Objec- tions, Heart Failure); Aneurysm {Signs and Symptoms, Heart - Sounds); Angina Pectoris; Balneology {General Balneo-Therapeutics, Affec- tions of Cardio - Vascular System); Beriberi {Symptoms, Cardiac) ; Chest, Clinical Investi- gation OF the {Heart); Chest, In.juries of (Wounds of Heart); Children, Clinical Ex- amination of {Circulatory System, Heart); Digitalis ; H.ematemesis {Causes and Source) ; Heart, Embryology, Comparative Anatomy, AND Physiology ; Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium AND Endocardium ; Heart, Neuroses OF; Heart, CoNGENrrAL Malformations of ; Heart, Surgery of ; Hydatid Disease {Special Organs, Heart); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Foetal Heart); Labour, Manage- ment OF {Ancesthetics, in Heart Disease) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Etiology, Predisposing Factors, Heart Disease) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Com- plications, Endocarditis); Medicine, Forensic {Injuries, Ruptures, Heart) ; Meninges of the Cerebrum {Purident Meningitis, Causes); Peri- cardium, Diseases ; Pharmacology ; Physi- ology, Circulation {Heart) ; Pleura, Diseases OF {Acute Pleurisy, Signs of Effusion, Displace- ment of Heart); Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumo- thorax, Clinical History); Post-mortem Methods {Examination of Cavities, Thorax, Heart); Pregnancy, Physiology {General Changes, Circulation); Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Objective Symptoms ami Signs, Foetal Heart Sounds) ; Pregnancy, Intra - uterine Diseases {Foetal Endocarditis) ; Pubrperium, Physiology of {Changes in Maternal System, Circxdatory System); Pubrperium, Pathology {Ulcerative Endocarditis); Puerperiuji, Pathology {Sudden Death., Causes); Pulse; Syphilis {Tertiary, Pathology, Vascular System); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Climate and its Effects); Visceral Pain {Hollow Mtiscular Organs, Heart); etc. Heart — Embryolog^y, Com- parative Anatomy, and Physi- OlOgry of.—It is necessary to the under- standing of diseases, disorders, and malformations of the heart, that we should bear in mind the 5