539 INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF layer. The inner two layers are known as the intussusceptum, the outer or sheath as the in- tussuscipiens. The upper part is known as the neck or collar, and the apex is the lower ex- tremity of the intussusceptum. The mesentery is found between the layers of the intussus- ceptum, and assists in the arrest of further pro- gress of the involved portion of intestine by the traction it exerts. In addition to this the intussusceptum is made to take a curved form by it, and the orifice at its apex to become more slit-like than circular. Any part of the small or large intestine may be involved, and these varieties are described under the name of the portion of intestine affected. Intussusception in children before they are five years of age is common. It appears to follow frequently the vigorous, irregular peristalsis caused by purgative medicine or irritating foods, and is seldom dxie to any organic disease. In adults it is comparatively rare, and with few exceptions is occasioned by growths in the bowel, either polypi or annular malignant growths. The ileo-csecal valve certainly plays a very important part in its production, as the ileo- Ccccal jiinction is the commonest site of it. This valve has been aptly compared to the anus, and intussusception here to pro- lapse of the rectum. I have seen acute intussusception follow immediately on severe strain in a healthy young adult, and in babies, too, vigorous jumping up and down previous to the attack has been observed in so many cases that traumatism must be noted as an exciting cause. Apart from the intussusceptions found post- mortem, which produce no obstruction and cause no symptoms, and appear in the act of dying, two distinct varieties of intussusception, patho- logical and clinical, are met with : the acute and the chronic. In acute cases the intussus- cepted bowel and its mesentery are nipped by the collar at the neck, and the intussusceptum is affected as is the imprisoned bowel in a stran- gulated hernia : First, The venous circulation is obstructed in the intussusceptum; then follows oedema and consequent interference with the arterial supply; next the damaged tissues yield to the attack of the bacillus coli, and become inflamed, gangrene occurring as the final result. Above the intussusception the intestine is dis- tended, and destructive circulatory changes are brought about in it as in all obstruction cases. The most important pathological facts to bear in mind from the clinical point of view are the swelling of the intussusceptum produced by venous engorgement, which in the course of a few hours may be so pronounced as to make reduction impossible. The engorgement is most marked at the apex of the intussusceptum, which becomes so swollen, rounded, and firm as to resemble a tumour, and to effectually resist ordinary efforts made for its release. Of even greater importance is the fact that adhesions are likely to form rapidly in acute cases, and to glue together the peritoneal coats of the involved intestine. These adhesions, though favourable to spontaneous recovery by sloughing of the intussusceptum, are a hindrance to its surgical reduction. The usual causes of death are gan- grene of the sheath, perforation in it or in the bowel above, and gangrene of the intussus- ceptum. In the chronic variety there is at first little if any interference with the vascular supply of Fig. 3.—Kink witli adhesion to a tuberculous mesenteric "land. the involved bowel, and inflammation is conse- quently not brought about. Even after many months in some chronic cases reduction has been easily effected, on account of there being but a small amount of swelling and an absence of inflammatory adhesions to glue the displaced and opposed peritoneal surfaces together. Sooner or later, however, in these cases more active mischief develops. Frequently, in the neighbourhood of the lesion, ulcers form, and perforation with peritonitis terminates existence. The gut above is frequently hypertrophied as in other chronic obstruction cases. Torsions and Volvulus.—Torsions and vol- vulus, though frequently spoken of as common, are quite rare. With a sufficiently long- mesentery the most complicated knots and twists may arise, but except for the puzzling- difficulties in dealing with these complicated conditions surgically, they are of small clinical importance. Volvulus is a well-marked variety. It con- sists in the twisting- of an intestinal loop round an axis formed by its mesentery, a congenital or acquired lengthening of , which is commonly found associated with it (Fig. 4). It chiefly occurs in elderly adults, and the sigmoid flexure is its most common site. For this there are several reasons : the sigmoid is a long loop