21 HEMATOMA AURIS be permitted to develop to its full extent without any remedial measures being under- taken, the subsequent deformity is usually extreme; whereas the early application of blistering fluid usually succeeds in arresting the progress of the effusion, and in very greatly diminishing the amount of permanent deformity. The prognostic value of oth»omatoma as regards the progress of the mental malady is important. Its presence is indicative of wide- spread and profound nutritional changes, and a corresponding extent and degree of cerebral degeneration. The prospect of ultimate re- covery is, therefore, very slight. Clouston states that he has " seen only four or five cases perfectly recover out of over eighty who had fully developed htematoma auris, and four others who made partial recoveries after slight threatenings of hsematoma auris which might not have developed fully or were stopped by blistering fluid." Treatment.—The most effective means of treat- ment is that first suggested by Dr. Hearder, and indicated in the preceding section. It consists in the application of blistering fluid to the auricular surfaces on the earliest signs of any swelling from the commencing heematoma. Its success depends upon the promptitude with which the fluid is painted on, and the failure of the method is usually proportionate to the delay. If, as sometimes happens, the cyst becomes accidentally inoculated with pyogenic organisms, it must be freely incised, and the purulent contents washed out with antiseptic solutions. Except in these circumstances, how- ever, surgical interference should be avoided as tending more to aggravate than to improve the condition. Haematometra.—Distension of the uterus with blood, usually retained menstrual blood. See Generation, Female Organs {Arrested Developments); Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Retention of Menstrual Fluid) ; Uterus, Mal- formations OP {Atresia of Vaginal Orifice). Haematomonas Evansii.—The so- called su7-ra parasite, a mici-obe believed to be the cause of surra, a disease affecting horses, camels, etc., and occurring in India. Haematomyelia. — Hajmorrhage into the substance of the spinal cord. See Spinal Cord, Medical (Vascular Lesions, Hemorrhage). HsematonephrosiS. — Haemorrhage into the substance of the kidney, cystic or simple. HaematonOSUS.—A blood-disease, also a cutaneous malady characterised by vascular disturbances in the tissues of the skin {e.g. eczema). Haematopericardium.—The effu- sion of blood into the pericardial sac. Haematophilia. See H/emophilia, although hcematophilia is perhaps the more correct form. HaeiYia'topoiesiS.—Htematogenesis or blood formation. See Physiology, Blood {Sou7'ce of Blood Constituents). Haematoporphyrinuria. Definition . . . . . .21 Sulphonal Poisoning . . . .21 Recognition of . . . . .22 Etiology of . . . . . .23 Treatment . . . . . .23 See also Physiology, Blood {Decomposition of Haemoglobin, Urine, Pigments); Pigments of THE Body and Excreta (Hcematopo^-phyrin); Rheumatism, Acute (Symptoms, Urine); Spectroscope in Medicine ; Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Colour, Pigments). The condition known as hsematoporphyrinuria has attracted considerable attention of recent years. It is characterised by the passage of urine of a dark red colour, like that of port wine, and which, although free from haemo- globin, contains a considerable amount of that derivative of the blood pigment which is known as htematoporphyrin. This employment of the term, although very convenient, is open to certain objections. In the first place, htematoporphyrin is present in minute quantity in normal human urine, and under various morbid conditions the amount present is notably increased, so that it is some- times possible for a trained eye to detect some of its characteristic absorption bands when a sufficiently deep layer of the urine is examined with the spectroscope. However, under ordinary conditions the quantity present is too small to have any material influence upon the colour of the liquid. Secondly, in the condition known as heemato- porphyriiuiria there is not merely an exaggera- tion of the increased hsematoporphyrin excretion, which is so common a phenomenon in disease, but rather a profound disturbance of pigment metabolism of which this is only one of the evidences. These dark red urines owe only a small part of their abnormal colour to the hsematoporpyhrin which they contain, as Ham- marsten was the first to point out, and their tint is mainly due to the presence of other abnormal pigments of which we as yet know very little. Moreover, even the known pig- ments which they contain are apt to exhibit certain peculiarities in their behaviour to sol- vents, and in other respects. The frequent dependence of such ha^mato- porphyrinuria upon the administration of sulphonal is no longer open to doubt, and the allied drugs trional and tetronal appear to have a similar action, only in a lesser degree. In