471 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS portance to character—that each stimulation of mechanism (short of fatigue) increases its facility. Practice makes perfect; familiarity deepens im- pressions ; repetition strengthens memory. As I have said, any retained image which can be recalled probably implies a mechanism in which there is constant, though subconscious, activity. But, perhaps for want of renewed impulse, these currents, it may be, lessen and cease ; while those habitually augmented by restimulation are per- petuated. And the mechanisms can be no other than the same mechanisms primarily concerned in perception, or perhaps an extension of them. To learn a fact and to recall it imply very com- parable processes. Different degrees of association and of repeti- tion characterise the distinction, useful to the physician, between old facts, recent facts, and permanent facts. In investigating a patient's memory we try to discover how far he can recall the facts of yesterday, or the facts of ten years ago, or again a fact which has been all along the same—as, for example, the Queen's name, the date of Waterloo, or where the baby Moses was found. In all mental disorders there is some impairment of this function, and in a few, especially in alcoholic and in delirious insanities, the defect is quite characteristic. It is chiefly in disease that we discover also the importance of the observation of three phases of memory— retention, recollection, and recognition. Defects of the first of these alone are practically un- recognisable. But it is very easy to detect defects of recollection, as, for example, in a patient who observes and clearly apprehends a fact, yet five minutes later cannot recall it. And of recognition—the function whereby we recognise the recollection as the thing we have been seeking for—disorders are common, and most obvious in cases characterised by mistaken sense of identities. A very interesting pheno- menon, most familiar in the senile, is an ex- travagance of recollection which we may call reminiscence. The patient lives and moves in scenes of fifty years ago, the attention dwelling upon images which may have lain subconscious for half a lifetime; and, in minor degree, the process is common in many disordered brains. Lastly, we have to note a very difficult function —prospective memory, the ability to remember forwards. This function is one closely related to purpose and intention, and is very commonly, and often early, disturbed in mental disorders. The inability of the insane to carry forward their plans is often more notable than their disability in conceiving them. Thought, Intelligence, Common Sense, Be- liefs.—The fact that so few people can really be said to think, taken with the average amount of level-headedness and sagacity, and the average amount of proper conduct, speaks volumes for the subconscious activities of brain. In the rational sphere common sense is to knowledge what the domestic instincts are to the affections. Most of the sagacity of the average person is innate or intuitive knowledge, and not the fruit of logic. This implies then an abundant activity in nerve mechanisms which automatically deter- mine opinions and beliefs. Thought indeed, in its elaborate modes, does not often call for in- vestigation in mental disorder. It is a delicate process which, in those who have practised it, disappears very early in disease. In its place we have to note, on the one hand, premature inferences, and, on the other, extravagant imagin- ings, both alike due to an abeyance of corrective judgment. The foolish and the deluded seem to accept blindly almost any opinion that their brain serves up to them; and that this disorder is a product of subconsciousness is testified to by the fact that these people invariably prefer their own explanation of things rather than any, however plausible, suggested by an outsider. The physician, if he tries, will find it hard, and hardest in the most deluded, to substitute one insane belief for another in the mind of his jmtient; those mentally disordered are notori- ously not amenable to suggestion. Delusions then are generally intuitive products, although circumstantial facts may later be adduced to support them, and are similar in kind to the imperative ideas which we call obsessions. In obsession, the brain presents persistently to the mind an idea, often quite irrelevant to the rest of the patient's life, but eventually touching his personality. These phenomena partly indicate a disordered activity from which some imaginative opinion rises into consciousness and dominates it; but they betoken diminished rather than ex- cessive thinking. It is the function of corrective judgment, the ability to weigh the facts care- fully before coming to a conclusion, which is at fault. Gullibility is a very common feature in persons who are of the insane diathesis; and a sense of probability is conspicuously lacking in the insane. These defects obviously betoken a want, or an impairment of common sense. Short of delusion, the practitioner will often observe minor failures of this kind — facility, opinion- ativeness, extravagant expectation—due to an exhaustion of judgment, and likely to be followed, if not corrected, by positive delusion. Quite as often also—and this is important—we observe in the unhealthy mind persistent confusion (see later under Confusional Insanity). In one sense confusion is normal to all thoughtful minds; it characterises our state in regard to every question concerning which our minds are not made up, and the more thoughtful we are the less sure we are. But confusion in the insane very often refers to things which, in the sane mind, admit of no question. It is essential to mental stability that we should take a great deal for granted, that we should assume that what everybody believes is true, that we should continue to hold beliefs which we have proved.