INFLAMMATION 417 tageous, especially upon external surfaces and mucous membranes, as a large quantity of serous fluid may wash away the poisons or at least weaken their effects. When fibrinous it may circumscribe the inflammation by prevent- ing the spread of the irritant. This is well seen in the fibrinous adhesions which so fre- quently localise an appendicitis or a pelvic peritonitis, and even in more diffuse forms, such as pericarditis, it may do good by closing the stomata and interfering with toxine absorption by the lymphatics and blood-vessels. The exu- date may also contain bactericidal and digestive substances, leading to the production of peptones and the death of bacteria. It may lead to increased nutrition of the affected region, which may be useful in the later, though rarely in the earlier stages of inflammation. On the other hand, the exudate is positively hurtful when it collects in the body cavities and ventricles of the brain, and when it accumulates in the lung alveoli, or in the pharynx and air passages. Further, instead of proving injurious to bacteria, it may be actually helpful by providing them with a good nidus for their further growth and development. IV. llie Escape of Blood Corpuscles.—1. The Leucocytes.—Their escape from the blood- vessels is an active vital process. The first step is their margination along the wall of the blood-vessels, especially the small veins. It is brought about by action of the noxa upon the vessel walls, as it never occurs in a healthy vessel. It is a deteriorative or degenerative ac- tion, generally demonstrable histologically. The nucleus of the endothelial and other cells becomes rounded, the protoplasm granular or vacuolated, or mucoid, colloid, or other degeneration appears. Even in the exceptional cases in which there is no detectable histological change there is always a disturbance of the perfect endothelial pave- mentation of the lumen. The cement substance between the endothelial cells is deranged and loosened. It becomes irregularly distributed along the lumen and widened in places, as can be shown by treating it with the silver nitrate process. The amount and degree of this change will depend mainly upon the nature and inten- sity of the noxa, but it is rarely so great as to cause the appearance of actual visible pores. They exist potentially, and the leucocytes, after margination, become adherent to the endothelial cells, and commence to push a part of their protoplasm through between them at intervals here and there along the vessel wall, and the entire cell body gradually follows. In the capillaries, where the process can be most easily studied on accoimt of the thinness of their walls, the leucocytes are always seen to pass out between aiad never through the bodies of the endothelial cells. It is chiefly the poly- morpho-nuclear leucocytes, comprising roughly 70 per cent of the total number of the corpuscles VOL. IV present in the blood, which emigrate. They pass out of the vessels through their amoeboid move- ment, and may in the same way transport them- selves to considerable distances. The activity of this amoeboid movement appears to be largely dependent upon the nature and intensity of the noxa. The more the blood-vessel wall is deranged the more readily can it occur. They do not show it while still within the vessels and previous to adhesion to their walls. It has been suggested that substances are formed in the tissues in inflammation which attract the leucocytes, and the term positive chemotaxis has been introduced to designate this attraction. Many substances can be experimentally shown to exert it, e.g. thin solutions of glue, of the gluten of wheat, and liquids containing the products of bacterial ac- tion. Substances having this positive chemotaxic action may be produced from various sources in inflammation, such as the products of bacteria and the products of degeneration of the fixed tissues. The margination and adhesion of the leucocj'tes are apparently entirely due to the degenerative changes in the vessel walls, un- influenced by chemotaxis. Nor can the latter be regarded as the cause of either the beginning or the continuance of the amoeboid movement, since leucocyte emigration may take place when it is certain that no such action is being exerted. It cannot be more, then, than an active and important stimulant thereof. Certain substances may arrest or prevent the emigration of leuco- cytes, e.g. solutions of quinine, iodoform, salicylic acid, and a 1^ per cent solution of common salt. This action is capable of different explanations. It may be attributed to a negative instead of a positive chemotaxis, causing an inhibition of amoeboid movement, or to a contraction of the vessel walls which interferes with their perme- ability and with the adhesion of leucocytes. Such substances are not, therefore, suitable washes or applications for wounds where free leucocyte emigration is desired. Leucocyte emigration occurs most abundantly in inflam- mations set up by the pyogenic bacteria, viz. the staphylococci and streptococci, which cause what are known as suppurative inflammations or suppurations. They have been most care- fully studied in their experimental production in the skin and cornea, and in their natural occurrence in various organs and tissues. The leucocytes emigrate extensively from the blood- vessels, and collect chiefly around and among the cocci. Many of them have their protoplasm crowded with cocci which they have ingested. This engulfing of the cocci by the leucocytes, which are consequently called phagocytes, is an active process, and is held by Metschnikoff acd his followers to be of vital importance in con- trolling, CTU'bing, and counteracting the pyogenic inflammatory processes, by gradually bringing about the destruction of the causal bacteria. This is the doctrine of phagocytosis. It may be 27