MALFORMATIONS OF HEART, CONGENITAL 149 many cases exceedingly obscure. The experi- ments of Geoffrey St. Hilaire and other more recent observers have shown that a variety of mechanical and chemical influences (such as violent shaking and the injection of chemical irritants or of pathogenic germs and their toxins) acting on an egg often result in congenital malformations in the chicken. The causes which mider ordinary circumstances produce a like result in the human embryo are as yet quite unknown. It is extremely probable, however, as Ballantyne has pointed out, that the same morbific influences which occasion endocarditis in the later stages of intra-uterine life give rise to developmental defects when they act during the earlier months. In other words, the morbid influence which in the young embryo produces a teratological result has a pathological effect when it acts on a foetus which has so far developed as to have differenti- ated organs. It is important, in connection with the causation of congenital heart disease, to draw attention to the fact that a great variety of external malformations due to imperfect de- velopment (such as hare-lip, imperforate anus, webbed fingers, etc.) are frequently found along with it, and that it has been pointed out recently that a curiously large proportion of " Mongolian " imbecile children present congenital heart lesions. This association with the other defects of de- velopment seems quite as marked in instances of fa'tal endocarditis as in the so-called develop- mental cases. Clinical Phenomena. — The symptoms met with in cases of congenital heart disease vary greatly according to the extent as well as the nature of the lesions present, and the degree to which these interfere with the circulation. In some few cases {e.g. in some of septal defect) there may be no symptom or physical sign that could lead to a suspicion of abnormality during life. In others {e.g. in many of patent ductus arteriosus) there may be nothing discoverable beyond a murmur. In the great majority of cases, however, we meet not oviij with murmurs and other abnormalities on physical examination of the heart, but also with more or less deep cyanosis, with chilliness of the extremities and concentration of the blood; and we also often find clubbing of the finger-ends. If the inter- ference with the circulation is marked we find some considerable degree of debility, and there may also be a varying amount of dyspnoea, attacks of cardiac pain, epistaxis, and epilepti- form seizures of various types. The coincident occurrence of external defects of development has been already alluded to. Some of these clinical phenomena deserve further mention. Physical Signs.—The physical signs of con- genital heart disease discoverable on palpation, percussion, and auscultation consist of altera- tions in the position or force of the heart's apex-beat, thrills, increased size or altered contour of the cardiac dulness, murmurs, and changes in the loudness of the sounds—especi- ally of the pulmonary second sound. The combination of these phenomena met with has often much more significance than their indi- vidual occurrence. Thus a loud systolic murmur, with no increased dulness and no accentuation of the pulmonary second sound, has a very different meaning from an otherwise identical murmur accompanied by the usual signs of cardiac hypertrophy. The murmurs are usually peculiar in their areas of audition, and in their lines of propaga- tion, which do not correspond to those charac- teristic of any valvular lesion. It is often difficult, if not impossible, to determine the area of their maximum intensity, and this may also vary from time to time in the same case. In the very great majority of instances the murmurs are systolic in time; rarely, however, they may be diastolic or presystolic. Peculiar humining sounds are sometimes met with, especially over the base of the heart. It is to be remembered that murmurs due to congenital cardiac defects may change considerably in character and distribution if the patient be- comes anemic. Cyanosis.—Cyanosis is present in the majority of cases of congenital heart disease, and it is so characteristic of these cases that they have been spoken of as instances of "morbus can-uleus." The discoloration varies greatly in degree. When well marked it is deeper than that pro- duced by almost any other pathological condition. It is visible all over the body, but is especially noticeable in the extremities (fingers, nose, ears, etc.), and on the visible mucous membranes. When severe it may be accompanied by some puffiness of the features, but oedema of the extremities is rare, and only occurs late in the course of the case. The cyanosis is usually present at birth and persists during life, but it may only come on when the patient is several years old. Its degree varies from day to day according to the general health of the patient. The cyanosis of congenital heart disease differs from: other forms of cyanosis in degree rather than in kind. It is important to re- member, however, that cyanosis is not met with to any appreciable extent in childhood as a resiUt of post - natal endocarditis; its presence always, therefore, indicates a congenital lesion (either developmental or from endocar- ditis). The causation of the extreme cyanosis in these cases has long engaged the attention of the medical profession, and several explanations of it have been suggested. (1) The view that it is due to admixtiu-e of the venous and arterial blood allowed by their defective separation in the abnormal heart is to