INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 549 be swallowed except a few sips of water as hot as can be tolerated, and this should be limited to as small a quantity as the patient's craving for drink will allow. At the end of eight hours, as the effect of the narcotic begins to wear off, if the symptoms return operation should be advised. When the symptoms, then, are not sufficiently definite, and the diagnosis still remains doubtful, my practice is to order calomel in one-grain doses every hour until five grains have been taken, and after the fifth dose to administer a turpentine enema (one ounce of turpentine in a tumblerful of barley-water), followed by one pint of soap and water. If the case is one of obstruction, the symptoms, which are likely to have disappeared soon after the opiate has been given, will probably all be reproduced by this treatment, and the best chance—that given by early operation—is secured. If the case is not one of obstruction this treatment is likely to be the best available, for the cases most closely simulating acute intestinal obstruction are those of so-called colic which occur in young men from eighteen to twenty-five, and are due to chronic constipation and partial retention of fseces. If the case is not seen until the abdomen has become distended, and the symptoms have all been rendered less aggressive by repeated doses of opium, the question of operation has lost much of its urgency. The condition of the patient may be very serious, but operation may not afford the best chance of recovery. I have seen such seriously ill persons recover under medical measures who, so far as I could judge, would have died had they been subjected to the shock of operation. The most favourable cases for recovery, without operation, and they only should be left alone, are those in which the obstruction is not absolutely complete. A little flatus may have been passed, and occasionally peristaltic movements may be perceived in the distended intestines. The contents of the stomach are expelled with vigour, and vomiting gives relief; quantities of nourishment can be retained and absorbed. The distension is not so great as to produce difficulty in breathing or marked tension of the abdominal walls, and is not increasing. The pulse is not growing more rapid or its vigour decreasing. In the less acute cases, when vomiting has ceased, small quantities of liquid nourishment, half milk and half barley-water, probably being the best, may be tried; and if this is tolerated by the stomach, additions may be carefully and gradually made as the conditions allow. The three most material palliative aids to recovery are:—Washing out the stomach, large nutrient enemata, and repeated small doses of opium. Persons differ much in their tolerance of stomach lavage, and it must be allowed that occasionally persistence with it may do more harm than good. The tube used should be a red rubber one, which the patient is assisted to swallow, and attached to it should be a glass "T-piece to act on the principle of Sprengel's pump, as neither the efforts of the distended stomach nor the aid of ordinary syphon action may be sufficient to empty the stomach of all its contents. The washing should be done with water at a temperature of 102° F., and continued until the wash water returns clear. If this operation is to be of service the patient must feel relieved by it, and will consider the gain greater than the discomfort to which he has been subjected, and this should be the test as to its usefulness and; as to the desirability of repeating the proceeding. If the use of the tube is found to be too disagreeable, the best substitute is to allow the patient an occasional hot drink (a pint of very weak hot tea without sugar or milk is nearly always to his taste). This is soon ejected, bringing with it a quantity of the foul stomach contents. Very soon after the stomach is emptied it commences to refill from the discharge of the distended intestine into it, and the washing requires to be repeated every four hours. Inability to bear the tube should be regarded as indicating the advisability of early operation. No food should be allowed to enter the stomach so long as sickness is a prominent symptom. Food and fluids introduced into the stomach only add to the sufferings of the patient, and often diminish what small chance of recovery is left to him. To relieve the intense thirst sips of hot water may be frequently given, and the mouth may be sluiced round with cold water as often as desired by the patient. Ice gives only temporary relief, and does permanent harm. It makes the mouth sore and the tongue dry; it fills the stomach with cold water, and increases flatulent distension. All nutriment should be administered by the colon. The best method of doing this is to give slowly through a rectal tube and raised funnel one pint of a mixture of fatty beef-tea and milk in equal parts, with one teaspoonful of salt and half an ounce of whisky at a tem- perature of 100° F. every two or three hours. The first two or three pints are frequently re- tained when given in this way, whereas the intermittent pumping action of the ordinary enema-syringe commonly used for this purpose stimulates the bowel to expel the injected fluid. When the enemata begin to come away, it is, of course, a favourable omen if some flatus is passed at the same time. Diminution of the abdominal distension, as shown by careful measurement round the umbilicus, is also a favourable sign. If the enemata are retained for twenty-four hours it is necessary to ad- minister a quart of salt water to clear out the offensive debris, as in all cases where food is