233 HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF of the joint, and if it is carried out gently and without jerking there is no complaint of pain. The movements should be practised on the sound limb in the first instance in order to reassure the child that no violence is contem- plated. The child should lie on its back, either on its mother's knee or on a table. On slowly flexing the thigh of the affected limb, it will be found that the range of flexion at the hip is soon exhausted, and that any further flexion takes place at the lumbo-sacral junction. The child is then made to lie on its face with the knees flexed in order to test the movements of rotation ; the thigh is rotated outwards and inwards, and on comparing the two sides it will be found that rotation is restricted or abolished on the side affected, any apparent rotation tak- ing place at the lumbo-sacral junction. These tests, as they may be called, reveal the presence of rigidity which results from the involuntary contraction of muscles ; it is the most reliable sign of hip disease during the stage of onset; the procedure recommended has the decided advantage of being universally applicable, even in the case of very young children. If there should still exist any doubt as to the presence or absence of hip disease, the examination de- scribed should be repeated from week to week until one is able to arrive at a definite con- clusion. Second Stage.—The patient now presents more evident symptoms of hip disease, and usually exhibits the attitude of abduction, eversion, ami flexion. This stage probably corresponds with commencing disease of the articular surfaces and progi'essive involvement of all the structures of the joint. The attitude described would appear to be the result of muscular action. The original view of Bonnet, that it is caused by distension of the capsule of the joint, is no longer accepted. The most reasonable explanation of the various attitudes assumed in hip disease is that given by Kdnig; if the patient walks without crutches, as he is usually able to do at this stage, the attitude of abduction, eversion, and slight flexion enables him to save the limb to the utmost extent; on the other hand, if he uses a crutch, as he is obliged to do at a more advanced stage of the disease, he no longer uses the limb for support, but draws it upwards and inwards into the position of adduction, inversion, and greater flexion; similarly, if he is confined to bed he lies on the sound side, and the affected limb sinks by gravity so as to lie over the normal one in the position of adduction, inversion, and flexion. Kdnig's explanation accords with the fact that in the exceptional cases which begin with adduction and inversion, we have usually to deal with a more severe type of the disease associated with grave osseous lesions, precisely those cases in which the patient is compelled to adopt the use of crutches or to lie up at an early period. Similarly the transition from the abducted to the adducted position is usually associated with such an aggravation of the symptoms that the patient is no longer able to walk without assistance. The combination of abduction, eversion, and flexion, although characteristic of the stage of hip disease at present under consideration, is not constant; the proportion of the different elements not only varies in different cases, but one or other element may be wanting, e.g. abduction and eversion may occur without flexion. The abnormal attitude is at first entirely maintained by the action of muscles, but where it is very prolonged or becomes permanent, the muscles, fascire, and ligaments undergo shorten- ing, so that it is continued without muscular effort. Compensation of Abduction, Eversion, and Flexion; apparent Lengthening of the Limb.— On first looking at the patient the abnormal attitude may be largely concealed, because the patient usually restores the parallelism of the limbs, by lowering the pelvis on the affected side, and adducting the sound limb; this obliquity or tilting of the pelvis causes appar- ent lengthening on the diseased side; it is best demonstrated by drawing one straight line between the anterior iliac spines and another to meet it from the ensiform cartilage through the umbilicus; if the pelvis is in its normal or horizontal position, the two lines intersect one another at right angles ; if it is tilted, the angles at the point of intersection are unequal. The flexion of the thigh may be largely compensated for by increasing the forward curve of the lumbar spine (lordosis), and by flexing the leg at the knee. To demonstrate the lordosis the patient should be laid on a flat table; when the thigh is flexed the lumbar spine is in contact with the table; when the thigh is extended the spine arches forwards so that one may insert the hand or the closed fist beneath it. In order to estimate the angle of flexion in any individual patient he should lie with the spine pressed flat on the table; the point is then determined, when, on attempting to extend the thigh, the spine begins to arch ; the angle which the thigh forms with the surface of the table can be readily measured. There may also be an attempt to compensate for the eversion of the limb by rotating the pelvis forwards on the affected side. If the functions of the joint are tested by the methods already referred to, it will be found that there is more or less complete rigidity, and that both active and passive movements take place at the lumbo-sacral junction instead of at the hip. While the rigidity is usually absolute as regards rotation, it may sometimes be possible with care and gentleness to obtain a little increase of flexion ; for diagnostic purposes most stress should therefore be laid on the pi-esence