INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF 512 tution than in private care. Generally, the graver the disorder of conduct, the more pro- nounced the malady, the more suitable is the case for treatment in an institution; and vice versa. The age of the patient is a factor of some importance in coming to a decision. We are very reluctant to send a young girl or a lad to an institution for lunatics if such a course can be avoided. So long as the savour of the " madhouse " clings to these institutions in the mind of the public, so long as any remnant of that semi - superstitious horror remains with which the ignorant public is apt to regard them, so long we must avoid, if it be possible to avoid, sending to them young people who have all their careers before them, and whose future lives may be more seriously affected by the reputation of having been in a lunatic asylum than by the reputation of having been unsound in mind. Lastly, the means of the patient is a factor of considerable importance. Private care is, as a rule, a more expensive mode of control than care in an institution, and when the amount of control that is needed is great the disproportion is correspondingly great. A patient who needs continuous supervision both by day and by night, will in private care need the services of at least two attendants, and if the supervision is prolonged, of three; and attendants whose services are temporarily engaged, as in private care, demand much higher wages than those whose engagements are permanent. In an institution the same patient would not need the exclusive services of these attendants, and each attendant would be less costly ; so that if expense is a consideration the institution is to be chosen. As these are the main factors in determining whether the patient shall be sent to an institu- tion or treated in private care, so are they the main factors in determining whether resort shall be had to legal process for restricting the power of the patient over his own conduct. If the case be one of mere dementia no such resort is needed, unless for reasons of expense or convenience it is determined to send the patient to an institution, and the sending must be legalised. Mere dements are already deprived by their malady of the control of their conduct; and no intervention is necessary to do what the disease has already done. All that they require is the same supervision and nursing that is required by children of equivalent intelligence. In the case of minors whose conduct needs more active control, certification can usually be avoided, since they arc not yet fully swi juris, and the authority of the parent to control their conduct does not, except in severe cases, need to be rein- forced by the special provision of the lunacy law. If the parent chooses to say to his child, " I have made arrangements for you to leave home and to be placed in the care of So and so, to whose authority you must submit," the child has no alternative but to obey. When an adult is but slightly affected by unsoundness of mind, and is himself aware of his unsoundness, and desirous of placing himself imder treatment, then of course he may make whatever arrangements he pleases for relinquishing the control of portions of his affairs. He may give power of attorney to whomsoever he pleases to deal with his estate, and he may take what advice seems to him judicious and desirable as to the disposal of other departments of his conduct. He may place himself in private care or in an institution as seems best. Advice is often given, especially by neurologists who have no special knowledge of insanity, but are frequently consulted with regard to it, that the patient should travel, either by himself, or with a friend, or imder the care of an attendant, medical or other. Such advice is rarely judicious. The object of suggesting a change of surround- ings is to liberate the patient from the necessity of regulating his conduct in certain departments; to reduce the call upon function. But in travel- ling, while if he relinquishes the care of his estate, the call upon function is diminished in this direction, it is manifestly increased in others. The constant change of surroundings brings of necessity the constant need of changes of con- duct in adaptation to the changes of surround- ings, and the relief that is obtained in one direction is nullified by the increased demand that is made in others; so that we find in practice that in the early stages of mental disorder travelling is not beneficial. The cases in which it is most commonly advised are cases of slight melancholia, and the advice is given from the analogy of the relief from care that is gained by jaded men of business from a holiday with change of scene. But the two cases are not analogous. The jaded man of business has lost the elasticity of his spirits from a too com- plete engrossment in the cares of business,— from the circumstances in which he acts. His depression is due to, and proportionate to the stress of circumstances upon him, and when relieved from the stress of circumstances he recovers. But with the melancholic it is other- wise. However uiuch the stress of circumstances may have contributed to the establishment of his malady, it is, when established, independent of his circumstances. The definition of melan- cholia is that it is a state of misery that is not justified by the circumstances of the patient; and thei'efore the mere relief from these circum- stances is not sufficient to remove it. What the melancholic, with his conviction of his own incompetence, needs, is circumstances that make no demand upon his incompetence; and these circumstances are not to be found in travelling. Let him leave home by all means ; but let him go to some one spot and there remain, in surroundings in which demands upon his faculty of regulating his own conduct are minimised.