DISEASES OF 536 INTESTINES, made for the characteristic spherules of the fungus in the stools, in the discharge of abscess if the case has arrived at this stage, and in the urine. On the detection of these only can a positive opinion be formed. Ransom says— " When a subacute or chronic inflammation occurs which spreads without much elective affinity for any tissue or viscus, which is hard, even woody, to the touch, involves the skin, softens in the centre slowly, at length yields pus in scanty proportions relative to the bulk of the swelling, and does not heal when freely opened and drained, it is almost certainly an infective malady, and actinomycosis may be strongly suspected, and the spherules and colonies should be sought for." Treatment.—Large doses of iodide of potas- sium, at least one drachm daily, is the most hopeful remedy, and, it is said, may cure. Ransom reports such a case. Intestinal anti- septics also aifoi'd relief. If a palpable tumour exist it should be freely opened and drained. If circumstances permit, it is possible that scraping or any means to eradicate the then apparent lesion are justifiable, in spite of the fact that other organs or tissues may be involved. (Vide also " Actinomycosis " and " Appendicitis.") Intestines, Surg^ical Affections of. Intestinal Obstruction Introductory 536 Classification— 1. St7-angulation hy Bands, etc. . 537 2. Defects of Position, e.g. Intussus- ception, Volvulus, Kinks, etc. . 538 3. Blocking hy Foreign Bodies, e.g. Gall-stones, etc. . . ■ .540 4. Strictures—Simple and Malignant 540 5. Paralytic Ileus .... 541 The Diagnosis— (a) Symptoms and Physical Signs in Acute Cases . . . .541 (b) Syrriptoms and Physical Signs in Chronic Cases . . . . 542 (c) Differeritial Diagnosis of Site of Lesion .... . 543 (d) Dijjferential Diagnosis of Cause of Lesion 544 Prognosis 546 {a) Acute Intestinal Obstruction . 546 {b) Chronic Intestinal Obstruction . 547 Treatment 548 Intestinal obstruction is caused only by mechani- cal obstacles, and surgical consideration is de- manded from the outset. A sudden complete obstruction of any part of the small or large intestine causes the same serious symptoms as are met with in strangulated hernia, and the pathological conditions produced above the ob- struction (and these are far the most important) ai-e the same in both. It is therefore obvious that if as early surgical treatment could be adopted in cases of intestinal obstruction as in cases of strangulated hernia, the present bad results, which every surgeon deplores, would at once improve. The difficulty of early diagnosis, more than anything else, contributes to fatal delay. A careful and intelligent practitioner can scarcely make any mistake when he sees and feels a strangulated hernia, but the diagnosis of a similar condition hidden in the abdomen is surrounded by difficulties. For the first few hours in a case of sudden complete obstruction, the symptoms produced are those brought about by any condition which may cause a profound impression on the abdom- inal nerves, and are those of abdominal shock. Many serious abdominal lesions, such as per- forated gastric or duodenal ulcer, ruptured vermiform appendix, leaking ectopic gestation, gall-stones, etc., are attended by symptoms which are indistinguishable from those occur- ring in the early stage of sudden obstruction. That they are due to nervous influence in cases of obstruction is proved by experiments on animals, which show that vomiting and other acute manifestations do not follow artificial con- striction of the intestine when the mesenteric nerves supplying it have been previously divided. This knowledge also helps to an understanding of the marvellous relief following the use of opium. The second stage soon follows on the first. Shock is recovered from, and the typical symp- toms and signs of obstruction are now more likely to be met with than at any other time, if carefully looked for. These are produced by a vigorous attempt on the part of the intestine to get rid of the obstruction by forcible contractions in its unstriated muscular coat. The forcible contraction of unstriated muscle, here as else- where, induces the most agonising pain, in great part intermittent, and many patients already more or less familiar with intestinal pain, as most of us are, will at this stage express a confident belief that if only wind could be voided they would soon be well again. Shortly, and not slowly, the vigorous contractions cease ; the intestines become more distended, gas and fluid increasing, and the third stage of intestinal paralysis is reached. This is accompanied by venous engorgement in the intestine above the obstruction, most marked in its immediate neighbourhood, but rapidly involving higher and higher portions, due to interference with the blood circulation by distension. Following the circulatory disturbance there is an increased quantity of fluid poured into the intestine, absorption being at the same time checked. Increased gas formation from the putrid con- tents helps to further the distension. Free fluid is also found in the peritoneal cavity, and in the most acute cases may contain suffi-