INDIGESTION 383 and has been traced in a few instances to heredi- tary influence. 3. Functional Signs and Symptoms.—These denote the numerous errors of secretory and digestive power. The methods of examining the contents of stomach and the significance which attaches to their results have already been fully discussed in an earlier article. It will sufiice here to introduce a scheme of classi- fication indicative of the relationship between altered characters of the stomach contents and indigestion in many of its forms :— Classification of Gastric Conditions with REGARD TO THE CHARACTERS OF THE StOMACH Contents, Chemical and Physical I. Acidity. A. Normal. In health; hepatic dyspepsia; cancer of cardiac orifice and oesophagus; erosions; nervous and anaemic dys- pepsia. B. Hyperacidity. 1. Hydrochloric acid increased. In gastric ulcer, and erosions; from nervous causes; in some cases of dilated stomach; occa- sionally in cancer following ulcer. 2. Hydrochloric acid diminished; or- ganic acids increased. In cancer of the pylorus and pyloric region; dilatation of the stomach ; nervous dyspepsia ; the later stages of gastric ulcer ; chronic catarrh ; atonic dyspepsia. C. Hyperacidity. 1. Without organic acid fermenta- tion. Hypochlorhydria without fer- mentation ; at beginning of acute gastritis, or during convalescence from it ] cancer of the stomach (rarely) ; cirrhosis ventriculi ; during acute or chronic febrile and cachectic disorders (on occasion). 2. With organic acid fermentation. Chronic catarrh; atrophy of the mucous membrane ; cancer; waxy degeneration; cirrhosis ; acute febrile diseases ; dilated stomach without pronounced stasis; phlegmonous gastritis. II. Digestive power. A. Normal.—In health ; gastric ulcer; nervous dyspepsia ; many cases of oesophageal and cardiac cancer; early catarrh. B. Increased. — Gastric ulcer ; nervous hyperchlorhydria ; often in diabetes. C. Diminished. — Cancer of stomach ; chronic catarrh; atony; dilated stomach with catarrh ; nervous dys- pepsia ; acute gastritis; acute fevers; cirrhosis. III. Length of stay in stomach. A. Normal. In health; gastroptosis without ob- struction ; nervous dyspepsia ; gas- tric ulcer. B. Shortened. Hyperchlorhydria ; hyperperistalsis ; insufiiciency of pylorus ; gastric ulcer (rarely), diabetes. C. Lengthened. 1. Diminished peristalsis. Nervous dyspepsia ; cancer ; dilatation ; pyloric stenosis ; cicatrices of old ulcers. 2. Decreased power of digestion. Cancer; chronic and atrophic catarrh ; acute gastritis. 3. From both causes. Cirrhosis of stomach; dilated stomach with catarrh; many nervous dyspep- sias ; hypersecretion (fluid re- maining in form of gastric juice, not of food). Cancer at later stages. IV. Specific gravity (after filtration). 1. Normal. After a meal 1010-1020. 2. Increased. Hyperacidity 1020-f 3. Diminished. Hyperacidity 1010 — V. Blood. 1. Bright red, copious, coagulable. Gastric ulcer. 2. Darker, copious, clotted. Gastric ulcer or cancer ; duodenal ulcer (rarely). 3. Bright red or brown, smaller amount. Gastric erosions, chronic ulcer, with weak cicatrix ; acute gastritis ; hepatic congestion; venous engorgement. 4. "Coff"ee grounds." Cancer, especially with atony and dilatation. Special Forms op Indigestion Hemicrania (Migraine, Megrim, Sick-head- ache).—The subject of megrim, its nature and significance, to be adequately discussed, would require a volume to itself. The question whether hemicranial attacks are species of nerve-torna- does, as advanced by Liveing, are auto-toxsemic in origin, are caused by both of these factors in combination, or derived from various other suggested sources, boasts of so extensive a litera- ture and has been so diversely answered that it is hopeless to go fully into it here. To the writer the most probable theory, and the one capable of the widest application, ascribes the exciting cause to a sudden overflow of abnormal nerve force, similar to that which occasions epileptic seizures, but expended upon sensory and functional nervous mechanisms in lieu of motor areas, incited thereto by the presence of poisonous substances in the blood, the products of insufficient metabolism, which, when they