74 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM Renal Conditions . . . .108 Sj^leen 109 Digestive Tract . . . .109 Cerebral Symptoyns . . .110 Vascular fSi/mptotus . . .110 Thrombosis . . . . .110 The Embolic Process . . .111 Malignant Endocarditis . . 113 Physical Examination— Inspection . . . . .115 Palpation . . . . .117 Percussion . . . . .118 Auscultation . . . .120 Physical Signs of the Different Forms OF Heart Disease— Aortic Stenosis . . . .125 Pulse in ... . 126 Aortic Incompetence . . .127 Pulse in . . . .128 Mitral Stenosis . . . .129 Pulse in . . . .131 Mitral Incompetence . . .132 JIuscle Failure . . . .134 Pulse in . . . .135 Treatment— Introduction . . . .136 Rest and Exercise . . .136 Diet 139 Medicinal Treatment . . .141 The first part of this article consists of a con- sideration of all the various etiological factors, pathological processes, and their cardiac and systemic effects, followed by a description of the recognised types of heart disease. Secondly : The symptoms produced by heart- failure irrespective of its special cause are con- sidered, and certain peculiarities associated with special forms of disease are referred to. Thirdly : The physical signs of the different varieties of heart disease are described in detail, and their common combinations according to the pathological state that gives them origin are sketched. Fourthly : The treatment—hygienic, dietetic, and medicinal—of heart disease is considered. It is evident that a pathological knowledge should precede the study of symptomatology, I^hysical examination, and the principles of treatment, inasmuch as these last three can only be profitably studied in the light of patho- logical experience. As regards their symptom- atology we are entitled to consider nearly all the forms of heart disease together, seeing that they all tend to, and generally eventuate in, that condition we term venous stasis, in which the blood accumulates, as it were, on the venous side of the circulation, giving rise to the ordin- ary symptoms to be described, while stasis of blood in the chambers of the heart is the com- mon cause of the embolic process and its clinical manifestations. If, as physicians, we are ever to keep before us the " tendency to death " in the case we are treating, then in heart disease the expression of that " tendency" is venous stasis. It is by physical examination and the signs thereby elicited that differentiation of the various forms of heart disease is accomplished. But as regards treatment, inasmuch as it is to the heart muscle practically alone that our efforts are directed, it is allowable again to generalise, and to consider together all varieties of heai't disease. The pathological considerations that precede symptomatology, etc., will amply demonstrate the importance of obtaining in every heart case an accurate account of the patient's previous health, for without this it is impossible to inter- pret aright either the symptoms or the signs, to forecast the probable course that will be run, and to treat the patient with the best prospect of success. A. GENERAL PATHOLOGY I. Etiology 1. Exciting Causes.—These are best con- sidered according to the nature of the excitant. (1) Mechanical.— The cardio-vascular appa- ratus has long been viewed as a machine, and cardiac physics have very rightly become a recognised branch of physiological study. But while it is necessary to avoid the fettering influ- ences of a mere mechanical conception, the action of physical agencies must be admitted as pro- ducing or inducing temporary derangements and sometimes establishing permanent defects. Occasionally excessive exercise or unwonted exertion in a subject absolutely or virtually sound seems to act on the cardiac -muscle or the aortic segments as an acute strain. Even trained athletes after exceptional physical effort have manifested evidences of cardiac derangement. Not a few cases are on record where in seemingly healthy adults after some unusual effort physical examination has clearly demonstrated a condition of cardiac dilatation. Prolonged exercise, such as is illustrated by some athletic sports, is peculiarly liable to exert strain on the right ventricle, but it must be admitted that such most usually occurs in the untrained or those constitutionally untrainable and unfit for athletic pursuits. The effects of excessive physical effort or ill-regulated drill on young recruits, and the consequences of forced marches even on seasoned men, is well known, and "soldier's heart" has become a well- defined clinical entity. As might be expected, the effects of mechanical influences are most frecpiently met with in men, and particularly during the years of greatest activitj^ and physical vigour. The consequences of violent effort are to be clearly distinguished from those of chronic strain. Many laborious occupations necessitate the maintenance of a state of persistent or long-