HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 94 mitteiit pyrexia, the spleen was of enormous size. The average weight in 55 cases was a little over 16 oz. The great variation in size and weight will be seen from the following figures :—One weighed 70 oz., 2 over 30 oz., 15 between 20 oz. and 30 oz., 24 between 10 oz. and 20 oz. In a few instances the spleen was not appreciably enlarged post-mortem. Nephritis mainly of a parenchymatous type existed in 11 cases. " Granular " kidney was met with once. Acute septic meningitis was noted twice. In another case puriform fluid was found witliin the lateral ventricles. Cerebral softening existed in 3, in 2 being manifestly of embolic origin. Meningeal haemorrhages occurred twice. Extensive cerebral hfemorrhages were present in 3, and in only one could a distinct embolus be found. Embolism of the femoral occurred once. Pus in the joints was present twice, and boils were also noted in 2 cases. Morbid Histology.—The action of the micro- organisms leads to changes which are partly (i.) necrotic, but iu other portions (ii.) inflammatory. Where the endocardium is far removed from vessels, as in the greater part of the valves, unless sclerosed, the former process is predominant, but where the microbic invasion occurs in proximity to vascular regions an inflammatory exudation speedily follows. The action of the organisms or their toxins leads at first to rapid degeneration and later to molecular death of the infected tissues, and the cheniico-physical changes in the affected part produce clotting over the diseased structures. In vascular regions extensive inflammatory exu- dation occurs. The leucocytes are collected sometimes in sufficient numbers to constitute distinct areas of suppuration. In less acute cases proliferation of the connective-tissue elements occurs. The endothelium and portions of the necrosed tissue are readily detached, and the projecting celkilar elements becoming the seat of deposits of fibrin form irregular, soft vegeta- tions. By the separation of the dead tissue and the detachment of the vegetation iilcers are produced. Ulceration and the formation of vegetations are usually met with in association. Suitable staining reagents demonstrate the presence of the infecting micro-organisms in the affected parts. Post - mortem examination of these cases should include a full and complete bacterio- logical investigation of the blood, vegetations, splenic pulp, and secondary foci when present. Every care must be taken to prevent any extra- neous contamination. Particulars as to tech- nique will be found in the ordinary works on bacteriology. Pathological Chemistry.—Recent researches have shown that the products of the growth of certain organisms taken from cases of infective endocarditis are of the nature, the one of a pro- teid consisting of proto-albumosc and deutero- albumose, and the other, a non-proteid body with strong acid reaction. II. Valvular Affections Before considering the various morbid condi- tions producing inefficiency of the individual valves, reference may be made to certain general pathological features ; for it is only by the pains- taking comparison of clinical phenomena with the results of pathological investigation, that mere vague generalisations or inaccurate deduc- tions can be successfully overturned. Etiology.—The precise nature of the influences predisposing to or exciting valvular disease is in only too many instances far from clear. In some the morbific influence operates during intra- uterine development. The agencies producing valvular disease are frequently so combined as to render a strict difl^erentiation into predisposing and exciting influences impossible. It would seem that in many instances a distinctly extraneous agent can only exert its pathogenic power when assisted by intrinsic conditions tending to lower the general or local resistance of the body, or to increase the physiological work of the part affected. Un- doubtedly infective agents hold an important position as excitants, and there is every reason to believe that toxic bodies, either of autogenetic or heterogenetic origin, play an important part in the etiology of valvular disease of the heart. Heredity.—Family transmission of a tendency to valvular disease may be admitted as a possi- bility, but acting probably by the continuance of constitutional disease or hereditary depravity of tissue. The importance of the vascular system, and with it, of necessity, the central organ in relation to heredity, cannot be doubted. The family connection of coronary disease and angina pectoris is clearly established. States of high arterial tension also seem to "run in families," and several children of the same parents may suffer from an apparently similar form of cardiac inadequacy. Race, as far as is known, is not of particular etiological import- ance. Sex plays a determining part, as indicated by the fact that mitral stenosis is commonest in women, while aortic disease is most fi-equent in men. This influence of sex would seem to be mainly dependent on exposure to exciting condi- tions ; thus rheumatic alTections are undoubtedly most usually met with in females ; while males, by their occupation or exposure to agencies pro- ducing arterial and muscular degenerative changes, are most liable to valvular defects from an aortitis implicating the function of the valves in one way or another. Age.—Valvular defects, as already indicated, may originate during iutra-uterine life. During the period of normal development, childhood, and early adult life, morbid processes of an in- flammatory nature, and usually rheumatic in