HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 123 of maximum intensity. Incompetence of the tricuspid valves is a very common consequence of disease, of one kind or another, affecting the left chambers of the heart, whereby the blood- pressure in the pulmonaiy circuit is much raised. In comparatively a very few cases there is stenosis of both mitral and tricuspid orifices, but the left lesion is always far in advance of the right. In such cases it is common for the simple murmurs of tricuspid and mitral regvu-gitation to have been the only murmurs observed during life. In the immense majority of cases of heart disease in which the murmur of tricuspid in- competence is found, there is no lesion of the tricuspid valves at all, and their incompetence is simply the result of muscle failure of the right ventricle. When a systolic murmur is heard at the apex we assume that the mitral A'alves have become incompetent, though the possibility of the murmur of aortic stenosis being conducted to the apex is difficult to deny altogether. Taken practically, the question is not one of great importance, and, given aortic stenosis, sooner or later the mitral valves are likely to become incompetent. In all forms of muscle failure of the heart mitral incompetence is very apt to arise, and with it the murmur we are con- sidering. Then there are the cases in which this murmur resiilts from actual damage to the valve curtains, rendering them incompetent. Rheumatism and septic endocarditis are the usual causes of the damage, bvit the latter is ■by far the more destructive to the valve struc- tiu-es, though the disease is comparatively rare ; while in rheumatism, which is common, the damage to the vulve is apt to be much less in the first instance, although the chronic pro- cess set up very frequently eventuates in stenosis of the orifice. Lastly, when mitral stenosis is thoroughly established, the necessarily deformed curtains, very commoiily indeed, are, either per- manently or fi'ora time to time, incompetent, so that the murmur of mitral incompetence is the most common of all the murmurs met with in cases of stenosis. Thus it happens that when a systolic murmur is loudest at the apex of the heart we associate it at once with mitral incompetence, and we have to ask ourselves practically these three questions : (a) Are the valves healthy, and is their incompetence the result of muscle failure of the heart? {h) Is there structural damage of the valve curtains rendering them incompetent, but without sten- osis of the orifice 1 (c) Is there stenosis of the orifice ? (2) The next murmur, the rhythm of which we have to consider in relation to the mitral and tricuspid orifices, is the diastolic. During the diastole of the ventricles blood is passing- through the auriculo-ventricular orifices, and the condition of these orifices that produces a diastolic murmur is stenosis. (This statement makes no account of the very rare occurrence of a diastolic murmur in simple cardiac dila- tation alluded to in another part of this article, p. 13.5; vide Practitioner, vol. lii. p. 254.) Tri- cuspid stenosis is a rare lesion, and a diastolic murmiu" is only very exceptionally produced by it, so that we may direct our attention exclusively to the mitral diastolic murmur, which is a common sign in cases of mitral stenosis. The murmur is usually best heard at the apex, but is less strictly limited to this spot than is the murmur to be next considered, being often audible over the vent- ricles between the apex and the lower part of the sternum. In rare instances it is widely distributed over the cardiac surface, so that when, as is usually the case, there is an accompanying systolic murmur, the double murmur may be, as far as sound goes, indis- tinguishable from the familiar " double aortic " murmur of aortic incompetence (vide Med. Chron. (1896), vol. vi. p. 174). The diastolic murmur of mitral stenosis, unlike the murmur next to be described, is somewhat diminuendo in character. The current of blood through the constricted orifice producing this murmur has both a vis a fronte and a vis a tergo in its production : the expanding left ventricle and the blood-pressure in the pulmonary circuit de- rived from the contraction of the right ventricle. (3) The last murmur we have to consider is the auricular systolic or presystolic murmur of auriculo-ventricular stenosis. Like the last murmur, it is much more frequently produced in the left side of the heart, though a tricuspid presystolic murmur does very rarely occur. In several respects, as well as in its rhythm, this murmur differs from all the other murmurs with whicii clinical experience has made us familiar. As regards its rhythm, it immediately precedes the first sound, thus occurring during the latter portion of ventricular diastole. It is crescendo in character, and it is brought abruptly to a close with the first sound (modi- fied as we have found) tvhen the murmur is at its greatest intensity. This combination of crescendo murmur and first sound lends itself well to the usually accepted view as to the mode of production of the murmur by the current of blood resulting from the contraction of the auricle, for we can imagine the auricle expelling the blood with increasing force as its capacity diminishes, and we can understand the abrupt cessation of murmur at the moment of its greatest loudness, for how can the thin- walled auricle contend for an instant against the mass of muscle composing the left ventricle ? Evidentlj^, directly the ventricle enters into con- traction, the current of blood issuing from the constricted orifice must be brought to a stand- still. (ii.) Situation of Maximum Intensity of