372 IMMUNITY capable of uniting with antitoxin, the other poisonous (or but slightly so). The former he named the hapto^yhore, the latter the toxophore group. Ehrlich conceives the living cell as possessing a constitution analogous to the ring of the Benzene molecule, to which, as a centre, outlying- molecules are attached. These outlying groups CH COH NOjC HC CNO2 CH \/ CNO2 Trinitrobenzene. or molecules, side-chains or receptors, are sup- posed to play an important part in the nutrition and life of cell by combining with food mole- cules, oxygen, etc., circulating in the blood. They are, moreover, the mechanism through which toxins are able to act on the cell. The toxin molecule becomes attached by its hapto- phore group to the corresponding side - chain, whereupon the toxophore group comes into relation with the cell protoplasm. The cell may thereby be irretrievably damaged, or short of this, the side-chain alone may be destroyed. In the latter event the cell at once sets to work to produce new side-chains, and at last, as the result of repeated doses of poison, these are formed in excess of the cell's requirements, and are thrown off into the circulating blood. When the side - chain is free in the plasma and becomes attached to the haptophore group of a toxin molecule the toxophore group is rendered impotent by being deprived of the only means through which it can anchor itself to, and damage the tissues. Antitoxin, therefore, is simply blood serum containing large numbers of free side-chains. The theory also admits of an explanation of the phenomena of haemolysis, etc. When an animal receives a large enough dose of foreign red blood corpuscles, its metabolism is interfered with, and it may be killed. It is supposed that this takes place through the union of red blood corpuscles, or their products, with certain somatic cells. Should the dose be less, immimisation takes place, and, as has been shown, an immune serum containing complement and amboceptor can be obtained, the amboceptor, it will be re- membered, possessing the power of attaching itself to red blood corpuscles. Like antitoxin, this immune serum owes its properties to con- taining cast-off side-chains which the attack of the red blood corpuscles has stimulated the body cells to produce in excess. These side-chains, therefore, constitute the immune body, and act by attaching themselves to red blood corpuscles on the one hand and complement on the other, whereby the latter is able to lyse the former. Immune body, therefore, acts as a copula and has two affinities—it possesses two haptophore groups, one complementophile, the other cyto- phile. The action of the complement is con- ceived of as resembling that of a ferment; it must also possess two groups—one concerned in the destruction of blood corpuscles, which is called the zymophore, the other, by which it anchors itself to copula, called again haptophore. Fischer suggests as a simile that if we consider the cell as a lock and the copula as a key, the complement is the hand which turns the key. Many hands may do this, but only one key will fit the lock (Fig. 1). Antitoxin Formation. Cell hemolysis. ""Red blood corpuscle. 0* Toxophore "Irj. = Haptophore/ Haptophore side-chain. (Antitoxin. Receptor of first order.) Toxin—Antitoxin. Cytophile haptophore Amboceptor. [-Immune body. Complementophile haptophore J Receptor of third order. Immune body uniting corpuscle—lysis. Fig. 1. complement to blood Biological Aspects of the Side-Chain Theory.—• The chief implications of the theory, perhaps, concern its bearing on the nutritive processes going on in living protoplasm. Ehrlich con- siders that the mechanism in question is that through which food is assimilated by the cells, and when we remember how closely many of the bodies employed in producing immunity resemble foods the plausibility of the supposition is at once evident. According to the author of the theory, three kinds of receptors, or side- chains, play a part in the nutrition of the cell. First, there is the case of a food molecule ready for assimilation; a single haptophore group will anchor this. Such a receptor of the first order is analogous to the simple side-chains of which anti- toxin is composed. If, however, the food mole- cule requires further preparation to render it