280 HYDROPATHY Careful attention must be paid to the condition of the heart, which will, of course, govern the duration of the bath : this is usually 10 to 30 minutes. The patient must be carefully lifted in the sheet and replaced in bed on a hot blanket, with a hot water bottle to the feet. After a short time both sheet and blanket may be drawn away. The bath should be repeated as often as the temperature reaches 105°. The writer has known as many as eight baths given in twenty-four hours with recovery of patient. Enteric Fever.—Various opinions are held by competent authorities as to the respective value of cold baths, cooling packs, cooling towels, and cold sponging in this disease ; but nearly all are in agreement as to the benefit derived from one or other of these methods. The advocates of the routine bath treatment say that whenever the temperature rises above 103° the patient should be immersed in a bath at 90°, cooled down to 70° or even 60°. Period of immersion, 10 to 20 minutes; the method of administration being as before described. The objection to this treatment is that it needs to be given with the greatest skill and care, as, when bowel complications are present, much damage may be done by injudicious movement, and preference is often given to the following- methods :— Cold pack, as before described. This method may be continued until the temperature falls below 100°. Cooling Towels.—Pieces of thick Turkish towelling, 2 feet by 1 foot, are wrung out of tepid water and applied from the top of the chest to lower part of abdomen, across the front of the body, and a piece of flannel placed over them : every few minutes the towels may be wrung out of cold or iced water and changed. This process does not necessitate any movement of the patient, and can be applied continu- ously. Sponging with cold or iced water may be done every hour, the various parts of the body being- uncovered, sponged, and covered in turn. Ice packing is sometimes resorted to in ex- treme cases, but as a rule is not so convenient nor so efficacious as the above methods. During these applications of cold to the body the head should be kept cool by an ice cap or cold-water bag. Scarlet Fever.—In those cases of scarlet fever where the rash fails to come out and the patient is threatened with death from hyperpyrexia, the treatment is exactly the same as for rheumatic hyperpyrexia. The bath and not the milder cooling methods is the only remedy. Typhus Fever. — Here the cooling pack is beneficial. Pneumonia.—In the pneumonia and broncho- pneumonia of children the cooling towel is most useful, and should be used whenever the tem- perature rises above 102°. In adults the application of cold has to be made more cautiously, but whenever the heart seems to be failing from high temperature the cooling pack or cooling- towels should be used; and in extreme cases with very high temperature the cold bath, but the latter should be used with the greatest care. Large enemata of cold water reduce temperature and are sometimes useful. Uroemia.— The hot blanket pack, before described, is sometimes useful here, but not nearly so much so as the hot-air or vapour bath given in bed. The bedclothes being supported by cages, a large spirit lamp is placed on the floor at the foot of the bedstead, and the hot air or vapour is conducted into the bed by means of a tube. The bath may be kept going for from fifteen minutes to two hours, and may be repeated as often as required. It has frequently succeeded when all other methods have failed, especially in nephritis following scarlet fever, and in some cases of puerperal convulsions. Acute gout is often at once relieved by local hot-air or vapour baths. Subacute and Chronic Diseases.—Rheu- matism and gout are benefited by the use of the hot-air and vapour baths, general or local. In cases of gout the vapour generally seems more useful, and is an invaluable adjunct to treatment by natural mineral water baths. Lumbago, myalgia, sciatica, neuralgia, and neuritis are also efficiently treated by these methods, with the help of the hot underwater douche; also by the Aix douche. The more chronic forms of sciatica are relieved by the Scottish douche. Rheumatoid arthritis, if of the rheumatic or gouty type, is relieved by the local application of hot dry air, especially in conjunction with the constant current or sinusoidal or electric bath ; in the more purely neural forms the hot air is of limited service, and should be used with great care, the electric bath being much the most effective treatment. Neuritis is often benefited by the application of mustard packs over the painful nerves, especially over tender spinal points, and they are often given in connection with the sinusoidal electric baths which have done so much for neuritis. Affections of the skin, as dry eczema, psoriasis, lichen planus, etc., are well treated by hot dry air; the more inflammatory condition by the steam box bath or local application of vapour. Chronic Bright^s disease, renal insufficiency, suppressed gout, lithjemia, and other forms of auto-intoxication, can be safely and well treated by tlie vapour or hot-air baths. Neurasthenia.—Needle bath, Scottish douche,