461 INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF ing of many of the abnormal appearances to be observed in the nerve-cells of the human subject. It has been shown that the nerve-cell is exceed- ingly sensitive to the action of many different toxic substances, and that it undergoes definite structural alterations after injury to its axon. The pathological process set up by the former cause has been designated primary degeneration, and that resulting from the action of the latter secondary degeneration. In primary degenera- tion the changes vary considerably in accordance with the toxin employed and the intensity of its action. In general the condition manifests itself first by disintegration of the chromophile substance of the protoplasm {chroniatolysis), and afterwards by disintegration of the fibrils, de- generation of the nucleus, and death of the whole element. If the alteration does not proceed further than simple chroniatolysis, it may be recovered from. In secondary de- generation the alteration begins with dis- integration of the chromophile substance in the neighbourhood of the cone of origin of the axon, and gradually extends to the rest of the cell-body. At an advanced stage the nucleus is often displaced to the periphery, and the primitive fibrils of the protoplasm destroyed. The cell may undergo repair, or it may atrophy and disappear. Primary and secondary degeneration are the only diseases of the fully developed nerve-cell that are at present definitely known. Further research will doubtless enable us to recognise various pathologically distinct varieties of primary degeneration. The many types of morbid change that may be observed to affect the nerve-cells of the human cerebral cortex are to be regarded as indicative of the occur- rence of one or other of these two forms of degeneration, and must not be looked upon as in themselves distinct diseases of the cell. Among these types of morbid change the most common are chromatolysis, pigmentary or yellow globular degeneration, vacuolation, varicose atrophy of the protoplasmic processes, varicose hypertrophy of the axis-cylinder pro- cess, and displacement of the nucleus. The following are some of the more important facts that seem now to have been definitely established regarding the pathological altera- tions in the cortical nerve-cells in different forms of mental disease. In cases of acute mania and acute melancholia dying in the course of the disease, from 25 to 50 per cent of the cells show distinctly marked degenera- tion of the primary type. This percentage is very much higher than that which is generally to be found in persons succumbing, for example, simply to pneumonia, or exhaustion from any wasting disease, such as phthisis. Moreover, the intensity of the pathological changes is far greater in cases of acute insanity, and there is satisfactory evidence that many of the cells have completely disintegrated and disappeared. In senile insanity and in general paralysis there is constantly a slow degeneration of the cortical nerve-cells, for the most part of a primary type. The number of cells involved is very much larger than that affected in normal senility, and the severity of the alterations is far greater. In general paralysis considerable areas of the cortex are often practically depleted of nerve-cells. In cases of choreic insanity there are always extensive, more or less acute, de- generative changes in the cortical nerve-cells, also of a far more severe character than those that occur from simple terminal auto-intoxica- tions. In chronic alcoholic insanity there is very considerable loss of cortical nerve-cells, while a large proportion of those that remain show degenerative changes either of a primary or of a secondary type. Secondary dementia depends essentially upon the fact that a large proportion of the cortical nerve-cells have suffered complete degeneration. In some cases it can be shown that about 50 per cent of them have entirely disappeared. Congenital Abnormalities of the Brain.—Some of the slighter of these may not infrequently be observed in persons who, during life, did not exhibit any noteworthy mental aberration or peculiarity ; nevertheless such slight structural abnormalities (such as atypical arrangement of the convolutions and sulci, absence or imperfect development of various parts of the brain, hetero- topia of the grey substance) are far more common in the insane than in the mentally sound. They are especially common in cases of idiocy, imbe- cility, and epileptic insanity. Some of the more gross congenital defects, such as micro- cephaly, are quite incompatible with normal intellectual development, while others, such as porencephaly and absence of the corpus callosum, have only very rarely been discovered in sane persons. Focal Lesions.—Localised gross lesions of the brain are present in a remarkably high per- centage of cases of insanity examined after death. The form and degree of mental de- rangement that they occasion probably depend mainly upon their localisation and the special reactive qualities of the individual brain. In a large majority of instances they are not, however, the only important structural altera- tions in the organ, being associated with well- marked pathological changes in various other situations. By far the most common and most important focal lesions are those of vascular origin. They are represented especially by atrophic and hsemorrhagic softenings. The former especially tend to be multiple. Both are extremely common in the senile insane, but are also not infrequently to be observed in lunatics dying in middle life. Various forms of cerebral tumour are common