169 HEMIPLEGIA patient some months after the onset of the con- dition. Whatever may liave been the nature of the initial lesion the subsequent condition is the same. Motor Symptoms.— There is, in the ordinary case, weakness of the whole of one side of the body—the face, arm, and leg being most ob- viously affected, although the trunk muscles also suffer. It may just be mentioned here that although the more distinct weakness is of one side, the other side is also affected, but in a much slighter and less noticeable way. The lower part of the face suffers most, and there is an obliteration of the naso-labial fold and dis- tinct drooping of the upper lip on an attempt at showing the teeth. The tongue is protruded towards the paralysed side. The arm is much less helpless than at the onset of the paralysis, but there is more movement at the shoulder and elbow than at the wrist or in the hand, although this is sometimes obscured by the presence of adhesions at the shoulder, consider- ably limiting movement there. The whole arm is stiff, or, to use the ordinary term, rigid, but this rigidity can at first be overcome, although later, through contractions taking place, struc- tural alterations at the joints and in the muscles make even passive movements restricted and difficult. There is in the ordinary case much more affection of the finger movements than of any others. The leg is similarly affected, although in less degree. The rigidity, however, is distinct. In some cases of hemiplegia, as has already been said, the leg is more affected than the arm, and in such a case there is inability to walk for a long time even after a fair degree of power is present in the arm and even in the hand; yet in such a case, no doubt because of the bilateral representation of leg movement in the brain, recovery in the leg usually proceeds to such a stage as to permit walking. The reflexes may be alluded to. In the leg there is usually ankle clonus and the knee-jerk is exaggerated, and there may actually be a knee clonus. This exaggeration, although more marked on the paralysed side, is present also on the other, and even ankle clonus occasionally occurs on the so-called healthy side. In the arm there is exaggeration of the jerks elicited on tapping the wrist and elbow, and attention has recently been called by Babinsky and others to the fact that stroking the sole of the foot, in this and other conditions in which the lateral columns in the cord are degenerated, elicits a movement of extension of the big toe, the normal one being one of flexion. Sometimes by depress- ing the lower jaw and tapping the chin, a well- marked jaw-jerk may be obtained. Occasional irregular movements are present on the affected side in hemiplegia. The most common of these is athetosis, in which the hand on the affected side undergoes a cycle of slow involuntary movements. The movement may also affect the arm and shoulder, so that the arm is elevated above the head in a grotesque and striking manner. Similar movement may be present in the foot and at the ankle, rarely at the other parts of the leg, and not in- frequently about the face and neck, the platysma being apparently the muscle most implicated. Marked tremor may also be present on the paralysed side, resembling that of disseminated sclerosis in being evoked only on movement, but both these forms of movement are much more common in the cases of hemiplegia occur- ring in early life, so-called infantile hemiplenia, to which reference will presently be made. Besides these evidences of motor paralysis sensory impairment may also be present. This, as we have already said, is more likely to be met with in cases in which the leg is more affected, and consists in a blunting to all forms of sensory stimulation. The special senses may also be involved. Hemianopsia, i.e. abolition of function of the half of each retina on the side of the lesion, resulting in blindness of the half of each visual field on the paralysed side, is the form in which vision is affected. Hearing, taste, and smell may be impaired on the paralysed side. This is probably the most suitable place in which to refer to the speech and articulatory defects in hemiplegia, because they are partly sensory and partly motor. In nearly every case even of left hemiplegia there is at first some difficulty with articvilation resulting in a slur- ring or blurring of what are usually clearly articulated definite sounds. This may pass off in a few days, or weeks, but in a certain pro- portion of the cases persists throughout. In the majority of cases of y-ight hemij^legia, how- ever, speech proper is affected. The motor processes of speech may be interfered with, so that the patient is unable to fit words to things or to ideas, resulting in the condition known as motor aphasia. The patient knows what he wants to say, but cannot say it, yet is able to recognise it when it is said, and to understand anything spoken to him; or he may be unable to fit written characters to heard words, a con- dition known as agraphia. Another defect, however, may be present, so - called sensory aphasia, in which the patient is unable to understand what is said to him, — so - called auditory aphasia; or is unable to interpret seen objects, e.g. unable to read—so-called visual aphasia or word-blindness. All these defects only occur in cases of right hemiplegia, or in cases of left hemiplegia in a left-handed person. The writer has seen a case, however, of left hemiplegia with aphasia in a right-handed woman. This patient's father, curiously enough, was left-handed in a marked degree. And it should be remembered that all cases of right hemiplegia do not suffer from aphasia, and that those most likely to escape are for obvious