345 IMMUNITY may often foretell from the degree of phagocytosis ■whether or no the animal experimented on will gain the victory over the micro-organisms. 2. Although the observations of Metschnikoff are undoubtedly correct, yet the " cellular theory," i.e. the phagocytic theory, cannot be wholly and unreservedly accepted, because the fluids of the animal body contain not only phagocytes, but also bactericidal substances in a soluble form, which are termed alexins, and which are likewise concerned with the destruction of bacteria. Von Fodor was the first to show that freshly-drawn rabbit's blood can destroy anthrax bacteria—a fact confirmed by Nuttall and Fliigge—and he also proved that not only defibrinated blood, but also pericardial fluid and aqueous humour of dogs and rabbits, is bactericidal, and that the blood loses its activity on being heated to 55° C. Buchner, in conjunction with Fr. Voit, Sitt- mann, and Orthenberger, found that completely cell-free blood plasma or sei'um has a bactericidal action which is lost at 55° C, but is not altered by freezing and subsequent thawing. Fresh blood, however, when frozen and afterwards thawed loses its bactericidal power, not because the active substances are destroyed, but because the red blood corpviscles are dissolved, whereby the blood becomes a medium so suitable for bacteria that its bactericidal action is com- pensated for, just as weak antiseptics are if bacteria be well nourished. The destruction of bacteria in serum, however, cannot be referred to lack of nutriment, since serum acts as a nutrient medium after being heated to 55° C. Behring, working with rats which are moder- ately resistant to anthrax, had demonstrated the destructive action of their blood on anthrax bacilli, and believed that it was to be ascribed to an organic base. Buchner was the first to prove that the protective substances contained in the serum (alexins) are of proteid natui-e and very unstable. The proteid nature of these substances is indicated by the proportion of salts contained in the serum. Withdrawal of the mineral salts from the serum by dialysis suspends its bacteri- cidal activity, which is restored, however, by readdition of the salts. But the bactericidal power is not due to the salts alone, for in that case it would be maintained after serum had been heated to 55° C. The action of the salts is consequently an indirect one; it is only when they have entered into loose combination with the proteid alexins that the functional power of the latter can be displayed, just as the functions of the cells and organs of the general body are dependent on their containing a normal amount of mineral salts. Moreover, the alexins can be precipitated along with the other proteid substances of the serum, can be dried and again dissolved without losing their activity. Yet it has hitherto been impossible to truly isolate the alexins because of their instability. They retain their activity for a considerable time in frozen serum, but lose it sooner or later at higher temperature or under the influence of light and oxygen. The alexins of different animal species have different degrees of activity, those of the human serum are vei-y actively bactericidal. The degree of bactericidal activity, however, is largely dependent on the nature of the bacterium employed, and on the relative proportion of serum ibo the number of bacteria contained therein. A given quantity of serum can only destroy a certain number of bacteria, for the alexins themselves are destroyed or used up by contact with bacteria. This is the explanation of the increased danger to which the body is exposed when the infective agents are numerous. It is almost immaterial whether we inoculate a dead sterile nutrient medium with a few or with milliards of germs of one kind; in both instances they multiply until the nutrient medium is all consumed. In the living body, however, the results will be very different, for resistance is more likely to be maintained and recovery to occur if only a few germs be employed. The action of alexins on bacteria is probably a proteolytic one on the bacterial cell plasma. We may therefore assume that the alexins are deleterious to other cells foreign to the body, e.g. they dissolve the hajmoglobin out of the red blood corpuscles of a different animal species (hfemolytic action, vide infra). An explanation of natural resistance to bacteria by such action of alexins as just described would constitute a " humoral theory " in contradistinction to the cellular or phagocytic one. But the "humoral theory," too, cannot be accepted in toto. The real explanation of the problem lies midway between these two antagon- istic theories, for, according to all recent investigation, the alexins are mainly derived from the leucocytes. 3. The leucocytes, as is claimed in the cellular theory, must be regarded as the chief cause of natural resistance to bacteria, but not merely because they are phagocytes devouring and digesting bacteria, but also because they pro- duce alexins. The great bactericidal power of exudations containing leucocytes is due to alexins. It was first proved that the bacteri- cidal action of blood and artificial exudations was proportionate to their richness in leucocytes (Denys, van de Velde, Havet, and Kaisin). But the notion still prevailed that the leucocytes acted as phagocytes, until Hankin and Kanthack indicated that the alexins were a direct product of the eosinophile leucocytes. The experimental proof thereof was afterwards afforded by Buchner and Hahn as follows :— Exudations which are rich in leucocytes, yet free of bacteria, are obtained by the injection of sterilised emulsion of wheat-gluten into the pleui'al cavities of rabbits and dogs, and such