518 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF they have gained entrance to the body, we can at least arrest at the door and prevent from entering. We cannot undo the mischief that alcohol has done to the brain, but we can at least see to it that no more alcohol is imbibed, and so of lead, morphia, chloral, and other in- gested poisons. In puerperal insanity, also, we can clear out the uterus, and counteract the septicity of its contents, which, in some cases at least, appears to be contributory to the insanity. Dr. Haig has- written much and strenuously upon the evil effect of an animal diet in bringing about uric-acidsemia and melancholia, and upon the advantages in this psychosis of regulating the diet and administering salicylates. There is no doubt that in melancholia the blood- pressure is high, but beyond this there is nothing in the majority of cases of melancholia to corroborate Dr. Haig's doctrine. It is very rarely that a case of melancholia is improved by the administration of salicylates, but here and there we do meet with a case, usually that of a portly, middle-aged man who has lived pretty freely, whose depression does appear to be favourably influenced by the administration of these compounds. The cases in which they are likely to be useful are those in which the urine, scanty and of high specific gravity during the day, is copious and watery in the night, and in which the patient has to get out of bed once or twice to pass water—cases, in short, of incipient renal disease. The combina- tion of depression of spirits with these symptoms is not very common, in spite of all that Dr. Haig maintains, but when they are so combined the administration of salicylates has a very marked effect in improving both the one and the other. There are certain phases of conduct exhibited l)y the insane which demand special notice with reference to their treatment. Suicidal Tendency.—This is extremely com- mon in acute insanity. There is a prevalent opinion among those whose experience of in- sanity is limited that mania and melancholia are entirely distinct forms of the malady, and that the tendency or impulsion to suicide occurs in the latter form only. This view is entirely erroneous. It is true that the deliberate inten- tion to commit suicide is very often associated with melancholia, but it is also true that conduct of the most determined and persistent suicidal character is often exhibited in states of acute mania in which no other sign of depres- sion is apparent, and in which there does not seem to be enough mind for the formation of deliberate intention. It is in such cases that refusal of food is most obstinate, and that impulsive rushes to the windows, attempts at strangulation, and so forth, are most common. For the prevention of suicide in these, as in other cases, there is but one method which has any chance of success, and that is the exercise of incessant vigilance. Under no circumstances, neither by night nor day, must the patient be left unwatched for a single moment. He must be accompanied in his goings out and his comings in. He must be taken to the closet and watched while there, and an attendant must sit by his bedside all night. And the attendant must be experienced in the ways of such patients, and fully impressed with the necessity of making the vigilance in- cessant. A patient whose head is under the bed-clothes is practically as well screened from observation as if he were in a room alone, and in such circumstances can stuff his mouth with a corner of the sheet, and so suffocate him- self effectually, while his attendant sits by unsuspecting. Masturbation is a very common habit in the insane of both sexes, and one that is very difficult to counteract. Those who are still sufficiently governed by the restraint of modesty to restrain from it while they are under obser- vation should be kept under observation to the same extent as a siiicidal patient, but many of those who are addicted to this habit own no such restraint. In them continuous and labor- ious employment is the most effectual remedy. They should be worked in the garden, the field, or the shop until they are dog-tired, kept up late, made to rise early, and lightly clothed at night. In those cases in which the habit is most fixed, the patients are as a rule too de- mented to be capable of any but the simplest employments, but still they can be harnessed with others to a cart or a roller, and thus kept from the indulgence. When they are not physically fit even for this mode of exercise their dress can be so arranged that their genitals are inaccessible to them, but this expedient is far less successful. Faulty habits as they are called, that is to say, the emptying of the bladder and rectum into the clothes, are very frequent among the insane, and are due, sometimes to the mere negligence of dementia, sometimes to the desire to cause trouble and annoyance, and sometimes to a strange but undoubted association between the performance of these acts and the satis- faction of sexual desire. In most cases the fault can be overcome by observance of the routine of visiting the closet at moderately frequent intervals, that is to say, after every meal, and once or twice during the night. Destrnctiveness is sometimes an impulsive outbreak of Berserker rage, of which no ex- planation can be given, and against which scarcely any precautions are adequate; but more often it is the resource of vacuity. A man has a certain amount of energy to expend, and this energy will find egress in some mode of activity. If no useful mode of activity presents itself or is available, it will find egress in twisting the buttons off his coat, in tearing