431 INFLUENZA range in influenza (which is reproduced), illus- trative of a paper, " Zur Kenntnis des Fieber- ganges bei Influenza," by Dr. Otto Frentzel, c 40^ 1st day 2nd day 3rd day 4th day 38° 37° 860 1 £ - i i i f \ — -\ ) \ — I Type I. assistant physician to the Municipal General Hospital at Friedrichshain, which appeared in the Centralblatt fiir klinische Medicin for January nth, 1890. Influenza shows a marked tendency to relapse, and to this feature the indirect fatality of the malady is largely due. In the epidemic of 1847 the death-rate was estimated at only 2 per cent of the cases observed in London. It was probably not higher in the several epidemics which have occurred since 1889 up to the present date (1900). In the winter of 1889 at least a fortnight elapsed between the occurrence of the earliest cases and the fatalities from influenzal bronchitis and pneumonia. So far from establishing immunity, an attack lat day 9nd day Atypical Forms Apart from the very many cases which range themselves more or less accurately vmder the four types just described, there remain not a few cases of influenza which do not admit of being properly classified. They are atypical— that is to say, they q conform to no type. With equal pro- priety such cases might perliaps be called polytypical, or many-typed. In the first place, as Ziilzer pointed out in his classical monograph on " In- fluenza " in von Ziemssen's Cyclo- pcedia of the Prac- tice of Medicine (187 5), a great number of rudi- mentary forms are observed in every epidemic. " A considerable part of the population in fact, under the influence of the 'genius epidemicus,' exhibits a state of indisposition which does not amount to a full febrile affection, but which is shown to be a general invasion of the system by slight coryza, by confusion of the head, by one's quickly becoming fatigued, by disinclination for business, and often by sore throat, tickling- cough, etc." Ziilzer further shows that it is seldom possible to bring all the special cases of influenza within the compass of the ordinary classification because the foims under wliich the 86° Type III. C tat day 3nd day 3rd day 4th day 6tb day 6th day r i _ V / } — Tf 36° of influenza seems to predispose an individual to a second or even a third visitation of the disease. In this respect influenza resembles erysipelas, diphtheria, and perhaps pneumonia, or "pneumonic fever." disease manifests itself are made up of various combinations. Lastly, the same author observes that the "features of the disease acquire still greater diversity from the various comjMcations." Many