INTESTINES, SUKGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 546 clear enough, but in the great majority of cases of intestinal obstruction it is impossible to say that the acute will remain so till the end, or that the chronic will escape an acute termination, and in these cases the commencement may be acute, and after a day or two of serious illness the symptoms become more chronic, or partially relieved by the passage of flatus. A distended abdomen with paroxysmal pain and fojtid diarrhoea is seldom met with except in chronic obstruction of the colon, and diarrhcea is indeed so common in cancer of the colon that it is imperative to examine the rectum in every case of obstinate diarrhoea in the adult. Prognosis The difficulties of correct diagnosis and, con- sequent thereon, of exact prognosis have increased the uncertainties of treatment. Before abdo- minal surgery reached its present position, if there were a fair chance for the case to recover without operation, there was every excuse to delay operative treatment, which had so high a mortality in intestinal obstruction cases. This excuse no longer exists, and it is fair to say now that the mortality after operation is more due to delay, or to diseased conditions which could not have been relieved at an earlier stage, than to the operation itself. Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—In acute cases the mortality is very high. Strangulation by bands or rings or internal herniae will have as high a mortality as cases of strangulated hernia would if treated without operation. It is possible for either to get well when apparently in the most desperate condition, but such cases are so rare that they cannot be allowed to count in making the prognosis. Post-mortem examination made by me of a stout and apparently healthy woman, who died suddenly twelve hours after the onset of ob- struction symptoms, showed that death was due to a small knuckle of the ileum being strangu- lated through a hole in the mesentery. On another occasion in a vigorous young blacksmith, who lived for three weeks after the onset of acute obstruction, death was found to be caused by a band crossing and constricting the end of his ileum. The great majority of cases die during the first week, and seldom live for more than three days after fsecal vomiting has commenced. Death in these cases is frequently brought about by changes in the intestine above the obstruction. Interference with the circulation, due to dis- tension, first destroys the lining epithelium of the mucous membrane, and allows of the absorption of septic matter into the circulation. Sudden death may take place from heart failure during this stage, or if the patient live longer, death arises from a combination of septicaemia and exhaustion due to pain, loss of sleep and starvation. Later, septic absorption with peri- tonitis caused by the escape of bacilli through the damaged intestinal wall, or perforation of distension ulcers, may cause death. The latter is rare. A more usual termination is by peri- tonitis due to the perforation of ulcers in the neighbourhood of the seat of obstruction. Strangulation by Bands or Internal Hernia.— The most acute cases so closely resemble stran- gulated hernia that the prognosis in both may be said to be the same without operation. Intussusception. — In acute cases recovery without surgical intervention is more common than in other varieties of intestinal obstruction. In children under one year of age the prognosis is worst. They often die in a few hours with all the symptoms of profound shock ; in older children and adults death iisually occurs in the second and third weeks of the illness. An adult female under my care, with all the symptoms of intussusception, with faecal vomiting of three days' duration, and a tumour in the position of the ascending colon, suddenly recovered with the disappearance of the tumour, and there is in recorded cases considerable justification for the belief that spontaneous reduction may occur. This, however, must be regarded as an unusual result. The common cause of spontaneous cure is gangrene of the intussuscepted bowel. Gan- grene may affect the whole or only part of the invaginated bowel. In a child I saw after it had been ill for a week with symptoms of intussusception, there were several inches of gangrenous intestine with the ileo-caecal valve at its extremity hanging out of the anus. The obstruction, as would be expected, is most complete and sudden in acute cases, as in them the vessels of the involved mesentery are at once constricted, and large portions of the gangrenous but intact intestine may be passed per anum. In more chronic cases destruction may be less rapid and more partial. Instead of large areas of gangrene, smaller sloughs of the invaginated intestine may be voided, which may be difficult to recognise as portions of the intestine when passed per anum. In adults the possibility of polypi as a cause of intussusception has to be remembered, and in elderly persons the still more frequent associa- tion with cancer must be borne in mind in making the prognosis. In the very young, spontaneous elimination by gangrene is almost inevitably fatal. In youth the prognosis is best; after twenty it becomes steadily worse. Collected statistics show that out of one hundred cases of intussusception fifteen will re- cover after spontaneous elimination by gangrene of the intussuscepted bowel. It seems probable, however, that these statistics give too favour- able a record for spontaneous cure by gangrene, as recoveries are more likely to be reported in consequence of their interest and rarity than the more usual fatal results.