HEREDITY 178 needs to be nurtured by appropriate conditions if it is to develop. And yet the distinction is not a verbalism. For although we do not suppose that the environment is creative, and although we must admit that the potentiality of the acquired character must be in the nature of the organism, just as the possibility of an explosion in the barrel of gunpowder, yet, as a matter of fact, it is possible to distinguish between the actual modification which we see and measure and the possibility of it which we presuppose. Similarly, while it is very true that the potentialities so marvellously embodied in the fertilised ovum require appropriate en- vironing conditions if they are to be realised, for, as His observed long ago, "it is a piece of unscientific mysticism to suppose that heredity will build up an organism without mechanical means," yet this does not affect the validity of our definition of an acquired modification as dis- tinguished from a congenital specific character. The main argument against a belief in the transmissibility of acquired characters is simply that the evidence for the affirmative is extremely unsatisfactory. But this position is corroborated if we accept the view that the germ-plasm or the material basis of inheritance is in a marked degree apart from the general life of the body, and sometimes segregated at a very early stage in development. For this view raises a pre- sumption against the likelihood of the germ- plasm being readily affected in a specific and representative manner by changes in the nature of the body cells. It must be allowed, however, that our inability to conceive of the mechanism by which an acquired character of the brain may affect the reproductive cells in a specific and representative manner does not prove that the supposed influence is an impossibility. The argument in favour of the view that acquired characters may be transmitted is found in the large number of facts which may be readily interpreted on this hypothesis, and on a few facts which seem directly to suggest it. And the affirmative position is strengthened by a consideration of the luiity of the organism. In many plants the distinction between somatic cells and germ-cells can iiardly be drawn, and even if we keep to animals the bonds between the body and its germ-cells are often very close. The blood and lymph or other body fluids form a common medium for the various parts of the organism. Alteration of diet in the early youth of some animals, such as tadpoles, may "deter- mine the predominance of one sex or the other through influences which must pass from soma to germ-cells. Various poisons may affect the bodily system and the reproductive organs at the same time, and there are real though dimly understood correlations between the gonads and the i-est of the system. It is therefore erroneous to think of the germ-plasm as if it led a charmed life uninfluenced by any of the accidents and incidents in the daily life of the body which bears it. No one believes this, Weismann least of all, for he finds one of the chief sources of congenital or blastogenic variation in the nutritive stimuli exerted on the germ-plasm by the varying state of the body. But it is one thing to admit that the germ-plasm has no charmed life nor insulation from bodily influ- ences, and quite another thing to believe that a change in the body, induced by use or disuse or by change in surroundings, can influence the germ- plasm in such a definite way that the offspring will exhibit the same modification which the parent acquired, or even a tendency towards it. Of the direct evidence suggestive of the transmissibility of acquired characters a few representative samples may be given. (1) The Panjabis are said to show peculiarities of musculature and skeleton, which are related to the frequency with which these people assume the squatting posture. But it may be that these modifications are acquired during each individual lifetime. The evidence is inconclu- sive, and we may set against it the case of the compressed foot of Chinese ladies, for there seems to be no evidence that the long-continued deformation has resulted in any hereditary change in the Chinese baby's foot. (2) The alleged dwindling of the little toe is instanced as a case of the inheritance of a modification induced by tight boots. But the evidence is flimsy; a dwindling has also been alleged in savages who do not wear boots ; it is possible that there is in man, as there was in the horse- stock, a congenital variation in favour of a reduction of digits ; and there are other possible interpretations. (3) In 1796 the utmost speed of the English trotter was a mile in 2 minutes 57 seconds; decade after decade the speed and the percentage of swift trotters increased; finally, there has been evolved a breed who can trot a mile in 2 minutes 10 seconds. This has been claimed as evidence of the cumulative transmission of the results of exercise or nur- ture. But this interpretation overlooks the results of selective breeding which may have increased the congenital swiftness, and the pro- cess of elimination which persistently weeded out the less swift from the stud. (4) In 1875 Schmankewitsch was able to transform one type of brine-shrimp, Artemia salina, in the course of generations into another type, Artemia milhausenii, by lessening the salinity of the water; and conversely, by increasing it. The results are open to criticism on several grounds, but it is enough to recognise that Schmanke- witsch experimented with a 2^ro<jressively chang- ing environment on a series of generations, and that the result is interpretable as due to modifi- cations liammered on each successive generation without there being any inheritance of these modifications. It is also possible that the reproductive cells before or after liberation