83 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM immediately behind the obstruction during systole, hypertrophy will be the first and earliest secondary change, and probably the most persistent. In valvular incompetence, especially when rapidly established, dilatation is usually the first and most noticeable effect. Hypertrophy, generally speaking, is only a later and often less marked effort at readjustment. Impediment to the free action of the heart may lead to considerable hypertrophy, as is frequently seen in " adherent pericardiiim": pi'obably here dilatation precedes hypertrophy. Frequently also there are associated endocardial lesions. In conditions of chronic renal disease, particularly in the form of " granular " kidney, very extensive hypertrophy occurs. The in- crease in muscular development affects chiefly the ventricles, and mainly that of the left. It may be interesting hei-e to observe that in old age the heart is sometimes found increased in size. Possibly this may be best explained by a reference to the condition of the vessels. Aneurysm of the aorta is not necessarily associated with any marked degree of hyper- trophy. When it leads to any appreciable degree of obstruction which, however, is quite exceptional, or when by involvement of the first part of the arch incompetence of the aortic valve is occasioned, enormous increase in the extent of the walls of the left ventricle may be found. In pulmonary obstruction, such as occurs in cases of chronic bronchitis, emphysema, fibroid conditions of the lungs, marked hypertrophy of the right ventricle occurs, which, however, is not limited to it, but, as we should expect from a recognition of the solidarity of the heart, is associated with changes in the muscular walls of the left-sided cavities, although to a less extent. " Idiopathic" hypertrophy is practically an unknown and rightly discarded condition. Hypertrophy of the heart has been divided into (i.) simple, (ii.) eccentric, and (iii.) concen- tric. It is doubtful if the last form ever occurs. In clinical and pathological practice the second form, or hypertrophy with dilatation, is usually met with. The so to speak mere mechanical necessities play a determining part. Thus in aortic stenosis alinost pure hypertrophy often occurs. In aortic incompetence, since the left ventricle fills from two sources at the same time, a double influence must be considered—one destructive, the other constructive. Hyper- trophy, however, can only be maintained when there is adequate nutrition and the expenditure kept well within the cardiac income. This overstepped dilatation becomes the source of cardiac downfall. It must also be remembered that when hyper- trophy is associated with marked dilatation, the larger the cavity the greater the contractile power required to empty it. True hypertrophy consists in an actual hyper- plasia of the individual muscle cells. In many cases, and especially in young subjects, a numerical increase also occurs. All parts of the heart's muscle share in the hypertrophy, though seldom equally so. The ventricles show the most conspiciious increase in size. The papillary muscles are often greatly hypertrophied. All degrees of hypertrophy are met with. Occasionally the heart doubles both in size and weight. (10) Degenerations. — Impaired nutrition of the cardiac tissues leads to degenerative pro- cesses. The normal protoplasm sufters regres- sive change, and is converted into less highly developed forms. Degeneration of the cardiac structures is always to be looked upon as an involution and strictly pathological. Hard and sharp lines, however, cannot always be drawn between the different varieties, which, in not a few cases, tend to pass from one to the other. Still, generally speaking, and for purposes of description, certain more or less distinct forms may be recognised. Farenchymatous Degeneration or Cloudy Swell- ing.—This forms the simplest of regressive changes. It is characterised by a swelling up of the cells and fibres, the protoplasm becoming- cloudy, and forming fine free granules with indistinctness or disappearance of the nuclei. The mici'O-chemical reactions of the granular material show it to be albuminoid. Should the process be arrested at an early stage the affected cells apparently recover. This possibly explains the perfect restoration which occurs in not a few cases of slight degrees of dilatation of the heart. This form of degeneration is met with par- ticularly in the cardiac muscle cells, and occurs as a result of toxic conditions. It is common in most of the infectious diseases. In typhoid fever, diphtheria, and septic processes the morbid change is usually well marked. It is also met with in acute Bright's disease. Fatty Degeneration.—This is one of the most frequent pathological conditions affecting the myocardium. It is essentially a different process from fatty infiltration, although the two often occur in combination. It is charac- terised by a conversion of the cellular contents into fat elements. The change occurs at the expense of the cell protoplasm. It may take place throughout the myocardium, but is more frequently patchy in distribution. The cells have an indistinct granular appearance due to the accumulation of minute fatty globules. In advanced cases the nucleus also disintegrates. Osmic acid stains the fatty granules black, and the cell assumes a vacuolated appearance when the fat is dissolved out by ether. The macroscopic characters of the tissue differ somewhat according to the extent and duration of the change. The "tabby-cat striation " so