452 INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF single gland cell is likewise a response to a stimulus from without. This principle applies to the activities of the nervous organs as to those of other organs of the body, and it applies not only to the lower nervous functions, but also to the highest, that is to say, to the mental processes. All the functional activities of the brain, like those of the stomach, liver, salivary glands, etc., are essentially reflexes, or definite responses to stimuli. "In the psychical actions," says Tanzi,! " we are obliged always to pre- suppose the occTirrence of antecedent sensorial events which either take origin in the environ- ment, or are cusnesthetic, arising from within ■ however remote, indistinct, and forgotten this essential antecedent may be, it operates as a physiological stimulus and reduces even volun- tary initiative to the level of a reflex, differing from a common reaction only in its greater complexity. . . . Voluntary actions are to be interpreted as intelligent and obligatory re- sponses to the stimuli that continuously impinge upon consciousness in the form of desires; and thus the manifestations of will do not differ objectively from other reflex phenomena, save in their slowness. . . . Voluntary actions blend with instinctive actions, and assume, even when viewed from within, the aspect of reflexes with consciousness, and nothing more." If we look upon consciousness and conduct as respectively subjective and objective mani- festations of complex reactions to stimuli (and there are at least those who are prepared to con- tend that the data of modern science justify the taking of this view), then mental phenomena can be regarded from the same standpoint as other functional manifestations, and we can proceed to construct a pathology of insanity that is ia harmony with general pathology. Before this end can be fully achieved, how- ever, it is further necessary to establish a funda- mental principle of general pathology that is not yet recognised. It is necessary indeed to understand the biological significance of disease. In a paper published some years ago, the writer 2 attempted to grapple with this question, and further consideration of the matter has only served to strengthen his conviction that the solution therein offered is in accord with the facts. In the history of the race, genetic variation and natural selection have been continually operative in the direction of producing adaptation to environment. A plant or animal that is perfectly adapted to its en- vironment will pass through life without suffer- ing from disease. All its reactions to environ- mental stimuli will be purely physiological, and it will ultimately succumb to a simple process of involution. Such conditions are never realised in higher animal forms, owing to the great lumibor and complexity of the external ' Trattato delle malatiie mentali, 1904. - British Journal of Inebrietij, April 1904. agencies that act upon them. The adaptation is always to a greater or less extent imperfect. In all higher forms of life, any high degree of adaptation to environment implies a state of sustained defence against innumerable inimical forces, chief among which are certain bacterial foes. The great instruments of this protective action are the skin and mucous membranes, which form the individual's first line of defence. There are, however, numerous inimical forces which accident of circumstances may bring into contact with the individual, and against which this first line of defence may be incapable of aflbrding protection. When an inimical force—as for ex- ample the bacillus of influenza or the toxins produced by the diphtheria bacillus—penetrates the first line of defence, a second line of defence, constituted mainly by the protective forces that form the mechanism of natural and acquired im- munity, is brought into action. There occurs, in other words, a reaction to the inimical force, and such a reaction constitutes disease. We may therefore lay down a third principle, namely, that disease is a reaction to an inimical force that has penetrated the first line of defence of the organism. The exact characters of the reaction will vary within wide limits in accordance with the special reactive qualities of the individual. These, like all other reactive qualities, are de- pendent upon structure, which, as has been maintained, is always the joint product of heredity and environmental influence. It is, moreover, to be borne in mind that in a given individual the bodily structure, and therefore also the reactivity, are continually being modified by environmental influeiaces, and that whilstsuchmodificationoccurs within onlynarrow limits in health, it takes place to a very marked and important extent as a consequence of disease. Thus in health it is perceptibly in- fluenced by age, food, fatigue, sleep, etc., whilst it is often profoundly modified by organic changes such as those that occur in a tuber- cular lung, an atrophied thyroid gland, or a stomach that is the seat of a malignant tumour. It is further to be said in this connection that there is evidence that certain toxajmic conditions induce genetic variation, and although the influence of this may be in the direction of better adaptation to environment on the part of the descendants, it may also be operative in the other direction, and thus tend to increase the incidence of disease. Disease is thus a consequence of imperfect adaptation. It is a vital process, and is primarily defensive in purpose. It is to be dis- tinguished from traumatism, inanition, and in- volution, as well as fi'om conditions that are results of disease, such as the morbid tissue changes that may be observed after death. The functional activities of tlie brain may be a thousandfold more complex than those of any other organ, but, as far as they can be analysed.