HEMIPLEGIA 171 The involuntary movements already alluded to, especially athetosis, are met with characteristi- cally in this condition, and unilateral convul- sions are of frequent occurrence. These may remain absent even for years after the initial convulsions, but they are apt to recur. In some cases the convulsions are severe, in others the attacks are more those of petit mal, and they may be associated with post - epileptic automatism. The mental condition is nearly always impaired, and not infrequently a con- dition of imbecility is present which renders the child suitable only for an asylum or a similar institution. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy.—The con- dition is probably an inflammatory one of the cortex. Whether this is primarily in the cells or the result of vascular blocking, is not yet certain, but it seems not unlikely that an organised virus is the primarj' cause of whatever results in vessels or brain cells. When a child recovers from the initial grave condition and lives for years afterwards, the brain is then found to be in a cystic condition (porencephaly) with degeneration around it, a condition which, it is obvious, cannot inform us as to the primary cause of the brain lesion. Prognosis and Treatment.—At the commence- ment of the illness life is gravely threatened, and death can only be prevented by careful and judicious treatment. Tepid sponging may do much to reduce the temperature ; bromide by the rectum may control the convulsions, and should be given freely. A dose of calomel should be administered as soon as the condition is recognised, and care exercised that the child gets sufficient nourishment of a light, easily- digested quality. If the acute condition be recovered from the prognosis is grave as regards anything like com- plete recovery of power, and the possibility of great physical impairment, of the frequent occurrence of convulsions, and of much mental change, must be borne in mind in forecasting the future. Not much can be done by drugs after the hemiplegia is established. The con- vulsions, however, can usually be completely controlled by the judicious use of bromide com- bined with arsenic and nux vomica, and by carefully chosen exercises and passive move- ments physical development may be aided and deformities prevented. If the mental condition be impaired just after the onset there is not much chance that it will ever return to normal, and as soon as possible the child should be sent to an institution. Hemipldgrie Flasque.—The name given by Bouchard to cases of cerebral htemor- rhage, occurring most commonly in children, in which contracture and rigidity do not occur as late symptoms. See Paralysis {Infantile Hemi- plegia, Prognosis). " Hemisine."—Epinephrine or " Hemi- sine" (B. W. & Co.) is stated to be the active principle of the medulla of the adrenal gland ; it increases the rapidity and strength of the heart's action and causes constriction of the smaller arteries ; it blanches a mucous mem- brane when applied to it; it has been usefully employed in hfemorrhages except those of cerebral or pulmonary origin, has been com- bined with cocaine or eucaine in the production of local anaesthesia, and has been used to diminish the congestion of inflamed mucous membranes {e.g. in conjunctivitis, hay fever, etc.) ; the dose varies from grain to grain. See Adrenal Glands, Adrenalin. Heinitera.ta..—Anomalies of formation of a minor degree as distinguished from terata or monstrosities proper, and due to a less powerful teratogenic cause acting in a localised fashion. Hemlock. See Conium ; Toxicology {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Spotted Hemlock). Hemp, Indian. »S'ee Cannabis Indica ; Toxicology {Indian Hemp). Henbane. See Hyoscyamus ; Toxi- cology {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Hen- bane). Hendon Epidemic.—An epidemic of scarlet fever traced to the milk taken from cows suffering from a disease analogous to scarlet fever (characterised by loss of hair and by a vesicular eruption on the teats and udders). Henle'S Loop. See Physiology; Ex- cretion {Secretion of Urine, Structure of the Kidney). Henoch's Purpura. See Purpura {Varieties, Henoch's). Henpuye.—Dog-nose orgoundu, a disease frequently seen in the natives of the Gold Coast, consisting of a bilateral swelling of the sides of the nose, osseous in character, and causing much deformity. See Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases {Henpuye). Hepata SuCCenturiata. —Acces- sory hepatic lobes, an occasional anomaly of the liver. See Liver, Diseases of {Tongue-like Lobes). Hepatalg'ia.—Pain in the liver, due to abscess, gall - stones, cancer, inflammation, etc. See also Hysteria {Sensory Disorders). Hepatectomy.—Resection of the liver for the removal of growths {e.g. tuberculomata, gunnnata, etc.) or of Riedel's lobe.