IMMUNITY 368 out the serum the animal would die in 15 to 30 minutes; if the serum be potent the animal remains healthy. To test the curative value, an analogous method is employed. The lethal dose is injected into a vein of a rabbit, and five minutes later, when the venom is commencing to take effect, 4 cc. of serum are given intravenously. The animal should then recover in a short time. All the serum prepared by Calmette has to con- form to these two tests. It is important to know whether the venoms of the various varieties of snakes are essentially identical. Cunningham differentiates two forms, i.e. blood poisons, such as the venom of cobra capella, and ne7've 2^oisons. Calmette holds a contrary opinion, and refers to the fact that his serum has been used with excellent results for the bites of quite a number of different snakes. His serum is even claimed to be antitoxic to scorpion poison (a point corroborated by Met- schnikoff), although the latter is undoubtedly different from snake venom. Owing to this fact and to others previously mentioned, we may conclude that the antitoxic action is not so markedly specific in the case of these venoms as in the bacterial poisons. The former also differ from the latter in being more resistant to high temperatures, undergoing no change at 80" to 90". Calmette's assertion, that the serum of an animal which is rendered highly immune to a given snake venom also confers protection against the venoms of other varieties of snakes, is accordingly by no means improbable. Calmette's results have been in the main con- firmed by Fraser, who succeeded in obtaining a very potent anti-venom serum from the horse. According to Fraser, 200 to 300 cc. are required to save a man after being bitten. The serum has hitherto not been sufficiently used in India to permit of definite conclusions being drawn. Fraser states that the bile of venomous snakes may also be antitoxic. By precipitating with alcohol, he obtained an antitoxin of high curative value, which, even when given thirty minutes after a lethal dose of cobra poison, was able to save the animal, the proportionate weight of antitoxin employed to body-weight being O'Ol- 0-07 :1000. Calmette regards this phenomenon as not being due to the action of an antitoxin, but considers the bile substance as an unusually active stimulant, yet such an explanation does not diminish the practical significance of the fact. In every form of snake bite Calmette re- commends the employment not only of antitoxin, but also of chloride of lime solution, freshly prepared, to be used as a wash and also sub- cutaneously injected, after a firm ligature has been placed round the limb; 20 to 30 cc. of antitoxic serum are to be injected under the skin of the abdomen. Tuberculosis.—Behring has striven for many years to obtain an antitoxic serum for tuber- culosis. His aim was to first prepare a potent toxin from tubercle bacilli and then to immunise animals therewith. He succeeded in preparing a toxin the toxic activity of which is considerably greater than that of Koch's tuberculin. Tuber- culous cattle were cured by gradually increasing doses of Behring's toxin, and simultaneously rendered immune, so that they were finally able to withstand a dose of toxin lethal to healthy cattle. But the serum of such animals possessed only a slight protective power against Koch's tuberculin. In regard to the production of a tuberculosis antitoxic serum. Ransom hoped to get better results from birds, but none of practical value have been recorded. The employment of birds was mainly suggested by the fact that the mere use of the serum of horses and cattle, not only of those which have been inoculated, causes fever in phthisical patients, which is not the case with the serum of most birds. At an earlier date Maragliano stated that he had obtained an antitoxic serum by treating the larger animals, and horses more particularly, with tuberculin toxin. The simultaneous in- jection of tuberculin and this serum is said to cause neither local nor general reaction. This serum has been much used by Maragliano and other Italian physicians, but there is no definite proof of it having been employed with success. It is on the whole very doubtful whether a true antitoxic serum can be prepared in the case of tuberculosis, for in this disease the toxic action is not very pronounced, and the experience of most men is that recovery does not confer immunity. Meat Poisoning.—The B. botulinus is fre- quently an etiological factor, and its toxins are somewhat analogous to those of diphtheria and tetanus. After treating animals with filtrates of bouillon cultures of B. botulinus, they may furnish an antitoxic serum which has both a prophylactic and curative action (Kempner). Sivine Erysipelas. — Lorenz's method of pro- tective inoculation is the most successful and most frequently used in Germany. It is based on a judicious combination of active and passive immunisation. The possibility of immunising against swine erysipelas by either method had previously been pointed out by Emmerich. Yet passive antitoxic immunisation alone has the disadvantage of conferring a protection of too short duration, whilst simple active immunisation with living cultures implies the risk of inducing serious disease. What Lorenz aimed at was, firstly, to render the animals somewhat immune by injections of serum, and then a few days later to inject \-\ cc. of a living bouillon culture. Protection is thus conferred and lasts for about five months. If this be not considered sufficient, another injection of 0'5-2 cc. of living culture I must be made about a fortnight later, when the