377 IMPETIGO local and on some exposed part, especially the face, or in the neighbourhood of the original source of the contagious exudation. Thence it may be inoculated on any other part, particularly the fingers, and in rare cases the greater part of the surface may be involved, and pemphigus be simulated. The mucous membrane of eye and nostrils may be implicated. On the limbs the lesions tend to assume the more formidable aspect known as ecthyma, and on the hands the vesications may attain a large size owing to the thicker corneous layer. I have seen a bag of serum hanging from a finger. Perionychia is not uncommon. True staphylococcic inocula- tions, such as we are about to describe, may also occur as complications, e.g. suppurative folli- culites and even furuncles. The related glands may swell, but rarely suppurate. Tilbury Fox and others described an invasive febrile period, and a natural short and definite course, generally masked by the auto-inoculation of fresh lesions. The affection, however, is to be regarded as primarily a local one. I have twice seen a scarla- tiniform rash arise from secondary intoxication. It is probable that the so-called pemphigus neonatorum, sometimes epidemic in lying-in institutions, and a contagious '■'■pemphigus" observed by Manson and others in tropical regions, belong here. Such infections own obvious sources, or may be apparently spon- taneous, and they complicate a host of pruritic eruptions, and must be carefully distinguished from the original trouble. The ordinary localised phases of impetigo contagiosa are distinguished from eczema by the successive evolution of iso- lated lesions, without marked sensory disturb- ance, their tendency to peripheral extension and the formation of amber crusts of the discharge remain serous. Confluent areas present a real difficulty, but the presence of typical isolated lesions aroimd generally affords a clue. The IMPETIGO OP BocKHART is described by Sabouraud as of frequent occurrence and as an entirely distinct morbid entity due to the staphylococcus aureus, which, unlike the strepto- coccus, remains uncontaminated by other organ- isms. The typical lesion is a superficial pustule ab initio of greenish-yellow colour, centred by a hair, and surrounded, especially the younger ones, by a red areola. Such pustules may be of all sizes up to a pea, or even the end of the little finger, and they may be disseminated or crowded over the whole or part of a region, especially hairy regions, such as the scalp of the child, the moustache and beard of man. They may, how- ever, occur anywhere. The pustules terminate in crusts, and when the latter fall the orifice of the follicle appears red and inflamed, and a deeper-seated folliculitis or a furuncle may result. Inoculation about the nail may set up paronychia and onychia. Striking characters are the frequent returns of the eruption, its sudden evolution in some hours, and the pre- monitory pain in the related lymphatic glands. This eruption can arise without obvious cause, or be secondary to all sorts of traumatisms, such as medicinal plasters, or a wet dressing, or such as happen to washerwomen, masons, and printers from various chemical substances. It can also complicate pre-existing affections, such as acne, the impetigo of Tilbury Fox, eczema (E. impeti- ginodes), prurigo, lupus, etc. This impetigo is auto- and hetero-inoculable, but there does not seem to be the tendency to excentric spread seen in the streptococcic impetigo. Diagnosis. — The fundamental distinction between the staphylococcic pustule developed about a hair follicle, and the streptococcic phlyctena, without special relation to the hair follicle, which becomes complicated by staphy- lococci, and hence leads to mixed infections, has been sufficiently pointed out. Treatment.—The recommendation of a multi- tude of remedies usually signifies difficulty of cure, but not in the present instance. The principles are to cleanse away, and, as long as new formations arise, to continue to remove, all infective vesicles or pustules, discharges or crusts. The latter should be softened by boric acid fomentations, carbolised vaseline, carbolic oil, and so on, and then thoroughly bathed away as fast as they form. All vesicles and pustules should be ruptured, and the infective exudations disinfected and removed by antiseptic washes made with boric or carbolic acid, or the biniodide or bichloride of mercury, and such like. The raw, exuding areas may be dried up by parasiti- cide and astringent lotions, or by mulls or plasters, or better still by ointments or pastes of oxide of zinc, to which 2 or 3 per cent of some parasiticide or antiseptic has been added, such as ammoniated mercury, naphthol, sulphur, carbolic acid, or salicylic acid. The following formulae will serve as illustrations :—Sulphate of zinc 7 grammes, sulphate of copper 2 gi-ammes, distilled water saturated with camphor and filtered 600 grammes. Make a lotion. Use to arrest early lesions (Sabouraud). Plumbi acetatis I'D, acidi salicylici 2*0, zinci oxidi 20'0, adipis 50'0, petrolate 50"0. Infr. ung. (Dubreuilh). Acidi carbolic! gr. v., acidi salicylici gr. x., pasta zinci oxidi gj. M. ft. pasta (Duhring). Hydrarg. ammon. gr. xij., ung. zinci benz. ad 5]. M. ft. ung. (Tilbury Fox). Original sources of infec- tion, such as purulent inflammation from mucous membranes, pediculi capitis, suppurating vaccina- tion lesions, etc., must be sought for, and if they exist, cured. Lastly, not only must direct sources of inoculation be provided against, such as scratch- ing, but indirect, such as soiled towels, pillows, chair and sofa coverings, caps, football jerseys, razors, and so on. In the rarer, more or less universal cases, especially those sometimes seen in babies, the prognosis may be grave, unless the skin is thoroughly disinfected by prolonged antiseptic