HEART, CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF 152 arterial pulses all over the lower half of the body, contrasting with those of the distended vessels above. In this form of aortic stenosis or atresia the prognosis is much more favourable than it is in cases of constriction of the pulmonary artery. In some cases its presence seems to have been consistent with a long and apparently healthy life. When death occurs it is sometimes due to rupture of the aorta, sometimes to cerebral or pulmonary lesions. Congenital Abnormalities of the Semilunar Valves.—Abnormalities in the number and size of the semilunar vah'es are not very uncommon. One segment may be unusually small, or there may be two or four instead of three. Such malformations are generally of themselves of no consequence. It is found, however, that in later life the abnormal valves are specially liable to be affected by endocarditis. Patent Ductus Arteriosus.—The ductus arteri- osus rapidly closes after birth, and it should be entirely obliterated somewhere between the tenth and twentieth days of life. Failure of this normal process of involution and consequent persistent patency of the canal is a common complication of various congenital malformations of the heart and vessels, as already mentioned. Occasionally, also, cases are met with in which an open ductus is the only lesion to be found. The persistent duct may be greatly dilated, in which case it often acquires a funnel shape, the aortic being the wider end. The pulmonary artery may be greatly dilated, and the left ventricle is generally hypertrophied. When the lesion is uncomplicated there is no cyanosis until late in the progress of the case, and the patient often lives many years in the enjoyment of good health and without any abnormal subjective sensations. Caixliac hyper- trophy and other indications of some embarrass- ment of the circulation are, however, apt to intervene sooner or later. The murmurs vary, but that which is much most frequently heard is a loud systolic bruit in the second left inter- costal space a short distance from the sternum, which is accompanied by a palpable thrill and an accentuated second sound. Occasionally there is a diastolic murmur. The prognosis in uncomplicated cases of patent ductus arteriosus is more favourable than in most forms of congenital heart disease. About half of the published cases have survived puberty, and many have had long and active lives with- out any signs of disease. Acardin.—Acardia or absence of the heart is met with in rare instances of still-born twin monstrosities. Douhle Heart.—A double heart has been de- scribed in cases of extremely deformed foetuses. Such a condition is, however, never met with clinically. Misplacement of the Heart.—The heart may be displaced to the right side, or forwards, or even, in very rare cases, upwards into the neck or downwards into the abdominal cavity. Dextrocardia.—Misplacement of the heart to the right may occur without any corresponding malposition of the other organs. Usually, how- ever, it is only part of a general transposition of viscera {situs viscerum inversus). When it is present alone this condition causes no disturb- ance of the general health, but it is often associ- ated with other malformations. A lesser degree of misplacement to the right, so that the heart occupies a mesial position in the thorax, such as is found at a very early period of embryonic life, is occasionally met with, usually along with extensive develop- mental defects. Ectopia Cordis.—Ectopia cordis or prolapse forwards of the heart is a condition which dates from a very early period of intra-uterine life. It is associated with congenital fissure or entire absence of the sternum, and sometimes with defect of some of the ribs. It varies greatly in degree, and when severe may be associated with absence of the pericardium. Absence of the Pericardium.—Absence of the pericardium may occur along with abnormalities in the position and form of the heart or inde- pendently of other defects. It may be complete or partial. General Diagnosis of Congenital Heart Affec- tions.—It is not generally very diihcult in child- hood to determine in any given case whether a cardiac lesion is congenital or acquired. The most important points to be considered in making the diagnosis are :—The presence of cyanosis ; the loudness of the murmur taken along with the age of the child ; an atypical situation and propagation of the murmur, and tlie presence of hypertrophy of one or other side of the heart. In children who are weakly and anfemic it is always well to be particularly cautious about the diagnosis of congenital heart lesions from the presence of murmurs alone. In such cases comparatively lo\id basic murmurs may be found, which disappear entirely on recovery from the general condition of debility. The diagnosis of the exact condition is a question which must, in the large majority of cases, remain unanswered owing to its extreme difificulty. As the patient grows older the diagnosis of the lesion becomes increasingly difficult owing to the great frecjuency of second- ary endocarditis of the congenitally abnormal structures. Hochsinger's axioms as to diagnosis, which are founded on the observation of children mider five years old, but which mostly apply equally well to older patients, are (slightly abridged) as follows :— 1. Loud, harsh, musical murmurs, with a normal or but slightly inci-eased area of dulness, are met with in little children only in congenital cases. When acquired inflanunatory heart affec-