475 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS they are more easily investigated ; because they are of great importance in private life in that they are subject to endless petty disturbances, and are a great trouble to themselves and to their neighbours; and because they are pre- disposed to acute insanity, and ought to be recognised, understood, and guided. Abnormal minds we shall therefore consider before proceeding to commonly recognised in- sanities. And the physician will find it useful to remember a somewhat arbitrary division of them into (1) Arrests of development, and (2) Dis- proportionate developments—abnormal mental variations or, briefly, odd minds. In most cases there are both elements. But in investigating the mental functions serially, the physician should note concerning each whether it is in excess or deficient. Arrests of Development.—Arrest of mental development may occur in almost any degree and in regard to almost every cerebral function. We shall consider it as— I. Partial. II. General. III. Progressive. Partial arrests of development, as was said generally, occur in odd minds in association with excesses of development. One finds all forms of it, but we shall confine our attention to those which give trouble. Of arrested in- stinct, for example, that form is most important which is a lack of life-preserving activities. Obvious cases are those who simply do not care to live and do not fear to die. But a suicidal point of view is often safeguarded by a physical repulsion on the approach of bodily hurt. More important is a lack of instinct generally over- looked, in which the patient is indifferent to hunger and to fatigue. Many of our insane patients have been men and women who seemed never to know that sleep or rest was necessary, or that irregular fasting was dangerous. And many neurotic people show an analogous dis- regard of the safety of others. Normal children learn quickly what is unsafe; but many men and women never acquire a proper consideration for the safety of their neighbours, and do not react to a sense of danger to them. Then a great deal of vice and of misery is occasioned by persons who have not a well-developed sexual instinct. Many cases of unhappy marriage and many of sexual perversion are to be attributed to a lack of pleasure in normal intercourse. Like defects of organisation, though not with so obviotis a bearing upon insanity, are maternal indifference, paternal disinterest in the home, irreverence or an absence of the instinct to worship, and the failure to eagerly defend one's country without respect to the righteousness of its cause, all of which wants are common in disorderly minds. As we ascend the scale of mental functions. defects are of less importance from a biological point of view. We expect variations in the advancing points. But all the same some of them are of much practical importance. On the lower levels one of the most important de- fects is a lack of a capacity for enjoyment. Many good people take pride in their neglect of pleasures, but their failure to achieve a pleased interest in things sometime betokens a consti- tutional defect. No man who does not enjoy the really good things of life can be described as sane in the full sense of the word. Another primitive defect to which students of insanity should pay much importance is ineptness for muscular activities. Some of the most skilful in technique are neurotic persons; but very commonly those who are of defective brain cannot use their muscles aptly. On a higher plane are to be noted such wants as we all are familiar with in the sphere of intelligence. Defects of memory are amongst the commonest; so also an arrested development of the understanding. Stupidity—an incapacity for thinking, and a disability in apprehending truth even when made plain—is so common as almost to be described as normal. Special importance attaches to such minds as combine some activity of thought with a lack of corrective judgment. A man who does not think is pi'obably safer than a man who thinks well along certain lines, but who fails to see other sides of the question in hand. Eash judgments are very characteristic of defective minds. So also are truthlessness and a lack of common sense—a defective notion of probability and of feasibility. Odd minds are generally imprac- ticable. Above all these, however, the student should carefully observe those who fail of social quality. The most obvious cases are those in which there is simple defect of sociability. More likely to end in disaster are those who, with a full development of sociability, are devoid of tact. Tact is one of the most interesting and subtle mental functions—a sensitiveness to the feelings of one's neighbours. And perhaps no one sign of the defective mind is so charac- teristic as tactlessness. Human evolution is towards a fuller and fuller understanding be- tween man and man ; and he who fails to realise that he is "rubbing his acquaintance the wrong- way," the man who habitually says and does the wrong things, is singularly prone to mental trouble. Many persons commonly set down as bores or as egoists are of the insane diathesis. And lastly, we have to note those who with perhaps no want of manners are morally defective. Failure to develop self-control may almost be said to be a constant feature in odd minds. General Arrest of Development.—System- atic arrest would, perhaps, better describe the conditions now to be considered. Partial arrest occurs apparently fortuitously in one or another mental function in persons who still pass in