INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF 453 they are still reactions and nothing more. The special reactive qualities of the brain are, as in the case of other organs, dependent upon structure, which in turn is the product of heredity and of environmental influences. The relatively enormous capacity the brain has of being moulded by external physical (sensory) stimuli, and the extraordinary complexity of its reactions, obscure the fact that its structural development and functional activities are de- pendent upon laws identical with those that control the development and functional activities of other organs. This simple and incontrovertible fact can hardly be said to have been recognised, and the pathology of insanity, remaining apart from general pathology, has not yet been given either the position or the support that it deserves. Inability to regard mental diseases from the point of view of general pathology has resulted in an imwarranted belief in heredity as a cause of insanity and in extraordinary tardiness in realising the paramount importance of environ- mental influences as etiological factors. It is still in this country orthodox mental pathology to explain the occurrence of various forms of insanity by saying that the individual has "a bad heredity," or "a neuropathic con- stitution." Such views err in being wholly vmanalytic; they are at the same time un- scientific, for they fail to take into account the existing evidence bearing upon the subject, and science is knowledge founded upon evidence; and, moreover, they are constantly associated with an obsolete doctrine of heredity, according to which children are believed to inherit char- acters from their parents. Heredity alone cannot be a cause of anything ; it is only a moulding force which builds a structure out of environmental material. With the same heredity, the nature of the product will differ within veiy wide limits according to the special and largely accidental characters of the environ- ment. The victim of an attack of insanity, like any other living reactive mechanism, is the joint product of heredity and environment. It may be that certain of his ancestors, the suc- cessive tenements of antecedent converging lines of germ-cells, exhibited morbid mental pheno- mena, but it is impossible to tell how much in these individuals was to be attributed to unfortunate developmental potentialities of the primary germ-cells from which they sprang, and in how far they were the victims of specially unfavourable environmental influences. A history of insanity in ancestors only furnishes presumptive evidence (in many instances quite fallacious) that the original developmental potentialities were such as to favour the for- mation of an individual with certain special re- active qualities. The environmental factors are so numerous, so imcertain, and so potent that, even if the exact developmental potentialities of a primary germ-cell about to develop were known, it would be impossible to forecast with any exactitude what it would become. The instinctive actions of man and of lower animals have been aptly described as functional correlatives of structure. The special structures are developed and perfected in a suitable en- vironment without any process of education, and the actions occur as responses to special stimuli. It is also recognised that these in- stinctive actions tend in course of time to be modified in various ways as a result of ex- perience ; they come, in short, to have added to them some of the features of habits. It is not perhaps so generally realised that habits also are functional correlatives of structure and displayed only in response to special stimuli; they differ from instincts merely in the fact that conscious pro- cesses have been concerned in their development. The capacity for such modification and develop- ment of nervous structure, and consequently for the acquirement of reactive characters higher than those that manifest themselves as instinctive actions, is vastly greater in man than in any of the lower animals. Indeed, it is chiefly in virtue of this greater capacity that he is superior to other animals, and it would appear to be dependent upon a relatively enormous development of associative centres of marvellous impressionability. The more closely their me- chanism is investigated, the more clearly does it appear that the functional acquirements of the nervous system are correlatives of structure and manifest themselves only in response to suitable stimuli. Even the very highest mental function, that of will, the further it is analysed the more it is seen to be merely the reaction to a representation of a certain emotional tone. It is true that we can never carry the analysis so far as to get rid of the possibility of there being a final fiat concerned with it; but this cannot alter the fact of the essentially reactive character of mental processes, as well as of the movements originated by them. Mental ac- quirements are essentially the result of elabora- tion of sensory stimuli which are passed on from the centres for sensation to centres of re- presentation, or the psychical or associative centres, the existence of which is now a matter of certainty, although there is great difierence of opinion regarding their exact localisation. In these centres there is slowly built up a reactive mechanism of marvellous complexity. Con- sciousness is a concomitant of the occurrence of reaction in these psychical centres. Accord- ing to Flechsig, whose views are not, however, accepted by all of those competent to form an opinion upon the question, there are three great associative centres, namely—(1) the prefrontal zone, (2) the insular zone, and (3) the parieto- occipito-temporal zone. The centres for speech are included in these zones, their function being psychical in character. It seems probable that