DISEASES OF 530 INTESTINES, disease. In children, the subjects of primary tuberculous ulceration of the intestine, diarrhosa attended by loss of weight and strength out of proportion to its severity, loss of appetite and sickness, with abdominal tenderness and dis- tension, and the existence of palpable glands in the abdomen, may make a diagnosis possible; but in the absence, after the lapse of some time, of other evidence of tuberculous affection, it is often impossible to have a positive opinion. Diagnosis.—Lardaceous disease of the intes- tine may give rise to diarrhoea and recourse for diagnostic purposes may be had to the examina- tion of the fseces for tubercle bacilli, and if these are regularly found in the stools, a dia- gnosis of tuberculous ulceration is justifiable. As lardaceous disease frequently coexists with phthisis, it is not unlikely that diarrhoea occur- ring in the last stage may be caused both by tuberculous and lardaceous disease. Treatment.—The majority of cases occur in connection with pulmonary tuberculosis, and the intestinal lesion is both late and secondary. Remedies to alleviate the diarrhoea are the most generally applicable. The primary disease re- quires first attention, and in most cases this treatment consists in restraining the diarrhoea, diminishing the fermentation in the intestine, and regulating the diet, so as to avoid as much as possible exciting fresh inflammation in the highly susceptible intestine. For the diarrhoea, astringents are always useful, and of these chalk and opium, kino and catechu, give the best results. Opium by the mouth occasionally causes vomiting, and may then be tried as a suppository or an enema. Salol, in five or ten grain doses, is sometimes useful, as it restrains the diarrhoea and diminishes putrefactive fermenta- tion and flatulence. It is said to inhibit the action of the putrefactive as well as the tubercle bacilli. Attention to diet as laid down under " En- teritis " is useful, and it is well to give sterile foods, avoiding every article of diet calculated to irritate the intestine. By these means we may hope not only to restrain diarrhoea but to promote the healing of ulcers, and by avoiding fermentation to diminish abdominal distension and the risk of perforation. If much abdominal discomfort exists, warmth, applied to the ab- domen as a poultice fomentation, or dry heat, is comforting. If general peritonitis exists, opium should be given freely if the case is hope- less, but it is possible that an occasional case of perforation from a tuberculous ulcer might be treated by adominal section, with the object of cleansing the peritoneum, and either of stitch- ing the perforation or resecting the bowel at the site of the lesion. In children with primary ulceration of the intestine, the soui'ce of affec- tion should be ascertained if possible, and per- haps fresh invasions be avoided by the substitu- tion of sterile food. Diarrhoea is to be restrained by suitable astringents, and means taken to improve the nutrition of the child by general hygienic measures, cod-liver oil, maltine, etc. Strict directions should be given to the mother to ensure the proper ventilation of the nursery, the disinfection of stools, the leading of an out- of-door life in a suitable locality, and, in fact, the case should be regarded as one of grave tuberculous disease, and treated on the general principles now finding so much favour in the modern treatment of consumption. (2) Ulcers of the Duodenum occur as :— (a) Acute primary ulcers ; and Chronic secondary ulcers. (a) Acute primary ulcer of the duodenum has the same pathology as acute gastric ulcer, and the only points necessary to consider in connec- tion with it are the modification of symptoms and sequeloe in virtue of its different site. (5) Chronic secondary ulcer of the duodenum occurs most frequently after severe burns, and these, indeed, constitute the most important group of this class, but they also, though rarely, occur in portal congestion, specific fevers, and in septicfemia. It is not understood why iilcers occur in the duodenum after severe burns, nor is the rationale of their production explained. As in gastric ulcer, peptic digestion is rendered possible by the lowered nutrition of a limited area of the mucous membrane, and several theories have been advanced to account for this. Septic emboli in the duodenal vessels are said to occur, but have never been demonstrated microscopically, and artificial emboli experi- mentally introduced into the circulation rarely affect the stomach and duodenum, but when affected they are equally so, whereas ulcers following burns occur more frequently in the duodenmn than in the stomach. Hunter has shown that when toluylidiamine is subcutane- ously injected in the dog, it is eliminated by the bile, and causes duodenitis and ulceration of the duodenal mucous membrane. He there- fore suggests that toxic irritating jjroducts ab- sorbed from burns are eliminated by the bile and cause similar lesions. Against this theory is the fact quoted by Fenwick that similar lesions occur if the bile-duct is ligatured, and also that after burns ulcers occasionally occur in the stomach. Burns, it is known, ai'e accompanied by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bowels, and also by gastritis. This may be sufficient explanation of duodenal ulceration, but Fenwick suggests that the stomach and intestines may eliminate poisonous septic products which act as irritants, in the same manner as urea injected subcutaneously appears in tbe stomach and is found as crystals. The same authority quotes an experiment in which he injected albuminose prepared from septic sloughs of burns, and by these means produced "appreciable duodenitis." Situation.—The most usual site of duodenal ulcer is between the opening of the bile and