480 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS Reproductive System.—Menstruation is almost invariably disturbed before insanity and the sexual function modified. The mental signs of impending insanity need not be enlarged upon. However, it may be noted that, except in the rare cases of almost in- stantaneous onset, the patient's habits invariably change before an attack ; the domestic, personal, and business traditions are departed from. That is much more significant than any actual feeling or idea expressed by the patient. If the state of mind which excites the physician's suspicion has not been preceded by altered habits, there is almost certainly no acute attack impending unless there are some extraordinary circum- stances to cause it, a disaster or other great shock. We must therefore inquire carefully into the circumstantial facts in every doubtful case. In an interview with the patient greater importance attaches to facial expression and to manner than to what he says and does. Before insanity has become actual, patients almost in- variably change in appearance, and express pre- occupation, suspicion, or dread, even if they do not admit it. At the same time the face assumes an unwonted brightness or dulness. In every instance it is a change from what is normal in the patient's case that is significant. Nearly every function which I have specified— both mental and bodily—will be found to alter when acute insanity is coming on, and the physician who systematically investigates his case will very rarely be taken by surprise. When the attack has begun, and during its course, these bodily symptoms become aggra- vated. Derangements of a constitutional kind and disorders of one or other of the systems are almost invariable in episodic insanity. But the symptoms are so variable that we shall not enlarge upon them in the following account. V. Types of Episodic Insanity Having glanced at the permanent abnor- malities, we now consider acute insanity as it appears as an episode in the life-history of a mind. Sometimes these actual insanities occur in persons such as have been described as of the insane diathesis, and in that case the disease may be traced as a gradual development of habitual modes of thought and of feeling. In other words, a constitutionally abnormal personality may become more abnormal and cross the line beyond which the patient may not be regarded as responsible or as fit to take charge of his life and affairs. Or some accessory cause or some crisis in development may lead to a gross cerebral disturbance, which becomes evident as a definite and well-marked departure from the usual mode of consciousness. And that is what always happens in the case of persons who, though not of a recognised type of abnormal mental variation, suffer an episodic insanity. From any of the causes, except in- heritance, such as Dr. Urquhart has enumer- ated, a fairly orderly mind may suffer a cerebral attack, and such an insanity is an invasion of the personality, slow or sudden, under which the normal character may disappear and give place to feelings and beliefs and conduct which are quite alien to it. That is, subconsciousness may usurp personality. And it must greatly enlarge our conception of the subconscious to study types of insanity. For the very fact that there are such types implies that the human brain, on a plane a little lower than that which becomes realised in sane life, is still a more or less constant and systematised organ. To my mind that is a very important conception, and one which is perhaps not realised by all physicians who concern themselves with mental functions. In a lesion of the motor area with partial paralysis the abeyance of movement is not followed by indefinite incoordinations, but by secondary symptoms which are systematic. If the lesion is unilateral, muscles of the sound side produce an excessive effect, as in pushing the tongue or drawing the mouth aside. Similarly, if the lesion is high up, the descend- ing order follows quite definite and systematic paths. The spastic gait or that of tabes is characteristic because it is more or less constant, because the excessive contractions in the sur- viving muscles depend on the systematic arrangement of the surviving mechanisms. An exactly analogous system or organisation per- vades the lower mental areas, so that, when personality fails, the brain does not manifest sheer disorder, but usually reveals a typical activity of surviving mechanisms. What type it will be depends upon constitution and upon the seat of the lesion. The best example in point is that of alternating personality (double consciousness), a most interesting and not un- common form of insanity. In that disease, when the first personality subsides, the cerebral activities are determined by mechanisms of a second personality which were, so to speak, waiting in readiness for their opportunity. But though not so obviously, every insanity reveals an analogous ordei'liness. Even acute mania is not really a disordered but a quite systematic over-activity of sensori-motor mechan- isms. Were these facts not so there would be, as I have said, no types of insanity, and the insane would be perhaps weeping because they were millionaires, or committing suicide in order to get the crops in, or making homicidal attacks on all and sundry because tables should be made of glass. Such real incoherence is extremely rare. Moi-eover, the types of insanity which we do recognise are for the most part secondary symptoms. They are analogous to a description of motor paralysis in terms of the contractures and hyperajsthesias of the surviving mechanisms, as Hughlings Jackson long ago pointed out. Acute insanity is a greater or less degree of