HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 120 cussing from the left axilla towards the middle line just above this line represents the apex of the heart, and therefore of the left ventricle. There remains to be determined the summit of the cardiac area of dulness. This determina- tion should be made in the so-called parasternal line—a line drawn vertically downwards an inch to the left of the sternum. Extension of the cardiac didness upwards in this situation dejDends commonly on effusion into the pericardium (a condition not considered in this article), or on enlargement of the infundibulum of the right ventricle—conus arteriosus. Normally there should be no extension of the cardiac dulness above the third cartilage. Of course, all these remarks ^^resuppose air-containing lung paren- chyma in the neighbourhood of the heart. In noting the features of a cardiac case, the size and shape of the heart form most important points in the formation of the diagnosis. For all practical purposes measurements in the two directions indicated above, and the noting of the rib to which the cardiac dulness reaches upwards, afford a perfectly sufficient statement of the size and shape of the heart. The results can be noted in a very brief yet perfectly satis- factory manner thus : The costal cartilage to which the cardiac dulness reaches upwards in the left parasternal line is stated in Roman figures III. or II., as the case may be, and a line is drawn underneath, as under the numerator of a fraction. Underneath this line is placed, in Arabic figures, and to the observer's left, the distance stated in inches to which the right border of dulness extends to the right of the middle line, and to the observer's right the distance, stated in inches, to which the dulness extends to the left of the middle line at the level of the cardiac apex, which is of course the extremity of both the left ventricle and the whole heart. The note is made as if it were sketched in chalk on the patient's chest. In the normal heart there is practically no dulness to be detected to the right of the sternum. Moreover, the difficulty of detecting a difference, in their percussion sound, between the right and left halves of the sternum, as it lies over the heart, is great and often insuper- able. It suffices, then, to note any impairment of resonance there may be to the right of this bone, and to measure the extent of such impaired resonance in inches from the middle line at the level indicated. When any absolute dulness is found beyond the right sternal border it may be assumed at once that the right auricle is much enlarged. The writer has known such dulness to extend almost to the i-ight mammary line, the right auricle being found post-mortem to have become a huge thin-walled .sac, in all probability incapable of systole. Absolute dul- ness, of course, signifies that the distended chamber has disjjlaccd the right lung which normally overlies it. In ordinary heart cases the cardiac dulness to the right of the middle line varies from an inch to an inch and a half. It may be assumed that increase of dulness in the direction indicated implies impaired con- tractility on the part of the right auricle. To the left of the sternimi, four inches from the middle line may be considered the maximum measurement of a normal heart, and the dulness will reach as far only exceptionally and in very large individuals. Usually in individuals with sound hearts the maximum measurement to the left of the middle line does not exceed 3-^ inches. Some examples of measurements in actual cases may be given in illustration of these con- siderations. The measiirement —'-, in a case 4—f) of mitral stenosis, denoted great enlargement of the right auricle, which had no doubt become little more than a simple reservoir, moderate enlargement of the left ventricle, and enlarge- ment of the infundibulum of the right ventricle. The disproportionate enlargement of the right side of the heart is well shown by the figure above, and by that to the observer's left. The measurement -—represented the cardiac dul- o—/ ness in a case of aoi'tic incompetence late in the course of the disease, the right auricle having become much distended while the left ventricle was huge. The measurement ^'^ may be taken as representing the average size of the heart in cases of mitral stenosis, when admitted to hospital with engorgement of the right auricle. The distension of this chambei", in cases of moderate severity, rapidly subsides vmder rest and treatment, and the correspond- ing measurement of dulness to the right as rapidly diminishes. Auscultation.—The evidence afforded by this method of physical examination is too often accorded a value greater than it merits, althotigli it must be granted that in some "cases it adds a precision to diagnosis unattainable by the other methods, and in all cases it gives the finishing touches to the diagnosis as far as that is based on physical signs. At the outset of this subject the student must be impressed with the necessity of studying the physiological soiuids of the heart and such modifications of them as there may be, before he attends to the adven- titious sounds present. lie cannot too soon realise the fact that many heart cases run their course from first to last vnthout the development of any niurmur. Among the variations that may be met with in the heart-sounds of apparently heart-healthy individuals there are many minor and, it is believed, imimportant ones. When the left ventricle is hypertrophied and thick- walled, the arterial tension being high, the first sound is often dull and toneless, while when the walls are thin and the cavity dilated, the arterial tension being low, the first sound is