446 INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF must recognise the facts, and endeavour to assess the amount of degeneracy when called upon in courts of law. For instance, in the case of Lawrie who committed a murder in Arran, insanity could not be proved; but he was declared to be so far degenerate or abnormal that he should not be hanged; yet he was suffi- ciently master of himself to undergo the modi- fied punishment which was awarded him. This morbid heredity, however it has arisen, is transmissible from parents to offspring. It may not be a certain form of insanity—it is rather a certain morbid conditioning of the nervous system which may declare itself as a neurosis in one generation and as a typical in- sanity in the next. The neurotic alcoholic is likely to propagate epilepsy, and the children of a hypochondriac may suffer from suicidal melan- cholia. Indeed, there is often a similarity in the very form of the insanity transmitted, even in the mode of suicide in successive generations. It will be seen, then, that heredity may be altered by careful or by fortunate selection, the morbid constitution may be improved by the prepotency of healthy new stock. The causes of degeneration manifested in neuroses and insanity are not far to seek. Briefly, we may group them as faults of inherit- ance, of civilisation, of alimentation, and of toxic origin. We have seen how the laws of heredity are illustrated in the production of insanity. In conformity with the general observation, we remark that exhausting diseases in parents are followed by a weak offspring, and in degenerates there is a failure to develop shown by harelip or other monstrosities. The instability is the heredity, and the faulty nervous system is the first cause. The more we study the intimate family history of each insane patient the more convinced we are of these ante- cedent circumstances. In the incidence of influenza now so commonly assigned as a cause of insanity, there is hardly a case to be found where hereditary defect cannot be traced. Where, then, did this evil begin 1 Is it a mere variation transmitted by direct inheritance 1 We believe not. In the mobile and varying circumstances of human life, in the progress of the race through the centuries, there must be a certain proportion of human beings who fall below the normal standard. By the mating of these, their generations successively become more unfit for the struggle for existence. In sub-human groups they would disappear at an early stage, but we are so accustomed to the methods of civilisation that we are apt to forget this. In the degenerative tendencies of mental disease we see families extinguished, the last survivor dying in the asylum. It is the con- servation of civilisation which, so far, preserves those who are unfit, and we shall have yet to consider whether civilisation has its remedy. Civilisation no doubt has a share in the pro- duction of insanity, but it is far from certain if that share can be estimated. The negroes of the United States of America were remarkably free from insanity under moi'e primitive condi- tions. That immunity has disappeared, and they are now to be found crowding the asylums of the Southern States. But there are definite agencies at work in this unfortunate state of matters. Tubercle and syphilis have found a nidus in the negro, and he is suffering degenera- tion on the physical side in proportion to the mental degradation. Here we have, within a few years, an object lesson as to the effects of heredity on Darwinian principles. The germ cells have been affected, and in spite of Weiss- mann's declaration that they are apart from the soma, the results of a vicious civilisation are apparent. For civilisation has its vices and defects, and our boasted attainments and superiority over the "dark ages" are in some respects expressions in an optimistic vein. In its train civilisation has brought crowded cities, the factory system, squalid homes, and an ill- regulated population ; or, at the other extreme, an unhealthy plutocracy, with a vacant, idle, and irresponsible life, craving for daily excite- ments, and gambling health away in the hot pursuit of pleasure. The benefits of civilisation cannot bribe us to shut our eyes to these un- seemly facts, but should rather induce us to avoid the perils of our time, and to improve the conditions of the race. It is unlikely that ancient civilisations held a better place in re- spect of human life and happiness, or that the causes now operative in the production of in- sanity were formerly unknown. What concerns us more is the question as to whether insanity is really increasing in western civilisation, and specially if the increasing burden is as alarming and unpromising as it appears at first sight to be. In some forty years the number of insane persons coming under the cognisance of the Lunacy Departments of England, Scotland, and Ireland approximately expanded by 70,000,9400, and 6200 respectively. These are figures which seize the popular imagination, and raise questions as to the possibility of stemming the rapidly rising tide. We cannot but believe that there is some increase of the occurring insanity as well as a vast increase in the registered in- sanity. Dr. Ireland has shown that the number of deaths from diseases of the nervous SA'stcm in Scotland has grown by about one-third since 1855. No doubt much of this increase may be explained away by a better system of registration and wider knowledge, just as it may be argued that the increase in insanity and its allied con- ditions is indicative of an evolutionary advance with which weaklings cannot keep pace. The question has lately engaged the attention of the State departments in lunacy, and their general conclusion is that there is no alarming increase.