INDIGESTION 384 attain to a certain proportion in the blood, initiate a critical paroxysm, followed by a longer or shorter period of quiescence. Megrim, associ- ated with gouty habit, is explicable on similar grounds. When intimately connected in women with the menstrual function, the periodical stimulus to the nervous system thus afforded suffices to liberate any morbid surplus of nerve energy, in conjunction with the usual concomitants of such cases,—constipation and some degree of auto-intoxication. Long made a scapegoat in megrim, the liver is more probably a companion in misfortune than an organ meriting blame. The symptoms accompanying attacks of megrim are most variable in character; practi- cally the only features which are constantly presented being the paroxysmal nature of occur- rence, the entire absence of cognate symptoms throughout the intervals, and the intense feeling of nausea produced during the later stages of the attack. Hemicrania; ocular disturbances, such as hemianopsia, scotoma, and subjective perception of apparent visual objects, coloured or uncoloured; mental confusion, paraesthetic symptoms on one side of the body, and post- paroxysmal nervous phenomena,—aphasia, tem- porary loss of memory, — may severally be present or absent. Vomiting, or some other form of critical evacuation, usually intervenes before subsidence of an attack ; but this is not invariably the case, the nausea sometimes disappearing gradu- ally apart from actual crisis. Flatulent Dyspepsia.—Gastric flatulence may be of two kinds; either the result of fermenta- tive processes taking place in the contents of the stomach, or of nervous origin. When fermenta- tion of food-stufFs constitutes the source of the gas there usually coexists a lack of hydrochloric acid, secretion of which has diminished owing to catarrh of the gastric mucous membrane, atrophy of its cells, or nervous inhibitory action ; and the tendency towards gaseous evolution is increased in each instance if some degree of stagnation of the gastric contents is also present. Flatulence of this nature corresponds in degree and in character with the variety of food in- gested ; the more readily fermentescible the food - stuff the greater the ebulition of gas. Should the stomach be dilated, and residual remnants from former meals be left in it after the normal time of emptying, while the proportion of hydrochloric present is insufficient to prevent fermentation, the symptoms of flatulence may obtain irrespective of meal-time or form of food. The gas proceeding from fermentative processes generally possesses an odour corresponding to the nature of the process producing it; is most abundant after the ingestion of farinaceous foods; and is increased by the administration of alkalies. In rare instances the presence of marsh gas has been detected by its ignition on contact with a flame of the mouth. In many examples of purely nervous dyspepsia, unassociated with fermentative processes, symp- toms of flatulence are often met with, astonish- ing in the volume of gas evolved. Here the formation of gas is independent of the character and the ingestion of food; the gas itself is odourless, tasteless, is apparently expelled with- out effort or much discomfort, and may be due either to excessive entrance of carbonic acid gas from the blood stream into the stomach cavity, owing to abnormal nerve action, or to ex- pulsion of atmospheric air previously swallowed. Indeed, air-swallowing and ei'uctating forms a special type of neurotic indigestion. Indigestion in Dilatation of the Stomach.— The degree of dilatation present modifies the character of the symptoms shown. In minor forms, where enlargement of the stomach scarcely amormts to true dilatation, the megastria of Ewald, characteristic symptoms may be absent, only a few of the signs common to chronic gastric catarrh of mild type attracting notice. Where the degree of dilatation is more pro- nounced, symptoms indicative of delayed empty- ing of the stomach-contents, of stasis, and fei"- mentative processes in the residuum left in the viscus, appear in most instances. But it is of importance to remember that the symptoms presented by the possessors of a dilated stomach vary directly with the cause of the dilatation. Where the condition has arisen as the sequel of habitual over-distension of the organ with food or with fluid, leading ultimately to loss of muscular tone, the chief fault lies not so much in loss of digestive power as in defective motility ; where dilatation follows atonic dyspepsia, after long-continued chronic catarrhal conditions have injured both the secretory and motor functions of the stomach, stasis of the contents is aggravated by deficient digestive properties; in the by no means infrequent examples of dilatation, to all appearance solely due to en- feebled resilience and motility through lack of efficient nervous control, a most incongruous series of symptoms may be presented, the ordi- nary symptoms of a dilated stomach being masked by some of the many possible in nervous dyspepsias; and, lastly, where dilatation of the stomach depends upon a stenosis of the pyloric orifice, the symptoms and signs correspond. In addition, it should be further mentioned that the signs accompanying gastric dilatation from pyloric stenosis vary with the nature of the con- striction. Omitting consideration of cancer of the pylorus at present, simple hypertrophy of the pyloric muscular and connective-tissue coats may lead to narrowing of its lumen, and prove a hindrance to the escape of stomach contents, and contracture of cicatricial tissue over the site of an old ulcer acts similarly. Occasionally hyperacidity of the gastric contents leads to temporary spasmodic closure of the pyloric sphincter by reason of irritation of the nerve-