INTESTINES, DISEASES OF 529 final destruction. The villi, as a rule, are shrunken and atrophied. Sym}:)tomx.—The acute form merges into the chronic gradually; the bodily health depreciates; the complexion becomes muddy; there is per- sistent diarrhoea; appetite is impaired ; nausea is present; anremia and loss of weight follow, and absorption of poisons from the intestinal canal cause listlessness and hypochondria. Con- stipation alternates with diarrhoea. This form of enteritis is more usually located in the large than in the small intestine. Prognosis is bad, for this is a secondary disease, occurring in the later stages of Bright's disease, heart disease, chronic pyaemia, etc. Treatment is palliative; and the astringent and sedative remedies used in acute intestinal catarrh are employed. A bland, easily digested food, which yields but little residue, is desirable. Tonics, such as quinine and iron, if there is much anaemia, are useful. Change of scene with hydropathic treatment are very useful. Each case of chronic enteritis must be treated more on the principle of removal or amelioration of its original causative disease than by the administration of remedies acting on the in- testinal tract. Ulcers of the Intestine (1) Tuberculous Vlcers of the Intestine.— Tuberculous infection of the intestine occurs as a primary or as a secondary disease. As a primary disease it is most frequently found in children, though it occurs in adults, in either case the tubercle bacilli being introduced through the medium of tuberculous milk, etc. As a secondary disease the most common mode of in- fection is by swallowing of phthisical sputum. It is, however, evident that any medium con- taining tubercle bacilli when swallowed may be the starting-point of tuberculous ulceration of the bowels. The intestine may also be the site of a miliary tubercle deposited there in a case of general tuberculosis. It by no means follows that an individual who has swallowed one or many doses of tubercle bacilli gets intestinal tubercle. The bacilli must find conditions favourable to its growth, and in an individual predisposed. Certain pre-existing lesions of the intestine appear to favour the deposition and growth of the tubercle bacillus, e.g. follicular ulcers, chronic non-inflammatory catarrh, etc. Infection may also occur by extension from the peritoneum or by the discharge of tuber- culous pus into the bowel. Situation.—Tuberculous ulceration of the in- testine is least rare in the caecum and lower part of the ileum, and diminishes in frequency above and below this point, the diiodenum being but rarely affected. The rarity of tuberculous lesions in the higher part of the intestine is attributed to the destructive or inhibitory effect VOL. IV of tlie acid of the stomach and upper part of the bowel on the tubercle bacillus. Anatoviical Characte7-i sties. — Tuberculosis arising in the mvicosa appears first as a number of little, hard nodular projections in the lymph follicles. The tips of the nodules then become grey and caseate, break down and separate, forming a number of small ragged ulcers. If the caseating nodules lie close together, they coalesce, or if a Peyer's patch is the site an ulcer is formed having the following charac- teristics :—The floor, formed of the submucosa, is rough, infiltrated, inflamed, and presents caseous nodules. The edges are sinuous and irregular, and slightly undermined. Tuber- culous deposit and infiltration extend beyond the edge of the ulcer. The mucous membrane beyond the ulcer is for a certain distance in- flamed, but if the ulcers are not close together healthy mucous membrane may intervene. The direction of the ulcer is generally ti'ansverse to the long axis of the intestine, and it is in shape oblong, but it may be round. Looked at from the outside of the bowel, the floor of the ulcer is seen to be thickened, and frequently small stellate cicatrices are visible, showing that the serous and muscular coats are involved. Ad- hesions may occur to the neighbouring coils from spreading inflammation, and perforation seldom occurs. Tuberculous are distinguished from typhoid ulcers by their transverse direction, by their irregular, ragged, and infiltrated edges, by their thickened bases, and by the existence of small caseous nodules in their proximity. Tuberculous disease begins in the lymph follicles, spreads by the lymphatics and infects the mes- enteric lymph glands. The ultimate result of tuberculous ulceration is, in the vast majority of cases, death, because it usually occurs in the excavating stages of phthisis. Fifty per cent of phthisical patients have ulcers of the intestine. They may, though rarely, perforate, or may heal and cause stricture of lihe intestine at one or many points. More rarely healing probably takes place without their existence being suspected, and without leaving noticeable permanent damage to the intestine during life. Symptoms.—If persistent diarrhoea occurs in phthisis, tuberculous ulceration of the intestine is the likely cause. Tuberculous vilceration, however, does not always produce diarrhoea, and as in non-tuberculous inflammation of the in- testine, speaking generally, diarrhoea is more likely to occur the nearer the ulceration is to the rectum. Tuberculous ulceration of the large intestine nearly always gives rise to diarrhoea. Blood may be present in the motions, which are frequently foetid on account of the bacterial putrefaction, and for the same reason tympanitis is often marked. Tubercle bacilli can, as a rule, be detected in the stools in cases of tuberculous ulceration of the intestine, but their absence is not positive proof of the absence of tuberculous 34