HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF 244 Tlie treatment consists in protecting and supporting the joint; when only one joint is affected advantage may be derived from a Thomas or other splint, along with a patten and crutches; in bilateral cases, from the use of crutches alone. Hysterical Joint.—The neuro-mimetic or hysterical joint affection is very rare at the hip ; most importance attaches to the differential diagnosis, which has been already described under tuberculous disease. Loose bodies are chiefly met with in associa- tion with arthritis deformans and with Charcot's disease; they possess little or no clinical signifi- cance. Diseases of the BuRSiE in the Region op THE Hip.—The bursae concerned are—(1) be- tween the ilio-psoas muscle and the anterior aspect of the capsular ligament of the hip, which may communicate with the joint; (2) those in relation to the great trochanter, a superficial one between the skin and the tendon of the gluteus maximus, and a deeper one, often multilocular, between the gluteus maximus and the origin of the vastus externus; (3) over the ischial tuberosity; (4) beneath the attachment of the hamstring muscles to the ischial tuber- osity ; (5) between the obturator internus and the margin of the small sciatic foramen ; this bursa may communicate with another between the tendon of the muscle and the hip-joint. The diseases met with in these bursse include the so-called traumatic inflammations (trade- bursitis), and those resulting from tuberculosis, pyogenic infection, gonorrhoea, syphilis, gout, rheumatism, etc. ( Vide article " BursfE " in vol. ii. p. 40.) In disease of the bursa beneath the ilio-psoas the limb may be flexed, abducted, and rotated out as in tuberculous disease of the hip or of the psoas muscle; from the first of these the dia- gnosis is made by testing the movements at the joint, from psoas abscess by the swelling being confined to the region of the hip, viz. at the upper and inner part of Scarpa's triangle. In disease of the bmsa betiveen the gluteus maximus and great trochanter the attitude of the limb may resemble that of hip disease ; most difliculty will be found, however, in differentiat- ing between tuberculous disease originating in the bursa and a cold abscess associated with disease in the trochanter itself; the diagnosis is rarely established until the swelling (or any sinus following on its rupture) is explored by operation. Tumours in the region of the hip are so rare in comparison with other diseases that their existence usually remains unsuspected until their nature is revealed by the progress of the case. The innocent tumours include chondro- mata and osteomata arising from the trochanter or pelvis ; the diagnosis is not diflicult unless in exceptional cases; for example, the bursa over an exostosis may undergo rapid enlargement, and the patient may not be aware of the exist- ence of the exostosis, and applies for advice con- cerning the bursa, which may be so large that it hides the tumour, and may be mistaken for a chronic abscess or other fluid swelling. The nature of the case may not be recognised until the swelling is incised. Frimary sarcoma may originate in the femur or pelvis; at an early stage the diagnosis from hip disease may be diflicult or impossible; it has already been referred to under tuberculosis. The examination of the patient must include that of the rectum and the use of skiagraphs. In the later stages the nature of the disease is evidenced by distension of the cutaneous veins, oedema of the limb, pulsation of the tumour, egg-shell crackling, and the occurrence of spontaneous fracture. Secondary cancer is by no means uncommon in the upper end of the femur following cancer in the breast, prostate, thyroid, intestine, or liver; it is not recognised as a rule until the occurrence of spontaneous fracture. As far as treatment is concerned it is carried out on the usual lines in the case of the inno- cent tumours. In primary sarcoma it usually implies disarticulation at the hip by a racket incision, the handle of the racket being so placed as to permit of the ligature of the main vessels at an early stage of the operation. The soft parts are then divided in stages, well above the limits of the growth. There have been successful cases in which part or even the whole of the innominate bone has been removed along with the limb. Paralysis of the Muscles at the Hip—Paralytic Contracture and Dislocation.—These are chiefly met with in children suffering from spinal or cerebral paralysis. At the first onset the limb is helpless and the joint is flail-like; if recovery takes place to such an extent that the child is able to walk, the attitude and gait may resemble that of congenital dislocation; where the affec- tion is bilateral, the child has been known to walk with the hips acutely flexed so that the chest rests on the knees. The gait may be improved by some form of rigid apparatus which fixes the thigh to the trunk, or by securing an artificial ankylosis at the hip-joint (arthrodesis). Cases are more often met with in which the child has been confined to bed (or at any rate is unable to walk), and contracture has taken place in the attitude of flexion, adduction, and internal rotation ; dislocation on to the dorsum ilii may be superadded. It is of great import- ance to prevent such deformity by suitable splints and extension; when it has occurred, the question of correcting it will depend on the general condition of the patient and on the functions of the limb, apart from the attitude at the hip. The operative treatment is carried