HEMATURIA 28 Placing aside for the present the hsematviria due to hydatid disease, the renal haemorrhages of the greatest practical importance, from our present standpoint, are those arising from injury, renal calculus, tumours of the kidney, and tuberculous disease of that organ. Having determined that the haemorrhage is not from the lower urinary tract, it remains to ascertain which of those four causes is to blame. When the hsemorrhage is due to renal calcxdus it is usually small in amount, sometimes con- stantly present, but generally with more or less prolonged intervals, and commonly oft-repeated. In some instances, however, the htematuria is very slight, while in other cases it may be the only symptom. The bleeding is not closely related to pain or to the development of other symptoms, but as a rule it is increased by move- ments of the body. This, however, does not follow immediately, but a short interval may elapse—hours, or even days—between the exer- tion and the appearance of the blood in the urine. While the hsematuria of renal calculus is more copious after exercise, rest in bed usually appreciably diminishes it. This peculiarity is most characteristic. The blood, it must be borne in mind, is derived from the renal pelvis and not from the parenchyma; consequently renal blood-casts are not found in the lu-ine, and the quantity of albumin is fully explained by the presence of blood. When the urine is evacuated the blood is thoroughly mixed with it, but not so intimately as when the cause of the hsematuria is structural disease of the kidney, and if the urine be allowed to stand for a few hours the blood corpuscles are readily precipitated and leave the supernatant urine clear. If free from blood the urine will also be found to be non-albuminous. The presence or absence of pus in the urine will be determined by the circumstance whether or not the calculus has induced inflammatory changes, and the existence of a swelling in the I'enal region will depend upon the amount of freedom for the escape of urine by the ureter. Renal ha3morrhage from tumour is generally more profuse and less transient than from calculus, and in not a few cases it is so copious as to cause marked anaemia—a result seldom induced by calculous hsematuria. It is often developed without any preceding pain. In calculous disease injury or exercise commonly provokes the bleeding, and therefore one finds the haemorrhage more profuse during the day while the patient is moving about. The bleed- ing from tumovu's is, on the contrary, most likely to occiu' during the night, while the patient is at rest in a recumbent posture. The urinary deposit may assist one in the diagnosis. Concre- tions composed of oxalate of lime, uric acid, phosphates, or urates may indicate the character of the stone ; while by carefully filtering the urine in cases of tumour, portions of the growtli may be procured for microscopic examination. The presence of a persistent swelling in the renal region, associated with considerable haema- turia, is of significance, and may be held as clearly indicating the presence of a neoplasm in the kidney. Exceptions to this rule have, however, been recorded by Ebstein, Hirtz, and Fleming. But while this is so, it must not be forgotten that the presence of a palpable new formation may for a considerable time be pre- ceded by the presence of blood in the urine. Considerable distension of the pelvis may be produced by a calculus obstructing the ureter, and so lead to a swelling in the renal region, or the bulging in the loin may be caused by enlargement of the kidney from tuberculous disease ; in neither of these conditions, however, does hsematuria frequently occur. In the latter the very obstruction which causes an increase in bulk of the kidney prevents the haemorrhage. Although much difficulty is often experienced in distinguishing calculous hsematuria from that caused by tumours, there is still greater care required in the diagnosis between the haemor- rhage of early tubercidous disease and that of renal calculus. The symptoms of the two latter conditions are sometimes identical. This is especially so when the patient fails to show any other evidence of tuberculous disease than that revealed by the renal lesion. In tuberculous disease haematuria is frequently absent for long intervals, is seldom so severe as in stone, and is not increased by exercise. In both conditions pus may be mixed with the urine; but while in the latter concretions and gravel may be discovered, in the former careful and repeated search may demonstrate the presence of tuberculous bacilli. In the early stage of tuberculous disease of the kidney the quantity of albumin in the urine is generally in excess of that accounted for by the blood, and in the later stages, when pus appears in con- siderable quantity, the pus and blood are not so rapidly or so completely precipitated from the urine as in calculous pyelitis. The presence of phthisis pulmonalis, tuberculous disease of bones or joints of the testicle, the prostate, the vesiculae seminales, the mesenteric glands, the intestine, or of the lower urinary tract, may give a clue to the cause of the hsematiiria. HaemautOgraph. —The tracing ob- tained by allowing the blood from a cut artery to spout on the surface of a revolving drum. Hsemelytrometra. — An accumula- tion of blood in the cavities of the vagina and uterus. See Uterus, Malformations of {Atresia of Vaginal Orifice). Haemidrosis. See H^emathidrosis. Hsemin.—The hydrochloride of hscmatin, formed by heating blood with chloride of sodium