466 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS submit. A considerable number of the insane suggest that they possess these occult powers. Apart from these, it is certainly the case that many patients, in contrast with the moral imbeciles, find their way into asylums as to a refuge from an ungentle world not civilised enough for their too self-sacrificing natures. These then are the modes of consciousness to which the physician must have regard if he would understand either acute insanity or the much more common and not less important cases which will be described presently under the term, abnormal mental variations—cases of abnormal cerebral development manifest in all forms of eccentricity. They are modes of con- sciousness which have been arbitrarily empha- sised, and we might elaborate upon them indefinitely. I have selected them not only because they seem to designate well-marked biological stages, but also because they become manifest in types of insanity. Melancholia, for example, is a relapse to an almost exclusive self- regard, a loss of outward relations. Mania is the converse—-an excess of objective attention, either as exaggerated and incoherent notice of what is in the neighbourhood, or as extravagant outward activity, and generally both. De- mentia, if anything worth calling consciousness survives, probably denotes a relapse to the visceral phase, which is also conspicuous in some melancholias. Delusion is an unrelated survival of primitive thinking. And in insanity the less systematic modes of mind also hold the field. Nothing is commoner in our asylums, for example, than the fugitive idea ; a bald and unblushing devotion to the domestic ideal of primitive man is common enough ; predatory instincts are laid bare in many chronic insani- ties ; sensory hypersesthesia is much more common than most physicians are aware, and is probably very acute in many neurasthenic melancholies, and in delusional and hysterical patients ; daft constructiveness, outvying even the futility of a benighted beaver or ant, con- stitutes the entertainment of many a happy dement; and less advanced cases spend long- hours in inept imaginings. With less assurance we may suppose that some of the over-activities of our patients are modes of thinking and of feeling appropriate perhaps to a stage of evolu- tion still a long way hence. And these modes of attention are still more evident in the ab- normal, still short of ccrtifiably insane. Any observant physician will be aware of a large number of acquaintances whose minds are abnormally visceral, or predatory, or fugitive, or constructive, domestic, self-regarding, given over to futile observation, or lost in inept specu- lation. For the mind of man has not altered very much in kind, l)ut only moves on a differ- ent plane, and has to concern itself with new kinds of things. (2) Personality and Subconsciousness.—In attempting to conceive the cerebral relation which mental processes admittedly have, the physician should be guided by his familiar knowledge of the interdependence between brain and mind on the level of simple functions. We all habitually think of vision or of heai-ing, for example, of articulation or of penmanship, as dependent upon cerebral activities on the Rolandic level. Yet these are, or may be, mental processes. And what is true of them is true of the higher functions. Integrity of the prte-frontal cortex is essential to proper feeling, to sound thinking, to right conduct. It is equally futile to explain the mind as independ- ent of cerebral processes, and to explain it as wholly determined by them. The relation is one of many of an analogous kind, much more subtle than that of simple cause and effect. But a great deal of unnecessary mystification has been made of it. Not that there is no mystery. But there is certainly no greater diificulty than baffles us when we attempt an account of other ultimate processes. An erudite account of a telephone system, for example, really explains nothing satisfactorily. In the end no one understands the relation of the voice to the wire: and that is the kind of mysterj' which surrounds the relation of mind to brain, and the only one which is at present quite beyond our horizon. For the cerebral function has to do with forms of energy and nothing more. Brain is simply the vehicle of words and of other things heard or seen or otherwise perceived — energy which travels hither and thither in the cortex, to reappear in conduct. And to appreciate this relation of human energy the physician might do worse than think out this analogy of the relation of life to the telephone. For the telephone and the phonograph do just what the brain does, though by different means. Especially when we learn that the telephone and the phono- graph have been combined—adding a function of retention to that of conduction—is there apt- ness in the simile between the electrical and the cerebral mechanism. Both instruments, for example, depend for their function upon some- thing which we may call tone—electrical in one case, nutritional in the other. If the cortex is not nourished it Avill not conduct properly ; but in health the nutritive processes maintain the lines in good order for the passage along them of the appropriate currents. Further, both instruments depend for their efficienc}^ upon correct and intact connections. Every little while interruptions occur because of wrong con- tacts, and the energy is diffused in wrong direc- tions. One cannot insist too often that all the positive signs of insanity are of this nature. We have been too slow to appreciate the lessons to be derived from maladies of the sensory and of the motor areas. These we have long ago