HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 85 This condition of fatty infiltration arises either from increase of intake or diminution in expendi- ture. It thus occurs in large eaters, chronic alcoholics, or in states where, as in some forms of antemia, there is diminished oxidation. Certain families, and women particularly in advanced middle life, are peculiarly prone to develop this condition. (12) Necrosis forms the final and most serious form of the degradation processes. Actual death of cardiac tissue may occur in several forms :— Simple softening, constituting cardiomalacia, occurs as the result of obstruction of a coronary vessel from a mechanical or non-septic cause. When a large branch is involved, and conse- quently a wide area of muscle rendered anaemic and subsequently necrotic, death may occur from rapidly established cardiac failure. In other cases the softened area gives way, and allows of rupture of the cardiac wall, with escape of blood into the pericardivmi. When the softened area is absorbed and replaced by scar tissue, a cardiac aneurysm may result. Ulceration or molecular necrosis constitutes a very important feature of malignant endocar- ditis. Here the microbial invasion, or the toxins resulting from their growth, produces extensive death of the structures forming the affected valve or mural endocardium. The necrotic tissue becomes entangled with blood and fibrin, increasing the production of the abundant vegetations so characteristic of this form of endocarditis; softens into minute gran- ules, which are washed away in the blood- stream ; or, being detached in fragments of varying size, is carried along and lodged in some distant vessel as emboli. Such accidents, however, are not limited to ulcerative endocar- ditis, as will be shown presently. Sometimes in septic endocarditis the valvular tissue yields, so producing an acute aneurysm of the valve. Occasionally necrotic foci are met with in the myocardium due to the penetration of organisms from the endocardium or their conveyance by means of the coronary vessels. An embolic plug, proceeding from vegetations of a malignant type, may lead by a process of rapid softening to dilatation of a coronary artery and the forma- tion of an acute aneurysm. Gummatous and caseous necrosis are only very exceptionally met with in the substance of the heart. (13) Tumours.—Primary growths of the heart are very rare, and little more than pathological curiosities. Sarcoma, fibroma, myxoma, and myoma have all been described. Some are said to be of congenital origin. Occasionally they assume a polypoid form, and extending into the cavities of the heart may produce cyanosis, and give rise to evidences of cardiac obstruction and muscular deficiency. Secondary growths are more frequent. They may either be of a carcinomatous or sarcomatous type. Melanotic sarcomata occur sometimes as numerous and extensive secondary deposits in the myocardium. Secondary nodules of growth may be found embedded in the walls of the heart or projecting from its inner and outer surfaces. Sometimes sarcomata extend directly to the pericardium and heart from the media- stinum. Cancer of the oesophagus very excep- tionally extends to the heart. (14) Parasites of the heai't are very rare in this country. The cysticercus form of the I'ania solium is occasionally met with, and is said to occur most frequently in the walls of the left ventricle. It varies in size from a pea to a marble. Hydatids, or the cystic form of Taenia echinococcus, may develop into cysts of consider- able size. When rupture occurs into the cardiac cavities embolism of the pulmonary or systemic vessels may result. These parasitic involvements of the heart are of but little clinical importance, and do not call for further consideration here. III. Effects op Cardiac Disease Many of the secondary results of cardiac dis- ease are chiefly of importance from their clinical significance, and are best dealt with from that standpoint. For the present purpose it will be suflicient to indicate only the leading patho- logical features of practical interest. Passive venous congestion is one of the most important of the consequences of cardiac failure. Its essential character is blood stagnation. Ci/anosis.—Every venously congested tissue tends to assume a deep red, livid, or even bluish tint. The condition arises from any cause im- peding due aeration of the blood. In many forms of congenital defect of the heart it is a specially conspicuous feature (morbus cseruleus). In more or less all cases of cardiac failure, when the right cavities become distended cyanosis appears, and deepens in intensity with the pro- gressing embarrassment of the pulmonary circu- lation. Cyanosis is especially marked in many cases of mitral stenosis. It is also a conspicu- ous feature in most cases of primary muscle failure. The cyanosed tissues vary in colour from a slight dusky red to a deep purple-black. The most intense degrees are usually best seen in peripheral parts of the circulation. Passive IlypercBmia of the Lyings.—Passive pulmonary congestion is sometimes associated with pulmonary oedema. Venous engorgement may, however, be an early result of cardiac disease and long maintained as almost the only serious effect. It is met with in its most marked form in mitral stenosis, in which the pulmonary tissues may be subjected to passive hyperasmia for years before the failure of the right ventricle allows establishment of a general venous engorgement. This pulmonary con- gestion is often in cases of mitral disease