318 HYSTERIA polydipsia are its usual attendants, and give the impression of diabetes. Polyuria is a serious and obstinate symptom, and is usually worst in men. At other times, instead of being ex- aggerated, the flow of urine is diminished, there is ischuria, sometimes simply oliguria, some- times almost total anuria; even when the suspension of the flow of urine is complete no ursemic symptoms appear. Vicarious pheno- mena, such as vomitings, sweating, and diarrhoea, are not uncommon, the secretions usually con- taining an appreciable quantity of acid and carbonate of ammonia. Disorders of Circulation and Trophic Disorders Hysterical patients often complain of different cardiac troubles, palpitations, and angina pectoris; these difler from organic attacks of angina, in that they are the result of excitement and fatigue, and last some time. Sometimes pain with cutaneous irritation is the dominant phenomenon (neuralgic form), sometimes vaso-motor pheno- mena are the most prominent, the face becoming pale, thin, and livid (vaso-motor form). Such an attack may terminate with definite cardiac phenomena, notably increased pulse-rate with tendency to syncope; in other cases it termi- nates in a burst of tears or laughter. Other vaso-motor symptoms are common, more esj)ecially flushing and pallor and extreme sensi- tiveness to cold. Dermographism, often met with in other nervous aff'ections, is well known in hysteria, and is easily demonstrated. If we draw a line along the skin with the point of a pencil an artificial nettle-rash speedily develops. This takes the form of a broad band, the centre of which appears pale and oedematous, with a zone of congestion on either side. This may frequently be demonsti'ated after a convulsive attack. Certain hysterical subjects are in a state of vaso- motor diathesia analogous to diathesia of con- tracture. At a more advanced stage the neuro- vascular disorders express themselves by local asphyxia of the extremities, erythromelalgia, and lastly hcBmorrhagia. Ecchymoses may develop under the skin, appearing equally on the ocular mucous membrane (tears of blood), nasal (epistaxis), auricular (otorrhagia), vesical (hi^ma- turia), uterine (metrorrhagia). To this list of vaso-motor disorders bloody sweats fall to be added. The ti'ophic troubles are no less interesting; among them are bullous eruptions of the pustular variety presenting sometimes the appearance of pemphigus, sometimes that of zonte or herpes. These have been described as hysterical eczema and herpes. Pigmentary stains sometimes de- velop after some mental emotion or crisis. But the most important cutaneous trophic disorders in hysteria are oedema and gangrene. Hysterical (edema is always unilateral and limited to one limb; it is very rarely general, simulating anasarca; it appears often in limbs already the seat of hysterical contraction. The skin affected by oedema is smooth and shining, the colour deep blue or violet, constituting the so-called blue oedema; the local temperature is lowered, the oedema is hard and does not yield to pressure. Blue oedema lasts a long time, generally several years. Hysterical gangre7ies may be symmetrical and attack the extremities ; they are most frequently in isolated plaques. Trophic disorders also attack the cutaneous appendages ; it is noticed that the hair falls out, and the teeth and nails become friable. The trophic troubles which attack the uterus deserve special attention. The hysterical xiterus consists in a temporary or permanent enlarge- ment of the organ, coming on suddenly and accompanied by considerable hypersesthesia of the skin. The colour of the skin may be normal, or red, or even violet. In certain cases con- siderable oedema is present, and gives the feeling of a tumour. In many instances of hysterical swellings of uterus or breast the patient is operated on under the impression that there is a malignant growth; the analogy with cancer is made complete when there is a gangrenous plaque on the surface of the solid oedematous area. This form of trophic disorder, like oedema, may last a long time. Trophic disorders not only attack the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissues, but even involve the muscles; muscular hysterical atrophy is more or less considerable, and is not accompanied in the majority of cases with any modifications of idio-muscular excita- bility. The electric contractility is generally diminished, but the reactions of degeneration do not often appear in this form of muscular atrophy. This atrophy sometimes develops alone, but more frequently follows hysterical hemiplegia or monoplegia. The whole limb may be affected or only a portion, and it requires a longer time to recover than a case of simple hysterical paralysis. The tendons are also subject to trophic troubles, fibro-tendinous retractions may continue after the paralysis and contractures have disappeared; they are sometimes accom- panied by the thickening of the soft tissues and necessitate surgical intervention. Disorders of General Nutrition General nutrition can be modified in hysteria in certain directions. It has long been believed that during the paroxysms of hysteria, nutrition is carried on under other than normal conditions. This is not the case : the character of the secre- tions proves that in hysteria the nutrition is normal. But there is some alteration after the attacks; an examination of the urine proves that nutritive changes then differ from those in a normal state. The alterations observed are commonly called the urinary formula of hysteria. If the urine collected in the twenty-