INFANT FEEDING 409 spoon, or mixed with tlie diluted milk (after it is cool), or with cream and water, three or four times a day: to an infant of twelve months, two tablespoonfuls of raw meat juice may be given in the twenty-four hours. Raw meat juice is made thus: scrape a quarter of a pound of lean raw beef into shreds in a cup; add to this two tablespoonfuls of cold water, and leave it, covered with a lid, to stand in a cool place for one hour; then strain it, and squeeze the juice out of the raw beef through muslin. Meat hroths are seldom to be recommended for healthy infants under the age of nine months, but in cases of troublesome vomiting or diarrhoea they may be given at the age of six months, or even earlier, as a temporary food. There are infants who seem unable to tolerate fat for a time, but who will take well a diet consisting chiefly of proteids; in such cases veal broth or chicken broth may be given with occasional feeds of whey, to which a little milk or cream may be added gradually, and in this way a re- turn to a proper proportion of fat may by degrees be accomplished. Mutton broth, or, still better, veal or chicken broth, are to be preferred to beef tea, even when this is made very weak, for the feeding of infants; and, in the writer's opinion, the concentrated meat preparations which are now so widely sold are better avoided in the feeding of healthy infants. In cases where only very small quantities of food can be retained, and the infant is becoming exhausted by severe vomiting, a few drops of some con- centrated meat preparation are often valuable as a temporary food. Diet from Twelve to Eighteen Months At the end of the first year an infant should have five or six meals in the twenty-four hours, the first being at 7 a.m., the last at 9 or 10 P.M. Cow's milk must still be the chief article of diet; but two or three feeds in the day may now consist of such starch-containing foods as finely crumbled stale bread soaked in milk or gravy ; or a sponge-cake or rusk may be given sopped in milk. Most infants at this age like crumbled bread soaked in the fat from fried bacon, and it is a useful addition to the diet at this age; a few months later, thin slices of bread soaked or fried in the fat may be given. The yolk of an egg lightly boiled, or a custard made with egg, should be given occasionally, and once a day a little meat broth may take the place of milk. There is no objection at this age to such foods as Chapman's entire wheat flour, or Frame food, or a little well-boiled porridge once a day, and a thin slice of bread and butter may be allowed at two of the meals. Diet from Eighteen Months to Two Years After the age of eighteen months most infants require only four feeds in the day. At least a pint of milk should be taken in the twenty- four hours, but, in addition to the food already allowed, other articles may be given. Frame food or well-boiled oatmeal, with a drink of milk, will make a suitable breakfast, and for one meal in the day there is no objection to a table- spoonful of well - cooked and finely - mashed potato, which may be mixed with milk, or with the red gravy from underdone meat. Un- doubtedly some infants can take potatoes with- out harm even earlier than this, but a very large number, not only of infants, but also of older children, suffer from disorder of digestion in consequence of being allowed potato too early or in too large quantity. It is a food which most children like, and which parents are only too ready to give, but it is quite unnecessary, and most children are far better without it until they are at least eighteen months old. There are few foods which are more often badly cooked than potatoes, and even when they are properly cooked they require to be finely mashed, not merely pressed through a fork, which leaves blocks of unmashed potato to worry the infant's digestion. A tablespoonful of meat, very finely minced, or torn into fine shreds, may be given occasion- ally with the potato; underdone roast beef or mutton or the white meat from chicken or turkey, or a little boiled sole or turbot well pounded are most suitable, and the quantity may be increased gradually. Milk puddings, rice, tapioca, sago, or semolina pi'operly cooked may be given with a little juice from cooked fresh fruit or from prunes; junket or blanc-mange will also serve to vary the diet. Bread and butter, rusks and sponge-cake, can be given more freely as the child approaches the end of the second year; but here a word of caution is necessary: whatever solid food is given, the child must be taught to eat slowly and masticate thoroughly; any one who has watched an infant cramming its food into its mouth, and bolting it with little or no attempt at mastication, can hardly wonder that indiges- tion is the result; nor is this fault limited to later infancy, older children are too often habitual food - bolters, and it may require patience and careful training to accustom them to take their food properly. Lastly, it may not be out of place to mention the value of cold water. Many parents and nurses seem to be afraid to give an infant cold water to drink, as if it had some baneful effect; and, as a consequence, one sees, especially in hot weather, infants crying fretfully, not from hunger, but from thirst, and they are soothed at once by a drink of cold water. Pure cold water in small quantities—not, of course, to take the place of food, but to relieve thirst—may be given at any period of infancy ; and nurses often need to be told that an infant who is ill, with a high temperature, should have the cold water that it craves.