47 HEMORRHAGE camiot be continued for more than one to two hours owing to the extreme pain they cause. Improvised Tourniqiiet.—Fold a handkerchief into a band 1 to 2i inches thick ; into the middle of this place a round stone or large round bullet, tie the two ends of the handkerchief loosely together after encircling the limb in such a way that the stone is placed over the main artery. Now in- sert a strong stick inside the encircling band of handkerchief and twist the stick until haemor- rhage ceases. This is a simple and effective emergency tourniquet. Elastic Constriction {Esmarch).—^An elastic band or cord forms the most useful tourniquet, as by its use the circulation in a limb can be entirely arrested. It is made to encircle the limb above the bleeding point. It should be applied with just sufficient firmness to control the haemorrhage. If too tightly applied motor paralysis and laceration of muscles maybe caused. An objection to this tourniquet is the fact that free capillary bleeding due to vaso-motor paralysis generally follows the removal of the constriction. The elastic band is greatly to be preferred to the cord-like or tubular constrictor. Among other forms of tourniquet mention need be made only of two, Petit's and Lister's. 3. Cold and Hot Water, — Cold water just above the freezing point (32° F.) temporarily checks bleeding, but is considerably inferior to hot water. It seems unquestionably to increase the shock, and for this reason is inadvisable in severe haemorrhage. Hot water which has been sterilised by boiling, and then allowed to cool down to 130° to 120° F., is an excellent styptic for considerable oozing from large surfaces or cavities, though it is useless when the haemor- rhage comes from a large artery. By the em- ployment of compresses soaked in water at 120° to 130° F. pressure and haemostasis are at the same time obtained. Hot water seems probably, iu great part by supplying heat, to diminish shock, and is therefore doubly indicated. 4. Styptics, as liquor ferri perchloridi, charpie, cobwebs, etc., were greatly used in olden days. Their employment is always inadvisable, and we mention them merely to condemn them as harmful and unscientific and dirty. 5. Torsion is a valuable and efiicient method of arresting haemorrhage in arteries which have been completely divided. The bleeding vessel is clamped with forceps, and a second forceps seizes the artery a short distance higher up at right angles to the vessel. The second pair of forceps holds securely the artery whilst a few twists of the first forceps in the direction of the long axis of the vessel suffice securely to obliterate the lumen of the artery. 6. Acupressure.—In this method a needle is passed under the vessel from the skin surface, which is twice pierced, and a figure-of-eight loop of silk is passed over the vessel around the two ends of the needle so as to exert compression. A more rapid method is to introduce the needle parallel with the artery, and then turning the needle through an angle of 90 degrees, pass it under the artery, which in this way suffers some degree of torsion as well as of compression. 7. Suturing.—Suture of a wound in an artery is not to be recommended owing to the tension in the vessel. It is a useful method, however, in wounds of veins. The suture should not penetrate the internal coat. 8. Forcipressure.—This is perhaps the most valuable method we possess, especially when used in conjunction with ligature of the larger vessels in the wound. Forcipressure is used in almost every surgical operation. Every bleeding point is clamped with artery forceps, which them- selves suffice to arrest the bleeding in the case of tiny vessels. Any vessel, however, of any size requires to be ligatured or twisted. In certain instances in which, for various reasons, it is impossible to ligature a bleeding point, the vessel may be clamped and the forceps may be allowed to remain from two to four days, when the bleeding point will, except in very large arteries, be safely sealed. 9. Cauterisation, applied by the employment of Paquelin's cautery, the electric cautery, or any hot iron, is in certain cases a valuable means of arresting htemorrhage, provided that the cautery be kept at a dull cherry-red heat. If used at a white heat the hemostatic effect is lost. A disadvantage in cauterisation is the necessary production of a slough. The method, however, is valuable in not a few cases in which a ligature cannot be applied. 10. Ligature.—{a) With inclusion of surround- ing tissues in certain cases in which, for any reason, e.g. the density of the tissues or the unhealthy condition of the vessel wall, the bleeding end of an artery cannot be clamped and ligated. A curved needle threaded with a ligature is then to be carried to some depth into the tissues around the bleeding vessel, which is sufficiently compressed by tying the ligature. (6) Ligature proper of the Vessel freed from surrounding Tissues.—This is the method gener- ally employed. Silk and chromic catgut are the materials which are generally to be recommended. Every substance employed as a ligature must be carefully sterilised. Silk can readily, by means of boiling for a few minutes, be rendered sterile, and this is its great advantage. Catgut, being made from the submucosa of the intestine of the sheep, is naturally most septic. It requires soaking for days in a strong antiseptic solution to ensure it being germ free. A great advantage of chromic catgut lies in the fact that it is absorbed in from one to three weeks. Thick catgut, however, is difficult to sterilise. In applying a ligature the mouth of the artery should be clamped with forceps and drawn out somewhat from its sheath, and the artery tied with a reef knot.