INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 492 disease never proceeds to mania; nor does his mania materially differ from that which never alternates with melancholia. We are forced to the conclusion then that, in the minds of all who become insane, there was a systematised melancholic or a systematised maniacal character m their subconsciousness or both. But we are probably safe in assuming that these subconscious arrangements characterise the brain of the human species, and that they would inevitably be re- vealed in any one who, having lost his acquired personality by disease, was reduced to a level of consciousness of an emotional form. (The same kind of things might be said of delusional types.) Over and above the impression which alternat- ing cases give iis of the systematic nature of cerebral arrangements on levels lower than that of sane personality, we must be struck by their periodicity. To watch a man through a folie circulaire is to have it suggested that the human brain works in cycles, that each cycle reveals several phases of consciousness in strong relief, almost as dissociated as in the insanity of alter- nating personality; and that cyclism must be briefly considered before we describe the types of the disease. Periodicity. — Nearly all brains that are active, and all that are constitutionally dis- ordered, manifest a more or less regular cyclism. Nor is such periodicity a new or a strange thing. It pervades the whole of organic life. For the primary factor in its occurrence we must go back to astronomy. The same rhythm by which the stars in their courses are set, and which brings our earth's surface near the sun at definite intervals, determines also the orbit of man's brains—sets it to a measure that rises and falls with a regularity that we scarcely notice except when disorder reveals it in excess. These immense, unconscious influences are quite beyond our reckoning, but we may surmise that our terrestrial nervous systems would be grievously upset if they were suddenly trans- ported into the rhythm which besets Mars or Venus, or still more that of Jupiter, as surely as many suffer agonies of discomfort on quitting the stillness of land to embark on a swelling- sea. And though the ship's mechanical motion has a very short waA^e-length compared with day and night, and these again as compared with summer and winter, yet are the latter further reaching in their effects. We must think of the diurnal variations of our atmosphere as a great pulse-wave of heat and of light which determines all the nutrition of our eai'th's surface, and which imposes a rhythm upon all organic activity, from the production of chlorophyll to the weaving of dreams. All over the world the heart muscle and the muscles of respiration arc contracting at a measure which, taken in relation to the weight of the individual, bears a constant ratio to the time of the earth's revolutions; and, over and above these regular ripples of activity, our massive movements also occur in diurnal wave- lengths. The next big rhythm is of a monthly type, both in men and in women. The lunar coincidence is the only factor which we can suggest as an explanation of that. At all events the fact is that, in nearly all women and in most men, cerebral changes occur in monthly periods. That rhythm, and the largest of all, the seasonal cycle, has an indirect influence on cerebration reflexly through the sexual and the reproductive functions. Under the influence of natural selection, organic changes in the female have become stereotyped in a rhythm which determines a rise of sex-consciousness in the spring, or, by an elaborate adjustment to the period of gestation, makes the birth of the off- spring likely to correspond with the most suit- able climatic conditions for its early life. From reproductive habits of a seasonal type the human race has of course departed. But the constitu- tional changes which are so evident in lower animals as of a seasonal nature, are the inherit- ance of our species also, and are organised throughout our whole nature. For the teleology of female changes applies also to the male. Animal life, in males, is largely a reaction to female states, and the organic energies of the two sexes usually wax and wane in harmony. From the strict type, the human race is obviously diverging as civilisation diminishes the direct influence of climate upon health. A woman's concealment of menstrual symptoms is but a crude sample of a general levelling process which polite society enjoins upon men and women. Even pregnancy and lactation are considered impolite, and, with the general sup- pression of these and other appearances of reproduction, periodic reactions in the race are being obliterated. Equableness is now indeed a feature of cerebral stability. But in incidental insanities and in abnormal mental reactions periodicity is conspicuous. Clouston and others regard these periodic exacerbations as an almost sure sign of a neuropathic diathesis. In other words, while all constitutions are subconsciously of a rhythmical organic habit, only weak brains fail to rise above and to conceal these alternative exaltations and depressions. Periodic Mania.—The recurrent variety of mania is the first form of periodic insanity, though melancholia may also manifest regular exacerbations. As was indicated, Recurrent Mania is most obvious in women, because of its relation to menstruation. But it occurs also in men. Sometimes it appears that the sane period signifies an access of energy and that the mania occurs on the subsidence of vitality. More often the facts of the case suggest that sanity suffers a periodic interruption occasioned by an access of vitality in low-level mechanisms. I have at present two cases which certainly offer a contrast. One of them, neurasthenic