507 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF pui'sued only tentatively, by groping in the dark, and is often, in the present state of our know- ledge, not possible at all, its consideration may be deferred. The Reduction of Function.—The function which in insanity is disordered and deteriorated is that of the supreme regions of the nervous system, by which conduct is actuated, by which the metabolism of all parts of the body, both absolutely and relatively to each other, is regu- lated, and which is accompanied by states and changes of consciousness. Of these functions the first alone is open to our direct interference. The others we can modify indirectly only. The need for that adjustment, by intelligent acts, of the organism to its surroundings, which is termed conduct, we can diminish almost ad libitum by furnishing a set of surroundings so completely preadjusted by artificial means to the needs of the organism, that voluntary ad- justment can be dispensed with. All the more intelligent phases of conduct, and, if necessary, all phases of conduct but the most rudimentary, can be supplied by artificial substitutes, and the highest nerve regions, thus relieved of their functions, can be left at rest to deal with the disturbing agent that is acting on them, to re- cuperate their deteriorated structure, untram- melled by the need of simultaneously carrying- on their function. In all cases of insanity, or of defect or dis- oi-der of mind or of conduct, which, though of the same nature as insanity, would not be called by so serious a title—in all cases of such disorder, whether incipient or established, whether mild or aggravated, the first need is the need of rest, of reduction or abolition of the demand upon the disoi'dered function. The recognition of this need has sometimes led to the pursuit of an exaggerated course, and has been interpreted to mean that every such patient, whatever the form or degree of his malady, must be deprived as completelj;' as possible of all opportunity of conduct, by being put to bed. This is as in- telligent a mode of treatment as to put to bed every patient with a broken bone, regardless of whether the bone broken is that of a leg or an arm or a finger. " He physic's use doth quite mistake, who physic takes for physic's sake." If those parts of the nervous system, which regulate the most complicated relations of the organism with its surroundings, are unequal to the demand upon them, and cannot regulate their relations efficiently, that is a reason for reducing or removing the demand upon them ; but if inferior portions are still capable of carry- ing on their functions with efficiency, they may still be permitted to do so, even though their superiors must be relieved. If the apparatus by which a man carries on his business is dis- ordered, it is right and necessary that he should be relieved from the opportunity of carrying on his business; but it is no more necessary that he should therefore be relieved from the oppor- tunity of walking about and amusing himself than that he should be relieved of the oppor- tunity of voluntarily emptying his bladder. If every insane person is to receive what is humor- ously termed "hospital treatment," that is to say, is to be kept in bed, the treatment is not consistent unless he is also relieved by a catheter and fed with a stomach-pump. The difficulty of suspending or reducing the call upon function in insanity lies in the differ- ences between insanity and other maladies. If a man suiTers from any bodily malady, he seeks, his conduct not being disordered, the advice of some competent authority, who gives the advice and leaves to the patient the responsibility of acting upon it. But in insanity it is conduct itself which is disordered, together with mind, and hence in the first place the patient very often does not know that he is suflPering from any malady; and in the second, if he do know, he is often unable, from the disorder to which his conduct is subject, to take the course with regard to it which even he himself may see to be expedient. For this reason it is often neces- sary in insanity to act without the consent, and even in opposition to the wishes, of the patient, and to deprive him forcibly of those oppor- tunities, which he will not willingly relinquish, of exercising his disordered faculties. It is often necessary, but it is far from being, as is sometimes supposed, always necessary. In the case of minors, they can be taken away from the school or the college or the course of studies in which the excessive demand upon the immature brain has caused the break-down. In the case of the adult, he can often be persuaded into, nay, will often himself suggest, a tempor- ary retirement from active employment, and a season of fallow, when he feels that his capacity is no longer equal to the demand upon it; and in mild degrees of the malady, and in these only, such measures are sufficient; but not only are such measures impracticable in the case of those who will not submit to them; they are also often inefficient even in the case of those who will. A man who knows himself unfit for business, who feels his incapacity to follow his pi'ofession, may voluntarily intern himself in an asylum, and go from bad to worse imtil it be- comes necessary that he shall be certified and compulsorily detained; and from the day that this is done he begins to improve and makes steady progress to recovery. It seems as if the mere responsibility for determining his own course of conduct were too heavy for him to bear; that he was weighed down by the uncertainty as to whether he was doing right; and that only when this responsibility was entirely removed by his compulsory seclusion from the ranks of those sui juris, only when he could feel that he was relieved of all responsibility for the regulation of his own conduct, was obtained that complete