491 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS patient's conduct is maniacal. Indeed there is no line of demarcation, for the delusions in these cases are often of a distressing character. Delusions aboimd in simple mania, but they are fleeting. Abiding delusions now referred to are the conceptions of a mind in chronic mania, such as express resentment for supposed injustice— that people have designs upon the patient's property or character, that certain people in their jealousy have conspired against him, that, while he is detained in the asylum, his enemies are wrecking his home and destroying his wife and children; and excitement and violence supervene. Cheonic Mania.—Chronic mania is also an arbitrarily determined variety. It is character- ised by continued persistence of subacute excite- ment. Some patients remain violently active on the sensori-motor level for several months; but not many constitutions can stand it. As a rule the acuteness of the activity wears off and ideation is, to a certain extent, restored. The patients then go about prone to restless and extravagant conduct, and to active and fleeting- ideas. In this condition we have, par excellence, the insane survival of the constructive mode of consciousness. Usually demented in some degree, the chronic maniac may spend his days in fashion- ing curious idols which embody for him im- portant attributes, in inventing and constructing hopelessly unnecessary appliances, or in design- ing and laboriously completing some handiwork which he is sure you will be glad to retain as a souvenir of his regard for you. The tone of feeling may be happy or it m&j be resentful— the hilarious and the angry types of acute mania as distinguished by G. M. Robertson. The imminence of dementia is usually obvious in such cases. Ephemeral Mania.—Mania Transitoria.— This variety is distinguished by its sudden onset and offset. It must be regarded as an epileptic equiA'alent. The patient suddenly suffers an abeyance of the functions of normal personality, but does not fall to the ground or lose conscious- ness in the ordinary sense. Instead of motor convulsions—the typical clonic spasms—the explosive activity is manifest in sensori-motor violence often destructive, such as occurs in ordinary acute mania. The duration of the attack is to be measured in hours. Then, after something like a post-convulsive coma, or sleep, the patient awakes to resume his normal activities. Recurrent Mania.—To the above varieties we may add that of recurrent mania—states of subacute excitement associated with a delusional point of view, which occur periodically both in men and in women, but especially in women, and generally related to menstrual functions. These are usually chronic cases, manifesting between times a fairly sane consciousness but often slightly demented, yet subject at the menstrual period to recurrences of acute excite- ment. Such periodicity, common in nearly all forms of insanity, betokens a preponderance of inherited proclivity. Nothing further is to be said about these cases except as regards pro- gnosis. Only when the patient has survived at least two periods without a maniacal relapse, may we assume that her com'alescence is assured. Alternating Insanity. — All intelligent persons alternate to some extent between phases of happiness and of unhappiness. These are modes of consciousness which respectively regard the environment as more or less at the disposal of oneself; or oneself as more or less at the mercy of the environment. Cheerfulness persists just so long as we stand up to life ; apprehension darkens into sadness in the minds of those who go down on their knees before it. And these two attitudes of mind severally distinguish melancholia and mania. In melancholia the mind is reduced to a primitive level of fugitive consciousness; in mania to one of foolish activities. But in many cases—and these are always interesting—the insanity reveals a systematic and more or less regularly periodic alternation between the depressed and the exalted phase. Such cases usually, indeed nearly always, have a spell of sanity in their cycle, and that is a strange and interesting fact. The patient recovers from melancholia perhaps and seems quite well for a period ; then, with a scarcely perceptible stage of depression, passes into mania for a period; then to melancholia again, and so on. And nothing so impresses upon one's mind the idea of the systems of sub- consciousness as one of these cases. Here is a man beneath the surface of whose mind is an organised system of fear, beset with gloomy feelings and with a varied assortment of terrors. Each time that he becomes reduced to this fugitive level, he feels the same kind of grief, entertains the same kind of delusions, and wears the same expressions and attitudes as before with very little variation. But he has also a subconscious phase which has reference to his surroundings from the point of view apparently that the world and all its delights are entirely at his disposal—a phase of consciousness that revels in primitive and puerile activities. And again, each time he reverts to this maniacal phase, he behaves very much the same as when last he was reduced to mania—makes love in the same silly phrases, entertains the same ridiculous projects, adorns himself similarl}-, walks with the same jaunty gait. And as we note these phases of consciousness, their distinc- tive gymnastic, and their coincident and charac- teristic trophic reactions, we cannot but assume that, in such a patient, subconscious mechanisms are deeply organised to represent them. More- over, the melancholia of such an one does not essentially differ from that of a patient whose