INHALATION-PNEUMONIA 441 Inhalation-Pneumonia.—Inflam- mation of the lungs (bi'oncho-pneumonia) follow- ing upon the aspiration into the larynx and bronchi of particles of food or drink, as in cases in which the sensitiveness or the structural integrity of the parts concerned in deglutition is affected; aspiration- or deglutition-pneumonia; ether-pneumonia. Inhalations.—Volatile drugs may be given as vapores or inhalations, and they may have an irritating effect on the bronchial mucous membrane {e.g. iodine, bromine, sulphur fumes, ammonia, etc.), or a stimulating action {e.g. creosote, cubebs oil, benzoin, etc.), or a soothing action {e.g. conium, hydrocyanic acid), or a disinfecting action {e.g. iodoform, carbolic acid, oil of juniper, etc.). See also Pharma- cology , Prescribing ; Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Treatment). Inhalers. »SVe An/esthesia. Inheritance. See Heredity; Haemo- philia ; Syphilis ; etc. Inhibition.—The power of restraining action, whether exercised voluntarily or re- flexly. See Insanity', Nature and Symptoms {Personality and, Subconsciousness); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Types of Episodic In- sanity, Defects of Inhibition); Physiognomy AND Expression {Expression of Brain Faculty, Inhibition); Physiology, Tissues {Nerves, In- hibitory) ; Physiology, Circulation {Intra- cardiac Nervous Mechanism). Inhumation.—Earth burial {q.v.). Iniencephaly.—The teratological type f in which through the backward bending of the head upon the dorsal region the nape of the neck loses its external position and is enclosed within the somewhat globular mass formed by the head and trunk (Gr. IvLov, nape of the neck, and eyKec^aAos, brain); the occiput is imperfectly formed, and there is usually spina bifida of considerable extent. See also Tera- tology {Malformations of the Sp>ine). IniodymuS.—Twins having a single body with two heads joined laterally and posteriorly. In ion.—The occiput or nape of the neck. Iniopag'US.—The variety of craniopagous twins {i.e. twins united by the heads) in which the union is by the occiputs. Injections. See Aneurysm (Treatment, Injection of Coagulants or Ergotin); Cholera, Epidemic {Treatment, Injection of Saline Fluids); Enemata ; Inpusa ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Hydrocele, Treatment, Injection of Irritating Liquids); Shock {Treatment, Saline Solution); Snake-Bites {Treatment, Antivenine). Injuries. See Medicine, Forensic; Un- consciousness ; and under the various organs and parts (Bladder, Ankle-Joint, etc. etc.). Innocent Tumours. See Tumours. Innominate Artery. See Aneurysm {of the Neck); Arteries, Ligature of {Inno- minate Artery). Innominate Bone. See Labour, Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities). Innsbruck. See Therapeutics, Health Eesorts {Austria). Inoculation, Preventive. See Immunity ; Plague ; Rabies ; Small-pox ; Therapeutics, Serum Therapy; Vaccina- tion; Yellow Fever. InoSCOpy. — Jousset's method of examining exudates for tubei'cle bacilli: first flbrin masses are allowed to form, and these fix the bacilli; tlien the til^rin is dissolved away (by means of a solution of glycerine, hydrochloric acid, and sodium fluoride), and the fluid is centrifuged ; the bacilli are left in the sediment. It is not, however, an absolutely certain method (Kcirmoczi and Jassniger). Inosite.— Muscle sugar (Or. h'os, a muscle). See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Chemistry of); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Sources of Principles of Food, Flesh); LTrine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars, Inosuria). Inquest. See Medicine, Forensic (Certif cation of Deaths, Procedure in Eng- land and Ireland). Inquisition.—An inquiry into the cir-