INFLAMMATION 420 vessels at the margin of the cornea dilate, etc., and give rise to an exudate. Leucocyte emigra- tion and the other typical signs of inflamma- tion are duly set up. After a time changes are seen in the corneal corpuscles surrounding the injured area. They are seen to swell and pro- liferate, producing new cells. Some of them attain a considerable size, producing large cell masses each with many nuclei. The exudate and leucocytosis subside gradually, the peri- pheral blood-vessels return to their normal con- dition, and the newly-formed corneal corpuscles proceed to form new fibres, and in a short time all signs of the corneal injury have disappeared. This rapid and perfect healing is usually well exemplified in corneal ulcers. Much the same changes occur in vascular tissues, but the blood-vessels generally take a more active part, especially in considerable inflammations. The lining endothelial cells are about the first struc- tures to be affected by the noxa, and it is only after they have been affected that escape of exudate and leucocyte emigration become pos- sible. Later they may, like the connective-tissue cells outside, become detached and proliferated. The exact time at which the degenerative stage ends and the regenerative begins does not permit of delimitation. A certain time must elapse before regeneration can commence (five to twenty-four hours or more), and it is rarely of any extent until after the third day, the time required being largely dependent upon the character and intensity of the irritant. In the same way it may be indeterminate in its end- ing, and result in various forms of hyperplasia. This is especially seen in chronic inflammations. The degenerative stage may be very slightly marked, while the regenerative is very pro- nounced. The interstitial fibrous tissue which is so abundantly formed in cirrhosis of the liver and kidney is a good instance in point. The new formation of fibrous tissue is here looked upon as inflammatory, since it is due to the continued action of some irritant. On the other hand, somewhat similar changes may arise entirely independently of inflammation. In granular contracted kidney' there is primarily a degeneration and atrophy of the renal epithe- lium, ending in its destruction over certain areas, and keeping step therewith there is a compensatory overgrowtli of the fibrous inter- stitial tissue. Inflammation has nothing to do with these changes, although they give a renal cirrhosis practically indistinguishable in its later stages from that produced by inflamma- tion. In the same way the regenerative pro- cesses of inflammation must be carefully distin- guished from those of repair. They are not synonymous, though it is by no means easy to distinguish between them when they are present together, or when tlie one follows at once upon the other. This does not necessitate the exclu- sion of the healing processes from inflammation. When the blood no longer carries injurious substances, or when the influence of the irritant is at an end, normal blood will circulate through the affected vessels, conveying healthy nourish- ment to their walls and the tissues around, and thus gradually restore them to their healthy state (the vis medicatrix naturae). The exudate is absorbed, the leucocytosis disappears, and in slight cases the tissues regain their normal structure and functions, but in more severe cases there is an actual loss of tissue which must be restored. There is a general tendency for lost tissue to be replaced by tissue after its own kind. When the new tissue is exactly like that which was lost the healing is perfect, but this rarely occurs in the highly specialised tissues. Bone and ganglion cells do not pro- liferate at all, and cartilage cells only very slightly. Striped muscle cells have consider- able powers of proliferation, except in the case of the heart, where there is none. Non-striped muscle cells proliferate comparatively freely, and so do neuroglia cells and glandular epithelial cells, while covering epithelial cells, ordinary connective-tissue cells, and endothelial cells, have great and rapid proliferative powers. Many losses of tissue are consequently replaced by an inferior form of tissue. In the heart, for example, a loss of substance is replaced by fibrous tissue. This occurs also largely throughout the internal organs. Connective tissues in the main replace lost structures in the central nervous system (through proliferation of the cells of the vascular sheaths and neuroglia cells), liver, and kidney. Gland cells may be reproduced in slight losses in glandular organs, but they are usually of a low functional value. In more severe losses the gap is made good by fibrous tissue. The remaining healthy gland tissue has great power of compensatory hypertrophy. Nerve trunks, on the other hand, are largely regenerated. If a part of a peripheral nerve be destroyed, fibrous tissue first proliferates and fills the gap, and then the axis cylinders of the central end send out prolongations which per- forate the fibrous tissues, and seeking out the distal end of the nerve in time re-establish con- nection with the peripheral nerve end organs. They acquire new medullary sheaths. In striped muscle fibrous tissue first fills the gap, and later new muscle fibres are formed which penetrate the fibrous scar more or less extensively, but rarely succeed in completely restoring the nuis- cular continuity. Unstriped muscle fibres, on the contrary, are rarely re-formed to any extent, though their power of proliferation is consider- able. New bone is often extensively produced, but always from the periosteum, endosteum, or perichondrium. Covering epithelium, whether squamous, mucous, or serous, is generally widely restored, and always from proliferation of the pre-existing epithelium, never by any other tissue. The subepithelial fibrous tissues arc