INSANITY, ITS NATURP] AND SYMPTOMS 496 other insanities are. Under appropriate treat- ment the delusion obviously loses hold upon the patient's mind ; prevented from expressing it, he lets it wait; induced to occupy himself with other things, he loses interest in it; for some time, perhaps, he still thinks it may have been true, then finally he regards it as folly. These episodic delusions are much more im- portant than progi'essive delusions, because of their frequency and because of their curability. The topics of them are innumerable, and we can only glance at the more common. Nor need we pause to remark the coincident effect upon the spirits which such delusions have—some- times depressing, sometimes exalting—nor their effect upon conduct, for these can be inferred with approximate accuracy. Delusions of bodily illness are very common, and the patient, though not the subject of melancholia, entertains the kind of beliefs which have been indicated as common in the visceral form of that disease. Delusions of seduction often occur in women at or about the climacteric, and in girls at or about puberty. Such cases may assume a medico-legal importance. Short of these, many aggrieved spinsters come to believe that they are the victims of some one who has wrecked their affections and broken a promise of marriage. There is generally some circum- stantial foundation for such delusions. So also with delusions of pregnancy, which are most apt to occur in unmarried women who have cause to be afraid that they are with child, and in married persons who are afraid that they are not. Of a similar kind are the delusions with which we are familiar in hysteria and which refer to a supposed loss of power. The patient believes, perhaps, that she cannot walk or can- not hear properly, that memory is failing, that she is entering on her dotage or becoming in- sane. These mistaken beliefs may occur inde- pendently of a hysterical condition or persist beyond it. All such delusions referring to bodily states are occasioned in part by peripheral or systematic stimuli, but the misinterpretation of them is determined by central disorders. Religious delusions are of another class. The patient believes, perhaps, that he has a special mission conferred upon him by the Almighty by immediate revelation, or that a universal crisis is at hand, or that God is personally displeased with some one of his paltry misdemeanours, and threatens some disproportionately dire revenge. Others may be described as social delusions in belief of which the patient supposes, for example, that he is on the verge of making a great fortune or of losing it, or that it transpires that he is after all of noble birth, or that he is an outcast, and that society is sending him to Coventry. Then there is that strange condition to which both men and women are liable who believe or pretend to believe that they have been attacked by robbers or burglars, or fired at, or poisoned. All these general delusions are to be attributed to central rather than to peri- pheral disorders. Monomania {Fixed and Progressive Delusions). —Dr. Macpherson describes paranoia in a special article (q.v.) and includes two clinical types. One of these is the systematised pro- gressive delusion (Magnan), characterised by absence of inherited or previous insanity, occurring, that is, in strong-minded persons with a stage of inception, one of persecution with hallucinations, one of ambition or grandeur, and one of dementia. The other is the paranoia of the degenerate—a form of delusional insanity which may simulate Magnan's type, but which lacks its constancy of feature and its tenacity. Some would have it that no more need be said about fixed and progressive delusions, but a host of accurate observers in this country recognise that the above two classes still exclude a great number (perhaps the majority) of fixed British delusions. The distinctive feature of the above two types, it will be noted, are, in the former, absence of recognisable predisposition and remarkable constancy and tenacity in the progress of the delusion; and in the latter an obvious diathesis and much variability in the progress of the delusion. Exceptions in both respects abound. There are, on the one hand, many apparently strong-minded persons, not obviously of the insane diathesis, who become the victims of a systematic and progressive delusion which does not even approach to Magnan's type in its course. Some of these are delusions of exaltation not preceded by a stage of systematic persecution. Others are cases of delusions of persecution who die of a ripe old age, perhaps softened and not so angry, but still showing no signs of passing into an exalted stage, or who obviously miss it out and become demented before they die. And, on the other hand, there are still a larger number of excep- tions—-cases with well-marked predisposition to insanity, whose delusions are very systematic and very tenacious. These cases, as was said, are all unimportant except from a scientific point of view. You cannot do much in the way of treatment for the King of all the Continents, and the longer he reigns the less likely is he to abdicate. We shall therefore merely indicate the nature of these insanities, and in so doing shall use the old and much- abused term, monomania. Monomania of Persecution.—A systematised and progressi ve delusion of persecution often arises after an attack of mania or of melancholia, or it may be occasioned by bodily disease or other cause of malnutrition, or it may develop gradually in a suspicious mind. Reverting to what has been hinted in considering Alternating Insanity and previously, we have to regard delusion of per- secution as an expi'ession of the fugitive