HYPNOTISM 297 that date, until his death, Voisin devoted him- self largely to the treatment of mental disorders by hypnotic suggestion; and, while he admitted that hypnotism could do nothing in somatic mental affections, such as general paralysis, cerebral softening, etc., stated that he had cured many cases of undoubted insanity, as well as other disorders more or less closely allied to it, e.g. melancholia with hallucinations, suicidal impulses, and delusions of persecution; acute and subacute mania; hysteria and epilepsy; morphinomania; dipsomania; obsessions, such as delire du toucher, agoraphobia, claustrophobia, etc. Voisin regarded hypnotic suggestion as extremely valuable in mental disorders, and often obtained good results with comparative facility once hypnosis had been induced, a fact which caused him to express his regret that all the insane were not hypnotisable. Dr. Repoud (Cantonnal Asylum of Marsens, Fribourg) claims to have cured cases of un- doubted insanity, while successful cases are also reported by Burckhardt (Prefargier Asylum), Liebeault, Bremaud (Brest), Velander (Ydnkop- ing, Sweden). In 1890, Drs. Percy Smith and A. T. Myers published an account of the hypnotic ti'eatment of twenty-one insane patients in Bethlem Hos- pital. Improvement followed in six instances, but the results appear to have been due more to increased personal attention than to hypnotic influence. Dr. George Robertson, in 1893, hypnotised and controlled the worst case of suicidal and homicidal mania there had been in Morningside for ten years. He concluded that, in insanity and allied disorders, hypnotism was of service in producing sleep, quietening the brain, and pre- venting outbursts of excitement from passing into mania ; also in dispelling fleeting delusional states and minor psychoses, as well as for purposes of management. In 1897, Dr. Woods, Hoxton House Asylum, reported good results in fifteen cases of insanity; the majority of these, however, apparently be- longed to minor forms of melancholia. Personal Results.—With veiy few exceptions my results in cases of undoubted insanity have been disappointing. In many instances I have failed to induce hypnosis, while in others, although I was able to produce sleep and relieve the pain of organic maladies, the suggestions were entirely without effect upon the insane ideas. There were, however, some favourable exceptions, e.g. a case of acute mania with attempted suicide, followed by mutism, insomnia, violence, and persistent refusal of food. The patient, who had been certified, was in an asylum, and all feeding was forcible. After the first seance forced feeding was never necessary, and the patient made a complete recovery. I have also obtained good results in subacute puerperal mania with suicidal impulses, and in cases of melancholia of a more or less hysterical type. In some of these cases the patients had previously been certified. Voisin's claim to have been the first to employ hypnotism in the treatment of the insane is untenable. In 1852, Esdaile hypnotised thirty- seven insane patients at the Calcutta Asylum, but admitted that the therapeutic results were disappointing. About the same date, Dr. Keen (Berhampore Asylum, India) found hypnotism of much service in procuring quiet and main- taining discipline, thus forestalling the observa- tions of Dr. Robertson. Braid and EUiotson also reported cases of insanity cured by hypnotism. Dipsomania.—Hypnotism yields excellent re- sults in dipsomania. Am.ongst my successful cases, of both sexes, the duration of the disease had varied from five to seventeen years; some had had several attacks of delirium tremens and epilepsy, and in most there was a family history of alcoholism. In many instances repeated and prolonged treatment in retreats had failed, while the " gold cure " had been equally unsuccessful. Some of the earlier cases have now remained over ten years without relapse. Forel claims to have obtained excellent and durable results in dipsomania, and successful cases are also reported by Voisin, Ladame, Tatzel, Hirt, Neilson, de Jong, Liebeault, Bern- heim, van Eeden, van Renterghem, Wettei'strand, Schrenck-Notzing, Krafft-Ebing, Hamilton Os- good, Cruise, Tuckey, Woods, etc. Much depends, however, upon the patient's mental attitude and the operator's management of the case. The following are the more im- portant points:— 1. The patient must be willing to be cured. Some, amongst my earlier failures, afterwards confessed that they had been forced to come by their relatives, but never wished to be cured, and had persistently opposed my suggestions. 2. If possible all stimulants ought to be stopped the moment treatment begins. When a patient is taking a bottle or more of spirits a day, this cannot be done without risk of delirium tremens. In such cases, the quantity taken should be rapidly diminished, and, unless the patient is deeply hypnotised, the insomnia, sickness, etc., which are apt to arise should be combated by drugs. 3. It is important, especially at the com- mencement of the treatment, that the patient should not be left alone. He should always have some trustworthy person near him, to whom he can confide his temptations, and who will aid him in overcoming them. 4. The operator must be persevering and not easily discouraged ; patients, who ultimately do well, sometimes relapse more than once during treatment. 5. Even when the craving disappears quickly, the patient ought to be hypnotised regularly