HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 76 disease are of microbial origin or dependent on morbid activity of the cells of the body; suffice it to say that rheumatism has a particular affinity for the serous membranes of the heart, and the majority of cases of diseased pericardium and endocardium are due to its influence. But rheumatism also very clearly exerts its influence on the muscular substance of the heart, and this seems to be particularly the case in young subjects. In not a few cases of acute rheumatism without endocarditis, or any exceptional degree of temperature, cardiac dilatation ensues ap- parently from the direct paralysing and degene- rative influence of the rheumatic poison on the protoplasm of the muscle cells. In many of the so-called constitutional dis- eases cardiac affections arise, but in many in- stances it is impossible to distinguish between those dependent on impaired nutrition and those arising from toxic influence. First amongst the pathogenic chemical agents of extrinsic origin must be placed alcohol. This body, especially in the form of beei", is account- able for a large mmiber of cases of muscle failure occurring in adult labourers. The most character- istic cases of " alcoholic heart" are certainly met with in excessive consmners of malt liquors, or those who take their drinks " mixed," and where enormous quantities of drink are imbibed in the day while engaging in work of a heavy, often irregular and straining character. Some have thotight that local differences in the manufacture of malt liquors may account for the seeming- greater frequency with which alcoholic hearts are met with in some districts. Certainly in Manchester "alcoholic hearts" formed a very large jaroportion of the cases of primary muscle failure, and occurred particularly amongst market porters, barmen, brewers' drajmien, cabmen, and labourers. The arsenical contamina- tion of beer which prevailed extensively in Manchester and neighljourhood was, no doubt in part, answerable for many of these cases of muscle failure. " Alcoholic heart " is not com- monly met with in women, who are less exposed to strain. It is interesting to note that athletes have long realised that beer was bad for their "wind." ' Reference may here be made to the cardiac depressant action of certain animal and vegetable poisons and medicinal substances, such as thyroid pi'eparations and numerous other well-known drugs. Suprarenal extract, however, leads to the development of high arterial tension. The deranging influence of tobacco is too widely ex- perienced to need more than mentioning. (3) Thermal.—Little need be said respecting the influence of heat and cold, light and dark- ness, on cardiac action and cardio-vascular stinicture. Exjjosure to extremes either of heat or cold i>roduces a paralysing influence on muscle. Heat syncope and cardiac collapse from sunstroke are well-recognised clinical con- ditions. Pyrexia exerts a distinctly deleterious influence on cardiac muscle. The effects of cold in raising vascular tension must also be borne in mind. (4) Biological.—Parasitic agents are very influential in establishing certain well-defined cardio-vascvilar lesions. The most striking ex- ample is " malignant,' or, as it is now fi'equently termed, " infectious " endocarditis. Some patho- logists look upon all rheumatic lesions of the endocardium as due to microbial infection. In- flammatory affections of the heart, particularly those of the pericardium and endocardium, occasionally occur in the course of scarlet fever, diphtheria, and sometimes in some of the other infectious diseases. Most if not all of the septic diseases seem capable of pi-oducing secondary affections of the heart. The embryos of certain of the worms occasion- ally attack the heart. The cystic form of Taenia echinococcus may produce " hydatids " of considerable dimensions. 2. Predisposing Ixfluexces.—These may be considered according to whether they act through (rt) the inherited or acquired textural characters of the individual, or (/*) by modification of tlie environment. (1) Heredity.—Certain families manifest a distinct tendency to early degenerative pro- cesses in their vessels, and to a premature cardiac deterioration. It is not necessary to discuss to what extent this is due to direct transmission. In some cases community of work and environment is a more reasonable and likely explanation. Family proneness to gout and rheumatism, and other conditions peculiarly liable to exert a baneful influence on the heart, must not be lost sight of. Cardiac failure from " vascular " causes oftentimes seems to " run " in families. As far as can be ascertained, race exerts comparatively little direct determining influence. (2) Sex.—This is a factor of considerable im- portance, although the precise way in which the influence may be exerted is in many instances far from clear. The influence of occupation is closely allied with that of sex. Aortic disease is thus most frequently met with in men. In- efficiency of the aortic valves when occurring in females is almost always due to organic changes following rheumatic endocarditis or consequent on microbial infection. Mitral stenosis is nuich more frequently met with in women than men. Some have thought that this arises from a greater liability to rheumatism and chorea in the female. Primary muscle failure is generally met with in men. " Alcoholic heart" is rare in women. Dilatation from muscle failure and higli arterial tension is, however, not unusual in women after the climacteric. Dilatation of the lieart from clu-onic bronchitis and emphy- sema would seem to be equally common in the two sexes. Tlie importance of chlorosis in young