214 HERPES primary division ; and a third group near the mid-Hne marking the termination of the anterior primary branch. There is no uniformity as to the order in which these maxima of intensity are affected, but as a rule the iirst patch to evolve is that nearest the nerve centre. The eruption is always most intense at these spots, and the intervals between them may or may not be filled up according to the severity of the attack. The right side is, curiously enough, much more commonly affected than the left. The corresponding lymphatic glands are almost always enlarged and tender, and may be so affected before the appearance of the eruption. The eruption may continue to appear in crops extending over a week, or even longer, or it ma}^ be fully developed in two days; in the former case it appears early in the disease, and its evolution is accompanied by persistent pyrexia and malaise ; in the latter it usually denotes the termination of the pyrexial period, and may be regarded as a " critical" phenomenon. The initial lesions are erythematous patches, upon which papules and small vesicles rapidly form, which by coalescence may form compara- tively large blebs. Some difficulty in diagnosis may occasionally be caused by the eruption being abortive, and appearing only as ill- developed grouped papulo-vesicles. The vesicles are, at first, filled with clear fluid, which gradually becomes turbid, and dries up to form small scabs, which usually separate in about ten days. In more severe cases the vesicles, probably from extraneous causes, contain purulent or blood-stained fliiid, often become gangrenous, and give rise to ulcers of various depths, which only heal with considerable scarring. Herpes zoster may occiu' in the course of any cutaneous nerve, and is designated by various names according to the part affected, e.g. hei'pes ophthalmicus, cruralis, etc. It is especially frequent over the distribution of the intercostal, lumbar, and ophthalmic divisions of the fifth nerve, and is very rarely found below the knee. Herpes is comparatively frequent over the areas of distribution of the sciatic, anterior crural, ilio-inguinal, musculo-spiral, occipital, and superficial cervical nerves. Herpes of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve is especially important, as the subsecjuent scarring is generally deep and correspondingly dis- figuring, and as the cornea is apt to be attacked, a complication which is most frequent in cases wliere tiie nasal brandies of the nerve are att'ected. Zoster of the superior and inferior maxillary nerves is generally accompanied by lesions on the soft and hard palate, and on the tongue. Tiierc are several very striking and important ciiaracteristics of attacks of zoster : the eruption i is very seldom bilateral—tliougli it may i occasionally overlap the middle line — and it is never symmetrical; one attack almost invariably protects against a second, and in those cases in which second attacks do occur the eruption never occurs over the site of the former lesion. DistrUmtion. — Herpes zoster follows the distribution of the fibres of the posterior i-oot ganglia, and not the course of peripheral nerves. This important fact was first pointed out by Baerensprung, and has recently been further extensively investigated by Head, who has used the distribution of the eruption as a means of mapping out the areas of skin supplied by the different posterior nerve roots. Pathology.—Each vesicle consists of a small unilocular cavity containing fluid and altered epithelial cells with leucocytes; the papilljE of the skin form its floor. Several vesicles may coalesce to form multilocular blebs. Protozoa- like bodies described by Pfeiffer as pathogenic are probably only altered epithelial cells. The underlying papillse are deeply congested and infiltrated with leucocytes. The peripheral cutaneous nerves show swelling of the neuri- lemma, degeneration of the medulla and monili- form swelling of the axis-cylinder. Ten days after the onset of eruption the larger branches show marked degenerative changes (Campbell and Head). Changes have now been definitely established occurring in the ganglia of the posterior nerve roots which extend for some distance up the posterior columns of the cord ; the most common conditions found are haemor- rhages and inflammatory exTidation, and secondary to these sclerosis, while degenerative changes have been traced from the posterior root ganglia through the posterior roots to the peripheral sensory nerves. In herpes ophthal- micus inflammatory changes are present in the Gasserian ganglion. Comjj/icatiou't and Seqvekf.—The amoimt of scarring varies considerably ; in some cases there is scarcely any, and in others it is very deep, the preceding ulceration being sometimes very persistent. Pain in the majority of cases disappears with the rash ; in some, it persists for a considerable time after, and occasionally lasts for months or even years. This after-pain is a very trouble- some symptom, which is of very common occurrence in elderly people, and in those cases where the disease has been followed by deep scarring. The ocular comp/icatio7is of herpes of the ophthalmic division of the fifth are not in- frequently serious, the most common being ulceration of the conjunctiva and cornea ; iritis and panophthalmitis occasionally occur, and in very rare instances paralysis of orbital or ocular muscles iiavo been met with. Other motor paralyses are occasionally ob- served. Thus paralysis of the hand has been