HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE, THE 307 or less complete, and due to a supranuclear lesion, may be met with. The diagnosis of the situation of the lesion can often be arrived at by a consideration of the associated paralyses. The treatment must be directed towards the primary disease. HypOgnathUS.—A type of double monster in which a more or less defective parasitic foetus is attached to the lower jaw of the antosite. HypolepsiS. — Monomania (Gr. vtto, under, and Aryi/zts, taking hold of). HypoleUCOCytOSiS. — Diminution in the number of leucocytes, as in typhoid fever; leucopenia. Hypomania..—^A subacute form of mania, characterised by egotism, intolerance of correction, restlessness, and perversion of sexual instincts. Hypometropia.—Myopia. HypophOSphiteS. See also Calcium ; Pharmacology ; Sodium ; etc. The hypo- phosphites of calcium and sodium (official), and also those of potassium, iron, and ammonia, are much used as general and nerve tonics in debility, incipient phthisis, convalescence from acute illness, etc. They are contained in a large number of proprietary preparations made up with syrup, glycerine, or malt, and containing in addition strychnine, quinine, formates, or other tonic drugs. Calcium hypophosphite has been recommended for checking the night-sweats of phthisis, and also for acne. The dose of the hypophosphites is from 3 to 10 grains. Hypophysis Cerebri.—The pituitary body. See Pituitary Body. Fiypopiasia. — Defective formation or arrested development of a tissue or part. IHypopyon.—The presence of pus in the anterior chamber of the eye. See Iris and Ciliary Bodies (Inflammatory Conditions, Iritis); see also Choroid, Diseases of {Suppurative Choroiditis); Cornea (Inflammation, Ulcerative Keratitis); Cornea (Types of Corneal Ulcera- tion). Hypospad ias.—Defective development of the urethra on its inferior aspect, so that the canal ends on the lower surface of the penis or in the perineum. See Hermaphroditism (Male Pseudo-Hermaphroditism); Scrotum and Tes- ticle, Diseases of the (Abnormalities, Cleft Scrotum); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Impotence, Causes); Urethra, Diseases of (Abnormalities); Uterus, Malformations of the (Arrest of Development). ^ Hypostasis. — The gravitation of the blood to the most dependent parts of the body, e.g. after death; venous hyperfemia from the action of gravity; post-mortem lividity. See Death, Signs of ; Lungs, Vascular Disorders OF (Passive Congestion, Hypostatic); Medicine, Forensic (Post-mortem Examinations, External Appearances). HypostOmuS.—The teratological type in which a small vertical slit represents the mouth, e.g. in cases of agnathus or absence of the lower jaw. Hypothenar Eminence.— The eminence or projection on the palm of the hand on the ulnar side, as opposed to the thenar eminence on the radial side. HypOtliermia. — A low temperature, e.g. in the remissions of some fevers (typhoid), or after hsemorrhage, or during convalescence. HypO-thyroidea.—Defective action of the thyroid gland and the effects resulting from it. See Thyroid Gland, Medical (Alyxoedema). Hypotonia or Hypotonus. See Spinal Cord, Medical (General Symptomatology, Motor Symptoms, Hypotonia) ; Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomatology, Muscular Tonus); Tendon- Jerks (Indications from. Diminished Muscular Tonus). HypOXanthin. — Oxypurin, a leuco- maine (C^H^N^O) found normally in various tissues (spleen, brain, thymus, marrow, adrenal gland, etc.), and occasionally in blood and urine and in the liver tissue. See Liver, Physiology OF (Regulation of Siipply of Proteids); Physi- ology, Excretion (Urine, Nitrogenous Sub- stances) ; Uric Acid. HypsonOSUS.—A morbid condition affecting mountain climbers, characterised by sickness, headache, and distension of the super- ficial veins. Hypsophobia.—Morbid fear of being on heights. Hysteralg^ia.—Pain in the uterus. Hysterectomy.—The operation for the removal of the uterus (in whole, panhyster- ectomy, or in part, sub-total hysterectomy) either by the abdominal or the vaginal route, for various morbid states, but chiefly for fibroids and cancer. See Uterus, Malignant Tumours OF (Treatment, Hysterectomy); see also Labour, Injuries to Generative Organs (Pupifiire of Uterus, Treatment); Menstruation and its Disorders (Amenorrhoea after Hysterectomy); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor (Prolapsus Uteri. Treatment); Pregnancy, Pathology, Affections of Generative Organs (Cancer of Uterus, Treatment).