HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 111 present, which the dropsy of the thrombosis only complicates. The patient's complaining of pain at the seat of thrombosis will often lead to the discovery of the accident, and when a cardiac sufferer complains of pain in a limb it is always necessary that the vessels—both veins and arteries—should receive careful physical examination for vascular obstruction. A more or less elongated mass or cord may easily be felt in some cases, while in others the seat of the obstruction has to be inferred from local tender- ness and the disposition of the dropsy. The Embolic Process The plugging of peripheral vessels in the various organs by particles, usually of fibrin, from the cardiac cavities or from diseased sur- faces of valves, plays an exceedingly important part in the symptomatology of cardiac disease. The accident, as it may be called, of embolism probably always implies either stasis of blood in one or other of the cavities of the heart, as a result of which, fibrin is apt to be deposited from the blood in some of the recesses of the cardiac wall, or the exposure of some abnormal and devitalised endocardial surface, usually of the valves, to the blood-current, whereby fibrin is deposited, as happens in the case of rheumatic and septic endocarditis. Cerebral embolism is a common accident in mitral stenosis, and the source of the plug is usually a tiny clot detached from a recess in the wall of the left auricle. But cerebral embolism may occur also in cases of simple dilatation of the heart, the source being either the left ventricle or auricle, in either case presumably in a state of " systole catalectic," so-called " asystole." The process is perhaps most common in the lungs, in which case the source of the peccant particle is the recesses of one or other of the right chambers. The symptoms of embolism will be considered according to the organ affected. Pulmonary Embolism.—The so-called '■^hoimor- rhagic infarct" described under pathology is the lesion here,—" pulmonary apoplexy " is the old- fashioned name for the condition, an inappro- priate one, however, as regards its etymology. The great symptom of the condition is hmno- ptysis. The blood is generally pure, dark, and non-frothy, and the quantity varies much, but it never becomes so great as to necessitate the mere loss of blood being taken into consideration. With or preceding by a short interval the appearance of hasmoptysis, there is often some febrile disturbance, which, however, is usually neither great nor prolonged. On physical ex- amination it is the rule to find no marked dul- ness over the site of infarction, the patch being usually small and isolated, but when there are several infarcts lying close together, and especi- ally when inflammatory consolidation takes place around infarction, a considerable area of dulness may be produced. The most common aus- cultatory sign is the development of small bubbling sounds, the bubbles formed being, however, of a larger size than those that occasion the " vesicular bubbling " of Skoda or true crepi- tation, such as is heard in the incipient stage of pneumonia and in oedema of the lung substance. Bronchial breathing is exceptional, the breath- sound being usually "indeterminate" (Skoda) or essentially vesicular. Bronchial breathing implies, of course, that a large mass of consoli- dation has been produced, which is not often the case, and that the large bronchial tubes of the consolidated part are free for the passage down- wards of the glottic breath-sound—a condition, one would think, often prevented by the presence of blood in them. The physical signs in typical cases are developed over a comparatively small area corresponding to the localisation of the infarct—a subject considered under pathology. When a large area, say the greater part of a lobe, is rendered dull, the presumption is that ordinary inflammatory consolidation has super- vened around the infarct or infarcts, and the temperature is then apt to be maintained at a - high elevation. When a large embolism occurs or several small ones occur in close proximity, pleuritic effusion is apt to result and mask the primary condition, although haemoptysis will usually be present to indicate that the embolic process is in operation. Cerebral Embolism.—A very important part in the symptomatology of cardiac disease is played by the embolic process involving the brain. Among the vessels, in which the embolus may be arrested, the middle cerebral artery of the left side stands pre-eminent. Its occlusion, gives rise to right hemiplegia and usually more or less aphasia, the latter being sometimes very complete. Differences among cases depend essentially on the exact site of the lesion, and consequently the branches whose circulation is interrupted by the embolus. The " simple" mode of onset of hemiplegia, in which there is no loss of consciousness, is the rule, though occasionally the "epileptiform" and "apoplecti- form " modes of onset are witnessed. The attack is remarkable among " strokes " in general, be- cause of its frequent occurrence in the young; so much, indeed, is this the case that a " stroke " in a young person, especially of the female sex, at once suggests heart disease, and specially valve disease. Quite a large proportion of young female patients suffering from mitral stenosis become the subjects of such attacks of hemiplegia. The form of hemiplegia is not always the same, and the left side—the embolus being lodged in the right cerebral hemisphere— may be the affected one, as in a young girl lately under the writer's care. Moreover, owing to unusual vessels becoming plugged, instead of a definite hemiplegia resulting, quite irregular and anomalous manifestations of locally arrested cerebral circulation may arise, and these may