INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 500 central phases remains; that the patient is trying to behave sanely though the resistance in the ideo-motor and Rolandic mechanisms offers an insuperable barrier to the transmission of his dictates. We cannot say. But there are conditions in which inhibition is primarily impaired without any great interference with the rest of the mind such as we can appreciate. The best cases in point are those characterised by Ahoidia, which is a simple anergia not usually so gross as to demand asylum treat- ment. The patient in the first instance simply fails to do the things which he has intended to do. That phase is common in a great many minor disorders, notably in those of alcoholic origin. But a deeper reduction of volition occurs in true Aboulia, when the patient suffers a loss of energy sufficient even for automatic acts and habits. And it is at the point of change from one kind of activity to another that the failure occurs. The affection is one which does not allow of interruption of the actual mode of consciousness of the moment. In the morning, when the patient ought to get up, he just stays on in bed ; at bedtime he does not undress ; he sits at table and cannot begin to eat; out for a walk he cannot turn to come home; he will sit for hours and not offer a remark. And all the time the mind is not pro- foundly affected. The patient is aware of his disability, and can, when once he starts, con- verse freely about it. But the risk is that, if rigorous treatment is not adopted — enforced regularity of hours, enforced hygiene, and enforced distraction from introspectiveness—the patient will become further disabled. Aboulia may go on to stupor—a systematic progress of the disease outwards and downwards towards the muscles. Or it may take a more central course and develop into Folie de doute or Swithering Insanity. Then the patient is liable at any moment, however, inopportune, to stop and wonder whether he ought to go on. That is, his intelligence is becoming involved, and a vicious habit is established in which the patient fails to do things, wonders why, wonders how she can, wonders whether she should, and still does not do them. This condition is, in a sense, a confusional insanity ; but it is a con- fusion of impulses rather than of ideas. As in ideational confusion, the conspicuous feature is an excess of secondary suggestions. Its symbol should be a mark of interrogation. The patient can take nothing for granted, but questions the propriety or the advisability or the cause or the result of everything she is about to say or to do. As was said, the primary fact in such cases is tlie loss of common sense. A distinctive feature of this insane indecision is to be found in the subjects to which it refers. It is not about important alBxirs—not about proposals of marriage, or a declaration of war, the offer of an appointment, or the investment of a fortune. In swithering insanity the patient hesitates as to which stocking to put on first, which garter, what boots to wear, which hat, whether to put the left or the right foot on the first of a flight of steps, whether to step on the lines of a pavement or to avoid them, and as to a hundred other things which likely do not matter a straw. In other words, the patient is beset by trivial questions which should have remained entirely beneath her notice. All the petty things of life should occur subconsciously, but in swithering insanity the trifles of sub- consciousness confront the patient at every step. The condition is not without resemblance to Abasia Astasia. Let the physician try for a quarter of an hour during a walk to attend entirely to the art of walking—how one leg is to pass the other, exactly where each foot should fall, etc.—and he will understand how subversive of sanity it is to fetch up from sub- consciousness the multitude of things that ought to lie there. Or again, in impairments of inhibition, the mode of consciousness may be the obverse of Folie de doute, and the patient manifest an insane Rhythmism or automatism. Riiythmism rarely occurs conspicuously except as a con- comitant of other and grave disorders. Its characteristic is that the brain continues to repeat a given movement indefinitely. Many patients, for example, go on repeating a single word or phrase indefinitely (verbigeration) with- out content or significance ; or, if you ask them several questions, will give the same answer to them all. Or Rhythmism may manifest itself in what in the sane would be called habit- spasms, which have so interesting a relation with chorea. Stereotyped recurrent grimaces may occur, or the patient may go through a gesture again and again. More commonly, insane poses and attitudes and gaits insist upon constant reiteration, of which the most common, and a very unpleasant one, is a sway- ing motion of the trunk and head backwards and forwards. Kahlbaum described as an entity a series of symptoms to which he gave the name Katatonia, in which rhythmism and cataleptoid signs were prominent, but the con- dition is not now regarded as a specific or systematic aff'ection. (Rhythmism, the re- petitive mode of activity, characterises many of the insane. Insanity tends to habit. Note also the relationship of resistiveness—a revul- sion against interference with the attitude or occupation of the moment, and of aboulia—an inability to stop doing one thing and to pro- ceed to the next. Rhythmism also characterises obsessions.) Insane Impulsiveness.—The affections pre- viously described are essentially significant of a reduction of inhibition—a negative lesion. In others, however, though inhibition is often impaired, we have to suppose some positive