544 INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF Muscular cramps in the feet and legs are mostly met with in acute cases where the small intestine is affected. The use of an enema I have frequently found to be a great help. If a small one only can be retained (say, less than one quart), this sign is in favour of the obstruction being in the large intestine. An examination of the patient under chloro- form may discover a tumour in one or other part of the abdomen. Distended intestinal coils felt per rectum point to obstruction in the small intestine. As aids to diagnosis the passage of the long- tube or a sound into the rectum are useless, and the introduction of a hand into the rectum is likely to convey very little information, and is a dangerous operation. 3. What is the nature of the ohstruction ? If the case is one of acute obstruction it is probably due to acute intussusception or volvu- lus, to strangulation by a band or a ring, or to an internal hernia or gall-stone. Intussusception.—Intussusception is the sim- plest form for diagnosis. It occurs most com- monly in early youth. The attack is often preceded by a free intestinal evacuation. There is sudden pain—continuous at first, becoming, later, more intermittent. There is vomiting, which is not so severe or so persistent as in other acute cases; constipation, which is not likely to be complete, as it is usual to have small loose motions with muco-sanguinolent dis- charge and marked rectal tenesmus. The abdo- men is seldom much swollen ; indeed, it may be retracted, as relief is obtained by the passage of small quantities of gas per anum. Examination of the abdomen may discover at the ileo-csecal junction, or in the course of the colon, a rounded sausage-shaped tumour, which hardens at times, or there may be merely marked local tender- ness. Per rectum, it may be possible to feel the end of the intussusceptvmi, like a uterine cervix, or, if the tumour is too high for this, bimanual examination with one hand on the abdomen and a finger in the rectum may make it plain. A blood-stain on the examining finger may also give a clue. The swelling in the ileo- CcEcal region may be mistaken for the swelling- due to an abscess in connection with the appen- dix ; but the history of the onset, the absence of intestinal symptoms characteristic of intus- susception, the febrile course, and the tender, indefinite lump, as compared with the rounded and more readily palpable swelling of intussuscep- tion, serve as distinguishing features. In young- children the diagnosis is occasionally very difh- cult. The typical symptoms are masked by what I can only describe as apathy. Except for vomiting there are no definite abdominal symptoms. The patients lie in any position in which they may be placed ; with sunken features, looking very ill and apparently anaesthetised ; they tolerate examination abdominally and rectally without complaint. In consequence of the relaxed and anaesthetic condition of the abdominal wall, the tumour is readily dis- covered. Volvulus.—Volvulus occurs in elderly adults with a history of long-standing- constipation. The pain and tenderness are most marked in the left iliac region, and there a vague swelling may be felt. Vomiting is not so frequent as in other forms of acute obstruction, probably because older persons are not so frequently sick as young ones are. There is absolute constipa- tion, and frequently rectal tenesmus, but no tumour can be felt on rectal examination, and there is no bloody or mucous discharge. Ab- dominal distension appears early and rapidly increases. Later it is frequently most marked in the epigastrium. Strangulation by hands, diverticula, rings, and internal hernia are often sudden in their onset, and pi'oduce very acute symptoms. A history of previous peritonitis suggests strangulation by a band or adhesions. In vigorous, previously healthy, young adults, Meckel's diverticuhmi should be remembered. In subjects of Glenard's disease with gastroptosis, movable kidneys, etc., retro-peritoneal hernia may be suspected. This may form a palpable tumour on the left side of the abdomen. Patients with strangulated dia- phragmatic hernia are frequently imable to lie on the left side in consequence of difficulty of breathing, and complain of trouble in their chest. The upper part of the abdomen in these cases may look hollow, and percussion and auscultation yield signs of stomach and intes- tine in the thorax. In gall-stone cases thei-e is sometimes a previous history of hepatic colic or of peritonitis in the neighbourhood of the liver. Stout old women are the favourite subjects for it. In them the obstruction symptoms may commence acutely, then subside into those of incomplete obstruction, with passage of more or less flatus and partial relief. Not infrequently strictures, malignant or simple, first draw atten- tion to themselves by producing an acute attack of intestinal obstruction, though it is usual on close inquiry to get a history of previous trouble. In the chronic form of intestinal ohstruction tumours external to the bowel should be first excluded as the cause. LUerine and ovarian tumours are perhaps the most common. Tiien chronic peritonitis must be eliminated, and this is difficult when the general abdominal swelling is great. The diagnosis is mostly to be made between the following causes of obstruction :— Faical masses, strictures, adhesions, chronic in- tussusception (for rectal cases see " Rectum "). Faecal masses are mostly found in feeble old persons, hysterical women, and lunatics. The history is one of long-standing constipation and of gradually increasing abdominal swelling;