351 IMMUNITY According to Kitt's statistics, the loss of stock from black-quarter was as follows :— Uninoculated. Inoculated. 1886 . 107-5 per 1000 5-6 per 1000 9-6 1887 . 43-4 1888 . 78-8 11-1 1889 . 30-6 17-2 1890 . 33-8 2-5 In the year 1890, out of 1167 cattle inoculated once with Kitt's vaccine there was only one death, and this was attributed to the inoculation, whilst of 2803 head of cattle which had not been inoculated 44 died. (b) Passage through less susceptible Animal Species.—An important step was gained when Pasteur achieved attenuation by means oipassage through less susceptible animal species, as was first done in swine erysipelas. The principle was essentially the same as that of Jenner's vaccination, but this fact was not so clearly understood then as it is now. In 1789 Edward Jenner published the fact, which had long been popularly known in Gloucestershire, but which he thoroughly investigated in his own native place, that recovery from cow-pox affords pro- tection against small-pox, and he also showed that cow-pox may be artificially transferred from one individual to another without losing its pro- tective power. But there is now abundant proof that cow-pox is nothing but the variola of man attenuated by transference to the ox or calf. Jenner's vaccination soon came into general use, but it was then found that the protection conferred only lasts about ten to twelve years. The protective power of vaccination was proved by Jenner himself and his contemporaries by thousands of experiments with subsequent in- oculation of small-pox. Another most convinc- ing proof in favour of vaccination is found in the trivial mortality from small-pox in those countries in which, as compared with others, vaccination has been enforced by law. The experience gained in the Franco-Prussian war of 1871 was almost equivalent to that of an ex- periment on a large scale, for the German, in contradistinction to the French troops, had been vaccinated and for the most part revaccinated. The latter, during the campaign, lost 23,000 men from small-pox, whilst the Germans only lost a few hundreds, although their whole army was in France, where an epidemic of small-pox was raging among the civil population. Now Pasteur, in the case of swine erysipelas, showed that the bacilli taken from the pig gain in virulence on transference to pigeons, but that they become less virulent after repeated passage through rabbits, and that they are then suitable for protective inoculation of swine. The last passages yielded vaccine No. 1, then twelve days later followed inoculation with the bacilli of pigeon erysipelas (vaccine No. 2). The animals are then highly immune, and Ber land- n. forstwirtschaftliche Kongress at Vienna in 1890 warmly advocated the use of protective inocula- tion. It has been tried, more especially in Hungary, and the disadvantages of the method have since then become evident. Deaths from the disease are common among the more sus- ceptible breeds of swine, and young swine which have been inoculated appear unsuitable for fattening. There is also a danger of swine erysipelas spreading because of the inoculations. Preference has, therefore, since then been given to other methods. (c) Attenuation by drying the Vaccine.—The virus of rabies is not yet known, yet Pasteur's experiments, brilliantly conceived and patiently carried through, furnished us with means of prophylaxis and cure, which have long been recognised as of the greatest benefit to man- kind. Pasteur first found that the virulence of rabic virus is exalted by successive subdural passages through rabbits, whilst weakened by passage through apes. He strove to make use of this latter fact in his attempts to immunise dogs, but as the results obtained were so incon- stant he forsook this apparently hopeful line of research for a new method of attenuation, that by drying. By drying in an atmosphere freed from water and carbonic acid he succeeded in attenuating the highly virulent spinal cords of rabid rabbits, in which the incubation period has been short- ened from about fourteen to seven days by numerous passages ("fixed virus"), and he was able to attenuate the cords to any degree pro- portionate to the duration of the desiccation, or even to render them completely inactive, and thus to transform them into a vaccine. Animals which were at first inoculated with very weak virus could withstand in succession the sti'onger, and lastly the most virulent spinal cords without becoming diseased. Pasteur then employed this method for the treatment of persons bitten by rabid dogs, wolves, etc., for he rightly supposed that a protective inoculation may be possible and successful even subsequent to infection, if the infective process be at first a localised one and pursue a chronic course. The Pasteur treatment of rabies is therefore not a true curative method, but essentially an active im- munisation. To attenuate the spinal cord by desiccation it is kept at 22" C. in a vessel, the bottom of which is covered with fragments of caustic potash. A cord kept here for one to four days still causes rabies within seven days ; by the use of a cord dried for more than five days the incubation period is prolonged, and a cord dried for twelve to fourteen days has become inactive. The treatment of the hiiman svibject commences with the injection of 1-3 cc. of an emulsion of completely attenuated cord, which is prepared by the trituration of 1 cm. of cord in 5 cc. of indifferent fluid; and within twenty days gradually increasing the strength of the dose till a cord dried for two days is used.