INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 493 and ansemic, suffers a periodic relapse into mania. The other, robust and buxom, seems a chronic maniac, interrupted by periodic relapses into ephemeral sanity. Circular Insanity.—The classical variety of cyclical insanity, however, is one which alternates between melancholia, mania, and sanity. These are cases of gross insanity specially interesting to the general practitioner because, if the rhythm has a grand wave-length, the patient may return home for months or even years, and it then becomes the practitioner's duty to watch for the relapse from sanity. And, while these cases are, on the whole, of a bad prognosis, a great deal may be done to postpone the relapse. Theoretically, these cyclical cases might be expected to manifest a periodic reduction of personality, with melancholia as a half-way stage between sanity and mania both on the down-grade and on the vipward return, thus : sanity, melancholia, mania, melancholia, sanity. But the disease is very irregular and the melan- cholia is often not observed, especially on the way from sanity to mania. Moreover, the periods of duration of each phase rule, irregular. The rhythm may be set to a measure of anything from a few hours to a few years. As types, however, we may discriminate three : those presumably determined by diurnal varia- tions of vitality; those whose rhythm approxi- mates to the monthly type; and those which are some modification of seasonal periodicity. Clouston in his text-book has a classical descrip- tion of the last form. The periods were as follows :— I. Cycle.—Mania, 6 mos. ; melancholia, 3 mos.; sanity, 6 mos. = 15 mos. II. Cycle.—Mania, 12 mos. ; melancholia, 6 mos.; sanity, 6 mos. = 24 mos. III. Cycle.—Mania, 10 mos.; melancholia, 6 mos.; sanity, 8 mos. = 24 mos. IV. Cycle.—Mania, 13 mos.; melancholia, 6 mos.; sanity, 14 mos. = 33 mos. V. Cycle.—Mania, 24 mos. ; melancholia, 12 mos.; sanity, 15 mos. = 51 mos. VI. Cycle.—Mania, 3 years; melancholia, 2 years; sanity, 1 year = 72 mos. After that the patient suffered an almost fatal neuralgia, followed by some years of sanity. In all such cases it is not so likely that a particular phase will have a duration equivalent to a given seasonal or menstrual period as that the change from one phase to another will occur about the zenith or about the zero of vitality. From these grand (seasonal) variations down to the menstrual types, intermediate varieties abound. So also between these and the petit (diurnal) forms. Clouston quotes another case, "D. D." 8et. 49, "who for twenty-six years was subject to regularly recurring brain-exaltation every four weeks, almost to a day." In others, the cyclism is of a fortnightly or weekly wave- length or thereabouts; and, in still others, diurnal or shorter. Many patients go to sleep in melancholia and awake to mania or to sanity, which again will be only of an ephemeral dura- tion. Others suffer a forenoon melancholia and an afternoon mania. And in all such phases we have to note motor, sensory, delusional, and volitional concomitants. In some, stupor char- acterises the melancholic phase, and in others, delusion ; so also the mania may be simple or acute, delusional, querulous, or hilarious. Over and above the care of these alternating cases in their sane phases, the physician may render great service in detecting cyclism in neurotic youths, and in prescribing a mode of life which will modify it. It is interesting, as was said, that most of these cases come back to sanity at some arc on their cycle. It is comparatively rare for a patient to alternate periodically between melan- cholia and mania. Also, why do we not often find alternating cases with fixed delusions char- acteristic of each phased In alternating per- sonality (double consciousness) we have such a condition, though it is not markedly periodic. It is considered later. (It will be noted that periodic or recurrent mania and alternative personality may be variously classed. In- sanities are not capable of exact and exclusive classification.) Delusional Insanity.—There is no kind of insanity about which so much confusion prevails at this moment and so much difference of expert opinion as about the varieties now to be con- sidered. The practitioner who tries to keep himself in touch with the literature of insanity must be in a condition Oi great perplexity con- cerning delusion, unless he is shrewd enough to appreciate the fallacies which beset asylum work. To unravel this tangled skein will be the w^ork of many years of careful inquiry and of clinical and pathological comparison. The following account of the subject must therefore be regarded as tentative, and it is right to say that many advanced students of delusion would regard it as quite misleading. Some fallacies, however, are so important that they must be pointed out. In the first place, most authorities describe delusional insanities chiefly from obser- vation of asylum cases of long standing. These, it need hardly be said, are of the least practical importance, though of profound interest from a scientific point of view ; and, compared with delusional states of a slighter degree, such as are met with in general practice, they are few in number. Another source of much error is that we attach far too great an importance to the refinements of foreign observers. Magnan's insanity (progressive systematised delusion) very rarely occurs in this country as a typical form. Again, we must note that very great confusion has arisen from the perverted use of two terms