389 INFANCY AND INFANT Cretinism ; Deafmutism ; Deformities {Infantile Hemiplegia,etc.); Deformities(C^t<6 Foot); Diet; Gastro - Intestinal Disorders op Infancy; Hemoglobinuria {Infantile); Hip-Joint, Dis- eases OF {Morbus Coxce, Diagnosis); Hysteria in Childhood ; Hernia ; Homo Caudatus ; Infant Feeding ; Invalid Feeding ; Knee-Joint, Dis- eases OP {Infantile Paralysis); Labour; Larynx, Congenital Laryngeal Stridor; Larynx, Laryngismus Stridulus ; Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide); Mental Deficiency ; Muscles, Diseases of {Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy, In- fantile Type); New-Born Infant; Nursery Hygiene ; Paralysis {Infantile Spastic); Para- lysis {Infantile Hemiplegia) ; Pulse {in In- fancy) ; Sclerotic, Diseases of the {Staphy- loma) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of the {Orchitis, Hydrocele); Teratology; Thymus Gland {Enlargement); Urticaria {Symptoms); Vital Statistics {Infant Mortality). Infant Feeding'. Introduction ..... 389 Human Milk and Colostrum . . . 390 Brbast-Feeding . . . . .391 Variations in Human Milk . . . 393 Weaning ...... 39.5 Wet-Nursing 395 Artificial Feeding . . . .396 Cows Milk . . . . .396 Quantity and Frequency of Feeds . 400 Boiling, Pasteurisation, and Sterilisa- tion ...... 400 Feeding-Bottles .... 402 Additional Food . . . . 403 Milk of Animals other than the Cow . 403 Milk Preparations .... 404 Proprietary Foods .... 407 Eggs and Meat Foods . . . 408 Diet from Twelve to Eighteen Months . 409 Diet from Eighteen Months to Two Years 409 The importance of an accurate knowledge of the principles and practice of infant feeding can hardly be overestimated. The appalling mor- tality of infancy is due in no small degree either directly or indirectly to faulty feeding. Nor is this faultiness of feeding limited to the poorer classes, it is by no means uncommon amongst the wealthy, and it would seem to be due more often to ignorance than to lack of means. Of recent years much has been written con- cerning the physiology and chemistry of infant feeding, and there is a growing tendency in practice also to transfer the feeding of infants from the old rule of thumb to the region of exact science. In the present article the physio- logical and chemical aspects of the subject will be considered chiefly in their direct bearing upon the practical problems of infant feeding, but it may be well to make some preliminary remarks with reference to these points. In a general way it may be said that infants require the same food-constituents as adults. To repair the waste of tissue metabolism at any pei'iod of life the food must contain five elements, namely, proteids, hydrocarbons, carbohydrates, salts, and water. But the most elementary knowledge of the physiology of infancy shows that these constituents must be supplied in very different forms and proportions from those which can be used for adults or even for children over the age of two years. During the first six months of life the teeth have usually not yet appeared, no food therefore which requires mastication, such as bread, potatoes, or puddings, can be suitable at that age, indeed in many cases, even at the age of twelve months, the teeth are not sufficiently advanced to deal with such articles of diet. The saliva and pancreatic secretion only gradually acquire their full amylolytic power. The writer found that distinct though feeble amylolytic action was exerted by an infusion of the parotid gland from an infant still-born at full term; it would seem, however, that the saliva does not acquire any considerable degree of this power until the infant is three months old, while the pancreatic secretion which plays the most important part in the digestion of starch does not attain to its full amylolytic power until several months later, perhaps not luitil the end of the tenth or eleventh month. For this reason the carbohydrate element in food must not be sup- plied in the form of starch during the earlier months of life, it must be given in the form of sugar. The difficulty in digesting such articles as bread, potatoes, or any of the numerous so- called " infant-foods " which contain starch, can therefore readily be understood. The gastric juice which plays the chief part in the digestion of proteids has its peptonising powers well developed from the time of birth, so physiolo- gists tell us; but experience shows that these powers are but feeble compared with those in older children, and that any but the most easily digestible of proteids quickly overtax the infant's stomach. This is particularly' noticeable in the difficulty which infants find in digesting the casein in cow's milk. But here another peculi- arity of early life has to be considered. The thinness and weakness of the muscular wall of the stomach and its feeble contractions render peristalsis less effective than in later life, so that solid masses, such as are formed by the casein of cow's milk, may be less thoroughly mixed with the gastric secretion, and therefore less easily digested. But there are other considerations which determine to some extent the diet of infancy. Metabolism at this period is altogether more rapid than in later years ; infancy is jmr excel- lence the age of construction. Never again does anything occur comparable to the extraordinary rapidity of growth in infancy. That an infant