472 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS Any of us would become painfully confused did we, as these people do, entertain serious doubt as to whether this is really Wednesday, whether it is wise to put on one's boots, whether food is healthy or poisonous, v;hether we can or cannot do without breathing. Such are the failures of common sense familiar in mental disorder, and this perplexity, in a minor degree, characterises many slight affections. But some observers make the mistake of assuming that patients are con- fused because they talk confusion. Deluded persons are not really confounded; on the con- trary, foolish assurance is much more obvious in the insane than confusion is. Doubt is charac- teristic of less grave disorder. Feeling, Emotions, Affections.—The term feeling is best confined to the simple states of pleasure and of pain. It attaches normally, as we know, to certain kinds of experience, to certain ideas, and sentiments, and emotions. As has been said, the absence of distress or discomfort betokens a nervous activity for which the brain has sufficient energy. So soon as fatigue occurs, whether from over-exercise of the brain, or because it is ill-nourished, pain arrives, and the patient is depressed. Then even the experi- ences which can commonly be counted on to give pleasure fail of that effect. Bad spirits, a defective capacity for enjoyment, are amongst the commonest signs of mental disorder, and call for treatment which will promote regenera- tion. In some cases fatigue induces the patient to dwell vipon his own misery, and melancholia supervenes; or, if self-control wholly fails, he takes to extravagant conduct and becomes ex- alted and maniacal. In many cases, notably in general paralysis, there is no period of depression of greater amount than is common in sane per- sons. The joy which supervenes in mania and in general paralysis is to be attributed to the abeyance of fatigued mechanisms and to the activity of the less wonted centres—those which subserve imagination, and the sensory and the motor areas. Feeling attaches to all emotion and in charac- teristic tone. Speaking roughlj^ emotions which add to the possibilities of life are pleasurable, and those which take from them are painful. Hope and fear are types. Physiologically con- sidered, hope opens out avenues of activity; fear closes them. And these states are in- stinctive, and, in some degree, universal. We cannot fail to note, however, great differences in individuals—that some are instinctively prone to hopeful and others to fearfid emotion. And we observe also changes in individuals which betoken impending or actual disorder. Extrava- gance in either direction is bad, but the un- healthy are, as a rule, fearful. Affections are cultivated instincts—instincts for people and for things which have become elaborated by contact with them. And here again we miist note differences in individuals as well as changes in the individual. Here also the observation is roughly sound that pleasure betokens a healthy mind. In the more sane, likes exceed dislikes, hatreds are few and friendli- ness common, sympathy should outweigh anti- pathy, tolerance exceed criticism. In the un- healthy, the balance is the other way, and in mental disorder the affections are gravely assailed. Suspiciousness, antipathy, loathing, anger, super- sede even what were sti'ong affections. And, on the other hand, persons not normally affectionate may, when intoxicated with their insanity, fall in love with all and sundry, see nothing amiss, dote upon objects almost vile. Habit, Impulse. ■—• On the outward side of mind, in the realm of conduct which, as has been said, largely determines personality, habit must be our first consideration. Its persistence is determined by that fact about nerves which we noted under the subject of memory, that stimulation of mechanisms increases, up to a certain point, their facility. What a man's habits will be is obviously determined to a large extent by his instincts and tastes, but not less by his experience and especially by his educa- tion. In a sane and well-ordered life habits are part of a symmetrical whole, fit with general conceptions, and do not interrupt or impede the even tenor of a man's way. Vicious habits, on the other hand, are rebellious and out of keep- ing, fail of the man's general approval, and so engender pain. Even in the well-behaved, dis- orderly or unrelated habits may be a source of much worry; and there is no commoner source of mental mischief than the constant knowledge of bits of life that are in discord with, perhaps directly subversive of, the whole. It is a truism to remark how easily habits are formed, and here we have to note the convei'se of what has been said about instincts. While it is true that subconsciousness makes great contributions to mind, it is equally true that a great deal of our personality sinks into subconsciousness. Almost as soon as we have thoroughly learned anything we cease to be vividly conscious of it, though we can perhaps at will make contact with it again. And this process of habit implies that vast numbers of mechanisms, whose organisation came into existence under our direction, fall into a place in subconsciousness in relation to all the others. In sanity the vitality of those subcon- scious mechanisms which we have chosen exceeds that of others. In disorder the hierarchy is disturbed by the excesses of centres not closely associated with conscious purpose. A man's brain, then, is strengthened by all habits which are consciously related to his general purpose and approved of. We all know, and there is no need to elaborate upon it, what kind of habits make for mental health. We take it as roughly true that average habits are normal, and are justified in scrutinising the irregular. Far more useful, however, than a comparison of