HERNIA 198 the internal and external oblique (interparietal), or (b) between the external oblique and the skin (extra-parietal). 3. The outer, lower loculus lies in the inguinal canal. 4. The upper loculus opens into the lower in some cases close to, in other cases a little distance from the internal abdominal ring. In 73'4 per cent of cases in males there is some abnormality of the testis. The hernia is, however, of decidedly greater relative frequency in females than in males. Macready gives "13 per cent of all cases in males and -61 per cent in females. The development of the interstitial sac in males depends almost certainly upon the incom- plete testicular descent. The testis bars the way to a further protrusion of the hernia, and the inguinal sac therefore bulges out in the direction of least resistance. This explanation is strengthened by the observation, which is almost universal, that the scrotum is hardly ever fully occupied by a sac containing bowel or omentum. In 129 cases observed at the Truss Society, in only 9 was the scrotum occupied by the hernial swelling. Macready attributes the origin of this form of hernia to a " wasting or congenital defect ' of the muscles below the level of the anterior superior spine. B. Direct Inguinal Hernia Direct Inguinal Hernia is always acquired. It is in reality a ventral hernia occurring at the semilunar line. The conjoined tendon, or the tendon of the transversalis, may be split, or, more usually, carried in front of the hernial mass. Direct hernia is the hernia of middle age. A hernia appearing for the first time in a man of fifty years of age or over is probably of the direct variety. Among 63 single direct hernia 14 were scrotal and 49 in the canal; and among 61 double direct, 36 wei'e bubonoceles, 5 were scrotal, and in 20 the older iaernia was scrotal, and the recent one bubonocele (Mac- ready). Signs and Sympfoms of Inguinal Hernia.—The general signs and symptoms of reducible and irreducible hernia) have been already set forth, and it only remains to emphasise the special features occurring in examples of inguinal rupture. In the earliest stage a mere bulging at the internal ring may be observed during expulsive efforts. By degrees the canal fills up until the external ring is reached, when the hernial swelling tends to increase rather more swiftly and to become globular in form. In a direct hernia there is no obliquity of the neck, but the mass projects directly outwards. On examining with the index finger invaginatcd through the external abdominal ring there is a striking difference in the two forms of rupture. In oblique liernia the finger passes upwards and outwards along the canal and perceives the arching fibres of the internal oblique and trans- versalis. In the direct form the finger passes at once backwards into the abdomen. A con- genital hernia may at its first appearance traverse the whole length of the processus vaginalis and reach the testis. A hernia into the funicular process may immediately descend well into the scrotum ; if so, it will be cylindrical rather than globular in form. An infantile hernia has no special clinical features. A properitoneal hernia is generally first re- cognised when symptoms of acute or subacute strangulation develop. In those cases where the diverticular sac projects outwards or back- wards a swelling may be noticed. In 22 cases out of 36 recorded by Breiter, a " tumour or tumefaction" was noticed in 22. This pro- portion is probably in excess of the truth, for many cases of properitoneal hernia are recog- nised only as examples of " reduction in mass." In interstitial hernia the mural sac is always capable of being recognised. At one time or another the sac can be seen distended with the usual hernial contents, and no difficulty will be experienced in the recognition. The symptoms are inconspicuous, and strangiilation is in- frequent. Differential Diagnosis.—From Femoral Hernia. —The difficulty in distinguishing inguinal from femoral hernia is far greater in women, especially stout women with indefinite landmarks and small ruptures, than in men. The crease in the skin of the groin is at its iimer end, very close to the pubic spine. If this point be fovmd and the finger placed upon it, the hernia above and internal to the finger is inguinal, and below and external to it femoral. If the hernia has reached the labium or the scrotum it must, of course, be inguinal. If the hernia be reducible, the point of its emergence from the internal abdominal or feinoral ring may be ascertained. From Scrotal Swellings.—The chief faults in the diagnosis of inguinal hernia are concerned with swellings of the scrotum, hydrocele in its various forms, enlargements of the testis, vari- cocele, ha^matocele and hydrocele of the cord. In examining a tumour occupying the scrotum it is necessary, in the first place, to determine whether the tumour is primarily scrotal or primarily abdominal, and an attempt must there- fore be made to define the upper end of the swelling. In all primary scrotal swellings ex- cept infantile hydrocele, the upper limit of the tumour can be determined and the cord felt there. In infantile hydrocele the processus vaginalis is closed only at the internal abdominal ring, and fluid accunuilates below this point. A vaginal hydroeele is a scrotal tumoiir, generally rounded in outline, fluctuating and translucent. There is no impulse on coughing. If the early history can be obtained, it will be found that the swelling began at the testis and not at the inguinal canal.