458 INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF certainly far more common in the insane than in the mentally sound. A special type of deformity, to be observed in some cases of idiocy and imbecility, has been termed crania j^irogenea. It consists in abnormal prominence of the lower jaw and forehead, defective development of the occipital region, and narrowing of the face. Another abnormal form of cranium has been termed by Clapham and Clarke "the insane type," having been found only in cases of insanity. Its special feature consists in the greatest transverse diameter being in its anterior third instead of behind the middle point. Absence of the norrual overriding of the dentary arcades, which the researches of Sir William Turner ^ have shown to be an atavistic character, has been found to be much more common in the insane than in the mentally sound. Most authorities upon mental diseases at the present day regard deformities of the hard palate as an important sign of a bad initial neurotic heredity. The accuracy of this view is, however, strongly contested by certain other authorities upon such subjects, and therefore remains in question. Alterations in the thickness, texture, and weight of the cranial bones are exceedingly common in the insane. The calvarium is generally affected to a much greater extent than the base. Distinct thickening may be observed in about 50 per cent of cases examined after death. The change may be local or general, and may be combined either with osteosclerosis or osteoporosis. It is most common in cases of general paralysis and senile insanity. Atrophic thinning of the skull also occurs, but is com- paratively rare. Most of the examples are found in cases of senile insanity. Condensation of the bones of the skull, or osteosclerosis, is present in about 30 per cent of all cases. The condition is practically a constant one in general paralysis. It is accompanied by thickening in the majority of instances. General softening of the bones of the skull, or osteoporosis, has been observed to occur in about 5 per cent of cases. The cause of these alterations in the texture of the bones of the skull in cases of mental disease is probably the same as that which leads to the changes in the dura mater presently to be described. The Dura Mater.—Morbid adhesion of the dura to the skull is common in various forms of insanity. It has been found by different observers in from 15 to 44 per cent of cases. The condition is probably in most instances related to the circumstance that the periosteal surface of the membrane is depositing new bone. Morbid adhesion to the pia arachnoid is com- paratively rare, and is almost always of small extent. It is probably of inflammatory origin. ' Journ. Anal., and Physiol., 1891, .July. General thickening of the dura is very common in the insane, but is somewhat difficult to recognise with the unaided eye. It depends upon the occurrence of a slow sclerotic process, the evidence of which can be readily observed on microscopic examination. Atrophic thinning of the membrane is very occasionally met with, mostly in cases of senile insanity. Small bony nodules are sometimes present, either in the substance of the dura or on its inner aspect, most commonly adhering to the falx. In most instances they probably represent merely a developmental anomaly in a membrane of which one surface is a periosteum. Inflammation of the dura mater has little or no special relation- ship to insanity. The so-called pachymeningitis hcemorrhagica interna can be shown to be of different origin. On the other hand, degenerative changes are exceedingly common, and have considerable pathological importance. Subdural false membranes can be recognised to be present in about one-fourth of cases examined post- mortem. They vary greatly in size, appearance, and consistence in different instances. They may be limited to a small portion of the dura, or extend over the entire surface of the cranial and spinal membranes. When they are large, and at the same time somewhat localised, they are generally cystic in the centre. They are always more or less adherent to the dura, almost never to the pia arachnoid. Their pathology has given rise to a long-standing controversy, which has been chiefly concerned with two opposing theories regarding their origin, namely, the inflammatory and the hsemorrhagic. According to the writer's observations two classes of subdural false membranes require to be distinguished. One is the result of a simple hfemorrhage into the subdural space, most commonly from a pial vein. The other depends upon certain degenerative conditions of the dura, which are exceedingly common in cases of chronic insanity, more especially general paralysis and senile insanity. In order that we may be able to appreciate fully the nature and importance of these degenerative changes, it is necessary to understand that the dura mater contains innumerable minute lymphatic channels which pass from its inner surface and discharge into the veins both in the membrane and in the cranial bones. These channels convey away the cerebro-spinal fluid. At the inner aspect of the membrane, immediately underneath the surface endothelium, there are very numerous large capillaries, each of which lies in one of these lymphatic channels, which in this position are generally referred to as the perivascular canals of the dura. The walls of these channels are nourished chiefly by the cerebro-spinal fluid which flows through them. In many forms of mental disease this fluid has distinctly toxic properties, owing mainly to the disordered metabolic changes going on in the cerebral