159 HEART, NEUROSES OF antemia will also cure such tachycardia as is dependent upon it, the removal of sources of reflex tachycardia will likewise benefit the latter, but in a large proportion of the persistent cases the prognosis is not favourable, although the fatal issue may be delayed for a considerably longer period than is usually the case in " cardial bradycardia." The association of tachycardia due to any cause with organic valvular disease of the heart renders the prognosis both of the neurosis and the mechanical lesion doubly un- favourable, and the end may be sudden and syncopal, or more gradual and associated with all the retrograde venous phenomena of pro- gressive cardiac failure. Treatment.—In the treatment of the tachy- cardia symptomatic of anaemia, the use of arsenic is advisable, in addition to any other haematinic, such as iron, because there is reason in the belief that it has a tonic infliience upon the nervous system. The peripheral palsies, induced by its over-use, argue a certain stimulating- influence on peripheral visceral nerves when it is carefully employed. The drug treatment of persistent or paroxysmal tachycardia has, how- ever, not been found to be effectual. Never- theless, pharmaceutical agents calculated to support tlie three factors in organic action—the blood, the nerves, and the muscle cell—should be carefully and persistently employed, in con- junction with such hygienic measures as it is within the power of the patient to avail himself of. The repi-esentatives of this line of treatment may be said to be arsenic, iron, the digitalis group of remedies, the bromides, and, in the instance of cases of specific origin, the iodides and mercury. In paroxysmal cases associated with valvular lesions, and which are not, of course, as a rule, cases of "essential tachycardia," much maybe done, as we all know, by the recognised treat- ment of the lesion, for particulars of which the reader is referred to p. 136 et seq. The effect of opium in some of these cases, the physiological influence of which is bradycardial, is very striking. Among external agencies a word may be said about the employment of cold. The careful employment of cold, in the form of ice, to the head or praicordia, for such periods as the patient can tolerate it, is frequently of service. A course of Nauheim baths is at times said to be of service, but the addition to this of gym- nastic exercises, whether administered manually or by mechanism, is not to be undertaken with- out the closest supervision by the physician himself. Certain positions of the body, acci- dentally or instinctively assumed by the patient, appear at times to bring about improvement. Thus, compression of the thorax and abdomen and flexion of the legs on the trunk, have appeared to be of service, and probably act by raising the peripheral blood-pressure. Herring- ham recommends that pressure on the vagus should be always tried, " althougli it seldom succeeds." It is difficult, indeed, to see why it should succeed unless both vagi be compressed. We know that intermission of the heart's action may at times, and usually under special circum- stances, be induced by compression of the vagus, but a vigorous and bilateral employment of this method does not seem to be free from the possibility of injurious interruption of the cardiac cycle. The treatment of known sources of reflex stimulation of the heart's action, such as local inflammatory disease of any kind, and displacement of organs, such as floating kidney, is indicated. The removal of adenoids is re- ported to have been curative in one case (Spencer Watson). Having said so much, however, it ought to be added that it seems as impossible to retard the action of the heart in many cases of tachycardia, persistent and paroxysmal, as it is to accelerate it when bradycardia is of long diu-ation. They appear to be what Dehio would call cardial, not extra-cardial, in origin, and, as such, unaft'ected by the agencies which, under other circumstances, influence the action of the heart. Arrhythmia.—Under this term are included all abnormalities of cardiac action not solely characterised by diminution or increase of the rate of pulsation. In some respects the term is misleading, for abnormalities in pulsation are frequently observed which, while they differ from the isochronism of normal action, are, nevertheless, rhythmical in iheir arrhythmia. To rectify this contradiction, however, would lead to a multiplication of terms, which it is advisable, so far as is possible, to avoid. An ideal nomenclature no doubt would convey not merely the recognition of the fact of a particular kind of abnormality, but likewise the physi- ological nature of the action in question, and this the sphygmograph enables us in some measure to do in these cases. Using arrhythmia in its widest sense, the condition is met with at all ages from childhood to old age and in both sexes. Its persistence, however, for a sufiicient length of time to entitle it to be regarded as a definite morbid condition, is most frequently met witli in adult life, and especially after the meridian of life is past. That is, when the wear and tear of life leaves its traces in texture. The condition is more common than either persistent bradycardia or persistent tachycardia, and perhaps owing to this very fact a statistical estimate of its incidence at certain ages and in both sexes is difficult to obtain. The writer believes, how- ever, that it may be asserted that persistent arrhythmia, unassociated with organic valvular disease of rheumatic origin, is more common in men than in women, aiad most common among those in the arterio-sclerotic period during and after the fifth decade. The arrhythmia associ-