346 IMMUNITY an exudation is more markedly bactericidal than the blood and serum of the same animal. This increase of bactericidal power does not depend on phagocytosis, for it is maintained after freez- ing and then thawing the exudation—a pro- cedure which kills the leucocytes of a warm- blooded animal, but does not destroy the alexins. This was afterwards confirmed by Schattenfroh and Jacob; and Bail and Bordet, working in Metschnikoff's laboratory, proved by a series of experiments that bactericidal sub- stances are supplied to the serum by the leuco- cytes. Metschnikoff accordingly admits that alexins may be produced by leucocytes, but conceives that they only pass into the serum on the death of the phagocytes (" Phagolysis"), such as occurs in abundance after the with- drawal of blood or after its injection into serous cavities. He says there are no alexins in the normal tissues and the blood within the body because living leucocytes, in his opinion, do not secrete any alexins. Buchner, Laschtschenko, and others dispute this assertion. Whether the question be finally decided in favour of one or other view, yet in either case we would have to conclude that, at the commencement of every infective process, as soon as the normal con- ditions are altered by the presence of bacteria, phagolysis occurs, i.e. death of the phagocytes, whereby alexins get into the locally exuded fluid. But when once there, they must mani- fest their bactericidal action, and the primary injury to the vitality of the micro-organisms is always therefore due to alexins. This injury is not detectable microscopically, but in conse- quence thereof the secondary process which may be seen under the microscope, i.e. the devouring of the bacteria by phagocytes, is rendered much easier. The detection of virulent bacteria in the interior of phagocytes is no proof against a primary antecedent injury induced by alexins, for the injury may possibly consist merely in a momentary suspension of the vital chemical activity of the micro-organism—a condition of latency, as in bacteria kept at a temperature below 0° C. for example—whereby the elabora- tion of toxin, and therefore negative chemio- taxis, is momentarily suppressed, whilst positive chemiotaxis due to excretion from the bacterial cell of traces of its proteid constituents alone continues in force. Should the phagocytes afterwards succumb to any cause, e.g. to one experimentally induced, the engulfed bacteria may then renew their vital activity, may multi- ply, and show undiminished virulence. A view similar to this had formerly been advanced by Bouchard, and such a theory is, it now appears, the most correct. In contra- distinction to the phagocytic and humoral theories it may be termed the "alexocyte theory," for the cells by means of their alexins cfifect partly an intra- and partly an extra- cellular destruction of bacteria which have invaded the body. Alexins, as products of leucocytes, appear to be related to those histo- lytic enzymes of the latter (Leber), which cause tissue softening in abscesses, and especially in cold abscesses. The proteolytic action of leuco- cytes can be experimentally demonstrated by the introduction of little cubes of coagulated egg albumin into the subcutaneous tissue of rabbits ; the albumin after a time is seen to be softened and digested. The absorption of cat- gut in completely aseptic wounds is another instance of the proteolytic action of leucocytes, an action which is in keeping with their funda- mental character as absorptive cells. Chemio- tactic attraction of leucocytes is not only effected by bacteria and bacterial products, but also by vegetable casein, and by all abnormal animal albumins (Buchner). The leucocytes are therefore not merely combative, but also absorptive cells. On this account the alexins, which must be regarded as proteolytic enzymes derived from leucocytes, cannot be considered as formed for the purpose of affording protection against bacteria, but must be regarded as an appliance common to and indispensable for every animal organism. They normally effect the dissolution of organised substances, yet their action may also be directed against sub- stances and cells which may have penetrated as foreign bodies, whether they be the red blood corpuscles of a foreign species, bacteria, or other microscopic fungi. C. Increase of Natural Resistance to Bacteria This may occur in two forms, either general- ised throughout the whole organism or locally in particular areas or organs. 1. General increase of natural resistance to bacteria is effected by such agents as induce general hyperleucocytosis, for if the blood con- tains an excess of leucocytes it possesses in- ci-eased bactericidal power, unless the leuco- cytosis be a pathological one, as, for example, in leucocythajmia. Hyperleucocytosis can be effected by various means, but their action is always that of increasing the preventive powers of the body. The following preparations have been hitherto successfully' employed subcutane- ously :—deutero-albumose prepared by digestion (Matthes and Krehl), organic extracts, spermin, and substances allied to albumose (Goldscheider and Jakob), yeast nuclein and nucleic acid obtained from yeast (Vaughan, M. Hahn), papa- yotin (Pawlowsky), emidsin, diastase (Hilde- brandt), and pilocarpin (Loewy and Richter). Success may also be attained in the human sub- ject (M. Hahn), and according to the results re- corded in America the above-mentioned products obtained from yeasts are those whose admini- stration is likely to be the most successful. Similar effects can be obtained by the use of bacterial proteins — substances extracted from