HAEMOPTYSIS 43 is iisually sufficient for the first few days, along with, it may be, a little pounded meat and milk pudding. Alcoholic stimulants must be strictly avoided, except in the rare instances where there is danger of syncope. The pulse must be carefully watched. (4) Saline Purgatives. — These lower the blood-pressure by acting as derivatives. Dr. Kingston Fowler recommends one drachm of sulphate of magnesia with 20 grains of sulphate of soda given every four hours. (5) Ice-hag to Chest—Is now little used. Has probably no effect on the ruptured vessels, but if applied over the prsecordial region may have some effect in lessening the cardiac excitability. (6) Other Medicinal Remedies. — (a) Astrin- gents.—Though used extensively by the older school of practitioners, their value is exceedingly doubtful. Ergot, which is undoubtedly a valuable drug in uterine haemorrhage, has the greatest reputation, while hazeline, gallic acid, and turpentine are also employed. Sir R. Douglas Powell speaks well of acetate of lead in combination with dilute sulphuric acid. Hydrastis Canadensis is used by some American physicians. It is not easy to understand what effect such astringents can possibly have on an ulcerated vessel or ruptured aneurysm. Indeed, Bradford and Dean have shown that ergot and hazeline actually raise the blood-pressure in the pulmonary circulation. Clinical experience is also against the use of these remedies. During the writer's term of office as house physician at Brompton Hospital he was never once called upon to administer ergot or any other astringent. They are better withheld altogether, as they derange digestion and induce constipation. {h) Aconite has been recommended by Dr. Andrew on the ground that it lowers the blood- pressure in the pulmonary circulation (Bradford and Dean). B. The prevention of the regurgitation of blood and its subsequent exjDulsion in the event of its occurrence are secured by the following- means :— (1) Position of the Patient.—This is of the utmost importance. The patient, on the occur- rence of a severe hsemoptysis, should be immediately turned and made to lie on the affected or most affected side. It is the corre- sponding lung that is the source of the haemorrhage. If this is done, then any regurgita- tion of blood that may occur will, owing to gravity, take place from the trachea into the bronchus of the affected lung, where it will do little harm, as that lung is largely functionless, especially in the stage of excavation, when profuse hsemoptysis is so common. On the other hand, if, on the incidence of the haemo- ptysis, the patient happens to be lying on his sound side, the blood will regurgitate from the trachea into the bronchus leading down to the healthy functioning lung, and breathing becomes almost impossible. If the patient be lying on his back the blood will regurgitate into both lungs. In the writer's opinion, flooding of the sound lung with regurgitated blood is the most common cause of fatal asphyxia, a result which would often be avoided were this rule always attended to. The writer, while house physician at Brompton Hospital,^ was in the habit of writing the letters B. or L., as the case might be, on the bed cards of all the cases of phthisis to indicate the affected or most affected side. The charge nurses had instructions, in the event of a haemoptysis, to immediately turn the patient on the affected side. In spite of the fact that there were numerous cases of profuse haemoptysis, not a single fatal termination occurred during his term of office. The patient's friends should be told of the importance of position. (2) Morphia, by checking the cough, soothing the restlessness, and calming the mental distress, does much to diminish the frequent inspiratory efforts which conduce to regurgitation. (3) Artificial Respiration.— If there is threatened asphyxia from flooding of the lungs with regurgitated blood, it is advisable at once to have recourse to some form of artificial respiration, with the patient lying on the affected side. Such a case occurred at Brompton Hospital, where, by the use of Sylvester's method of artificial respiration, the writer succeeded in getting most of the blood ejected, with consequent speedy recoveiy, and this too after the patient's condition had been pronounced hopeless by the physician in charge who happened to be present when the haemoptysis occurred. (4) Stimulating Expectorants.—After a day or two it is often advisable to give small doses of ipecacuanha, squills, or ammonium carbonate, in order to assist in the expulsion of the small relics of blood from the minuter bronchi. There is thus less likelihood of a siibsequent infective broncho-pneumonia. After-treatment and Prophylaxis.—Diet should be sparing, and alcoholic stimulants avoided for some weeks. The patient may be allowed to get up after the sputum has been free from staining for a few days. Should take occasional laxatives and carefully avoid all excessive exertioti. Ferruginous remedies and tonics may be necessary to counteract the an;emia and associated debility. Primary hiemoptysis is a warning of incipient lung disease, and therefore a change of climate is indicated as soon as the patient can bear the journey. Traube spoke highly of the value of respiratory exercises as a preventive measure in cases of chronic recurring haemoptysis associated ^\■ith congestion of the respiratory organs. 1 Brompton Hospital is the largest cousuniptioii hospital in Great Britain. There is provision for 350 patients, of which 80 per cent are cases of pulmonary tuberculosis.