INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 483 capable, and which alternate with pei'haps simple attention to pain or vague sui'mises as to its cause, the patient becomes possessed with an emotion which he explains by means of delusion. And that emotion is nearly always to be described as fear. Acute melancholia reveals the survival of the fugitive conscious- ness. The patient is pursued by fear, very often in the form of remorse, terror at the thought of the possible consequences of the wickedness or folly of which he imagines himself to have been guilty; or his panic takes a prospective direc- tion, and he is constantly expecting a dreadful misfortune; or he believes—which is most likely in those cases in which there is some ground for it, and which is occasioned by visceral sensations —that he sutlers from incurable disease. Now also the disorder may be observed to spread towards the special senses, and attention, finding- no foothold in sane and outward activities, be- comes possessed by suggestions which emanate from the visual areas, or more often from the auditory. In the beginning this is evident merely as hyperaesthesia. The patient hears far too much. Or, perhaps, we would express it better as over-attention and say that the patient listens far too much. And that happens which we might expect if the disease is not stayed. Watching and listening for sights and sounds instead of attending to affairs, the patient will become the subject of hallucinations, at first vague and irrelevant, but later appropriate to his distress. For here, again, we have to note the systematisation of the disorder. We cannot suppose that in this state of disordered per- ceptual activity only appropriate hallucinations occur. But the distressed attention selects what is relevant, and, as always, attention to the distressful increases the facility of their occurrence; and so painful hallucinations sur- vive over others. All these are the positive survivals of activity in acute melancholia. In this condition purposeful acts are almost in abeyance. But there is still the risk of suicide of an impulsive kind, though the patient is now imable to plan and to scheme for it. Acute Delirious Melancholia.—Acute de- lirious insanity generally takes the form of mania, but not always. As has been hinted, the prime difference between mania and melan- cholia is the survival of outward activities in the former. In acute delirious melancholia these movements are not found, but other symp- toms of it are present. In some cases of acute melancholia the signs of bodily disorder become very prominent. In particular, some patients take on what I have described as the bodily signs of surfeit so suggestive of toxaemia. And that may go on to an extreme state in which, with diminished or altered secretions, furred tongue, sordes about the mouth, dry skin, rapid pulse, rise of temperature, and prostration, there is the apparent unconsciousness of sun'oundings and of the self which is characteristic of delirium. In this stage then the primary, negative, fact— the lostness of the sane personality—is more than ever obvious. So also the secondary, the positive, symptoms are on an ever lower level of cerebration. The patient has ceased to be simply self-regarding and distressful. His conduct, and presumably his consciousness, are of the delirious mode, as in typhoid or in pneumonia. Even the gymnastic of pain has gone, and the patient's muscles move automatically in delirious move- ments—chiefly muttering and picking. In all probability the consciousness now is barely capable of description. It would appear to be occupied by flitting sensations and by quite vague and dream-like ideas. The over-activities with which it is engaged are apparently in the Rolandic area or below it—unrelated disturb- ances of motor and sensory mechanisms of a primitive form. Delusional Melancholia. — Simple melan- cholia, if not cured, may go on to an acute form ; or the acute or the delirious variety may develop very suddenly without passing through that stage in which the depression is a background to a life still capable of outward activities. On the way to becoming chronic, nearly all melan- cholias are delusional. Such a development is probably less painful; for, obviously, when the patient is constructing an argument to explain his state, he is not entirely self-regarding. Delusions are, of course, positive symptoms— the wandering fancies of a "lost mind," which betoken activity of a secondary kind in the now- surviving mechanisms of intelligence. And here, again, we must note that the melancholic mind abides by fairly constant paths. Nearly all melancholic delusions refer to one or other of the primitive instincts or traditions of the race; and, having taken a line, each patient generally abides by it for a considerable period. It is always a good sign when the subject of the delusions alters. When the consciousness de- parts from one set of delusions it is quite likely to be on the way towards recovery. The most usual types are as follows :— Consciousness of Immorality.—Many patients are convinced that their distress is the conse- quence of their evil deeds. And not infrequently there is some truth in the idea. A large number of patients who believe that they are eternally damned have been the victims of a vicious habit, and a bad conscience is a potent cause of in- sanity. A considerable number of very righteous persons, however, believe when insane that they have been horribly wicked. As a rule the belief is vague. But sometimes the patient conceives a concrete crime—murder, or infidelity, or theft —and harbours the delusional belief that he has been guilty of it. Consciousness of Persecution.—Delusions ap- propriate to a fugitive consciousness characterise a form of slow insanity which we shall consider