INTESTINES, DISEASES OF 531 pancreatic duct and the pylorus, on the anterior and mesial side of the duodenum. These ulcers diminish in frequency laear the bile duct, probably because peptic digestion ceases after contact with bile or pancreatic juice. Symptoms.—For convenience of arrangement the symptoms of both classes will be first con- sidered, and their distinctive characters subse- quently. Duodenal ulcers generally produce obscure symptoms. Pain varying in character from uneasiness to violent and prolonged suffer- ing occurs in more than half the cases. It occurs two to five hours after food, is situated well to the right of the middle line of the abdomen in the right hypochondrium, and is frequently relieved by sitting up with the body bent forward. The explanation of its occurrence two to five hours after food is that the contents of the stomach reach the duodenum at this period and cause pain by irritation of the ulcer. Vomiting is much less than in gastric ulcera- tion, and bears no i-elation to the severity of the pain. Haemorrhage from the ulcer may be ob- served either as haematemesis or melsena. Fen- wick found that haematemesis occurred alone or with melsena in an equal number of cases, and that melaena occurred in seven out of seventeen cases where there was evidence that the ulcer had bled. Perforation followed by peritonitis occurs in more than half the cases (53 per cent), and is accompanied by the same symptoms as perforation by a gastric ulcer, and death by general peritonitis is a frequent result. The peritonitis has, however, a better chance of be- coming localised in duodenal than in gastric ulcer, for the escaping contents are poured first into the liver pouch described by Rutherford Morison, and may become localised there by adhesions. Perforation of ulcers of the duo- denum may also result in a peri-duodenal abscess, or the ulcer may perforate into a neighbouring coil of bowel. Of the differential symptoms, the following- are noteworthy :— Acute primary ulcer of the duodenum, which is a rare disease, occurs in contradistinction to gastric ulcer much more frequently in adult men than in young women. It usually gives rise to no marked symptoms until sudden melfena, haematemesis, or perforation declares its presence. It should be noted in this connec- tion that if haemorrhage occurs in diiodenal ulcer, it is likely to be profuse, because the blood-vessels eroded are usually large trunks (pancreatico-duodenal or gastro-duodenal), and that perforation is very liable to take place on account of the thinness of the duodenal wall. Perforation followed by peritonitis is said to occur in 90 per cent of the cases. Fenwick says it occurred in all his cases. Secondary ulcers following burns commence a few days after the burns, develop slowly, and reach their maximum in the second week. It is not uncommon to find a small quantity of blood in the dejecta of cases of burning, but this does not necessarily imply ulceration. The enteritis which accompanies many cases is in itself sufficient to explain this. Melaena and haematemesis occur in 30 per cent of the fatal cases, and bleeding, which generally occurs from the pancreatico-duodenal artery, is often fatal. Perforation is rare because the ulcer is indurated, and adhesions to the neighbouring tissues have had time to form. The tendency of these ulcers is to cicatrise, and a scar with subsequent stenosis or a pouch of the duodenum may result. Diagnosis. — Diagnosis is frequently difficult and often impossible. Duodenal ulcers may be distinguished from gastric ulcers by the follow- ing points :— (a) Duodenal ulcer occurs much more fre- quently in men than in women, and rather later in life. (h) Pain is less severe and occurs two to five hours after food; it is referred to the right hypochondriac region, and seldom to the back. (c) Haemorrhage is very frequent, and melaena with haematemesis is most suggestive of duodenal ulcer. {d) Vomiting is independent of food and does not relieve the pain. (e) Perforation is extremely common in acute primary ulcers. The symptoms of duodenal ulcer may simulate gall-stone colic, but the occurrence of melaena and a haematemesis would serve as distinguishing- features, and if jaundice was absent in hepatic colic, the gall-bladder should form a palpable tumour. Treatment.—Except in the chronic forms of ulceration from burns, where haemorrhage has occurred, drugs are useless, but in this instance some reliance may be placed on half-drachm doses of turpentine given in a gelatine capsule or in milk. The administration of ergot by the mouth, or the hypodermic injection of ergotine, might also be tried. If the symptoms are not urgent and point to cicatrisation of the ulcer, strict rest in bed, the blandest of food, or the substitution of rectal feeding, should be enjoined. If there is reason to suppose that perforation has taken place, or if haemorrhage has occurred more than once and is exhausting the patient's strength, prompt abdominal section offers the best prospect, as by this means there is a fair chance that the perforation may be discovered and general peri- tonitis prevented, or the bleeding vessels may be secured. (3) Syphilitic Ulceration.—Syphilitic ulcera- tion rarely occurs in the intestine. Ulceration and stricture, condylomata and mucous patches are well known in the rectum, and various pharyn- geal lesions constitute well-marked features of syphilis, but the proximal and distal ends of the digestive tract are almost exclusively affected. In infantile syphilis ulcerative plaques and small