291 HYPNAL Hy pna.1.—A preparation of chloral hydrate and antipyrine, said to act as a hypnotic and analgesic (Bardet). Hypna,lg^ia.. — Pain coming on or re- curring during sleep (Gr. vttvo?, sleep, and aAyos, pain). Hypnenergria. —Somnambulism (q.v.). Hypnoba-diSiS. — Somnambulism (Gr. vTrvos, sleep, and /^aStcrts, walking). See Hyp- notism ; Sleep, Normal and Morbid ; Uncon- sciousness. HypnOg^en.—A hypnotic medicine, being a purified form of diethyl-barbituric acid; it is sparingly soluble in water, and is given in doses of 5 to 15 grains in the form of palatinoids ( Oppenheimer). Hypnosis. See Hypnotism. H y p n Ot i CS. See also Chloral ; Paralde- hyde ; Pharmacology ; Sulphonal ; Trional, etc. A true hypnotic is a remedy which, when given in quantity sufficient to induce sleep, does so without disturbing the relationship of the mental functions to the external world; a nar- cotic not only induces sleep, but profoundly disturbs this important relationship. The role of these remedies should be carefully differenti- ated, and it is well to recognise the fact that the injudicious use of the former exerts a distinct influence towards the indulgence of the latter more dangerous remedy. If this were more thoroughly appreciated, we would meet with fewer cases of morphinomania, chloral and cocaine habit than unfortunately pertain at present. For the induction of sleep the follow- ing points may be necessary :— I. To produce a slight degree of anasmia of the cerebrum, e.g. by dilating blood-vessels in other parts of the body, or by stilling any excited cardiac action. II. To lessen the functional activity of the organism as a whole, and especially in certain cases, e.g. that induced by derangement of the digestive tract (as by a too heavy late supper, or a dinner indulged in not wisely but too well), and also that induced by pain or discomfort in some peripheral area. A consideration of these points shows us that a hypnotic may act in one of two ways :— 1. By an indirect action in removing the cause that is preventing sleep. 2. By a direct action—that of a paralysing action on the cerebrum. Most of the hypnotics in common use belong to the latter class; some of these, e.g. the bromides, have a slight action both as direct and indirect hypnotics. The use of hypnotic substances is greatly abused, and for this state of affairs medical men are in part responsible. Not by any means infrequently do we meet with patients complaining of more or less minor ailments, whose history reveals them to have been the slaves of sulphonal or chloral hydrate, taken indiscriminately for many months or even longer, and the treatment of such cases is much more difficult in virtue of that habit. It is a wise rule to observe that in a considerable pro- portion of those cases in which the administration of a hypnotic is really called for, one should be chosen which there is little prospect of the patient taking a particular fancy to. Herein paraldehyde is valuable. But we must bear in mind that with no class of medicinal remedy is there a greater tendency to idiosyncrasies on the part of patients, and these idiosyncrasies are usually of a nature calling for special vigilance on the part of the practitioner. It may be that the dose given was insufficient, and in place of a paralysing action in the cerebrum, the very reverse action was induced, to the detriment both of the patient and practitioner. Again, the dose may have been excessive, and a result- ing depression of the heart and vital powers causes additional anxiety. Special care must be taken with the use of all recent remedies with advertised powerful hypnotic action, said to be unaccompanied by any svich untoward effects. A few general rules can only be given; no hard and fast rules can be formulated. 1. Ascertain the cause of the sleeplessness, and if, as is very frequently the case, that depends on a general state of health, calling for a short or long complete rest with change of air, scenery, occupation, etc., that must be enjoined, and to the exclusion of all so-called hypnotic remedies. 2. General tonic remedies, and it may be special tonics, such as digitalis, are very fre- quently the line of treatment indicated. 3. In cases of brain unrest and irritability resulting from brain fatigue, in addition to enjoining the necessary brain rest, a judicious course of bromides will be found most appro- priate. The following prescription can be cordially recommended :— R Sodii bromidi . . 3ss. Quin. hydrobrom. . . 5ss. Tinct. aurantii . • sj- AqujE ad . . • o^j- A tablespoonful to be taken in a winegiassful of water an hour before bed-time. For use under medical directions only. 4. In other cases it may be advisable to fall back on sulphonal, bromidin, chloretone, trional, and the like—in the use of which two points should always be kept in mind :— {a) The remedy should be prescribed for a stated time, and only taken imder medical supervision. {b) The dose administered should be carefully selected to meet the requirements of each case; the great variations in susceptibility of different patients must ever be kept in mind.