GYNECOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS IN medicine or an enema is a necessary preliminary to these methods of examination. (3) Details to be noted : in practising rectal touch, note (a) the presence of piles (external or internal), fissures, polypi, or strictures in the canal; (b) the direction, mobility, and relations of the coccyx, and its tenderness (coccygodynia); (c) the state of the cervix and body of the uterus as felt through the anterior rectal wall; (d) the presence and nature of bodies behind, above, or at the sides of the uterus (only possible if the uterus be depressed by the left hand over the abdomen, or drawn down by a volsella in the vagina attached to the cervix). 7. Examination aided by the Use of In- struments :— (I.) Vaginal Speculum. (1) Spatular Variety of Vaginal Speculum : this variety, including the well-known Sims' speculum, is the most useful, and the only truly scientific type. (a) Description: Sims' speculum is really a double perineal retractor (in an emergency a spoon handle bent at an angle will serve the purpose), and consists of a handle with a "duck-bill" blade at each end at right angles to the handle; each blade is concave anteriorly and the one is larger than the other; the whole instrument is made of metal. There are many modifications ; in one (Bozeman's) the blades are attached to the handle at a slightly acute angle, and in another (Simon's) there are several blades of different sizes and shapes, which can all be fixed to the same handle. (h) Method of Use: (1) the position of the patient is the most important factor in the successful use of spatular specula: she may be placed in the genu-pectoral position, but since this is irksome, the semi-prone or Sims' position is that commonly employed for purely diagnostic purposes: ^ she lies on her left side and partly on her face on the couch, with the left arm drawn out from under her and hanging over the edge of the couch next to the gynaecologist, and with her thighs flexed upon the abdomen, the right one being drawn up farther than the left so as to touch, with its inner aspect, the couch above it; in this posture the pelvis is higher than the abdomen, and, therefore, when the lips of the vulva are separated and the perineum retracted, air rushes into the vagina through the displacement diaphragmwards of the anterior segment of the pelvic floor; (2) Mode of App)lication: the blade to be used is now chosen, and the instrument is washed, warmed, and vaseline is applied to the convex surface of the blade chosen; the other blade is then grasped in the left hand while two fingers of the right hand separate the labia; the blade is carried into the vagina and pushed onwards, ^ In operative work it is common to use the spatular speculum, with the patient in the lithotomy position. following the curve of the posterior vaginal wall till it rests in the posterior fornix; if the perineum is now retracted, and the tip of the blade tilted forward, the vagina balloons and a good view is obtained of the cervix, the fornices, and the walls; if any further manipulation is intended, it is almost essential to have an assistant (not necessarily a trained one) to hold the speculum in position (Auvard's self-retaining duck-bill speculum, with its handle weighted with lead, can only be used in the lithotomy position). (c) Advantages and Disadvantage : the great advantage of the spatular over the other forms of speculum is that, by utilising the separation of the segments of the pelvic floor produced by the effect of posture, it converts a closed canal into an open cavity, and so gives a better view of all the internal parts. Apart from diagnosis, it makes possible a long series of minor and major gynaecological operations on the uterus and vagina; its sole disadvantage is the need for an assistant to hold it in position if the gyntecologist contemplates ojaerative interference or further diagnostic manipulations {e.g. use of uterine sound). {d) Cautions : use gentleness ; avoid ti'action on vulvar hairs; obtain a good light (daylight or portable electric light, e.g. on forehead); and precede use of speculum by per vaginal and bimanual examinations. (e) Contra-indications: menstruation, preg- nancy (as a rule), acute inflammation, cancer of cervix, and virginal state (as a rule). (2) Tubular Variety of Vaginal Speculum : this variety, represented by the so-called Fer- gusson speculum, is now only used for diagnostic purposes by the general practitioner. (a) Description: is tubular in shape, with a proximal trumpet-shaped end (to be held in the hand), and a distal bevelled end, in which the cervix lies (when the instrument is in position); the bevelling gives the tube a short (anterior) side, and a longer (posterior) one to suit the shape of the vagina; the maker's name (Fergus- son) is often foimd at the proximal end of the anterior side ; three sizes are common, measur- ing from a half to two inches in diameter, and they fit into each other, forming a " nest," but they are generally made too long for the normal vagina ; the material is glass, coated with quick- silver, and covered with vulcanite or caoutchouc, and varnished ; but they may be made of metal, ivory, porcelain, or celluloid. {b) Mode of Use : (1) the patient lies on the left side, with hips near edge of couch and raised; (2) warm the speculum, and inspect it to see that there is no crack in the glass; put vaseline on its outer aspect; with the left hand raise the patient's right buttock and separate the labia with the fingers; hold the proximal end of the speculum in the right hand (thumb and three fingers) and inti-oduce the distal end