INFANT FEEDING 405 with caution where there is any tendency to looseness of the bowels. If this predigested milk is used too long it is sometimes very difficult to return to ordinary milk, the stomach refuses to do its work after having it done for it so long. Lastly, in the process of peptonisation the milk loses its antiscorbutic value, and an infant fed for several weeks on peptonised milk may develop infantile scurvy. Whey is often very useful for infants who are unable to digest casein. It is made either by the addition of an acid or by the action of rennet on milk. A convenient method is to use essence of rennet or Benger's curdling fluid. Add one teaspoonful of either of these to half a pint of milk, which has been wai*med to about 98° F.; let it stand before the fire until the curd has set, then break up the curd thoroughly with a fork, and allow it to stand for fifteen minutes, then strain off the curd, and heat the whey to the boiling-point. Where rennet or essence of rennet is not obtainable, lemon juice may be used in the proportion of one teaspoonful to half a pint of milk; such lemon whey is particularly useful as a food in infantile scurvy. In some cases sherry whey is more useful, especially where it is desired to combine a stimulant with the food ; in the extreme exhaustion of acute gastro- enteritis, or in the late stages of marasmus, few foods are so well taken. For infants, also, whose digestion has become so enfeebled by a long course of unsuitable diet that they seem scarcely able to digest anything, the sherry whey seems to act both as a stimulant to the gastric function and an easily assimilated food, so that, after a few days, it is possible to add cautiously other food, and so gradually to en- courage the infant to take a more nourishing diet. Sherry whey is made by heating half a pint of milk just to the boiling-point, adding a good wineglassful of sherry, then heating to the boiling-point and allowing to stand until the curd has settled; the curd is then separated from the whey by straining through muslin. Whey is milk from which the casein has been removed; but the casein in its precipitation carries with it the greater part of the fat globules, so that the constituents of whey are the lactalbumin, sugar, and salts of milk, with very little of the fat and practically none of the casein. It is, therefore, not suificiently nourish- ing for prolonged use; the proportion of fat, in particular, is seriously deficient; it amounts, according to Koenig, only to -24 per cent, while the proteid amounts only to '82 per cent. If whey is to be used for more than a few days, therefore, it is generally advisable to add cream : and many infants will make excellent progress for several weeks on a mixture of whey and cream alone. The addition of a little raw meat juice to two or three feeds, or the substitution of one or two feeds of veal broth or chicken broth, will rectify the low percentage of pro- teid s. A useful mixture may be obtained by adding cream and sugar in the following pro- portions :— Whey 4 tablespoonfuls. Cream (48 per cent) . . 1 teaspoonful. Milk-sugar .... Half a teaspoonful. For an infant who is able to digest more proteid a small quantity of casein may be added by using the weaker home-made 8 per cent cream; thus— Whey . . . . .6 tablespoonfuls. Cream (8 per cent) . .2 ,, Milk-sugar .... 1 teaspoonful. When the digestion is still further improved, ordinary milk may be added to the whey (after this has been boiled to stop the action of the curdling ferment), and such a mixture as the following may be given :— Milk 3 tablespoonfuls. Whey .3 Cream (48 per cent) . . 1 teaspoonful. Milk-sugar . . . .1 ,, Where cream or milk is used with whey it is necessary to use rennet-made whey which has been boiled—not the acid or sherry whey, for in these the acidity may curdle the added cream or milk. Koumiss may be mentioned here, but is rather suitable for children over the age of two years than for infants. As originally used by the Tartars, it was made from mare's milk or asses' milk, with kefir grains, consisting of yeast and bacteria. In this country it is made from' cow's milk with ordinary brewers' yeast. At the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, a not unpleasant preparation has been made by the following method :—Mix together new milk 40 oz., water 40 oz., brewers' yeast 1 oz., and loaf sugar 3 oz., in an open jar; allow the mixture to stand at 30° C. for five or six hours. When bubbles of gas begin to rise in it, add milk 40 oz., water 40 oz., and milk-sugar 4i- oz.; then bottle, being careful to secure the corks with string or wire. Keep in a cool place for five days before using. It must be tapped with a champagne cannula, not by removing the cork. This has been used with satisfactory results for older children in con- valescence from acute disease, and is sometimes useful for infants with troublesome vomiting. It contains alcohol in very small quantity, 1-2 per cent, about a quarter of the amount present in ordinary London porter, and therefore is to some extent a stimiilant. It has a somewhat beery taste, and is markedly acid. It is very deficient in fat, and in this respect is a poor food for young children, except for very short periods. Prepared according to the method described above, it contained, in two samples examined by the writer, 1 per cent of fat, and about the same proportion was found in samples obtained from shops ; but one supplied by a