504 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS degree of dementia. After a few years, the longer an insanity lasts the more purposeless and silly the mind becomes. Primary dementia has been referred to, and, in some cases, a consecu- tive dementia, greatly resembling it in onset and course, follows soon upon an acute melan- cholia, stupor, or mania. Indeed, as was said, the acute insanity often seems to be a mere incident in the mental dissolution which is imminent. For that is what dementia is—a reduction of mental faculties; and it must be distinguished from states of imbecility in which the mental functions have never properly de- veloped. A thorough dementia is a premature and rapid dotage. The various functions gradu- ally dwindle, and the patient apparently does not think, is incapable of emotion, has no pur- poses, but is merely a creature of habits. Then his motor functions suffer; no thorough dement is capable of any work which requires skill: the sensibilities become blunt; the trophic functions are impaired, and the organic reflexes; and the patient slowly dies. A great many dementias, however, are not thorough, but partial. The distinction is so obvious that one is inclined to think that every case of rapid and thorough dementia is an idio- pathic dissolution, a premature senility, ushered in perhaps by an acute insanity. But the great majority of dements are only partially demented. The disease is limited, and it is not progressive. It is impossible to classify these secondary degenerations, for any one mental function may manifest the chief failure or a disproportionate survival, and in every case there is some general reduction, as well as an extreme degree of particular reduction. But these partial dements are interesting be- cause they, more than most of the actually insane states, illustrate a reversion to primi- tive modes of consciousness. Every asylum, for example, can produce cases of insane con- structiveness—patients who spend their days in harmless but quite puerile activity. Others are insanely predatory, or shamelessly acquisitive, and annex useful and useless things as indis- criminately as a magpie. Others spend hours daily in barbaric forms of self-adornment, or revel in vain exhibitions of themselves with ludicrous affectation. The sexual and the domestic instincts possess many partial dements, and these patients delight in promiscuous and often harmless flirtation, or in the furnishing of their rooms with ridiculous and lavish orna- ments. In short, a partial dement may manifest any form of absurd and futile activity. For a general dementia is always notable in these cases—a decay of sane personality and a dis- ability for serious and profitable occupation. To the last, then, insanity is a systematic disorder. Subconsciousness is arranged and orderly, true to itself, though perhaps not suitable to a polite environment. In aciite insanities, when sane personality is for the time being in abeyance, and in slow or partial de- mentia when it is for ever lost, the instinctive feelings and ideas and impulses of which siib- consciousness consists, and which are a survival of ancestral or of personal experience, take its place and determine insane character. Yet is that character always intelligible and systematic —as orderly as the consciousness of a child, of a savage, or of a lower animal, and as certainly represented in nervous organisation. VI. Index of Etiological Vakietibs of Insanity Dr. Urquhart ^ has purposely omitted an account of the forms which insanity often takes appropriate to the particular causes which he describes. Several of the etiological varieties I are described in special articles. But it may be useful to suggest others. Although these are not all so constant as to be recognised as typical insanities, the practitioner may find it useful to j know what forms mental disorders usually take, I given certain etiological conditions. (1) Idiopathic.—Imbecility (see "Mental De- ficiency "); Degeneracy ; Primary Dementia (see above); Paranoia {q.v.). (2) Occasioned at critical periods of life.— 1 Adolescence {q-v.); Pregnancy {q.v.); the Climac- teric {q.v.) ; Senility {q.v.). Insanity of Maturity. — Occurs when the patient incurs heavy responsibilities. Anxious melancholia, often proceeding to acute mania. (3) Permaded Insanity.—(a) Folie a Deux —A deluded patient persuades another to be- lieve him ; separation usually cures the second. {b) Folie a Plusieurs—Several persons may fol- low an insane lead. Babcock {Arner. Journ. of Insan. April 1895) quotes a good case where a household and several neighbours acquiesced in a systematised delusion of persecution. (c) Epidemic Insanity — Excitement, superstition, odd behaviour, frequently signs like saltatorial spasms. (4) ToxcTDmic and Dyscrasic Disorders :— {a) Stimulants, narcotics, and grain poisons. Alcoholism {q.v.); Ck/oralism, Cocainism, Mor- phinism {see " Morphinomania "); Ergotism.— I Gastro-intestinal and vascular disorders, varied I mental symptoms often like general paralysis ! because of motor affections. Pellagra.—Stu- pidity, irritability, deep depression, delusions of fear. Plumbism. — Headache, insomnia, bad ! dreams, remitting delirium, or progressive delu- sional insanity. {b) Specific Infections. Typhoid, etc. — De- \ lirious and acute excited insanity in early stages, I slow, depressed insanity often with motor signs in convalescent stage. Influenza.—The same, but motor signs often accentuated so as to re- semble general paralysis. Syphilis. — Insane I fear with delusions of syphilis when none exists, I ' I'age 442.