489 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS ing. Stuporose cases do not make elaborate and systematised conceptions as a rule, but become possessed of simple, fixed beliefs, as immediate and unrelated as obsessions. In the sphere of muscles the characteristic mode is that of increased resistance ; and a really good case of resistive stupor is a remarkable phenomenon. Passing from the anergic state of mere flaccidity the muscles become the site of distorted activities, and, assuming attitudes appropriate to what the patient feels and believes, will not be moved from them by anything short of dangerous force. I am not aware that any one has measured the tension in such cases, but to the casual observer it would seem appropriate to describe it, not in terms of foot-pounds, but in those of horse- power. As a rule restiveness, even in stupor, is aggravated by the mere presence of other people. It differs from that of melancholia in that it is resistiveness to an interference with a stereotyped attitude. The patient perhaps sits with his hands on his knees—an attitude of delusional safety, and retains that attitude in resistance to interference even to the point of fracture; or, if allowed, will wear the skin away by pressure. A melancholic resistiveness is much more general. If you tried to change such an attitude in a melancholic, he would probably lift his hands to strike, or his feet to kick, or would clutch at things near, or would run away. Cataleptic Stupor.—Many stupors develop cataleptoid symptoms. I need here only point out the relationships of this variety. Catalepsy in stupor is, for example, the obverse of resist- ance. It is much nearer a direct development of simple anergia. In the stuporose muscles there is plenty of energy, but it is lying fallow for want of centrifugal stimuli. Unable to energise himself, the patient may, instead of becoming resistive, take on an exaggerated muscular facility, and the cataleptoid state is the gymnastic of that mode of attention. In vol. ii. of this work, p. 59, reference is made to the cataleptic muscular state. In stupor we do not have the completely waxen condition so often as simply a disposition to retain induced poses. The feel of the patient's muscles gives us more of the impression that she is volun- tarily retaining the attitude which we have imposed upon her; but occasionally the Jlexi- bilitas cerea is present in some degree. In any case the plastic muscular state is not com- patible with delusions siich as have been indi- cated, but is usually associated, so far as we can gather, with mental torpor and vacuity. When it is obvious, asphyxia of the limbs and trophic impairments are not marked. Sudden move- ments may occur alternately with it. Mania.—In stupor we have a disease which, as has been said, is to be described almost entirely in negative terms. Secondary and positive symptoms—delusion, grief, muscular resistiveness, catalepsy — do occur; but the primary features are the muscular and mental immobility. In melancholia the negative con- dition, the absence of outward activities, is evident enough, but we designate the disease by its predominant secondary symptoms — the painful self-regard. And in mania, also, it is the secondary symptoms, the excessive low-level activities, which are most obvious. Mania is in contrast to stupor—a diarrhoea instead of a con- stipation of ideo-motor activities in a brain which has lost its highest and controlling func- tions. For the primary condition of mania is, as in melancholia, an abeyance of normal out- ward relations. True, the maniacal stage is characterised by a diminished subject-conscious- ness and by an exaggerated object-consciousness. But the object-consciousness is on a low level and quite abnormal in its mode. The essential fact, then, is the abeyance of normal personality. That has to be repeated ad nauseam until physicians leani to have less regard to its secondary consequences; and it may be service- able to illustrate it in connection with mania. For that purpose let us assume the patient to be one of an average mind, whose personality is concerned with the home and the earning of a livelihood as central elements in his conscious- ness. What happens in mania, then, is that he loses these attachments. His occupations become stale, he neglects his work, he disregards his wife and children, he destroys the peace of his home. If the attack be sudden, we do not think of it in this light, but in that case it is still more obvious that the patient has broken loose from his calling and from his home ; he has dropped his career. And this failure of normal personality implies mental pain, and melancholia becomes manifest if, so to speak, the disease gives it time to develop. In many cases, however, the malady develops so rapidly that the melancholic stage is only an affair of an hour or two, and in cases of immediate mania the pain-stage seems to be as short as in a case of sudden death. In the great majority, how- ever, careful inquiry reveals that, for some time past, the patient's spirits have been at least fitful — the sign of incipient failure in the mechanisms to which I have referred. Passing slowly or rapidly through the stage of pain and subjective over-attention, the patient soon develops an excessive activity in ideo-motor functions on a low level. In melancholia there is in general a depression of cortical function, both high and low. In mania there is activity to excess on levels lower than the normal highest. And that bespeaks a pleasurable tone of spirits which has, moreovei-, its characteristic gymnastic. When the maniac is at his quietest his muscles assume the extensive mode. The wide-open eyes, the expanded mouth, the head thrown back, the shoulders open, the spread fingers, the erect carriage, the straight knees, are in strong