IMMUNITY 371 immune body and thermolabile complement; fresh serum contains complement only. The relations of immune body and complement were still further studied by Ehrlich and Mor- genroth. The following experiments illustrate the methods employed in research of this nature : —A mixture of sheep's corpuscles and inactivated immune goat's serum was centrifuged, the fluid (A) decanted and the corpuscles (B) washed :— (1) A + sheep's corpuscles + fresh goat's serum = no hsemolysis; therefore the immune body present in the inactivated serum has been re- moved from it. (2) B +fresh goat's serum = haemolysis; therefore the immune body of the inactivated goat's serum has transferred itself to the corpuscles. Having thus demonstrated that immune body interacts with corpuscles, the next step is to ascertain whether complement also will do so. A mixture of fresh goat's serum and corpuscles was centrifuged, the fluid (C) decanted and the corpuscles (D) washed. (3) C + sheep's corpuscles + inactivated immune goat's serum = haemolysis ; therefore the fresh serum still contained complement. (4) D + in- activated immune goat's serum = no hiiemolysis ; therefore the corpuscles have not attracted com- plement. These observations clearly demonstrate the dual nature of haemolytic and bactericidal action. There are two partners in the work of bacteriolysis and hcemolysis—the specific immune body, copula, or amboceptor, present only in the serum of an animal which has been immunised, and the complement, or alexin, present in the serum of the normal, non-immune animal. So far only artificially - produced immune bodies have been spoken of; it should, however, be stated that some occur naturally. Thus, for example, the serum of the goat haemolyses the corpuscles of guinea-pigs and rabbits. The question arises, Is there only one, or are there many, immune bodies concerned in such phenomena 1 Ehrlich has shown that the latter is the true state of affairs, and that it is possible by immimising animals with cells, both from different organs and from various species, to obtain a great variety of specific cytotoxic sera, each with its proper immune body. But when we come to ask the same question concerning the complement, we do not get so clear an answer. Ehrlich holds that complements, like immune bodies, are multiple ; while Bordet, and the French school generally, adhere to the view that the complement is single. This and many other problems connected with hsemolytic and bactericidal sera as yet await solution, and the complexity of the questions at issue is such that it is impossible to give any concise summary of the opposing arguments or evidence which shall yet be comprehensible. All observers are agreed as to the actual facts described above, and at this we may leave the matter. The essential facts of haemolysis have been stated to hold good for bactericidal action so far as cholera vibrios are concerned; the same may be said of the organism of typhoid and dysentery, and we may justifiably imagine that the action of many other antibacterial sera, whether they are bactericidal or bacteriolytic, is also analogous. It would, however, be erroneous to suppose that all immunity rests on an increased bactericidal power of this nature. Wright's work on Opsonins (vide p. 373) shows that the organism is provided in addition with quite other lines of defence. EluiicKsSide-Chain Theory.—Although many criticisms have been levelled at it, the " side- chain " theory of Ehrlich may be said to receive general acceptance in its main outlines as a working hypothesis of the nature of immunity. It must be remembered that it is a theory only, and that it will probably require to undergo modification as new facts come to light. Many details are open to question, yet as it offers more than any other a fairly coherent explanation of many of the phenomena of immunity it deserves some consideration here. Ehrlich looks on the neutralisation of toxin by antitoxin as a chemical, not a physiological process, and in this the majority of observers agree with him. In standardising diphtheria- toxin against a standard serum of which a given quantity was able to neutralise 100 minimum lethal doses of toxin certain anomalies presented themselves. (1) A less quantity of toxin than 100 M.L.D. neutralised the serum, and (2) to a neutral mixture of toxin and antitoxin more than one extra M.L.D. of toxin had to be added in order to kill a guinea-pig within the conven- tional time. Ehrlich explained these anomalies by showing that in crude toxin some of the toxin molecules underwent modification to toxoids. These toxoids, though almost non- poisonous, could still combine with antitoxin. Their combining affinity might be equal to, greater than, or less than that of toxin. Now when a crude toxin containing toxin + toxoid of lower affinity is used to neutralise antitoxin, and subsequently more toxin is added to the mixture, the first molecules to be set free will be the toxoids, and until all these are liberated no free toxin will be present, and no poisonous effect will be produced. Thus variations in the number of M.L.D. of crude toxin required to neutralise completely a standard antitoxin must depend on the relative amount of toxin and toxoid present, while the fact that more than one addi- tional M.L.D. is needed to convert the neutral into a lethal mixture arises from the greater affinity of toxin for antitoxin in preventing any free toxin being present so long as any combined toxoid exists in the mixture. The fundamental point to be grasped is the power of the molecule with stronger combining affinity to turn out that with the weaker affinity. From the above observations Ehrlich also assumed that the toxin (toxoid) molecule consisted of two groups, one