HEART, NEUROSES OF 155 collected or observed by the writer, thirty-one occurred in males. The preponderance of this sign among men brings it statistically in line with the greater prevalence of angina pectoris in men as compared with women. As regards the influence of age, among the cases examined by the writer, one occurred in a boy 15 years of age, two between 20 and 30, two between 30 and 40, seven between 40 and 50, six between 50 and 60, eleven between 60 and 70, seven between 70 and SO, and one be- tween 80 and 90. There \va.s thus an increased frequency in the occur- rence of the condition as age advanced, for the seventh decade may be re- garded as the usual term of human life. Although the data upon which this conclusion is based are not numerous, it seems probable that bradycardia may be regarded as a "disease" of middle and later life and preferentially affecting the male. The alleged causes of bradycardia are cardiac overstrain from svidden or great physical exer- tion, alcoholism, syphilis, fibrosis of the heart, or fatty metamorphosis of the myocardium with or without associated arterio-sclerosis, and antecedent Graves' disease with tachycardia. Well-marked bradycardia of a less permanent kind has also been known to follow febrile movement and exhaustion, such as that which accompanies or is due to pneumonia and in- fluenza. The changes which occur in the female organism after accouchement are also at times associated with slow pulse. A quasi-physio- logical form is known to occur after prolonged fasting or starvation, while reflex influences and some poisons, such as opium, and under certain coiulitions, digitalis, account for other cases. Finally, in a considei'able number of reported instances, no cause could be assigned for even fatal cases of bradycai'dia, and the heart is stated, somewhat hastilj', to have been perfectly healthy. Symptoynatology. — Like cardiac failure in general, persistent bradycardia may be of fairly long or of short duration ; it may be an acute or chronic process. Persistent brady- cardia of short duration is of necessity fatal, otherwise it would come into the category of the tr-ansient form which sooner or later gives place to a normal pulse, and is due to tempor- arily debilitating causes. The fatal form of persistent bradycardia of short duration is in reality a recurrent syncope, and is not very frequently fully observed. When it is, how- ever, it presents a very striking clinical picture. " At short intervals there is a sudden cessation of all pulsation—a complete and prolonged inter- mission in cardiac action— followed at first by slowly recurring pulsations, 18, 20, 30, 40 times in the minute, again followed bv another com- Fic. 1.—Bradycardia following pneiiinonia. Tht' same jAilse soon after tlie bradycardia had disappeared. i plete cessation of pulse. This syncopal brady- ; cardia may be varied by short periods of more I accelerated pulsation up to 60 or 70 in the , minute, followed again by a complete pause. The patient during these pauses may not lose consciousness and may be quite aware of their advent, which he may signalise by an alarmed shouting and attempts at deep inspiration. Respiration is generally accelerated, the ad- juvant mechanism of breathing coming to the assistance of the heart. If imconsciousness supervene, it may be associated with an epilep- tiform seizure. These grave symptoms may eventuate in recovery, but frequently the attack recurs and ultimately syncope becomes complete and prolonged, and death closes the scene" (Morison, Cardiac Failure, p. 56, London 1897). A well-marked, acute and transient bradycardia may, however, as has been remarked, be ob- j served after exhausting febrile conditions, but I soon gives place to a pulse of normal celerity, j and of low tension, w-hich in time improves in tone with the general recuperation of the j patient (Figs. 1 and 2). j Chronic persistent bradycardia may last for years, and is frequently associated with a systolic bruit at the aortic orifice due to athero- matous or sclerotic changes in that situation. The pulse may be slow and full, and in corre- spondence at wrist and heart (Fig. 3); or, a slow bigeminal pulse may have its dropped-beat phase Fig. 3.—Chronic persistent bradycardia. so little marked as to be scarcely perceptible at heart or wrist, so as to convey the impression, without carefid observation, that the pulsations