324 HYSTERIA mental disorder, by bringing forward the results obtained by moral treatment in the cure of the disease. His colleagues — Marie, Gilles de la Tourette, Sougues, Guinon, Pierre Janet, etc.— have, by their researches, helped to elaborate and explain certain points. While mentioning the name of Charcot, it would be unjust to forget the names of Mobius and Strumpell, who with him place hysteria among the psychoses, putting it among those diseases which they call the diseases by representation {durch vorstel- lungen). Looking back at the chief stages through which the doctrine as to the nature of hysteria has passed, we see it regarded at first as a disease peculiar to the female and of sexual origin, then slowly coming to be regarded as a disorder of the nervous system, organic by some, functional by others. At the present time the leading authorities on neurology and mental diseases regard Hysteria as a mental disorder. We shall now briefly review this theory. If hysteria is a mental affection it is not to be included in the group of the true psychoses. The symptoms of hysteria have a particular physiognomy which distinguishes them. The writers who have upheld the mental theory attribute the phenomena of hysteria to:—(1) a dual personality, and (2) a shrinking of the field of consciousness. The theory of the dual personality has been advocated by Mobius. It is a deduction drawn from the role of the fixed idea (Charcot), in the development of the symptoms of the disease. This duplication of the personality doubtless exists in somnambulism and in delirium, but it is more difficult to explain by the adoption of this theory certa.in symptoms, such as the anaesthesia and the hyperassthesia, in which there exists no conscious activity of the indi- vidual. It is this part of the theory explain- ing the production of the unconscious fixed idea on which it is necessary to insist. A somnambulist has two personalities, two separate psychological existences, of one of which he is absolutely ignorant. Charcot has shown that there exists a very remarkable similarity be- tween attacks of hysteria and somnambulism. If then we admit that during an attack the fixed ideas are more powerful than in the waking state, it is easy to conceive that these ideas are able to originate in the individual and to develop during a state of unconsciousness. Abnormal states of consciousness are produced, limited, it is true, in what is really an abnormal personality, and it is the existence of this abnormal personality which enables us to understand the development of the symptoms of hysteria. This theory of the part played by the fixed idea is shared by a number of writers. Gurney and Th. Myers hold that hysteria is an un- reasonable auto-suggestion under the control of the normal consciousness. If this theory be applied it explains satisfactorily the symptoms of hysteria, but does not explain the stigmata, and for this reason certain writers look for another explanation of the latter phenomena. They admit, however, that these are the conse- quence of an enfeeblement of the cerebral function. Fere regards the subject of hysteria as being in a permanent state of psychical fatigue, which manifests itself by a diminution of sensation, of motor power, and of the will. Oppenheim considers that a condition of irritable weakness and an abnormal excitability, coupled with nervous weakness, play an im- portant part in hysteria. Jolly admits of an extreme weakness allowing of the exaggeration of the emotions. P. Zanet goes farther than the preceding authors, and tries to determine the nature of this mental debility; he regards it as a defect of attention, attention being maintained with difficulty and easily exhausted. Whether one considers it from the motor or sensory point of view, it is this want of attention which explains I'aboulic, the hesitation which prevents the hysterical subject giving himself up to intellectual pursuits, and at the same time taking in and storing up impressions, and from accomplishing many movements. It may be said that his field of consciousness, on account of its limited extent, can only take in one sensa- tion at a time. This diminution of the field of consciousness prevents the individual elaborating and condensing his thoughts, from assimilating them, from making and transforming them into an integral part of his personality. Pick of Prague arrived at analogous conclu- sions when he attributed the persistent symptoms of hysteria to diminished power of attention, of perception, and of movement. As regards the application of this theory to the explanation of the visceral symptoms: it seems that their mental origin cannot be accepted without question ; how does it explain the influence of moral treatment, of isolation, and of symptoms such as anorexia and spasms ? Are the persistent vaso-motor phenomena to be regarded as the result of an exaggeration of the emotions 1 Such, broadly speaking, is the psychical theory of hysteria. We cannot do better than quote the following formulae, given by Janet, which form a resume of the mental theory :— " Hysteria is a mental affection belonging to the large group of diseases due to cerebral weakness and debility. Its physical symptoms are somewhat indefinite, consisting chiefly in a general diminution of nutrition. It is largely characterised by moral symptoms, the chief of wliich is an impairment of the faculty of psychological synthesis, an abolition, and a