112 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM be either trivial or grave and lethal. Thus the writer, when as a house-physician making one evening his usual round, while actually feeling the pulse of a patient suffering from cardiac disease, noticed the hand and forearm twitch convulsively, and the patient became suddenly sick, and immediately complained of violent headache. Next day there was still headache, and the head could not be raised from the pillow without sickness. Slight paresis of the left 6th nerve was noticed on the following day, but all the symjDtoms of the seizure had gone, and the ocular paresis disappeared a few days later. A fortnight after the same patient died from an embolus which evidently blocked a large vessel, violent headache in the occipital region, iirgent vomiting, and speedy loss of consciousness being the symptoms produced, death resulting two hours after their sudden onset. Between these extremes all degrees of severity of seizure may be witnessed as the result of cerebral embolism, but as the special symptoms of the embolic process affecting the brain are considered in detail elsewhere in this work it is useless to refer to them at greater length here. Aneurysm or rupture (with fatal apoplexy) may be final results of embolism of cerebral vessels, and in regard to them the reader is referred to the section on pathology. The writer has had no clinical experience of arterial embolism in the liver, while the con- dition of this organ generally in heart disease has been fully considered. Emholism of the spleen produces occasionally swelling of the organ, accompanied by some degree of pyrexia and local discomfort or actual pain. When the peritoneal covering becomes inflamed the pain may be acute, and a friction rub may be detected by stethoscope and hand. The clinical detection of splenic embolism is only likely to be accomplished when the infarc- tion is large or multiple. Embolism of the mese^iteric arteries is accom- panied, when the vessel blocked is large, by sadden abdominal pain followed by the indica- tions of shock or collapse, and the later occur- rence of profuse hjcmorrhage per rectum. The accident is a rare one, and the writer has ob- served only two cases, in one of which the patient recovered. In the other the condition was proved post-mortem. Large peripheral arteries—as the brachial, femoral, and popliteal vessels—are occasionally the seat of embolism, severe local pain ushering in the attack, and being followed by numbness and paresis of the limb, which becomes cold, pale, and finally livid. Aneurysm may ulti- mately result at the site of obstruction, owing to the necessarily impaired nutrition of the vascular wall at this spot. There is usually little difficulty in finding the exact situation of a peripheral arterial plug. Gangrene of the part supplied may result, but in most cases a collateral circulation is easily established, the arteries of the part being sound. In the foregoing account of the symptoms of cardiac disease in general, these are regarded as the product of that condition of circulation which we have designated " venous stasis," characterised by excess of blood-pressure on the venous or " return " side of the circulation. It must be admitted, however, that clinical experi- ence makes us acquainted with the fact that heart cases are met with in which "venous stasis " is conspicuous hj its absence, to use the hackneyed phrase, and this to the end of the case. Of the three cardinal symptoms the first —dyspnoea—under these circumstances, the writer believes, is never altogether absent. The sedentary man with failing heart, however, may never be aware of his disability, because of his never putting his heart to the test before sudden fatal syncope occurs. The writer well remem- bers the sudden fatal syncope of a relative of his own, who had never manifested any of the oi'dinary symptoms of cardiac disability till in- stantaneously fatal syncope occurred iitterly unexpectedly in the midst of tranquil occupa- tion. Yet the writer had often noticed as a boy this same relative give now and again that peculiar sigh he has described as a rare form of dyspnoea. Again, in the case of a friend, while apparently in perfect health, he often noticed this same occasional sigh for years before more ordinary symptoms of cardiac failure made their appearance, and the subject of them died in middle life after a short illness in which neither murmur nor dropsy was present, and in which the expression of the cardiac failure appeared on the arterial rather than on the venous side of the circulation, if one may so say. But even such cases bear out the belief in the paramount importance of respiratory interference in some form in all cases of cardiac failure. The writer has no doubt whatsoever that had the individuals whose cases he has referred to been subjected to effort their "wind" would have failed in the ordinary manner of cardiac dyspnoea. While admitting, as he must, the occurrence of such unusual cases as those related, he is firmly of opinion that had the patients survived longer venous stasis with its ordinary manifestations would have supervened. This conviction is de- rived from his observation of patients who first of all developed the symptoms of failure on the arterial side of the circulation, but later—often, indeed, only shortly before the end—the ordinary ones on its venous side. The two conditions that are specially apt to furnish examples of failure on the arterial side are aortic incom- petence and fatty heart. The consideration of angina pectoris is excluded from this article. The curious condition known as bradycardia, which is usually associated with degeneration of the cardiac muscle, but which may complicate valve lesions, as mitral stenosis, may be regarded