HEMOPTYSIS 39 blood-clot. They are commonly single, but not infrequently multiple; as many as thirty have been found of various sizes. Besides tuberculosis, haemoptysis, especially in slight amount, may occur in practically all diseases of the lungs. In bronchiectasis, haemop- tysis frequently occurs in the later ulcerative stages. Dr. Fowler observed it in 14 out of 35 cases. The haemorrhage is usually small in quantity, but is sometimes profuse, as much as half a pint of blood may be expectorated. In ca7-cino7na of the lung the sputum is frequently blood-stained, and not uncommonly resembles red currant jelly or prune juice, and may rarely contain cancer-cells. In hydatids haemoptysis occurs in the majority of cases. There is usually simply a staining of the sputum, but a severe haemorrhage may occur prior to ruptvxre of a cyst. Dr. Percy Kidd records one case of fatal haemoptysis from this cause. In cir-rhosis of the lung, which may be due to dust inhalation, syphilis, pleuritic extension, or other cause, the slighter degrees of haemoptysis are not uncom- mon. According to Dr. Bastian, it occurs in half of all cases. That form of cirrhosis de- scribed by Sir Andrew Clark as non-tubercular fibroid phthisis, in which haemoptysis is not an infrequent symptom, is considered by most modern authorities to be identical with an ex- tremely chronic form of tuberculosis affecting chiefly the supporting framework of the lung, with subsequent fibroid transformation of the tuberculous areas. Haemoptysis is a rare sym- ptom of eviphysevia, but does occasionally occur and may even prove fatal. It is usually, how- ever, small in amount. It is matter for sur- prise that it does not occur more frequently considering the frequent association of atheroma of the pulmonary artery with emphysema. In lobar pneumonia we have the typical blood- stained, viscid, rusty sputum. Haemoptysis also occurs in gangrene, pulmonary abscess, and acti- nomycosis. Streaked expectoration may be observed in cases of bronchitis, especially after a paroxysm of coughing. B. Diseases of the Heart. — Haemoptysis is specially frequent in mitral disease, and more particularly in mitral stenosis. It occurs also in aortic regurgitation. The haemorrhage is due to rupture of pulmonary capillaries from back- ward pressure, and is liable to occur after exer- tion. Large haemoptysis is not infrequently met with in mitral stenosis. The writer has seen several cases where there have been recurring haemorrhages exceeding pint in quantity. C. Aortic Aneurysm.—Frequently terminates by rupture into trachea, bronchi, or lung. It seems hardly necessary to state that such haemoptysis is in the nature of the case rapidly fatal, though there is not uncommonly a pink staining of the sputum for some days or longer due to " weeping " of the aneurysm. D. Embolism or Thrombosis of the Pulmonary Artery causes pulmonary apoplexy or ha;mor- rhagic infarction. The embolus may come from the heart, or may be transmitted from a throm- bosed peripheral vein, as in phlegmasia alba dolens. If a fatal termination does not rapidly ensue, there may be fairly profuse haemoptysis for some considerable time. E. Constitutional and Morbid Conditions of the Blood — e.g. Leucocythaemia, purpura haemorrhagica, scorbutus, haemophilia, malig- nant infective fevers. In regard to haemophilia, some authorities consider that the haimorrhage is due, not to an alteration in the blood, but to an hereditary structural imperfection of the inner coats of the vessels. A senile hfemoptysis has been described occurring in persons over fifty years of age. These may occur and recur in arthritic subjects (Sir Andrew Clark) without any serious disease being present. F. Traumatic-—-Blood is expectorated after injuries to thorax and lungs, e.g. bullet or sword wounds, or fractured ribs ; wounds of larynx and trachea, e.g. cut-throat; also after operations on larynx, trachea, or lungs, e.g. tracheotomy, para- centesis thoracis (by suction), evacuation of empyema, or pulmonary abscess. G. Inflammations and Ulcerations of Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi—e.g. Tuberculosis, syphi- lis, carcinoma, foreign bodies, extension of oeso- phageal epithelioma. H. Vicarious. — Haemoptysis occurs in rare instances at the menstrual epochs in cases of suppressed menstruation, or at the menopause, or as the result of plethora. It is stated that periodical liaemoptyses have been observed to follow the removal of both ovaries. Sir Thomas Watson mentions a remarkable case of a woman who menstruated through her lungs at each monthly period for forty-two years (from 16 to 58 years of age). I. Endemic Haemoptysis—due to the presence in the lungs of the Distomum pulmonale—has been described by Drs. Ringer and Manson. Is endemic in Japan, Korea, and Formosa. The disease is characterised by chronic cough with expectoration of a peculiar rusty-brown pneu- monic-like sputum. The patient is liable to ii-regular attacks of haemoptysis, which may be profuse. In the rusty-brown sputum there are abundant dark-brown, thick-shelled operculated ova. They are oval, smooth, and double out- lined, measuring from 80 to 100 /x in length by 40 to 60 jx in breadth. In the course of a month or six weeks a ciliated embryo is developed in each ovum, which, on escaping, at once begins to swim about in the water. The life-history is probably continued in some fresh-water animal, through which it finds its way back to man. Small areas, rather larger than a filbert—the so - called " burrows " — are found scattered throughout the organ, particularly towards the periphery. These "burrows " contain a number 1 of " tunnels " filled with the characteristic rusty-