HYSTERIA IN CHILDHOOD 329 garten, and for a child of 4 years, an hour and a half in the morning may be quite sufficient. The teacher should be informed of the child's peculiarities, and it is essential that a school should be found where the teacher has the necessary tact and patience to avoid scolding and punishment, which are worse than useless for these children. In these, even more than in other children, education must include not merely mental, but also physical training, whether it be by a well- regulated gymnasium, or by Swedish drill, or by dancing, or by some other form of disciplined exercise. The amusements and interests of the child must not be neglected, for they undoubtedly exercise a considerable influence on the develop- ment of hysteria; like the " idle hands," the idle mind is likely to come to mischief, and it is for those who have the care of these children to encourage in them a healthy interest in games, animal pets, the tending of flowers, simple botany, entomology, or some such occupation. When the home environment is so unfavour- able that judicious management cannot be ex- pected there, it is sometimes advisable to send the child away altogether to more wholesome surroundings. The general health must be carefully con- sidered, for any depressing cause favours the onset of hysteria; the tendency to vicious habits must be remembered ; masturbation in particu- lar, an early indication of the neuropathic taint in girls as well as in boys, must be checked, for it may precipitate the onset of hysterical symptoms. Therapeutic. — The treatment of hysterical symptoms in childhood is the same in principle as in adult life, and it is unnecessary to repeat it in detail here. Change of environment is one of the most powerful remedial measures. Many children speedily recover when removed to hospital or to some place where they are among strangers and strange surroundings. A change from town life to the varied interests of sea-side or of farm life is often helpful, and such measures may be more effectual than drugs. Cold douching, massage, and electricity are of value in particular cases. The influence of suggestion is probably more often of use in children than in adults; an impressive assurance that the symptoms will speedily disappear considerably assists recovery. Moreover, in children, such aids as promises of pleasures conditional on the disappearance of the symptoms are more often available, and are very valuable in treatment. The use of hypnotic suggestion for children suffering from hysteria has been advocated by Berillon, but some observers have stated that mental disturbance has followed its use, and on the whole it may be doubted whether it is ever advisable to make use of hypnotism for a condi- tion which, in childhood, is probably always curable by other methods. It may, however, be useful for those children in whom vicious habits, especially masturbation, cannot be checked in any other way. Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of Introduction . . . . . .329 Local Symptoms .... 330 The Spine 332 Joints 332 Muscles 333 Tumour Growth ..... 333 Intestinal Obstruction . . . 333 Contractions ..... 334 Treatment ...... 334 Hysteria from the surgical point of view, and as I understand it, is that condition in which there is imagination, imitation, or exaggeration of pathological affections. It occurs mostly in females and persons of nervous temperament, and is due to some nervous derangement which may or may not be pathological. Hysterical affections often closely resemble pathological conditions, the explanation of this not being always easy. Sydenham says, as quoted by Holmes, " In whatever part of the body it be seated, it immediately produces such symptoms as are peculiar thereto." Mimicry will not explain the resemblance in every case. Some nervous diseases may closely resemble hysteria. I remember well one case in which hysteria was diagnosed by at least five doctors, including myself, and in which an intracranial sarcoma was discovered post-mortem. Again, hysteria has to be differentiated from malingering and fraudulent shamming. Hysteria is not the same as hypochondriasis; neither is it a form of insanity, though in some cases it may be difficult to draw the line. The term " hysteria," in the sense in which it is now employed, is not, strictly speaking, correct. Sir James Paget suggested "neuromimesis," or "mimicry," and Mr. Holmes uses the word " simulation." Both are good expressions, but neither describes fully the various conditions that are classed together as hysterical. 1 After all, the very indefiniteness of the terms " hysteria " and " hysterical " makes them the most suitable to use, at least until some better expression is invented. Desiring to make the following remarks as practical and useful as I can, and realising from my own experience that the initial, and I may say main difficulty in cases of hysteria, is the diagnosis, I shall treat my subject mainly fi'om that point of view. Is it not the case that in every instance of hysterical spine, or joint affection, the difficulty is to make sure that there is not present some real organic disease 1 ^ 1 Brodie included them all under the term "neuralgia of joints." '•^ Paget says that it is more difficult to diagnose and cure hysterical affections than actual disease.