HYPNOTISM 294 unsatisfactory in others. As to the alleged changes of temperature, further and more care- ful observations are necessary, while the evi- dence as to blistering is not conclusive. Forel and other observers have arrested and excited menstruation during hypnosis ; caused its appearance at a given date by post-hypnotic suggestion, and regulated its duration and in- tensity. The action of the boivels can be easily excited by suggestion. In short, many cases are cited which tend to show that secretion and excretion are largely under the influence of sug- gestion. Changes in the Special Senses, Common Sensation, Muscular Sense and Appetite.— Vision, both distant and near, can be altered by suggestion. In some instances, at all events, this is due to changes in the muscles of accom- modation. Many instances of suggested hyper- sesthesia of the sense of smell are recorded. An increase of muscular sense is shown by greater power of discrimination between minute differ- ences in weight, and in other ways. Common cutaneous sensibility can be increased, the sub- jects sometimes distinguishing the points of the compass at half the normal distance. Thermo- sensibility caii also be rendered more acute. Hunger and thirst can be excited, or tempor- arily arrested, by suggestion. The activity of the special senses can be de- creased or arrested. A psychical dumbness, blindness, or deafness can be produced, while, in deep hypnosis, analgesia and anaesthesia can be easily evoked, either simultaneously or separ- ately. Cases in which impressions, which otherwise would have aroused consciousness, are arrested before they reach the higher cere- bral centres are usually classed as negative hal- lucinations. The term positive hallucination is applied to cases where the memory of past sensory impressions has been aroused by sug- gestion, and the subject led to believe in their reality. Automatic Writing.—Problems, suggested to the subject during hypnosis, may be recorded after waking by automatic writing. Here, the primary waking consciousness retains no recol- lection of the hypnotic suggestion. It does not know that the secondary consciousness, after the hypnotic state has been terminated, first solves the problem and then directs the motor acts which record it. It is also unconscious of the motor acts themselves. Hypnotic and Post-Hypnotic Appreciation OP Time. — Many observers have noticed an increased appreciation of time during hypnosis and in the fulfilment of post-hypnotic sugges- tions. One of my subjects, if told to do some- thing at the expiration of a complicated number of minutes from a given hour, as, for example, 20,845, almost invariably carried out the sugges- tion with absolute precision, while no recollec- tion of the command or its execution existed in the primary consciousness. Further, the calcu- lations involved were far beyond the subject's normal arithmetical powers, while her waking self possessed no special power of time appre- ciation. Eapport.—The mesmerists of Elliotson's day believed that a peculiar rappc/rt existed between the operator and his subjects. The latter were supposed to be in relation by their senses with those who mesmerised them, but with them alone. Braid pointed out that the condition was a purely artificial one, the result of train- ing, and that, even when it existed, the rapport was more apparent than real, as outsiders were able to get into relationship with the subject, although they had to employ special devices for this purpose. Moll's later observations confirm Braid's views. Memory.—In slight hypnosis there is abso- lutely no alteration in memory, but in the most profound state—somnambulism—there is post- hypnotic amnesia, i.e. the subject during normal life remembers nothing of what had taken place in hypnosis. On being rehypnotised, however, he can recall all the events of previous hypnoses, those of normal life he had previously been able to remember, and frequently also many things which the waking self had forgotten. Volition. — I have never, either in this coiintry or abroad, seen a hypnotic suggestion carried out which involved anything opposed to the patient's prejudices, feelings, or moral sense. Bernheim and others base the possibility of hypnotic crime on the fact that hypnotic sub- jects will sometimes execute imaginary ones, e.g. put a lump of sugar into a friend's teacup, when told this is arsenic. Questioning in sub- sequent hypnosis, however, always reveals the fact that the subject knew exactly what he was doing, and fully realised the experimental nature of the transaction. Self-Hypnosis.—Once genuine hypnosis has been induced, it is an easy matter to teach the subject to evoke the condition for himself. Afterwards, he can make the necessary sugges- tions to himself while awake, and reproduce the state at a given signal. Some of my former patients still employ hypnotism in this way for the relief of pain, the production of sleep, etc. The Therapeutic Uses op Hypnotism With the space at my disposal, it is only possible to give a short outline of the thera- peutic uses of hypnotism, while illustrative cases must necessarily be few in number and lacking in detail. It is in functional nervous disorders that hypnotism yields its best results. Thus, Berillon and many others assert that it is specially indicated in the following hysterical affections:— I. The convulsive attacks of grande hysteric " and the symptoms which sometimes persist after them—paralysis, contracture, anaesthesia, etc