177 HEREDITY on. In short, what are called reversions are probably in many cases misinterpretations. Transmission of Acquired Characters.— The question of the transmissibility of acquired char- acters has been much discussed within recent years, but there has not always been a clear appre- hension of the point at issue. The individuals composing a species are neither quite like one another nor quite like their parents, and it is possible to measure these " observed differences." As we come to analyse them, we discern that many structural peculiarities of the body can be shown by experiment to be definitely related to some alteration or peculiarity in environment or in function, that these are not even hinted at in the young forms, but begin to appear when the particular conditions begin to operate. These are called by biologists " modifications" or "acquired characters" and it is in regard to these and these alone that the real argument has concerned itself. They may be defined as structural changes in the body of the organism induced by changes in the environment or in the function, and such that they transcend the limits of organic elasticity and therefore persist. Now when we eliminate from the total of observed differences of structure the somatic modifications which we have detected, there remain a number of differences which we call "variations." These cannot be shown to result directly from functional or environmental stimuli operating upon the body ; they are often hinted at even before birth; and they are not alike even among similar forms whose conditions of life seem absolutely imiform. Little that is certain is known in regard to their origin, but it is supposed that thej' result from changes in the germinal material before or in fertilisation ; they are therefore called germinal, blastogenic, or congenital variations, and their transmissibility is indubitable. The precise question is, there- fore, whether the modifications of the body can so specifically affect the reproductive cells that the next generation will inherit, in some measure at least, the modification acquired by the parent or parents. In other words, may the results of " nurture " be transmitted, or is it the " nature " alone that constitutes the inheritance ? Some of the frequent misunderstandings of the question must be referred to to clear the ground. (1) There is no relevancy in citing cases where a particular somatic change appears generation after generation, e.g. shortsightedness or gout, unless it is clearly shown that the change in question is really a " somatic modifi- cation," and not a congenital variation whose transmissibility is admitted by all. (2) It is a misunderstanding to cite cases where unicellular organisms, such as bacteria or monads, have been profoundly modified by culture, so that, for instance, the descendants of a virulent microbe are gradually led to lose their evil potency. This is irrelevant, because in regard VOL. IV to unicellular organisms we cannot draw the distinction between germinal matter and soma on which the definition of an acquired character depends. (3) There is little relevancy in citing- cases where a particular bodily change appears generation after generation, unless it can be shown that the change reappears iii virtue of inheritance, and not simply because the con- ditions of function and environment which evoked it in the first instance are still persisting to evoke it in those that follow. Reappearance is often confused with inheritance. (4) It is necessary to distinguish between the possible inheritance of a particular modification and the possible inheritance of indirect results of that modification. It is likely that some important modifications influence the general vigour of the body, and thus through nutrition the repro- ductive cells; but unless the offspring change in the same direction as that exhibited in the original parental modification, we are not warranted in speaking of the inheritance of an acquired character. (5) It is apt to be fallacious to appeal to data from not more than two generations. It has often been pointed out that mammals, such as sheep, taken to a new country, exhibit a change in the character and length of the hair, and that their progeny exhibit the modification in a still more marked degree. But unless statistics of the third generation at least are presented, such cases are of no value, for it is only natural that the second generation should show the modification in a more marked degree than their parents did, since the offspring were subjected to the modifying influence from birth, whereas their parents were influenced only from the date of their importation. (6) It is necessary to appreciate the distinction between a change of the reproductive cells along tvith the body, and a change of the reproductive cells resulting from and representative of a change in the body. Some poisoning of the system on the parent's part by alcohol, opium, or some virus, may be followed by degeneracy in the offspring. But if the fact be admitted, what is the correct interpretation 1 In some cases what is really inherited may be the degeneracy of nature which led the parent to, say, alcoholism, and which finds the same or another expression in the cliild. In other cases it may be that what looks like inheritance is the result of early infection before or soon after birth. In other cases it may be that there was in the parent a poisoning of the whole system — reproductive cells as well as body—which is not a case by which to test the transmissibility of an acquired character. (7) There is no doubt a sense in which every acquired character is congenital, for there must have been in the nature of the organism the rudimentary possibilities of it; and there is a sense in which every congenital character may be said to be acquired, since it 12