FEEDING 392 INFANT Pregnancy occurring during lactation does not necessarily call for immediate weaning. It seldom happens that pregnancy occurs before the infant is some months old, and lactation can usually be prolonged with safety for three or four months after the mother becomes pre- gnant ; it is generally wiser not to continue the suckling longer than this, especially where the mother has had previous miscarriages or is in feeble health. If the quality of the milk seems to be poor the infant should be weaned. Dr. Cheadle states that the only case in which he has seen rickets occur in an infant at the breast was one in which pregnancy occurred during lactation. Failure of nutrition or symptoms of gastro- intestinal disturbance in the infant are con- sidered last in this connection, for it is rarely indeed that they contra-indicate breast-feeding. One of the commonest of complaints is that the mother's milk "does not seem to satisfy the child," and mothers sometimes suggest weaning, or more often the addition of artificial food, on this accoimt. Such a complaint should never be considered adequate reason for premature weaning. In many such cases the apparent hunger of the infant is really the result of dyspepsia from too frequent, too greedy, or too irregular feeding, and the child becomes more content when the breast-feeding is properly regulated; in other cases the milk is scanty, but by judicious dieting of the mother it may be possible to increase the supply; in others again, but these more rare, the composition of the mother's milk is at fault, and if it cannot be altered by proper regulation of the mother's habits it may be necessary to wean the infant. These points will be considered more fully below, here it will be sufficient to say that even partial artificial feeding is not to be recommended unless absolutely necessary, and in all such cases the surest guide is the progress of the infant's weight; complete weaning is only very rarely to be recommended in such cases. Directions for- Breast - Feeding. — An infant should be put to the breast within three or four hours of birth; by the mere action of sucking it stimulates the mother's uterus to contract, and the possible laxative action of the colostrum apart from its nutritive value may be beneficial. As a rule, for the first two or three days the very small amount of colostrum which is obtainable is quite sufficient, but when the infant is very feeble it is sometimes advis- able to give it other food; for this purpose whey may be given from a spoon (a dessert- spoonful or tablespoonful every three or four hours) until the secretion of milk is established. Infants will sometimes refuse the breast alto- gether owing to the mother's awkwardness in giving it; it may therefore be necessary to explain the manner of nursing, especially to a young mother. The child should be held on the arm of the same side as the breast which is to be used, in a comfortable semi-recumbent position, with the head slightly raised and the body tilted slightly towards the mother, who should bend slightly forward. The nipple should be supported between the index and the middle fingers of the disengaged hand, which can thus be used either to control the flow of milk by squeezing the nipple between the fingers, or to assist the flow by compressing the breast with the palm of the hand. Depressed nipples may give considerable trouble. The putting of the infant to both breasts shortly after birth while they are still flaccid before the milk secretion begins, allows it to grasp the nipple and pull it out more easily than it could when the breast is tense; but in many cases artificial suction is necessary, and if this fail, and the depression is such as to prevent the child from sucking, it is worth while to try whether sucking can be accomplished through a rubber nipple attached to a glass breast-shield. As a last resource the milk may be drawn off by a breast pump, and given to the child in a spoon or bottle as long as the milk can be obtained thus. The breasts should be used alternately; one breast contains, as a rule, sufficient milk for one meal. The infant should take about fifteen minutes to empty the breast; it should never be allowed to fall asleep with the nipple in its mouth. It should be accustomed from the beginning to lie quietly in its cot after feeding : many infants will vomit if jolted in the mother's arms just after a meal. The nipple after feeding should be washed with warm water and carefully dried. Frequency and Regularity of Breast-Feeding.— During the first two days after birth, before the milk secretion is established, the infant should be put to the breast every four hours. After this the infant should be fed as follows :— Interval between Meals. To end of first month . . .2 hours To end of third month . . . 2^ ,, Until weaning . . . . 3 „ Even from the beginning it is important to accustom the child to miss one feed at night, so that a period of at least four hours' uninter- rupted rest may be ensured to the mother. This interval without food can gradually be increased, until at the age of three months the infant will sleep as long as six hours at night, the last feed being given at 11 p.m., and the first morning feed at 5 a.m. After the age of six months a healthy infant may be allowed to sleep for as long as seven or even eight hours at night if it will, without being disturbed for food. One is sometimes asked the question, whether an infant should be disturbed during the day if asleep at the time when its feed is due. Undoubtedly it should: regularity in the time of