HIRSUTIES 247 schweig, 1878); these two men (father and son 1) had a very remarkable skye-terrier appear- ance, they were both nearly edentulous, and their nails were soft and thin (J. Parreidt, Deutsche Monatsschr. f. Zahnhlk., iv. H. 2, 1886). Finally, among the well-known in- stances of hypertrichosis, there was Krao, " the missing link," who was seven years old when she was exhibited by Farini in London in 1883. When seen by A. H. Keane {Nature, xxvii. 245, 1882-3) she was of average intelligence, her face and low forehead were covered down to the bushy eyebrows with deep black, lank, and lustreless hair. Mongoloid in type; her whole body was overgrown with a less dense coating of soft black hair ; the skin beneath was dark olive brown; the feet were prehensile, and the hands could be bent back at the wrists ; and there was slight prognathism. She was said to be the child of Siamese parents {Nature, xxvii. 579, 1882-3). Fauvelle {Bull, de la Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 3 s. ix. 439, 1886), when Krao was about eleven years old, found the second dentition complete, save that the upper canines had not yet been cut. From the preceding summary of the best known of the recorded cases of congenital hyper- trichosis, certain outstanding characters in the clinical history and symptomatology will have been recognised. Heredity has been very evi- dently present in several cases, as in the von. Ambras Family and the Hairy Family of Burma ; family prevalence, also, was noted in several instances. In two cases reported by P. Michel- son {Arch. f. path. Anat., c. 66, 1885) these characters were also present: in one, the hairi- ness aflfected a man (Joseph Fieber), a native of Silesia, his eldest daughter, his mother, and two brothers; in the other, the father was the sub- ject of hypertrichosis, and so were two of his sons. In both of Michelson's family histories defective dentition was present, and it was sometimes transmitted along with the hirsuties and sometimes apart from it. The sisters Fran- cina and Fytje P., described by Geyl {Biol. Cen- tralbl., viii. 332, 1888-9), were examples of the minor degree of hypertrichosis universalis. Lina Naumann, the hairy girl, seen by L. Fiirst {Arch. f. path. Anat., xcvi. 357, 1884), was, how- ever, an exception to the above rule, for she was apparently the only member of her family ailected; but she resembled Krao and Julia Pastrana in the possession of normal teeth set on hypertrophied alveolar margins. Marietta S., also, reported by C. Hennig {Jahrb. f. Kinderhlk., xl. 107, 1895), seems to have been a solitary instance of hypertrichosis; but from the description it would appear to have been a case complicated with ntevus pilosus. Details of the state of the hairy infants at birth are sadly lacking. In Geyl's two patients {loc. cit.) marked hair on the scalp and long lanugo on the forehead and cheeks were present at birth, but at the age of two and a half years there was a sudden increase in the hair over the limbs and body. In Fiirst's patient {loc. cit.) the abnormal hairiness of the body was clearly visible within the first week of life, and bushy eyebrows were noticed at birth. In the " homo hirsutus" described by Krebs {Hos2}.-Tid., 2 R. V. 609, 1878) the excessive hairiness did not appear until the third month of life. It was usually found that the face and hands were specially hairy, and this gave a very char- acteristic animal appearance to many of the individuals; but in Pickells' patient {Edinb. Med. and Stirg. Journ., Ixxvi. 316, 1851) the face and hands were free, while the rest of the body was hairy. In some, the hair was very coarse, but in others it was soft and silky; usually it followed the lines of direction taken by the lanugo in foetal life. The hypertrichotic condition apparently did not interfere with post- natal existence in any of the recoi'ded cases, and it was not associated with sterility. There was sometimes a correlative variabiliity seen in the dental development, and reference has been made to the alveolar hypertrophy in Julia Pastrana and others; but sometimes there was apparently compensatory defective development of the teeth, as in the Riissian "hairy men." It may be noted here that congenital alopecia has also been found associated wdth dental defects {vide infra), and Magitot {loc. cit.) has referred to it both in hairless men and in the hairless Chinese dogs. The Ainos of Japan are distinguished from Mongolian and Japanese peoples by a sort of racial hypertrichosis ; they also show a marked development of the alveolar border of the superior maxilla with consequent prognathism (Ashmead, Sei-i-ktvai Med. Journ., xiv. 183, 1895). The pathogenesis of hirsuties adnata is closely beset with problems. There seems to be some- thing paradoxical in the idea that this excessive production of hair is an arrested development; but on examination it would appear that the theory of an arrest is better supported by facts than any other. The persistence of the lanugo is undoubtedly of the nature of an arrested development, for normally it is shed before or soon after birth. But is hypertrichosis a per- sistence of the lanugo 1 In order to answer this question, it would be necessary to have a know- ledge of the state of the hair in " hairy infants" during the first hours of life, and more especially of its microscopical characters; this knowledge is not yet in our possession. We do not know whether in these cases a casting of the hair occurs at birth or not. As has been pointed out by P. G. Unna {Histopathology of the Skin, N. Walker's Transl., p. 1151, 1896), if the former be the case, and if the embryonic hair follicles, instead of becoming shorter all over the body at this period of life, retained their double length, then, in spite of the abundance of haii',