270 HYDATID DISEASE trocars and cannulfe (Simon's method), with sub- sequent opening of the cyst; and, lastly, medi- cinal treatment, which has never proved to be of any real value. Hydatid Mole. *S'eePregnancy, Patho- logy, Ovum and Decidua {Affections of the Chorion); Pregnancy, Haemorrhage {Ilcemor- rhage in First Three Months, Myxoma Chorii); PuERPERiuji, Pathology {Sarcoma Deciduo-Cel- lulare). Hydatid of Morg^agrni. >S'ee Genera- tion, Female Organs of {Fallopian Tnhes^ Stalked Cysts). Hydatid Thrill. —The vibratory or trembling sensation given to the fingers of one hand during palpation over superficial hydatid cysts when the mass is at the same time per- cussed by the fingers of the other hand. Hydracetin.—An antipyretic medicine, sometimes called pyrodine ; acetyl phenyl hydra- zine. Hydradenitis Destruens Sup- purativa. See Boils {Sym^jtoms, Axillary Boils). Hydraemia.—The morbid state in which the Avatery element of the blood is increased ; it is practically a constant condition during preg- nancy. See Pregnancy, Affections and Com- plications {Blood Changes). Hydrag'Og'ueS.—Purgative drugs whose action is to cause a copious watery flow from the bowels; well-known examples are colocynth, gamboge, croton oil, jalap, and scammony. See Pharmacology. Hydramnios or Hydramnion.— Excess of liquor amnii (above two pints at full term); hydrops amnii or polyhydramnios. See Achondroplasia {Hydramnios as a Complica- tion) ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies, Causation); Labour, Precipi- tate AND Prolonged {Faults in the Passenger, Liquor Amnii in Excess); Pregnancy, Dia- gnosis {Differential Diagnosis, Ovarian Cysts and Hydramnios); Pregnancy, Pathology of. Ovum AND Decidua {Affections of the Amnion) ; Preg- nancy, Pathology of, Intra-uterine Diseases {Diagnosis, Frequency of Hydramnios). Hyd rarg^yriasiS.—Mercurial poisoning or mercurialism. See Toxicology {Irritants, Mercthry); Trades, Dangerous {Mercury). Hyd rargyrol.—The paraphenylthionate of mercury (C^H^ . OHSO^Hg); has the form of brownish crystals; and has been used as a sub- stitute for corrosive sublimate. Hydrargyrum, .^e Mercury. Hydrarthrosis. —Dropsy of a joint; effusion of serous fluid into an articulation. See BuRS.E, Injuries and Diseases {Bursitis, Chronic, Diagnosis) ; Joints, Diseases of {Defi- nitions, Hydrarthrosis). Hydrastine and Hydrastinine. See Hydrastis ; also Alkaloids. Hydrastis Rhizoma. — The dried rhizome and rootlets of Hydrastis canadensis, sometimes known as Golden Seal. It contains two alkaloids — 1. Hydrastine, in the form of white prismatic crystals, insoluble in water. Dose—-^7-1 gr. 2. Berherine. Preparations—1. Extractum Hydrastis Liquidum. Dose—5-15 m. 2. Tinctura Hydrastis. Dose—\-\7> 3. Hydras- tinina; Hydrochloridum, an oxidation pi'oduct of hydrastine, in the form of pale yellow crystals, soluble in water; useful for hypodermic injec- tion. Dose—i-1 gr. Hydrastis when applied locally has a stimulating action, and is employed as a lotion in the strength of 1 part of the liquid extract to 20 of water in the treatment of unhealthy ulcers, excessive local sweating, acne, and seborrhoea. An injection of the same strength may be used for leucorrhcea. A mixture of Hydrastinine and Protargol, each 1 per cent, with glycerine and water, is recom- mended as an injection for gonorrhoea, particu- larly in the later stages of the disease. Internally hydrastis is used empirically in all catarrhal conditions of mucous membranes and to increase contraction of the viterine muscle. It is given in chronic gastritis, particularly when following the abvise of alcohol. It is recommended also for catarrhal jaundice and catarrhal endome- tritis ; for menorrhagia, dysmenorrhcea, and leucorrhcea. The tincture is said to have some action as an antiperiodic in malaria. " Liquor Sedans," a proprietary preparation largely used in dysmenorrhcea, is said to contain hydrastis. Hydraulic Test.—The water test for drains; the lower end of the drain is plugged, then the drains are subjected to a pressure of a head of water of six feet for two hours, and it is observed whether there be any fall at the end of the time. See Sewage and Drainage {Drains, Testing). Hydrazine.—An imaginary compound (HgN. NH,,), occurring as hydrous hydrazine (H.,N—NH.,, HgO), and forming salts with acids ; phenylhydrazine (C^H-HN—NHo) is used in the manufacture of colouring matters and of phena- zone. Hydrencephalocele.—A protrusion of brain substance, which contains in its interior a cystic cavity full of fluid, through an opening in the cranial vault. Hydrencephaloid Condition.— A group of symptoms (semi - coma; contracted