1 ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAKY OP MEDICINE AND SUKGERY Gu in - Resi ns. — Ammoniacum, Cam- bogia, Galbanum, and Scammonium are official gum-resins; they are exudations from plants, and consist of gums and resins mixed together. Since the gum is soluble, one can finely powder and rub the gum-resin in a mortar with a little water in order to make an emulsion (the resin being insoluble). Gums.—(1) Gums are also exudations from plants, containing soluble or insoluble substances, such as arahin (in gum acacia) or cerasin (calcium metagummate or cherry-tree gum). See Gum Acacia ; Gummi Indicum ; etc. (2) The gums are the fleshy substance surrounding the jaws and teeth. See Children, Clinical Examina- tion OF {Mouth, Gums); Children, Develop- ment OF {Dentition, Lancing the Giim&); Gingi- vitis ; Malaria {Sequelae, Bleeding from the Gums); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious); Mouth, Diseases of the {Diseases of the Gums); Scurvy, Infantile {Clinical Features); Scurvy in Adults {Clinical Features); Toxicology {Plumhism, Symptoms, Blue Line"); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symp tomatology). Gunja.h. See Cannabis Indica. Gunshot Wounds. >S'ee Ankle-Joint, Region of, Injuries ( Wounds, Gtmshot); Knee- JoiNT, Injuries OP {Gunshot Wounds); Medicine, Forensic (Wounds from Fire-arms); Oesophagus (Wounds of Neck). Gurg^ling'. See Typhoid Fever {Symp- toms, Gwrgling in the Iliac Fossa). Gurjun Oil. — Gurjun oil or balsam or wood-oil is obtained from various species of Dipterocarpus by incision of the trunk of the tree ; it resembles copaiba; and it has been used in gonorrhoea and occasionally in leprosy in doses of 10 to 30 m. See Leprosy {Treatment). VOL. IV Gu rn ig'el. See Balneology {Sivitzerland, Canton Beni). GusanOpeludO. — The Dermatobia noxialis, which is believed to cause tropical cutaneous myiasis in the human subject. GuStaf Sberg". ^SeeBalneology {Sweden). Gut-Gleaningf.—Gut-cleaning and gut- spinning for the pui'pose of making catgut, sausage skins, fiddle-strings, etc., are very offensive trades; and there are strict laws for their regulation (English Public Health Act, 1875 ; Scottish Act, 1897). "Guthrie's" Hernia. See Hernia {Causation, Bloios). Gutta.—(1) A drop or a fluid preparation to be dropped into the eye; (2) gout; (3) an old term for apoplexy; and (4) a contracted form for guttapercha. Gutta Percha.—The concrete "drop" or juice of the percha tree, of Isonandra gutta, and of other Sapotaceous plants; the Liquor Gutta Percha (not now oflScial) was a solution of gutta percha in chloroform. Gutta percha is used for making splints, as a protective covering of the skin, for stopping tooth-cavities, etc. Gutta Rosea. — Acne rosacea. See Acne {Acne Rosacea.) Gutturals. See Physiology, Respira- tion {Voice, Articidate Speech). Guy's Pill.—A diuretic pill containing mercury, digitalis, and squill (1 grain each of blue dill, squill root, and digitalis leaves, with 1| grain of extract of hyoscyamus). Gymnastic Exercises. See Massage.