394 INFANT FEEDING If the proportion of fat is normal, then the specific gravity will vary directly as the pro- portion of proteids. For determining the specific gravity of breast milk it is convenient to use glass beads specially made to float in fluids of certain specific gravity; in this way, with an ordinary test-tube or small conical medicine glass it is possible to determine the specific gravity where only a few drachms of breast milk can be obtained. It may be repeated here that only the middle-milk must be used for any such estimation of the quality of the milk, for as mentioned above, an entirely erroneous estimate will be obtained if either the fore-milk or the after-milk is used. The fat may be estimated by the following simple method :—A cylindrical' five-cubic centi- metre measure, having a diameter of | inch, and graduated in cubic centimetres and millimetres, is filled with the breast milk exactly up to the five-cubic centimetre mark ; it is then corked and allowed to stand in a warm room (65° F.) for twenty-four hours. The cream rises to the top and is read off in cubic millimetres. Empirically the cream readings are found to correspond with fat percentages approximately thus :— Cream. Fat. 2 cub. millim. = 2-8 per cent 3 ,, = 3-5 4 = 4-4 5 „ „ = 5-6 The method gives only a rough approxi- mation : the ease with which cream rises depends on several varying factors, so that two samples of breast milk containing an equal quantity of fat may show a slight difference in the depth of the cream. As a simple clinical method, how- ever, this may be useful for determining whether the milk is poor or rich in fat. Any milk which contains less than 2 cub. millim. of cream may certainly be considered deficient in fat. The commonest and most serious defects in breast milk are excess of proteid and deficiency of fat. Upon one or other of these two faults depend many, perhaps most of the gastro- intestinal disorders of infants at the breast. It is a matter of the greatest practical importance in any case where an infant is not thriving at the breast to determine which constituent if any is at fault; too often weaning is recommended without any investigation of the milk, or with- out any attempt to rectify a fault which can sometimes be corrected by very simple means. Excess of proteid is of course a relative term : the amount of proteid which can be digested varies with different infants. Excess may be suspected where the stool is pale, as if from undigested curd, and therewith the infant suffers from colicky pain, constipation, and perhaps vomiting of curd. Such a condition of milk may be habitual to a particular woman, and may make it almost impossible for her to nurse her infant; more often, however, it is an induced condition, and probably depends in many cases on too frequent nursing. It has been found that the proteids in cow's milk are increased by increasing the frequency of milking, and from clinical experience it would seem that the same result occurs in human milk. So that excess of proteid may sometimes be reduced by lengthen- ing the intervals between the feeds. In other cases an inactive life together with a diet too rich in proteid food is responsible for this con- dition of milk. Menstruation is sometimes the cause of a temporary increase in the percentage of proteids. Any defect in the mother's habits or diet must be remedied, and if after this the infant is still unable to digest the proteid in the milk, the diflSculty can sometimes be overcome by giving a tablespoonful of plain water or of barley water to the infant immediately before nursing; this seems to dilute the proteid, and in some cases entirely obviates the difficulty. If this fails, the administration of a small dose of sod. bicarb, (gr. ij.) with papain (gr. j.) immediately before feeding sometimes proves successful. Deficiency of proteid seldom occurs apart from deficiency of fat, and when both are deficient the clinical results are generally due rather to the lack of fat than to the lack of pro- teid. Such a poor milk generally has a watery appearance, and is very apt to produce trouble- some flatulence ; the child may cease to gain weight, and may even waste although the flow of milk is abundant. In such cases the mother has sometimes been poorly fed, and the milk may be improved by increasing the proteids in the diet, and by attention to the mother's general health. Excess of fat is quite uncommon and hardly ever produces any bad symptoms; but the writer has thought that occasionally troublesome vomiting may have been produced thus. A reduction of the quantity of food, especially of meat and eggs, taken by the mother may reduce the percentage of fat. Deficiency of fat is much less rare, and may occur alone or in association with deficiencj^'of proteid. Infants fed on such milk fail to increase in weight as they should, they suffer from chronic constipation and its attendant troubles, and may even show signs of rickets. It is often possible to detect any considerable deficiency of fat by a mere inspection of the milk, which has a watery, greyish appearance, but this of course gives only a very rough idea of the degree of deficiency. In any case where there is reason to suspect that the infant is suffering from such a deficiency of fat, an accurate analysis of the milk should be made if possible, or the fat may be estimated by the simple method suggested above. Human milk should certainly show not less than 3 per cent of fat, and any proportion lower than 2 per cent is likely to be associated