■442 INQUISITION cumstances of a case, e.g. the mental condition of any person, when it is called an Inquisition of Lunacy. Insa.nity.—The subject of Insanity is here discussed in the following four main sections :—■ 1. Etiology. 2. Pathology. 3. The Nature and Symptoms. 4. Treatment. See f urther under Adolescent Insanity ; Alcoholic Insanity ; Anaesthesia, General Physiology {Remote Effects); Bed-Sores; Brain, Tumours op {Symptoms); Brain, Surgery of {Concussion, Tr-eatment); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Insanity of Cyanosis); Chorea {Choreic In- sanity) ; Civil Incapacity ; Climacteric In- sanity ; Criminal Responsibility ; Dipsomania ; Epileptic Insanity ; Fragilitas Ossium ; General Paralysis ; H/ematoma Auris ; Hyp- notism; Lunacy ; Lungs, Tuberculosis {Compli- cations, Mental) ; Malingering {Insanity); Masturbation; Mental Deficiency; Morphino- mania and Allied Drug Habits ; Paralysis, Insanity associated with ; Paranoia ; Pre- gnancy, Affections and Complications {Mental Coinplicatimis); Puerperium, Pathology {Puer- 2)eral Insanities) ; Senile Insanity ; Sleep, Normal and Morbid ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology, Remote Symptoms); Suicide ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxoedema); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Ex- ophthalmic Goitre, Mental Condition); Uncon- sciousness ; Vice. Insanity, Etiology of. Heredity and Stress .... 442 Definitions, Legal and Medical . . 442 Mental Instability ..... 443 Anatomy and Physiology and Pathology . 443 Causes Stated. . . . . .444 Heredity and Neuroses .... 445 Degeneracy ...... 445 Direct Causes ...... 447 Liability to Insanity i?i Classes and Con- ditions ...... 448 Prodromes ...... 449 Prevention—Educational, Epochal, Hy- gienic ....... 449 Duty to Patient—{Duty of Patient to self) 450 Heredity and Stress.—1!\yq causation of insanity is a highly complex question in detail, yet the broad fundamental facts may be narrowed to two comprehensive statements regarding heredity and stress. The inherent faulty nervous organ- isation of the individual and the stress of environment constitute the basis of our con- siderations in regard to this subject. How far these considerations may lead us even in a brief survey of practical import must be evident, as they relate to all the various forms of systematic knowledge which are subordinate to the master art of healing. In elucidating the etiology of insanity we have not only to specialise in the department of psychiatry, we have to pass beyond its limits, and regard the question from the point of view of general medicine, we have to investigate sociological conditions, and pass in review large questions of education, of training, of hygiene. In short, if the science and art of medicine is to be of value in eluci- dating the causation of insanity, it must reveal the past, predict the future, and so order that prevention shall minimise the cases presented for cure. Cure comes late in the day, we are confronted with an intolerable mass of confirmed mental disorders from which recovery is impos- sible. That well-worn adage obsta principiis is the watchword of the medical profession, and to the prevention of disease our energies must be directed. Is insanity, then, one of the pre- ventable diseases? Can we stamp it out as typhus has been subdued by hygienic control ? Not so long ago phthisis was permitted to ravage the country, yet to-day we have high hopes of altering its incidence altogether, we are even impatient that it has remained so long with us. True, there is no gross demonstrable bacillus at work in the ordinary case of insanity. We have to trace the history of failure beyond the individual, and to deal with a more complex causation; yet in a larger hope for future generations. Were it not so, our labours in research would be vain, our counsel untrust- worthy and misleading. Definitions, Legal and Medical.—Many defini- tions of insanity have been put forward, and these need not be discussed here. The all- important fact is, that the bi-ain is the organ of mind, and that mental disorders are to be correlated with the nervous system, more especially with the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. We need not enter upon a discussion of the conceptions of mental action. At any rate it in some way coincides with intimate and subtle changes in the nervous system. Face to face with the practical administration of law certain definitions are requisite, and these have been modified from time to time as knowledge grows, until they have become propositions which fairly represent insanity in sociological relations. As to criminals who are insane, the law requires to be informed if they knew the nature and quality of the criminal act, and that it was wrong. That is being further developed by the question, "Could he help it?" If the crime under review were committed by a person who did not knout what he was doing (and Sir James Fitzjames Stephen imports a metaphysical distinction into the word knoiv), or if he could not help it, then he is regarded as legally insane. Or, if a person executes a will which can be shown to have been made under the influence of ideas repugnant to the common