h.^:moglobinuria 30 tion is reached the luetaboHc processes are able to dispose of the introduced pigment, but that if this proportion be exceeded the excess of haemoglobin is excreted by the kidneys. A similar result follows transfusion of the blood of an animal of a different genus, under which circumstances the foreign red corpuscles undergo disintegration, and the blood pigment which they contained appears in the urine. The transfusion of lamb's blood into human patients, which was at one time recommended as a remedial measure, was usually followed by haemoglobinuria, but this is not the case when transfusion is performed from one human being to another, unless the corpuscles have been previously broken up. There can be no doubt that hfEuiolysis is constantly in progress in the body, and that in certain diseases, such as pernicious anajmia, its normal limits are greatly exceeded, and we must suppose that under such conditions the meta- bolic processes which dispose of the effete blood pigment are not over-taxed, or that the hsemo- lysis takes place elsewhere than in the general circulation. In the conditions which are attended by hsemoglobinuria, on the other hand, the de- structive process goes on with gi-eat rapidity, and apparently in the general circulation. Jaundice of greater or less degree frequently accompanies hcemoglobinuria, and it may be looked upon as another manifestation of haemo- globinsemia. This fact was held to supply one of the strongest arguments for the existence of a hsematogenous variety of jaundice, due to the change of blood pigment into bile pigment with- out the intervention of the liver. More recent researches, however, tend to show that even in these cases the jaundice is obstructive, and results from changes in the consistence of the bile, partly due to the formation of an excess of bile pigment, and partly to an increased secretion of mucus, as a result of irritation of the biliary passages. Toxic Hcemoglohinuria.—A great variety of toxic substances possess the hsemolytic power requisite for the production of haemoglobinuria. And of these the most important, because it is so extensively used as a drug, is potassium chlorate, which appears to share with other chlorates the additional property of converting oxy- into methaemoglobin in the circulation, and even within the red corpuscles. Arseniuretted hydrogen is also a hsemolytic poison, and Eitner and others have recorded cases in which hfcmo- globinuria has resulted from the inhalation of hydrogen containing this gas as an impurity. Amongst other such poisons may be mentioned toluylene-diamine, the effects of which upon animals have been carefully studied by Stadel- mann, William Hunter, and others; nitro- benzol, hydrochloric and sulphuric acids, car- bolic acid, pyrogallol, naphthol, and sulphur- etted hydrogen. Even quinine must be mentioned among the substances which are credited with giving rise to htemoglobinuria, especially in malarial cases [see article " Blackwater Fever" in vol. i. p. 376). Bostroem has described some cases of poison- ing by a mushroom {MorcheLla esculenta) in which hsemoglobinuria was a prominent sym- ptom. Hcenioglobimiria in Fevers.—Hsemoglobinuria may also occur in the course of various specific fevers and in septic diseases. It is seldom ob- served, and as a rule in severe cases. Thus Immei'mann met with it in a relapse of typhoid fever, and Cnopf and Huebner have described its occurrence in scarlatina. Hayem and Robin have seen hsemoglobinuria as a complication of acute rheumatism, and the present writer has seen a very temporary hsemoglobinuria in a case of this nature, and also in one of lobar pneu- monia. In both instances it was of very short duration ; the urine was pink and quite limpid, containing hsemoglobin, but no blood corpuscles. In malarial fevers hsemoglobinuria sometimes occurs, and it is a prominent symptom of the so-called "blackwater fever," which owes its name to this circumstance. Haemoglohinuria in the Loxoer Animals.— Hsemoglobinuria is a prominent symptom of an epidemic disease which occui's in cattle, and in which Babes found a micrococcus-like organism in the blood, and especially in the kidneys. Horses also are liable to a peculiar affection which attacks heavy draught animals, on re- suming work after a few days' rest and good feeding. Its onset appears to be favoured by cold. Hsemoglobinuria is a prominent symptom, and it is attended by an acute form of myositis. The attacks may be prevented by reducing the food and giving the animals some exercise during the resting period. In this connection it is interesting to note that Clivostek found that hscmolysis was more easily produced in liorses than in other animals. Infantile Ilwrnoglobimiria. — Winkel has de- scribed a remarkable epidemic which occurred among new-born infants in the lying-in institu- tion in Dresden, in which hsemoglobinuria was a prominent symptom. In all, twenty-three infants wei'e attacked in quick succession, and of these no less than nineteen died. The onset was usually on or about the fourth day of life, and the average duration of the illness was thirty-two hours. The other leading symptoms observed were cyanosis, some degree of jaundice, which was often very slight, coldness of the extremities, and unconsciousness. There was no febrile disturbance in any case, but rather a rapid fall of temperature. The blood was found to have a treacly con- sistence and a dark brown colour. There was a marked leucocytosis, and much granular I detritus was present.