237 HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF Skiagraphs may give definite information. The recognition of egg-shell crackling or of pulsation is only possible in the advanced stages of sarcoma, and is therefore of little value. The diagnosis from other diseases of the hip- joint is only difficult in exceptional cases. In traumatic effusion into the joint the sym- ptoms follow directly upon the injury, are more definite from the first, and rapidly improve under rest in bed without extension or splints. Pyogenic affections of the hip, from staphylo- coccus osteomyelitis of the neck of the femur, from typhoid, from gonorrhoea, may be a source of difficulty especially when they are subacute and do not suppurate : there is usually, how- ever, some pyrexia, there is greater tenderness, and pyogenic lesions may be discovered else- where in the body. Charcot's disease and arthritis deformans usually occur under conditions which render any confusion with hip disease most unlikely ; the author has, however, recently observed a case of arthritis deformans at the hip in a girl, aged 14, in which no other joints were affected, and in which the resemblance to hip disease was so close that in spite of repeated examination and of successful X-ray photographs, the nature of the case was not cleared up until the joint was explored by operation. In arthritis deformans there is less restriction of the movements at the joint, and if the patient is anaesthetised the rotation movements impart a sensation of rough- ness or crepitation. In hysterical affections of the hip, while there may be the typical attitude and rigidity of tuberculosis, pain and tenderness are exaggerated, the pains are more diffuse, the tender points vary from time to time, and there is no swell- ing ; when the attention of the patient is distracted it may be possible to elicit movement at the joint or to alter the attitude of the limb ; the patient's sleep is rarely disturbed, and the condition may be of long duration without any signs of progress towards destruction of the articular surfaces. Progress and Terminations. Prognosis.— The prognosis in hip disease is more serious than in tuberculosis of other joints, excepting only those of the spine. It is materially in- fluenced by the stage at which treatment is inaugurated, and by the care and perseverance with which it is carried out. While recovery may take place at any stage, and even in the most tmlikely cases, it becomes less likely the longer it has been left untreated. In the initial stage recovery may be attended with a certain range of movement; the capacity of flexing the thigh to a right angle is a great advantage. When the disease has advanced to the stage of destruction of the articular surfaces, the joint will be rigid or ankylosed, and its use to the patient will vary with the attitude of the limb and with the amount of shortening. The average shortening amounts to H-2 inches, but it may attain to as much as 6 inches or more. The formation of abscess, especially within the pelvis, is a serious complication in untreated cases. The prognosis is most unfavourable where there are serious lesions of the bones (sequestra) and multiple infected sinuses, especi- ally in adults who are the subjects of tuber- culosis elsewhere. Intercurrent disease and unfavourable hygienic surroinidings make re- covery, more difficult. The available statistics show that the mortality from hip disease varies from 10 per cent in cases of "dry" arthritis to 40 per cent in cases with abscess; the risks from abscess, however, have been much reduced in recent years. The causes of death include meningeal, pul- monary, and general tuberculosis, septic com- plications, and waxy degeneration. In cases which terminate fatally the average duration of the disease is l|-3 years. In cases which recover the duration varies indefinitely. Where there are bone lesions and septic sinuses the disease, which may have begun in childhood, may still be active after twenty years or more. It is a safe rule in practice to assume that even mild cases rarely recover in less than two years. The patient or his relatives should be informed of this, and also that they are not to expect recovery without some impairment of function, and that developments may occur which require more prolonged treatment or necessitate opera- tive interference. Treatment of Hip Disease.—As far as the local disease is concerned we know that a very large proportion of cases recover under conserva- tive treatment, and that the functional results are very much better than those following operative interference, so that unless there are special indications to the contrary conservative measures are always adopted. Conservative Treatment.—This consists in pro- tecting the limb from injurious strain or pressure and in preventing deformitj^ Absolute rest is imperative, and the patient must be confined to bed until the pain and tenderness have entirely disappeared and the sleep is undisturbed. Extension hy means of the iveight and pulley is of most service where there is pain, spasmodic contractions of muscles, rigidity of the joint, or a deformed attitude of the limb. Its object is to tire out the muscles and prevent the bones pressing injuriously against one another. The weight employed varies from 3-8 lbs. in children to 10-20 lbs. in adolescents and adults. It must be adjusted so as to meet the requirements of each case. If pain returns after having been relieved, the weight should be diminished or stopped for a time. If there is deformity the line of extension should be at first in the direc- tion of the deformity, and should then be gradually altered as the attitude approaches the normal. Flexion yields most readily. In