278 HYDROPATHY it is desired to stimulate the stomach to increased action and to wash out the system generally. It is more diffusible than cold water, and does not depress either by lowering temperature or by using vital force for the purpose of reheating the organism. Cold-water drinking sometimes stimulates the lower portions of the alimentary canal. Many invalids, with failure of digestive power, find that warm water taken with or just after food is less depressing than cold water. For the purpose of washing out the system, aiding the removal of tissue waste and the escape of the various toxines, water should be taken in the early morning, the next best time being one hour before the mid-day or evening- meals. Some gouty patients find a tumblerful of hot water at bed-time of great service. The dosage of water varies. Women, who as a rule take too little fliiid, except with food, have to commence with from four to six ounces. The subjects of gastric atony have also to take small doses at first. In other cases, especially in the gouty, a pint of hot water may be taken every morning fasting, the drinking being spread over ten or fifteen minutes. Nausea is some- times produced by drinking hot water. This may be got over by making the water hotter, or by adding a dessertspoonful of fresh lemon juice to each pint. This addition as a rule suits the gouty and dyspeptic—recent researches showing that it checks the formation of duodenal fer- ments and toxines. It has been alleged that the drinking of large quantities of water dilutes the blood unduly, but expert evidence is against this view, and shows that part of the excess of water quickly passes though the kidneys, the rest going to dilute the various fluids in the tissues. It is probable, however, that in marked gastric atony the fluid does not leave the stomach as quickly as it should, and so aggravates the morbid condition. Water-drinking causes marked diuresis, and urea, chlorides and phosphates are passed in increased quantities; the flow of the saliva, pancreatic fluid, and bile is augmented. External Uses of Water. — The physio- logical effects are very fully treated of in the article "Balneology," vol. i. p. 341, and the special effects of baths given in water containing various salts and gases are also dealt with in the same article. The hot bath, 96° to 110°, causes an increased flow of blood to the skin, the pulse is quickened, as is also the respiration. The skin becomes red and perspiration follows. The tef)id bath, 84° to 94°, has a calmative effect, and does not excite either the nervous system or the circulation. The cold bath, 50' to 60°, at first causes loss of supei-ficial temperature, increased capillary contraction, and an action on the central nervous .system through its peripheral branches. Then reaction takes place, followed by redness of skin, increase of temperature, and a certain amount of nervous excitement. The effects of all these baths depend upon the length of immersion. Average duration :—hot bath, 8 to 10 minutes; tepid bath, 10 to 60 minutes; cold bath, 3 to 10 minutes. Longer immersions in either hot or cold baths are often followed by marked depression. Hydropathic baths and methods consist of thermal and mechanical measures which stimu- late the whole body or parts thereof. These give rise to— (1) Raising or lowering of temperature. (2) Improved circulation through the peri- pheral vessels, lymph spaces and channels, and increased elimination of toxines. (3) More efficient oxidation. (4) Improvement in general vascular and nervous tone. Hydropathic Methods.—The chief measures employed are the following :— The Shower J^ath.—Tem-p. 100° to 60° or 50°. Duration, one to two minutes. The Needlehath or douche en cercle. — This consists of two curved horizontal pipes connected by a number of smaller vertical pipes. These vertical pipes are perforated with small apertures at intervals of an inch and a half, the result being that many forcible jets of water impinge simultaneously upon practically the whole body surface. Temp. 100° to 60° or 50°. Duration, one to three minutes. Douches.-—((f ) Ascending.—The jDatient sitting on a seat, like that of a water-closet, water is delivered vertically upwards through a |-inch nozzle, or through a small rose, so as to impinge upon or even enter the fundament. Temp. 100° to 60° or 50°. Duration, half to two minutes. {l>) Descending.—A stream of water from a 1 i-inch pipe is poured from above. The patient stands under this, moving slightly backwards and forwards to allow the water to pass down back and front of body. Temperature and duration as last bath. (c) Spinal.—A stream of water directed from 1^-inch pipe and played up and down the spine. Temperature and duration as last. {d) Scottish.—Alternate jets of water at tem- perature 100° and 50°, played upon the spine, changing six times in the minute. Duration, half to two minutes. (e) Aix Douche.—A combination of hot douche with massage. The patient sits on a short- backed wooden chair, the feet being covered with hot water, and a fixed spray at 98° plays upon the back and shoulders. Meanwhile the masseur, directing a stream of water from an open hose-pipe upon the part, rapidly manipu- lates the front of the body and afterwards the back. The proceeding may be varied by a