23 H^MATOPORPHYRINURIA ments. Nebelthau succeeded in precipitating the hsematoporphyrin by adding glacial acetic acid to the urine (5 c.c. acid to 100 c.c.) and allowing it to stand for 24-40 hours. Of the processes which are at work in the production of heematoporphyriiiuria, we know very little as yet. Stokvis found that when In sulphonal cases the immediate discontinu- ance of the drug is clearly indicated. Franz Mtiller attached much value to treatment with alkalies in his case, and a trial should certainly be given to this plan, which receives support from some experiments of Stokvis upon rabbits. Two cases which have come mider my observa- Spectra of Hsematoporiiliyrin.—1. Acid ; 2. Alkaline ; 3. Metallic. Kidphonal was administered to rabbits hsemato- porphyrin appeared in their urine. Kast and Weiss were not convinced that the pigment excreted under these circumstances was really of this nature, but Stokvis's observation has recently been confirmed by Otto Neubauer. Stokvis also found submucous hajmorrhages in the stomach of rabbits poisoned with sulphonal, which gave the spectrum of acid htemato- porphyrin, and he was inclined to attribute the ha3matoporphyrinuria to the action of the gastric juice aided by sulphonal upon the blood so extravasated. However, the records of post- mortem examinations in fatal cases of this condition lend little support to this theory, for although such hfemorrhagic areas have sometimes been found, their presence is by no means constant. Blood counts made in a number of cases have failed to show any very conspicuous or pro- gressive diminution of red corpuscles in associa- tion with the htematoporphyriuuria, and the evidence available points rather to a perversion of the ordinary chemical processes for the dis- posal of effete blood pigment than to excessive hfjemolysis as the cause of the phenomenon. It should be mentioned that in some instances the administration of trional has been followed by the passage of dark urine rich in urobilin, but without any marked excess of hiiematopor- phyrin. Urobilin is also usually present in considerable amount in the ordinary dark red urines. As to treatment little can at present be said. tion, in which alkalies were given, ran a favour- able course, but neither was orignally of a severe character. pluvialis. — The Haematopota clegg ] a parasite. Haennatorrhachis.—An effusion of blood around or between the spinal membranes. HsematOSalpinx. See Fallopian Tubes ; Menstruation and its Disorders ( Varietiesand Causes of Dysmenorrhoea); Uterus, Malformations of (^Retention of Menstrual Pro- ducts, Atresia of Vagina). HaematOSCOpe.—An instrument for observing the spectroscopic characters of the blood; hsematospectroscope. Hsematothorax.—An effusion of blood into the pleural cavity or cavities. Haematotrachelos. — Retention of menstrual blood in the cervix uteri. Haematoxyli Lignum.—The heart wood of a tree {IIa:matoxylon campechiamim) belonging to the Leguminosaj, and known as Logwood ; in Pharmacy, it is met with as reddish chips, with a pleasant odour and a sweetish and astringent taste; it contains tannic acid and hoimatoxylin (CjcHi^Og); it is used as an astring- ent in diarrhoea, but it is incompatible with lime water; the official preparation—the Decoctum Hajmatoxyli—is given in doses of ^ to 2 fl. oz. See also Astringents.