164 HEDONAL Hedona.1.—A derivative of lire thane, methyl-propyl-carbinol-urethan; used in doses of 15 to 45 grains as a hypnotic and analgesic ; it was discovered by Dreser in 1889; and it has been employed in insomnia, in chorea, and before the inhalation of chloroform (in order to lessen the amount of chloroform necessary to produce anaesthesia). Hedonism.—"Mental eccentricity char- acterised by the following of some special pursuit in an unreasoning manner " {Hack Tuke). Heel-Jerk.—The Achilles-tendon-phe- nomenon, elicited by tapping the tightly-stretched tendo Achillis. Hegrar'S Dilators.—A series of gradu- ated rubber (or metal) rods, used for dilating the cervix uteri. See Curettage ; GYNyECOLOGY, Diagnosis in [Cervical Dilators). Hegar'S Sigfn. — This sign of early pregnancy is elicited by bimanual examination of the uterus, two fingers of one hand being in the vagina and the other hand over the abdomen, or one finger being in the rectum and the thumb in the vagina; the marked softening of the lower uterine segment gives to the examining fingers the sensation as if the cervix and the body of the uterus were detached from each other. See Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Softening of the Lower Uterine Segment). Hehner's Formula.—A means of calculating the amount of fat in milk from the specific gravity and total solids. The formula is as follows: F = -86 TS - -22 G (F = fat, TS = total solids and G = specific gravity - 1000). Heig^ht and Weig^ht. See Children, Development of (Weight and Length); F(Etus AND Ovum, Development of (Length and Weight); Life Insurance (Height and Weight in Adidt). Helaiin. — Helalin is stated to be the active j^irinciple of Collinsonia canadensis; it possesses a sedative effect on mucous mem- brane, especially those of the urinary and gastro-intestinal tract (e.g. in cases of gonor- rhoea, cystitis, renal and biliary colic); the dose is 1 drachm of the concentrated solutions prepared by Messrs. Oppenheimer. HeICO-.—In compound words helco- (Gr. (Xkos, an ulcer) means relating to an ulcer; thus helcology means the science of the pathology of ulcers, helcosis ulceration, and helcostaphylorna ulcerative staphyloma. Helcosoma Tropicum.—A proto- zoon organism found in the Delhi sore by J. H. Wright of Boston (1904). Helen in.—A volatile oil (C^HgO), obtained by distillation from Elecampane root (Inula Helenium), and possessing antiseptic properties. Helensburgfh. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (Scottish). Heliotherapy.—The use of the sun's rays in the treatment of disease (e.g. in laryn- geal tuberculosis). Helix.—The outer border of the external ear (Gr. e'At^, a spiral) or any spiral structure ; helicoid means of a spiral form. Hellebore.—The Black Hellebore (Helle- borus niger) or Christmas Rose and the Green Hellebore (IlellehorxLS mridis) both contain crys- talline glucosides, named Helleborin (Cgi;H4.20,;) and Helleborein (^■2(^iS'-\') ' poisonous alkaloid veratrine (Cg^HjgNOjj) occurs in White Hellebore ( Veratrum album). See Toxicology (Alkaloids, Hellehore). Heller's Tests. See Urine, Patho- logical Changes in (Albumimiria); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Hemoglobinuria). Hellopia. See Balneology (Greece, Sul- phurous Thermal Springs). HelIyer's Trap.—A ventilating and in- tercepting trap used in drainage; there is also a grease-intercepting tank called " Hellyer's." Helmholtz Theory. Accommoda- tion (Theories, Helmholtz) ; Iris and Ciliary Bodies (Physiology, Mechanism for Accommoda- tion). Helminth.—An intestinal worm, helmin- thiasis being the condition of being invested by such worms. See Parasites (Helminths) ; Leucocytosis (Eosinophile). Helmitol. — The anhydro - methylene citrate of hexa-methylene-tetramine; it has been used as a urinary disinfectant and anti- septic in cases of gonorrhoea, cystitis, etc., in doses of 15 grains thrice daily; it has also been recommended in scarlet fever as a prophylactic to prevent renal complications; it contains urotropin. HelOUan-leS-BainS. See Balneology (Africa, Egypt) ; Mineral Waters (Sulphur Waters). Helvella Esculenta. See Toxi- cology (Food-Stuffs, Fungi). HemaboloidS.—A proprietary prepara- tion, described as containing a synthetically- prepared true organic iron compovmd, nutrient albuminoids, the hematinic principle of bone marrow, and nuclein; it is recommended (in doses of half an ounce after food) for the purpose of increasing the number of red cells in the blood and the percentage of hsemoglobin.