96 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM or indirect violence must also be admitted as a possible, although, under normal circumstances, most unlikely cause of valvular deficiency. Morbid Anatomy.—A clear comprehension of the gross lesions affecting the valves of the heart will do much to simplify the clinical manifesta- tions, and to elucidate the consequences and associated changes of valvular disease. As already indicated, the valves of the left chamber of the heart are most commonly affected. It is usually only in foetal and infective endo- carditis that the right side is alone involved. In simple as well as in malignant endocarditis both sides of the heart may suffer, but even then the involvement of the left is usually most extensive. Double auriculo-ventricular stenosis is not very rare, but when met with the left- sided lesion is always far in advance of that of the right. The valves may suffer primarily, or become impaired only secondarily. The exact mechanical deficiency predominant may be more or less of an accident pathologically speaking, and between the huge orifice of a highly incompetent mitral orifice and the chink-like lumen of an extreme stenosis almost every gradation may occur. Stenosis of an orifice is produced by the thickening and contraction of the valve seg- ments, by their adherence to each other, to the thickening, shortening, and fusion of adjacent chordcC tendinese, by deposition of lime salts in the structure of the valve increasing its rigidity, preventing close apposition of seg- ments, and forming a narrow yet possibly ever open door. Occasionally aneurysmal dilatation of the valves also produces some degree of obstruc- tion, but this is not so frequently the case as in acute endocarditis, and the condition is rather a pathological curiosity than a fact of practical importance. Incompetence may arise from defects in the valves themselves such as above indicated, or may be secondary to deficient systolic narrowing of the orifice because of muscle failure; or in- efficiency of contraction of the musculi papillares may interfere with the control normally given to the valves by the chordae tendinea^. Indeed, in considering mitral lesions it is impossible to eliminate the effects of associated muscle failure from the causes at work in the production of the valvular incompetence. Morbid Histologij.—The essential features of chronic disease of the valves consist in the pro- duction of a fibrous cicatricial-like tissue, in which calcareous salts are peculiarly prone to be deposited. Consetluencex and Associated Changes.—The effects of valvular disease may be divided into (i.) intra-cardiac and (ii.) extra-cardiac. It is only necessary to mention them here as they are referred to elsewhere. 1. Alteration in the size, weight, shape, and relative proportions of the different parts of the heart. 2. Extension of sclerosis to the adjacent endo- cardium and formation of localised thickeninos and irregularities. 3. In some instances diminished blood-supply, with consequent ana;mia and impaired nutrition. 4. Disturbances of the pulmonary circulation. 5. Distension of the venso cavae and their tributaries. 6. Intra-cardiac clotting with formation of cardiac thrombi. 7. Formation of emboli. 8. Htemorrhage from simple engorgement of vessels apart from embolism. 9. Dropsy. 10. Blood-changes. Affections op the Aortic Valves and Orifice Aortic disease dependent on valvular lesion may occur: 1. By primary involvement. (i.) Of acute development, (a) External violence. {b) Rupture. (c) Malignant endocarditis, (ii.) Of slow development. (a) Maldevelopment. (b) Chronic valvular endocarditis. (c) Degradation processes. 2. By secondary involvement. (i.) Of acute development. (a) Extension of acute aortitis. {b) Extension of malignant endo- carditis, (ii.) Of slow development. (a) Extension of chronic aortitis. (6) Extension of chronic endo- carditis. Etiology.—Disease of the aortic region of the heart impairing the efficiency of the valves is essentially an affection of adult men, although, of course, it is not infrequently met with in young subjects of both sexes in the form of an infective endocarditis, or as a consequence of a rheumatic affection. It is the aortic valves which are most markedly exposed to and deteriorated by the stress and strain of excessive or unregulated physical exertion. Under such circumstances disease of the aorta has generally preceded the crippling of the valve segments, and having accomplished their incompetence by causing dilatation of the vessel by virtue of impaii'ing its elasticity, and throwing strain upon it during the ventricular systole. A rheumatic affection of the aortic valves is usually met with in association with involvement of the mitral segments, but in a certain number of instances the aortic valves are the only ones seriously impaired. In the pro- duction of the crippling sclerosis which accounts