HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF •220 of the hip-joint situated as is seen in Fig. 1, at the insertion of the ilio-psoas tendon, l)etween the vastus extenms and the gluteus maximus, and between the gluteus medius and minimus. Fk;. 1.—Front view oC the Hiji-Joint. 1. Ilium; 2. Femur; 3. Pubis; 4. Tlie thyroid or obturator foramen ; ."i. Poupart's ligament; 6, 7, 7', f>, and 9. The capsular lii;anient of the liip, divisible into ;—0. The inner branch or fasciculus of the ilio-femoral, or Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow ; 7. The outer branch or fasciculus of the Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow; 7'. The intermediate portion of the capsular ligament; S and 9. The upper Iiorlions of the capsular ligament; 10. The bursa lying between the ilio-psoas and the capsule of tlie .joint; 11. The straight head of the rectus femoris cut short; I'l. The bursa separating the vastus extenius (13) from the gluteus maximus (13'); 14. The tendon of the ilio-psoas cut short; 15. The bursa lying between the ilio-psoas tendon and the lesser trochanter; 16. A small bursa is also shown lying between the insertions of the gluteus medius (17) ami minimus (IS). (Copied from Testut's 'I'raiU d'Anatomie Immaine.) I have seen them all enlarged in different persons chiefly as a result of tuberculous disease or osteoarthritis. Sprained Hip.—Sprains of the hip are gener- ally the result of sudden extension of the thigh combined with abduction, and are rarely caused by forced flexion. They affect the hip in more than one way. Sometimes a few fibres of the pectineus, the adductor brevis, or the adductor longus muscles are torn: in other cases the capsular ligament is wrenched and a little synovitis ensues: whilst in others, again, the ligamentuni teres with the fatty tissue at its base is said to be nipped beneath the transverse liga- ment of the joint. The latter accident happens when a patient slips with the thigh forcibly abducted and at the same time slightly flexed. The thigh becomes everted, abducted, and apparently lengthened, whilst its move- ments are greatly hampered by the reflex spasm of the surrounding muscles. Flexion followed by rapid extension of the hip sets free the liga- mentuni teres and restores immediate use to the limb, which should then be kept at rest for a few days. Partial rnpture of the muscles and slight inflammation of the synovial membrane are usually amenable to rest in healthy people, but in unhealthy persons they often give rise to much trouble. There may be lameness without any impair- ment of movement in the joint, perhaps from a little interstitial myositis or from slight teiio - synovitis after partial rupture of the muscles or injury to the tendons and their sheaths, or if the syno- vitis of the hip has been plastic rather than serous, it may have caused local adhe- sions and thickening of the capsule. These conditions often lead the patient into the hands of the bone-setter, who rightly believes the mis- chief to be outside rather than inside the joint when there is an absence of pain on direct pressure over the part, or when shocks are impressed upon the heel, particularly if pain is felt upon using the for the body and when it stooping forwards. Passive the breaking down of the or without an aiifesthetic, some of these cases, heel as a pivot is produced by movements and adhesions, with are of great service in especially if the surgeon take care to fix any painful spot by pressing his thumb upon it at