HICCOUGH 217 excess of alcohol, and the different forms of dyspepsia, are among the more common causes. It is also frequently associated with peritonitis, cardiac faihire, urajmia, and other acute diseases, as typhoid fever, pneumonia, and pleurisy. Hichardson has suggested that its presence in acute diseases is frequently due to the alcohol which is prescribed. Tobacco smoking occa- sionally appears to be a cause. In an obstinate case recorded by Stevenson large caseous masses were found after death at the root of each lung, which it was thought might have involved the phrenic or vagus nerves. In chronic cases recurrences are sometimes prone to take place at the menstrual periods. Hiccough occasionally occurs as a true neurosis independently of any definite cause. In a case recorded by Ottoni, a patient, after suffering for some years from hysteria, suddenly became subject to the most obstinate hiccup, which, at the time the case was reported, had existed for thirty-four months, with rare intervals of ease, and it was always found that any temporary amendment was followed by redoubled severity. Liveing mentions instances where the hiccup appeared to bear some relation to epileptic fits, attacks apparently occurring in place of a fit. Symptoms.—The symptoms of hiccup are too well known to need any detailed description : the sudden inspiration, accompanied by the characteristic sound, is familiar to every one. Usually an attack causes only a slight tempo- rary inconvenience, and either passes off spon- taneously or is cured by some simple remedy. Occasionally, however, the condition is most obstinate, and the exhaustion produced by the constant repetition of the muscular efforts and want of rest becomes very serious, especially if the patient has already been weakened by existing disease. The length of time the sym- ptoms last, and their severity, are very various. A case recorded by Foot gives a good idea of the severity of the symptoms which can occur. The patient, a boy aged 15, hiccoughed inces- santly, except when he was asleep, for twenty- six weeks. The onset of the attack was quite sudden, and he had previously had two other but much less severe attacks. The rate of hiccough was calculated on thirteen different occasions in this case. It varied from 8 to 22 per minute, and from 480 to 1320 per hour, the average being 14 per minute, or 840 per hour. The significance of hiccough varies with its cause. Most commonly it signifies a slight diges- tive disturbance, and is of no importance. When it occurs during acute diseases it is usually a grave omen, especially in cases of peritonitis. Treatment. — Ordinary attacks of hiccough either soon pass off spontaneously, or are readily amenable to some of the familiar remedies, such as holding the breath, sipping a glass of water, or taking several deep respirations at regular intervals. In cases which do not readily pass off, a draught containing aromatic spirits of ammonia or warm applications to the abdomen may be tried, or, if the stomach is obviously overloaded, an emetic may give the desired relief. The more obstinate cases, unfortunately, often fail to yield to any of these remedies, and it would appear from records that no one drug can be relied upon in any given case. Among the preparations which seem to have been most successful in curing the complaint, nitro-glj'- cerine, ether, turpentine, and li(][uid extract of ergot may be mentioned. Most observers are agreed that morphia exercises but little influence in checking the condition. Foot's case, which has already been referred to, recovered on pills of iodoform, extr. of Indian hemp, and extr. of conium. Under this treatment the hiccough diminished and finally ceased. Mechanical measures, such as blisters over the origin of the phrenic nerve and pressure upon its trunk at the root of the neck, and depression and traction of the tongue, have been practised, and the last- named method appears to have been successful in several cases which had failed to yield to medicinal treatment. Hidroa.denitis. See Hydroacenitis. HidrOCystOma. See Hydrocystoma. Hig^h-Frequency Currents. See X-Rays and High-Fkequexcy Currents. Hig^hmore, Antrum of. See Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Anatomy, Maxillary Sinus). Hig^hmori, Corpus.—The incomplete septum formed in the testicle by prolongations from the tunica albuginea into its substance. See Physiology, Reproduction {Testis, Support- ing Frameworli). Hig'h-Tension Pulse. See Physi OLOGY, Circulation {Arterial Pulse, Tension); Pulse {Interpretation of the Spkyr/inor/ram ). Hill-Barnard Sphyg^mometer. See Pulse (Measurement of Arterial Pressure in Man). Hill Diarrhoea. See Sprue and Hill Diarrhea {Hill Diarrhoea). Hilton's Method. See Suppuration {Acute Circumscribed Abscess, Treatment, Opera- tive). Hilum.—The part of an organ at which the vessels and nerves enter, e.g. the hilum of the spleen {hilum lienis), of the liver {hilum hepatis), or of the ovary {hilum ovarii). Himrod's " Cure."—A powder, the fumes of which, when burning, are recommended for the rehef of asthma. See Cannabis Indica ; Lobelia ; Stramonium.