HERNIA 210 and internal to the anterior superior spine, and ending at the centre of the external abdominal ring. The incision exposes the tendon of the external oblique muscle, which is split, in the direction of its fibres, from the ring upwards for about 1^ inch. The sac is now sought for among the struc- tures of the cord. If the hernia has never presented at the external ring this may be a matter attended with some difficulty, but a little patient clearing of the cord will usually ', suffice to expose the sac, which is then gently and carefully i.solated up to the internal ab- dominal ring. The sac is now opened, the intestine or other viscus replaced within the abdomen, and the omentum, if present, removed. • The sac is tied at the internal ring after trans- [ fixion and removed ; or the sac is removed, and the cut edges of the parietal peritoneum at the neck stitched by interrupted or continuous sutures. The cord is then gently lifted from its bed, and held up by blunt hooks. Sutures, three, four, or five in number, are introduced through Poupart's ligament on the outer side, and on the inner through the arching fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis, the transversalis fascia, the conjoined tendon, and, if neeessai-y, the sheath of the rectus also. The sutures are passed \xnderneath the cord; when tied and cut short the cord is laid upon them. Finally the cut edges of the aponeurosis of the external oblique are united over the cord by a continuous suture, and the skin wound is closed. A drainage tube is not necessary. If, on laying open the canal, the veins of the cord are found to be varicose, they should be excised. At times the fat lying along the cord, continuous Fio. IC..—Transplantation of the i'ectn.s nuisele. (Blooilgood.) above with the subperitoneal fat, is greatly increased in bulk, forming a definite lipoma whicli must be removed. Under all circum- stances the cord should be handled with care and gentleness; a rough and hasty stripping and tearing of the sac may lead to inflammatory trouble in the wound or in the testis. If the cord is found to be so thick that the aperture left for its passage through the ab- dominal wall might tend to induce a fresh descent of the hernia, the cord may be split into two equal portions, the outer one being placed outside the upper stitch, and the inner between that stitch and the next. If the cord is turgid with veins which are not varicose this method of splitting is preferable to the excision of the veins, for experience has abundantly shown that the latter procedure is one not seldom attended by an attack of acute or sub- acute orchitis, which may, itself, be followed by a gradual withering of the testis. When a recurrence of the hernia takes place after this operation it is generally found at one of two points, at the internal abdominal ring or at the inner and lower portion of the external abdominal ring. When at the former point it is most probably due to the bulky thickening of the cord, and may be prevented by the splitting of that structure in the manner just described. When at the latter point it is almost certainly due to the weakness of the conjoined tendon, a weakness which, as I have already mentioned, is very freqvient. In order to strengthen the abdominal wall at this point the following device is useful. Before introducing any of the sutures, the sheath of the rectus muscle is opened by an incision along the outer side in the direction of the length of the fibres. The muscular bundles of the rectus are then in- cluded in the two or three innermost stitches. On tightening these stitches the muscular fibres are brought into close approximation with Poupart's ligament, and the inner end of the gap in the abdominal wall is thereby consider- ably strengthened. This so-called " transplanta- tion of the rectus" was first suggested by Wofler in 1892, but his paper has not received general recognition. Though I have practised this method for over two years I was myself unaware of Wofler's article until I saw it quoted in Bloodgood's recent work. Hal steel's Operation. — After exposing the arching fibres of the internal oblique, as in Bassini's operation, the free lower border of this muscle is caught with two artery clamjjs, placed 1 cm. apart, and the muscle cut between them for a distance of 3-4 cm., at right angles to the nuiscular bundles. The division of the muscle is made as far from the linea semihniaris as possible. The cord is brought out through the incision in the internal oblique and is made subcutaneous. Five Mattrass stitches, as a rule, are inti-oduced, passing through the aponeurosis of the external olilique, the internal oblique, transversalis nniscle and fascia on the one side, and through the transversalis fascia, J'oupart's