551 INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF the obstruction localised in the small or the large intestine. Supposing the small intestine to be affected, and a pale and contracted loop, which points certainly to bowel below the ob- struction, be found, it should be drawn forward and followed inch by inch until it guides to the seat of obstruction or to its termination in the ileum. In the latter case a journey will have to be made in the opposite direction, and this leads to the obstruction. Each portion of the bowel is carefully returned to the abdomen or protected by hot towels as it is passed through the fingers. The third point to be attended to in the operation, of finding the obstruction with as little disturbance or handling of the distended and friable intestine as possible, has now been achieved. If the obstruction is not readily discovered in this way the abdominal incision should be pro- longed to just above the pubis, taking care to see and to avoid the bladder, and the exposed intestines are to be covered with aseptic towels wrung out of hot normal saline solution. Any uncovered portion of intestine should be kept hot and moist by an assistant steadily dripping- hot saline solution to 1 pint) over it and the surrounding coils and protecting towels from a jug during the whole time of exposure. Commencing on the right side, the condition of the caecum, dilated if the obstruction is below it, will tell whether the obstruction be in the large or in the small intestine. If it is in the small in- testine the contracted end of the ileum entering the csecvnii may be followed up to its junction with the distended bowel above, and so discover the site of obstruction. If the obstruction be localised in the large intestine, recognised by its longitudinal bands, the sigmoid flexure is first drawn up for ex- amination, and if this be vascular and distended the obstruction will be found towards its lower end. If not, the transverse colon should be brought forward by drawing on the omentum, on the under surface of which this portion of bowel will be found ; finally, the ascending colon and cajcum are examined. As a last resource, by an extension of the abdominal incision to the ensiform cartilage and evisceration, any obstruction can certainly be found. Evisceration adds greatly to the gravity of the operation, and should only be undertaken in vigorous siibjects not reduced by long illness. It is to be preferred to rough handling of the distended and friable intestine, but, as a rule, the best proceeding at this stage is to draw out and to open a coil of tense intestine, for in any case the distended intestine must not be replaced in the abdomen. The most tense intestinal coil visible should be drawn forward well out of the abdomen, the opening into which should be isolated with aseptic gauze packs. When the extruded coil is thoroughly shut off from con- tact with the wound, it is opened by a longi- tudinal incision about half an inch long through the wall opposite to its mesentery, and the intestine is allowed to empty itself. If it does so without help, pumping out its contents vigorously, and the general condition of the patient is fair, after temporarily closing the intestinal opening with clamp forceps, a further search for the cause of the obstruction should be made, and this is rendered more easy by the diminished abdominal tension. If the ob- struction is now discovered, and can be relieved, after careful suture and cleansing of the in- testinal wound, the abdomen may be entirely closed. If, however, the intestine, though obviously distended and tense, refuses to empty itself without aid, and if, after a pinch between the finger and thumb, no peristaltic movement is seen in it, enterostomy offers the best chance of recovery, for if the paretic intestine is sub- jected to further manipulation neither it nor the patient is likely to recover. If the obstruction is found to be an intus- susception, and if it is acute, and the intussus- ception is swollen and firmly strangulated, and there are no adhesions, the surgeon's first duty is to lessen the oedematous swelling of the intussusceptum which is the chief barrier to reduction. The tumour is to be drawn forwards, wrapped in a large, warm, flat aseptic sponge, and gently but firmly squeezed by gripping it in the hand. The pressure must be continued till the swelling has subsided, then an attempt should be made to reduce the intussusception. This is done best by a combination of kneading from below and gentle traction from above, most reliance being placed on pushing from below, as it is easy to tear the intestine by drawing on it too freely. Adhesions may pre- vent reduction. These can be separated by a blunt director introduced between the ensheath- ing layer and the intussuscepted portion of bowel. If it is not possible to effect reduction, and the intussusception is of limited size, the best course is to excise the whole of the involved intestine. The abdominal cavity all round the intussusception is packed off with aseptic gauze, and the portion of intestine to be excised is completely isolated by this means. Two pairs of clamp forceps are fixed above the involved portion of intestine and two below. The in- testine is divided between the two clamps above and below, and the intussusception is isolated. Then by gradually snipping through the mesen- tery with scissors, each vessel being secured before division if large, and caught as divided if small, the mass is separated. After liga''ui"e of the clamped mesenteric vessels and the arrest of all bleeding, the treatment of the divided intestine has to be decided upon. This depends upon the condition of the patient. If it is good, the continuity of the intestinal canal must be restored by an end-to-end or lateral