HAY FEVER 53 daughters who suffer from hay fever; a third daughter suffers from paroxysmal sneezing all the year round, although she does not have hay fever; one son suffers severely from hay fever, and another from nasal asthma—that is to say, bronchial spasmodic asthma cured by intra-nasal treatment. All these cases presented abnormal conditions of the nose. Sajous maintains that in 35 per cent of all his cases there was well- marked evidence of heredity, and that 42 per cent had asthmatic relatives. Next we find also that class has much to do with the tendency to sneeze—the educated classes being much more prone to the affection than the uneducated. Mackenzie said he never had a case among his hospital cases ; but the hospital class is becoming better educated and more neurotic every day, and we certainly now find among them a fair proportion of hay fever cases. Then town- diuellers are more prone to it than country gentlemen, though I have seen several instances of it among the latter with apparently normal nerves and plenty of good blood. Sex, too, makes a difference, men, it is said, being more prone to the affection than women. Among other causes of predisposition, the long existence of catarrhal conditions renders patients more sensitive to those forms of irritation which occur in the summer. Of the direct sources of irrita- tive attack of course the pollen of grasses, espe- cially of rye-grass, is the most common, begin- ning to harass its victims about the first week in June, often much earlier, according to the degree of advance of the season. Some begin sneezing so early in spring that one is com- pelled to accuse the catkins ; while the ragweed, which is confined to America, does not begin its attack until the autumn. Other patients are sensitive to nothing but roses. While the hay- fields are the misery of most patients, less com- monly the moors and heather will make some men suffer when they go grouse - shooting. Others begin sneezing when exposed to the bright sunlight at sea, though the latter gives immunity to many who suffer from vegetable sources of irritation. There is a plant in Australia which induces sneezing; it flourishes in the spring, about September, and I believe it is commonly known as the cape - weed. It covers the hills around Adelaide to the height of some thousand feet or so. It is a composite, and the pollen is so profuse that after driving for two or three miles in the country the sides of the carriage will be covered with its yellow dust. I am told that most of the population of Adelaide are affected with hay fever during the time of the blossoming. Certain other people, again, only suffer from animal sources of irrita- tion. One patient tells me she always sneezes when a cat comes into the room ; and I know- several who suffer from sneezing when in contact with horses. The symptoms usually begin with a violent paroxysm of sneezing on waking early in the morning, sometimes supervening suddenly and sometimes more gradually. Occasionally, for many days before it actually begins, the patient will experience a feeling of irritation about the inner canthus of the eye, which he is compelled to rub continuously, or an itching about the alse of the nose. In one of my patients the earliest symptom is a coldness and pallor of the nose, which, though it is warm sunny weather, he has to rub to restore the circulation. Some- times the sneezing will last only for a few minutes, sometimes for many hours, and it is always accompanied by a profuse flow of watery mucus from the nose. A patient will some- times assert that he saturates a couple of towels in the space of half an hour, after which he is naturally quite exhausted; indeed the collapse that sometimes follows is very distressing. Seldom are patients seen in greater misery than those suffering from hay fever—^strong men be- come anaemic wrecks after six or eight weeks of the malady, which time is the ordinary dura- tion, although many patients remain prostrate for as long a period after the symptoms have subsided. Of course if they go out of doors during these weeks the symptoms become ag- gravated, especially if there is wind and sim; so that they have to protect themselves in a very extraordinary way—with thick veils of gossamer over their faces, blue spectacles, and green umbrellas ! Some of these patients suffer from more or less sneezing all the year round, these being especially cases where the continual attacks of hay fever have induced actual hyper- trophy of the inferior turbinated bodies. Some- times a patient is found who is sensitive to every source of irritation, not only to pollen in its various forms, but to emanations from animals. They suffer continually from dust; they cannot take a book from the bookshelves for fear of provoking sneezing ; they dare not go near a feather bed or into a room after it has been dusted; and so on. The slightest changes of temperature will cause some swelling of their Schneiderian, adjacent surfaces will come into contact, and thus may the same train of sym- ptoms arise even without the introduction of any irritating substances. Usually the asthma of hay fever patients is a later symptom; the sneezing has persisted for ten days to three weeks before it begins, and sometimes the nose-symptoms abate when the asthma is fairly established. This probably occurs as soon as the swelling in the nose be- comes so pronounced that nasal respiration is no longer possible, the bronchi themselves be- coming thereby more exposed to the pollen, etc. Yet I must confess that many patients suffer from asthma alone without any sneezing sym- ptoms at all; and it seems to me that these are more often cases of permanent obstruction to the nasal respiration.