IMMUNITY 363 Units Units toxin. antitoxin. 250,000 + 250,000 = 0 + 225,000 = Mild disease. + 200,000 =• Death in 4 to 9 days. + 150,000 = Death in 2i to 4 days. + 125,000 = Death in 1^ to 2^ days. + 100,000 = Death without delay. Thus in the fourth experiment 100,000 units of toxin were reckoned as being in excess. Their })hysiological action, however, ,is vierely equivalent to that of 15 units of free toxin, and to com- pensate the toxic effect of mixture No. 4, and to render it neutral again, there are not 15 units of antitoxin but 100,000 units required. The inference is that in a concentrated sohi- tion a unit of antitoxin may sometimes combine loosely with more than one unit of toxin, so that the latter's toxic action is greatly diminished. This too is the real cause of the results experi- mentally obtained by Buchner, who, as already noted, found that a mixture of tetanus antitoxin and toxin which is almost neutral for a mouse, can produce fatal effects in guinea-pigs. The loosely combined portion of the toxin has an action which varies in degree according to the specific susceptibility to toxin of the different animal species. The exact nature of the com- bination between antitoxin and toxin is still unknown, but the fact that there is a combina- tion cannot be doubted. The antagonistic effect of antitoxin on toxin is due to this combination, which is therefore one of the most important facts in the realm of immunity. Another no less important question is that of the nature and origin of antitoxins. Behring considers them to be products of the animal body, formed in consequence of the feverish reaction attending injection of toxic filtrates. This, however, is not invariably so, for, accord- ing to Metschnikoff, the crocodile (Alligator Mississippiensis) is distinguished from all other animals by the rapidity in the formation of anti- toxin, although there is no feverish reaction. Twenty-four hours after the injection of tetanus toxin and six days after the introduction of cholera toxin in solution, the alligator's blood becomes antitoxic to these poisons to which it is very insusceptible. Yet, when full-grown alli- gators are contrasted with young crocodiles and turtles, it is remarkable that both the latter form antitoxins very slowly if at all, and are yet very insusceptible to tetanus toxin, and can stand enormous doses of it. Ehrlich has recently furnished, by means of his "side-chain theory," a definite and in many respects a very instructive explanation. Accord- ing to this theory the general action of toxins is as follows :—Each molecule of toxin possesses two different chemical groups; one is " hapto- phorous," and by means of this the toxin becomes firmly bound to any cell protoplasm of the organism for which it has a chemical affinity, and a "toxophorous" group by which disturbance is then induced in the protoplasm in question. The toxin does not become bound to the "func- tional centre " of the cell protoplasm, but to a side chain of the latter. Hence the name of the theory. If the action of the toxophorous group of toxin molecules causes disturbance in the cell protoplasm, and if certain side-chains are consequently destroyed, the latter, it is said, are re-formed by the regenerative efforts of the organism. If this process be of considerable intensity, there may be excessive production of side-chains, the excess is transferred to the blood, and possessing, as already mentioned, a chemical affinity for the haptophorous group of the given specific toxin, acts as antitoxin. This ingenious theory explains in a relatively simple way the remarkable fact that the organism responds to the introduction of toxin by the formation of a specific antitoxin. The supposition that the action of toxin in the body is dependent on the chemical affinity of toxin for definite cell proto- plasm is undoubtedly correct. The theory, how- ever, is open to hostile criticism {vide infra). Another theory, held by Buchner and Metsch- nikoff, is that antitoxins represent in general non-poisonous modifications of toxins, which are elaborated by certain cellular elements of the body and transferred to the blood. Space forbids a detailed account of the facts on which this view is founded, but it may be said that this view harmonises better than does the side-chain theory with recent observations which indicate that the organism reacts with the formation of antitoxin, not only after the introduction of bacterial toxins, but that it reacts similarly on the introduction of the red blood corpuscles of any other species of animal, forming a specific anti-substance which passes into the blood; the same occurs on the introduction of foreign epi- thelium, leucocytes, spermatozoa, etc. The elaboration of anti-substances must therefore be regarded as a universal mode of reaction against foreign cells and their products, and not merely against toxins. 4. Transference of Antitoxin hy Inheritance and Suckling. {Milk.)—Ehrlich showed that in mice rendered tolerant of ricin or abrin the immunity is transmitted to the offspring from the mother, but not from the father, and he found that this tolerance of poison is only in part transferred from the mother's servim, but is mainly due to a subsequent transference of antitoxins by means of suckling. He proved this fact by the " exchange or wet-nurse experi- ment," in which the newly-born offspring of a highly-immunised mouse and that of a control mouse were respectively suckled by the different mothers. The offspring of the highly-immunised mouse, on being suckled by a normal control animal, possessed only a very slight degree of immunity after twenty-one days, in consequence of the excretion of the antitoxins originally in- herited from the mother, whilst the immunised