IDEA 341 Idea,.—A concept or "mental representa- tion of an object of sense." Chase-ideas are those which pass rapidly through the brain, which are easily produced, and which make but a slight impression. Fixed-idea is a form of monomania, in which the patient's conduct and thoughts are all under the influence of one idea. Ideational Insanity.—A form of insanity characterised specially by perversion of the reasoning powers. Identification. See Anthropometry ; Medicine, Forensic {Identity). IdiOCtOnia.—Suicide (Gr. tStos, personal, and KTovos, murder). Idiocy. See Mental Deficiency. See also Adolescent Insanity [Significance]; Brain, Atrophy, Hypertrophy, Cysts, etc. ; Children, Development of [Development of Special Senses, Hearing, etc.); Deafmutism ; Hydrocephalus [Symptoms); Paralysis [Cerebral Diplegia). Idiopathic.—A primary morbid state is called idiopathic when it is regarded as arising by itself in the part affected ; it is opposed to a symptomatic malady or one dependent upon an- other disease elsewhere. See Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease ; Muscles, Diseases of [Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis [Idiopathic or Cryptogenic). I d i OSy n C rasy. A peculiarity, especially a susceptibility to be markedly influenced by certain morbid agencies or medicinal prepara- tions. Idiot and Idiotism. See Idiocy; Mental Deficiency. Ignipuncture.—Puncturing a part or organ of the body [e.g. the cervix uteri) with the cautery. Ikao. See Balneology [Japan). Ikaria. See Balneology [Greece). Ikota.—A hysterical condition or form of religious insanity occurring in Siberia. IleO-.—In compound words ileo- means relating to the ileum or the third part of the small intestine. lleO-CSecal Regrion. Appendicitis [Anatomy); Typhoid Fever [Symptoms). lleo-COlitiS.—Inflammation (enteritis) of ileum and colon. See Gastro-Intestinal Dis- orders of Infancy [Inflammatory Diarrhoea). I leo - colostomy. — The making (by operation) of an artifical communication between the ileum and the colon. 11eO- i I eOStomy. —The making (by opera- tion) of an artificial communication between two parts of the ileum. Ileus. See Intestines, Surgical Affec- tions [Intestinal Obstruction). I If racom be. See Therapeutics, Health Eesorts [English, Devon). Iliac.—Relating to the ilium, e.g. iliac fossa, iliac region, etc. Iliacus Muscle. See Spine, Surgical Affections of [Neuroses of Lumbar Plexus). IliO-.—In compound words ilio- means re- lating to the iliac bone, e.g. ilio-femoral, ilio- inguinal, ilio-pectineal, ilio-trochanteric, etc. Ilkley. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts [English, Yorkshire). Illegitimacy. — In vital statistics the proportion of illegitimate births has a marked influence upon infantile mortality; where the illegitimate births are numerous the infantile deaths are greatly increased; in this country it is stated that the fall in the illegitimate birth- rate of recent years is greater than that of the legitimate birth-rate. Illumination Test. See Nose, Ac- cessory Sinuses, Inflammation of [Diagnosis, Illumination Test). Illusion.—The "false interpretation of a sensation actually perceived," or " erroneous mental conception of an external object per- ceived by one of the senses." See Alcoholism [Chronic, Clinical Features); Physiology, Senses (Vision, Optical Illusions). Imbecility. See Mental Deficiency. See also Alcoholic Insanity [Dementia); Brain, Affections of Blood - Vessels [Anaemia, Re- sults) ; Brain, Inflammations [Acute Encepha- litis, Clinical Features, Sequelae); Cretinism ; Head [Shape in Mongolian Imbecility). Imitation. See Chorea [Etiology). Immig'ration.—in vital statistics much immigration favours an actual increase of popu- lation ; and when conjoined with the natural increase (as shown by a high birth-rate and a low death-rate) will greatly favour it [e.g. in the United States of America). See Vital Statistics [Population). Immorality. See Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms [Insane Diathesis, Degeneracy); Vice [Medical Aspects of).