INFANT FEEDING 398 Human Milk — Proteids— Lactalbumin, 1"4 } ' ' ' ^ ^ ^'^^ "^^^^ Fat 3-5 „ Sugar 7-0 It is necessary, therefore, not merely to dilute the cow's milk in order to reduce the percentage of proteids, but also to add fat and sugar in order to bring the proportion of these up to the standard of human milk. Addition of Fat.—-The supply of a proper proportion of fat is a matter of the greatest importance in the feeding of infants. One of the commonest faults in infant feeding at the present time is the use of food containing too little fat, and many cases of chronic constipa- tion, failure of nutrition, and rickets are due to this deficiency. Taking human milk as the standard, one would say that 3-4 per cent is the proper proportion, and although some infants will make satisfactory progress on less than this, it seems probable that 3 per cent is the minimum which should be allowed; certainly a proportion of fat below 2 per cent at any period during the first year of life is often asso- ciated with some disorder of nutrition. If cream containing a known percentage of fat can be obtained it is a simple matter to correct the deficiency of fat in the milk. In towns where centrifugal machines are used in the separation of cream, it may be possible to obtain cream which contains a fairly constant average percentage of fat. Observations by the writer showed that fresh cream, as supplied by London dairies, contains on the average about 48 per cent of fat; but even such cream showed considerable variation (36-8-54 per cent) in its proportion of fat, and it is much to be desired tliat a standardised cream should be more generally obtainable. If the cream used con- tains 48 per cent fat, it is evident that one teaspoonful in a three-ounce feed will raise the fat 2 per cent; so that if used with a three- ounce mixture of equal parts of cow's milk and water, it will raise the proportion of fat from 1'75 to 3'75 per cent. Any desired percentage of fat can be obtained by similar calculation. Cream is the upper portion of milk into which the fat globules have risen either (1) by gravity, that is, the milk has been allowed to stand until more or less of the fat has risen to the top, which has then been skimmed off as "cream," or (2) by centrifugalisation. The other constituents of milk remain practically unaltered, both in quality and quantity in the cream, and therefore, to be strictly accurate, it would be necessary to take into account the proteids and sugar of cream when we add it to the infant's food ; for practical purposes, how- ever, the quantity of the centrifugalised cream used is so small that in most cases the relatively minute proportion of those other constituents can be neglected, and only the fat in the cream needs to be considered. Perhaps the simplest way to obtain a stand- ardised cream is to prepare it at home by allowing a quart of milk to stand for three hours in a cool place, in a glass water-bottle such as can be obtained from any scientific instrument maker for three or four shillings, with a tap near the bottom of the vessel. After the milk has stood for three hours the lower portion is drawn off, and can be used as skimmed milk for domestic purposes, the upper part into which the fat has risen, the cream, is used for the infant. The percentages of fat thus obtained can be seen from the following table; they are only averages, for, as already mentioned, the rate at which fat rises depends on several varying factors; but these figures are suffi- ciently accurate for practical purposes, they were obtained with average London milk :— Quantity of Upper Milk (Cream) from each quart of milk. Proportion of Fat. One pint . . . . . 5"5 per cent Fifteen ounces . . . . 6"5 ,, Ten ounces . . . .8 ,, Five ounces . . . .11 ,, Such top-milk or cream can be used either as an addition to a mixture of milk and water to increase the fat, or more simply with direct dilution with water. Thus the addition of a tablespoonful of the 11 per cent cream to a three-ounce mixture of equal parts of milk and water, will raise the fat percentage from 1'75 to about 3'2 ; or the dilution of one part of this 11 per cent cream with two parts of water will give a fat percentage of about 3'7. One great drawback to the use of mixtures which contain added cream is the difficulty, especially in towns, of obtaining it fresh. Amongst the poor also the expense makes it impossible in many cases to obtain cream. A plain mixture of milk and water is there- fore commonly used, and the results are some- times quite satisfactory; but in a considerable proportion of cases the inevitable deficiency of fat in the mixture leads to some failure of nutrition, or to some degree of rickets. Where no more accurate method can be carried out, it is well to adopt the simple plan of allowing the milk to stand in a jug for an hour or more, and then, with as little shaking as possible, pour off the top half to be used in preparing the infant's food ; a valuable increase of fat is obtained in this way. Where even this is impossible the milk should be given with the least possible dilution con- sistent with the digestion of the casein, and, if necessary, the deficiency of fat must be made good,by the daily administration of small doses of cod-liver oil. The writer has sometimes used a little butter, a piece about the size of a large pea, dissolved and shaken up well, in a three- or four-ounce feed of diluted milk ; the proper-