415 INFLAMMATION hood of the injured part dilate, then the veins, and the rate of blood-flow therein is obviously accelerated. These changes last a considerable time, and are followed by others generally in about an hour. Many capillaries formerly in- visible begin to appear and become distended with blood. 2. Hyperjemia and Retardation.— After a time the rate of blood-flow becomes slower, and continues to do so until it is slower than normal. The vessels, particularly the capillaries and veins, instead of showing the usual well - marked distinction between axial stream of corpuscles and peripheral stream of plasma free from cells, show a mixing of these streams. The axial one broadens out and gradually encroaches upon the peripheral one. Then leucocytes fall out into this peripheral stream and move slowly along, every now and then becoming adherent for a moment to the vessel wall only to move slowly onwards again at intervals. They may even regain the axial stream. Blood-plates often also appear in this marginal zone. The blood-flow gradually be- comes still slower, and red blood corpuscles pass out into this same zone, and soon all distinction between axial and peripheral streams is lost. The lumen is filled with a mass of red and white corpuscles whose shape and outlines are now distinctly seen. The latter gain the wall of the vessel in increasing numbers, and adhere firmly to it, generally becoming pear-shaped owing to the pressure of the blood-flow. The slowing continues iintil the blood is moved on- wards merely by a succession of jerks, or even oscillates slowly backwards and forwards, ulti- mately coming to a complete standstill, a con- dition of stasis. 3. Exudation of Fluid.—A considerable oozing of clear fluid now comes from the wound. It began earlier, but has now become marked. It comes from the distended vessels, particularly the capillaries and veins, and is generally spoken of as an outpouring of lymph. 4. Escape of Blood Corpuscles.—The leucocytes adherent to the vessel walls gradually make their way through until they lie alto- gether outside the vessels. It takes a leucocyte a very considerable time to emigrate from a vessel, probably because it has to squeeze itself through an aperture greatly smaller than itself. When half through it may be seen as a rounded swelling both outside and inside the vessel, con- nected by a very narrow thread. Emigration occurs most abundantly from the small veins, but it also occurs to some extent from the capillaries. Although the wall of the latter is so much thinner, yet the lumen is so narrow that the same margination and accumulation of leucocytes cannot take place. The process generally continues steadily for several hours, until a great concourse of leucocytes showing active amoeboid movement can be seen lining the outside of the veins and in lesser numbers the capillaries. Little groups of red blood cells may also be seen in places among the leucocytes. The passage of the red cells through the vessel walls is known as diapedesis, a term which has been extended by some authorities to include also the emigration of the leucocytes. Many of the latter move from the neighbourhood of the blood-vessels towards the injured surface, and they may escape in siich numbers in the exudate that it becomes opaque instead of clear. Others break down, and fibrin appears in the exudate, so that the gap becomes filled with a colourless clot which overlaps the edges. 5. Reaction of the Fixed Tissue Cells.—The epithelial cells at the margin now begin to proliferate and grow over the wound towards one another. Circula- tion begins afresh in the afi^ected vessels, slowly at first, but steadily and gradually. The vessels contract, the leucocytes disappear, and soon (generally in about three days) the circulation appears to be perfectly restored to its normal state. The proliferation of the epithelium has meanwhile continued and is completed about the same time, so that now all traces of the injury have disappeared. These later stages cannot be seen in the pithed frog, and hence fresh animals must be used ; and further, the greatest care must be taken to protect the wound from all contamination. The mesentery or tongue of the frog may be chosen for experi- mentation instead of the web. The mesentery of the cat, dog, etc., or the ear of the white rabbit, or wing membrane of the bat, are also suitable structures, as they all permit the direct observation of the circulation under the micro- scope. Exactly similar chunges are seen in naturally occurring inflammations of the skin and serous surfaces, such as the peritoneum, pleura, meninges, and joint surfaces, etc. The Causes of Inflammation.—The exciting cause of the inflammation in the foregoing experiment is a mechanical one. Chemical, thermic, and electrical influences act in a similar manner. Thus the mere exposure and fixation to the microscopic slide of the mesentery of a warm-blooded animal is suflicient to set up a severe inflammation. The rapid cooling and evaporation must be held in check other- wise necrosis may set in. The mechanical, thermic, chemical, and electrical agents are classed as external noxse, and to them must be added the most important of all, viz. infections in which bacteria are the causal factors. A combination of noxse may occur. Thus bacteria may gain a footing in a tissue already inflamed through the action of another agent. The mechanical, electrical, and thermic noxse must always act externally, causing inflammation at their site of impact, whereas bacteria may enter the body without setting up any change at their point of access, and being transported by the blood or lymph may cause inflammations at other and distant parts of the body. Such in- flammations are metastatic, and the noxa; may