548 INTESTINES, SUEGICAL AFFECTIONS OF the intestine above the stricture with that below. After colotomy in cancer cases death arises most commonly from cancerous involvement of the peritoneum or of the liver; less frequently, from secondary growths in other organs; more rarely it follows sloughing of the diseased part due to blocked mesenteric vessels, followed by localised abscess or general peritonitis. In chronic intussuscejjtion the prognosis is grave. Spontaneous elimination is very rare. After a month of illness, with no sign of spontaneous elimination, death is almost in- evitable without surgical operation. The fatal termination generally arises from malnutrition, due to interference with digestion and the absorption of food, or from the svipervention of an acute attack, or from perforative peritonitis. In fcecal acctimulation death is very rare, except in lunatics, because the treatment usually adopted proves effective. Death may occur from malnutrition, or from perforation, or from rupture of the distended intestine, the csecum or the sigmoid flexure being the part to give way. Treatment The treatment of intestinal obstruction has been made uncertain by difficulties in diagnosis and prognosis, and because both are vague the choice of treatment has been wanting in decision. It must at once be admitted, for every one who has had experience in this disease knows it, that the most unpromising case, in which the symptoms are so marked that a diagnosis of obstruction by a mechanical obstacle is in- disputable, may recover spontaneously or under medical treatment. We also know, however, that treatment by the most approved medical methods, and carried out completely from the onset, results in an appalling mortality; and the same may be said of operations performed as a last resource. Available statistics are useless as an aid in our endeavour to formulate the best methods of treatment. There are no figures to show what is the mortality of operations performed during the first thirty-six hours of the illness, and this should be the extreme time limit if operation is to have the best chance. My opinion, based upon the pathological causes of intestinal obstruction and the general results of abdominal surgery, is that the recovery rate would reach 70 per cent at once if the rule to operate early were universally adopted. In support of this opinion, it may be well to state that of 8 acute cases of intestinal obstruction operated upon during the past year of less than fifty-three hours' duration, in which I have been concerned, 6 have recovered and 2 have died. Before considering in detail the treatment to be adopted in a case of acute obstruction, I cannot too urgently impress the need for an exhaustive examination, and the formation of the best possible diagnosis, at any rate as to the dangerous character or otherwise of the illness before treatment is commenced. The most urgent symptom, and the one which always demands the earliest possible relief, is pain. Opium in one or other of its forms is the only drug known which can be relied upon to do this safely, effectually, and speedily. Con- sidering the condition of the stomach and upper intestine, it would appear to be unwise to administer opium by the mouth, as it may be ejected in whole or in part, or, if retained, may fail to become absorbed till, perhaps, the obstruction is relieved, when its effect is not desired, and when indeed a poisonous quantity may find its way into the circulation. The rectum is a better channel for its administration, when it can be given as a suppository or in a small enema; but the best, because the surest and quickest, method is to give a dose of morphia hypodermically. Too large a quantity is to be avoided as hurtful, and one too small, as it will fail to give relief, and may require repetition. A third of a grain in an adult may be generally said to be the proper dose. Repeated small doses of opium are to be condemned in all acute abdominal cases. Administered in frequent small quantities, the drug masks all symptoms and leads to a false sense of security; it paralyses the intestines; and it produces a hypertesthetic condition of the patient very unfavourable to recovery. A reduction of the accustomed dose leads to a miserable condition of physical and mental collapse, and patients under its influence are predisposed to die from shock after an operation. Though it is true that the rest, intestinal and general, brought about by the iise of opium may result in a marvellous improvement in the general condition, I doubt whether the curative influence ascribed to it by generations of authorities has any foundation in fact. If a loop of intestine has been ensnared by a band, it appears to be as reasonable to suppose that, by violent peristaltic efforts, it might again escape as that its release was to be aided by keeping it quietly at rest. It may have been obvious before the administration of opium that the patient was dangerously and acutely ill, and in all such cases the abdomen should be opened without waiting to see what the result of the opiate may be. Others less certainly ill should be seen at short intervals and closely watched. In ordinary cases a large, hot linseed-meal poultice applied so as to cover the entire abdomen, and left on for an hour, has a soothing efl'ect, and the heat of it diminishes shock, from which the patient is probably suffering. If it be removed at the end of an hour, and, after sponging the skin with hot water and drying it, cotton wool be wound round the body, the weight of the poultice can scarcely be seriously objected to. During the first hours nothing whatever should