424 INFLUENZA From time to time during the succeeding centuries epidemics of the disease occurred. An outbreak in the spring of 1743 was well described by J. Huxham, who adopted the name "influenza" for the complaint in the sentence —" This fever seemed to have been exactly the same with that which, in the spring, was rife all over Europe, termed the ' influenza.' " It is noteworthy that the French name for the malady, " la grippe," came into use also in con- nection with the outbreak of 1743. Biermer writes : " In France the ' influenza' has gener- ally been called la grippe since the epidemic of 1743. This designation is probably derived from agripper (to attack), and not likely from the Polish word chrypka {raucedo), as T. Frank believes." In September 1758 influenza became epidemic in Edinburgh and in Scotland at large. Dr. Robert White, F.R.S., Professor of Medicine in the University of Edinburgh, the historian of this outbreak, observes that early in September, before the influenza appeared, a disease existed among horses in Perthshire—" the horses were observed to be more than usually affected with a cold and a cough." This is the first mention of the coincidence of an epizootic with influenza. In 1775 again Dr. Thomas Glass of Exeter notes that in his part of the country, in September, " many horses and dogs were severely afflicted Avith colds and coughs." Dr. Fothergill, in his Sketch of the Epidemic Disease which appeared in London towards the end of the year 1775, says that " during this time horses and dogs were much affected—those especially that were well kept. The horses had severe coughs, were hot, forbore eating, and were long in recovering. Not many of them died that I heard of, but several dogs." Coming down to our own time, the occurrence of the so-called " pink-eye" among horses has been frequently observed since the great pan- demic outburst of influenza in the autumn and winter of 1889. In his work on Horses and Stables, Liexit. - General Sir F. Fitzwygram, Bart., says : " The term ' pink eye' has of late years been applied to a particular form of influenza manifested by symptoms of a pecu- liarly marked nature, notably that of a re- markably clear pink coloured condition of the conjunctival mernbi-ane accompanied by a swollen or oedematous state of the conjunctivae." He adds that " pink eye" is now generally recognised as being merely a modification of the catarrhal form of influenza. It may be remarked that in " pink eye " there is a notice- able tendency towards the formation of fibrinous clots or thrombi in the cavities of the heart and in the larger arteries, especially in the pul- monary system — a condition which not infre- quently leads to unexpected and even sudden death. In his Report to the Local Government Board (England) on the great epidemic of 1889-90, Dr. H. F. Parsons points out that, prior to the outbreak of influenza in London and some other parts of England, and also in some continental countries, a disease termed " influenza" pre- vailed among horses. In certain large stables in London numerous horses were affected by this epizootic in October 1889, some six weeks before the hiunan epidemic made its appearance. Dr. E. Symes Thompson, the author of Influenza^ or Epidemic Catarrhal Fever, says that he was so strongly impressed with the intimate connec- tion between "pink eye" in horses and human influenza, that in the early part of December 1889 he wrote to the British Medical Journal, calling attention to the prevalence of an equine epizootic, and suggesting that it would not im- probably prove the forerunner of an outbreak in man. These facts appear to establish a relationship between human and equine in- fluenza, but a closer examination throws con- siderable doubt on such a relationship. In the first place, human influenza is reproduced in animals by inoculation only with difficulty and most inconstantly. Bollinger of Munich also believes that equine influenza and human in- fluenza are essentially distinct diseases, because in the great horse epizootic resembling influenza which overran North America in 1872-73, there was no corresponding epidemic among human beings. Again, in the outbreak of 1889-1890, persons having to do with horses were not observed to be specially or earliest affected, while influenza prevailed epidemically at certain places, such as Newmarket, where no similar disease among hoi'ses was affirmed. Lastly, the bacteriology of the two diseases differs. Pfeiffer's bacillvis is wanting in horse influenza, while Schutz, in 1888, cultivated a streptococciis from the lymphatic glands of horses suffering from " epizootic influenza," known in Germany as Druse des Pferdes, which he believes to l)e the specific infectious agent in this disease, and to which the name of Streptococcus coryzce con- tagiosce. equorum has been given. After the epidemic of 1758 the chief out- breaks of influenza in the eighteenth century were in America in 1761, Europe in 1762, Asia and Europe in 1781-82—"one of tlie most widespread pandemics of this disease that have ever occurred," according to Finkler; Europe in 1788-89, and America in 1789. As pandemics of influenza in the nineteenth century, Finkler quotes the outbreaks of 1802- 1803, 1830-33, 1836-37, and 1847-48, as being generally recognised. Hirsch adds to this list the epidemics of 1850-51, 1855, 1857-58, and 1874-75. Lastly, comes the great pandemic of 1889-90, with its repeated " flarings" during the succeeding decade—flarings which have not yet ceased to appear. The history of this notable outbreak begins in May 1889, when influenza appeared in Bok- hara, in Central Asia, thence travelling nortli-