399 INFANT FEEDING tion of fat may be raised in this way nearly 1 per cent. Infants generally tolerate this amount of butter well, but the method is not to be recommended where cream can be obtained, for the butter does not mix easily with the milk, it has a taste which may be disliked, and it is often adulterated, especially with preserva- tives which may do harm. Addition of Sugar.—Whatever strength of cow's milk is used the addition of sugar is necessary to bring the proportion up to that found in human milk. For this purpose milk- sugar is preferable to cane-sugar. A stand- ardised solution of milk-sugar is sometimes used for the dilution of milk, but this has the dis- advantage that the solution must be frequently made afresh to prevent its undergoing fermen- tation. It is quite as simple and usually much more convenient to add the milk-sugar directly to the diluted milk; and if it be remembered that one level teaspoonful (75 grains) of the powdered milk-sugar in a three-ounce mixture gives a proportion of about 5 per cent of sugar the calculation is simple enough. Thus in a three-ounce mixture of equal parts of milk and water, which, as already pointed out, contains 2 per cent of sugar, the addition of one level teaspoonful of milk-sugar will raise the propor- tion to 7 per cent; and in 6 oz. of such a mixture the addition of two teaspoonfuls of milk-sugar will have the same effect. The use of milk-sugar is not a matter of great importance, cane-sugar will serve the purpose almost equally well, and amongst the poorer classes it is commonly used on account of its cheapness. If ordinary white lump sugar is used a lump about half an inch square should be used to a three-ounce mixture of milk and water. Milk Mixtures.—Of recent years there is a growing tendency to the use of carefully calcu- lated formulae in the modification of milk for infant feeding, with the object of approximating more nearly to the standard of human milk. This, undoubtedly, is a step in the right direc- tion, and it is much to be desired that such careful modification should be more generally carried out; but at the same time it must be remembered that an infant is not a test-tube, and that no amount of mathematical precision in the calculation of formulte will eliminate the idiosyncrasies of the infant. We may deter- mine to a nicety the percentage of each con- stituent in a mixture, but the much more serious difficulty still remains to know what particular percentage will suit any given case. There is no golden rule whereby to determine this; one can judge to some extent from the age of the infant, but the requirements of each individual case must remain to a large extent a matter of experiment. The proportions of fat and sugar which are required vary very little at any period during the first year of life; the former should be 3-4 per cent, the lower pro- portion being given during the first few weeks, the sugar should be 6-7 per cent. The propor- tion of proteid is the chief difficulty; the following proportions can only be taken as a rough guide, for infants of the same age differ considerably in their power of digesting the proteids of cow's milk :— Percentage Age. of Proteid. 1 or less 1st week 2nd week to 6th week 6th week to 3rd month . 3rd month to 6th month 6th ,, 8th ,, 8th „ 12th ,. 1-5 1- 75 2- 0 2- 5 3- 0 These proportions can be approximately obtained by diluting the milk according to the following table :— Milk. Water. 1st week 1 3 2nd week to 6th week . 6th week to 3rd month . 3rd month to 6th month 6th ,, 8th 8th ,, 12th ,, If the milk is diluted in this way, and the quantity of each feed is regulated according to the table given below, the addition of one tea- spoonful of 48 per cent centrifugalised cream, and of milk-sugar in the proportion of about one teaspoonful to every 3 oz. of the mix- ture, will give satisfactory proportions. For example :— Approximate Proportion. Formula. Per cent. 1st week— Milk, 1 tablespoonful . . Proteid, 1 Water, 2 tablespoonfuls . . Fat, 3 "8 Lime-water, 1 tablespoonful . Sugar, 6'5 Cream (48 p.c), 1 teaspoonful Milk-sugar, half a teaspoonful (Half this quantity to be given as a feed.) 2nd to 6 th week— Milk, 2 tablespoonfuls . . Proteid, I'S Water, 3 ,, . . Fat, 3-2 Lime-water, 1 tablespoonful . Sugar, 6 "3 Cream (48 p.c), 1 teaspoonful Milk-sugar, 1 level ,, 6th week to 3rd month— Milk, 3 tablespoonfuls . . Proteid, 1'6 Water, 3i . . Fat, 3-2 Lime-water, 1 tablespoonful . Sugar, 6 "5 Cream (48 p.c), 1 teaspoonful Milk-sugar, 1 level ,, 3rd to 6th month— Milk, 4 tablespoonfuls . . Proteid, 2-0 Water, 3 ,, . . Fat, 3-25 Lime-water, 1 tablespoonful . Sugar, 6 "5 Cream (48 p.c), 1 teaspoonful Milk-sugar, 1 level ,, 6th to 8th month- Milk, 8 tablespoonfuls . . Proteid, 2-6 Water, 2 ,, . . Fat, 3-4 Lime-water, 3 tablespoonfuls . Sugar, 7'0 Cream (48 p.c), 1 teaspoonful Milk-sugar, li ,, 8th to 12th month- Milk, 12 tablespoonfuls . . Proteid, 3 Water, 2 ,, . . Fat, 3-4 Lime-water, 2 tablespoonfuls . Sugar, 6 "2 Cream (48 p.c),l teaspoonful Milk-sugar, 2 ,,