460 INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF which their cerebral arterioles are affected by atheroma, the insane are specially prone to the occurrence of cerebral hsemorrhage, which is connected in most instances with the rupture of a miliary aneurysm, or of an arteriole otherwise weakened by this form of morbid change. Endarteritis obliterans affects both the large and the small cerebral arterioles in the vascular form of syphilitic insanity. Acute periarteritis of the intra-cerebral arterioles is an almost constant change in the advanced stages of general paralysis. Colloid degeneration and calcification have occasionally been observed in cases of insanity, but are certainly rare. The Neuroglia and Mesoglia.—The question of the normal structure of the neuroglia has given rise to much discussion. The tissues to which this name is commonly applied consist really of two totally different cellular elements, the one of which is epiblastic in origin and the other mesoblastic. The evidence in support of this view consists mainly (1) in the fact of the differentiation of the latter tissue-element by means of the platinum method; and (2) in its harmony with the important observations of Capobianco and Fragnito upon the histogenesis of the neuroglia. The true neuroglia consists of cells with numerous, only very slightly branched, specially differentiated processes, at least many of which are attached to the vessels and other structures. The mesoglia in its typical form consists of cells with numerous processes, which branch dichotomously, and are never attached to the vessels or to other structures. The two kinds of cell can be shown to behave qviite differently in pathological conditions. The neuroglia serves to support the nervous elements, and it is the tissue of repair in the brain. There is conclusive evidence that the mesoglia cells do not subserve either of these functions. Their role seems to corre- spond pretty closely to that of connective-tissue corpuscles in other organs. It is at least certain that they are capable of acting as phagocytes. In conditions of chronic irritation in the brain, as in general paralysis, choreic insanity, and chronic alcoholism, there is usually well- marked hyperti'ophy and proliferation of the neuroglia in certain parts of the brain. Similar changes occur wherever the nervous tissues have been extensively destroyed, as for example in the vicinity of the atrophic soften- ings so common in cases of senile insanity. The mesoglia cells form a certain proportion of the granular corpuscles (others being leuco- cytes) which commonly occur wherever dead cerebral tissues are being absorbed. In some irritative conditions they tend to proliferate and to degenerate into amyloid bodies. T]i.e Cortical Nerve-cells. — In recent years very remarkable advances have been made in our knowledge of the structure of the nerve- cell. Two chief classes of nerve-cells are distinguished, namely the somatochrome, which contain chromophile substance in their proto- plasm, and the karyochrome, which are generally much smaller and do not contain this substance in their protoplasm. The somatochrome nerve- cells are by far the more important, and they alone need be dealt with here. The nucleus possesses a distinct limiting membrane, a re- ticvilum and granules, and a single nucleolus. All of its structural elements are acidophile in reaction, with the exception of three or fovir small particles adherent to the nucleolus, which are basophile, and which constitute the whole of the chromatin in the cell. The protoplasm surrounds the nucleus, and extends on the one hand in the form of long-branching and gradually tapering processes, termed the protoplasmic pro- cesses or dendrites, which at some little distance from the cell-body are clothed with minute, often filiform, appendages, the gemmulae or thorns; on the other hand it extends in the form of a single process, termed the axis-cylinder process or axon, which at a short distance from the cell-body generally gives off some delicate branches, the collaterals. The main process may pass into a medullated nerve-fibre, or run a comparatively short course as a non-meduUated fibre. The dendrons are organs of reception of the nervous impulses, the axon the apparatus concerned with their discharge. The proto- plasm contains innumerable minute fibrils, which are now generally regarded as the con- ducting element of the nervous impulses. These fibrils course for the most part inde- pendently in the processes, but form a network in the cell-body. The interstices of this network contain localised aggregations of a substance which presents a strong affinity for certain dyes, such as toluidin blue. These aggregations constitute the Nissl-bodies or chromophile particles of the nerve-cell proto- plasm. There is generally a collection of a pale yellow substance, the nerve-cell pigment, in the vicinity of the nucleus. Several minute lymph canaliculi course within the body of the larger cells and open upon the surface. They were first observed by Golgi, who described them as a special endocellular reticulum. The neuron theory, according to which each nerve-cell (with its processes) is anatomically and physiologically an independent element, has lately been boldly attacked by Apathy, Bethe, and Nissl, but, nevertheless, retains its place as a canon of neurology. It is still defended and maintained by such high authori- ties as Lugaro, Marinesco, van Gehuchten, Ramon y Cajal, Barker, and Lenhossek. It has now been definitely proved that the chromophile substance of the protoplasm is utilised during the functional activity of the nerve-cells. Recent experimental investigations have thrown a great amount of light upon the mean-