HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 82 the pericardial sac, but in the latter they may be conveyed by the circulation to all parts of the body, thus readily explaining the general toxfemic manifestations met with in certain forms of endocarditis. In myocarditis the irritant must reach the muscle through the coronary vessels—at present we know but little as to the lymphatics of the heart in pathological states—or else, as often seems the case, by ex- tension from the peri- or endocai-dium. Here the products of the inflammatory process cannot escape, and either by direct pressure, or the influence of morbid products on the several elements, lead to various degrees of degenera- tion or actual necrosis. In the less acute and chronic forms of inflammation the proliferative changes become conspicuous. Multiplication of the connective-tissue and endothelial cells leads to the production of tissue which, however, is to be considered as of a decadent type. In the endocardium, and especially in the valves, in- creased production of tissue, usually of a fibrous character, leads to extensive mechanical defects, as will be indicated in the section on valvular diseases. In the pericardium local or general thickening may result, and frequently the peri- cardial sac is obliterated by the formation of adhesions. In the myocardium the inter- muscular tissue may be increased in amount and rendered of a more fibrous character, and compress or even actually replace the essential muscle elements. Frequently evidences of degeneration and destruction occur in the same case with proliferative changes. The so-called infective granulomata may con- veniently be referred to here, closely allied as they are to the process of inflammation as we are accustomed to view it. The specific irri- tants of tuberculosis, syphilis, and actinomycosis occasionally invade the cardiac tissues. Tuber- culous lesions are by no means uncommon in the pericardium. Sometimes large cheesy nodules occur in the subpericardial structures, or even in the myocardium. At times more or less diffuse caseous areas are met with, or a certain degree of generalised fibrosis. Gummata are rare. Exceptionally they develop as caseous- looking yellowish - white nodules, often sur- rounded by dense fibrous tissue. They may even rupture into the cavities of the heart. Multiple gummata have been found in her- editary syphilis. Syphilis may also give rise to a diffuse interstitial formation of fibrous tissue, and some have claimed that this should be con- sidered an arterio-sclerotic induration rather than a true interstitial myocarditis. Actinomycosis is characterised by the forma- tion of grey or yellowish-white granulomata which may suppurate, and in which the typical organisms may be found. (8) Atrophy. — This constitutes the simplest form of regressive interstitial change. It may affect the heart as a whole, and be a part of a general atrophy of the body, such as occurs in starvation and diseases like phthisis and dia- betes ; or it may be local, or at least affect the heart to a greater extent than the rest of the body. Usually the most conspicuous change is in the muscle cells. Simple atrophy may arise from practically any condition which deranges the normal equili- brium between the evolutioii and involution of the individual cell. It is of common occurrence in states of premature decay, in all wasting affections, particularly malignant disease and pulmonary tuberculosis, and in affections gener- ally speaking associated with impaired nutrition. The heart has a small shrunken appeai-ance. The muscle cells are diminished in size, and usually darker in colour from the presence of yellow pigment granules. In advanced forms met with, particularly in senile and cachectic conditions, it may assume a distinctly brown aspect, when the condition is commonly termed "brown atrophy" or "pigmentary atrophy." Non-ferruginous granules become deposited in the muscle cells tending to congregate at the extremities of the nucleus. (9) Hypertrophy.—Cardiac hypertrophy must be viewed as rather a physiological than a pathological process. True hypertrophy of the heart's muscle is always a compensatoiy measure. It is nature's method of assuring adaptation. It is the reaction to influences making for a disestablishment of cardiac equilibration. Hypertrophy of the heart frequently arises from the influence of persistent effort, such as is necessarily associated with many forms of laborious work. Such reaction to a physi- ological over-activity is well seen in blacksmiths and professional runners or rowers. A slight amount of hypertrophy is said to occur normally in pregnancy, possibly as a consequence of in- creased arterial tension. Increased activity of the heart from nervous causes may lead to a certain degree of increased muscular development, as is seen in cases of Graves' disease, and so-called functional tachy- cardia. In most of these instances, however, dilatation seems to precede hypertrophy. The most marked degrees of hypertrophy are found in conditions of valvular deficiency and states of high arterial tension. The causes of cardiac hypertrophy may thus be conveniently divided into (i.) intrinsic and (ii.) extrinsic, according as to whether they arise in the heart itself or originate without the heart. As will be shown when considering the lesions of the different valves, both insufficiency and stenosis may lead to conspicuous hypertrophy. Generally speaking, in the latter form of lesion, since it is usually of slow development and of gradually increasing intensity, and because also the effects of the mechanical defect become chiefly manifest on the walls of the cavity