HERNIA 187 (c) The Guherna/ixdum. — Irregular attach- ments of the gubernaculum may pull down into the scrotum accessory sacs, as in infantile hernia. The pouches of Rokitansky seen in the peritoneum, near the internal abdominal ring, may also be formed in this manner. The descent of a congenital csecocele is induced by traction of the gubernaculum. (d) The Abdominal Wall.—Congenital gaps may exist at the umbilicus or at any portion of the linea alba. Congenital weakness of the lower part of the abdominal wall, associated more especially with retention of the testis, is recognised by Macready. 2. Heredity. — The children of herniated parents are more likely than others to suffer from hernia. Macready, who has especially investigated this point, concludes that " inherit- ance is an agent, though perhaps a remote agent, in the production of hernia, and that the influence of the two sexes is nearly equal." 3. Sex.—All writers are agreed that males are affected more frequently than females. According to Macready the following are the percentages:—Male inguinal, 83'5 ; female inguinal, 8"5; female femoral, 5'9; male femoral, 2-1. 4. Age.—Hernia may be met with at any age. In childhood and early youth congenital causes are at work. During the first year of life an extraordinarily large rmmber of ruptures are seen. Then, year by year, fewer until puberty. From puberty till the termination of the most active period of physical life, at or about fifty years of age, the number steadily increases, but after the latter period gradually declines. 5. Weakness of the Abdominal Wall.-—In addition to the congenital laxity already referred to, there may also be an acquired feebleness of the muscles. In many cases of inguinal hernia, especially in adults and old people, lateral bulgings of the abdominal wall between the outer edge of the rectus and Poupart's ligament are seen when the patient is standing. There may be also a central bulging of the two recti, and the appearance of ventre a triple saillee of Malgaigne is presented. Any form of injury to the anterior abdominal wall may result in the weakening of the damaged area and the protrusion of a viscus through it. A stab, an incision made during an operation, or a blow leading to rupture and subsequent atrophy of the muscle ("Guthrie's Hernia") may all originate a hernial swelling. The rapid wasting of a large deposit of fat, the wasting associated with old age or with acute illness, may leave the abdominal wall incapable of resisting pressure from within. Parturition, ovarian tumours, ascitic effusion may, by the distension they cause, result in a weakening and a laxity of the whole parieties. The importance to be attached to the hypo- gastric bulgings has, I believe, been considerably overestimated by Mr. Lockwood. He remarks : "This bulging always accompanies acquired hernia, and, I believe, precedes its occurrence." Because of this general laxity, Mr. Lockwood further teaches that "curative operations upon acquired hernia are to be avoided." It seems to me that this is an exaggeration both of the fre- quency of the condition and of the severity of it in relation to operative treatment. Mr. Treves remarks: "In any but aged or broken-down subjects this enfeebled condition of the belly- wall can be greatly improved or even overcome by suitable exercise of the abdominal muscles," a statement which I have verified on several occasions. 6. The Condition of the Mesentery.—The normal mesentery is of sufficient length to permit of the entrance of the bowel into an inguinal or a femoral sac. An elongation of the mesentery is consecutive to hernia, and not, as was generally supposed, the initial and re- sponsible defect. Lockwood has shown that "in undoubted cases of acquired hernia, the length of the mesentery is the same as in un- ruptured people of the same age." As age progresses, the normal attachment of the mesen- tery to the posterior abdominal wall becomes altered by the gliding downwards of this struc- ture. In its descent the other abdominal viscera accompany the mesentery in what Lockwood terms a compound "prolapse of the inesentery." A profile view of the abdomen of a patient affected with this condition shows a flattenino- or an excavation above, and a bulging below, the umbilicus. Such a state naturally pre- disposes very strongly to the onset of a rupture, and if, at the same time, the abdominal wall is lax and enfeebled a hernia is certain to occur. The two conditions are not infrequently associ- ated, and Lockwood believes that both are the expressions of a general tissue deterioration. A rupture, he writes, is " in many cases the local manifestation of a widespread tissue-change." Exciting or Determining Causes.—The im- mediate cause of a hernia is any condition which increases the intra-abdominal pressure. 1. Effort is the most frequent of these. In the lifting of heavy weights, in straining on coughing or on defsecation, or on micturition when stricture or prostatic enlargement exists, a strain is put upon the abdominal muscles and the cavity enclosed by them is lessened. In children, a tight prepuce, a stone in the bladder, intestinal irritation from bad feeding or from worms and so forth, produce persistent strain- ing. Certain occupations, involving heavy work in certain postures, thus determine the occurrence of hernia. In general it may be said that those trades demanding the most severe exertion show the highest proportion of ruptured persons. 2. Intra-abdominal pressure may be increased by the growth within the cavity of any form of tumour, or by the accumulation of fluid in large