INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 503 is not to be insisted on until wise views \ipon inoffensive sexual functions have been learned. Sometimes a task scarcely less delicate falls to the physician who is asked to determine the nature of a supposed case of kleptomania. He will in any case have to choose between describing the patient as dishonest or as insane. The culprit might usually be left to say; for most cases are both. Most kleptomaniacs are women, perhaps for want of business education. The abeyance of sufficient motive, some weak- mindedness, and an approach to the insane diathesis, are corroborative. In pure klepto- mania there is well-marked impulse, but a large number of spurious cases are rather the subjects of doubtful habit—of thought, if not of deed— and have encouraged the wrong idea. In this connection it is interesting to note the relation of hoarding to pilfering. Misers and other " col- lectors " are prone to pilfering. I was consulted recently about a young woman who, in less excusable circumstances than most, took money belonging to others and hoarded it. When a girl she was unusually fond of money and fre- quently appropriated coins and hid them in strange places, mostly in books. Treatment is difficult. All cases require moral discipline, as well as physical bracing. Punishment of ordinary kinds will do harm in genuine cases when there is some degree of tumultuous impulse perhaps amounting to an epileptic equivalent. But patients who encourage wrong impulse may be deterred by suitable corrections. Pilfering from comrades is severely punished in the army and is comparatively rare. Systematisbd Insane Purpose.—We need only glance at this form of mental disorder. It is not a recognised form of insanity, and the practitioner will seldom have to treat a private case. But it will be well if he recognises it as an insanity, and forms an opinion as to how to deal with it. For the patients involved will sooner or later become the subjects of legisla- tion or of provision by our courts. A systematised insane purpose is a deliberate intention to achieve some definite end by insane means. It differs from impulse in that it is a deliberate and abiding purpose, not a passing- crave ; and it is usually the expression of a conviction which may or may not be a delusion. A paranoiac, for example—and degenerates and paranoiacs are most subject to this form of madness—may be convinced that some one is his arch-enemy, and may consequently plot murder and deliberately set about to achieve it. Many paranoiacs conceive projects which are much more insane than the delusions of which they are the outcome. Vindictiveness, or at least the supposed redress of wrongs, is the motive in nearly all such cases. Very often there is a real and serious grievance. The insanity lies in the method adopted to achieve the desired result. And we must judge of such an insanity by taking into account the tradition and customs of the time. Sanity is the capacity of the individual to appreciate, and to regulate his conduct according to, the accepted standards of his day. An old-world Corsican, for example, whose family had suffered great injury or insult, who undertook a vendetta and slew the offender's grandson, would not, in his day, have been necessarily insane. But such an one who to- morrow revenged a real or supposed injury by stabbing his victim in the streets of London, must needs either be hanged as a murderer or detained as a dangerous lunatic. The motives of such insane revenge are usually either per- sonal, or religious, or political. Insane purposes are often entertained by weak-minded persons who have a personal grievance. Others conceive that God or Allah, or some other deity, desires the death of certain people, and set about to accomplish it. But political crimes are those with which we are most familiar. The revolt of the Boxers in China and their intention to massacre Europeans would be an insanity in point, did they not represent just about the level of Chinese thinking and of Chinese morals. Nihilism is of this nature. And perhaps the best examples are to be found in anarchists, members of a civilised and law-abiding com- munity, who set out to put wrong things right by insane and often violent means. From the point of view of mental science, political crimes are in no way justified by the fact that the patient entertains lofty sentiments about the rights of man any more than we would overlook the insanity of a patient who slept with his wife and family in the open fields because he enter- tained some enlightened views about tubercle. Much has been made of the love of notoriety as an important factor in political crimes. Its importance is probably exaggerated. The essen- tial facts in such cases are that the intelligence is weak, so that the patient cannot think straight or see the various sides of his question; that he is possessed by disordered feelings of resentment which leave no room for justice and mercy towards innocent individuals; and especially that he has suffered an arrest of development which is obvious in his disability to believe in, and have patience with, constitutional methods of redress. In any case, the only possible treat- ment of such social insanities is by stern pre- ventive measures. If anarchists and such-like criminals were quietly consigned to a criminal lunatic asylum their craving for notoriety would soon dwindle; and if this form of insanity were generally recognised, if it were understood that any one who advocated insane methods was ipso facto a lunatic, and a fit subject for asyhmi treatment, the mad crimes with which the world is so often horrified would materially diminish. Dementia.—All uncured insanities which are not terminated by early death result in some