64 HEARING, ARTIFICIAL AIDS TO this form of " artificial drum " only that is of any practical \ise. The cases best suited are those in which the membrane is partially or totally lost, but it will be found that in all varieties of perforation, from small holes to almost complete loss of the membrane, there will be cases in which the application of the artificial drum is attended with marked benefit, while in others apparently similar no good can be obtained even after long perseverance. It is especially where there is a solution of continuity in the ossicular joints (particularly in that between the incus and the stapes) that the pellet will be of service. When the malleus and incus are present the pellet requires to be placed in contact with them. In cases where the head of the stapes is free the wool must be placed against that ossicle. In the latter case, however, a tenotomy of the stapedius will often give better results, since, when the stapes is free from its connection with the incus, the stapedius tilts it out of place and the pellet acts by preventing this. The presence of profuse discharge is a contra- indication to its use. The application of the cotton-pellet is quite simple. Made of suitable size of sterilised or antiseptic wool, it should be moistened with glycerine of carbolic acid and passed steadily down the meatus until the membrane is reached. This is done by means of a pair of fine straight forceps (Yearsley designed a special pattern for the purpose), and seldom causes pain if gentle- ness is used. The hearing should be tested previously, and the pellet gently adjusted until repeated tests show improvement. The adjust- ment is often tedious, but is speedily learned afterwards by the patient, who should be taught to manipulate the aid himself. He should be directed to wear the pellet for an hour or two only at first, gradually increasing the time until it is worn continuously. It should never be worn at night. 2. Ear-Trumpets, etc.—A large variety of trumpets, conversation-tubes, and other instru- ments have been devised and introduced from time to time as aids to hearing. Amongst them the aural quack finds a happy hunting- ground, and advertises freely his cornets, auricles, aerophones, apparitores auris, and similar valueless arrangements to catch the money of the unwary. These quack instru- ments may be at once dismissed from considera- tion, they are almost always useless, many cause considerable irritation and even ulceration of the meatus, and the smaller ones may some- times be found in contact with the membrana tympani bathed in the foul pus of a suppura- tion caused by their presence. The "akou- phone" and " massicon," recently forced upon the public in a very plausible manner, are equally useless and fraudulent. The special function of the auricle and meatus is the collection and reflection of the sound waves, whereby as few of them as possible are lost. The natural and fundamental form of artificial "ear-trumpet" is the placing of the hollowed hand to the ear. This augments re- sonance aird increases the auditory capacity, especially for notes of high pitch and short wave-length, such as are found in the overtones of the human voice. All the trumpet forms of artificial aid are designed to act similarly. They are made of various substances—ebonite, iron, glass, porcelain, silver-plated metals, etc., the best reflectors being those of hard and dense material. Against their employment, however, their weight, fragility, and intrinsic notes greatly militate, and therefore such light metals as "aluminium are often used. The simplest (and, therefore, the best) form is that of a hollow cone, and this, modified in various ways, is that usually adopted for trumpets. Echoes may be lessened by widening the cone- base and obliquely truncating it. Some years ago Dr. C. J. B. Williams published the result of certain experiments with these aids to hearing. He found that the confusion of trans- verse vibrations could be obviated by perforating the sides of the trumpet. He pointed out that a cone of stiff" paper, some eighteen inches long, ending in a short metallic ear-piece, caused very little reverberatory roar, and magnified sound twelve times. The writer on one occa- sion found that such a contrivance, home-made, was the only form which benefited one par- ticular patient. The modifications of these aids are so numer- ous that space will not allow of any complete description of them, and, indeed, such descrip- tion would not serve any useful purpose. Otologists are practically unanimous in the opinion that, with the exception of conversation- tubes and simple forms of trumpet, these aids to hearing classed in this second group are useful in but a small proportion of cases. Reference to instrument makers' catalogues will give some idea of the multiplicity of form amongst these aids. A few words must be said regarding " audi- phones" before discussing tubes and trumpets in more detail. The audiphone is a fan-shaped disc of viilcanized rubber, bent by a silken cord. The edge is placed in contact with the upper teeth, the convex surface being tui-ned toward the source of sound. The waves of sound caught thereon are conveyed to the internal ear by bone-conduction, via the upper teeth. The contrivance will, however, be found of little value, save in a few exceptional cases. With them, as with all "aids," it must be remembered that the presence of an intact (or nearly intact) perception of sound is necessary if one hopes to obtain any improvement by augmenting sound, collection, and conduction. From what has been already said, it will be