INFANT FEEDING 396 medical man, particularly for the presence of tubercle or syphilis. Quite recently the writer had under his care an infant whose wet-nurse had deliberately concealed the fact that she had haemoptysis, and although she had been examined by a medical man, it was not until she had suckled the infant several months that the fraud was discovered by her becoming acutely ill with tuberculosis. The nurse's infant should also be examined if possible, partly to see whether it shows any evidence of syphilis, and partly to ascertain whether it has thriven on its mother's milk. In the choice of a wet-nurse, her age and the age of her infant are of much less importance than the character of her milk, and this should be ascertained by the clinical methods described above, or better still by having an accurate analysis made. Inspection of the milk and also of the breasts, which should be full and firm, will also give some idea of the quantity and quality of the milk. The diet of a wet-iuirse must be regiilated on the same lines as those laid down for the nursing mother, but with this caution, that as she has usually come from very poor circumstances, a too plentiful or too rich diet may easily alter the quality of her milk, so that it may disagree with her nursling. For the same reason, if she has been accustomed previously to hard, active life it is important that she should have plenty of exercise, otherwise the combination of a liberal diet with insufficient exercise is almost sure to produce milk too rich in proteid and fat. The employment of a wet-nurse is by no means always a success; not every woman's milk agrees with every infant, and even if at first the nurse's milk agrees it is liable to any of the changes to which a mother's milk is subject, and may at any time cease to agree with the infant; and lastly, such women require constant supervision to see that they discharge their important duties faithfully. Artificial Feeding When the mother is unable to suckle her infant, the most readily available, and in most cases the best substitute for breast-feeding is cow's milk; but as will be seen, cow's milk re- quires modification to adapt it to the needs of the infant, and to carry out this modification intelligently some knowledge of the composition of cow's milk, and of the points wherein it differs from human milk, is essential. Cow's willc, when first drawn from the udder, has an amphoteric reaction, but as it reaches the consumer it is generally faintly acid. Its specific gravity varies from 1029 to 1035. Microscopically it resembles human milk in consisting of a colourless plasma in which are suspended fat globules : the average size of these globules, however, is larger than in human milk. The plasma, as in human milk, contains pro- teids, sugar, and salts in solution, but the pro- portions are not the same as in human milk. The composition of cow's milk varies con- siderably : the following average obtained from analyses made by several observers is therefore only approximate; the proportions in human milk are given here for comparison :— Cow's Milk— Proteids— Casein, 3'25 Lactalbumin, Fat Sugar . Salts . Water . Human Milk— Proteids— Casein, '6 Lactalbumin, Fat Sugar . Salts . Water . .J 4'0 per cent 3- 5 4- 0 87-8 2"0 per cent 3-5 7-0 •2 87-3 It will be seen that the chief difterences in composition are the much larger proportion of proteids and the much smaller proportion of sugar in cow's milk. But the proteids show an even more important difference, for while in human milk they consist chiefly of lactalbumin, in cow's milk they consist chiefly of casein : the proportion of casein to lactalbumin in cow's milk is about 4 : 1, in human milk it is about 1 : 2. The practical significance of this difference is readily appreciated if samples of the two kinds of milk are taken in two test-tubes, and some weak hydrochloric acid is added. Large solid masses of curd are at once formed in the cow's milk, while the human milk shows only very fine flocculent shreds of curd floating in it. Similar changes occur in the stomach, but the formation of curd here is due not only to the acid in the gastric juice, but also to a milk- curdling ferment, rennet. Another important difference is the sterility of himian milk in con- trast with the large number of bacteria present in cow's milk as it reaches the consumer; the alkalinity of human milk also contrasts with the acidity of cow's milk. Modification of Cow's Milk. — It is obvious that in order to reduce the proportion of pro- teids to the standard of human milk some dilution will be necessary. For this purpose various diluents are available, but the choice of the diluent in any particular case is often a matter of considerable importance. Plain water, as the simplest and least ex- pensive, is most commonly used; such simple dilution not only reduces the percentage of pro- teid, but also materially reduces the size of the curd. In many cases this is all that is required to enable the infant to digest the casein ; in others, however, this is not sufticient, and the digestion of the curd may be assisted by using some thickened fluid as a diluent.