37 HEMOPHILIA former case there are petechise or ecchymoses in the skin during infancy or later life, and haemorrhages in the mucous membranes, tissues, and organs. The ecchymoses in no way differ in appearance from similar conditions foimd in persons with an acquired hsemorrhagic diathesis. Traumatic ecchymoses are common, and allied to them are hajmatomata, which may attain the size of a man's head. 3. Joint affections do not usually arise till the fourth or fifth year, and the larger joints are the more commonly afiected. Spontaneous or traumatic haemorrhage occurs into the joint cavity (haemarthrosis), and thei'e is an inflam- matory infiltration of the periarticular tissues. Thus the joint appears swollen, is painful, especially on movement, and the overlying skin is often somewhat discoloured. The onset of the swelling is often sudden, and accompanied by a rise of the temperature to 103°-104° F. The swelling usually disappears in the course of a few weeks, but tends to recur. In conse- quence of repeated intra-articular haemorrhage changes occur in the joint structures, giving rise to appearances closely resembling rheuma- toid arthritis, and in later stages the ends of the bones are much thickened, and the joint is more or less anchylosed, flexed, and useless. Diagnosis is easy in well-marked cases. The milder varieties may present more difficulty ; important points to remember are that the disease is hereditary and mainly affects males, that the fii'st signs appear as a rule before the tenth year, and that the disease lasts through- out life. It may be mistaken for—(i.) The haemorrhagic diseases of the neiv - born. Idio- pathic umbilical htemorrhage affects both sexes equally, and leaves no subsequent liability to excessive haemorrhages. Melaena neonatorum usually occurs within a few days of birth, is due to gastric or intestinal ulceration, and is often fatal within a week. Some forms of congenital syphilis and the haemoglobinuria of Winkel's disease are readily differentiated, the latter being- accompanied by cyanosis, jaundice, and somno- lence, and being probably an infective disease, (ii.) Scurvy, the various forms of ^mrpura and the haemorrhages of gout, leucocythemia, etc., are as a rule easily distinguished, (iii.) Lastly, the joint affections must not be confounded with rheumatism, gout, rheumatoid arthritis, or tuber- cular disease of the joints. Prognosis. — The yoimger the patient the graver is the prognosis ; but with care adult life is often attained, and the hiemorrhagic tendency possibly diminishes after middle life. Treatment. — If there is known to be an hereditary tendency to the disease, the children, and especially the boys, should be carefully reared, and all operative measures avoided, with the exception of vaccination, which is hardly ever attended with special risk. Older children and adults have usually been warned by their relatives of their morbid tendency, but some bleeders are peculiarly reticent in admitting that they are sufferers ; hence, if haemophilia be suspected, mere denial thereof should not entirely 'allay our suspicions. If traumatic haemorrhage has occurred, general surgical measures must be employed to arrest the bleed- ing ; operative interference, however, causes haemorrhage as uncontrollable as that from the initial lesion. Compression, combined, if neces- sary, with plugging of the wound, is the most efficient treatment, especially if complete rest be observed at the same time. Styptics are useless, but freezing with ice or ethyl chloride has sometimes acted well. Internal medica- ments, e.g. chloride of calcium, ergot, or acetate of lead, may also be tried, but are of more use for checking bleedings from mucous surfaces. Substances, such as nucleic acid, j^east, thymus, and other preparations containing nuclein, are recommended on account of the fact that they produce leucocytosis. Transfusion may be re- sorted to if other measures fail. Treatment which appears beneficial in one case is often useless in another, in which the bleeding con- tinues unchecked, only ceasing when syncope ensues, or even causing the death of the patient. Joint swellings are best treated by means of compression and immobilisation. After a bleed- ing the patient usually remains somewhat anaemic for some months, and the administration of iron, cod-liver oil, and other tonics, with attention to the hygienic surroundings, is advisable. [A case has been reported by Ballantyne [Journ. Amer. Jled. ylssoc. xxxvii. 503, 1901), in which chloride of calcium was given during pregnancy to a woman who had given birth to two hjemo- philic male infants; the pregnancy during which the calcium was given ended in the birth of a perfectly healthy male child; post-partum haemorrhage, which had been present in the former labours, was absent in this.] Haemoporphyrinuria. /See Derma- titis Herpetiformis {Morbid Anatomy and Pathology); H.EMAToroRPHYRiNURiA. Haemoproteus Danilewskii. See Parasites (HmnosjMi idia). Has mo protozoa. See Malaria (Para- sitology). Haemoptysis. Pathogenesis . . . . .38 Etiology ...... 38 Pathological Appearances ... 40 Symptomatology ..... 40 Differential Diagnosis .... 41 Prognosis 42 Treatment ...... 42 See also Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Course and Terminations, Rupture); Bronchi, Bron- chial Glands {Enlarged Glands, Symptoms);