INDIGESTION 381 food is taken, up to the evacuation of that which is waste, and until the nutritious materials separated from it have been finally transformed into cell components, or paid their way in the production of energy at the cost of their own decomposition, digestion continues and in- digestion is possible. Robin's classification divides dyspepsias into three groups : dyspepsias from exaggeration of function, or hypersthenic; those due to insufficient function, or hyposthenic; and those caused by perversion of function, or gastric fermentations. Einhorn recognises organic disease with constant lesions, functional disease with variable lesions, and nervous affections of the stomach. Etiology.—Indigestion respects neither age nor sex; male and female, old and young are liable to be attacked. Both age and sex, however, have some influence over the incidence of the malady, and the type. Predisposing Causes. — 1. Dietetic. — Un- doubtedly the chief source of indigestion lies in errors of diet. It is a very difficult and hazardous matter to define what constitutes a dietetic error in the universal sense. One man's meat is another's poison. Use and wont within certain limits influences the question. Habits, occupation, temperament, constitution, and bodily condition modify the conception of what may be appropriate in each separate case. Idiosyncrasy also has to be remembered. Mere personal errors, apart from these con- siderations, consist in habitual omission to properly masticate the food, in hurried bolting of meals, immoderate use of alcoholic stimu- lants, of astringent infusions, ice-cold liquids, or over-hot drinks. In addition, where the cir- cumstances of the patient place no restriction in the way of his or her indulgence of appetite, the continual enjoyment of highly spiced foods, the ingestion of one of the three primary forms of food-stufFs out of all proportion to the other two, whether it be proteid, carbohydrate, or fat, and a too close sequence of heavy meals, tend in time to produce dyspeptic symptoms, either from local quarrels on the part of the digestive organs, surfeited by excess, or from general conditions, reflexly causing a disordered state of the alimentary tract. Indigestion from long-continued dietetic error, whether it be due to personal misdemeanours, to constitutional states, or to environment, chiefly arises from incongruity between the food taken and the physical needs of the body; —the amount of active expenditure of muscu- lar energy, by inclination or of necessity, cor- responding to but part of the nutriment ingested and absorlied;—or from unsuitable characters of the food for the upkeep of function—mental, secretory, or trophic. In those to whom circum- stances deny a choice, irregular, unsuitable, and insufficient forms of sustenance, badly prepared or not prepared at all, often initiate chronic in- digestion. 2. Habits.—Any ill effects which may follow such dietetic errors as are enumerated above are dependent in great part on the habits of the individual. Indiscretions in diet, produc- tive of serious disturbance in the digestive economy of the sedentary occupant of an office, or of one largely confined by necessity to the house, may prove harmless to those who live an outdoor life, or whose occupation entails a considerable output of physical energy. But conversely, a monotonous or barely sufficient diet may serve for one who expends but little muscular force, while quite inadequate for the worker and a source in him of digestive dis- order. A very common starting - point for indigestion is shown by persons, accustomed previously to an out-door life or much open-air exercise, who take up their abode in towns, or enter upon confined or sedentary occupations. The dietetic habits formerly suited to their cir- cumstances are too often continued under these changed conditions, and if long maintained almost certainly result in ill-health. Symptoms.—Owing to the fact that many of the clinical signs and symptoms of indigestion are common to more than one of its different types, perhaps the most simple and intelligible course to follow is to discuss them seriatim, as they fall under (1) Sensory, (2) Motor, and (3) Functional groups. 1. Sensory Symptoms common in Indigestion. —Local sensations of discomfort in the stomach are generally the first signs given of the presence of gastric disorder. They may only amount to a vague feeling of uneasiness, of a ball in, or some apparent weight pressing down, the stomach ; again, they may take the form of a gnawing pain, persisting for some time, and usually directly related to the ingestion of food, or of more paroxysmal attacks of pain, either at some special stage of gastric digestion, or inde- pendent of digestive processes. Not infre- quently the subjective sensation of pain is more or less definitely confined to one point, and can be located by the patient. In the majority of cases, however, the feeling of uneasiness and pain is diffuse and referred to the entire organ. Another common complaint is that of "swel- ling " of the stomach, a feeling as if it were greatly distended, and had too little accommo- dation for its bulk. This may arise from actual distension of the stomach with gas, or occur apart from any real dilatation or obstruction, and due to a hyperjesthetic condition of the sensory nerve fibrils in the wall. Patients now and then describe their stomach as giving them the idea of an absolutely inert mass or foreign body,—a symptom of nervous dyspepsia with temporary arrest of peristalsis and secretion, where the nerves of the surrounding abdom- inal viscera are hypersensitive. Sensations of