462 INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF exciting causes of insanity. Tubercular nodules are also to be observed with some frequency in the cerebral substance. Localised gummata are occasionally present in cases of syphilitic insanity, but appear to be less common than a diffuse gummatous infiltration of the pia arachnoid and adjacent brain substance, which is generally associated with endarteritis obliter- ans of the cerebral arteries. Extensive localised areas of sclerosis are occasionally met with, especially, but not exclusively, in epileptics. Their origin is still somewhat obscure. A special form of localised sclerosis of the brain, which, like the preceding, occurs especially in epileptic idiots and imbeciles, has been termed hypertrophic nodular gliosis. The nodules vary in size in different instances. They are generally multiple and affect especially the cortex. According to the observations of Pellizzi,! this form of cerebral sclerosis depends upon a defect of development arising at a time corresponding to the formation of the tertiary sulci. Insanity, its Nature and Symp- toms. I. The Relation of Mind and Brain— (1) The Biology of Consciousness . 462 (2) Personality and Subconsciousness 466 II. Index of Mental Functions— Instincts; Interests; Humours; Percep- tion ; Memory ; Thought, Common- sense, and Beliefs; Feeling, Emo- tions, and Affections; Habit and Impulse; Moral Sense and Sense of Fitness; Purpose; Conduct . 469 III. The Insane Diathesis . . . 474 (1) Arrests of Development . . 475 {a) Partial 47-5 {b) General 475 (c) Progressive .... 476 (2) Excesses of Development, Odd Minds 477 IV. The Incidence of Episodic Insanity 479 V. Types op Episodic Insanity . . 480 Melancholia . . . . .481 Stupor 486 Mania ...... 489 Alternating or Periodic Insanity . 491 Delusional Insanity. The Divergent views of Authorities . . .493 (a) Confusional Insanity . . 494 (b) Systematic non-Progressive Delu- sions ..... 495 (c) Monomania .... 496 (d) Alternate Personality (^Double Consciousness) . . . 498 Insane Defects of Inhibition . .499 Aboulia, Swithering Insanity {Folie de doute) .... 500 Rhythmism {Automatism) . . 500 ^ Annali di freniatria, 1899, f. 4 ; 1900, f. 1, 2. Impulse and Obsession . . .500 Dipsomania (vol. ii.) . . 502 Erotomania, Kleptomania, etc. . 502 Systematised Insane Purpose . . 503 Dementia ..... 503 VI. Index of Etiological Varieties of Insanity . . . . .504 I. The Relation of Mind and Brain (1) Biology of Consciousness.—The medical faculty, as well as the general public, still labour to some extent under a time-honoured disability in their view of insanity, for which our philosophers are largely to blame. To the philosopher, indifferent to the pedigree of brains, and habitually averse to appreciate the material conditions of thought, the development of personality is interpreted merely as an evolu- tion of consciousness, sometimes consecutive and intelligible, butoften inconsequentand fortuitous. For the phases of the human mind, subjectively considered, resolve themselves into moments of self-attention, alternating with periods of atten- tion to things other than the self, and without any apparent thread to bind them together. The attention moves from this to that, some- times by association of ideas, sometimes because of a fact in the environment which it perceives; but very often also without any apparent occa- sion either in itself or in its circumstance. Every human mind has gaps in it. Alone, in still darkness, things jump into the mind; and, at any moment in which the attention is not following an idea, nor noticing the outer world, irrelevant suggestions occur. Such interrup- tions or invasions of the mind are only to be explained by a view of personality which relates it to cerebral processes, some of which are de- termined by self-directed movements of the attention, some as reactions to the experience of the moment, but also some which are automatic. And especially when we consider insanities and allied states we must have recourse to a cerebral interpretation of the facts. Most people still labour under a view of insanity which regards it merely as the lost wanderings, or the trans- cendent flights, of the soul. That was an ortho- dox view about a century ago. Insanity is cerebration—the activities of a disordered cortex —and the modes of consciousness which it ex- hibits are to be explained as due to realms and tracts whose functions are normally subconscious. It must become our habit to think of the mind as conditioned by nervous states, and of personality as determined by inherited cerebral character. Only by an explicit and detailed study of the mutual relations of spirit and brain can we appreciate either normal personality or these interruptions or invasions of it—loss of power in memory, in judgment, or in purpose, occa- sional lapses to brute states, muscular violence, emotional frenzy—to which the unstable are liable.