542 INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF be complete, because it is possible for the bowel below the seat of the obstruction to empty itself of matter contained in it, though this is very rare. Just before death a motion is not infrequently passed. Rarely, though it is im- portant to bear the fact in mind, diarrhoea may be the most prominent symptom of obstruction. The most marked case of this sort that I have seen occurred in a woman on whom I operated for stricture of the ileo-ctecal valve. Every two weeks she had an attack of diarrhoea, attended by severe griping pains, with marked gurgling and peristaltic contractions and bad-smelling vomit. The lower ileum was enormously hyper- trophied and dilated, and at the time of opera- tion (an interval), though every effort had been made to clear her intestinal tract, with apparent success, by purgatives, the small intestine, though not distended, contained several pints of ffccal matter. It appeared to me probable that this patient's ileum was never able to empty itself thoroughly, and that the attacks of diarrhoea every fortnight were explained by the discharge of a large quantity of irritating matter, gradually accumulated there, into the colon. Spurious diarrhoea, with tenesmus, is a not uncommon symptom of stricture far down the colon. Passage of Flatus.—Flatus is never passed except in cases of intussusception or partial obstruction, even though the bowel be relieved of solid matter. In intussusception, along with blood and mucus, a small quantity of flatus may pass during the attack of tenesmus. Temperature. — Temperature is normal or subnormal, and this may be an important diagnostic point. Swelling of the Abdomen.—Though in the early stage the abdomen is contracted to relieve pain, a little later swelling occurs, and this may increase rapidly and impede respiration. In cases of partial and chronic obstruction the hypertrophied and distended intestine may be seen and felt contracting and dilating through the abdominal wall. This sign is pathognomonic of intestinal obstruction. It may also be pos- sible to locate the neighbourhood of the obstruction if it can be ascertained that the contraction ends always at some definite spot. A tumour may be found in intussusception and in faecal obstruction; also in obstruction due to foreign bodies, cancer, tubercle, matting of adhesions, internal hernia, tumours pressing on the gut; and sometimes the empty coils of intestine pressed down into the pelvis, can be felt from the rectum as an indefinite swelling. Chronie obstruction begins gradually. It is often preceded by a period of loss of health and weight, and dyspepsia with constipation. The constipation is at first entirely relieved by a purge, but a characteristic history is one which tells of increasing rumblings of wind and pain after the administration of a purge. Later the patient may emit wind, though no stool passes. In cancer there is sometimes blood, spurious diarrhoea, and tenesmus. In chronic intus- susception the same symptoms may be present. The stools, when the large intestine is diseased, may be altered in shape, and become tape-like or small worm-like in form. Frequently, on exposing the abdomen, contractions of the dilated and hypertrophied colon ai-e visible. Vomiting occurs in the later stages, but fa3cal vomiting is generally long delayed. The pain is intermittent, and is dependent upon forcible contractions of the intestine above the obstruc- tion. The general symptoms are M-anting at first. The end of the case is usually brought about by an acute attack supervening on the chronic course of the disease. In a variety of acute abdominal lesions the symptoms are similar; for example, in peri- tonitis due to perforation of any of the viscera, in ovarian tumour with twisted pedicle, in ruptured or leaking ectopic gestation, in an attack of gall-stones or renal colic, in cholera, and in certain kidney cases ; so that the first question to be answered on seeing such cases is :— 1. Is it one of intestinal obstruction? The history is of value. If the attack be due to appendicitis there is frequently a history of previous ones, and it is rare for the perforative variety of appendicitis to start quite abruptly. If due to the perforation of a gastric ulcer there will probably be a history of previous stomach troubles. In ruptured or leaking ectopic gestation there may be the usual his- tory of pregnancy, a missed menstrual period; if to an ovarian tumour, the tumour may have been observed before its pedicle became twisted. Perforating typhoid ulcer is preceded by illness of a febrile character. In kidney cases there may be albumin in, or total suppression of the urine. If the attack be due to gall-stones, a history pointing to attacks of hepatic colic, followed by jaundice, may be elicited. The diagnosis from peritonitis is especially difficult. In peritonitis the pain is more rapidly generalised and more superficial; there is more abdominal tenderness ; the abdomen swells more rapidly; the muscles become markedly rigid; pain and tenderness are increased by pressure, and the vomiting is less abundant and more rarely ftecal than in obstruction ; the constipa- tion is also less complete. In peritonitis the temperature is high at first, and later it may be lower than normal. In obstruction it is lower at first, and may be higher later when peri- tonitis develops. In peritonitis there may be signs of peritoneal eft'usion, and the abdomen becomes dull in all the most dependent parts. In obstruction intestinal movements may be visible. The diagnosis, even if the greatest care be