68 HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF The important remaining and intervening portion of the venous system is completed, as has been stated, by the changes which take place in the development of the vitelline or omphalo - mesenteric and the umbilical veins, which result in the formation of the portal Fiu. 5.—Diagram of tlie transtbrn'.ation of tlie aortic arclips into permanent arteries (Qiiain after Ratlike). A, P, aseeiidiii^ aorta and pulmonary arterie.s ; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, right brancliial anterial arches ; i, ii, m, iv, left branchial clefts witli arches corresponding to tho.se on the right; ci, ci', right and left internal carotid arteries; ce, external carotid arteries; c, common carotid arteries ; v, v', vertebral arteries; .s, s', .sub- clavian arteries ; d, ductus arteriosus; a, a', right and left aortic roots ; A', permanent descending aorta; pit, pn', right and left pneuuiogastric nerves. Obliterated portions left unshaded. venous system and its supi'a-hepatic outflow, the great hepatic vein. The great hepatic and umbilical veins are further united during later foetal life through the medium of the ductus venosus, which, like its arterial analogue, the ductus arteriosus, dis- appears after birth. The disappearance of these channels coincidently with birth is, however, due to opposite causes. The ductus arteriosus disappears, because the breathing organ of adult life—the lung—has come into action ; the ductus venosus vanishes because the breathing organ of foetal life—the placenta—has ceased to exist. Notwithstanding the confluence of the two great venous channels, the upper and lower vense cavjie at the right auricle, there is, during the greater part of foetal life, little admixture of the two streams. The difference in direction of these, the large development of the Eustachian valve at the entrance to the inferior cava, to- gether witli the direction given by the auricular septum and its deficiency at the foramen ovale, serve to direct the inferior blood-stream—that most oxygenated by placental respiration — across the right into the left auricle, and thence by way of the left ventricle and the arteries of the aortic arch into the upper part of the body; while the blood returning by the superior cava to the heart, and therefore the less oxygenated, passes through the right auricle into the right ventricle, and is sent thence chiefly by way of the ductus arteriosus into the abdominal aorta and the territory irrigated by the latter. The situation of the ductus arteriosus or Botalli and its entrance into the aorta beyond the primary vessels of the aortic arch is a beautiful provision of Nature for supplying the most nutrient fluid to the organs most necessary to foetal life, namely, the heart, by way of the coronary arteries and the growing nerve-centres indispensable to organic life. While a portion of the pulmonary cii'culation is probably pervious in utero, and circulates the less oxygenated blood contained in the right ventricle, the effect of the respiratory act at birth is to open out the whole of the pulmonary blood-vessels, and thus to accommodate a large quantity of blood. Pressure in the left auricle is thus suddenly raised, the foramen ovale is closed by its valve-like screen, a change in the position of the heart is brought about, which, according to Schantz (Pfltiger's Archiv f. d. gesammte Phys. Nov. 1888), twists to some extent the ductus arteriosus, and the circulation then assumes the character of that of adult life. A B Figs. 0 and 7.—Diagram of the condition of tlie great veins in the embryo, and of their transformation into the permanent veins (Quain after Kiilliker). j. Jugular veins uniting with the subclavius : s, cir. cardinal veins becoming the azygos as in B ; dc, ducts of Cuvii-r formed liy the union in BA of jugular and cardinal and becoming the suiierior vena cava on the right side, but disappearing on the left side ; ea', Jiart of left cardinal vein which disapjiears ; ci, vena rava iiitVi ior ; I, hepatic veins and ductus venosus; il, coniinun iliac veins; cr, external iliacs ; ?t, hypogastric becoming the intenml iliacs. Portions which disappear less darkly shaded than the per- manent portions. The fffital channels are, as a rule, altogether obliterated within a period variously estimated from a week to ten days. The Comparative Anatomy op the Mam- malian Heart.—Professor Huxley has shown (Man's Place in Nature, Edin. and Lond. 1864)