HEAD 57 dermoid cysts. The latter are most common about the outer angle of the orbit, yet may be found in the middle line, and then closely re- semble meningocele. Epithelioma, fibroma, the various forms of angioma, and more particularly the so-called cirsoid aneurysm, and sarcoma may be mentioned. By cephalhfematocele is meant a cephalhaematoma, which communicates with one of the sinuses of the dura mater, causing a small reducible swelling, Avhich may pulsate. Lastly, there are the congenital malformations of the skull, causing cephalocele, the most common variety being the meningocele, which, as a rule, occurs in the middle line, and is more or less reducible and translucent. Diseases of the Bones.—Osteomyelitis occurs as a result of compound fracture {q.v.). Tuber- culosis of the cranial bones is a very chronic condition, in the course of which a tubercular abscess forms. This bursts, and sinuses remain running through the bone. Syphilis gives rise to gummata in the peri- cranium or bone, or between the bone and dura mater. They either disappear under treatment, burst externally, or become ossified, and then form " syphilitic exostoses." The head in con- genital syphilis and in other general diseases has been already referred to. Headache. Causes ....... 57 Diagnosis ...... 59 Treatment . . . . . .60 See also Bile and Biliousness {Bilious Head- ache) ; Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {AncBmia, Syphilitic Vascular Lesions); Brain, Tumours op ; Brain, Inflammations ; Brain, Surgery of ; Brain, Cerebellum, Affections 0¥{Hcemorrhage); Climacteric Insanity; Gout; Meningitis, Tuberculous ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerbbro - Spinal ; Nephritis {Chronic, Renal Cirrhosis); Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Paralysis, Diagnosis) ; Eefraction {Refractive Headaches); Eheumatism in Children {Sym- ptoms, Nervous Affections) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {General Symptom- atology) ; Typhoid Fever {Symptoms); Uraemia {Chronic Symptoms); etc. etc. Headache has been aptly described by Hand- field Jones as a Dis-ease. It is a symptom of a great variety of morbid conditions, and fre- quently the discovery of its cause is a problem of great difficulty. In all cases the pain is perceived in the sensorium. The seat of its production may be : (a) nerve-endings, in the meninges, the scalp, some organ of special sense, or, at a greater distance, in the stomach, or some other organ ; (6) irritation at any part in the course of a nerve; (c) or it may arise from the condition of the nerve-cells of the sensorium itself, or of the blood surrounding them. The causes of headache have been divided into organic and functional. The investigations of Hodge on the changes produced by fatigue in the nerve-cells of the bee render it probable that, with improved methods and more exact knowledge, the class of functional disorders, with the exception, perhaps, of those due to reflex irritation, will disappear from our nomenclature. As a factor in the production of headache, the quality of the sentient me- chanism of the individual plays a most important part; some persons inform us that they never had a headache in their life ; in certain indi- viduals a small elevation of temperature is always accompanied by pain in the head, whereas high temperature causes no headache to othei's. Women are more liable to this kind of suffering than men; it is more frequent in persons of nervous temperament than in others. Age brings often a general blunting of the sensibility both of nerve-centres and of end- organs, and headache, as a rule, recurs with diminishing frequency and severity as life ad- vances. Occasionally more than one cause operates in the same case; e.g. in fevers both hyperajmia and toxaemia act. The causes of headache may be arranged in the following order :— 1. Intracranial Disease.—Acute and chronic inflammation of the meninges from syphilis, gout, rheumatism, tubercle, chronic alcoholism, chronic kidney disease, general paralysis, and other forms of insanity. Head injuries occa- sionally produce headache for a long time after the injury, although there may not have been external mark. Encephalitis, hydrocephalus, intracranial haemorrhage, abscess, tumour. Small haemorrhages and slowly-growing tumours in the substance of the brain are not accom- panied by pain. Bramwell points out that tumours cause pain by (a) increase of intra- cranial pressure; {h) direct involvement of the membranes ; (c) direct implication of the fifth nerve. 2. Cranial and Fericrcmial Aff'ections.—Any disease which produces pressure on nerve-trunks or twigs as they pass through foramina in bone or membrane—syphilitic, rheumatic, and malig- nant diseases of iDone or of pericranium,—ery- sipelas, wens, excessive weight of hair, certain styles of coiffure, pediculi, tight or too heavy head-dress. 3. Reflex Irritation.—In addition to some causes named in class 1, and most in class 2, there are those from the organs of special sense and the abdominal organs. Irritation of the end-organs of special sense is a powerful exciting cause of headache because of the extreme sensitiveness of these structures. (a) Nose.—Any disease of the nose and of its accessory cavities. Dundas Grant says that adenoids in the naso-pharynx are the most common form of nasal disease producing head- ache. Acute congestion of frontal sinuses in