INFANT FEEDING 400 If a weaker cream is used, so that larger quantities are required, it becomes necessary to take into account the proteid and sugar as well as the fat in the cream ; and often it is con- venient to use such a thin cream instead of milk as the basis of the mixture. The proteids and sugar in any cream are practically in the same proportion as in milk. An 8 per cent cream can be obtained as described above by taking the upper 10 ounces from a quart of milk which has been allowed to stand for three hours. Such a cream only requires dilution and the addition of sugar. For an infant be- tween the ages of 6 weeks and 3 months such a mixture as the following is suitable:— Approximate Proportion. Formula. Per cent. Cream (8 p.c.), 3 tablespoonfuls Proteid, 1'7 Water, 3 tablespoonfuls . . Fat, 3'3 Lime-water, 1 tablesj)oonful . Sugar, 6 "6 Milk-sugar, 1 teaspoonful At six months it may be used with an equal quantity of diluent, thus :— Formula. Cream (8 p-c.), 6 tablespoonfuls Water, 5 tablespoonfuls Lime-water, 1 tablesjjoonful Milk-sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls Approximate Proportion. Per cent. Proteid, 2 Fat, 4 Sugar, 7 Similarly by using the upper 15 ounces (6'5 per cent fat) from the quart of milk, and dilut- ing with an equal quantity of water, a mixture is obtained containing proteids 2 per cent, fat 3'25 per cent; or, by using the upper 5 ounces (11 per cent fat), and diluting with twice the quantity of water, a mixture is obtained with proteids 1"3 per cent, fat 3 7 per cent. The percentages obtained by any such methods, even with the utmost care, are necessarily only classes. Home modification is much less ex- pensive, and is quite satisfactory where proper care is taken. For the hard-working poor even such modification may be impossible, and for them any elaborate formulfe are mere counsels of perfection. Simple dilution with plain water, or barley water, according to the table given above, with the addition of a small lump of white sugar to each feed, often gives very good results ; and if the deficiency of fat be made good by daily administration of cod-liver oil, infants fed thus may do perfectly well. Quantity and Frequency o/ifea^s.—Whatever food is used it is most important that feeding should be regular. The tendency is to feed an infant too often and with too large quantities. The infant who is fed " whenever it cries " can- not be expected to digest its food, and it is not surprising if an infant vomits when it is allowed to take a much larger quantity than the stomach can possibly hold without considerable over-dis- tension. The average capacity of the stomach, according to Dr. Holt, is at birth 1-- oz., at three months 4^ oz., at six months 6 oz., and at twelve months 9 oz. Some post-mortem observa- tions made by the writer agreed fairly closely with these measurements, and clinical experience has shown that at these ages these are about the quantities which a healthy infant is able to digest. Of course some latitude must be allowed for the constitution of the particular infant: a vigorous baby above the average size may be able to digest and may require a larger feed than a smaller infant of the same age. Some infants are habitually "small feeders," and will thrive on smaller qviantities than those men- tioned. The following table may serve as a guide for the feeding of an average healthy infant:— Age. Interval between Feeds. Quantity. Number of Meals. Total Amount in 24 hours. First week .... 2nd week to 6th week . 6th week to 3 montlis . 3 months to 6 months . 6 months to 8 months . 8 months to 12 months 2 hours 2 ,, 2i „ 3 „ 3 ,, 3 „ 1 oz. li to 2 oz. 3 to 4 oz. 4 to 6 oz. 6 to 7 oz. 7 to 8 oz. 10 8 6 6 6 5 10 oz. 12 to 16 oz. 18 to 24 oz. 24 to 36 oz. 36 to 42 oz. 35 to 40 oz. (with additional food) approximate, for the composition of milk, even from the same cow, varies not merely from day to day, but even at different hours of the day ; and although this variation is somewhat less in the mixed milk of commerce, it is still present, and in cream it is still more marked. Some of the large London dairy companies now undertake the preparation of milk mixtures according to prescriptions from medical men, and this at once simplifies the matter; but the costliness of such a luxury places it at present beyond the reach of any but the wealthier The infant should be accustomed, as in breast- feeding, to sleep several hours at night without being fed; the interval should be increased gradually from four hours during the first week up to six hours at three months, and with some infants seven or eight hours at six months. Boiling, Pasteurisation, and Sterilisation of Milk.—Cow's milk and cream as they reach the consumer contain a considerable number of bacteria, and it has been proved beyond dispute that some of the acute specific fevers, particu- larly typhoid, scarlet, and diphtheria, have