INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 538 (Fig. 1); but not uncommonly it occurs at the further limit of the ensnared gut, as when a large coil of intestine passes under a loose band, and is obstructed only at its outlet (Fig. 2). Evidences of local peritonitis are soon seen in Fig. 1.—Strangulation by tight band. the strangulated loop. Its surface becomes dull I' and sticky, and later on is covered with purulent t lymph. Finally, the signs of gangrene appear. I The lowest portion of the ileum is most com- ' monly caught in this form of obstruction. Internal Uernice.—In the peritoneum, cover- ing the posterior abdominal wall, chiefly at the duodeno-jejunal and ileo-csecal junctions, and in relation to the ctecum and sigmoid flexure, pouches of peritoneum are normally found. Into one of these a portion of bowel may enter. Indeed, cases are recorded in which the whole of the small intestine has been found in such a sac. The gut may be held and become stran- gulated there; or a loop of intestine may pass through either normal or abnormal openings in the mesentery or omentum, such as are occa- sionally found in healthy subjects, or such as may be left after tears from injury, or the fora- men of Winslow may allow the gut to paws through and becoriie retained in the lesser peri toneal sac, strangling it at its entrance ; or as the result of a congenital or accidental opening, intestines may pass into the jaleui'a through the diaphragm and be nipped by the congenital or acquired orifice. Diaphragmatic hernia is prac- tically limited to the left side, as congenital i openings are generally found there, and the liver protects the right side from the effects of injury. ArUusiuns.—Adhesions occur often as a result of preceding peritonitis, due chiefly to tuber- culosis, appendicitis, and, in women, to pelvic lesions. In the latter case the results are some- what different from those produced by the ordinary bands or adhesions. A loop of in- testine becomes adherent to some portion of the pelvic wall, frequently the bladder or uterus. Under the bridge of intestine and mesentery so formed, coils of intestine find their way between the arch of intestine and mesentery in front and the pelvic wall behind. The intestinal contents pass freely into the ensnared loops, but have difficulty in making their escape. Distension follows, and the increased tension brought about by this forces the exit channel into a position from which it cannot escape, usually the sharp angle formed by the mesentery, and this portion of intestine becomes acutely strangulated as by a band (see Fig. 2). Kinking of the intestine may cause obstruction by the dragging of a limited adhesion (Fig. 3), producing a valvular occlusion, or so much matting may attend ex- tensive adhesions that the passage of intestinal contents is prevented. 2. De fects in Position of Parts of the Ijitestines. —Intussusception is the most common example of this variety, and one of the frequent cavises (about one-third of all cases) of intestinal ob- struction. A portion of constricted bowel is received into the cylinder below it, so that a transverse section through the involved portion Fig. 2.—Strangulation by loose baml. from without inwards would show (1) the sheath with its mucous surface in contact with the mucous surface of (2) the returning or middle layer, the peritoneal coat of which is in contact with the peritoneal coat of (3) the entering