INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 488 aflfairs, but he cannot show it. He just sits still, or lies still in bed, does not speak, does not use his limbs, although he may move, is fed and relieved of excreta only with difficulty, does not wash or clothe himself. The appearance is oftener surfeited than emaciated ; the face may be flushed; asphyxia of the extremities may occur; the muscles in general betoken profound tonelessness. In many cases the eyes retain what seem to be voluntary movements, and may searchingly wander round the room — a phenomenon which suggests considerable sur- vival of sensation. Touch stimuli and stimula- tion of the special senses will usually elicit no response, but the application of mild pain is likely to elicit signs of distress. The reflexes in stupor are variable. The condition is apt to be mistaken by friends and others for obstinacy, or what they vaguely call hysteria, and we may here note some points in diagnosis. Stupor, for example, must not be confounded with stupidity such as occiu-s in myxoedema, in adenoid affections, or in other cerebral " toxications," nor with semi-comatose states induced by narcotics. The history of the case must settle the diagnosis, with special reference to rapidity of onset in anergic stupor, the existence of predisposing causes of insanity, and of such immediate causes as explain cere- bral neurasthenia — exhausting illness, shock, masturbation, etc. ; but there can be no mistake if the physician attends sufficiently to muscular, vaso-motor, and trophic symptoms, all of which evidence much more profound depression of function than in mere stupidity. States induced by hypnotism have a much greater resemblance to stupor, and may only be discriminated from it by circumstantial facts. In catalepsy (c/.v.) and in hysterical anergia, on the other hand, the symptoms of low-level depression may closely resemble stupor, but the mental impairment is slighter and transient. Coma, such as may occur in traumatism, apoplexy, the post-epi- leptic state, etc., may also be confused with stupor \niless the history of each case be studied. Then there is the interesting condition described as lethargy, which is not a real stupor, but a condition of prolonged sleep. Clarke (Amer. Jour, of Inmn., Oct. 1891) describes a woman who slept for seven years, then had a remission of symptoms for seven years, then fell asleep again for a spell of thirteen years. In her lethargic phase, when not asleep, she seemed quite alive to what happened, did not soil the bed, ate food slowly, but did not speak. After these momentary awakenings she just turned round and went to sleep again. The fact that she did not speak for eleven years brings the case near to stupor. She always slejat deeper at night. It is interesting to observe that stupor is the mental disease in which a mistaken diagnosis is most likely; and the reason is to be found in its primary and essential symptom, irresponsive- ness. The physician should consider this fact, that stupor is imr excellence a primary affection, characterised by its negative symptoms, as illus- trating the fundamental distinction between primary (negative) and secondary (positive) signs of mental disease. Melancholic Stupor.—This affection is much commoner than simple anergic stupor. In the latter the onset may be rapid, may indeed, after a great shock, for example, be almost imme- diate. Melancholic stupor is a slower develop- ment as a rule, is attended by obvious mental pain from the first, and usually follows bodily illness, or some other neurasthenic process, such as overwork, exposure to extreme heat, mas- turbation, or acute insanity. Concomitant with the bad spirits there is the anergia—the inability to intend and to carry out intentions. Listless- ness scarcely describes it. It is a disability as well as a disinclination for outward activities. In every case the impairment spreads outwards and downwards, and becomes evident in the flaccid muscles, torpid secretions, asphyxiated limbs, soft pulse, shallow respiration, trophic depression. These develop slowly, and as they progress, mental pain increases. In such cases sviicidal feelings and attempts are common, not usually of a deliberately determined kind, but of the impulsive variety. Melancholic stupor is prone to fulminating (explosive) activities. These may take almost any form—a shout, a somersault, a blow, destructive violence, homi- cide, suicide, or an epileptoid fit. Melancholic stupors must always be carefully watched. The mental content, so far as we know, is largely one of passivity. Many patients recall, on their recovery, things that happened during their stupor, incidents which occasioned bodily pain, —a fact which, as was said, would indicate less anassthesia than many authorities assume. Such cases end variously—often in recovery, which is frequently preceded by a maniacal phase, a low-level ideo-motor activity, which ushers in the recovery of the projective activities of the higher cortex. Delusional Stupor.—As Clouston argues, stupor is very rarely determined by a patient's delusion. In a few cases, perhaps, a sudden and abiding obsession (fixed idea) may explain the patient's immobility, such as that he is dead, or that the least movement may bring about some catastrophe. In the vast majority of cases, however, the delusion is the patient's apology for his stupor and not the real explana- tion of it. Finding himself muscle-bound he invents an account of his state—that he is made of glass, for example, or that his veins are full of mercury, that his head has dropped offi that his body belongs to some one else. Crudity is characteristic of stuporose delusions. They amply bear out what I liave said, that delusions are due to too little, and not to too much think-