HAY FEVER 54 A few words on prognosis must preface those in reference to treatment. In cases where we can find neither structural nor pathological ab- normalities, the prognosis is bad. All we can hope to do for such patients is to mitigate their symptoms as much as possible. Tlie cases that are best are those in which we find something- demanding operation, and the bigger the ob- struction the better the prognosis. The actual duration of the disease, whether the patient has suffered for few or many years, does not affect prognosis in any way. The most striking case of cure I have had was, without exception, the worst case in my experience. The patient, a man of intensely active mind and neurotic temperament, had for thirty years considered the whole of the summer a misery; yet he was completely cured by the removal of a large spur on the septum completely blocking the inferior meatus; and for ten years, so far as I know, he has had no return of symptoms. I do not think, either, that the general condition of the patient affects the prognosis; although it is of some consequence whether or no he be very neurotic. To differentiate a little further, the most suitable cases for surgical treatment are those in which we find the inferior meatus obstructed, whether by deviations or spurs of the septum, or by true hyperplasia of the erectile tissue; next to these come chronic engorgement of the inferior turbinated ; next, adenoids in children. Less amenable are cases of polypus obstructing the middle meatus ; and it is the fact of having seen polypi in typical hay fever cases, where the removal of the growths gave but little relief, which has in- clined me to the belief that the restoration of breathing through an obstructed inferior meatus is the essential factor in treatment. Further, we find cases in which there is no actual obstruction in either inferior or middle meatus. Opposite to the anterior extremity of the middle turbinal we often find on the septum curiously ill-defined oedematous and pallid swell- ings which obscure the view, and bring the septum into contact with the middle turbinal. Like engorgement of the inferior spongy bodies, they are boggy, and pit under pressure, while they collapse under cocaine in a few seconds. Destruction of these boggy swellings with the galvano-cautery is often attended with the hap- piest results. Presumably in these cases the trouble is due to direct irritation, which induces swelling of the mucous membrane where it abuts on the middle turbinal, thus evoking the whole train of symptoms. Such, on the whole, are good cases to treat. Let me repeat once more that the worst cases for treatment are those where we can find no structural or patho- logical abnormality to deal with. Where there is opportunity for operation we should advise it, although it is impossible to be absolutely sure of effecting a cure; indeed we geldom attain an absolute cure. Yet in this disease, as in all others of the nose, let us, in determining whether or no operation be necessary, re- member M'Bride's dictum that we should judge the nasal fossse by what they can do rather than by structural aberration from the strictly normal. In cases where surgical treatment does not promise much, what can we do ? The first and most common remedy is only mentioned as a warning against its use: it is cocaine. The mischief it induces is sometimes appalling, and the patients at the end of the summer are generally worse than if they had not used it at all. But the temporary relief it affords is un- questionable. Patients may begin with a 2 per cent solution, but are soon compelled to increase the strength rapidly, until they often end with a 30 per cent solution; and, finally, they be- come wrecks from the pernicious effect of the drug on the nervous system. I have seen two such cases in medical men, one of whom ap- peared to be developing symptoms of general paralysis, although he completely recovered as soon as he relinquished the habit. But there are other local remedies of distinct help : the old-fashioned compound tincture of benzoin, the bismuth and morphia insufflations, known as Ferrier's snuff, both may give relief, and, on the whole, Ferrier's snuff" is preferable to cocaine, although it does not arrest symptoms as decidedly. Sprays and lotions of borax, or boric acid, especially if combined with liq. hamamelis, are very soothing, and wash away accumulated secretion. The patient always likes such applications, though they must be used in very weak solution. A good method of applica- tion is for the patient to take the solution in a teaspoon, to hold the head back, and simply pour the warm fluid into the nose. Another remedy I have occasionally found singularly useful has been a solution of chi'omic acid, or i of a grain to the ounce, sprayed or poured into the nose tliree or four times a day or oftener, and held in the nose as long as pos- sible. I had one patient who would carry about her spray of chromic acid just as others will carry about their cocaine. Another patient, after two or three weeks' use of it, seemed to be completely cured, and had no return of the symptoms the following summer. A good deal was talked a few years ago of using bichloride of mercury. Dr. Carl Genth used it in a yyVo solution dropped into the eye, and allowing it to pass into the nose. I have heard two or three practitioners speak highly of it, and I have every reason to think it worth trying. Strong carbolic acid has been much vaiuited as a cure ; but I have seen so much mischief accrue from its incautious use that I cannot recom- mend it—at any rate so long as we have safer and more certain means of treatment. A 5 per cent solution of eucaine hydrochloride (A) some-