115 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM Diagnosis. — A bacteriological examination, unfortunately, in this disease is iisually of but little diagnostic help. Still, in every case, it is most desirable that a thorough investigation of the blood should be made. 1. As pointed out in the pathological portion of our article, leiccocytosis is generally well marked in cases of malignant endocarditis. This may prove of some diagnostic service in certain cases. 2. Many investigations have been made by numerous observers respecting the bacteriological characters of the blood, but with rather meagre results. The blood is best obtained by the withdrawal with a hypodermic needle and syringe (used, of course, with the strictest antiseptic precautions) of some 5 to 10 c.c. from one of the superficial veins of the arm. This is then mixed with a suitably prepared and liquefied agar-agar culture medium, poured into Petri's dishes, and allowed to develop under proper conditions. By such an examination streptococci and staphylococci have occasionally been found. This method, however, has not proved satisfactory for diagnostic purposes in most cases, as usually the organisms are not freely circulating in the blood, and even when they are exceptionally met with occur in very small numbers. 3. It is interesting also to remember that Widal's reaction has been obtained in cases which have ultimately been found to be associated with the evidences of a malignant endocarditis, probably developing during typhoid fever, or possibly due to the bacillus typhosus. Special Treatment.—Much of what is later said regarding the general management of cardiac affections is fully applicable to cases of malignant endocarditis. Since, however, the disease is dependent on microbial invasion various measures have been suggested with a view {d) to destroy the organisms; {b) to lessen or annul the influence of their toxic products. No medicinal agent is known which has been proved to directly destroy or arrest the develop- ment of the invading organisms. Various antiseptic and disinfectant drugs have been advocated, but their utility is very doubtful. Quinine, sulpho-carbolates, benzoates, salol and mercurial preparations have been used, and according to some with benefit in certain cases. Arsenic has been strongly recommended, and is sometimes advantageously combined with quinine. In a few cases hypodermic injections of pure yeast ferment have been administered. Nuclein and nucleinic acids have also been advised. All such agents, unfortunately, have proved quite inadequate in the majority of cases, and their use is not encouraged by Avhat is known of the bacteriology of the disease. The success of serum-therapy, however, in certain of the well-defined infective processes has suggested the application of such to malignant endocarditis. Hitherto the treat- ment has not always been conducted with the necessary scientific precision, and up to the present time the success has been very limited. Before any antitoxin can be administered with anything like bacteriological accuracy the excit- ing organisms must be detected. As indicated in the pathological section of this article, various diff'erent organisms are capable of setting up the conditions included under "malignant endocarditis." Unfortunately, in most instances, examination of the blood gives no help in ascertaining the particular organism present in the valves. Sometimes, however, when the primary infecting focus is known, or when an investigation of the infecting channel gives a strong indication of the probable organisms responsible for the endocarditic process, ad- ministration of the special antitoxin may not only be considered justifiable, but may prove serviceable. According to the nature of the specific irritant, antistreptococcic, antistaphylo- coccic, or antipneumococcic serums may be employed. The possibility of mixed infection must be borne in mind, so that, for instance, if a case following pneumonia is not benefited by anti- pneumonic serum the administration of Mar- morek's antistreptococcic serum may be justifi- ably tried. Physical Examination of the Heart The Physical Methods of Diagnosis.— Inspection.— In a suspected cardiac case the first point to be noted is the vascular condition of the neck. In nearly every cardiac case some evidence of abnormality in the circulation will be obtained on examination of this part: there will be exaggerated arterial pulsation, or there will be venous pulsation, while in aneurysm of the aorta, with aortic incompetence, there will likely be tracheal tugging when the chin is elevated. In many individuals free from cardiac disease in the ordinary sense there is some venous pulsation in the neck in the recumbent posture. On the other hand, there are certain peculiarly short-necked, stout individuals who even when suffering from cardiac disease give little evidence of visible pulsation in the neck, presumably because their vessels are so well hidden. In most cardiac cases, with enlarge- ment of the left ventricle, the carotid pulsation is exaggerated in some degree so as to form a noticeable feature of the neck. It is, however, in cases of aortic incompetence that the visible- ness of arterial pulsation reaches its greatest development, because in this disease there is the greatest variation between the maximum and minimum blood tension in the arteries. Increased visibleness of pulsation in the carotid