HIVES 249 Hives), and to croup; its derivation from the verb to heave is possible, but is with difficulty brought into consonance with etymology. Hoarseness. See Larynx, Chronic In- fective Diseases of [Laryngeal Phthisis, Dia- gnosis; Malignant Disease of Larynx, Symptoms); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Lung Symj^toms, Hoarse- ness) ; Mediastinum (Groivths, Sympfonis). Hobnailed Liver. .SeeLiver, Diseases OF [Portal Cirrhosis, Synonyms). Hodara'S Disease.—A variety of Tri- chorrhexis Nodosa. Hodg^e Pessary. *See Uterus, Dis- placements OF {Retroversion and Retroflexion, Treatment). Hodg'kin'S Disease, ^^ee Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lympha- denovia); Thymus Gland {Diseases, Enlargement and Persistence). Hoffa'S Disease.—Fibrous, pseudo- inflammatory hyperplasia of the adipose tissue under the ligamentum patellae. See Sinding- Larsen's article in the Norsk Mag. f. Laegevi- densL, 5 R. vol. iii. p. 248, 1905. Hoffmann's Anodyne.—.S^jm^ws uEtheris Compositus ; consists of alcohol, ether, and the heavy oil of wine. The last-named is a complex ethereal compound made by mixing sul- phuric acid and alcohol. Dose—60-90 m. ; 20- 40 m. if repeated. It is an excellent carmina- tive, and is serviceable in the treatment of hic- cough, flatulence, palpitation from indigestion, tobacco heart, and angina pectoris during the attack. Too rapid volatilisation of the ether gives rise to difficulty in swallowing the drug, and it should therefore be given in capsule or in iced water. It probably owes its action chiefly to the ether contained and not to the heavy oil of wine, as has been generally supposed. Holland. See Balneology {Holland and Belgium). Hollands. See Alcohol {Spirits, Gin or Hollands). Holmg'ren'sTest. -S'ee Colour Vision {Methods of Testing by Coloured Wools). Holoacrania.—That variety of anen- cephalus or acrania in which there is complete absence of the cranial vault and cerebral tissues. See Teratology. Holoblastic Segmentation.— That form of segmentation in which the ovum {e.g. the mammalian ovum) in its entirety is converted into a mass of cells and forms the morula or mulberry mass. *S'ee Embryology. Holocaine Hydrochloride. — A substance allied to phenacetin; occurring as small colourless crystals, soluble 1 in 55 of water. It has been used as a substitute for cocaine for operations on the eye. The advan- tages claimed for it are that it does not dilate the pupil, does not affect intra-ocular tension, does not roughen the corneal epithelium, and has no vascular effects. It is usually employed as a 1 per cent solution. HolO^astrOSChisiS. — The teratolo gical type in which there is defect of the anterior abdominal wall in its whole extent from sternum to symphysis pubis. HolorhachiSChisiS. — The teratolo- gical type in which the whole spinal canal from end to end is open, every one of the A'ertebral arches being imperfectly developed ; it stands in opposition to merorhachischisis, in which the spinal canal is open in one region only. See Teratology. Homalomyia scalaris.—One of the privy flies whose larvte may be found in the stools in gastro-intestinal myiasis. Homatropine.—An alkaloid, having a mydriatic effect, obtained from atropine. Hom- atropine (CjgH^jNOg), in the form of the hydro- bromide (CjgHjjNOgHBr), may be given in doses of ^-^ to grain, or applied locally {e.g. in eye practice) as the Lamellm (discs) Homatropiince, each of which contains grain of the hydro- bromide. See Alkaloids ; Belladonna ; etc. Homburg". See Balneology {Muriated Waters, Germany); Mineral Waters (i/wr/aiecZ Saline). Homicide.—The killing of a human being by another human being, classified as justifiable, excusable, and felonious or culpable. <S'ee In- sanity, Nature and Symptoms {Homicidal Melan- cholia) ; Medicine, Forensic (Wounds, Homi- cidal) ; Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility, Insane Acts). Hominy.—A preparation of maize, un- deprived of its proteid, but having only i per cent of fat. See Diet (Vegetable Foods, Cereals). Homo-.—In compound words homo- (Gr. 6/xds~, same) has the meaning of similar, and is opposed to hetero-. Homo Caudatus. Not Teratology only but Anthropology and Ethnology are all concerned in the discussions which have taken place regarding the occurrence of " tailed infants"; homo caudatus or uro- anthropos (Taruffi) has always excited curiosity and aroused controversy. In Mythology, also, the records of tailed individuals and races are not wanting.