INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 494 —paranoia and degeneracy. Any one who cares to make reference to recent English work, to say nothing of American and continental, will wonder why we have not entirely discarded the term paranoia. One could hardly conceive a greater discrepancy in scientific opinion than occurs for example in the accoimts of paranoia given by Clouston (last edition), Bevan Lewis (do.), Campbell Clark, and Macpherson, in their text-books, and by Conolly Norman in Allbutt's System of Medicine. Paranoia, however, is the subject of a special article by Macpherson {q.v.), and it is best that we should restrict the term in this work to the interpretation which he puts upon it. And as to degeneracy the same confusion prevails. The degenerate is, in fact, as has been said, very elusive except in his superlative degrees, and we err on the safe side if we withhold our diagnosis of him except in that form, that is, as a criminal, either in intention *or in fact, a person incapable of morality and usually of a correspondingly degraded physique. Considering that the human mind is ad- mittedly and properly regarded as having three great aspects, thought, feeling, and will, it would be strange indeed if a great many cases of incidental insanity were not chiefly character- ised by disordered thinking, without a propor- tionate volitional and emotional disturbance. All the same, the prime fact about intelligence is its inevitable correlation with all other aspects of mind. No one proposes, or could possibly expect, that a patient should reveal simple delusion. Bevan Lewis goes so far as to say that "monomania is evolved out of melancholia and maniacal perversions—as a special derivative of these conditions, and as one of the termina- tions in chronic insanity." So far as I know, he is alone in that opinion. But, in any case, monomania is descriptive of but a few delusional cases. Before a patient becomes delusional, that is, when his thinking mechanisms fail in their higher phases and become active on a lower level, some mental pain, of however short a duration, must be presumed, as it always must be in states of cerebral exhaustion. But that does not constitute melancholia. Nor do delusional cases always conform to what we have agreed upon as the secondary character- istics of mania—an excessive activity of an outward form on reduced levels. Delusion is not such an excessive activity. We cannot repeat too often that delusional cases as a rule suffer from too little, and not from too much thinking. Patients who entertain delusions, if they thought enough, would realise that they were believing nonsense. There are many cases of melancholic delusion, or delusional melan- cholia, just as there are others of maniacal delusion, or delusional mania, cases in which, with the essential signs of melancholia or of mania, disordered tliinking is conspicuous. So also with stupor. Such cases have been referred to. But those are not the delusional insanities now to be considered. They constitute the connecting links between melancholia, stupor, and mania on the one side and simple delusion on the other. For all the types of insanity that we are considering have alloys which closely connect them one with another. Even in one case we may observe insanity manifest in melan- cholia, stupor, mania, and quiet delusion in successive stages. When a patient "loses his head," that is, when the mechanisms of normal personality fail, he may be reduced to a level of painful self-regard, which is melancholia; or suffer also an abnormal resistance in the mechanisms of expression (projective), which is stupor; or become outwardly active on a lower level, which is mania; or he may suffer a rapid dissolution of all his mental functions, which is dementia. But another alternative remains of a systematic kind, which may characterise his insanity. He may be reduced to a level of consciousness in which his attention is chiefly and conspicuously, and to an excessive degree, occupied with beliefs. That is the form of insanity—a disorder of opinion — with which we have now to deal. The primary form of such insanities is a con- dition of confusion, in which the patient does not know what to believe. The secondary form is delusion, in which he believes the wrong thing. Both in confusion and in delusion the mental content may be one of depression, or, with grandiose delusion, it may be one of exalta- tion, but in neither case need there be that degree of depressed activity or of excessive activity which characterises melancholia and stupor or mania. CoNFUSiONAL INSANITY.—On this subject the unwary physician is apt to be misled by the contradictory and uncritical accounts of con- fusion which prevail. In particular, many observers conclude that, because a patient's statements are confusing or confounding, he is therefore confused. But the reverse is usually the case. A patient may believe several irrecon- cilable and even contradictory things and yet be quite sure about each. That is not a con- fusional state. The term Confusional Insanity only applies to patients who are bewildered and in doubt and hesitating. That is a state of mind whicli occurs as a passing phase in nearly all insanities. But it sometimes persists for a long time as simple confusion, and may resolve, so that the patient then recovers; or it may go on to delusion generally with hallucinations. The disease is analogous to folie de doute or swithering insanity—a condition of bewilder- ment and hesitation in conduct. Confusional patients always suffer from an excess of suggestion. They cannot entertain simple beliefs, but are beset by innuendoes and corollaries. In all such cases there are cerebral