418 INFLAMMATION carefully studied in tlie experimental production of abscesses. There is first an accumulation of lymphocytes in the affected area, and tlien emigration of polymorpho-nuclear leucocytes from the neighbouring blood-vessels occurs. Tiiey collect around the cocci, which are mean- while multiplying rapidly, and being largely ingested by many of the leucocytes. The liquid exudate from the blood-vessels collects in the tissue spaces, and may help the excretions of the cocci (the main agents) to digest and liquefy the formed tissues of the part. Upon a free surface the liquefied tissues escape and leave an ulcer. In a deep-seated part they collect as a liquid mass containing cocci, degener- ated leucocytes, and tissue debris, and form an abscess. The liquid contents are called pus. Bacteria are generally present in acutely formed abscesses, but often absent, having disappeared in chronic ones. They are always seen in greatest numbers at the margins of the abscess, and it is here also that phagocytosis is most active; and further, so long as the suppurative process is extending, the cocci are observed in the tissue spaces outside and beyond the leucocytes, whereas the I'everse is the case when it has ceased to spread. It is the polymorpho-nuclear and the large hyaline uninuclear leucocytes which act as phagocytes. It is generally held that the coarsely granular eosinophile leucocytes, which are present in very small numbers in the normal blood, but plentifully in the tissue spaces, never act as phagocytes. The writer, has, how- ever, seen them crammed with gonococci in gonorrhoeal discharge. The bacteria ingested by these various phagocytes can in many cases be shown to be still active and virulent, and capable if liberated of exerting their specific action, while in other cases they are degenerated and inert, and dying or dead. Relying upon this and similar arguments, and particularly upon the reactions to irritation exhibited by leucocytes in the lower animal structures, such as the tadpole's tail and tissues of the inverte- brata generally, the opinion that phagocytosis is always a beneficial process has received much support from pathologists especially in recent times. It has been likened to a struo^ole be- tween the leucocytes and bacteria, in which both strive for the mastery. If the former should prove victorious the disease will be arrested and cured, and vice versa, the disease will continue and extend. This doctrine can no longer be upheld. It is undoubtedly true that phagocytosis may be a beneficial process. This is seen in many of the acute suppurative inflam- mations caused by the pyogenic cocci, and in other instances where the leucocytes ingest and destroy active and vigorous bacteria, as in in- fectious catarrhs of mucous membranes, where the leucocytes, by migrating to the surface, remove the bacteria from the affected part. On the other hand, it has been proved that the power of killing bacteria does not rest with the leucocytes alone, but is possessed in a much higher degree by the blood serum, lymph, and tissue fluids generally, and also by the fixed tissue cells which may act as phagocytes. Further, the leucocytes ingest solid particles of all kinds seemingly as readily as gei-ms. They can be made to ingest nutritive particles, fat globules, pigment granules, red blood cor- puscles, etc., by mere physical contact therewith, or after stimulation with various chemical solu- tions. Therefore the suggestion that phago- cytosis is fundamentally of a nutritive nature seems as reasonable as that it is protective. In many cases, indeed, it can be shown to have a hurtful and not a beneficial action, as when leucocytes containing virulent bacteria migrate to healthy parts and there form a new focus of disease. The mere imprisoning of the bacteria within the protoplasm of the leucocyte does not render them harmless, as they may not only preserve their virulence intact, but increase it, since the leucocyte protoplasm may form a suit- able and favourable bacterial nidus. Phago- cytosis, while often playing an important part, cannot be held to be an essential phenomenon of inflammation, as it may be entirely absent in typical instances thereof. The leucocyte emigra- tion is a wider phenomenon. It leads to an accumulation of leucocytes in the inflamed area which may be conveniently spoken of as a leucocytosis. The amount of leucocytosis varies within wide limits, being dependent upon several factors, the chief of which is the nature and intensity of the noxa and the anatomical struc- ture of the affected part. While emigration from the blood-vessels is the chief source of the leucocytes, some, never many, come in certain cases from the wandering cells of the tissues, and others from an actual division of leucocytes m situ. They are rarely if ever produced by the transformation of fixed tissue cells, although this has been said to occur by more than one observer through the degeneration of muscle cells. According to the more restricted con- ception of inflammation, the presence of blood- vessels, either in an area or near it, is necessary for the possibility of the production of inflam- mation, and inasmuch as leucocyte emigration is the chief source of the leucocytosis which con- stantly occurs in its establishment, it must be regarded as being one of the essential pheno- menon of such inflammatory processes. Accord- ing to the wider acceptation of inflannnation, which holds that blood-vessels are not at all necessary, the leucocytosis becomes still more important. The cornea is the structui'c which has been most widely chosen for experimentation in this relationship, for it is anatomically a non- vascular tissue. Its marginal parts (sclerotic) are so plentifully supplied with blood-vessels, that it is hardly possible to set up irritation in its central parts without transmission to these