HYPERTROPHY 288 power and proneness to exhaustion, without alteration in the mechanical or electrical irrit- ability, may also be mentioned. It would appear to be more closely related to the pathological hypertrophies than to the functional type. 2. Hypertrophy from Irritation,. — Many in- stances of this will at once suggest themselves. As examples of overgrowth due to recurring pressure or friction, corns, various trade cal- losities, and milk spots on the pericardium may be cited. Chronic inflammation often results in a hypertrophy of the connective elements in its neighbourhood, as seen in the thickening of the pleura and periosteum after pleurisy and peri- ostitis ; the induration of the skin met with in chronic eczema has a similar origin. For the immediate cause of the hypertrophy in such cases we must look to the hyperaemia and con- sequent increase of nourishment caused by the irritant. We have already seen that while hypersemia will not cause overgrowth of gland- ular or muscular organs unless at the same time there is increase of function, that is, unless the cells are stimulated to utilise the increase of nourishment, the cells of the supporting struc- tures of the body, whose function is a passive one, are more directly dependent for their growth on the amount of nutriment supplied to them. 3. Pathological Hypertrophies.—In the above- mentioned instances the hypertrophy has been, if not physiological, yet in the main beneficial, and its proximate causes, at least, have been fairly recognisable. But we have also to deal with a series of cases in which the hypertrophy is usually harmful, and in which the causes are by no means clear. Thus senile enlargement of the prostate stands on the borderland of the physiological and pathological; it is a common sequel of advancing years, and in some cases it approximates to a tumour, yet, unless it give rise to urinary symptoms, it can scarcely be looked on as a disease. The enlarged thyroid of Graves' disease, the hypertrophy of the pitui- tary body found in some cases of acromegaly, the enlargement of the spleen found in some cases of antemia, congenital syphilis, and rickets, the adenopathies of Hodgkin's disease, the hyper- trophied thymus found in some infants, which may at this age be the cause of sudden death from suffocation, the hypertrophic changes in the bones accompanying certain chronic lung diseases, and the exostoses of the facial bones in leontiasis ossea, are a few examples of this group. Some of them appear to be primary maladies, others to be the results of the associated disease, while in other cases they are more closely allied to tumour growths. 4. Congenital hypertrophy—or, as it is more correctly termed, hemi-hypertrophy—is a rather rare condition. In its most typical form it con- sists of a total hypertrophy of one-half of the body involving the head, trunk, and extremities. the asymmetry being complete in every respect, even extending to the ears, tonsils, two halves of the tongue, and external genital organs. The differences in size may best be illustrated by a few measurements of a case observed by the writer. Ears, 4-5 and 4 cm. long; arms, 18'5 and 17 cm. in length, 15'5 and 13'5 cm. in girth; legs, 25-5 and 22 cm. in length, 24-5 and 17 cm. in girth; mid-sternum to spine at level of nipples, 20'5 and 17'5 cm. The hyper- trophy involves mainly the soft parts—the skin, muscles, and connective tissues ; the bones them- selves, however, are affected in many cases, especially where the length of the limbs is different on the two sides. The overgrowth is as a rule most evident in the more distal parts of the limbs—in the hands and fingers, and feet and toes. The skin is sometimes more active on the hypertrophied side, the hair is thicker and more abundant, the nails are coarser and grow more quickly, and the eruption of the teeth is earlier. The temperature is often, though not always, a degree or two higher on the affected side, and the hypertrophied parts are more susceptible to heat and cold. As a rule the muscular power is greater on the side of the hypertrophy. There are no nervous symptoms, and the internal organs are normal. There remains only one prominent feature of such cases to be mentioned: the presence of nsevi and other cutaneous vascular anomalies. These exist in a large proportion of the cases, sometimes in the form of simple capillary nsevi, occasionally of larger telangiectases. At times the skin appears normal while the patient is at rest, but when he cries or is excited large patches of cutaneous congestion, differing from nsevi only in their temporary duration, are produced. These vascular abnormalities are never strictly unilateral, but are more or less generally scat- tered over the body. Another not infrequent appearance is a condition of marbling of the skin like that seen in pseudo-hypertrophic para- lysis. True congenital hypertrophy is always stationary, the relative size of the parts "being preserved throughout life." Not all cases, however, conform to the descrip- tion we have just given. Hemi-hypertrophy is much more commonly limited to one limb, or even to a single digit, than widely spread in its distribution. A large number of cases have been reported where hand and foot alone have been involved. We may regard all these— simple non-progressive hypertrophies, usually strictly unilateral, with preservation of the normal appearance of the parts, without the occurrence of tumours or other deformities, the skin often being the seat of vascular anomalies —as belonging to the group of " true congenital herai-hypertrophies." In another group of cases—"false hyper- trophies "—a somewhat different condition ob- tains. In them the abnormality is usually more