HERNIA 193 accord with the experience of most hospital surgeons to say that taxis applied for one or at the most two minutes is sufficient to reduce a hernia that can be with safety reduced. A longer application than this will produce such 1 2 c ./? 3 4 Complete False Reclvctiov. Fig. 1.- A. Sac and contents in normal ijosition. Fig. 2.—B. Sac and contents displaced "en masse." Fig. 3.—C. Rnpture of sac near the neck. Pig. 4.—D. Properitoneal sac. damage in the gut as to render its reposition unsafe. When the patient is fully prepared for operation, and under the ansesthetic, a further brief attempt at reduction may be made, but failing then, the surgeon should proceed at once to operation. Umbilical hernia, whether strangled or not, is a much more serious matter. The operation for the radical cure with us during the last fourteen years has had a mortality of 6-5 per cent, for strangulated hernia the mortality has been 56"4 per cent. The argument for early operation is tlierefore equally valid here. Details of the Operation.—Immediately the hernial sac is opened the fluid contained therein should be emptied out and the sac with its contents washed gently but efficiently with hot sterile salt solution. The gut is then inspected. A. If found to be living, the strangulating agent should be divided and the loop of bowel pulled further out of the abdomen, in order that the line of constriction may be examined. On no account should the finger be introduced into the neck of the sac with the idea of stretching the ring to permit more readily of replacement. If the deep groove which marks the point of constriction V)e not seriously damaged the bowel may, with gentle manipulation, be returned. If there is a line of ashen-grey slough this may be infolded by a layer of Lembert's or Halsted's VOL. IV sutures, and the gut replaced. Any omentum present may then be dealt with. Adhesions are often present, but it is not necessary to separate them, a process which is both slow and tedious. Traction on the omentum will bring the non- adherent part above the constriction into the sac; a series of ligatures is applied, and the omentum cut across below them. The neck of the sac is then ligatured and divided, and the sac and the adherent distal portion of the omentum are together stripped up and removed. A radical cure may be per- formed tlien by any of the usual methods. £. If found to be in a doubtful condition the loop may be drawn, after division of the constriction, well down into the wound, and left there a few minutes for inspection. If there is any evidence of a gradual return of the natural colour the gut is still living; if there is none, and especially if the veins of the mesentery are felt to be blocked, the gut, if not dead, is certainly doomed. If, however, doubt still lingers, the gut may be returned just within the abdomen (where, owing to its paresis and the rapid forma- tion of filmy adhesions, it will remain), and a tube passed down to it. Experience has abundantly shown that if the gut should give way its contents will in general pass along the hernial track and a fsecal fistula result. Or, and preferably, the loop of bowel may be drawn outside the wound, covered with a protective dressing, and left for 24 or 36 hours, then re-examined and dealt with according to its condition. C. If found to be gangrenous two courses may be adopted.^ 1. The strangled loop, with the implicated mesentery, may be excised, and the divided "ends of the bowel stitched iip, with or without a mechanical appliance. 2. The bowel may be opened with or without division of the constriction and an artificial anus formed. As modifications of this procedure may be mentioned the introduction of a Paul's tube after slitting open the bowel, or the stitching of the opened gut to the skin. In not a few cases where the gut has been laid open without division of the stricture the acute obstruction has continued. A careful division of the stricture without undue disturbance at the upper part of the sac can do no harm, and is therefore generally desirable. Which of these two courses is to be adopted must depend upon many conditions to be care- fully weighed by the surgeon. It must be admitted at once that whenever possible resection should be performed. A notable argument has ' The method of Helferich has been so seldom practised that its value is not yet determined. It consists in drawing out a loop of gut and uniting the ends by means of a Murphy button. The hjop is then lelt, covered by an antiseptic dressing, and resection performed when the patient has rallied. 13