HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF •240 gluteus maxinnis. At the lower part it divides the tendinous insertion of the same muscle on the outer aspect of the trochanter, exposing the insertion of the gluteus medius. Blood-vessels are ligatured as they are divided. The edges of the divided maxinius are held apart. A layer of fat is then divided, exposing the gluteus medius and minimus and pyriformis muscles. The wound is deepened in the interspace between the medius and minimus above and the pyri- formis below. By drawing the pyriformis down- wards, access is obtained to the posterior surface of the capsule and of the acetabulum. The cap- sule of the joint is divided along either the upper or the lower border of the pyriformis tendon. The insertions of the gluteus medius and mini- mus are detached from the trochanter from behind forwards, along with the periosteum and the cortex of the bone. The detachment is to be effected as far forwards as the anterior inter- trochanteric line, and to allow of this the thigh should be flexed and rotated outwards. The ilio- femoral ligament is detached at the same time. The thigh is then flexed and rotated inwards to allow of the detachment of the insertions of the pyriformis, obturator internus, gemelli, and obturator externus from the inner and posterior surfaces of the trochanter and from the digital fossa. This separation should also include the periosteum and the superficial shell of the bone. In this way the muscles supplied by the superior gluteal nerve (the gluteus medius and minimus) are drawn forwards and upwards towards the tensor fascia; femoris, which has the same nerve- supply, and which, along with the glutei, is of importance for the future abduction of the thigh, while the remaining muscles, which are mainly supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve, are dis- placed backwards. When the muscles are drawn apart the posterior surface of the head and neck of the femur and as much as is necessary of the great trochanter are exposed. Branches of the internal circumflex artery running transversely over the capsule at the neck of the femur are secured as they are divided. The diseased synovial membrane may be cut away with scis- sors from the posterior and upper aspects of the joint. The thigh is now strongly adducted, rotated in, and flexed, the ligamentum teres is divided by cutting on the head of the bone from behind and below; the head is then dislocated backwards, exposing the acetabulum and the anterior segment of the synovial membrane. The acetabulum is cleared of tuberculous tissue, special attention being directed to the removal of caseous or necrotic lesions. If the head of the femur is sound it may be replaced within the acetabulum; if it is diseased it must be removed. Iodoform is rubbed into all the sur- faces exposed to the tiiberculous infection. The divided ligaments, periosteum, and muscles are in tiu-n sutured with catgut. A drainage-tube is brought out througli a special opening behind the trochanter. The limb is fixed in an attitude of marked abduction, so that when the patient ultimately assumes the'erect posture he will be obliged to depress the pelvis on the affected side in order to restore the parallelism of the limbs. The apparent lengthening thus induced will compensate, in part at any rate, for the actual shortening. The abducted position is secured by means of the double long splint already described. The drainage-tube is removed the day following the operation. The stitches are removed at the end of a fortnight. In a hospital patient a case of plaster of Paris is then applied for two months ; thereafter he begins to walk with crutches. As regards the result of the operation we are qute satisfied with a close fibrous ankylosis, for this ensures a strong and useful limb, and dimin- ishes the chances of a relapse of the disease. The anterior operation of Parher and lliiter is performed as follows:—The patient lies on his back. An incision is made through the skin and fat from a point immediately below and external to the anterior superior iliac spine downwards and slightly inwards for about three inches. The fascia lata is divided in the line of the wound. Search is then made for the inter- space between the tensor fascife femoris and gluteus minimus externally, and the sartorius and rectus internally. The muscles being- drawn apart, the capsule of the joint is exposed and freely divided; the head of the femur is then removed after dividing the neck of the bone by means of a broad chisel; the whole interior of the joint is now readily accessible to the finger, and is thoroughly cleared of all tuber- culous material ; special attention is directed to the neck of the bone and to the acetabulum. The operation is completed by stitching the edges of the divided capsule, the muscles, and fascia lata, and finally the skin. The limb is fixed in an attitude of marked abduction. If. in the course of either of the operations described an abscess is met with, it should be cleared out at once before opening up fresh layers of tissue. If there occurs a fresh out- break of tuberculous disease in the scar of the wound, it is probably the result of infection of the tissues exposed during the operation, and it should be promptly dealt with by free excision of the parts involved before it ruptures exter- nally. The formation of abscess at any subse- quent period should be dealt with on the usual lines. Amputation at the hip-joint for tuberculous disease has become one of the rarest operations in surgical practice. It may still be required in cases which have continued to progress in spite of excision, e.g. where there is disease of the pelvis or of the shaft of the fennir, with septic sinuses, albuminuria, and hectic fever. In such cases the surgeon must be prepared not only to disarticulate at the hip-joint, but also to remove a portion of, or the entire innominate