INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 465 purposelike activities are no longer possible, the fashioning of demented tools, and futile construc- tiveness of various kinds, are quite common. In social life also comes the opportunity for the thinking consciousness—a phase of mind which we cannot recognise in any considerable degree on a lower plane. The first form of it was probably very practical—the thinking out of means to secure very near ends. But only in the security of a society was there possibility also for the speculative form of thought—the kind of intelligence which, curious and filled with wonder, began to ask questions and to seek a reason for things. That kind of mind has probably become rapidly more common with the pacification of the world. It is to be noted as in a cycle which, leaving the more abstruse problems to the philosophic aristocracy, comes back again to the practical problems with which science deals. But the important fact to note concerning early gregarious life is that thought and feeling and purpose were probably determined by what we may call the subordinate mode of conscious- ness—one which looked at things from a social and not from a strongly individual point of view. Each man and woman grew up to regard the tribe as the main thing, and the self as of subordinate importance. But primitive man fell away from this mode of consciousness, when he began to regard himself as more than all the rest. When, in a society made safe and com- fortable by combined effort, man orientated sufficiently to regard himself as apart from his neighbours, personality as we understand it began. Departing from tradition, men here and there achieved the conception of a personal career; and in that conception, other men and women, as well as everything else in the world, were to be made use of. That notion of a career —from the most humble to the most proud and ambitious—is implied in the habitual human consciousness of to-day. And it is in the struggle between each other that the greatest stress falls upon the organism. When men learned this too great self-regard, insanity as we know it became imminent. For in the sense of indi- vidual responsibility and in the sense of personal failure are the greatest subjective occasions of mental disorder. In polite society, however, no matter how occupied a mind may be with a personal career, good manners and a civilised morality have become essential. These are often lost in insanity, and the consciousness frankly and rudely disregards other people. Says Maudsley: " By insanity of mind is meant such derange- ment of the leading functions of thought, feel- ing, and will, together or separately, as disable the person from thinking the thoughts, feeling the feelings, and doing the duties of the social body in, for, and by which he lives. . . . How- ever it has come about, whether by fate or fault, VOL. IV he is now so self-regarding a self as to be incapable of right regard to the not - self; altruism has been swallowed up in a morbid egoism." That denotes what, in more purely psychological terms, Bevan Lewis calls "the rise of subject-consciousness" in melancholia. For it is chiefly in melancholia that reduction occurs from the subordinate to the self-regarding con- sciousness. In other insanities, notably in moral imbeciles, it is obvious that the subordinate consciousness is still beyond the reach of many. And in perhaps the majority of men a domestic ideal, which still does not have great regard to the good of the race as a whole, is the utmost attained to. Yet is our evolution, if anything, a return, on a higher plane, to that primitive but very moral purpose which determines to think most of people in general and not of one- self in particular. But besides all that the human brain has acquired from its ancestral experience, we must take note also of its prospective developments. I have said that all possible evolution of human brain was inherent in nervous tissue from the first, and that the nervous system embodies in some degree not only all the unrecognised memories of previous experience, but also the potencies of all that awaits human character. Whatever men and women are going to be fifty, or a hundred, or a thousand years hence, is inherent in the brains, though not present in the minds, of to-day. For the unique quality of nervous structure, as compared with other kinds of tissue, is its plasticity, that it is apt for differentiations of infinite multiplicity ap- propriate to any and every condition of life. Men's minds grow and change in relation to an environment which is steadily becoming more complex, and in that evolution an unlimited plasticity of cerebral structure is implied. And while, in average mortals, new character only comes in response to altered conditions, the foremost of the race are those whose personality is precocious, whose minds and whose brains are in advance of their time. Here again we must suppose an automatic maturation of nerve- structure, a preparedness of mechanisms for conditions which have not yet arrived. And that precociousness of brain is not only characteris- tic of genius, but pertains in some degree also to all who are of robust cerebral vitality, and is pre-eminently the quality of the imaginative mind. As a quaint conceit we may suppose that some people are born into the world which does not recognise their genius, and which calls them insane, persons who perhaps know, or who at least surmise, a great deal too much. A great many quite intelligent mystics believe that we are on the eve of astounding spiritual developments, that the coming race, for example, will develop sensibilities which will transcend the material limitations to which we now 30