H^MOMANOMETER 36 HasnriOITianOITie'ter.—An instrument for the determination of blood pressure. Haemomenas Praecox.—The para- site of malignant or festivo-autumnal malarial fever. See Malaria {Blood in Malignant Fever). Hse mo meter. See HiEMOGLOBiNOMEXER. Haemo-Pericardium.—Thepresence of effused blood in the pericardial sac. See Aorta, Aneurysm {Course and Terminations, Ruj)ture); Chest, Injuries of ( Wounds of Heart and Pericardium) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {General Pathology, Morbid Pro- cesses, Haemorrhage). Haemo-Peritoneum.—The presence of effused blood in the peritoneal cavity. Haemophagocytes. — The white corpuscles in the blood as distinguished from those in the tissues. Hasmophilia. Etiology ...... 36 Morbid Anatojiy 36 Symptoms 36 Diagnosis ...... 37 Treatment ...... 37 See also Adrenal GIlands {Adrenalin); As- pirator, Uses of {Abscesses in Haemophilic Patients); Cautery {Ped Heat, in Hoemophilia); HiEMATEMESis {Causes); Heredity {Inheritance of Disease); Joints, Diseases of {Bleeders' Joint) ; Leucocytosis {Leucopenia). HEMOPHILIA, or the congenital htemorrhagic diathesis, is a congenital hereditary disease, characterised by a liability to spontaneous hsemorrhages, to excessive bleedings from trivial causes, and to joint affections. The morbid tendency persists throughout the life of the affected individual, who is termed a " bleeder." Etiology.—Heredity and sex are important factors in the production of the disease, yet its actual cause is unknown. Thus the disease occurs in males, females being very rarely affected. Transmission does not as a rule take place directly from father to son, but almost always through seemingly healthy members of the female line, who are often exceedingly fertile, to the male descendants. A somewhat similar mode of transmission of disease is observed in pseudo - hypertrophic paralysis, Friedreich's ataxia, and occasionally in diabetes insipidus and colour blindness. Apart from heredity, there is no obvious cause for htemo- philia, which is met with in all the human races, in various countries and in all ranks of society. Consanguinity of the parents, and a history of gout in the ancestors, are probably merely accidental circumstances. Morbid Anatomy. — Post - mortem there is anaemia of the tissues and organs, and in many instances also ecchymoses, blood extravasations into the organs, or effusions into the body cavities. Other changes, such as fatty degenera- tion of organs, thinness of the arterial coats, and abnormally narrow vessels, are not constant, nor are they caiisal factors. The joints may present morljid appearances from hsemorrhages into their cavities, but in more chronic cases there is thickening of the synovial membrane, with fibrillation, and degeneration of the articu- lar cartilage, the changes in short resembling those seen in rheumatoid arthritis. There is no proof that the blood differs from the normal as regards its chemical constitution. When a bleeding first starts the microscopic appearance of the blood is quite normal, and coagulation is normal also. But if the blood be examined after a severe haemorrhage, there will necessarily be signs of auEcmia, and the blood " resembles water in which fresh meat has been washed and scarcely stains linen" (Legg). Coagulation, too, is then very deficient, or does not occur at all. The essential nature of the disease, in short, is unknown, though generally held to consist either in some abnormality of the blood- vessels, or in an abnormal state of the blood whereb}- clotting is retarded or altogether in abeyance. Symptoms are classified under three head- ings: (1) Spontaneous or traumatic external hsemorrhages; (2) Interstitial hsemorrhages ; (3) Joint affections. 1. In a small percentage of cases the disease manifests itself soon after birth by severe um- bilical hsemorrhage. As a rule, however, the child is about a year old before any signs appear, the subjects of haemophilia being usually quite normal as regards their general appearance, physiognomy, nutrition, etc. The earliest sign is often a severe external haemorrhage after some trivial wound, and as the boy grows older he suffers frequently from these uncontrollable bleedings after various forms of traumatism, such as slight cuts, tooth extraction, circum- cision, opening of abscesses, etc. The haemor- rhage is usually capillary, and is characterised by its severity and the great difficulty with which it is checked, blood oozing away slowly but steadily, it may be for days or weeks in succession. Or the bleeding may be spon- taneous, and is then more often from the mucous and serous surfaces. In early life these bleedings often occur as severe epistaxes, less commonly as bleedings from the gums, and after the beginning of the second decade there is a greater tendency to intestinal, urethral, renal, gastric, or pulmonary haemorrhages, than in infancy. Effusion of blood into the peritoneal cavity is occasionally seen. 2. The interstitial hajmorrhages are either spontaneous or occur after traumatism. In the