HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 145 Space will not permit our considering the classes of purgatives seriatim, and we will refer only to special drugs and compounds. Few purgatives can rival the pulv. Jalapse co. of the B.P., which, however, at least in hospital prac- tice, has to be given in larger doses than the official—60 grains being not at all too much in many cases. Sir William Broadbent believes that mercury has special virtue in lowering arterial tension, and in this relation its well- known antiseptic powers in relation to toxins in the alimentary canal are worthy of note. On theoretical grounds the saline purgatives may be thought to be specially applicable in the treatment of heart disease, as the free exudation of fluid they occasion into the intestine must relieve the congestion of the portal circulation and of the liver. For this purpose they ought not to be administered largely diluted. But when given alone they do not stimulate the peristaltic movements of the bowel sufficiently to ensure the quick removal of the exuded fluid, so that it is actually possible that this may be later reabsorbed into the vessels. It is desirable, therefore, to combine the salines, of which sul- phate of magnesium is the one most commonly used in the treatment of heart disease, with some drug capable of stimulating the bowel to increased peristalsis. The " black draught " of most hospitals is some such combination, to which a carminative is added. One sharp purge is better than the frequent repetition of less active ones; we hold that patients with heart disease should not be exhausted and their hearts thus still further debilitated by frequent or con- tinuous purgation. The great indication for purgation is high arterial tension, and the many forms of cardiac failure so associated no doubt formed the ground on which the common prac- tice of purgation in heart disease was based, that is to say, it is in cases of this kind that the best results are obtained from purgatives. There is one remedy that so strongly makes for righteousness in treatment that it cannot possibly be ignored in an account of the manage- ment of cardiac cases:—It is morphine admin- istered hypodermically, and usually guarded by a minute dose of atropine. Nevertheless, its use is directed to the relief of one distressino- O symptom only of cardiac failure, and not to the restoration of the circulation. The symptom in question is dyspnoea—the symptom which sur- passes even angina pectoris as a cause of suffering when we regard its frequency and duration in comparison with those of angina. To Dr. Clifford Allbutt we are indebted for the introduction of this precious remedy. It should always be given hypodermically, and, as a rule, combined with atropine. It is impossible to lay down rules in detail as to dose. The treatment should be begun with infinitesimally small doses in order to see how the patient bears it, and then it is easy to increase the dose up to the point of VOL. IV affording relief without incurring risk. The frequency of albuminuria in cardiac cases with- out serious implication of the kidneys must be borne in mind. Moreover, in the distressing dyspnoea of the cardiac failure of actual Bright's disease the writer has repeatedly found the remedy to act like a charm, and to prolong life in comparative comfort, only in cases of the kind an exceedingly small dose, say of a grain well guarded with atropine, must be used at first, though it will often be found that ^ oi a grain of morphine can be given with perfect safety and with perfect elfectiveness. Blocking of the bronchial tubes with secretion the writer regards as a stronger contra-indication as to the use of morphine than kidney complication. In heart cases which require no remedies directed im- mediately to the heart, but in which it is all- important to maintain the general health at a high standard, a mixture of liquor strychnise and liq. arsenici hydrochlor. 4 or 5 minims of each, given in water simply and after meals, will be found very useful. Occasionally it is well to stop the arsenic, and give the strychnia alone, and before instead of after meals. Iron, no doubt, is an excellent general tonic, and a precious remedy when there is aneemia in a heart case ; but the writer is inclined to think it has become too much a matter of routine to give it to patients suffering from heart disease, and in most of those in middle life and older, whose cardiac failure is apt to be associated with high arterial tension, he thinks it often does harm rather than good. Sleeplessness is not rarely a distressing sym- ptom in heart disease, and one which in it, as in pneumonia and typhus, taxes the resource of the physician to the utmost. Timidity and rashness must be equally eschewed. Those who err on the side of the former the writer would remind that sleeplessness is a terrible " tendency to death " in all these diseases, and that to let a patient die without attempting to save him is as bad as running risk in the attempt. But happily, with ordinary care, such risk is in- finitesimal, and lies specially in lung and kidney complications. In heart cases insomnia is often associated with dyspnoea, and the remedy which is most efficient for the latter is best for the former, namely, morphia, given hypodermically. Among other drugs that may be used for sleep- lessness are chloralamide and urethane. The approximate dose of the latter—which must be determined by the circumstances of the case— should be kept dissolved in sp. vin. rectif., and added to water at the time of administration. With regard to urethane, it is a safe but a weak drug, and has generally to be given in large doses. Shortly after the drug was introduced, a patient of the writer's, a bad rheumatic heart case, received by accident an overdose, but the only undue consequence was that the patient, as well as sleeping during the night, slept nearly 10