INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFP]CTIONS OF 543 taken, is not always possible during the earlier stages. The case is likely to be one of intestinal obstruction if the patient, previously in good health, has been seized with sudden pain, which is much increased at times, if there is entire inability to pass flatus, and if vomiting is an urgent symptom. The next proceeding is to make a complete examination. The abdomen should be freely exposed, the patient lying with shoulders raised in an easy posture, and in as good a light as possible. The hernial sites are to be first care- fully examined, not only the ordinary ones, but the extraordinary as well. An absent testicle on one side would suggest a strangulated hernia, possibly hidden in the inguinal canal. It is impossible to overrate the importance of a careful examination for hernia in the first place, for the most skilful practitioner, if he should forget this, will sooner or later commit an error fatal to his patient; indeed, I go further, and teach students that the first thing to be done in every case of urgent vomiting is to examine carefully the hernial sites, whether the patient considers it necessary or otherwise, and to believe if a hard lump is found there that this has ever-ything to do with the condition until the contrary is proved by operation. The whole abdomen should then be systematically and carefully inspected, palpated, and percussed. A rectal examination must never, under any circumstances, be omitted, and in women, when possible, a vaginal examination should also be made. 2. Where is the block ? In acute obstruction the probabilities are that the block is in the small intestine, and in chronic obstruction that the block is in the large. The reason for this is that chronic obstruction is mainly due to stricture of the intestine, and the majority of strictures are malignant and in the large intestine. Though this general rule holds good in the majority of instances it has many exceptions. I have seen acute sudden obstruc- tion produced by malignant strictures at the ileo-c£ecal valve, at the hepatic and splenic flex- ures of the colon, and in the sigmoid flexure; and in one of the most chronic cases that has come under my notice the obstruction was in the middle of the jejunum, and due to adhesion and kinking of the'bowel. Pain localised by the patient may be of use as a guide to the site of the obstruction if the localisation is made quite early in the case. Pain, however, is a doubtful help, as it is mostly referred to the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. A tender spot is a much more certain guide, and becomes of great importance if a swelling or feeling of resistance is felt: in its neighbour- hood. In chronic obstruction the patient may feel pain which begins or ends at one spot, and flatus rumbling in his intestines may be felt by him to stop there. On inspecting the abdomen, in exceptional cases, moving intestinal coils may be seen, and their movements may be directed to one particular spot; and on palpation the peristaltic wave may be felt to be arrested there, producing a feeling of temporary firm tumour under the examining hand. This, in chronic cases, is a valuable guide as to the site of the obstruction. A careful examination should be made in the early stage, because shortly the general swelling of the intestines which takes place is likely to obliterate any landmarks. The shape of the abdomen is an aid in forming an opinion as to whether the obstruction is situated in the large or in the small intestines. When the small intestine is involved low down the abdomen becomes globular in form and prominent in the middle line, a similar disten- sion to that caused by an ovarian tumour. When the large intestine is involved the abdo- men is flattened and bulging at the sides, as in ascites, and may be enormously distended. A flattening at the left side, with enlargement on the right, points to an obstruction in the com- mencement of the transverse colon, the swell- ing on the right side being constituted by the distended cajcum and ascending colon. If it can be made clear that the caecum is distended the obstruction is certainly below this point. In some cases the distension of the caecum is quite evident. It may be seen to swell up intermittently, to contract, and to harden, and peristaltic waves spread from it along the ascending colon towards the right costal margin. The abdominal swelling will also, in the early stages, be limited to the right half of the abdomen. There may be splashing on concussion of the ctecum. The pain and contraction are felt by the patient, and may be seen to begin in it. A ladder-like arrangement of the distended intestine, seen in some chronic cases, is an aid to localisation, for this occurs only when the small intestine is involved. Very firm and pain- ful contractions, in which the distended intestine becomes as hard as the contracting uterus, occur, so far as I have seen, only in the small intestine, for the colon and the stomach contract more slowly and more feebly than the small intestine. Vomiting in the case of obstruction of the small intestine is more rebellious than in the large, and sooner becomes faecal in character. In the case of the large intestine vomiting is usually a late symptom, and is rarely ftecal. The general condition of the patient is more serious in small intestine cases. Depression and feebleness are more marked. In cases of chronic obstruction of the small intestine anuria is a symptom of value, and is due to limited absorption of fluids and to their loss by vomiting.