234 HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF or absence of the movement of rotation; for example, if a patient exhibits abduction and flexion, and it is possible to elicit rotation move- ments, the probability is that he is not suflPer- ing from disease in the joint, but from some affection in its neighbourhood. Swelling, although rarely a prominent feature, should be looked for on the anterior aspect of the joint; wlien present it may fill up the fold of the groin, and may project forwards the femoral vessels; it is doughy and elastic like the white swelling of other joints, but may at any time liquefj' and form a cold abscess ; swell- ing about the trochanter and neck of the bone may be estimated by measuring with calipers and comparison with the sound side; the absence of swelling does not preclude the existence of grave lesions in the interior of the bone. Swelling on the pelvic aspect of the acetabulum may be discovered by rectal ex- amination. Third Stage.—The patient now presents un- mistakable symptoms of hip disease character- ised by adduction, inversion, increase of flexion, and apparent or real shortening of the limb. It probably corresponds with well-developed cai'ies of the articular surfaces since pain is now a more prominent feature, and there are usually " startings at night." This stage is less often met with nowadays because the diagnosis and treatment of the disease in its earlier stages are better and more generally known. As far as the attitude of the patient is concerned, the flexion is iisually so pronounced that it can no longer be concealed by lordosis, so that when the patient is recumbent, although the spine is arched forwards, the limb is still flexed both at the hip and at the knee ; when the spine is flat on the table, the flexion of the thigh may amount to as much as a right aiijile. The adduction varies very much in degree; when moderate in amount it is compensated for by raising the pelvis on the affected side; this results in apparent shortening of the limb ; it is of great importance to understand the cause of this shortening, since it can be prevented by treatment. It is the result of an effort on the part of the patient to restore the normal parallelism of the limbs, the sound limb being abducted to the same extent as the affected limb is adducted. As a result of the obliquity of the pelvis, the patient wlien erect exhibits a scoliosis of the spine with the dorso-lumbar convexity to the sound side. When the adduction is very pronounced the patient is unable to restore the normal parallelism of the limbs, and the knee on the affected side may cross the sound limb; there is a deep groove at the junction of the perineum and thigh, the pelvis may be tilted to such an extent that the space between the lower ribs and the iliac crest scarcely admits the fingers, and there is great prominence of the trochanter. In the slighter degree of adduction, which is more often met with, the toes of the affected limb rest on the dorsum of the sound foot, as in a traumatic dis- location on to the dorsum ilii. The attitude described above is at first the result of muscular action, but when it is pro- longed or permanent, the fasciae, ligaments, tendons, and especially the adductor longus, become shortened, so that it may be impossible to correct it without division of the contracted soft parts. If the case is left untreated further changes may take place as a result of the pressure of the carious articular surfaces against one another, viz. absorption of the head of the femur, progressive excavation and displacement of the acetabulum, so that the upper end of the femur is drawn gradually upwards and back- wards within the socket. Examination will then reveal the existence of a variable amount of actual shortening; it will also be found that the trochanter is displaced above Nelaton's line, and that it is nearer the middle line of the body, while above and behind the trochanter there is a prominent hard swelling correspond- ing to the margin of the enlarged acetabulum. At this stage there may be a combination of real and of , apparent shortening which may amount to several inches. If, as very rarely happens, the original attitude of abduction has been maintained throughout, we may have a combination of apparent lengthening and of actual shortening. In cases of long standing there may be an additional cause of shortening in the shape of retardation of the growth of all the bones of the limb. Shortening from dislocation will be re- ferred to later. During the third stage the other signs and symptoms become more pronounced : the patient becomes pale and thin; he is usually confined to bed ; his sleep is disturbed by " startings " of the limb; the rigidity of the joint and the wasting of the muscles are very striking. Any elevation of the temperature is exceptional; it may rise slightly after a prolonged examination of the limb, or after a railway journey, or from abscess formation. Any marked elevation of the temperature, apart from septic complica- tions, should make one suspect the develop- ment of tubercle elsewhere, or of general tuberculosis. Abscess P'ormation in Hip Disease.—The formation of abscess is not related to any par- ticular stage of the disease ; it may occur before there is any deformity, or it may be deferred until the disease has apparently recovered. The site of abscess and the direction in which it spreads is influenced by its seat of origin and by the anatomical arrangement of the parts con- cerned. The abscess may be solitary, or there may be several. They appear either in the thigh or in the pelvis, more commonly in the thigh.