HYSTERIA 309 creating a special nervous condition. To hyster- ical traumatism must be attributed the railway spine, the railway brain, and the traumatic neurasthenia of German authors. All accidents are apt to provoke manifestations of hysteria, as for instance bites, blows, earthquakes, surgical operations, etc. The severity of the traumatism Is not so important as the mental impression produced. It is undoubted that poisons, both acute and chronic, are powerful agents; the commonest are lead and alcohol, sulphuret of carbon, tobacco, and morphia ; these produce ordinary hysteria without peculiar character- istics. Infection also gives rise to hysteria, acting, according to Potain, like an internal traumatism. The commonest forms of such infections are typhoid fever, pneumonia, rheu- matism, ague, blennorrhagia, and syphilis. Other general maladies, such as diabetes, scia- tica, and gout, have the same exciting action. Certain morbid conditions favour the neurotic tendency, such as anaemia, and sexual excess and nervous disorders, such as disseminated sclerosis, tabes, and myopathy. The true cause of hysteria is manifestly hereditary predisposition. Briquet's statistics prove that in nine cases out of ten hysterical parents have hysterical children. The cases may be traced to indirect as well as direct heredity; the subjects have had epileptic and neuropathic ancestors. A neurosis often passes over one generation. Grasset proves that scro- fulitic, consumptive, arthritic, alchoholic, and syphilitic ancestors produce an hysterical race. Hysteria may appear at any age. With men and women alike it is most frequent between the ages of 19 and 25 years, frequently at the crisis of mental and physical puberty. It is rare before the age of 6 or 8 years, and excep- tional after 40 years. The researches of Marie, Souques, and ChaufFard prove that hysteria is commoner among men than among women in the lower ranks of society, probably because the artisan class is more exposed to traumatisms and poisons (alcoholic, etc.). Women suffer more in the upper and middle ranks. No race or climate is exempt; hysteria seems to have a marked predilection for the Jewish race. Symptoms.—It will be convenient to discuss these in the following order: (a) convulsive attacks; {b) motor and sensory disorders; (c) visceral manifestations. It is well to bear in mind that in some cases numerous symptoms coexist, while in others the symptoms present themselves in an isolated manner—"mono- symptomatic hysteria." Hysterical Convulsions Convulsive phenomena are frequent in hy- steria, more especially in women. According to Pitres 82 per cent of cases in women have convulsions, and only 22 per cent in men. In men, however, the violence of the attack makes up for its rarity. An attack of hysteria may appear in various degrees. A violent attack is called "hysteria major" or "attack de la Salpetriere," a less violent attack "hysteria minor." The attack itself may present anomalies. A. Great Attack.—Its different phases are shown in the following table borrowed from Charcot and modified by Grasset:— /Tsychic trouble and hallucina- tions Disorders of the organic func- tions Disorders of mo- bility (VSensory disorders Phase at commencement "v Tonic phase I With movement ?}r=<&cularresol-ri:Sbi5r« ution / Second period, or "| Period of contor-1 ^^^^^ contortions or Premonitory period / Prodromata I. Aura hysterica tions and violent movements Clownism Third period Fourth period disordered attitudes / Period of emotional atti- l tudes or plastic poses rPeriod of prolongation. I Period of delirium. -! (Delirium, liallucina- I tions, zoopsia, dis- orders of movement.) Premonitory Period.—The symptoms consist of psychic phenomena, followed by somatic phenomena. Several days before the attack the patient is dull and depressed, and desires to be alone. In other instances there is increased nervous irritability, the patient laughs and cries, and is unreasonably agitated. He sleeps badly, and has dreams and nightmares; he has hallucinations attended with anfesthesia, he sees black and red animals, and his hearing is abnormally acute. His will-power at this stage is still strong enough to avert or arrest the attack. Other complications coexist with these psychic phenomena, the appetite is irregular and capricious, nausea and vomiting supervene, with hiccough and abdominal distension (tym- panitis). The saliva is abundant, the quantity of urine increased, and the patient is troubled with flatulence, laryngeal spasms, etc. Palpi- tation, hurried breathing, alternations of flush- ing and pallor, sensations of heat and cold, also ensue. Other phenomena are cramps, shiverings, slight trembling of the legs, general weakness, and temporary contractures. After this prodromal period the true aura makes its appearance, and marks the com- mencement of the actual attack. The ovarian aura is the most frequent, and merits a detailed description. The abdomen becomes painful at the level of the zone occupied by the ovaries; the pain, at first local, spreads over the whole surface of the abdomen, which is now tender to the touch; the disorder then rises to the throat, and the well-known sensation of the globus hystericus is produced, accompanied by palpitation and a sense of