INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF 510 without waiting for a judicial reception order. The reason for urgency may be either the wel- fare of the patient or the public safety. When a patient is detained under an urgency order he must be released at the end of seven days unless in the meantime a petition for a judicial reception order has been presented to a judicial authority; but if within seven days such a petition has been presented, then he may be detained under the urgency order imtil that petition has been disposed of. There is at the present time a measure before Parliament which, if it becomes law, will reduce the period of in- dependent validity of the urgency order from seven days to four. The inquisition is a measure to which recourse is had only when the property of the lunatic is considerable, or when he demands an inquiry into his sanity with a view to his release. It is of the nature of a trial at law, and the function of the physician with regard to it is merely to give evidence when called iipon. An inquisition re- sults, if the petitioner is wholly successful, in the appointment of a committee of the person and of a committee of the estate of the lunatic, who are responsible to the court for the proper performance of their duties. Each committee may consist of one or more persons, and the same person or persons may act in both capaci- ties. It is competent to the court to find that the lunatic is unfit to manage his affairs, but fit to manage himself, and in that event no com- mittee of his person is appointed, and his personal liberty is not restricted. Scotland. — Idiots and imbeciles under 18 years of age may be received into training schools in Scotland without certification or other legal formality. In practice, however, pauper children are invai'iably sent thither under the same formalities as are used in the case of adults sent to other institutions for lunatics, with the addition that the consent of a com- missioner must be first obtained. The reason for this procedure is that when so sent only is the school entitled for each child to a 4s. grant. When above the age of 18, and when sent to institutions other than training schools, idiots and imbeciles are in Scotland classed as lunatics, and are subject to the same formalities. Insane persons whose maJady is not confirmed may be placed in private care for a period not exceeding six months, under the special certifi- cate of one medical practitioner, and without other formality. The ordinary procedure in pauper and non- pauper lunatics is the same, and requires a petition to the sheriff accomyianied by a state- ment of particulars and the certificate of two medical practitioners. In the case of a pauper the petitioner is the inspector of poor. If the case is urgent, a certificate of emergency by a single medical practitioner sufiices to author- ise the detention of the patient for three days. This certificate must be accompanied by a re- quest, from the person in the position of peti- tioner, to the superintendent of the asylum, to receive the patient. In addition to these provisions, the Scottish law provides a process termed interdiction, which has no counterpart in English, though it re- sembles certain proceedings in French law, with which it has a common origin in the jus civile. Interdiction is a legal restraint or incompetence fixed upon persons who are prodigal, or are too easily influenced by others, and disables them from alienating their property without the consent of guardians, who are called interdictors. Inter- diction may be voluntarily entered into by the interdictee, or may be compulsorily enforced upon him by the Supreme Court, and in the latter case the decree of the court may be granted either upon the initiative of the rela- tives of the prodigus, or upon the initiative of the court itself, founded upon its own ob- servation of the conduct of a party to a suit before it. The proceedings of cognition and curatory are analogous to the inquisition in English law, from which, however, they have wide differences. If successful, they result in the appointment of a committee, or, as he is called, a curator, to ad- minister the estate of the lunatic; but there is no functionary corresponding to the committee of the person of the lunatic. Ireland.—The formalities differ according as the patient is to be taken to a district asylum on the one hand, or to a licensed or unlicensed private house on the other. Pauper patients who are not dangerous are admitted into a district asylum upon four documents :—1. Declaration before a magistrate stating that the patient is insane and destitute, and giving names, etc., of two relatives. 2. Certificate of a magistrate and a clergyman, or poor law guardian, that they have personally inquired into the case. 3. One medical certifi- cate. 4. An engagement by the applicant to remove the patient when called on. Paying patients who are not dangerous require five documents to authorise their admission into a district asylum: — 1. Declaration before a magistrate that the patient has not sufficient means to pay for support in a private asylum, and has no friend who can do so, and stating how long the patient has been resident in the country. 2. Certificate of a magistrate and a clergyman, that the case has been investigated. 3. One medical certificate signed by two medical practitioners. 4. An engagement to remove, together with an engagement to pay a specified sum. 5. The sanction of an inspector of lunatics. The proceedings above described are so cum- brous that in practice the great majority of patients in the district asylums of Ireland are admitted as dangerous lunatics. Any person