448 INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF found that cases of insanity are referable to these classes—adverse circumstances, anxiety, worry, domestic trouble, fright and nervous shock, love affairs (including seduction), over- pressure and over-strain, and religious excite- ment. After what has been said little remains to be added in elucidation of these headings. It is not so much steady, hard work with intervals of relaxation that is the cause, as the worry and scurry of life, the anxiety as to means of liveli- hood, the real troubles of existence. The excitement of politics leaves little trace on asylum records, while a finaucial crisis surely sends its victims to asylum care; and although religious excitement does not figure largely in the statistics of insanity, yet many cases occur showing delusions tinged by the religious move- ments of the time. Passing to physical causes—what has been said elsewhere of alcoholic excess need not be repeated. Excess of sexual nature, over-exertion, malnutrition, and toxic agencies are all regarded as fertile exciting causes. The physical stress is apparent in such cases. We also find cardiac lesions in a great proportion of cases admitted to asylum, directly correlating rheumatic de- generative lesions with nervous deterioration. Patients with cardiac incompetence also occur through over-exertion in athletics, affecting the nutrition of the brain directly. The lesions of epilepsy, general paralysis, organic diseases of the brain, are referred to elsewhere, and their connection with this subject is evident. We have still to consider the results of peri- pheral nervous irritation in the production of insanity. Schroeder van der Kolk directed special attention to what he called sympathetic insanity. He found that a great number of his patients suffered from constipation and were relieved by suitable treatment. He therefore laid the blame of their mental troubles on the peccant great intestine. That view was of im- portance in directing attention to the physical condition generally, but it does not seem that it can now command any considerable amount of support. The constipation is rather attributable to the defective action of the nervous system, and is a mere symptom of a more widespread and basic disorder. Similarly, recent attempts to correlate the insanity of women with xiterine and ovarian disease can meet with no marked approval. The modern and probably correct belief is that the insane manifestations are due to disorders of the brain, and while it is very likely that certain of these disorders are due to toxic influences—perhaps owing to intestinal fermentation, or to deficient action of the ovaries — it would be absurd to confine our attention to the treatment of symptoms of peri- pheral irritations. We would not be misunder- stood ; the physical condition of every insane person demands the most searching investiga- tion, adequate treatment of every departure from healthy action is imperatively required. While that is so, however, our later knowledge of nervous processes forbids us to lay stress on the peripheral conditions to the exclusion of the central mischief. And, further, these visceral neuroses must be studied in less complicated conditions if we would be successful in dealing with them in the insane. Professor Clifford Allbutt's lectures on this subject should be the book of reference in clearing the mind of specialism, and entering the freer air of general medicine. There are also such causes as traumatism and sunstroke. These are of sufficient importance as to demand separate consideration. Dr. van Gieson has demonstrated by microscopical methods a very similar morbid process in the brain cells in both of these conditions. The shock is sudden and nutrition is immediately and gravely affected. We cannot, however, but entertain doubts as to statistics of the incidence of sunstroke, for a case who has been resident in tropical climates is never sent to an asylum without sunstroke being alleged as the cause. We would venture to suggest that malaria is far more efficient and common in this relation than sunstroke. Again, in the evolution of the individual critical periods of life occur, and the stress of these periods tells heavily upon those who are burdened with a nervous inheritance. Puberty, adolescence, the climacteric, have each their special dangers, and it is in accordance with the laws of heredity that those most seriously affected by degenerative conditions will be earliest affected by insanity. Senility, on the other hand, if not premature, is the natural expression of failure of the brain after the exhaustion of a long life. Yet again we observe a critical and exhaustive, if not a toxic condition supei'vening upon pre- gnancy, parturition, and lactation. These varieties of stress are familiar to every medical practi- tioner, and there is undoubtedly a disposition to minimise or overlook neurotic manifestations in connection with reproduction, a disposition which is a danger to doctor and patient. The physician should be urgent to guide matters aright when these abnormal signs first become apparent. There yet remain two rather rare but in- teresting causes of insanity, viz. communicated and epidemic. Much has been written in refer- ence to these cases, which have acquired a new and increased interest in connection with the later developments of our knowledge of hypnotic states. The other considerations relative to the in- cidence of iusanity might rather be held to fall under a statistical inquiry. The heaviest rate of occurring insanity falls on the years 35 to 4.5 in this country, but in the United States of America the greatest liability appears to be from