INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF 449 20 to 30. The question of sex is complicated by various considerations—the tendency being towards a slight increase of female cases, yet leaving the proportions nearly evenly balanced. With regard to condition as to marriage it may be concluded that, at marriageable ages, and in proportion to the population, considerably more married than single and widowed persons are admitted to asylums. Prodromes.—This article would fail in prac- tical value if some account of prodromes and prophylaxis were omitted. We shall therefore proceed to discuss the results of causation in their general and earlier manifestations, and give some indications of the measures which may be adopted with hope of success. The penalties paid for inattention to the laws of health are heavy and various. They are not only exacted from the transgressor, but also from his progeny. The prodromata are of special interest, and demand early recognition and prompt treatment. Dr. Clouston has devoted his attention to the neuroses of development, and has set forth his observations in the Morrison Lectures for 1890, and separate articles will be found in this Emydopcedia dealing with epochal insanities. These may be briefly referred to as adolescent, climacteric, and senile. But the insanities of childhood and the neuroses of early life also demand attention, and preventive medicine must be called into action. These symptoms are forebodings of nervous instability likely to eventuate in serious mischief, e.g. sleeplessness, headache, inability to perform mental work, loss of attention and self-control, unusual irritability, crazy reckless conduct, morbid fears and indecision. The nervous child is often precocious, a victim to night terrors, subject to convulsions consequent on derange- ments of digestion or the peripheral irritation of intestinal worms, or the troubles of dentition. The caprices, explosive rages (fulminating psy- choses), and similar incidents, are often made light of by parents who, being themselves neurotic and unstable, are singularly unfitted to manage their own children. The morbid arrangement of the nervous fabric is forced upon our attention, the motor manifestations are evident, and conduct becomes so abnormal that it is hardly to be overlooked by the most superficial observer. These are assuredly in- dications for treatment, mental and physical. Separation from injudicious influences, the edu- cational provision of a competent nurse of equable mind and adequate training, association with other children of normal development, are imperative. Here is a wide sphere for the em- ployment of women, in educating and training children of self-centred, ill-regulated habits before these habits become fixed and unalterable. And the association of these children with others, so as to develop normal feelings with normal social instincts, is hardly less important. We must VOL. TV ever remember that these children are not merely nervous, but that in their hereditary misfortunes such facts as tuberculosis, gout, cancer, and other maladies may have a place. It is only of late that the cardiac diseases of childhood have been sufficiently recognised even amongst the leaders of the medical profession, and every asylum physician is familiar with the fact that cardiac complications are to be found in a very large proportion of the cases he receives for treatment. This wise guidance is a duty laid upon general practitioners; the specialist is called in too late when a definite malady is declared. We must look to the family doctor to direct the parents in their duty towai-ds their children. That opens larger responsibilities than the apothecary dreamt of, but it is in strict accordance with modern tendencies, and it is thus that "doctors will become," in Gladstone's memorable saying, "the future leaders of nations." Year by year we must see the com- monwealth advance in relation to the hygienic and moral control of individuals, not by sump- tuary laws or impulsive legislation, but by a true education which will lift the people out of squalor and ignorance and fit citizens for the work of the nation. Thus education will no longer be anchored to ancient formulte and circumscribed by dead ideals; the process of cramming will be thoroughly and finally discredited; and the individualising of each scholar will be the aim of enlightened teachers. For the neurotic precocious child ordinary present-day education is a real danger. This has been partially recognised by the establish- ment of schools for backward children in Leicester, London, and elsewhere {see Mental Deficiency); but we have generally failed to control the forward child, whose lively memory and tricks of imitation carry it into the perils of a one-sided development of the nervous system,^ and often result in disaster. The nervous system is all-pervading, and for the due exercise of every part education must be extended in order to develop every function. Seeing and hearing are necessary to a real assimilation of instruction ; yet not only the printed type and the teacher's monitions, but all the avenues of knowledge must be opened up to permit of a general cerebral assimilation. As every muscle is repre- sented in the cerebral cortex, so should every muscle be scientifically exercised. In short, the aim and object of all education must be to secure the sane mind in the sound body. Hygienic.—That leads, of course, to the con- sideration of the dangers of unhygienic practices in forms familiar to all. At puberty, when there is danger of the degenerate, endued at conception with a deficient vital force, failing to develop, the precautions above indicated must be redoubled. There must be rest as well as exercise. The l)rain must not be allowed to rust in idleness, 1 See article "Hysteria in Cliildhootl," p. 325. 29