INFLUENZA 432 phenomena of the disease, especially the nervous symptoms, exhibit " important modifications according as they affect more or less irritable individuals; in hysterical and such other patients influenza often assunies a pronounced nervous or spasmodic character. In the case of hacmorrhoidal affections, and in the rheumatic or gouty diathesis especially, the muscular pains will occur. With young children symptoms of congestion of the brain are often seen, and this perhaps may be the explanation of the unfavour- able result sometimes observed in their cases." Perhaps also the form of the disease which Finkler has called " chronic influenza" should be included among the atypical or aberrant varieties. When Finkler asserts that influenza may assume a chronic character, he refers to the actual continuance of the influenza bacilli and to a resulting chronic broncliitis or chronic pneumonia. Various authors, among them Pfeiffer, Wassermann, Beck, and Kruse, have assured us that the bacilli of influenza may repeatedly be found in the sputum for weeks and months. In such patients cough and ex- pectoration persist after the influenza has seemingly passed away; and, without any known cause, at intervals of a few days or a few weeks, the symptoms of a bronchial catarrh return, so that again and again cough and expectoration increase — to decrease in turn, probably without medical attendance or treat- ment. In these chronic cases of influenza, Finkler says he is prepared for everything which occurs in the acute form—sudden fever, neuralgia, attacks of perspiration, digestive disturbance, asthmatic symptoms, coryza, sore throat,—all these reappear without warning, alternating in such a manner that the patient often attributes the cause to a " change in the weather." Only a bacteriological examination —which should always be made—will distin- guish such cases from a bronchial or pulmonary tuberculosis, or from a secondary diplococcus infection. Effects on Different Systems The statement made above that influenza seeks out the weak point (locus minoris resist- anticf) in an individual gives a clue to the multiplicity and severity of the complications and sequels of the disease. The liespiratory Tract.—As was to be antici- pated, the poison of influenza falls with special violence on the respiratory tract. In Dublin, during the first quarter of 1890, 973 deaths were referred to diseases of the respiratory system, exclusive of phthisis. This number was 34 per cent in excess of the average for the corresponding quarter of the previous ten years. The deaths from bronchitis were 654, against an average of 507, or an excess of 29 per cent. Those from pneumonia were 211, or 79 per cent above the average. Foremost among the secondary affections which complicate influenza stands pneumonia, to which the heaviest death-roll is paid by the victims of the primary or influenzal infection. But, in this instance, the term pneumonia must be taken in a generic rather than in a specific sense. As a matter of fact, broncho-pneumonia, true lobar (croupous) pneumonia, and cellular (influenzal) pneumonia are well-recognised varie- ties of lung-inflammation which occur in or after influenza. Leyden, in a communication to the Medical Society of Berlin, states that the pneumonias observed by him showed a peculiar course— severe pain in the side and dyspnoea were rarely noticed ; the local process was not altogether typical; frequently it was necessary to watch for three or four days before any evidence of a localisation of the disease was forthcoming. Then a crepitating rale was heard over a wide area, and this perhaps the very next day would have disappeared to show itself in some other situation. Not very often a firm hepatisation occurred with clearly mapped out dulness. Again the typical sputum of pneumonia was often wanting. Bacteriological investigations revealed the presence of three kinds of microbes: (1) Diplococci, which represented the well-known pneumonia - diplococci of Frankel; (2) Strepto- cocci ; (3) Staphylococci. Leyden adopted the view that the forms of pneumonia are different —typical genuine pneumonias with deviating course ; mixed forms, especially in those com- bined with pleural effusion; lastly, simple streptococci pneumonias. Ribbert, discussing the possibility of a causal significance of the Streptococcus pyogenes in re- lation to the phenomena of influenza, alludes especially to the inflammation of the hmgs, whose peculiar erysipelas-like spread, on which Finkler lays so much stress, and whose anatomi- cal relations admit of being referred back to the influence of the streptococcus. Ribbert points out that, in contrast to ordinary' croupous pneu- monia, the cut surface of the hepatised lower lobe in three cases presented an almost smooth appearance, the exudation was soft, very rich in cells, and poor in fibrin (hypinosis). Cultiva- tion experiments with the tracheal mucus, the lung tissue, the spleen, and the kidneys, fur- nished in five out of eight cases the Streptococcus pyogenes, or else the Streptococcus erysipelatosus (which has been shown to be identical with the former), the presence of which microbe could be demonstrated in the sputum also of the in- fluenza ]iaticnts. His investigations on the whole yield the result that in all cases in which micro-organisms were at all capable of demon- stration, the Streptococcus pyogenes was found. Only once was there in addition a coccus which had a great resemblance to the Diplococctis pneumonicH and probably represented a modifi- cation of the same.