338 ICHTHYOSIS however, temporary improvement occurs in the winter. Cou7'se.—Ichthyosis is generally observed in the first few months of life, and is not often well marked before the third year is reached. After this age the disease becomes gradually more marked as the child grows older, and reaches its maximum of severity at about the age of ten years, thereafter persisting through- out life, perhaps improving somewhat in summer, only to relapse again in the winter. The fact that the disease appears some months after birth, may in part be explained by the action of the amniotic fluid during intra-uterine existence, which prevents the skin from becom- ing dry ] and in addition to this the frequent washing of infants tends to keep the skin soft, and so reduce to a minimum the early evidences of the disease. When cases are reported as being cured, or as having started after the period of childhood, an error of diagnosis must always be suspected. Temporary improvement may and often does occur after specific fevers. The disease in all cases must be considered as an incurable one. Causation.—Heredity appears to be the sole factor in its causation, and ichthyosis may be looked upon as the most hereditary of all skin diseases. In a large number of cases, relations either in direct or collateral branches of the family are similarly affected. Although males and females suffer in about equal proportions, there is a remarkable tend- ency for the disease to be limited to the children of one sex in a family. As in all other congenital affections, parents will sometimes offer explanations for the appear- ance of the disease in their children. These are generally of the nature of "maternal impres- sions." Ichthyosis is stated to be endemic among two Albanian tribes on the shores of the Adriatic (Tablonowski), and also in Hayti and Paraguay. Differential Diagnosis. — In ordinary cases there is seldom any difficulty in recognising the nature of the disease. The rough, dirty skin, more marked on the extensor surfaces of the limbs, its onset in infancy, its persistence through life, and family distribution, together form a well-defined clinical picture. In the first few weeks of life it may be con- founded with a condition described by Hallo- peau and Watclet as " exfoliation lamelleuse des nouveaux-nes," which is probably identical with the ichthyosis sebacea of Hebra. In this condition the epitrichial layer of cells, which normally is cast off in the seventh month of foetal life, persists at birth in the form of a thin, smooth pellicle like a layer of collodion which is gradually cast off for about two weeks, the infant after that period having a perfectly normal skin. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology. — Micro- scopical examination shows the condition of the skin to be due to an exaggerated cornification of the cells of the rete Malpighii with very pro- nounced thickening of the horny layer. The stratum granulosum, so conspicuous in sections of normal skin, is entirely absent. The rete Malpighii, accordingto some observers, is thickened, and its cells abnormally large. Others hold that thinning of this layer is char- acteristic. The hair follicles, with the sebaceous glands, are in an atrophic condition, while the sweat glands in most cases appear to be perfectly normal. The opinion generally held is that the disease is a primary defect of the cornification of epi- dermic cells, and that consequently it should be looked upon rather as an inherited malformation of the skin than an active morbid process. Associated with the changes in the epidermis, inflammatory changes are sometimes observed in the true skin, and are considered by most observers to be secondary to the primary disease. Unna, however, is of an opposite opinion, and concluding that the inflammation is primary, he classifies the disease as an " Infectious inflam- mation.'' Treatment.—The disease, it must be remem- bered, is practically incurable, but treatment, if carefully carried out, may materially alleviate and keep it under control. The treatment should be directed with a view to remove the dirty and unsightly scaliness, to keep the skin soft with artificial lubricants, and to protect it from any irritation liable to set up the dermatitis which is so apt to occur. Warm baths, to which are added alkalies, borax, bran, or starch, and the use of alkaline soaps, are very suitable for mild cases and especially for children. For more severe cases in addition to the daily baths, glycerine, diluted to suit the tolerance of the patient, should be frequently rubbed into the skin. By this means the skin becomes soft and smooth, and may be kept in this condition by regular use of lotions containing glycerine, or by the use of lanolin, vaseline, cold cream, or other fatty substances. When the epidermis is too thick to be removed by these simple means, salicylic acid in the form of an ointment, cream, or paste will be found useful. To protect the skin from irritation and changes of temperature, flannel should be worn, and its thickness reduced in warm weather. If itching is troublesome the flannel underclothing may be lined with thin washing silk. Internal treatment is generally supposed to be of little practical use—Besnicr, however, recommends frequent small doses of arsenic, while Brocq highly commends cod-liver oil. The