186 HERNIA ring, but such thickening does not usually affect the peritoneum. In most cases the interior of the sac is quite smooth, but occasionally adhesions may form, as the result of inflammatory processes, and give rise to irreducibility of the hernia. If the adhesions attect the mouth of an empty hernial sac and result in its closure there, or if a phig of omentum adhere in the neck of the sac and effectually block the orifice, fluid may accumulate in the interior of the sac so cut off" and a hydrocele of the hernial sac results. The sac wall is, in most examples, of the same appearance and thickness as the peritoneum from which it is derived. In old-standing liernise, especially if an ill-fitting truss or one exerting ill-regulated pressure has been worn, the sac will be found thickened, tough, fibrous, or almost cartilaginous in density. {/j) The Contents.—Any of the abdominal organs, including the pancreas, may be present in a hernial sac, but in many of the operations undertaken for the radical cure the sac is found empty. The most usual content is probably the ileum, then the omentum, and the jejunum. The large intestine, especially tlie sigmoid, is not infrequently seen. The omentum generally lies in front of the intestine if both are present. It exhibits a marked disposition to the formation of adhesions to other structures contained within the sac. Adhesions present in a hernial sac may run 1. Between one portion of the sac and another, 2. Between omentum and the sac, 3. Between omentum and intestine, 4. Between intestine and intestine, 5. Between intestine and the sac. The last are decidedly rare. A thin tag of omentum adherent to the neck of the sac is frequently found on laying open the inguinal canal. Unless the portion of the sac in the inguinal canal be freely opened up, these little tags or threads of adherent omentum are apt to be overlooked. A persisting adhesion of such a kind is not improbably a potent factor in the recurrence of a hernia after operation. The omentum undergoes certain changes when it has been for any length of time in a hernial sac. It becomes thickened, tough, fibrous and brawny, and in some instances considerably increased in bulk, forming then a hard globular mass connected with the intra- abdominal portion by a more or less narrowed pedicle. Cysts may form, or a calcareous deposit occur, or rarely, malignant disease or tubercle develop. A second spurious sac may be formed by a complete envelopment of the gut in tlie sac by a thin and stretched omentum. Holes or gaps in this structure have allowed bowel to pass through them, and strangulation lias thereby resulted. If intestine alone is present the hernia is known as an enterocele, if omentum alone as an epiplocele, if both as an entero-epiplocele. If only a portion of the wall of the intestine is included in the sac the condition is known as partial enterocele, or Richter's Hernia. This is most frequent in femoral hernia. A hernia of Meckel's diverti- culum is known as Littre^s Hernia (not Littre, as frequently written). Other adventitious bodies are occasionally found in hernial sacs, the commonest of these being formed from detached appendices epiploicse, or tags of omentum which become coated with a thin tunic of fibrous tissue. (c) The coverings of a hernia naturally vary with the region in which the rupture exists, but in the same region the conditions presented may vary considerably. Thus in the inguinal region a small hernia, especially a recent one, which has not suff"ered the pressure of a truss, will reveal on examination all the layers recognised by the anatomist. In an older, larger hernia, where the skin is thickened or chafed by tlie wearing of a truss, the layers are indurated, fused, and not clearly separable. In the umbilical region, owing perhaps to unrestrained bulging on the part of the contents, the skin becomes thinned, shiny, and almost translucent. In not a few cases ulceration from pressure or friction may extend widely and lay bare the sac and its contents. Causation of Hernia The causes of hernia are many. There is no single determining factor. The difficulty is not to explain the occurrence of hernia, but rather to understand how any human being goes through a reasonable length of life without suffering from rupture. It is almost impossible to find any subject in the post-mortem room of which it is justifiable to say that in him or her a condition of hernia might not very readily have existed. In all bodies one or more of the " causes" are present. For convenience of description the various conditions leading to hernia may be considered as predisposing and exciting, or determining. Predisposing Causes.—1. Beyond question the most frequent of these is a congenital aberration of development. Such aberration may affect:— (a) The Vaginal Process.—This offshoot from the peritoneal cavity may remain patent or may undergo only partial closure. The " physio- logical fusion " leading to the oblitei-ation of the process begins earlier and proceeds more rapidly on the left side. Congenital hernia and similar forms of hernia are therefore more commonly noticed on the right side. Probably the partial or complete want of closure of the process and the consequent formation of hernia is far more frequent than is generally conceded. (6) I'he Descent of the Testis.—Any of the forms of retention or ectopy of the testicle strongly predispose to hernia.