24 H^EMATOZOA Hseiri£ltOZO£l. — Animal parasites of various kinds which live on the blood or the blood-vessels. See Filariasis ; Malaria ; etc. Haematuria.. See also Abdomen, In- juries OF [Kidney); Abdominal Aneurysm {Press^lTe Symptoms); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases (Calculus, Symptoms; Tumours, Sym- ptoms) ; Children, Clinical Examination op {Urine); Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms); Cir- cumcision {Complications of Phymosis); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symptomato- logy, Kidneys); Hysteria {Disorders of Urinary System); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {In- juries, Symjitoms); Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions {Tuberculosis, etc.. Symptomatology); Kidney, Surgical Affections {Stone in the Ureter); Mumps {Complications); Rheumatism, Acute {Renal Affections); Rheumatism in Children {Purpura and Hcematuria); Scurvy, Infantile {Clinical Features, Hcematuria) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in. According to its etymological sense the term should be restricted to cases in which blood is effused from the vessels of the kidneys, ureters, or bladder, and discharged along with the urine, excluding from the definition urethral haemor- rhage, in which the blood escapes by drops or flows in a continuous stream from the orifice of the urethra, and which is not properly a mictus cruentus. The appearance of blood in the urine during micturition is a symptom of a large number of different lesions, and, as seen in surgical practice, may have its origin in any of the divisions of the urinary tract. Hsematuria may be due to (a) lesions of the renal parenchyma or the pelvis; (b) disease of the ureters; (c) disease of the bladder; {d) disease of the prostate; (e) disease of the urethra; and (/) disease of the testicles. The pathological conditions which are associ- ated with the appearance of blood in the urine are therefore very various and numerous. The great majority come under the cognisance of the surgeon, but there are some which belong- strictly to medical practice. For example, hsematuria may be an accompaniment of htemo- philia, septicaemia, typhus, enteric, or malarial fevers, small-pox, scurvy, or purpura ; or it may be the direct consequence of poisonous agents, such as cantharides, alcohol, turpentine, phos- phorus, and arsenic. There is an intermittent form of hsematuria which has been described under the term "malarial ha3maturia," more common in men than in women, and differs from ordinary " paroxysmal hsematuria " in the greater regul- arity of the attacks, in that it is met with in certain districts only, and in that it is associ- ated with the presence of malarial organisms in the blood. What is called " endemic hsematuria " depends upon the presence of a parasite, the Bilharzia hcematobia. This form of the disease is met with in Egypt, Natal, Cape Colony, Mauritius, and in Brazil, and a somewhat similar hsema- turia prevails in India, due to the presence of the Filaria sanguinis hominis. These conditions only require to be mentioned, as they are rarely met with by practitioners at home. {See " Parasites.") Tests. — Tests for blood in urine may be divided into three classes :— (a) Microscopic.—When the urine is allowed to stand the corpuscles and colouring matter may fall as a deposit, when they are easily re- cognised by the microscopic examination. This is most readily seen when the urine is acid or neutral; but when it is alkaline the colouring matter is liable to be dissolved out of the cor- puscles, and these by imbibition of fluid become distended and appear as almost colourless spheres instead of flat discs. Their charac- teristic appearance is therefore lost. Occasion- ally the edges may become serrated from shrivelling of the corpuscles. (i^) Spectrosco2nc examination affords a very delicate test. Blood even in very minute quantities gives the characteristic absorption bands of hsemoglobin in the yellow and green between the D and E lines. (c) Chemical tests may be also employed. (1) The addition of carbolic acid to a urine containing blood causes coagulation of any albumin which may be present, and also changes the colour of the fluid to a peculiar reddish tinge. (2) By boiling the urine with caustic soda and allowing it to stand, a brick-red pre- cipitate is thrown down. (3) When a little glacial acetic acid and a crystal of common salt are added to urine containing blood, Teichmann's crystals are deposited. (4) When a couple of drops of tincture of guaiacum and half a drachm of "ozonic ether" are added to a drachm of the urine in a test-tube and the whole shaken, the ether dissolves the resin which has been pre- cipitated, and after a few seconds carries it to the surface of the urine. At the line of union between the " ozonic ether " and the fluid lying underneath it, if blood be present, a blue colora- tion appears. Fallacies.—Red urine is sometimes passed by patients who have taken suphonal in large doses or for a long period. The excretion may also be rendered red or black from the admixture of various pigments derived from articles of diet or medicine. Rhubarb, beetroot, straw- berries, sorrel, prickly pear, and logwood may impart a red colour. Senna, salicylic acid, and carbolic acid may also cause coloration. In microscopic examinations, globular vege- table spores may simulate blood corpuscles. In using the spectroscope it must be remembered that logwood gives a spectrum very similar to hajmoglobin, and in employing the guaiacum test