INFANT FEEDING 404 Ewe's Milk and Mare's Milk have also been used for infants. The former is even richer in fat and casein than goat's milk, and is hardly likely to suit an infant who cannot digest cow's milk. Mare's milk is slightly poorer in fat and casein than cow's milk, and occupies in this respect an intermediate position between cow's milk and asses' milk. With the more intelligent modification of cow's milk which is practised nowadays, the necessity for the use of the milk of other animals has become less, and it is now com- paratively seldom that any of those mentioned here are used. Milk Preparations " Humanised Milk" as sold by many of the larger dairy companies, is of considerable value as a temporary food, where for any reason it is impossible to carry out the careful modification of cow's milk at home. The term " humanised" simply means that the percentages of fat, proteid, and sugar have been modified to bring the milk as near as possible in composition to human milk, and the principles of preparation are exactly the same as those already described for the home modi- fication of milk. Some humanised milk, how- ever, has its digestibility further increased by partial pancreatisation, a process which will be described below. Humanised milk is now commonly sold in two or three different strengths, so that the per- centage of proteid can be increased as the infant's powers of digestion increase. As a temporary measure such milk is often of great value, and the writer has obtained excel- lent results from it; but it is apt to be forgotten that these commercial preparations have been sterilised, usually by prolonged exposure to high temperature, and have not therefore the full value of fresh milk. In this way they are inferior to the home modifications of fresh milk. It happens not uncommonly that an infant thrives well for a few weeks, or two or three months, on " humanised milk," and then begins to fail and to show the same vague symptoms which have already been described as due to the prolonged boiling or sterilising of milk. These sterilised preparations, therefore, should not be used alone for long periods; it is prefer- able, if possible, to modify fresh milk at home as directed above. Peptonised Milk.—Under the name of pep- tonisation are generally included two different processes for the predigestion of foods. In the one the ferment of the gastric juice, pepsin, is used ; in the other the ferments of the pancreas. The latter is by far the more convenient to use for the predigestion of milk, for not only is it said to act with special ease on the casein of cow's milk, but it also acts in an alkaline or neutral medium, whereas pepsin requires a distinctly acid medium. By this predigestion the proteids including the casein are more or less completely converted into soluble peptones which are easily absorbed. Various methods of peptonisation are in vogue. A very simple and effectual method is to mix a quarter of a pint of boiling water with half a pint of cold milk, then add the following powder: Extract, pancreatis (Armour's) gr. ijs., sod. bicarb, gr. x., and allow to stand in front of the fire for ten minutes with occasional stir- ring, then heat the mixture just to the boiling- point. This final heating stops the action of the ferment, which if continued too long gives an unpleasant taste to the milk; the heat at the same time serves to destroy any micro- organisms in the milk. Fairchild's peptogenic milk powder is very similar in composition, and used according to the directions supplied with it produces an easily assimilated milk mixture, in which the casein is partially digested, and which, according to Dr. Leeds's analysis, closely resembles human milk in its composition. Benger's liquor pancreaticus is used thus : Half a pint of boiling water is mixed with a pint of cold milk, two teaspoonfuls of the liquor with 20 grains of sodium bicarbonate are added, and the whole mixture is kept in front of a fire for about one hour and then boiled. If used with- out further dilution this mixture requires the addition of about half a teaspoonful of milk- sugar to every three ounces. Fairchild's zymine (gr. V. with sod. bicarb, gr. xv., the contents of one of the glass tubes in which it is sold) can be used similarly. Whatever method is adopted the degree of peptonisation can be regulated by the time the peptonising process is continued. In discon- tinuing the use of peptonised milk it is often useful to reduce the time of peptonisation gradually, so that more and more of the work of digestion may be left to the infant's stomach. In this way many an infant who seems unable to digest cow's milk may gradually be coaxed into digesting it without artificial aid. For some conditions peptonised milk is par- ticularly valuable. The miserable emaciated infant, who, in spite of much care in the dilu- tion of milk, is continually whining or scream- ing with flatulence and colic, whose bowels are costive, and stools consist largely of undigested curd, will often turn the corner and make rapid progress on peptonised milk ; so, too, the infant who is just convalescent from an attack of gastro-enteritis, and whose stomach, as so often happens, seems to have lost in great measure its digestive power, is often benefited by the use of peptonised milk for two or three weeks. But there are certain disadvantages attaching to peptonised milk which it is well to remember. It has a laxative effect which is not always desirable, and in some infants causes trouble- some diarrhoea. It must, therefore, be used