HERMAPHRODITISM 184 the external organs were those of the female; while internally there were a rudimentary uterus, a rudimentary vagina, a normal ovary, parovarium, and tube on Isoth sides, and near to each ovary a body containing tubules running towards the hilum, and supposed to be a testicle. Unilateral true hermaphroditism must be very rare; in it there are supposed to be a testicle and an ovary on one side of the pelvis, and a testicle or an ovary or neither on the opposite side. Blacker and Lawrence claim to have de- scribed the only well-authenticated and genuine case of hermaphroditismus verus unilateralis; but it is to be remembered that it was in a foetus and not in an adult. The foetus was well formed save for the genitals ; thei'e was a uterus unicornis, a normal tube and ovary on the right side, and on the left side an ovo-testis, with a vas deferens and epididymis. Of course, the whole importance of the case rests upon the demonstration of the so-called ovo-testis ; it is claimed by the authors that the gland on the left side was double in nature, that one part of it was ovarian and the other testicular. The microscopical appearances show that in one part there were cell-columns and Graafian follicles with a large amount of stroma, while in the other were tubules filled with cells, forming at the hilum a rete-like structure. Manifestly it becomes very difficult to decide as to the nature of a gland like the testicle or ovary, which in early foetal life is so similar in structure; arrested development of the testicle might leave a gland not unlike a poorly developed ovary. PReudo-hermaphroditism, or hermaphroditis- mus spurius, is much less rare than the true form ; and the explanation is to be found in the embryology of the genitals. Pseudo-hermaphro- dites are usually individuals in whom a part of the organogenic scaffolding of the genital organs, which is common to both sexes, persists instead of atrophying ; thus in male pseudo-hermaphro- dites there may be found coexisting the testicles and a uterus and tubes, the Miillerian ducts which ought normally to have atrophied having persisted. But there is never a stage in the embryo in which the scaffolding of both ovaries and testicles exists; hence the rarity, perhaps the impossibility, of true hermaphroditism. The other form of spurious hermaphroditism, pseudo- hermaphroditismus/ewijWnws, includes the cases in which an individual with ovaries (a woman therefore in reality) has, through adhesion of the labia pudendi, hypertrophy of the clitoris, and a hirsute development on the face, taken on the external appearances of the male. This form, or gynandry, as it is sometimes called, is not so common, and does not carry with it the same social dangers as pseudo-hermaphroditismus mascidinus or androgyny ; it requires no further description. Male pseudo-hermaphroditism may be of three kinds. It may be infernal, when thei'e are testicles in association with external genitals of the male type, and a uterus, vagina, and even tribes. It may be external, when there are testicles along with female external genitals and a feminine build of body. Finally, it may be complete, when, in addition to testicles, there is a uterus with tubes and external genitals resembling the female type. The commonest form met with is that in which there is scrotal hypospadias (the urethra opening at the base of an imperforate and stunted penis), non-descent or incomplete descent of the testicles, and want of union of the two halves of the scrotum in the middle line. The resemblance to the female type may be intensified by the presence of a vulvar or rather a vestibular canal of no great depth, but simulating the vaginal orifice, and sometimes possessing a hymeneal membrane. Such individuals are usually registered at birth as females, and it is only when puberty arrives that the non-appearance of the menses, and the development of hair on the face and chest, along with other secondary male characters, throw doubt on the real sex of the person, and may lead to a medical examination. In the absence of such an examination it may unfortunate!}' happen that the hypospadiac man is married as a woman, and Neugebauer has reported a number of cases of this occurrence. As in all other malformations, so in this, family prevalence (the occurrence of more than one case in the same family) may be met with, and both Groom and Ghiarleoni have given details of supposed sisters who turned out to be hypospadiac brothers. In order to avoid the awkward consequences which may and do follow such erroneous declarations of sex, Lawson Tait has advised that when any doubt as to sex exists at the time of birth the child should be brought up as a boy; if this be done, the risks of error and the dangers resulting from it are much diminished, for male pseudo-hermaphrodites are more common than female, and individuals reared as males are less likely to enter the married state in ignorance of their true sex. Gastration has been suggested and carried out in some instances, but it is of doubtful justifiability; redeclaration of sex is attended with many diffi- culties, as was abundantly shown in Groom's cases (Trans. Edin. Ohst. Soc. xxiv. 102, 1899); but it is surely preferable in most cases to surgical procedures. Hermite Process.—A means of dis- posal of sewage by subsidence. Nascent oxygen is obtained by passing an electric current through sea-water, and the fluid applied directly to the drains or sewers. Hernia. Gexerat,. Structures . . . . . .185 Causatiox . . . . . .186