HYSTERIA IN CHILDHOOD 327 be remembered that masturbation and the grosser forms of immorality which are occasion- ally met with in children are certainly in some cases, perhaps in most, the manifestation of the neuropathic tendency rather than its cause. Imitation certainly plays a large part in the hysteria of childhood. As far back as the thir- teenth century epidemics of hysterical symptoms occurred, affecting children as well as adults, and sometimes only children. Quite recently epidemics of hysterical convulsions and other symptoms have occurred in schools; and there can be little doubt that this imitation-hysteria is not all mere shamming; auto-suggestion, prompted by the example before the child, probably induces a genuine hysterical condi- tion ; at the same time malingering is by no means unknown in childhood. Symptoms.—It is unnecessary to repeat the general symptoms of hysteria here, for they have been described already in the article on Hysteria in Adults, and there is scarcely a symptom of the adult affection which has not been observed also in children. There are, however, some special features of this condi- tion, as it occurs in childhood, which are worthy of notice. The early years of the boy or girl who in later life develops hysteria, not infrequently show certain indications of the neuropathic taint. When the hysterical symptoms occur it is often easy enough to see these pro- dromal indications in retrospect; but for the child's sake it is most important that their significance should be recognised earlier. Cer- tainly from the age of 2 or 3 years these early indications may be noticeable, and it may be that even in infancy the occurrence of infantile convulsions may sometimes, as Dr. Coutts has suggested, foreshadow the neurotic tendencies of later life. Such children are often extremely passionate; from caressing affection they will pass suddenly, if thwarted, to a perfect fury of passion. In other respects also they are ex- tremely volatile, and their behaviour, without being insane, is often unreasonable, and they are in consequence extremely difficult children to manage. Some of them also show excessive timidity or a morbid shyness. They are troublesome too in their feeding, full of fads, " can't eat this," and " can't eat that." They are apt to exaggerate their ailments. Often they are solitary children who do not care to associate with other children, and show no healthy interests in the games and amusements of childhood. As has been already mentioned, sexual immorality is sometimes an early mani- festation of the neuropathic tendency, and some of these children, before the appearance of definite hysterical symptoms, have been so vicious in their habits that they have been expelled from schools as unfit to associate with other children. As regards the hysterical attack, while in adults it often manifests itself as a complicated grouping of symptoms, in a child it tends to be much simpler. In many cases only one or two symptoms are present, and in the writer's ex- perience motor symptoms — and of these the spasmodic rather than the paralytic — have seemed to be much commoner than sensory. Localised hysterical spasm is one of the commonest manifestations of hysteria in child- hood ; in one child there is a sudden jerk of the head to one side, in another a transient spastic condition, shifting at intervals of a few hours from limb to limb, in a third a continuous mus- cular spasm drawing the foot into a position of talipes, and not very rarely the muscles of phonation and of respiration are affected, and a frequent short, dry, sometimes barking cough or some other curious sound is produced. In children these spasmodic affections are often rhythmical. In two boys aged 10 years, fine tremors of the whole body occurred, and in one case could easily be produced by suggestion; in another girl, similar fine clonic spasm was limited to the lower jaw; in another girl of 11 years, there was rhythmical belching with a curious gurgling sound, as if air were bubbling down the (Esophagus; the symptoms ceased directly the child was put in the horizontal position ; the sound was so disturbing that the child had been unable to attend school. Hys- terical convulsions, however, the hystero-epilepsy and clownism of major hysteria, are much less common in children than in adults; in 4 of the 33 cases mentioned above, hysterical convulsions were present, preceded in one girl, aged 11 years, by the globus hystericus. Sometimes, as in adults, these attacks can be brought on or stopped by pressure on certain areas, the so- called hysterogenic zones, but these are very rare in children. The writer met with one case of hysterical dyspnoea in a girl aged 8 years, in whom the attacks could be stopped by pressure on the umbilical region. Of sensory symptoms hypersesthesia is probably the most common in childhood; anaesthesia and analgesia are certainly rare. The limitation of the field of vision, to which so much importance has been attached as a symptom of hysteria, is occasionally found in children, but it is so difficult to test a child's vision with the perimeter that such observations are apt to be fallacious. Hysterical blindness and deafness have occurred but rarely in child- hood. Complaint of headache is not uncommon in association with hysterical symptoms in chil- dren ; and in some cases its daily recurrence at a certain hour, or its disappearance when the child's attention is distracted, or its curiously localised character, or the presence of hyper- Eesthesia of the scalp, suggests that the headache is really hysterical. A very important group of cases is that in