56 HEAD in those rare conditions known as diffuse hyper- ostosis, which affects the skull bones and occurs in youth ; and, lastly, in leontiasis ossea, in which disease there are hyperostoses in the form of tumours growing from the skull bones, and especially the maxillfe, the disease com- mencing in childhood and producing great deformity in later life. Symmetry.—The cranium of infants is often somewhat asymmetrical, either without definite cause or in consequence of rickets. Asymmetry of the head may be seen in hemihyjyertrojjliy, or specially affecting the face, as in progressive facial hemiatrojihy, or more frequently in associa- tion with wry-neck, where there is imperfect development of the face on the same side as the affected sterno-mastoid. In babies the anterior fontanelle normally closes between the fifteenth and eighteenth months. The conditions which retard closure have been already mentioned, e.g. rickets and chronic hydrocephalus. Examination of the fontanelle shows that its normal tension may be raised by crying or coughing, or by cranial tumours, meningitis, or hydrocephalus, which produce increased intracranial pressiu'e, wdiile the most common cause of depression of the fontanelle and lowering of its tension is severe and continued diarrhoea. The fontanelle has normally a slight pulsation communicated to it from the arteries forming the circle of Willis, but auscultation is useless in determining the presence of intracranial disease. The percussion note of the skiill is of doubtful value in diagnosis, but percussion is often helpful in locating such conditions as cerebral tumours and meningeal gummata, or in forming a dia- gnosis of mastoid inflammation. Head ret7-action, or cervical opisthotonos, is an important sign in babies of meningitis, whether of tubercular or of the so-called simple form. In its mildest form there is merely rigidity of the neck, due to tonic spasm of the muscles at the back of the neck, but when well marked the head is fully extended, the occiput even touch- ing the back, and in such a case the inflamma- tion has probably spread to the spinal meninges. Head retraction is also seen in infants with chronic diarrhoea, or associated with cerebro- spinal congestion, e.g. in typhoid fever. The condition must not be mistaken for wry-neck, or the stiff neck of rheumatism or spinal caries. In adults we find head retraction in tetanus and hystcro-epilepsy. Conjugate deviatioyi of the head and eyes is due to cerebral hajmorrhage, meningitis, or tumours, but most often to heemorrhage. The eyes and head are turned towards the side where the lesion exists, i.e. away from the paralysed side ; but in the stage of early rigidity they may be turned in the opposite direction. In hemorrhage of the pons the deviation is just contrary to that of other ha)morrhages. Injuries of the Scalp; Scalp Wounds. — The edges of the wound do not gape if the cranial aponeurosis be uninjured, and the appearance of a wound inflicted with a blunt instrument will closely resemble that of an incised wound. If the aponeurosis has been divided there is much gaping, and the scalp can be freely stripped off from the pericranium. Scalp wounds usually give rise to severe htemorrhage, because the vessels which lie in the fibrous tissue of the scalp are unable to retract. The wounds heal readily. The chief dangers are hfemorrhage and suppuration in the space between the pericranium and the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis. If the pericranium has been detached from the bone b}^ violence or suppuration there is merely slight suj)erficial necrosis of the bone, which is hardly in any way dependent on the pericranium for its blood-supply. It is of extreme importance to ascertain whether there is a fracture of the skull in addition to the scalp wound. Thorough investigation of the wound is imperative, and if in doubt it is a good rule to enlarge the wound of the soft parts, and explore with the aseptic finger, so as to avoid mistaking torn pericranium for a fracture, as one may do if a probe be used. Of less impoi'tance as local signs of fracture are (1) an infilti-ation of blood into the conjunctiva and eyelids, most commonly seen in fractures involving the orbital plate or the orbital ridge, and which must not be mistaken for the infiltra- tion following a local injury to the eyelids; and (2) the escape of blood or cerebro-spinal fluid from the ears, mouth, or nose after fracture of the base. Cephalhcematoma is a blood tumour of the scalp caused by trauma. According to its position in the scalp we speak of it as (1) sub- cutaneous, (2) subaponeurotic, or (3) sub- periosteal. The hccmatoma may form a well- defined swelling, which, with a soft and some- what depressed centre and a firm, elevated margin, may resemble a depressed fracture. The diagnosis of hsematoma is determined by exerting pressure on the elevated margin, which is then found to disappear. Subaponeurotic htematoma is not common, but if it occur the blood is only limited by the attachments of the occipito-frontalis. The sub- periosteal variety is confined by the pericranium to one bone, and is most often seen in infants over the right parietal bone after forceps delivery. The treatment of scalp wounds requires no special mention, further than emphasising the importance of thorough cleansing and shaving of the scalp for a considerable area around the wound. Cephalhfematomata are best left alone, for the blood will be absorbed. Strapping, pressure, evacuation of the blood, or incision and drainage on accoiuit of suppuration, are rarely required. Tumours of the liead. are mostly seen in the scalp. They may be simple sebaceous cysts, or