380 INDIGESTION 2. Sensory. (a) Sensation. (1) Heartburn. (2) Pain after or before food; Gastralgia. (b) Sensibility. (1) Tenderness on pres- sure. (2) To peristaltic move- ments. 3. Motor. (a) Hyperperistalsis. (b) Hypoperistalsis. (c) Pyloric Insufficiency. (d) Pyloric Spasm. (e) Dilated Stomach. (/) Gastroptosis. (g) Delayed emptying. (II.) Of Distant Origin. 1. Cerebral. (a) Hysteria, Neurasthenia, (i) Hemicrania. 2. Spinal. (a) Spinal Irritation. (b) Some cases of Systemic Disease. 3. Peripheral. (a) Intestinal Lesions. (b) Pelvic Disease. (c) Pregnancy. (d) Enteroptosis. C. Toxfemia. 1. Autogenetic. (a) Urjemia, Cholsemia, etc. (b) Auto-intoxication. (c) Gout and Rheumatism. 2. Heterogenetic. (a) Alcohol. (6) Drugs and Poisons. The classification of cases of indigestion intro- duced above must not be regarded as being in any way cither exhaustive or complete. Space forbids a further elaboration. As it stands it is meant to indicate the mode of origin and the nature of the primary cause of the various chief types of indigestion, apart from the many forms in which more than one of these factors coexist, and from those in which diff'erent symptoms are produced by similar causes. Every case of indigestion of organic source must necessarily exhibit some disturbance of function. Those disorders of digestion which are purely functional from the first may continue without establishment of any organic change for some length of time, but if very prolonged generally induce actual changes in the tissues and cells of the stomach walls. It cannot be too strongly insisted on that indigestion must on every occasion be regarded merely as a symptom, not as a disease to be treated by rule of thumb with routine remedies and stereotyped therapeutic measures. Few cases are identical in form, origin, or personal idiosyncrasy. In many the primary source from which the symptoms proceed has no direct relationship to the stomach or its digestive processes,—the morbid symptoms, subjective or objective, exhibited by that organ depending entirely upon irritation of the nervous tissues supplied to more or less distant parts, and consequent abnormal stimulation reflexly con- veyed to the gastric nervous mechanism. Again, constitutional affections may be really answerable for the occurrence of the symptoms, and imless they are dealt with along with the treatment of the local complaint, may inhibit success. In anaemia, gout, chronic debilitating diseases, little benefit will accrue unless the larger lesion is recognised as the more important factor in the management of the less. Another class of case confesses to toxaemia as the causa causans; autogenetic when produced by excessive absorption of poisonous products of intestinal fermentation, proteolysis, or putre- faction, or by inability on the part of the liver to render the quantities conveyed to it innocuous; when aroused by presence of the results of metabolism in the blood-stream, because of renal inefiiciency, or of biliary items where their passage into the bowel is arrested ; heterogenetic when induced by alcoholic excess, or by ingestion or introduction of various gastric irritants into the stomach or body. The general neuroses also must be borne in mind,—hysteria, neurasthenia, and mental depression,—in the consideration of indigestion ; and in women, the wonderful influence exercised by diseased conditions of the organs of generation upon digestive processes, especially of the ovaries, as well as the intimate connection which the menstrual functions and pregnancy bear to them. Still another point worthy of attention relates to the tendency that exists in cases in which certain glandular secretions, for whose real significance in the bodily economy we are still groping, have been arrested, or altered,—as, for instance, the secretion of the thyroid gland in myxoedema and goitre, or of the ovaries after double ovariotomy, — to the occurrence of dyspeptic troubles. Recognition of the fault underlj'ing such cases will elucidate many of their puzzling symptoms, and indicate the most advantageous line of treatment. Further, as "digestion" signifies all the processes by means of which the nutritive elements of the food introduced into the body are adapted for absorption into the circulating fluids for use, for assimilation, and in metabolism, so "indigestion" may be held to include many more recondite morbidities connected with the retail department of co-operative protoplasmic commerce, than the wholesale division, dealing with crude material, can offer. From the time