470 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS taste in some cases, of an innate greed for rich colour or fine form or good sound. A useful observation has distinguished between the ear- minded and the eye-minded—those whose brains have the avenues of hearing or of vision speci- ally active; and, more commonly, we have to observe practical tastes—an interest in making music, or in producing colours and forms, and various other outward activities, of which the love of sports is perhaps the most usual. In a well-balanced mind festhetic interests are well blended, but the normal development is always towards practical pursuits. Short of the gross defects of vision and of hearing, and the gross motor failures with which we are all familiar, slighter degrees of defective interests are often to be noted as characterising bad brains; and, in insanity, inquiry always elicits an account of a change in the patient's pursuits. Humour, Temperament, and Disposition.— These constitute still another kind of innate cerebral characteristics. The day of tempera- ments is past. But we have still to note that many people fail of that good humour with things in general which is the good fortune of a healthy brain, and that, in active disease, an extravagant optimism is common. So far as is known, good humour is determined by a right proportion of expenditure and revenue of energy. It is when the brain has enough vitality and to spare for all the calls made upon it, and—what is apt to be forgotten—when it is allowed to expend its surplus, that good humour comes. And temperament is determined by the prevailing humour. The term disposition merely indicates the expression of temperament or of humour. It signifies general feeling made manifest in conduct — bonhomie, kindliness, tolerance, or surliness, sourness, moroseness, hopelessness, as expressed in converse with our fellows. In all disordered states of brain the disposition is changed, though often pleasantly as in the early stages of mania. Sense-Perception.—The functions to which allusion has been made are functions in which the innate constitution of the brain is obviously of the first importance—functions which depend upon the original vitality of its parts. And it is still true of those which we are about to con- sider, that development, up to a certain point, precedes experience. But experience now plays a more obvious part. If the eye is not filled with seeing or the ear with hearing, it is still true that sense-perception is a function or group of functions which depends very largely upon experience for its development. And these functions, which we are too apt to regard in their primary aspect—as merely subserving sense impressions — furnish very largely the data of intelligence. We think and feel and act after we have seen, heard, tasted, smelled, and handled. We must, therefore, conceive of each sensory tract not merely as developed in relation to the objects to which it obviously refers but as woven into all the mechanisms of the intelligence. To conceive the nervous basis of mind, we must think of an extension into the mental areas of these mechanisms which we commonly associate with acts of simple obser- vation. The visual system, the auditory system, and all the other sensory systems, are essential elements in the framework of intelligence. And in that conception we must include the visceral tracts whose activities in health do not obtrude themselves upon the attention. The ovary, the heart, the intestines, are intimately related sen- sorily with the mechanisms of feeling, and consti- tute a large area of subconsciousness. Disorders in all these realms are familiar—parpesthesias, illusions, hallucinations. Sometimes the dis- ordered activity is high up among the mental mechanisms, sometimes in what is usually termed the sensory area, and sometimes peripheral. It is not always easy to discover the extent of de- fective sensation in mental cases, but there are few in which, if the physician seeks for it, he will not find some disturbance of function. (It may be noted here in passing that there are equally intimate and elaborate relations between the mental areas and the motor tracts. Activities in these connections, however, are chiefly out- ward, and disorder is more likely to spread from mind towards muscles than contrariwise.) Memory.—One of the prime characteristics of brain as an organ of intelligence is the fact that it retains some kind of image of the impressions which it receives. This function of retention, though most obvious in memory, is implied in all mental processes ; or, in other words, memory comes into every act of the mind. As has been said, attentive observation does something to strengthen, that is, to make more facile, the images which the brain stores; for attention generally implies that we are associating the impression of the moment with some train of thought or feeling which is more or less habitual. But we do not know that attention does more than that. Probably all impressions which reach the brain—and they are innumerable—have their characteristic effect; but, if not associated with personality, go to swell the mass of subconscious- ness. That this is so, is supported by the facts of deliriinn, in which the brain reproduces in- numerable things heard and seen which had lain quite without the vohuitary recollection of the patient. It is indeed doubtful if the brain evolves much material for conceptions, though the process is not incomprehensible. More likely the new combinations which occur, for example, in dreams and in active imagination—new scenery, new incident, new personality—are chiefly com- pounded of images fished up from subconscious- ness and sti'ung together. But the products of retention are more orderly associated in rational memory. And here we must observe a fact which comes second only to retention in its im-