26 HEMATURIA the urine, the number of red corpuscles or the amount of haemoglobin may be accepted as the measure of the quantity of albumin contained in the excretion. (6) The Admixture of other Deposits with the Blood.—In many cases of hfematuria the only abnormal constituent in the urine is blood, while in other instances it is mixed with pus, mucus, tiiberculous material, portions of tumours, or micro-organisms, the detection of which throws considerable light on the etiology of the malady. The mixture of the blood with deposits of another kind requires only to be mentioned here. The three most common are pus, mucus, and tuberculous debris. If the urine is placed in a conical glass and allowed to stand for a few hours, and the glass is then held up to the light, if pus is present in any great amount the deposits will be found in dis- tinct layers like geological strata ; the bottom of the glass is occupied by a yellowish deposit, which may be more or less blood-stained pus, or, in some cases of renal pyuria, the pus may carry down almost all the blood corpuscles, so as to leave an almost quite clear supernatant fluid. When mucvis is present, on the other hand, not uncommonly the blood corpuscles may be thrown down first, forming a layer at the bottom of the vessel, and following upon this may be seen a layer of glairy gelatinous material, which may have a reddish tint, or may contain a multitude of minute bloody streaks which in- tersect it, and penetrate into all parts of this gelatinous layer. In such cases the haemor- rhage is usually due to some lesion in the bladder, and the presence of such an amount of mucus is generally indicative of a more or less acute vesical catarrh. The tuberculous deposit can only be distinguished by microscopic ex- amination, by the cultivation of tuberculous bacilli, or by inoculation experiments. Beyond demonstrating the presence of blood-casts of the lu'iniferous tubules the microscope may reveal the existence of other elements of consequence in the deposit. For example, the character of the epithelium as derived from the renal par- enchyma, from the pelvis, the ureter, or the bladder, may greatly assist one in diagnosis; or, on the other hand, should the urine con- tain small fragments of tumours, parasites, or bacteria, the haemorrhage may be explained. (c) The Time at which the Blood appears in the Stream.—In order to ascertain the precise moment at which the blood appears in the stream it is necessary for the surgeon to see the patient urinate, and to observe whether the coloration is equal during the whole continuance of luicturition, or is more abundant at the beKinning or at the end of the act. The appearance of blood at the beginning of micturi- tion, the remainder of the flow being clear, may be an indication of two distinct conditions—the lesion is either in the prostate close to the neck of the bladder, or a malady or injury is present in the urethra. In some lesions of the prostate the blood may pass into the urethra and accumulate there ; so also in lesions of the first portion of the urethra the blood may flow back- wards into the bladder and mix with its contents. When the blood originates in the urethra and accumulates there, or when it escapes from the prostate and flows into the urethra, the hsema- turia is limited to the beginning of micturition; but if the quantity of blood is great, and flows backward into the bladder and mixes with its contents, then the whole of the urine becomes more or less coloured. Again, in a lesion at the neck of the bladder giving rise to haemorrhage, the haematuria is not limited to the beginning of micturition, but blood is also observed to escape at the end of the act. This is easily explained. Between the acts of urination the blood accumulates in the lu-ethra or close to its internal orifice, and is expelled with the first few drops of urine only,' that following being clear; but again, before complete contraction of the bladder occurs, a fresh haemorrhage is induced, which shows itself in the urine last ejected. When the haemorrhage is due to injury or disease of the urethra, the nature of the lesion is generally clearly indicated by the circumstance that the blood is observed to escape quite in- dependently of micturition; sometimes, indeed, blood is seen to flow from the meatus spon- taneously. In cases of tumour of the bladder, and also in vesical calculus, the haemorrhage is most profuse at the end of micturition. {d) The Frequency and Duration of the Attacks. —While nothing absolutely definite can be ascertained by a close observation and study of the frequency and duration of the haematuria, still considerable help may be got in this way to aid in a diagnosis. For example, in many cases of renal haematuria the blood may suddenly appear and just as suddenly disappear, soon to be followed by a profuse recurrence; such sudden transformations are in some cases accom- panied by the expulsion of long worm-shaped clots, and in such instances we may reasonably conclude that the sudden clearing of the urine has been due to the ureter being obstructed. The blood has coagulated within its lumen, and when the clot becomes displaced a fresh, and often apparently very profuse, escape of blood is observed. When haematuria comes on with- out being evidently provoked, we may generally surmise that the lesion giving rise to it is a serious one, although we may not be able to judge its site. In cases of tumour of the bladder the presence of blood is generally very persistent, without intervals, and of long duration, so that the patient may become very anaemic from loss of blood. Again, on the other hand, we meet with cases where luiematuria more or less profuse has recurred at frequent intervals; but the duration of the attacks has been short, and the intervals