357 IMMUNITY to the fact that puhnonary tuberculosis in man, whenever it has been detected in consequence of fever, almost always represents a mixed infection with streptococci, and tuberculin treatment is unfavourable in the case of a streptococcal infection. But pure tuberculosis (simple tuberculosis) is similar to the artificially induced tuberculosis of guinea-pigs, and can be decidedly improved and not infrequently cured by tuberculin. Petruschky has lately reported many favourable cures. He recommends an intermittent method of treatment, i.e. regular alternation between two to three months' use of tuberculin and three to four months' pause. Alternation is necessary because tolerance to tuberculin is induced, and it therefore ceases to act. To effect a cure, it is said that treat- ment must on an average be continued for two years. Mallein.—According to Nocard mallein is obtained by heating, by concentration to yV^h of its previous bulk, and by filtration of glycerine bouillon cultures of B. mallei one month old. Mallein is thus prepared in the same way as the older tuberculin, and it too belongs to the bacterial proteins. Opinions differ as to its value in diagnosis, for non- glandered animals sometimes react to mallein. Nocard considers that only those animals which yield a distinct reaction—a greater rise of temperature than 2° — in combination with definite clinical symptoms are to be regarded as affected with glanders, and therefore destroyed. The action of mallein, too, is not an absolutely specific one, for other bacterial proteins can cause similar although weaker effects. (6) Immimisation ivith Bacterial Cell Sub- stances obtained mechanically.—Tubercidin TR. —R. Koch's more recent tuberculin TR (1897) is obtained from virulent cultures of B. tuber- culosis by drying in an exsiccator, by fine mechanical pulverisation and extraction with distilled water. The extract is divided, by centrifuging, into an upper fluid portion and a solid sediment. The latter, after being again dried, pulverised, and extracted with water, constitutes tuberculin TR in which glycerine induces precipitation, whereas the older tuber- culin contains much glycerine. According to Koch, tuberculin TR has the definite power of inducing specific immunity, which is said to be developed without any reaction. It is said that as soon as in- susceptibility to tuberculin TR is gained there is also immunity to the older tuberculin and to the tubercle bacillus. Tuberculin TR, which, as well as the older tuberculin, is prepared at the manufactories at Hdchst-a.-M., contains 10 mg. of solid substance in 1 cc, and for use is diluted with physiological saline solution. The first dose is usually 0"002 tuberculin, being equivalent to xotj^'^ solid substance. Injections are then given every second day in gradually increasing doses, care being taken to avoid any rise of temperature greater than Q'b" C. The dose is gradually increased till 20 mg. is given. With tuberculin TR, Koch was able to immunise animals, or to cure those previously infected. But tuberculin TR, as used in medical practice, has yielded results almost as unsatisfactory as those of the old tuberculin, and another disadvantage of the new prepara- tion is that it can only be kept for a short time. Bacterial Plasmin.—Mechanical pulverisation of the cells of the lower fungi, as a mode of obtaining their intra-cellular substances, had been employed by E. Buchner in the Hygienic Institute in Munich before Koch's publication on the tuberculin TR. It is this method which furnishes the main proof that the true fermentative substance, the zymase, is contained in a soluble form in the cell juice—plasmin—of beer-yeast cells. Pure yeast is mixed with infusorial earth and quartz-sand, thoroughly pulverised, and then exposed to hydraulic pressure of 300-500 atmospheres. The juice, which contains much albumin, is filtered and freed of all living cells, and it inidergoes true alcoholic fermentation on sugar being added. We must assume that the zymase is a product of and is contained in the yeast cells, and that the fermentative energy of the yeast depends upon the production of zymase. As the cell-juices or plasmins of the lower fungi can be obtained by this method in an unchanged and active form, M. Hahn, at the Hygienic Institute, Munich, therefore prepared the plasmins of cholera, typhoid, tubercle, and other bacteria, and employed them for im- munisation. A single injection of 0-5 cc. of " cholera plasmin" appeared well adapted for immunising guinea-pigs against intra-peritoneal infection with ten times the fatal dose of living- virulent cholera vibrios, and the immunity lasts at least three to four months and is specific. The action of " typhoid plasmin " is analogous. The sera of animals treated with either of these plasmins have a powerful specific agglutinative action. " Tuberculo-plasmin " after filtration is a clear pale yellow fluid containing nucleo- albumin, and it will keep for a considerable time after the addition of 20 per cent of glycerine and 5 per cent of common salt. This preparation has been used with favourable results in the treatment of guinea-pigs infected with tuberculosis, but in only a few cases has it been hitherto employed in the human subject. 5. Immunisation with Toxic Filtrates of Bacterial Cultures. — In 1886 Salmon and Smith showed that pigeons can be rendered immune to hog-cholera (hsemorrhagic septic- femia) by treatment with filtrates of hog-cholera microbes. Foa and Bonome, Beumer and Peiper, and lastly Charrin in 1887, performed similar experiments in the diseases of rabbits