HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF 228 every care is taken, the patient dies : in other cases bedsores are a fertile source of trouble. In old people non-union is the rule in cases of intracapsular fracture. The non-union is either complete or fibrous, but bony union occurs sufficiently often to cause the surgeon to make Fig. 5.—Diagram to show the manner in which the ilio-tibial band becomes relaxed in an intracapsular fracture of the femur. The diminished resistance of the ilio-tibial band on the affected side sometimes affords important corroborative evi- dence of the nature of the injury in doubtful cases. (From AUis's Gross Prize Essay.) every attempt to secure it unless the constitu- tional symptoms are so serious as to render it necessary to save life at the expense of the utility of the limb. The treatment consists in applying an exten- sion (vol. iii. p. 361) with a light weight of 2-3 lbs. to steady the limb and prevent the starting pains. A sandbag is placed on either side of the injured limb, and the patient is kept in bed for a month. A Thomas splint is then fitted, and the patient is allowed to go about on crutches. If bedsores or any symptoms of bronchitis appear, the patient should be put into a Thomas splint at once and allowed to get up. The measurements required by the instru- ment maker for the splint are as follows : the circumference of the chest at the line of the nipples; the circumference of the thigh two inches below the fold of the buttock ; the cir- cumference of the lower third of the leg about three inches al)ove the malleoli. The length from the line of the nipples to two inches below the fold of the buttock ; the length from the Hue of the nipple to the lower third of the leg about three inches above the malleoli. It must be stated for which side of the body the splint is needed, and if crutches are required, the dis- tance from the axilla to the sole of the foot on the sound side must also be noted. A boot for the sound limb must be sent that a pattern may be fixed to it. The price of a single Thomas splint varies from 6s. 6d. to about a guinea and a half. FiucUires of the neck of the femur occur in younger persons than the majority of intra- capsular fractures. They are often known as extracapsular fractures, but incorrectly, because the capsule of the hip is attached in front to the intertrochanteric line of the femur, and the line of fracture is therefore only outside the femur posteriorly. These fractures are the result of direct and serious injury, such as falls upon the outer side of the great trochanter. The back of the neck of the femur yields first, and is often comminuted, the rest of the neck then breaks, and the proximal end of the bone is driven into the great trochanter. If the force is expanded the fracture remains impacted, but if it continue the bone is further split, and the trochanters are eitlier detached or the great trochanter is so much comminuted as to set free the impacted neck of the femur. The fracture is not found more often in women than in men, as is the case in inti'acapsular fractures, and there is usually great pain made worse by pressure over the great trochanter. The limb is generally powerless, but the patient has con- trol over it more frequently than is the case after an intracapsular fracture, and when the impac- tion is complete a few steps may even be taken with the injured limb. The signs consist in a shortening, which, though slight at first, may suddenly become considerable owing to the separation of the impacted fragments. The great trochanter is increased in size directly after the accident; it lies nearer to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the hollow of the groin becomes filled xip. The limb is generally everted owing to the posterior part of the neck of the fenuir being less resistant than the anterior portion, but a few cases of inversion have been observed. The ecchymosis and bruising are considerable. The prognosis is good because firm bony union occurs in a comparatively short space of time. The impaction should be allowed to re- main in people over middle age, who will then walk with a limp, but in young and vigorous adults the two fragments should be disengaged, in the hope that the union may take place without any shortening. The treatment consists in extending and supporting the limbs by means of a Hodgen splint, bent at the knee to an angle of 130°. The leg is first washed, dried, dusted with zinc oxide, and shaved if necessary. An extension apparatus of moleskin strapping with a wooden