350 IMMUNITY (2) With living yet attenuated virus. (3) With dead virus. (4) With the bacterial cellular substances of the same. (5) With dissolved toxic products of bacteria. 1. Protective Inoculation with Living Virulent Virus.—Inoculation for small-pox, which consists in the transference to healthy individuals of the contents of the variola pustule, was introduced into England in 1871 by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, wife of the English ambassador at Constantinople, and was much used in England, Germany, and other countries in spite of its inseparable danger. Inoculation often caused severe or even fatal small-pox, and the disease was thus spread. The inoculated disease was, however, usually of a mild form, probably be- cause inoculation into the skin affords conditions less favourable for the development of the small- pox virus than does natural contagion, in which instance the agent is probably carried from the mucous membranes into the blood and then multiplies there. There has been much said of late regarding protective inoculation by means of subcutaneous injection of bouillon cultures of living virulent cholera vibrios, such as had been tried on a large scale in Spain by Ferran in the eighties. Cholera vibrios cannot multiply in the subcutaneous tissue; they die, are dissolved, and absorbed. In Ferran's inoculations the methods were im- perfect and his statistics are quite unreliable. Haffkine, working much more accurately, has lately employed this method extensively in India, yet he generally uses dead cultures, and the subject is therefore discussed on p. 352. In contagious pleuro-pneumonia of cattle, protective inoculation with the living virus (which has not yet been isolated) has been proved to confer effective protection, and is em- ployed practically. Inoculation is performed at the end of the tail by subcutaneous injection either of lymph or fluid from the pulmonary tissue of a newly-killed animal suffering from the disease (" warm lymph "). The first result is swelling and inflammation resembling ery- sipelas around the seat of inoculation. The change often affects the whole tail, or extends even farther. There is in addition not infre- quently necrosis and loss of the end of the tail, and also some feverish reaction. Animals thus treated prove imnuine to artificial and to natural infection of pleuro-pneumonia. 2. Protective Inoculation with Living yet Attenuated Virus.—In 1878 Buchner gave proof of the inconstancy of the anthrax bacillus when cultivated under definite conditions outside the body, but tiiis inconstancy was not at that time made use of to confer protection. It is to the genius of Pasteur that we owe our knowledge of systematic protective inoculation by means of artificially induced attenuation. Pasteur's first success was gained in the disease termed fowl cholera (avian septicsemia) ; old cultures of fowl cholera bacilli, which have been exposed to the air and thus attenuated, were injected into the pectoral muscles of fowls, and induced a process of local inflammation and necrosis, which was followed by general specific immunisation of the birds. The subsequent means of attenuation were the following:— (a) Attenuation by high temperature.—Tous- saint in 1880 demonstrated that anthrax blood loses its infective power by being heated to 55° C. for ten minutes ; and in the following year Pasteur published his method of protective inoculation against anthrax, which is also founded on the power possessed by a high temperature (42°-43° C.) of attenuating anthrax bacilli. At this temperature anthrax bacilli can multiply, but cannot sporulate. Inocvilation is commenced with the weaker cultures, which have been kept for twenty-four days at 42''-43° C. (first vaccine), and ten to fourteen days later a second and final injection is given, using the more powerful cultures which have been kept for twelve days at the above temperature (second vaccine). Animals thus treated are immunised against virulent anthrax. This method was stoutly opposed by R. Koch, yet was soon extensively employed in France and Russia, and afterwards in other countries, and favourable results were obtained in cattle and still more so in sheep. In Hungary, for example, according to Hutyra, 16,082 horses, 210,750 head of cattle, and 1,118,443 sheep were inoculated against anthrax from 1889 to 1893. The total loss in the first three years amounted to 2'18-2-44 per cent, and was only 0*61-0"55 per cent in the last two years. Opinions differ, however, as to the efficacy of this method, for the constancy of the vaccine is sometimes variable, and inoculation may there- fore either confer no protection or may induce the disease and cause loss of stock. Again, the protection conferred even in the most favourable case is only of about one year's duration. Hence these protective inoculations should only be used in districts where anthrax is endemic and causes serious loss. Arloing discovered a mode of protecting against black-quarter (G. Rauschhrand) which has proved of practical value. The dried and pulverised muscle-substance of affected animals is attenuated by heating to 100° C, is then mixed with sterile water, and injected into young cattle. It is usual to employ a weak infective material twice, and then a more powerful one. Favourable results were obtained in Germany (in Baden more particularly), Austria, and Switzerland. Kitt first modified this method by attenuating with steam under ordinary pres- sure, and afterwards by the use of pure cultures of Rauschbrand bacilli, which, on being sub- cutancously inoculated into sheep and cattle, do not induce the disease, yet do confer immunity.