HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 133 in the second interspace. Moreover, it was held that the murmur of mitral incompetence is frequently heard over such dilated appendix, conducted as if by predilection to this spot even when absent at the cardiac apex ! The pulsa- tion in the second left intercostal space referred to, used to be regarded as auricular systolic to lit in with this explanation of its being due to the auricular appendix, but as a matter of fact this rhythm of impulse could not be demon- strated — the impulse was obviously systolic. Worsted in their argument, the advocates of the auricle being the seat of the pulsation in the second left space shifted their ground, and contended that the pulsation and the murmur were alike due to a regurgitant curreiut through the mitral orifice from ventricle to auricular appendix !—the deviousness of its course being completely ignored. As a matter of fact, in all cases of cardiac disease in which the obstruction tells heavily on the pulmonary circulation, and in which the right chambers of the heart become enlarged, the right ventricle rather than the appendix of the left aiiricle it is that bears the brunt of the struggle and is the first to become enlarged. The advocates of the view we are considering would have had a less imfortunate case had they limited their theory to cases of mitral stenosis, in which the auricle is apt to be dilated, though its appendix may take no part ia the change and be actually blocked with clot, but the great field of antemic and other cardiac debilities was too tempting for them. Hence- forth was not the notoriously common murmur of anfemia explained to their satisfaction? They had evidence of general cardiac disability in plenty, but why should such special disability fall thus to the share of the left auricle so as to account for its disproportionate dilatation in the absence of mitral stenosis? As we have affirmed, as a matter of fact post-mortem ex- amination demonstrates, that when there is obstruction in the pulmonary circuit it is the right chambers of the heart that dilate, and that when there is obstruction at the miti'al orifice the same chambers suffer the like change, though in common with the weak-walled left auricle, whose appendix suffers least, or even not at all. When, however, the right ventricle becomes dilated its infundibular jjortion is especially prone to give way, and as the conus dilates it tends to thrust aside the appendix of the auricle, while the position of this chamber proper is essentially a posterior one—very far back indeed. The pulsation attributed to the left auricular appendix is obviously the pulsation of the infundibulum, as was long ago shown by Dr. Mahomed. Then, again, whenever there is obstruction in the pulmonary circuit of such intensity and duration as to occasion pulsation in the second left interspace, close to the sternum, it is usually easy to feel with the hand the shock due to the too forcible closure of the semilunar valves, because they are here placed so superficially. It will be asked why in the most common cases—the anaemic—the right chambers of the heart should specially suffer? The cause is probably that the morbid blood has difficulty in passing through the lungs; whether we cut short the supply of oxygen from the respiratory passages, or limit the capacity of the field for oxygenation, must not the result be similar? and if so, must not embarrassment of the right chambers be the first result—that of the left being often considerably postponed ? In severe fevei's in which the tendency of the blood to stagnate in the lungs is notorious, Stokes long- ago called attention to the engorgement of the right ventricle, whose impulse grows apparently stronger as that of the left ventricle fails. But though so well developed in cases of anfemia this systolic murmur in the pulmonary area is a not rare one in all kinds of cardiac dis- ability, and in them too it may stand alone—the only murmur present in the whole cardiac area. The murmur, again, is not very rarely met with in the examination of candidates for assurance and for the public services, who seem to be in perfect health—possibly some anatomical abnor- mality of contour or course may be the ex- planation. We have already called attention to the dilatation of the pulmonary artery itself, that is met with in cases of long-standing mitral stenosis and other conditions resulting in conges- tion in the pulmonary circulation, and referred to the dilatation and actual atheromatous change that may ensue in a vessel so exposed to exces- sive pressure. There seems to be no reason why a systolic murmvir should not be produced in the pulmonary artery under these circumstances, in the same way as under like circumstances it is produced in the aorta. Most of those who have been engaged in teaching clinical medicine have probably at one time or another met with this experience in the pi-esence of an inquiring- student :—A patient with a first attack of acute rheumatism develops a systolic murmur at the apex, but in a day or two there may be a similar murmur in the other areas, including the tricuspid and pulmonary; " Why," asks the inquiring student, " am I told that the same murmur which indicates disease of the valve in the mitral area has no such significance in the tricuspid and pulmonary areas ?" The teacher will do well to base his reply on our accumulated clinical and pathological experi- ence of facts, and not attempt a reply based on any theory. That such a murmur in the pul- monary area is common under the circumstance is unqiiestionable. It must be admitted that as yet we have little knowledge of the mode of production of a systolic murmur in the pulmonary area, either standing alone or associated with murmurs else-