HYDATID DISEASE 259 Diagnosis ...... 267 Prognosis . . . . .268 Prophylaxis ...... 268 Treatment ...... 268 See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Foreign Bodies in Ureter); Brain, Cysts {Hydatid); Diaphragm, Surgical Affections OF {Subphrenic Abscess, Causes) ; Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Distension of Gall-Bladder, Diagnosis); Haemoptysis {Etio- logy, Hydatids of Lung) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {General Pathology, Etiology, . Parasitic Agents); Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions of {Movable Kidney, Diagnosis) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Hydatid Cysts); Labour, Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Hydatids of Pelvic bones); Liver {Perihepatitis, Secondary); Liver {Tropical Abscess, Diagnosis); Liver {Hydatids of); Lungs, Vascular Dis- orders {Embolism from Hydatid Cysts); Lungs, Abscess of ; Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Cysts); MEmASTiNVii {Groioths, Hydatid Cysts); Mouth, Diseases of {Floor of Mouth, Hydatids); Neck, Region of {Hydatid Cysts); Orbit, Diseases of {Parasitic Cysts); Pericardium, Diseases of {Hew Growths); Peritoneum, Tumours op ; Pleura, Affections of, Surgical.; Spleen, Surgery of {Echinococcus Cysts); Tongue {Cysts of). Syn. : Echinococcus Disease Corresponding to each of the adult cestodes there is an immature form or larva, occurring usually in the tissues of an intermediate host, and developed from an ovum of the adult worm. The larva at a certain phase of its life-history exhibits the development of a " caudal vesicle," bladder, or cyst, and from this vesicle one or more heads, or scolices, may arise, which again develop, on gaining a suitable host, into the adult worm. In Cysticercus cellulosce, the larva of Taenia solium, one head is formed from each bladder-wall. In Cosnurus, e.g. C. cerebralis (the cystic stage of T. coenurus), which causes " gid " or " staggers " in sheep, many head are budded out from the wall of the bladder, which is uni- locular. The larva of T. echinococcus is also polycephalous, bvit the heads originate from the walls of special vesicles inside the primary bladder. The larvse of T. echinococcus are termed echinococci, or hydatids, ar^d their presence in the body constitutes the condition known as hydatid disease. TAENIA Echinococcus is a cestode belonging to the family of Ta;niadae. It is 4-5 mm. in length, and consists of only three or four segments or proglottides in addition to the head or scolex, which has a transverse diameter of 0'3 mm. The head possesses four muscular suckers and a rostellum with two circlets of hooks, each circlet consisting of 14-25 hooks, which measure from 0"03 to 0'04 mm., those of the inner series being the larger (Leuckart). The hooks have stout root processes. The first segment is small, the second shows sexual organs, but the terminal segment, which is 0'6 mm. broad by 2 mm. long, and thus constitutes of the whole worm, is the only segment which is sexually mature. Like the proglottides of most other tenite the terminal segment has a single marginal genital pore. The cirrhus (penis) and the cirrhus pouch are well developed, and the testicles number about sixty. The female organs consist of vagina, receptaculum seminis, oviduct leading to two ovaries, yolk gland, and uterus with short lateral ramifications. The uterus contains about five hundi'ed ova, which are of about the same size as the ova of other cestodes (0-02-0-03 mm.), though the hard shell is somewhat thinner. The habitat of T. echinococcus is the small in- testine, where the white mature proglottides of himdreds or thousands of the worms may be seen protruding between the villi and showing lively movement. The dog is the chief host of this tcEnia, which is easily distinguished by its minute size from the other intestinal cestodes of the dog, and the ttenia has also been found in the wolf (Cobbold), jackal, and a puma {Felis concolor). No other animal appears to naturally harbour the adult worm, and experiments have shown that T. echinococcus does not develop in the intestine of cats (Peiper), foxes, or rabbits (Leuckart), nor has it ever been found in the intestine of the human subject. The adult worm is developed from the scolices of the cystic larva, and dogs are naturally ii^fected by eating the infected organs of an intermediate host. The metamorphosis of larval scolices into mature tsenise occurs in 4-11 weeks, but as a rule is not complete till the seventh week (Leuckart). Hydatids or Echinococci. — Hosts.—Mam- mals are almost without exception the only hosts. Sheep, oxen, swine, and man are the chief hosts, whilst the horse, kangaroo, goat, and other mammals are less often affected. Although the cystic worm in the human sub- ject is termed E. hominis, and in the lower animals is called E. veterinm-um, yet the specific identity of these two forms has been proved. Mode of Infection.—The mature proglot- tides or ova of T. echinococcus are deposited with the dog's fseces on the pasture, and the hard shell of the ovum to some extent protects the embryo inside. Herbivora are infected by feeding on the contaminated pasture. For the human subject, too, the dog is the sole source of infection. The licking of the human face and hands by dogs is often the means of infec- tion, for the ttenia may get on to the dog's tongue by migration, or in consequence of the dog's vomiting. There may be ova or pro- glottides of the taenia on the dog's miizzle too, because of the dog snuffing at its own anus, or the ani or fteces of other dogs. Ova may also be deposited on the floor from the