225 HIP-JOTNT, INJURIES OF sandbags or bandaged to a long outside splint. Passive movement may then be employed, but the patient should not be allowed to walk about for at least six weeks after the accident, though he may be permitted the use of crutches. The duration of treatment in a case of dislocation complicated by fracture will necessarily be pro- longed, and a weight and extension should be applied. The prognosis after reduction will depend upon the nature of the injury and the ease with which the displacement has been reduced. It is good in simple cases, but the patient should be warned that the accident may recur, that there may be some permanent lameness from injury to the muscles, that there may be some neuritis, and that it may form the starting-point of disease of the joint. The obstacles to reduction are numerous and are sometimes insuperable. One of the most common appears to be due to the fact that the capsule has been torn from the neck of the femur, so that it hangs as a covering over the acetabulum and prevents the head re-entering the socket: in other cases part of the obturator externus is torn, and the muscular fibres are pushed before the head into the acetabulum, whilst in yet other cases the head of the femur may lie as it were " in chancery " between the tendons of the pyriformis and the obturator internus muscles (Fig. 2, 3 and s). When the capsule has been pushed into the socket from the dorsal aspect it may sometimes be removed by flexing and abducting the thigh, whilst if it has entered from the thyroid aspect flexion and adduction of the femur may displace it. After engaging the inverted capsule the femur should be rotated inwards to tighten the Y-ligament and drive the head well into the acetabulum, whilst at the same time the knee is raised and the capsule or muscle is thus removed from its cavity. The irreducibility in long-standing disloca- tions is due to causes other than those just mentioned, though the capsule again plays an important part. When the cavity of the aceta- bulum remains unoccupied the torn capsular ligament falls over it, and the stump of the liga- mentum teres undergoes inflammatory changes. A proliferation of connective-tissue cells takes place, and the socket becomes occupied with connective tissue which is at first soft, but soon becomes dense and fibrous. If the rent in the capsule is only a small one it often heals early, and has been found completely repaired eighteen days after the dislocation. The ligament teres, too, shows remarkable powers of repair, and a new and very complete joint may be formed at the place where the head lies in its new position. The shortening of the muscles and tendons in- serted into the upper end of the femur and fibrous adhesions, or a new capsule" formed about the head, greatly militate against the VOL. IV successful reduction of old-standing dislocations of the hip. 2^he treatment of unreduced dislocations of long standing is one which may require the most anxious consideration of the surgeon. It con- sists necessarily in leaving the patient alone, in subcutaneous division of the contracted muscles and tendons, in osteotomy, in arthrotomy, or in excision of the head of the femur. When the inconvenience is slight and the dislocation of long standing it is generally wise to leave the patient alone, but when he is crippled and in pain, arthrotomy and excision of the head of the bone seem at present to off'er the most satisfac- tory results. Arthrotomy consists in cutting- down upon the acetabulum by an incision planned to permit easy access to the great tro- chanter. In the majority of cases this will be found to be in front of the joint along a line separating the posterior border of the tensor fascife femoris from the gluteus medius. The head and neck of the femur are then laid bare, and all the muscular attachments are divided as low as the lesser trochanter, until the whole upper end of the bone, including the great tro- chanter, is absolutely free, the division being subperiosteal as far as is possible, and the prox- imity of the great sciatic nerve not being over- looked. The acetabulum is then excavated and enlarged sufficiently to allow the head of the femur a ready entrance. Tlie head is replaced in the socket thus prepared to receive it, the wound is closed, extension is applied, and the limb is fixed for at least a month in a position of slight abduction. Excision should only be performed when arthrotomy has failed, or is manifestly impossible, for though it gives the patient a useful limb it also gives him a shortened one. When an excision has been decided upon, therefore, as little of the neck as possible should be removed. Other difficulties may also arise in connection with a dislocation of the hip, and chief amongst these are the cases where the dislocation is com- pound or when the femur is broken in the upper third. In the less serious cases of compound dislocation the wound and the surrounding skin should be thoroughly cleansed, and the head of the bone should then be guided into the socket, the wound being enlarged if it be necessary, but more often it will be necessary to excise the head of the bone. Amputation is so fatal an opera- tion that it should be avoided except as a very last resource. But when it has to be done, the operation should not be delayed until inflamma- tion and suppuration have made all the tissues highly vascular, as htemorrhage is the chief danger of this operation. When the dislocation is complicated by a fracture, an incision must be made along such a line as will enable the head to be replaced and the fracture to be united with stout silver wire. The bulk of the soft tissues covering the injured hip will sometimes render 15