HEART —the chambers failing to respond to the auri- cular stimvilus. When this takes place the succeeding auriculo-ventricular period is un- usually short, owing to the brief rest of the a.-v. bundle having improved its conductivity. As the compression of the a.-v. bundle becomes greater, the omission of ventricular beats occurs more frequently; thus at first there may be failure on the part of the ventricle to respond to every eighth auricular contraction (8:1 rhythm), while with further compression a 2 :1 rhythm is reached, in which only every alternate auricular contraction is followed by ventricular activity. With greater compression rhythms in which only every third or fourth auricular wave is followed by a ventricular beat (1 in 3, 1 in 4, . . . rhythms) occur. When a 1 in 3 rhythm is established, however, complete heart block usually occurs, the ventricles asserting their independent rhythm, and becoming completely dissociated from the auricles. When in place of producing heart block by gradual compression, the a.-v. bundle is suddenly lightly clamped, the ventricles stop, but the auricles remain un- affected. The pause in the action of the ven- tricles endures a minute or more, and then the independent, slow, ventricular rhythm develops. When partial block is transformed into complete block the same momentary check in the ventri- cular beat occurs. All the above phenomena have a very important bearing on heart block in man, which shows a striking analogy to that produced experimentally. When heart block is established, stimulation of the accelerator nerve affects both sets of chambers, but stimulation of the vagus, or its paralysis by atropine, affects the auricular rhythm only. Clinically, heart block reveals itself by a per- sistently infrequent pulse — 30, or less per minute. It is as a rule a disease of the later decades. To establish the diagnosis of heart block, simultaneous tracings must be taken of the movements of the vessels of the neck and of the radial artery. To describe such tracings in detail would unduly burden this article; for further information reference should be made to the writings of Gibson and Jas. Mackenzie, to the latter of whom, in particular, we owe so much of our knowledge of the employment of this means of diagnosis. It is enough to say that by comparing the two sets of tracings the relation of the auricular to the ventricular beat can be determined. Normally, in the tracing obtained from the neck the interval of time which elapses between the oscillation produced by the auricular contraction and that produced by the carotid pulse {a.-v. interval) is i second. Prolongation of this implies a retardation of conductivity in the a.-v. bundle. A further stage of block is shown by the occasional omission of a ventricular beat, followed, as in experimental block, by a diminution of the succeeding a.-v. interval on account of increased BLOCK 147 excitability following the brief rest. Finally, it may be that complete block is present, the infrequent carotid pulsations having ceased to bear any relation to the auricular waves. Dis- sociation of the auricular and ventricular movements may also be demonstrated on the fluorescent screen, by which the independent contractions of the two sets of chambers are made visible to the eye, and also, as Gibson has shown, by observing the oscillations of an electro- meter connected with the apex beat and base of the prtecordia. As in animals, atropine in- creases the rate of the auricles, but does not affect the ventricles. Many of the clinical features of bradycardia and Stokes-Adams disease have been considered elsewhere, and need only a brief mention here. The bradycardia is usually permanent. The characteristic seizures vary in frequency and severity. They may consist merely of a dazed feeling of short duration, with some restlessness and faintness; from this, up to serious fatal syncope attended by convulsions and Cheyne- Stokes respiration, all grades occur. They have the common feature, however, of being attended by a cessation of the pulse lasting for several seconds, and when the beat returns it may for some time be less frequent than prior to the seizure. Whether this temporary abrogation of the action of the ventricle was the cause or the effect of the seizures, was for long- in dispute ; it is now, however, agreed that in these cases the stoppage of the pulse precedes, and probably is the cause of the attacks. Syn- copal attacks may supervene either in partial or complete block, and perhaps also when the heart is acting normally. As we have seen, experimental complete block, whether sudden or gradual, is attended by a temporary cessation of the ventricular beat, and it is reasonable to suppose that clinically the same thing takes place. When the conductivity of the a.-v. fibres is lowered by disease, any alteration of the auricular rhythm, such as may happen reflexly through vagus action, may be enough to initiate the independent ventricular rhythm. The hypothesis that syncopal attacks are due to the transformation, from any cause, of partial into complete block, is inadequate to explain their occurrence in cases which already present the phenomena of total block. It may be, as Hay and SchmoU suggest, that in these cases there is some direct interference with the operation of the intra-ventricular stimuli—i.e. the stimuli which arise in the ventricle itself, and regulate its independent contraction. Morbid Anatoviy.—A sufficient number of examinations of hearts of patients suffering from heart block have now been made to warrant the assertion that the essential change is a lesion of the auriculo-ventricular bundle. The lesion may be of the nature of a gumma, or an invasion by scar tissue, with cellular