84 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM common in pernicious anjemia is due to a patchy distribution which occurs apparently quite irrespective of any alteration in the local vascular supply. Fatty degeneration occurs in a large number of conditions ; in fact, any prolonged morbid state leading to general impairment of nutrition is liable to produce it. It is common in all forms of anfemia, but particularly marked in the " pernicious" variety, and in toxic states, such as from phosphorus, arsenic, or alcohol. It occurs more or less naturally as part of the general disintegration of old age, but here probably at least for the most part in associa- tion with a certain degree of actual vascular disease. In pyrexial and toxsemic conditions, especially those associated with the infectious fevers, it is common. Some cases of fatal cardiac syncope in diphtheria are due to this cause. It also occurs in various wasting diseases, and is frequent in cancer, chronic tuberculosis, and all forms of cachexia and inanition. Fatty degeneration may also result from local disturbance of the cardiac nutrition as from long - continued increase of arterial pressure, and especially when this leads to passive venous congestion. The ansemia and atrophy, secondary to coronary obstruction, usually also proceed to fatty conversion of the muscle cells in the affected area. Hyaline degeneration seems to be dependent on some process akin to coagulation, whereby the cell contents assume a vitreous, shining, translucent appearance. The product formed is a strongly refracting substance and very resistant body, being insoluble in water, stain- ing yellow with iodine, but giving no reaction with chloroform or ether. The fibrous tissue of the vessels is specially affected, but the muscle elements may also manifest the change. The affected textures macroscopically have a distinctly cloudy appearance. As to its exact pathology there is much dispute, but except that it is undoubtedly a manifestation of a regressive metabolism of the cell little can with certainty be said. It occurs particularly in toxfemic con- ditions. Hyaline and granular degeneration frequently occur in association with other re- gressive nutritional processes. Dissociation of the muscle cells, which has been described as "segmentary myocarditis," occurs in several conditions of depraved nutri- tion, and is sometimes met with in cases in which hyaline and other forms of degeneration occur. Some have contended that this loosened and separated condition of muscle cells is dependent on a post-mortem change. Mucoid degeneration is occasionally met with in the comiectivc tissues of the heart, occurring perhaps most frequently in the thickened promi- nences of sclerosed valves. The affected patches have a gelatinous appearance. (11) Infiltrations.—Fundamentally the pro- cess of infiltration is quite distinct from that of degeneration, although frequently found in association. Both are to be considered as evidences of impaired nutrition. Calcareous Infiltration.—Deposits of lime salts are of very common occurrence in connection with the cardio-vascular mechanism. Usually they are met with in the form of carbonates and phosphates, but sometimes in combination with salts of magnesium. All parts of the heart may be involved. Occasionally calcareous plates are found in old pericardial adhesions. Sclerosed valves commonly present extensive deposition. The coronary vessels are frequently involved, and in some few instances even the myocardium becomes the seat of a plentiful deposition of lime salts. Calcareous change is particularly liable to affect the valves, and is an important factor in producing and maintaining forms of valvular obstruction. In sclerosed valves large, hard nodular or irregular masses are very common, and go far to render the segments immobile. Calcareous deposition is said to occur primarily as a manifestation of old age, but it will usually be found to have taken place in structures already the seat of degenerative processes. The true pathogeny of the condition is by no means clear. Apparently local lesions present conditions which predispose to or actually produce a precipitation of the lime salts or a conversion of the soluble into insoluble compounds. Uratic deposition is said to occur within the cardiac structures in gout, but if such is ever the case it is quite exceptional. Lardaceous infiltration also affects the heart as a part of a more general involvement. It cannot be considered as of any special clinical importance. The coats of the coronary vessels are earliest affected, but in advanced cases the basement membranes, fibrous elements, and even muscle cells may be affected. As is well known, it occurs particularly in association with chronic syphilis and states accompanied by long- continued suppuration. Fatty infiltration frequently occurs in com- bination with fatty degeneration. As already indicated, they are, however, essentially different processes, the former characterised by a mere cellular deposition, the latter arising from actual protoplasmic conversion. Fatty infiltration or cardiac lipomatosis is commonly but a part of a general obesity. Deposition of fat occurs particularly in the pericardium, the subepicardial tissue, in and along the septum, and around the base of the heart. The whole organ may be enclosed in a panniculus adiposus. Where excessive the car- diac action may be much impeded, and atrophy and degeneration of the muscle cells not in- frequently result. Rupture of a fatty heart has occurred spontaneously from a compara- tively trifling cause.