158 HEART, NEUROSES OF If, as may happen, organic disease of the nervous system, peripheral or central, and due to in- trinsic changes or external pressiu'e, be associated with the tachycardia, the evidences of these may in time become more apparent. The third and liighest degree of tachycardia, being associated, after much shorter duration, with considerable subjective discomfort, is that which Bouveret termed essential paroxysmal tachycardia. The pulse-rate is usually about 200 in the minute, and can only be counted by auscultation of the heart (Fig. 5). It may continue for periods varying from a few hours to several days, and the longer the duration of the attack, the greater the probability of the occurrence of retrograde phenomena, such as congestion of the lungs, ■enlargement of the liver, and albuminuria. It is indeed probable that attacks of tachycardia, ■unassociated with much or a.ny subjective sense of palpitation, may cease and only leave the retrograde phenomena as evidence of their recent occurrence. It is in this way that the writer is inclined to explain the occurrence in a patient of his of consolidation of the base of the right lung, prune juice expectora- tion, and very slightly - increased respiratory rate, but without either pyrexia or acceleration of pulse. The patient, a lady about thirty years of age, informed him that she had felt faint and giddy the day previous to his ■detecting these signs, but had had no other symptoms pointing to her condition. She was of a neurotic constitution, and suffered much from urticaria, Herringham observed in a girl of eleven years, the subject of an attack of essential paroxysmal tachycardia, that the apex-beat was more visible than usual, in addition to the rate of pulsation being greatly increased. Percussion usually shows the cardiac area in these cases to be increased in extent, and the sphygmograph declares the small and quick Fig. j.—Railial pulse of essential paro\ys!iial taeliycardia. pulse to be one of low tension. Prior to the occurring of secondary stasis, there may be no subjective distress beyond a general sense of weakness, and the attack may subside as sud- denly as it originates, leaving a pulse of normal tension and rapidity (Fig. 6). Herringham remarks that the attack often terminates during sleep, but that it has been determined to con- tinue unabated during sleep in persistent ■ cases. Diagnosis.—The transient tachycardia so frequently met with among anaemic patients is easily distinguished by the presence of other signs of antemia, and by the removal under treatment of the symjjtom with the improved condition of the blood. A persistent tachycardia of moderate rapidity may be due to commencing Graves' disease, in which the classical signs of Fig. 6.—The same pulse as Fig. 5, after tlie attack liad subsided. that condition have not as yet developed, or in which one or other of the striking phenomena in eye, or thyroid, or muscular tremor, are long delayed or altogether absent. Rapid arrhyth- mical pulsation of the heart may be distinguished from tachycardia proper by its very arrhythmi- cality, and the usually associated signs of arterio-sclerosis, which are frequently altogether absent in tachycardia, and also by the amena- bility of rapid arrhythmite to treatment. With essential paroxysmal tachycardia no other con- dition can be confused, nor is the degree of sudden cardiac dilatation associated with that state encountered in any other condition, in which the heart muscle gives evidence of general soundness. Pathology. — The transient tachycardia of anaemia has no recognisable physical basis beyond the characteristic alterations in the blood met with in that state, any more than has the neuralgia associated with the same condition. The hypersensibility conferred upon the sensory portion of the nervous system by anaemia, and manifested in some cases by neuralgia, is shown in yet others by disordered motor innervation, and by exalted irritability of rhythmical cells. In sustained tach^^cardia of moderate rapidity (100 to 150 beats in the minute) tumours in or pressing upon the pneumogastric have been met with in some cases, and in two mentioned by Martius both pneumogastrics were involved. As, however, in the latter cases the patients lived for some time in this condition, it is not probable that the conducting power of the nerves was altogether abolished. In bulbar paralysis, also associated with tachycardia, the pneumo- gastric nucleus has been known to be invaded by disease. Besides these changes, in five cases quoted by Herringham, there was fibrosis of the left ventricle in two, fatty degeneration of the myocardium in one, while in the remaining three dilatation was the only abnormality dis- covered. Prognosis.—The prognosis in tachycardia, as in bradycardia, depends iipon the nature of the cause. If this be removable the effects may also be expected to disappear. The cure of