15 H^MATEMESIS In very rare instances hajmorrhages may recur at intervals over a period of years with good health in between; this has been observed in splenic anasmia (Osier), and exceptionally in cirrhosis from varicose veins at the lower end of the oesophagus (Garland). Causes and Source.—The blood may come from the oesophagus or duodenum as well as from the stomach itself. Varicose oesophageal veins are generally part of the compensatory venous anastomosis set up in hepatic cirrhosis, but they may also develop in extensive malignant infiltration—for example, in secondary melanotic sarcoma of the liver, where this induces portal obstruction, or they may be idiopathic, viz. without any causative lesion. As a result of chronic inflammation the vari- cose veins tend to become adherent to the mucous membrane, and ulceration may follow with profuse or even fatal haemorrhage. This event may come on without any previous sym- ptoms of ill-health, the underlying cirrhosis being quite latent. Duodenal ulcer may give rise to regurgitation of blood into the stomach and hfematemesis. Ordinary duodenal ulcers are found in the first part of the duodenum; haemorrhage may also occur from the ulceration and passage of gall- stones into the duodenum. An abdominal aneu- rysm rupturing into the duodenum has been known to give rise to fatal hsematemesis, while an hepatic aneurysm bursting into the bile duct may also be a cause of hsematemesis, though melsena alone is more often recorded. In the stomach the lesions that give rise to hrematemesis may be divided into (1) Gross lesions. (2) More minute lesions of the mucous mem- brane. (i.) Gross Lesions.—Gastric ulcer is more fre- quent in anaemic young women, and is then commonest near the pylorus. It also occurs in men at a more advanced age, and is often more extensive and firmly adherent to neighbouring viscera thaia in the first category; it may be situated in any part of the stomach. Repeated and large haemorrhages may occur from minute abrasions of the gastric mucous membrane, "pore-like erosions," or "exulceratio simplex." Small ulcers may supervene in chronic en- gorgements of the stomach as the result of localised haemorrhages into the mucous coat. The ulceration may open up a vessel and give rise to profuse haematemesis, and from their minute size they may easily be overlooked. Possibly some cases of fatal haematemesis, where the stomach has been described as perfectly healthy, are of this category. These small ulcers are often seen near the cardiac orifice; in the passive congestion due to cirrhosis these ulcers usually open up a vein, while in that due to cardiac disease an artery is eroded (S. Fenwick). Varicose veins of the stomach are much rarer than in the lower part of the oesophagus, but may give rise to severe haematemesis. Other rare causes of haematemesis are aneurysms of the gastric, splenic, or hepatic arteries opening into the stomach. Carcinoma of the stomach may arise at the cardiac orifice, at the cardiac end, at the pylorus, or may involve the whole of the organ. The haemor- rhage is usually slight, rarely profuse, and, as already pointed out, the blood is apt to be retained in the stomach, and as a result of the action of the gastric juice become black or " coff'ee ground " in appearance. In very rare instances a malignant growth may invade the stomach from without, and give rise to haema- temesis. The writer has seen this in a case of carcinoma of the left siiprarenal body. (ii.) More minute lesions of the gastric mucous membrane occur in acute gastritis. This may be of local origin, and follow the ingestion of toxic fluids, such as large quantities of spirit, acids, phosphorus, or other poisons. In chronic enlargement of the stomach depending on the backward pressure of heart disease, hepatic cirrhosis, thrombosis of the portal vein, or compression of the gastric veins by adhesions, inflammatory and degenerative changes in the mucous membrane of the stomach are readily set up, with the result that oozing of blood follows. In chronic engorge- ment of the stomach the further change of gastritis may be readily set up by swallowing the pus and micro-organisms present in dental caries and pyorrhoea alveolaris. In cirrhosis of the liver it is generally assumed that haema- temesis may be due to a w'despread venous or capillary oozing, but it is probable that in addition to the venous stasis some degenerative changes in the mucous membrane are necessary to allow of the extravasation of blood. In splenic anaemia, however, haematemesis has been ex- plained by Osier as being purely mechanical and due to venous engorgement. Changes in the gastric mucous membrane may be part of a general condition, and may be secondary to severe haemic infections or intoxica- tions, such as yellow fever, icterus gravis, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, and the haemorrhagic or malignant forms of the specific fevers. In these, and sometimes in pytemic and septicaemic states, blood may be extravasated in varying amounts into the stomach. In diphtheria marked degeneration of the gastric mucous membrane is met with, and blood may be found in the vomit in cases that are not of the haemorrhagic Haematemesis is very rare in typhoid fever, but has been known to occur and is correlated with the rare lesions of typhoid ulcers in that organ. In a few instances pneumonia is accom- panied by haematemesis, due to secondary ulcera- tion in the stomach or duodenum. Hicma-