33 HiEMOGLOBINURIA hsemoglobinuria the renal secretion has been completely suppressed. Boas was inclined to attribute many of the attendant symptoms to this cause, and the effect of the attack upon nitrogenous excretion is a point which calls for investigation. Blood counts made befoi'e and during the attacks show a marked fall in the numbers of the red corpviscles. Copeman has observed falls varying from 129,000 to 824,000 per cubic millimetre. The destruction is most active at the very commencement of the attack, before the haemoglobin appears in the urine. Hayem observed, and Chvostek has confirmed the observation, that blood drawn during the paroxysms clots with unusual rapidity, and that the clot quickly liquefies again. This peculiarity is not met with in blood taken during the free intervals. The presence of free hfemoglobin in solution in the serum during the attack has been repeatedly observed, both in serum from which blood-clot has separated and in that obtained from blisters. Copeman has occasionally observed the formation of crystals of hsemoglobin in serum which has been allowed to stand. One of the most obvious microscopic changes is the absence of rouleaux formation by the red corpuscles. Poikilocytosis is sometimes noticed, and particles of free pigment are seen in the plasma. The blood platelets are usually increased in number. As a rule there is no leucocytosis. Ehrlich, Boas, and other investigators have laid special stress upon the presence of de- colorised red corpuscles {Blutshatten) as a characteristic feature. During the exposure which excites the attack there is, as Bristowe and Copeman pointed out, an initial fall of temperature, which is quickly followed by a decided rise, during which 101° or even 103° F. may be reached. Shortly after the maximum has been reached a rapid fall commences, warmth returns to the extremities, and the urine regains its normal character, although slight albuminuria may outlast the hsemoglobinuria for a time. The paroxysms commonly last some five or six hours, but their duration is to some extent proportional to their severity. Occasionally febrile disturbance is absent, and the temperature may even remain subnormal throughout. The patient is left somewhat antemic, especially if several attacks have followed each other in quick succession, but the destroyed blood corpuscles are quickly replaced. As in other varieties of hemoglobinuria, some degree of jaundice may follow the attack, but this is usually slight in character, and is by no means constantly present. As might be expected, the attacks are most frequent in winter, and many patients enjoy complete immunity from them during the summer months. Even in winter the disease VOL. IV remains in abeyance as long as the patient is protected from cold, as, for example, during a stay in hospital. Seeing that in the intervals between the paroxysms the patient enjoys practically un- impaired health, except during the short period required for the replacement of the destroyed blood, and since the attacks themselves are not attended by danger, it is not remarkable that the disease has practically no fatal tendency, and may continue for many years without serious detriment to health. Pathology.—It will be seen from what has gone before that the main features of the attack of paroxysmal hsemoglobinuria are— 1st, the active htemolysis which occurs on ex- posure to cold ; and, 2nd, the vaso-motor phenomena by which it is accompanied. It is probable that many of the minor sym- ptoms are direct results of haemoglobinsemia. If one refers back to the records of cases of transfusion of lamb's blood into human beings, one is struck by the similarity of the symptoms observed with those of the disease under con- sideration. Rigors and febrile disturbance were prominent effects, and among other symptoms mentioned, in addition to htemoglobinuria, were pains in the back and lumbar regions, vomiting, dyspnoea, sweating, and urticarial eruptions. This urticaria followed quickly upon the trans- fusion, and therein differed from that which is so common a result of the modern serum treat- ments. It is further of interest to note that rigors, fever, and sweating were observed by Eitner in his cases of poisoning by arseniuretted hydrogen. On the other hand, rigors and febrile disturb- ance may follow transfusion from man to man, and were also observed in some cases in which transfusion of milk was resorted to. One of the main points to which investigation has been directed is the obvious fact, that in the subjects of paroxysmal hsemoglobinuria the red corpuscles show an abnormal tendency to under- go rapid destruction under influences which in ordinary individuals are insufhcient to bring about such a result. This susceptibility of the red corpuscles is not a congenital condition, but is acquired at some period of the patient's life, often apparently as a result of an exceptional exposure, and when once acquired it tends to persist. The researches of Ehrlich, Chvostek, and others, have clearly demonstrated that in the sufferers from paroxysmal hsemoglobinuria the corpuscles are not unduly liable to disintegra- tion, outside the body, under the influence of cold, and Ehrlich was consequently inclined to attribute their intravascular disintegration, under the influence of exposure, to the secretion of a hsemolytic ferment by the walls of the vessels in the part cooled. Chvostek has shown, on the other hand, and 3