HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 119 result alone, neither visible nor palpable impulse being produced, owing to the depressed vigour of the heart muscle and the alteration in the shape of the left ventricle, that is so apt to be associated with habitually incomplete systoles. Consideration of the heart in sitti makes it at once evident on what principles the physical method of examination by percussion is founded. Except inferiorly the heart is surrounded by the resonant lungs, the anterior borders of which embrace the organ in such a way that a large portion of its anterior surface is covered by them. Moreover, these covering borders of the lungs are wedge-shaped, as they interpose themselves between the heart and the chest wall, that is to say, they become progressively thinner towards their edges. The anterior margins of the lungs separate at the level of the fourth cartilage, the border of the left lung passing outwards and downwards to a point situated over or close to the junction of the fifth rib with its cartilage. The border of the left lung then proceeds downwards and inwards along the sixth cartilage. Thus a more or less triangular space is formed in which the heart comes into direct contact with the chest wall, lung no longer intervening. The lower boundary of the heart, of course, corresponds to the upper boundary of the liver, the two non-resonant organs being indistinguishable by percussion. If, however, we define the upper boundary of the liver dulness to the right of the sternum, taking care to get beyond the right border of the heart—the right auricle—and from the level of the hepatic upper boundary draw a line, slightly sloping downwards, across the chest to the left anterior axillary line, such line will give an approximate representation of the lower boundary of the heart, a fact that is often readily demonstrated by the apex-beat being found immediately above it. There are three directions in which it is necessary to determine the boundaries of the heart by percussion in order to estimate its size and ascertain its shaj)e for practical purposes. From the size and shape of the dull area we infer the relative condition of the cavities of the heart. It is, of course, evident that the accumulation of fluid in the pericardium or pleuree would render the estimation of the size of the heart by percussion impossible for the time being. The position of the right border of the heart should be ascertained above the upper boundary of hepatic dulness by percussing —say an inch above this boundary—from the right mammary line towards the sternum, and noting the first decided diminution of volume in the lung resonance that occurs as the sternum is approached. It is only when the right auricle has l3ecome so hugely distended as to be un- covei'ed by lung to the right of the sternum that actual dulness is obtained on percussion of this region. Anatomically we know that the right auricle in health passes about half an inch to the right of the sternum, thus fully an inch from the median line, but it is covered by such a thick layer of lung here that its presence fails to modify the pulmonary percussion sound. When, on the other hand, we find absolute dulness to the right of the sternum, we are entitled to conclude that the right auricle is greatly distended and probably paralysed, while the degree of its distension is an excellent indication of the amount of obstruction in the pulmonary circulation. When there is no absolute dulness to the right of the sternum, but only a diminution in fulness or a certain "emptiness" of the resonance, as is indeed the common condition in all but most grave cases of heart disease, it is more difficult to fix the exact spot at which the presence of the auricle fii'st modifies the pulmonary resonance, and this difliculty is increased by the approximation of the cartilages as they join the sternum, especially in certain individuals, exerting an influence on the percussion sound. Nevertheless by careful percussion towards the middle line, above the hepatic dulness, the point to which the right border of the heart extends can usually be ascertained with a fair amount of precision. Percussion up to the middle line, that is to say, over the sternum, is unsatisfactory, inasmuch as this bone has a peculiar (so-called osteal) resonance of its own, which interferes with the determination of the percussion sound that would otherwise be yielded by the underlying structures. The next determination to be made is the greatest extent of cardiac dvilness to the left of the sternum. A moment's consideration will make it plain that the portion of the heart that extends farthest to the left of the sternum must be the most important chamber of all-—the left ventricle—and that its extremity represents the apex of the whole organ. Moreover, the greatest extension of the heart to the left will necessarily, owing to the shape of the organ, be at its lowest part in the vertical line of the body. When, then, percussion is made just above the level of the inferior border of the heart and from the left anterior axillary line towards the sternum, the first part of the heart that will modify the pulmonary percussion sound will necessarily be the apex, formed by the left ventricle alone; and, therefore, the greatest extension of the cardiac dulness to the left will represent the size of the left ventricle. When the apex-beat is discernible, percussion can be made directly towards it from the left anterior axillary line. Where there is no apex-beat the position of the apex must be approximately determined, as above described, by drawing a line across the front of the chest, from immediately above the upper limit of hepatic dulness to the left axillary line, almost horizontally, but sloping very slightly downwards. The first dulness met with in per-