469 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS experiences which are in conflict with the main purpose of a man's life. To revert, for example, to the average personality mostly concerned with the hearth, the commonest occasions of in- sanity are domestic affliction, or domestic dis- peace, or financial troubles, or social disgrace. It is friction which breaks a man's spirit—when the circumstances of his life thwart his purposes, or when impulses bred of vicious organisation or wayward habits pull against them. His brain is an arena of conflict between activities which he has made his own and others which are being- forced upon him. Then, if personality is not strong enough and purpose fails, the attention becomes engaged with the irrelevant and per- haps the insane things of a subconsciousness that is without rational direction or supreme government. II. Index of Mental Functions and Symptoms OF THEIR Disorder It is a very doubtful question if psychology can ever become very scientific, and if the knowledge of the physiology of mental pro- cesses can ever be exact. The chief difficulty in the way is that analysis is futile. The solid- arity of the mind is too great, the brain is too compact, to admit of dissection. Hence all attempts to describe the faculties of the human mind are misleading, and even descriptions of particular processes are rarely convincing. But some attempt must be made to indicate the most important aspects of mind, or, as physi- cians should regard them, the mental functions of the brain. Even if our description of them fails of reality, it is still essential to note certain kinds of processes which one should habitually observe. Instincts. — An instinct is an automatic activity, the common inheritance of the race, made manifest in appropriate movements, and, in its higher forms, realised in appropriate feel- ings. Instincts for vital movements are familiar. One need not enumerate them. But comparable to them, at least in their physiological aspect, are other less elementary instincts which sub- serve a social function. These also betoken an innate development which, in every normal brain, is more or less mature before the occasion for their manifestation arises, although, as always, practice makes them more perfect. An enumeration of these must needs be arbitrary and incomplete ; but we may note those of which we most commonly have to observe the failure. The instinct to prolong one's own life and to guard against danger comes first. An arrest of its development constitutes the predisposition to suicide, which is often hereditary; and homi- cidal tendencies mark those who fail of the instinct to respect the health and life of others. Pain and discomfort are generally the occasion for their active manifestation. The normal man is so constituted that pain and discomfort, or the knowledge of them, prompt him to alleviate them. Mutilation of oneself, starvation, and the many degrees of disregard of pain and of discomfort, all very common in insanity, betoken an impairment of the life-preserving instincts. The mating instinct is another, whose arrest, or excess, or perversion so commonly appear as signs of cerebral disorder. Next in importance, perhaps, comes a group of instincts which we may call the domestic — instincts which have developed in relation to family life. Whatever happens, the instinct still persists which attaches us to our own folk; and few symptoms of mental disorder are so tragic as that perversion of the strongest of the domestic instincts, the maternal, which culminates in infanticide. Going beyond the hearth, the step is easy to that instinct which prompts men to get on in the world, and to that other which enjoins upon us to seek the company of our fellows, and to earn their favour. Departures from these, or excesses of them, are commonly to be noted in disordered minds. And lastly among the social instincts we must take note of a patriotic instinct, the highest perhaps of all, for, although we may conceive a cosmopolitan ideal, we can scarcely be said to possess a cosmopolitan in- stinct. The care for our country and for our race is certainly inbred; and, though we do not often have occasion to note a failure of it as a symptom of actual insanity, it is interesting to observe in how many unexpected quarters recent events have made evident the defect of it. There still remains the religious instinct, the instinct to reverence and to worship, which, whatever we may think of religions, is the subjective basis of them. That instinct, as every one knows, often finds abnormal expression in disease or falls into abeyance. It were easy to multiply the instincts and to refine upon them, but those enumerated are sufficient to suggest the others. They consti- tute the foundations of well-organised brains. Any lack of them, any perversion of them, any extravagance of them, betokens disorder; and in gauging his patients' mental health the physi- cian must take careful note of them. And let me repeat for the last time that we must con- ceive of a development of mechanisms to corre- spond to all of them,—a maturation of cells and fibres which represent them,—and a subcon- scious, occasionally conscious, activity in these instinctive centres. These are the primary points of cerebration, so to speak, whose auto- matic activity determines personality. Interests and Tastes can be more summarily dismissed, for the reason that they are more varied and less universal. But it will be obvious to any one who has watched the development of children, or who has thought of it, that innate cerebral organisation determines to a large extent the preferences of the individual. There can be . no doubt, for example, of a specialised sesthetic