HEMIPLEGIA 170 reasons cases ia which the leg suffers more than the arm {see "Aphasia," vol. i.). Trophic, and other Changes.—Besides the motor and sensory symptoms already described, certain changes, depending probably upon some change in the nutrition of the affected side, are usually present. Sometimes the limbs are colder and more blue, as if there were some venous en- gorgement due to vaso-motor paralysis. Fre- quently there is a marked diminution in the size of the limbs as compared with those of the opposite side, the result in some degree, no doubt, of the absence of physiological exercise, in some degree, perhaps, of the actual cerebral lesion and its effect on nutrition. Often the diminution in the limb is associated with changes in the joints, especially the shoulder-joint, which may become fixed and immobile. When this is present the diminution in the size of the upper limb may be very strilving. A few words are also necessary in reference to mental changes which may be present. In the ordinary case these are not very marked, usually consisting in a certain degree of emotional in- stability, so that the patient easily laughs or cries, and in a tendency to be easily irritated. Occasionally in the early stage actual acute maniacal symptoms may supervene, but this is at least rare in the later stages, if it occurs at all. In some cases convulsions occur at intervals after the paralysis is past. These may be imi- lateral in distribution, or bilateral. They prob- ably are to be expected in cases in which the lesion is just underneath the cortex. Actual neuritis may occvir in a paralysed limb, characterised by great pain, glossy skin, and changed electrical reactions. Such a com- plication the wi'iter has seen most frequently in people of a gouty constitution, especially if glycosuria happened to be present. It is nearly alway associated with joint changes, especially in the shoulder-joint. Treatment.—In the acute condition, at the time of onset, this must depend upon the dia- gnosis. If the hemiplegia is associated with a feeble pulse, if it has come on without loss of consciousness in an old person, the condition is probably one of thrombosis, and rest, quiet, easily assimilated food, and the somewhat free use of strychnia and alcohol, are the measures most likely to be successful. If the patient is younger and the condition is regarded as one due to syphilitic arteritis, then the usual anti- syphilitic remedies must be energetically used. But when once thrombosis has occurred, and necrotic changes have taken place in the area subserved by the blocked vessel, even the most energetic treatment is not likely to be successful in preventing permanent paralysis. If the case be one of embolism, rest is essential. The cardiac condition must be carefully watched, and cardiac tonics used if necessary. If, how- ever, unconsciousness be present, and the patient have a tense pulse and a hypertrophied heart, then probably intracranial ha;morrhage is the condition present, and free purgation and other means of lowering tension and ridding the blood of poisonous material are the beginning and the end of effective therapeutics. Should the hemiplegia be the result of tumour, abscess, or fracture, these conditions must be dealt with secundum artem. As regards the condition when it has become chronic, not much in the way of treatment will influence it. Attention is to be chiefly directed to maintaining good nutrition and preventing contractions and other deformities. Contrac- ture is nearly always flexor, and attention should be directed to securing adequate stimu- lation of the extensor muscles by means of electrical treatment or resistance exercises. Massage and passive movement are also usefid in pi-eventing or in minimising contractures. The pathological changes imderlying the con- dition described have already been dealt with in considering the results of disease of the brain vessels (see vol. i. p. 475). (iii.) Infantile Hemiplegia. — Although the state of a patient suffering from this form of paralysis, after the condition is well established, differs in no important particular from that first described, there are certain additional symptoms, especially associated with its onset, which mark it out as a distinct variety, worthy of special mention. Infantile hemiplegia is the term applied to that form of hemiplegia which occurs in early life, usually in the first six years of life. It is ushered in, as a rule, with general malaise, with high fever and one severe unilateral convulsion or a series of such. The convulsion may spread so as to affect both sides. The condition of the child at this stage is one of grave and not in- frequently fatal illness. The convulsive attacks may persist during several days, and when they cease the child is found to be paralysed on one side. At first the paralysis is flaccid, usually without sensory impairment, although hemian- opsia is said to be frequently present. If the paralysis is right-sided, and the child had been able to speak, speech may be much interfered with, but onl}' temporarily, the child probably regaining the power of expression by the educa- tion of the corresponding centres of the other hemisphere. If a patient who has suffered in this way is seen a few years after the attack, the condition resembles closely that already described as occurring in the adult. There is the same spastic rigidity with contracture affecting the arm more than the leg, the same exaggeration of reflexes, and a similar but much more marked difference in size and development between the limbs on opposite sides, those on the paralysed side, especially the arm, being much smaller.