HJ^MATOMA AUEIS 19 a bloody or gelatinous fluid. After a week or two, unless the process is interrupted by fresh haemorrhages, the cyst contents begin to be absorbed, the cyst wall undergoes shrinkage, and ultimately the auricle becomes greatly atrophied, puckered, and permanently distorted. In exceptional cases, quite apart from any surgical interference, there may occur accidental inoculation with pyogenic microbes, suppuration sets in, and the cyst contents become purulent. Such a condition may, though rarely under antiseptic treatment, lead to extensive necrosis and gangrene of the external ear. It is worthy of note that the prompt applica- tion of blistering fluid to the site of the swelling- may, and very often does, not only arrest its further coiirse, but greatly diminishes the amount of the subsequent deformity. Morbid Anatomy.—Examination of a recent case of othaematoma of the insane reveals the presence of an irregular cystic cavity situate usually between the anterior perichondrium and the cartilage of the pinna, as if these structures had been torn asunder by an eff"usion of blood. The cyst contents present great diversity of appearance, being sometimes dark red in colour and watery in consistence, sometimes pale yellow, translucent, and gelatinous. The effusion for the most part consists of blood in various stages of coagulation and decolorisation. The wall of the cyst shows an irregular lining of granulation tissue with newly - formed blood- vessels, which are often extensively degenerated. The adjacent cartilage shows numerous patches of degeneration which are described below, and which in all probability represent the essential preliminary lesion. In all ordinary cases which have not undergone accidental inoculation there is an entire absence of micro-organisms both from the cyst cavity and from the diseased cartilage. As the condition persists, an increased forma- tion of granulation tissue lines the interior of the cyst wall, organises and absorbs the efTusion, and ultimately, by its further development into dense fibrous tissue, produces the extreme permanent contraction and distortion so charac- teristic of long-standing untreated cases. Etiology.—Widely divergent views have been expressed regarding the causation and mode of origin of this condition, but only a brief outline of the more important theories need be given here. Most observers would probably concur in the statement that there is in the first in- stance some local predisposing condition under the influence of which the insane are rendered more prone than those in full mental health, and in the second place some local determining factor to the operation of which the actual onset is due. The nature of the local predisposing cause was first suggested in 1848 by Fischer, who discovered the presence of cysts in the ear cartilages of the insane, and ascribed the occurrence of htematomata to primary hsemor- rhage into them. Subsequently Virchow in 1863, Pareidt in 1864, L. Meyer in 1865, and Tischkow in 1891, confirmed and elaborated these earlier observations. More recently Ford Robertson in 1896 completed an extensive and careful examination of the ear cai'tilages both in the sane and in the insane, and found that in each series of cases there were present de- generative changes similar in kind but varying greatly in degree. The earliest evidence of degeneration is observed in the cartilage cells, which throughout areas of varying size became vacuolated and later disintegrated. The yellow elastic fibres in the same area are broken up into minute droplets and finally disappear. The central portion of the degenerated patch, more especially if large, tends to undergo liquefaction, thus leading to the formation of a small cyst. Vascular granulation tissue then replaces the degenerated patch of cai-tilage or lines the wall of the small cyst. In fifty cartilages from pre- sumably sane patients, Ford Robertson found that no fewer than forty-eight showed some degenerative change, but he states that in the majority of these it consisted merely in the loss of the elastic fibres, and in slight degeneration of the cartilage cells in exceedingly minute areas. Granulation tissue replaced small areas of cartilage in eleven cases ; but only in eight cases had the process advanced to the formation of a cyst, and in no case had vascularisation of the cyst wall occurred. In fifty cartilages from the insane there were as before only two cases in which degenerative changes were entirely absent, but in the number of areas affected and in the extent of tissue involved there was a contrast of the most marked kind. Cyst forma- tion had occurred in no fewer than thirty cases, and in eight of these the cyst wall had become vascularised. There was, in short, abundant evidence of profound nutritional changes of a degenerative nature in the ear cartilages of the insane as compared with those of the mentally sound. Moreover, the young vessels in the newly-formed granulation tissue were themselves extensively degenerated, and thereby rendered unduly liable to rupture. Many other explanations have been offered of the predisposition of the insane to othaematoma, but these are rather tentative suggestions than statements of actual fact. Thus Alexander Robertson considered that a local vascular en- gorgement produced by disturbance of the cervical sympathetic system was the essential predisposing cause, and in this hypothesis he was supported by Pietersen and others. An obvious comment is that in exophthalmic goitre —a disease in which extreme disturbance of the cervical sympathetic system is undoubtedly present—there is no special predisposition to othaematoma. Even such conditions as a blood dyscrasia, a lesion of the restiform bodies, etc., have been alleged to be the chief causal agents.