70 HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF Many of these conditions in the lower animals are, as we have seen, represented, during one period or another of development, in the higher mammals, including man. The external re- spiratory organ of the mammalian foetus, its gills so to speak, is the placenta, and the corre- sponding cardiac condition is but a more com- plex form of the simple single-chamber system of the fish, which gradually increases in com- plexity to that of the more differentiated reptile, and ultimately reaches the perfect division seen in the heart of the adult air-breathing animal. In no process, indeed, is seen more perfectly than in the development of the mammalian heart the evidence of what the older writers called "design in nature," and it is difficult to use any other term even now. The adaptation up to a certain point of existent organs to present circumstances is a well-recognised fact in vital processes, whether physiological or pathological; but the preparation and perpetua- tion of organs and organisms for future use, and to meet conditions foreseen and intended, but not yet present, appear to some to be beyond the power of a mere acquired habit of growth or haphazard fusion of species. The controversy is, after all, however, but a war of words, for the results of " natural selection" are quite the same as those of appropriate com- bination, and the determination of causes from effects opens iip a chain of reasoning one end of which, at least, is lost in infinity, and cannot be wholly explained by physiology alone. (For particulars concerning the anatomical situation of the heai-t, the reader is referred to the sec- tion on Clinical Investigation of the Chest, vol. ii. p. 83.) The Physiology of the Mammalian Heart. —If the heart of a mammal be dissected after having been boiled sufficiently, it will be found that the arrangement of its muscular fibres has an important relation to its action as a vital organ. In the first place, the auricular portion of the heart may be detached from the ventri- cular, and the dividing line between these, which occupies the place of the auricular canal and fretum Halleri in the foetus, is seen to con- sist of fibrous material of a more or less re- sistant character, which surrounds in great measure the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices of the heart, and enters into the con- stitution of its valves, tendons, and interstitial tissue. In some large animals, indeed, a portion of this dividing line situated between the aortic and the two auriculo-ventricular orifices becomes fibro-cartilaginous and even bony. In the next place, the arrangement of the muscular fibres of both auricles and ventricles shows that the organ in its growth lias been at first bilateral and then unified. That is, there are fibres which seem to appertain to each half of the auricular and ventricular portions of the heart, and others which embrace both the right and left auricles or ventricles as the case may be. In the third place, the muscular fibres of the external and middle portions of the ventricular wall appear to be continuous with those which pass into the ventricular septum and papillary muscles (Pettigrew, Phil. Trans. 1864; Quain's Anatomy, vol. i.). There is also some muscularity of the cardiac ends of the two venjie cavse and of the pul- monary veins, which in quadrupeds at any rate is most marked in the case of the superior cava. Muscular elements are likewise said to enter into the constitution of the auriculo-ventricular valves (Foster). Cardiac muscular fibre is of the striped variety, but the strife are not so distinct as in skeletal muscle, and suggest a transition condition be- tween the latter and un striped visceral fibres. The important physiological consequence of these arrangements is, that separate and con- secutive action of the auricles and ventricles is secure, and that all parts of these chambers act simultaneously during the period of their re- spective contraction, and relax at the same time during their quiescence. As a succinct descrip- tion of the cardiac cycle nothing can be added to the following lucid statement:— " When the chest of a mammal is opened and artificial respiration kept up, the heart may be watched beating. The great veins, inferior and superior vense cavse and pulmonary veins, are seen, while full of blood, to contract in the neighbourhood of the heart: the contraction runs in a j)eristaltic wave towards the auricles, increasing in intensity as it goes. Arrived at the auricles, which are then full of blood, the wave suddenly spreads at a rate too rapid to be fairly judged by the eye, over the whole of these organs, which contract with a sudden shai-p systole. In the systole the w-alls of the auricles press towards the auriculo-ventricular orifices, and the auricular appendages are drawn inwards, becoming smaller and palei'. During the auricular systole the ventricles may be seen to become turgid. Then follows, as it were immediately, the ventricular systole, during which the ventricles become more conical. Held between the fingers they are felt to become tense and hard. As the systole progresses the aorta and pulmonary arteries expand and elongate, the apex is tilted slightly upwards, and the heart twists somewhat on its long axis, moving from the left and behind towards the front and right, so that more of the left vent- ricle becomes displayed. As the systole gives way to the succeeding diastole the ventricles resume their previous form and position, the aorta and pulmonary artery shrink and shorten, the heart turns back towards the left, and thus the cycle is completed " (Foster, Text-Boolt of Physiology, Part i. p. 232, Loudon, 1893). The length of time during which these events occur is estimated by Foster to be about 0'8