HERNIA 189 stringent regulations, much good may be done in inguinal hernia by Kingdon's truss. This is in the form of a "hinged cup" and exerts a steady pres- sure on the herniated mass in a direction opposed to that of its descent. It must be worn night and day, and it possesses the " great advantage that it enables a man to continue at his work whilst his rupture is under process of treatment." In 128 cases recorded by Macready, reduction was effected in 88, sometimes in a few days, some- times in two or three years. When reduction is accomplished the " hinged cup " is discarded, and an ordinary inguinal or a rat-tailed truss worn. In femoral hernia pressure may be kept up by a truss with a hollowed pad, but reduction in this class of case is neither so frequent nor so speedy as in inguinal hernia. In cases where rediiction cannot be eiTected some form of truss with an excavated pad, or with a " bag " made to fit the hernial swelling, may be worn, in the hope that a further descent of bowel may be thereby prevented. But what- ever method be adopted it must be recognised that an irreducible hernia is a constant menace, and may at any moment assume a condition which jeopardises the sufferer's life. Unless, there- fore, there are sufficient reasons to the contrary, such as kidney, chest or heart disease, ascites, and so forth, operative measures should be advised if only to render possible and comfort- able the wearing of an ordinary truss. The operation for the radical cure of hernia finds its chief justification in cases of irreducible hernia. Incarcerated or Obstructed Hernia.—In- carcerated hernia is one in which there is an impediment (a) to the return of the bowel within the abdomen ; (b) to the passage of the intestinal contents along the bowel involved in the pro- trusion. There is in fact a local constipation in an irreducible hernia which becomes turgid and swollen, but retains an impulse on coughing. The condition is generally seen in the bulky herniffi of old people. The bowels refuse to act, there is loss of appetite, the tongue is furi-ed and the breath foul. If unrelieved by enemata and the reasonable employment of taxis, operation must be resorted to or the symptoms of strangula- tion will slowly develop. Inflamed Hernia—"Hernial Peritonitis."— In this condition there is a localised peritonitis affecting the hernial sac or its contents. The omentum is very generally the seat of this acute condition, which results in many cases from ex- ternal injury, a blow, imrestrained efibrts at taxis, or the pressure of a badly-fitting truss. The symptoms and signs are mainly those of local inflammation. The impulse on coughing can be elicited. General malaise, vomiting, and constipation, if present, are of such slight severity that they can readily be differentiated from the similar but severer symptoms of strangulation. The onset of inflammation is gradual and is attended with fever of varying height. In strangulation the onset is sudden, the development of symptoms is rapid, and there is shock in place of fever. The patient must be kept in bed, and enemata given until the bowels act well; hot fomenta- tions applied to the hernia will give ease. The diet must for a time be restricted to fluids. Strangulated Hernia.—A strangulated hernia is one in which there is an impediment (a) to the return of the bowel within the abdomen; (6) to the passage of the intestinal contents along the bowel involved; (c) to the circula- tion in the imprisoned contents. A hernia is made serious to life only by the possibility of strangulation. In partial enterocele and in Littre's hernia the obstruction may not yet be complete, either so far as the mechanical conditions or the sym- ptoms are concerned. In a strangulated epiplocele the second condition (b) is, of course, not present. Such a condition, however, is rare, and the case would probably be looked upon as an "inflamed" hernia. Mechanism of Strangulation. — It cannot be said that the precise circumstances under which strangulation occurs in a hernia are properly understood. No question relative to hernia, not even the operative treatment, has had be- stowed upon it such a wealth of words as this; and it is in surgery as in finance—much paper and much poverty may coexist. An enquiry into the history of most cases (not, of course, cases of partial enterocele, to which the following explanation is not applicable) will reveal an appreciation by the patient of the sudden enlargement of the hernial .swelling on exertion. The hernia " comes down bigger than it has ever done before." There is an immediate diflSiculty in reduction. The hernia is not only more bulky but also tighter, more tense, than it has usually been. In such an increased descent of gut there will also be a larger involvement of mesentery. The mesentery, especially if con- taining any, even a moderate deposit of fat, is more resistant, more solid, than the elastic and easily compressible gut. In the narrower portion of the neck of the sac (in the inguinal or femoral canals or elsewhere), which may be supposed to be adapted to the quantity of gut or omentum, or both usually traversing it, there will be only the same amount of room for a larger bulk of tissue. The softer and more readily compressible tissues will suffer, and these are the bowel and the veins of the mesentery. There will conse- quently be venous congestion, and, as Kader's experiments have shown, this will result in a gaseous distension of the bowel involved. Fluid poured out in greater or less quantity as the result of the vascular obstruction will increase the tension in the sac. In this way the condi- tion of strangulation is brought about. If this explanation were correct we should expect to find the point of strangulation at the