352 IMMUNITY Complete immunity is only attained three to four weeks after commencement of tlie treat- ment, hence it is important to begin the latter as soon as possible. Deaths from rabies after the treatment has been carried out cannot consequently be included in any statistics unless the treatment has been completed at least fourteen days previously, for complete protection can only then be hoped for. The treatment has been gradually rendered more simple and efficacious, for instead of injections being often repeated and the degree of virulence slowly raised, fewer injections and a more rapid increase of virulence are now employed. The results in consequence are gradually becoming more favourable, and between 1886 and 1890 the returns from the Pasteur Institute in Paris are as follows :— 1886, treated 2617 ; died, 25 = 0-91 per cent. 1887 ,, 1770: ,, 13 =072 1888 1622; 9 = 0-55 1889 1830; ,, 6 = 0-33 1890 ,, 1540 ; ,, 5 = 0-32 As regards the locality of the bite, on which depends the danger of infection, the statistics of the same Institute for 1890 are as follows :— Bite on head, mortality, 0-85 per cent. ,, hand, ,, 0-45 ,, ,, limbs and trunk, ,, 0- ,, Institutes of preventive medicine formed after the model of the Pasteur Institute in Paris have been gradually founded in every country, and recently also in Germany, where in consequence of police regulations rabies is comparatively rare. The results are everywhere very favourable, and the average mortality is less than 0-2 per cent. {d) Attenuation by the Addition of Antiseptics to the Nutrient Medium. — Virulence can be reduced by the cultivation of infective agents on media to whicii a weak antiseptic has been added. The sporulation of anthrax bacilli can be permanently inhibited by growth in car- bolised bouillon, hence the bacilli can be attenuated to any extent. Such methods pos- sess as yet no practical interest. 3. Protective Inoculation with Killed Cultiores. —In many cases the same degree of immunity may be conferred by the use of dead cultures as by the use of living cultures of the virus, and the method is safer and simpler. Such is the case in cholera, typhoid fever, and plague. (a) Cholera.—Protective inoculation against cholera originated in R. PfeifFer's discoveries regarding tlie immunisation of guinea-pigs by treatment with cholera cultures. Living cholera vibrios are injected into the peritoneum of such an immunised animal, and drops of the exuda- tion are from time to time withdrawn by glass capillary tubes and examined in either a fresh or stained condition. The vilu-ios are seen to lose their motility almost immediately, after ten minutes they swell up, and ten minutes later break up into little balls resembling micrococci, which after another twenty minutes can no longer be seen, and have apparently been com- pletely dissolved in the peritoneal exudation. The same process is seen if the serum of the immunised animal or the blood serum of a patient convalescing from cholera be mixed with living cholera vibrios and injected into the peritoneum of a normal guinea-pig. The normal animal now acts like an immunised one, the cholera vibrios soon die, and the animal remains alive whilst control animals succumb (Pfeift'er's reaction). As the destruction of the vibrios is a rapid one only when the animal has been treated with true cholera vibrios, and not merely with those which are similar, yet speci- fically different, this reaction can vice versa be employed for the diagnosis of true cholera vibrios provided we have a supply of true cholera immune serum. Guinea-pigs may be immunised not only by living cholera vibrios, but also by the use of cultures which have been killed either by heating to 56° C. for one hour, or by chloro- form vapour. In the protective inoculation of man the employment of dead cultures, to which 0-5 per cent of carbolic acid may be added with- out impairing their activity, is obviously of great advantage. The substances which are called into action in the serum of the immunised animal body were termed ^'■bacteriolytic" or specific bac- tericidal " substances by R. Pfeiffer, to distin- guish them from the bactericidal alexins of normal serum, for the action of the former is strictly specific, i.e. directed only against cholera vibrios. This immune serum has no antitoxic action whatever on the poisons contained in the cholera vibrios. The action is merely an anti- bacterial one leading to destruction of living- cholera vibrios, whilst it is always possible, by large quantities of a virulent killed cholera culture, to poison an animal immune to cholera, as already mentioned. Cholera immune serum can act even in extreme dilution. The degree of potency is tested by mixing a given quantity of serum with five to ten times the minimum lethal dose of an agar culture of virulent cholera vibrios, and injecting the mixture into the peritoneum of guinea-pigs. Pfeiffer's standard is the smallest quantity of serum which in one hour and within the peritoneal cavity will dissolve that quantity of vibrios, the weight of the guinea-pig employed averaging 250 grammes. It is now definitely ascertained that as regards the bacteriolytic substances of the immune serum we have, as a matter of fact, to deal with two different sub- stances, the joint action of which leads to the dissolution of cholera vibrios. Such a result may be seen not only in the peritoneum of guinea-pigs, but also outside the body in re- agent glass or hanging drop, if we employ