129 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM honour is due. When the finger is laid on the pulse in aortic incompetence the stroke or " ictus " of the pulse is much exaggerated, not only by the rapidity of its onset, but by the shortness of its duration and its abrupt cessation. Thus the pulse is one moment full and strong, the next it has collapsed. These features are intensified by raising the patient's arm, which renders the collapse of the pulse more evident. If the front of the forearm is grasped by the observer's whole hand the pulse is easily felt up to the flexure of the elbow. The visibleness of the arterial pulsation has already been referred to (Inspection). The sphygmogram possesses very different features from those it presents in cases of aortic stenosis. Only in one minor character do the sphygmograms usually agree, and that is in the tendency to ill-development of the dicrotic wave. The upstroke is perpendicular, the percussion wave exaggerated, and the line of descent precipitous. The tidal wave varies; sometimes it is rounded and sustained, while the dicrotic wave is deficient, and the line of descent slopes more than usually. This type of tracing the writer believes to point to dilatation of the aorta being the essential lesion, the incompetence being secondary in sequence as well as in importance. The other type of tidal wave is characterised by its summit forming an acute angle, as iu the bisferiens pulse, although the cleft between this wave and the percussion wave is much less deep, while the tidal wave itself rises less high. It has been suggested that the two types of pulse tracing described may be diagnostic of the lesion commenc- ing in the channel (dilatation) and in the valves of the aorta respectively, but the writer is satisfied that reliance cannot be placed on this diagnostic point. Again, it is necessary to bear in mind that the lesions—aortic obstruction and incompetence— are apt to be associated in all varieties of pro- portion, and may be so equally developed that the tracing ceases in any way to be characteristic of either lesion. Mitral Stenosis.—The physical signs of mitral stenosis :—Inspection reveals little that is dis- tinctive of the lesion, unless it be in a few cases, the depth of cyanosis, such as is reached, leaving congenital disease out of consideration, only in one other common disease, namely, pulmonary emphysema. The muscular hypertrophy of the neck, and the labouring of respiration in this latter disease, are, however, likely to be so pro- nounced as at once to indicate the primary lung disease. In mitral stenosis venous pulsation in the neck is usually well developed, and along VOL. IV Fig. 3.—Tyi^ical pulse of aortic in- competence. Percussion wave well developed; dicrotic wave almost absent. 4.—Typical pulse of aortic incompetence. Dicrotic wave absent. with it some exaggeration of arterial pulsation is commonly present. The apex-beat is often visible and fairly well defined, and displaced towards the left rather than downwards, while epigastric pulsation (R.V.) is usually evident. Sometimes in severe cases a fulness due to the enlarged liver is easily discerned on insjaection, and is seen to undergo expansile pulsation. Such pulsation must be distinguished from the ordinary form of epigastric pulsation re- sulting from the move- ments of the right ventricle enlarged and hypertrophied. Some- times pulsation is visible above the third left cartilage, due to dilatation of the infundibulum of the right ventricle. Palpation will usually confirm many of the observations made during inspection: for in- stance, the position and definition of the apex- beat, the exaggerated impulse of the right vent- ricle in the epigastrium, and—it may be—true pulsation of the liver. At the cardiac apex valuable information may be obtained from the presence of thrills, which may be in rhythm, presystolic, diastolic, or systolic. The last is the rarest and of least value in diagnosis, and may partake of the caprice so characteristic of the auscultatory signs of mitral stenosis. The presystolic and diastolic thrills are commonly associated, and are easily distinguished with the hand, the former running up to the apex-beat with which it ceases, the latter following the apex-beat after a short interval, while it often runs into the presystolic thrill, which, however, is easily distinguished by a fresh and increasing accession of strength until it is abruptly cut short by the apex-beat. The thrills—presystolic and diastolic—described are often quite as char- acteristic of the lesion as the corresponding- murmurs. The shock of the pulmonary semi- lunar valve closure is often perceptible on palpa- tion. Percussion will indicate approximately the size and shape of the heart. As preponderance of the right chambers is common, increase of dul- ness to the right of the sternum, representing dilatation of the right auricle, is the rule; the right venti'icle, however, occasionally directly modifies the percussible outline of the heart in a curious way, for the change is noticed to the left of the sternum; in long-standing cases the conus arteriosus or infundibulum becoming greatly enlarged, so that the origin of the pul- monary artery is elevated, and the cardiac dulness passes above the third left cartilage. Enlargement, to some extent, of the left vent- ricle is common, as a matter of experience, in cases of mitral stenosis. Exceptionally, however, it must be admitted one finds that percussion