122 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM a systolic murinur is only too likely to be pro- duced by a trivial lesion, which accomplishes as regai'ds results on the circulation an altogether unimportant effect on the blood-stream—it may be a tiny fibrous nodule or thickening of the lip of a cusp, it may be mere thickening and stiffen- ing of a cusp that prevents its natural effacement before the blood current, and, possibly, it may be a pi'ojecting atheromatous patch in the channel of the vessel beyond the valves. On the other hand, there may be extreme narrow- ing of the orifice, yet such grave lesion may be revealed on auscultation by a murmur of the same rhythm as, and otherwise indistinguishable from the nmrmur produced at an actually enlarged orifice and at an orifice onlynominallj^liminished. (We have been constrained to use the expression "at," but "beyond" would be more strictly correct.) Lastly, as if to shatter hopelessly the value of a systolic murmur as a sign of aortic disease, not to speak of obstruction, this same systolic murmur is often heard over the aorta when it is perfectly healthy, as far as we know, in cases of antemia. Notwithstanding, under certain circumstances having relation to accom- panying phenomena, the diagnosis of aortic stenosis may to a considerable extent be based on this murmur, but even when this is the case, it must be admitted that the murmur then only contributes to the basis of the diagnosis: it does not essentially constitute it. As a matter of clinical experience a systolic murmur in the " pidmonary area "—over or just beyond the pulmonary semilunar valves — is common, and, as described in another place, the mode of origin of such a murmur has been hotly debated. This murmur has become in clinical medicine specially associated with anaemia, in which condition of ill-health the murmur is very common. Still the fact remains that cases of anaemia iu a jjronounced degree are from time to time met with in which there is no murmur in the pidmonary or other area. In all kinds of heart disease, again, a " pulmonary " systolic murmur is common, and in certain cases of muscle failure of the heart it may be the only murmur audible throughout the illness, as for instance in alcoholic muscle failure. In long-standing cases of mitral stenosis and like conditions it is not very rare for the pul- monary artery to become atheromatous and to lose its elasticity, so that dilatation is very apt to ensue. Without atheromatous change, in- deed, it is likely that the artery will become dilated after prolonged exposure to high blood- pressure, and this event may, as in the case of the aorta, give rise to systolic nuu-nuir. Even in ordinary cases of anaemia it is con- ceivable that this notorious systolic murmur in the pulmonary area may be produced in this way, the condition of anrcmia seemingly leading to a difficulty in the passage of the blood through the capillaries of the lungs. We know how asphyxia leads to engorgement of the right side of the heart, and it is obvious that interference with the entrance of oxygen into the air-passages, and a diminution in the number or capacity of the oxygen-carriers of the blood, must both occasion some degree of interference with the pulmonary circulation and raise the blood- pressure in the pulmonary artery. Clinicists have long recognised that a systolic murmur over the pulmonary artery is the least valuable cardiac murmur with which they are familiar. It commonly accompanies other murmurs—both those dependent on valve lesions and those dependent on simple muscle failure. In a first attack of rheumatic fever it is very commonly encountered in association with a mitral re- gurgitation murmur, and (a fact of some interest in relation to the theory above referred to) it is commonly also associated with a tricuspid murmur. In the alcoholic heart and other forms of muscle failure, again, it may be the only murmur present. Sometimes it is present although there is no indication of ill- health of any kind, when it may be conjectured to result from some peculiarity in the contour of the vessel—some odd bend or the like. The low value of this murmur in diagnosis is firmly established, whatever may be our ideas as to the mode of its production. Incompetence of the aortic valves is revealed to us on auscultation by a very definite diastolic murmur well conducted, downwards and to the left, over the cardiac area. When any portion of the second sound is audible the murmur runs off directly from it; that is to say, there is never the intervention of a pause between the second sound and the murmur. When the blood tension in the pulmonary artery is habitually very high, as in cases, for instance, of mitral stenosis and pulmonary emphysema, the vessel is apt to undergo dilata- tion whether there be atheroma or not, and, as in the case of the aorta, the orifice, as well as the channel of the vessel, may finally take part in the dilatation, so that the valves fail to com- pletely close the orifice, temporarily or per- manently. Thus a murmur of pulmonary in- competence may arise as a curiosity of clinical observation — the second sound from which it proceeds being always much accentuated. This murmur of high pressure in the pulmonary artery is only an example of the same j^i'ocess that occasions the much more common murmur occurring under similar circumstances in the aorta. As regards their rhythm, mitral and tricuspid murmurs may be: (1) Ventricular systolic; (2) Ventricidar diastolic; and (3) Auricular systolic, commonly called presystolic. (1) It will be convenient to consider the ventri- cular systolic murmur first of all. This nnu-mur indicates incompetence of the mitral or tricuspid valves according to its localisation and position