HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 91 briefly considered. They may be (i.) local, and (ii.) general. Resolution with absorption of the inflamma- tory products and more or less complete repair of the aff'ected portion of the endocardium very probably occurs in a number of the milder cases. Adhesion, cicatrisation, and induration result in a considerable number, leading to persistent valvular disease. Aneurysms of the valves are occasionally formed, but are much more likely to occur in " infective " endocarditis. Rupture of a valve or chordae tendineaj is only of exceptional occurrence. Local myocarditis and fibrosis of the musculi papillares form far-reaching consequences. Secondary infection leading to the develop- ment of a " malignant" endocarditis is a possi- bility ever to be borne in mind. Ansemia when it occurs is probably due to the influence of the rheumatic "toxin." It possibly predisposes to the development of in- fective endocarditis. Embolism is comparatively rare in simple endocarditis, while in infective endocarditis, and in chronic valvular disease, it is of frequent occurrence. Morbid Histology.—The minute changes con- sist in a proliferation and desquamation of the endothelial cells; multiplication of the connec- tive-tissue cells of the subendocardial layer; in- filtration with leucocytes, serum, and fibrin ; and deposition of fibrin and blood-clot on the free surface from the circulating blood. More or less localised myocarditis is apt to occur, with inflammatory infiltration of the inter-muscular tissue and lymph spaces. Micro-organisms are sometimes found in the superficial parts of the vegetations, but usually not in the deeper structures. Many hold that this is evidence that the organisms are not to be considered as etiological agents, but rather dependent on a " terminal" infection. Subacute Endocarditis This form scarcely calls for special description. Both simple and malignant forms may run a subacute course. Associated with the pro- liferative process are more or less well-marked evidences of conservative efforts characterised usually by the formation of fibrous tissue and resulting in a certain degree of deformity of the affected parts. Adhesions between the cusps and chordcE tendinece are liable to occur. The condition readily passes into a chronic stage producing conspicuous valvular deficiencies. Malignant Endocarditis Syn. —Arterial pytemia, infective, mycotic, septic or ulcerative endocarditis. Definition. — A process resulting from the invasion of the endocardium by micro-organisms, and characterised by proliferative, destructive, or suppurative changes. Etiology.—In pre-bacillary days this form of endocarditis was recognised, but it remained for the bacteriological investigations of recent years to clearly demonstrate its dependence on microbic infection. Although always the outcome of microbia invasion, the process cannot, however, be con- sidered a distinct pathological entity, for it probably results from infection by several dis- tinct species of organisms. In some instances the involvement of the endocardium appears as (i.) a primary lesion ; but in perhaps the majority it is found to be (ii.) secondary, either to some other infective process occurring within the body, or having some channel of introduction whence the infec- tive organisms can be definitely traced, as from wounds or septic foci. Thus three classes may roughly be distin- guished :— i. AVhere there is no demonstrable source of infection or evidence as to the channel of microbial entrance. ii. Where there is an evident source of infection. iii. Where the process is associated with other infections, as some of the infectious fevers, pneumonia, diph- theria, typhoid, tuberculosis, and the like. The organisms most frequently met with (i.) belong to the pyogenic group, and include :— Streptococcus pyogenes (including the streptococcus of erysipelas). Staphylococcus pyogenes albus. Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. Bacillus pyogenes foetidus. Bacillus coli communis. ii. Organisms occurring in connection with other diseases occasionally play an important part, and the following have been detected in the vegetations and ulcerations :— Diplococcus pneumoniae. Pneumobacillus of Friedlander. Tubercle bacillus. Typhoid bacillus. Bacillus of diphtheria. Bacillus of influenza. Gonococcus. iii. Some few organisms not as yet known to be associated with any other infective process have also been described :— Bacillus endocarditis griseus. Micrococcus endocarditis rugatus. Micrococcus zymogenes. Bacillus endocarditis capsulatus. Bacillus immobiles et foetidus, and a number of others with less defined special characteristics.