INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 479 Other kinds of genius, still not necessarily degenerate, are instances of extraordinary de- velopments of some special functions of the in- telligence, such as the inventive, which do not imply an all-round sufficiency. Such minds may manifest an arrest of one or more of the im- portant mental functions, and in that case insanity is more likely to overtake them. Physiologically speaking, genius is simply an unusual vitality of nervous mechanisms whose function is such as fits with the environment of the time. The same kind of account must be given of " strong men " (muscular geniuses) as of a great poet. But the sane genius is one whose extraordinary gift is the accomplishment of a mind which is fit for all the essential functions, and apprehends all the essential traditions, of his race. Further allusion to this subject will be found in Dr. Macpherson's article. For these odd minds are apt to end in delusion, or to suffer that combination of degenerate feeling and degenerate thinking which constitutes Para- noia {q.v.). These abnormal variations which we have considered call for prophylactic treatment such as Dr. Urquhart has suggested, and a great future lies before mental science in this applica- tion of its knowledge. But it will not be until the public realise that the brain is an organ capable of scientific management, and not until parents and practitioners habitually observe and study mental facts, that we shall enter into this, the only hopeful field, of mental medicine. IV. The Incidence op Episodic Insanity, with Special Reference to Bodily Signs As an episode in the life of man or woman, whether of the insane diathesis or no, insanity is nearly always ushered in by characteristic signs, and there is no aspect of the subject of greater importance to the physician. Again and again he will be face to face with some one who is in very bad spirits, or unduly exalted, or express- ing some strange beliefs. Is this person then merely depressed or joyous from some passing cause, and are these strange beliefs merely mis- taken but intelligible opinions 1 Or is there here the incidence of an insanity—the invasion of the organs of personality by a disease which may or may not be checked, but which in any case is sure to be grave 1 And these questions should be promptly answered, for a large majority of the insane are curable, and early diagnosis is of the first importance. Speaking generally, nearly every case of in- sanity is attended by a more or less profound disturbance of all the important bodily functions; and the more grave the insanity is going to be, the greater that disturbance is. Before acute insanity the following changes are to be noted:— Nervous System.—Disturbance of sleep is very common, either as sleeplessness or as dreams, much more rarely as extreme somnolence. In melan- cholic insanities anergia is usual—a disinclina- tion for exertion and an oppressive lassitude. In mania and in delusional insanities the patient has often manifested restless energy. The mus- cular system is generally irritable, and tremors, slight spasms, and exaggerated muscle reflexes are almost invariable. A great number of cases complain of hypersesthesia. Digestive System.—Digestion is almost in- variably disturbed, and loss of appetite is nearly constant in melancholia. Dyspepsia is associated with constipation, which the patient is apt to ignore, and the tongue indicates it. Circulation.—In every case in which melan- cholia or mania is imminent a change in the character of the circulation occurs, but there is not always a characteristic change. In both diseases the pulse begins to be variable and excitable and fickle in rhythm. There may be hypertension or hypotension in either disease, just as in sane joy or grief. The important point is, as Dumas proved (Hevue Philosophique, June, July, August, 1896), that the circvilatory change always precedes the mental. He describes a case of alternating insanity in which he was able to predict the attacks from the pulse. There may or may not be stasis and congestion, ffidema and aspliyxia of the extremities is com- mon in lethargic melancholias and in stupor. Changes in the constitution of the blood have often been observed, but the practitioner is not likely to know what any given case normally manifests in this connection. Urine.—We may say of the secretion of urine, as of the circulation, that when insanity is im- pending there is usually a marked change, but that the change is not of a distinctive kind. Per- haps the commonest fact about patients before becoming insane is that, instead of an equable secretion, they suffer from a diminished quantity, with high colour and high specific gravity, with periods of polyurea in which the urine is pale and of low specific gravity. General Constitutional Changes.—These are most important. In a large majority of cases the patient has been losing weight. Very rarely is the incidence of insanity coincident with increas- ing weight. There are two great types of consti- tutional change to be noted. In one set of cases the patient is observed by the relatives to be growing thinner, paler, more wasted and haggard in appearance. In another there is an appear- ance with which I always associate the word " surfeited." To the eyes of relatives the patient appears more gross — not necessarily gaining weight. The complexion becomes muddj-, the expression heavy, the eye dull, and the patient himself may complain of feeling " clogged up." Perspiration is usually very scanty, but the skin may be greasy. This appearance of surfeit is unmistakable, indicates a defect of excretion, and probably denotes toxaemia.