140 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDILTM AND ENDOCARDIUM organs, which, judging from the condition of the spleen, wonld be still worse were it not for the ready distensibility of the liver. Let us next inquire how these principles may be carried into effect in actual practice. The sufferer from heart disease is usually free from fever, and there is no necessity, unless he has temporary gastric catarrh, to feed him on " slops"; there is no reason, usually, why he should not retain the ordinary habits of health and have three meals a day. These should be small in bulk, easy of digestion, and arranged at sufficient intervals to permit of complete removal of one meal from the stomach before the entrance of the next into it, and of course a period of inactivity should be allowed to the organ. Long fasting, as from breakfast to late dinner, is to be deprecated. This habit is not infrequent in the cai-lier stages of heart disease, while the patient is still able to attend to his business. The meals should, further, be as dry as possible, with the exception of breakfast, and on this account only a small quantity of soup (and that clear) is permissible—but soups are not to be recommended. Half a glass of whisky or brandy in half a small tumbler of water may be allowed with the mid-day and evening meals. Breakfast should form the carbohydrate meal of the day, and may consist of thin crisp toast "done through," and not having a spongy centre, which is to be buttered cold, care being taken to have the butter of the best quality, and of a soft- boiled egg, or even two. A large cup of boiled milk, flavoured with coffee or Chinese tea, and sweetened with saxin, should constitute the fluid of the meal. If the patient craves for it, and it is fomid to agree, the fat of bacon may be allowed. The egg may be poached if preferred, or even friecl. If the patient cares for it, fruit may be allowed. Eight or nine o'clock will usually be the time chosen for breakfast, and the mid-day meal will then be taken at 1 or 2 p.m. Cups of bovril and the like are to be deprecated in the forenoon. The mid-day meal should consist of a chop, fish, or fowl, with some well-cooked green vegetables— cabbage, spinach, and tlie like. Boiled cabbage may be squeezed through a sieve so as to break up its fibres, and should be cooked with plenty of butter, if this does not disagree. Reference to butter reminds the writer to allude to the not inicommon experience that certain patients are intolerant of fats, which it is difticult to get them to take, while others, who often experience a difficulty in the digestion of starchy foods, have a great capacity for consuming fats. These and other idiosyncrasies, such as inability to cat the smallest particle of an egg without suti'ering, must be recognised and respected when they are ascertained to be well founded. With the mid-day meal fruit in season, either cooked (saxin being added if sweetening is necessary) or in the natural state, may be allowed. Cheese is apt to prove indigestible; but some patients have a surprising facility in digesting it, and to them a small amount may be allowed along with butter, but on no account is bread or biscuit to be taken along with it. At five o'clock a cup of pure Chinese tea, sweetened with saxin, may be taken, hut no bread or biscuit on any account. At 7 or 7.30 p.>r. the evening meal is taken, and should be, in principle, practically a repetition of the mid-day meal; only, if chop has formed the latter, fish, or fowl, or a joint may constitute the former, and so on. Green vegetables are to be taken again. Patients often demur to taking green vegetables, luider the impression that these increase tympanites. This is not the writer's experience when carbohydrates are at the same time withheld. There is no great objection to a double course — say, fish and a joint,—or occasionally a small quantity of clear soup may precede the joint, fish, or fowl, as it happens to be. Fruit may follow ; cheese is perhaps better avoided. These three small meals will usually be abundance for the cardiac sufferer; more he probably could not utilise, even though he were capable of properly digesting it. The writer used to feed his patients more largely than experience has since taught him to be desir- able. A glass of whisky or brandy in half a tumbler of hot water about eleven or twelve o'clock will often help the patient to a good night, but on no account must any biscuit or hreacl be taken along ivith it. In the case of the so-called working classes the writer is continually con- tending against the terrible " tea-meal" that patients of this class are so reluctant to give up. In a class somewhat higher, this same meal is made still more noxious by some nitrogenous elements of food being thrown in—fish, chops, and the like—to form in the stomach, amid a large amount of bread and butter, and tea and jam, a mass indeed well calculated to frustrate the efforts of the most potent juice to act upon it. The writer has long abandoned the names "dinner" and "sujiper" for the mid-day and evening meals, which are simply so termed ; he is convinced that our working classes would live healthier lives if they deferred the principal meal of the day till evening—say, till an hour after their return from work, which hour is well spent in repose. He has been told that the principal meal is requisite in the middle of the day in order to supply strength and energy for the labour of the day. The taking of a small nutritious meal in the middle of the day, and the reservation of the principal meal till the day's work is over, would in his opinion be a much better system, a substantial breakfast being of course requisite. As already stated, it is astonishing how well, in many lieart cases, the digestive powers are retained even in the presence of considerable