550 INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF given by the bowel. From the use of nutrient suppositories little good need be expected, and if the enemata cannot be retained their expul- sion is a strong indication for early operation. In connection with enemata, it may be mentioned that their use is strongly recommended by nearly all authorities in the treatment of in- tussusception. It is agreed that they have no value in the most acute cases or in cases in- volving the small intestine. It is also agreed that there is a certain amount of danger in their use. Before giving the enema, if this is decided upon, an anaesthetic must be ad- ministered to complete relaxation. Hot salt water, a drachm to a pint, is the least irritating- injection, and as much of it as can be retained should be introduced. The enema funnel should not be raised more than three feet in the case of children, who may be held up by the feet during the administration. It is usually impossible to say when this operation is com- pleted, even when a tumour can be distinctly felt and disappears, that reduction has been accomplished, and valuable time may be lost in waiting to see if the symptoms return. It is usually safe to prophesy that they will do so, and, except in the more chronic cases, in which a short period may be allowed to be wasted with comparative impunity, operation ought to be done as early as diagnosis permits. Repeated small doses of morphia in the favourable cases previously mentioned are often of great service—10 Tl\ of liq. morphia hydro- chlor. in one drachm of peppermint watei', to be given by the mouth, when the patient is restless or in pain, secures bodily and mental rest, and has a stimulating effect on both mind and body. If nothing short of narcotism brings relief, operation is urgently indicated. In addition to the use of stomach lavage, nutrient and stimulating enemata, and morphia, which are the most important means, there are smaller details requiring attention. A hot, moist poultice, large enough to cover the whole abdomen, kept on for an hour and repeated at intervals of eight hours, and replaced by warm cotton wool, is useful. A suitable bed and a good nurse are great comforts, and are important aids to recovery. Operation in Acute Intestinal Obstruction.— In cases of acute intestinal obstruction the sooner operation can be performed the better the prognosis. It is, indeed, now amongst surgeons an established rule that there should be no unnecessary delay in opening the abdomen for any cause producing sudden alarming symptoms, and the sooner this rule is applied to cases of intestinal obstruction the better. That the dangers of delay far outweigh the dangers of operation, serious though these may be, is the most important point to bear in mind in connection with the treatment of intestinal obstruction. During the first forty-eight hours it is usually possible to perform an operation which allows the cause of the obstruction to be dealt with, and which offers good prospects of complete success. Preparation of the Patient for Operation.— As soon as excruciating pain has been relieved by morphia, and the symptoms of collapse have subsided, the skin of the patient is prepared as for an abdominal section. It is of the greatest importance to have a warm room for the opera- tion, and by hot bottles and warm clothing to prevent chilling of the patient on the table. The arms and legs should be swathed and bandaged. Children especially require ex- ceptional trouble to be taken in this respect. Any special instruments, such as intestinal clamps, Murphy's buttons, Paul's tube, should be ready for use, and everything should be prepared before an ansesthetic is administered. Chloroform in the hands of a skilled adminis- trator is the best anaesthetic for general use. Before its administration the patient's stomach should be washed out, to avoid the risk of re- gurgitating septic fluid being drawn into the lungs. Abdominal palpation should be repeated under the ana3sthetic, as a tumour which has previously escaped observation may now be discovered. The incision is commenced one inch above the umbilicus, which is included in an ellipse, and prolonged to two inches below it. The umbilicus is then excised. Excision of the umbilicus removes that portion of the abdominal wall which is most difficult to disinfect. It allows of safe extension of the wound upwards and downwards, avoids the chance of damage to the bladder, and renders access to the abdominal cavity through the umbilical ring easier and safer than any other situation. The incision is then continued through the linea alba upwards and downwards from the umbilical ring, and the peritoneum is drawn forward between catch forceps away from the underlying viscera, and is opened. The first object of the operation—to confirm the diagnosis—will now be realised, for from the earliest stage the intestine above the obstruction is observed to be distended and increased in vascularity, and inflammatory peritoneal exudates are absent. The intestines are carefully kept inside of the abdominal cavity by a warm flat sponge or sterile swab, and a careful search is made in the neighbourhood of the wound, which should be opened by retractors. If nothing be seen there, two fingers should be gently passed in for exploratory purposes, and the most vascular and distended coils of in- testine, which, it will be remembered, are above the obstruction, and which may be recognised as belonging to either the large or the small intestine, are gently pushed aside. The second object of the operation has now been attained, and