14 H^MATEMESIS ptysis ; here the blood is of a bright scarlet colour, alkaline in reaction, frothy from admix- ture with air, and comes up with a cough, and for days afterwards the sputum, if there be any, is tinged with blood. It is, however, possible in profuse haemoptysis for some of the blood to be swallowed and so give rise to secondary hsematemesis. In epistaxis, or in fracture of the base of the skull, if the patient be uncon- scious, the blood may run down into the oeso- phagus and be swallowed, so that it enters the stomach, and when rejected is hpematemesis. When the patient is conscious the blood may pass forward into the mouth and be spat out. Oozing from the gums, carious teeth, tonsils, or pharynx in various diseases may again some- times imitate slight hjematemesis. Anaemic girls not very infrequently speak of having brought up blood, which on further investiga- tion proves to be very small in amount, and to occur in the early morning. In these cases the blood is probably provided by the naso- pharynx. Feigned or hysterical haematemesis is some- times due to industrious gum-sucking, to self- made wounds, or to extraneous blood or coloured fluids introduced into the mouth. The patient's manner and behaviour may arouse suspicion. The mouth and hands should be carefully examined for bleeding points, and the vomit submitted to microscopical and chemical tests for blood. When blood is poured out into the oesophagus it may run down into the stomach, and when subsequently vomited is indistinguishable from oi'dinary htematemesis ; this is particularly likely to occur when the source of the hemorrhage is an ulcerated varicose vein near the lower end of the oesophagus. Sometimes when bleeding takes place from the walls of the oesophagus the blood does not enter the stomach, but wells up with- out any retching or vomiting. This is sometimes seen in ulcerated varicose veins, or in aortic aneurysm rupturing into the oesophagus; in both of these conditions the hfemorrhage may be very profuse. Small quantities of blood mixed with froth and mucus may come from the oesophagus in acute traumatic oesophagitis due to the ingestion of corrosive or irritant poisons, and is of course accompanied by great dysphagia. In rare instances blood and pus mixed together are hawked up from the oeso- phagus, and are due to one of the rare conditions, phlegmonous oesophagitis, or an abscess opening into the gullet. When simple ulceration of the mucous membrane of the oesophagus is present, vomiting from other causes may be streaked with blood. Htcmorrhage is occasionally seen in the course of malignant disease of the oesophagus, which ulcerates early and produces symptoms of oeso- phageal obstruction. But it is noteworthy how extremely seldom carcinoma of the oesophagus ulcerates into the aorta, although their anatomi- cal relationship is very intimate. True Htematemesis.—Characters.—The blood which is forcibly vomited up may be expelled thi-ough the nose as well as the mouth. Shortl}^ before its onset the patient may feel distended, uncomfortable, faint, and become blanched. As the vomited blood passes over the orifice of the larynx cough may be set up. This must be borne in mind, as otherwise this association of cough and blood may be regarded as proof of haemoptysis. The cough follows the hsemate- mesis, whereas in cases of copious haemoptysis when some of the blood is swallowed the cough precedes the haematemesis. Colour.—The blood is usually more or less altered in colour, being darker than the action of the gastric juice; on standing, however, it tends to pick up oxygen from the air, and so to become of a brighter hue ; it is, accordingly, im- portant that its naked-eye appearances slaould be noticed at once. It will probably be acid in reaction, and may be mixed with food. When in copious haematemesis the blood is of an arterial character, rapid haemorrhage from an artery exposed in a gastric ulcer has probably taken place. When, on the other hand, it is black, clotted, and copious, the bleeding prob- ably depends on cirrhosis of the liver. Small " coffee ground" vomit is especially associated with carcinoma of the stomach ; the blood is then very extensively acted upon by the gastric juice, and some question may arise as to whether the coffee ground vomit is blood or some article of food, drink, or medicine, such as coffee, porter, beef-tea, charcoal, or even the mixture of tea and perchloride of iron (Bramwell). In such a case the haemin test with salt and hydrochloric acid, or the spectroscopic test, should be em- ployed, as being more reliable than microscopic examination, inasmuch as the corpuscles may be digested and destroyed. Freiiuency.—Repeated large haemorrhages may be due to ulcerated varicose veins at the lower end of the oesophagus in cirrhosis, to minute pore-like erosions of the gastric mucous mem- brane, or to gastric ulcer, and may so exhaust the patient as to be fatal. A single haemate- mesis is rarely fatal except when a large aneu- rysm bursts into the stomach or esophagus—a rather rare event. It has, however, occuri-ed in some cases of ulcerated oesophageal piles. Small coffee-ground vomiting, especially when repeated, points to carcinoma of the stomach ; here vomiting is reflex, and depends on the irri- tation of the growth. Any blood that happens to be on the stomach is accordingly brought up with the other gastric contents ; in large haema- temesis, as in gastric ulcer, the vomiting is the result of stimulation of the gastric muscular walls by the distension of the organ, and is comparable to the action of an enema on the lower bowel.