HAY FEVER 55 times gives great relief, though its application stings at first, and it does not act so strikingly as cocaine. But it does not exhibit the physio- logical disadvantages of the latter drug. Men- thol sometimes relieves; and the following prescription I have found of the greatest service :—R Menthol gr. 5, eucaine (A) hydro- chlor. gr. 5, zinci oxidi gr. 20, adipis lante gss., paraflf. liq. ad. gj. M. Ft. ung. Sig. : To be applied to the nostrils frequently with a camel- hair brush. During the last few months I have found suprarenal extract, 4 to 10 per cent, as a spray of signal use in a few obstinate cases of ordinary paroxysmal sneezing; and I suspect it will prove beneficial to some sufferers from hay fever. Another point of importance in treatment is the careful feeding and resting of the patients, while they are probably all better for some stinmlant. No special dietary is indicated, see- ing that the patients present no tendency to lithainiia, etc. Various nerve tonics are also useful, like nux vomica, valerian, and asafoetida. Rather than give the patient cocaine, it might be wise to allow the opium pipe. Its use is risky, as patients grow addicted to it, and I have never had to prescribe it; but its power of controlling the worst symptoms is beyond all question. [Dunbar's antitoxin, a serum produced by in- jecting the pollen of rye and other grasses into animals, has been favourably reported upon; it is applied to the eyes as the serum, and to the nasal mucous membrane as a snufl^; it acts best as a prophylactic, and in established cases it modifies the severity of the symptoms.] Hayg:arth's Nodosities. — Osteo- phytes growing on the knuckles in cases of arthritis deformans. See Rheumatism, Rheuma- toid Arthritis. " Ha,Zeiine."—A proprietary preparation of the bark of the twigs of witch hazel {Hama- melis virginiana); it is recommended in doses of one to three drachms in variovis hixsmorrhages (haemoptysis, htematemesis, etc.) and in diarrhoea and enteritis, and it is used externally in the form of Hazeline Cream and Hazeline Snow (B. W. and Co.) in eczema and other irritable skin affections. See also Hamamelis. Head. See also Alcoholism {Acute, Diagnosis, Head Injuries) ; Arteries, Ligature of (Carotid) ; Bandages {Capelline) ; Brain, Physiology ; Brain, Surgery of (Concussion, Compression); Children, Clinical Examination of (Head); First Aid ; Headache ; Head-Shaking ; Hydro- cephalus ; Labour, Physiology of (Passenger, Foetal Head); Labour, Stages and Duration ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism ; Labour, Management of ; Labour, Prolonged, Faults in the Passenger ; Labour, Operations (Forceps, Emhryotomy); Lymphatic System (Glands of Head); Meningitis, Tuberculous ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal ; Physiognomy and Expression ; Tetany (Motor Symptoms). The s/io/je of the head may be quite normal on examination, but there is often a definite abnormality produced by certain diseases. In childhood a departure from the normal shape may be due to several causes. In well- marked rickets defective ossification is a promi- nent featvxre, the sagittal and coronal sutures remain open after the fourteenth month, the fontanelle does not close during the second year of life, and in consequence of defective ossifica- tion and thinning of the bones there may be areas which give on pressure and yield to the fingers a sensation of "parchment crackling." This condition is called cranio-tabes, and is usually most marked in the parieto-occipital region. If rickets lasts for some time there will be hyperostoses on the outer surface of the cranial bones, especially the frontals and the parietals, causing what are known as nodes or bosses, and the head becomes characteristically square. Neither the bosses nor cranio-tabes, however, are pathognomonic of rickets, as they are found in congenital syphilis, and are especially pronounced in those children who are the subjects of both these diseases. In congenital syphilis there is depression of the bridge of the nose, fissures about the mouth, Hutchinson's teeth, and other signs which do not occur in rickets. In chronic hydrocephalus the head is large and globular, the eyeballs are prominent from de- pression of the orbital plates, the superficial veins of the scalp are distended, the face is proportionately small, the head is with difiiculty held upright, the sutures and foiitanelles are widely open, and there is cranio-tabes. In mic7-oce2:)haly the head is small, the vertex tends to be conical, the forehead recedes very markedly, and the sutures and fontanelle close early. In cretinism the head is lai*ge as compared with the body, the forehead, as in microcephaly, is low and receding, but the anterior fontanelle remains open for years, and the eyes are wide set from one another. In Mongolian imbecility the head is short and spherical, and the eyes are set somewhat close to one another, while in achondroplasia the head is large and broad, the forehead is prominent, and the nose resembles that of a bulldog. In acromegaly the cranium is often large, and the sagittal suture is palpable as a thickened ridge. The facial alterations are more pro- nounced, and consist chiefly in enlargement of the zygoma and frontal processes, and especially of the inferior maxillre, whereby the face is much lengthened. Enlargement of the skull is also seen in osteitis deformans, but here the facial bones are hardly ever affected; and also