419 INFLAMMATION peripheral vessels. Therefore it is practically a vascular tissue. In the invertebrate kingdom, on the other hand, the tissues may all be re- garded as non-vascular, as there is no closed system of blood-vessels. They have, accordingly, been selected by many workers as affording a wide field for experimentation and investigation. Without entering into particulars, it may be stated generally that a more or less marked leucocytosis always appears in the irritated area. In many of the lower forms it seems to be the dominant factor, many of the leucocytes after- wards assisting in the process of repair. In the higher forms the leucocytosis is still very promi- nent, but the process of repair seems to be relegated entirely to the fixed tissue cells. Leucocytosis, therefore, appears to be an in- variable and essential phenomenon of inflam- mation, whether the wide or restricted conception of the term be adopted. What purpose does it serve 1 We have already seen that many of the leucocytes act as phagocytes, and that it is at least probable that phagocytosis has a nutritive rather than a protective value. It is possible that this function is possessed by all the leuco- cytes, though other functions are also possible. Many of the leucocytes degenerate and break down, producing substances which dissolve in the tissue fluids and prove hurtful to bacterial life and activity. They may, in other words, through degeneration or otherwise be largely instrumental in producing substances which confer bactericidal properties upon the body fluids. Others may produce fibrin ferment and lead to the production of fibrin threads or masses within the inflamed area. Further, when re- covery is taking place, solid masses of fibrin must be dissolved previous to their absorption, and this must be done largely through the agency of cells which may be leucocytes. There is still another possible destiny of leucocytes which must be carefully considered, viz. the transformation of leucocytes into fixed tissue cells. There is no evidence whatever that this occurs in the case of the polymorpho- nuclear leucocytes, but with the mono-nuclear forms it is not so clear. These may leave the blood-vessels in considerable numbers, and col- lect in the affected area in the more chronic forms of inflammation, in which we subsequently get a marked fibrous tissue formation or fibroiis hyperplasia. It has not yet been shown, however, that the mono-nuclear leucocytes contribute in any way to this formation. Histo- logical methods^ have been so improved of late that it is possible to diff"erentiate clearly the various cells of a tissue in the many changes which they may undergo, and so far no absolute proof of the conversion of mono-nuclear leuco- cytes into connective-tissue corpuscles has been brought forward. MetschnikofF and others have claimed that this does occur in the lower tissues of animal life, as in the tadpole's tail. and although it has never been shown to exist in the higher forms, yet it must be held to be possible, as it has never been definitely excluded. 2. Escape of the Red Blood Corpuscles.—This is a purely passive process dependent primarily upon the change in the vessel walls, and hence is usually well marked in severe inflammations. The nature of the irritant has also considerable influence, some irritants causing it much more readily than others. The greater density of the blood owing to the escape of the exudate, the adhesiveness of the lining membrane of the vessel walls, and the blood pressure, may all assist the process. The escape of the red blood cells from the blood-vessels is known as diapedesis. It subserves no special function. 3. Escape of the Blood Plates.—This takes place about the same time as the escape of the other corpuscular elements. It is somewhat difficult to follow, and comparatively few observations have been recorded, but so far as we know it has no signi- ficance in inflammation. V. The Hole of the fixed Tisme Cells.—The fixed tissue cells play an important part in all inflammations. The changes which they undergo depend mainly upon the nature and degree of intensity of the irritant. They may be divided into two stages, a degenerative or retrogressive stage and a regenerative or progressive one. 1. The Degenerative Stage.—This varies within wide limits, sometimes showing swelling and granulation of the protoplasm, and sometimes fatty, mucoid, vitreous, or other obvious de- generation. At other times the changes are so slight that they cannot be detected histologically, but they are always sufficient to cause disturb- ance of function. The matrix also luidergoes degenerative changes. It loses its elasticity, and fails to exert the normal pressure upon the walls of the blood-vessels. Its resisting power is diminished, and it may show the same obvious degenerations as the cells, or even be dissociated and liquefied. Hyaline degeneration is common in chronic forms of inflammation. The direct action of the noxa is the main cause of these changes, but the absor[)tion of exudate by the cells and tissues may greatly assist it. The exudate is often rich in mucin, which causes swelling, softening, and mucoid degeneration of the tissues. The fixed tissue cells also become detached. In the case of the connective-tissue cells they separate from the fibrous bundles, and in the case- of gland tubes from their attach- ment to the basement membrane or wall of the tubes. The liberated cells may break up and disappear, or they may show signs of division and ultimately lead to multiplication. 2. The Regenerative Stage.—The newlj^-formed cells may produce new tissue after their own kind, and thus bring about repair of lost tissue. This can be well studied in the cornea. If its central part be injured, e.g. by a solution of zinc chloride, a loss of tissue arises at the injured point. The blood-