INTESTINES, SUEGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 541 defects, usually in the portion of ileum occupied by Meckel's diverticulum, when they are prob- ably due to an excess of the developmental involution by which the process is normally obliterated, traumatism, contractions subsequent to ulceration of a portion of strangulated gut, and contractions following syphilitic ulceration, which selects by preference the large intestine. Whether the stricture be simple or malignant, the form of obstruction caused by it is usually chronic, and then dilatation with hypertrophy of the walls of the intestine above the stricture is produced by it, and is an important clinical feature. The ceecum, especially in these cases, may reach such a size as to extend far into the left side. The mucous membrane of the strictured colon is frequently in a catarrhal state owing to the injury produced by putrefac- tion and mechanical irritation by the ffecal contents of the bowel. This oiTers an explana- tion of the frequency with which patients suffering from stricture complain of diarrhoea, which may be the most noticeable symptom. Pouching of the intestine aV)OYe the stricture is not uncommon, and foreign bodies are frequently found in these pouches. 5. Paralytic Ileus.—After abdominal section or the apparently successful reduction of a strangulated hernia, or a severe painful accident, such as fracture of the femur, due to indirect violence, the patient may die in from two to ten days with distended painful abdomen, vomiting, in the end faecal, and complete or partial intestinal obstruction. I have made careful post-mortem examinations on several of these cases, and beyond extreme distension of the intestines have discovered nothing. Such a condition is known as "Paralytic ileus," and the name expresses probably all that is known as regards its pathology. After every abdominal section there is more or less intestinal distension, accompanied by irregular peristaltic contractions causing severe griping pains, and it is rare for a patient to be able unaided during the first two or three days to pass flatus or motion. If this amount of distension, which may be regarded as normal, should increase, the position of the intestines in the abdomen becomes more and more cramped, till in the final stages active mechanical obstruction is caused every few feet by acute bends in the intestinal tube. Hence in the end the difficulty is due in great part to a mechanical cause. The Diagnosis Cases of intestinal obstruction are divided clinically into two classes, the acute and the chronic ; but classical text-book varieties will comparatively rarely be seen. The diagnosis is based upon certain symptoms, and in some cases, unfortunately not in all, on certain definite physical signs. The Symptoms.—Acute obstruction makes its appearance suddenly. Pain occurs as the first symptom, and is very severe, sufficiently so in many instances to cause marked shock. The pain is accompanied by sickness, which is shortly followed by vomiting. The vomited matter consists, at first, of the contents of the stomach and clear fluid, then bile-stained fluid, and finally the vomit becomes ftecal in character. The depression is more marked the more acute the attack. Ordinary symptoms of shock are present; the patient is pale and chilly, has a feeble pulse and drawn face, and a faint voice. There is complete constipation; no wind can be passed, and hiccough may be a troublesome symptom. The abdomen in this stage is re- tracted, and kept fixed in the endeavour to relieve the pain. The most lasting symptoms are distressing thirst and vomiting. Pain. ■— Pain may be local at first, and it is possible that the patient may be able by its help to point out the neighbourhood of the obstruction; later, as a rule, the pain becomes more ill-defined, and is apt to be referred to the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. Although the pain may never be absent, there are, as a rule, intermittent paroxysms during which it is markedly increased. The pain is not aggravated, but may be relieved by pres- sure. Local Tenderness.—Tenderness is of greater importance than pain as a localising symptom. It is frequently to be found over the site of the obstruction, and occasionally the contracting gut may be felt to harden at this spot. Vomiting.—Vomiting is frequent in the early stages of the illness, but in the later becomes less so, though it continues throughout, and in acute cases is one of the most important and troublesome symptoms. It depends to some extent on the nervous organisation of the patient, occurring more frequently in children and in women than in strong-willed men. Vomited matter, with fiscal odour, is the most characteristic sign of intestinal obstruction. The large quantity brought up, the obstinacy with which the vomiting persists, and the force with which the vomited matter is ejected, are also strongly suggestive signs. Fajcal vomiting- is so rarely met with in other conditions that special importance is always attached to it. It occurs, however, in septic peritonitis, but even then it is probably due to mechanical obstruc- tion caused by distension and kinking of the intestines. In two cases of malignant disease involving the stomach and transverse colon, and causing a fistulous communication between them, which have come under my observation, it was present. The tongue is usually moist and foul in the early stages, and there is fearful thirst; later, the tongue becomes dry. Constipation.—Constipation at first may not