204 HERNIA the latissimus dorsi, and in the floor lies the lumbar aponeurosis alone; it is probably the weakest area in the lumbar region. The triangle of Petit is the most usvial point of exit of a rupture, being so mentioned in eleven cases; in three cases certainly, possibly in four, the hernia has passed through Grlin- feldt's triangle. In the remaining cases the distribution has been quite irregular. As causes of the hernia may be mentioned traumatism, abscess formation, congenital defect of the muscles, and the presence of lipomatous masses derived from the subperitoneal tissue, which in their outward bulging drag small peritoneal pouches witii them. The hernia is rather more frequent in men than in women, and on the left side rather than on the right. The symptoms and signs are those of an ordinary hernia. The swelling is soft and globular and generally reducible. In a few cases strangulation has necessitated operation. It has been observed on dissection that the sac has returned with the contents when taxis was applied. The conditions for which hernia may be mistaken are abscess, hernia of muscle, sarcoma, lipoma, and htema- toma. Treatment can l^e carried out by means of an abdominal belt, by the wearing of a specially made truss, taking its fixed point from the opposite hip, or by operation. The latter has been practised by Owen, Coze, Giordano, and Zucker. Obturator Hernia An obturator hernia escapes from the pelvis at the opening for the obturator vessels and nerves. On the under surface of the horizontal ramus of the pubes is a groove which passes from behind, downwards, forwards and inwards, and according to Vinson has a length of 2 cm. Along this groove the bowel or other viscus passes, carrying before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal tissue and the pelvic fascia. In its onward course tlie hernia may pass between the obturator membrane and the obturator externus, above the obtiu'ator externus, or be- neath that upper slip which is occasionally separated from the body of the miiscle by the passage of one or both divisions of the obturator nerve. The obturator nerve is generally found on the outer side of the sac and the artery behind, or behind and to the outer side. The most usual content of the sac is the small intestine ; but the ovary, Fallopian tube, uterus, and bladder liave all been found therein. Symptoms and Signs.—I'he majority of the recorded cases have been recognised only after the onset of symptoms of acute intestinal ob- struction. When a tumour is present it is most readily felt from the inner side of the thigh behind the adductor longus, when the limb is flexed, rotated outwards and adducted. A fulness in Scarpa's triangle may readily escape detection, especially in women, in whom this variety of hernia is very much more frequent than in men. In some cases the passage of intestine through the canal may be felt on rectal or vaginal examination. In one patient, examined by Macready, the finger, when made to sweep round the margin of the obturator foramen, was stopped by a firm cord, about the thickness of the thumb, which could be felt to enter the obturator canal. Pain may be elicited by making tense the obturator externus muscle. Disorders of sensation along the course of the obturator nerve are met with in about half the cases. There may be pain or numbness along the inner side of the thigh or in the groin, the hip, or the leg. This symptom of obturator neuralgia, generally called the " Howship- Romherg" symptom, even when present, has been frequently misunderstood, and may indeed be produced by other conditions than obturator hernia. Treatment.—The mortality of strangulated obturator hernia is 85 per cent. If a hernia were diagnosed it would be almost impossible to adapt an effective truss. There is, therefore, every reason to urge that in all cases operative measures should be practised. The sac can be exposed by an incision parallel to the femoral vein and about 1 inch internal to it. The interval between the pectineus and the adductor longus is sought and the muscles separated or the former divided. Hsemorrhage, copious in quantity and difficult to conti'ol, has resulted from blindly incising the obturator membrane. In order to avoid this the structures sht)uld be exposed, and this procedure will be facilitated by the adoption of the Trendelenburg position and the abduction of the thigh on the affected side. In certain cases the reduction of the hernia through a median abdominal incision may be advisable. Other varieties of hernia, such as ischiatie, pudic, pudendal, etc., are so rare that no description of them is required in this place. Hernia op Special Viscera There are some forms of hernia which derive their chief importance and certain of their intrinsic signs and symptoms from the inclusion of special viscera, such as the bladder, the ovary, and the vermiform appendix. These require, therefore, individual mention. Hernia of the Bladder.—The frequency of bladder implication has been very differently estimated by various observers. As a rule it may be assumed that those operations wherein an opening up of the inguinal canal is practised are the most likely to reveal the bladder descent. In 2543 operations for hernia tabulated by me in my " Arris and Gale" Lectures for 1900, there were twenty-three cases of bladder hernia,