98 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM exists in a large number of the cases in which incompetence is the conspicuous lesion. Aortic stenosis is always due to valvular disease. The actual lesion presents considerable variation in its exact form, seat, and extent. Sometimes the whole of the cusps are so in- filtrated with lime salts as to be separately in- distinguishable, and form a calcified ring, in the centre of which is a mere chink of a lumen. Or the valves may be thickened, fused one to the other so as to constitute a kind of funnel with its narrow end or apex jDrojecting into the aorta. Frequently the segments are irregularly in- volved. In some cases where there is abundant deposition of lime salts, intervening portions of fairly healthy valve tissue may sometimes be observed. Commonly the valves are thickened and rigid, coherent, and, according to some pathologists, rendered rough by the calcification of adherent thrombi, the lumen being often so narrow as to barely admit a goose-quill. 3. Aoj-tic Incom-petence ibith Stenosis.—From what has already been said it will be clear from the pathological necessities of the case that mixed or combined conditions must occur. Such is commonly the case. In a considerable number of instances where incompetence is the conspicu- ous clinical feature some degree of aortic obstruc- tion will be found post-mortem. Affections of the Mitral Valves The nature of the processes leading to de- ficiency of the mitral valves does not differ from those already described as occurring in valves generally, or in the aortic segments in particular. It will, therefore, only be necessary to refer to points of special practical importance. The following forms of mitral disease may be dis- tinguished :— 1. Mitral stenosis. 2. Mitral stenosis with incompetence. 3. Mitral incompetence. Although doubtless in most cases in some stage of a chronic primary valvular disease of the mitral segments combined mechanical defects occur, yet for purposes of practical discrimina- tion, as well as for convenience of grouping and description, the above three classes may be recognised. It may, nevertheless, be best to add at once that in nearly all cases of mitral stenosis incompetence of a greater or less degree takes place sooner or later. Mitral Stenosis.—Left auriculo-ventricular obstruction forms one of the most important of tlie organic diseases of the heart. It occurs in the majority of cases associated with some in- competence. Etiology. — Mitral stenosis is particularly common in females, although met with also in a considerable number of males. While often not coming under medical observation till adult life, and sometimes not until the latter part of middle life, the condition is generally initiated at an early age ; the largest number of cases are met with before the age of thirty. The great majority of cases are due to a chronic endo- carditis. Sometimes this would seem to arise as an acute condition. Rheumatic fever or chorea are the common antecedents. In some instances no definite excitant can be detected. Where no distinct rheumatic history is forthcoming careful inquiry will frequently elicit some reference tO' " growing pains " or chorea. In some very rare instances mitral obstruction has been dependent on the abundant formation of vegetations, or the intrusion of a so-called cardiac polypus or tumour. Morbid Anatomy. — Mitral stenosis is the- result of very conspicuous organic changes in. the valves. The auriculo-ventricular ring and the structures in immediate connection may be involved. Occasionally the narrowing of the mitral orifice appears to be mainly, and accord- ing to some even entirely due to an induration with contraction, and sometimes calcareous de- position in the fibrous ring encircling the auriculo-ventricular orifice and the base of the valve, as well as in the immediately adjacent muscular tissue. Most usually the stenosis is due to extensive changes in the valve segments. The sclerosis and cicatricial formation is appar- ently the result of a chronic inflammatory process.. The A'alve segments, and usually the anterior or aortic cusp is the one principally involved, are much thickened, of firm and oftentimes cartila- ginous consistency, and frequently puckered, shrunken, or otherwise deformed. A variable degree of calcareous infiltration is of common occurrence. The chordfe tendinese are usually greatly thickened, very rigid, shortened, and often fused or firmly adherent in their course to- the valves, forming stiff" ridges of dense fibrous tissue, or actually incorporated into the sclerosed funnel. The apices of the musculi papillares are frequently converted into dense white cartila- ginous-like tissue. The lumen of the auriculo- ventricular orifice is of course narrowed. A normal adult mitral orifice should readily admit two finger-tips. A stenosed mitral orifice fre- quently will only allow of the insertion of the tip of the forefinger, and sometimes the degree of stenosis is still greater. According to the structural deformity two forms of mitral stenosis have been described : (i.) the button-hole form, and (ii.) the fiuinel- shaped variety. In the former the mitral orifice presents the appeai'ance when viewed from its auricular aspect of a slit in a tough and rigid diaphragm. In the latter the contracted cusps, with fused chordio tendinea; projecting ventricle wards, give the aspect of that of a funnel. Often, however, what looks like a button-hole variety when viewed from above will assume a more or less typical funnel-shape appearance when viewed from below. There would, there-