INFANT FEEDING Barley water is often used in this way, and whatever may be the rationale of its use, there can be no doubt that some infants will digest milk diluted thus when they are unable to digest milk diluted with plain water. It may be that such a thickened fluid does to some extent mechanically hinder the formation of large curds, but from a series of experiments made by the writer, it would seem that this attenuating action, if present at all, is extremely slight, and it has been denied altogether by some observers. As a food in itself barley water has but little value ; its most important constituent is starch, and although this is present in very small pro- portion, it sometimes causes trouble, especially in the earlier months of infancy. Flatulence and colic, and occasionally diarrhoea, have seemed in the writer's experience to be due to the use of barley water as a diluent. On the other hand, the laxative effect of barley water may be useful for an infant who is suffering from habitual constipation. Rice water and oatmeal water are sometimes used in the same way. The former has less laxative action than barley water, and may therefore be useful where there is a tendency to diarrhoea. Oatmeal water, although it has a distinct laxative effect, con- tains less starch than barley water, and may agree where barley water has failed. Gelatine is occasionally used in the form of a thin jelly, in the proportion of one teaspoonful to about four ounces of milk and water. The methods of preparation of these diluents are as follows :— Barley water is made by putting two tea- spoonfuls of pearl barley into a pint of cold water, boiling slowly down to two-thirds of a pint, and then straining; or by mixing one tea- spoonful of prepared barley (in powder) with one pint of boiling water, and then boiling for ten minutes. Whichever way it is made, a fresh supply must be prepared twice a day, and it must be kept in a cool place. Rice water is made by soaking one tablespoon- ful of rice, which has previously been washed with cold water, in a quart of water at tepid heat for three hours; it is then boiled slowly for an hour, after which it is strained. Oatmeal water is made by mixing one table- spoonful of oatmeal with a pint of boiling water, and boiling slowly for one hour; water must be added as necessary to make up the quantity after boiling to one pint; then strain. Gelatine jelly is made by soaking one tea- spoonful of gelatine in a teacupful of cold water for three hours, then standing it in hot water which is kept boihng until the gelatine is dissolved. Another method which is occasionally useful, and which, perhaps, has some mechanical action as suggested above, is to add to the milk, after dilution with plain water, a very small quantity of some malted preparation of cereals, such as Mellin's food; half a teaspoonful or one tea- spoonful of this added to the feed of milk and water will sometimes enable an infant to digest the casein of the milk. Lime-water may often be used with advantage instead of, or in addition to plain water. This not only serves to dilute the proteids, but also seemed, in some experiments made by the writer, to have a definite though slight effect in diminish- ing the size and firmness of the curd ; it also corrects the acidity of the cow's milk, and un- doubtedly increases its digestibility. Lime-water should be used in the proportion of at least one tablespoonful to a three-ounce mixture of milk and water. A solution of sodium bicarbonate (gr. iv. to gj.) may be used similarly ; it has the advantage that it does not cause constipation as lime-water often does. For this very reason, however, lime-water is usually to be preferred as a diluent in cases of diarrhea, and in such cases two tablespoonfuls may be given in a three- ounce feed. The more concentrated form of lime-water known as liquor calcis saccharatus is sometimes more convenient; a teaspoonful of this to four tablespoonfuls of water gives a solution of nearly the same strength as the ordinary lime-water. A simpler way of using it is to add the saccharated lime solution directly to the food, for instance, to a three-ounce feed of milk and water fifteen drops of the li(iuor calcis saccharatus should be added. The addition of an equal quantity of any of the diluents mentioned will reduce the propor- tion of proteids in cow's milk to 2 per cent, as in human milk; but the relative proportions of casein and lactalbumin remain exactly as before, so that the casein is still much more than in human milk; this can be seen from the corn- parison below. Experience shows that it is this excess of casein, and the large solid curd result- ing therefrom, which is the chief difficulty in the use of cow's milk for infants' food, and in many cases an infant will not digest cow's milk until the dilution is carried so far that the casein is reduced to about the same percentage as in human milk,—in other words, the cow's milk has been diluted with three or even four times its quantity of the diluent. Whatever dilution is used it is evident that all the other constituents of the milk are diluted at the same time, so that the percentage of fat which was previously the same as in human milk becomes too low, and the already insuffi- cient proportion of sugar becomes even less sufficient. This may be seen from the following figures:—• Cow's Milk diluted with an equal quantity of Water— Proteids— Casein, 1-63 ") _ 2-0 per cent Lactalbumin, '37 / Fat }T° Sugar '-^'O ,t