339 ICHTHYOSIS writer has seen markedly good results from the use of thyroid extract, quite comparable to those obtained by the same drug in myxoedema. Five grain tabloids once or twice a day given after or during meals are the handiest form of adminis- tration. The well-known constitutional effects of the drug must, of course, be carefully looked for, and the treatment stopped or suspended on their manifestation. Ichthyosis Hystrix Gravior. — Syn. : Por- cupine skin, hystricisnms, leontiasis hystrix. Definition.—A condition arising in early in- fancy in which the skin is generally, but not universally, covered by localised warty epidermic growths or horny masses. Historical.—No description of this rare dis- ease is complete without reference to the famous Lambert family of which several members appeared in England, France, and Germany as "porcupine men" at the end of the last and beginning of the present century. The first case observed in the family was a man in whom the disease appeared when he was about two months old. He had six children, all males, who all developed the disease at the same age. Five of these sons died in childhood, and the remaining one had nine children, two boys and seven girls. The sons again were similarly affected, while the daughters were all unaffected. The disease appeared again in the next genera- tion in a male child of one of these sons. The disease was therefore present in ten individuals in four generations. In some cases the horny growths were shed at regular intervals. Clinical.—In the majority of cases the disease appears at the age of about two months, and becomes well marked at an early age. The general appearance of a case of hystrix may be gathered from the suggestive names given to the condition. Ichthyosis Hystrix Mitior. — Syn. : /. hystrix partialis ; neuropathic papilloma ; nerve noevus; ncevus verrucosus, linearis, unius lateris. Historical.—The earliest cases were recorded by Thomson in 1829 under the name of "papil- lary nsevus." Barensprung, in 1863, pointed out the dis- tribution of the lesions and its similarity to the distribution of Herpes Zoster. Symptoms.—-The condition, although probably always present at birth, may not be noticed until the lesions become more pronounced and papillary at the end of two or three months. At this age the lesions show their characteristic grouping in lines or streaks, and are more or less soft and brownish in colour. As age advances the lesions tend to become more prominent, harder, and of a deeper colour. They consist of papillomatous or warty growths either arranged in patches or lines and streaks, which tend to run transversely on the trunk and longitudinally on the limbs. The skin surrounding the lesions is often deeply pigmented. The presence of these warty growths does not affect the general health. In some cases itching is complained of, while in other cases the diseased areas may become inflamed. If the lesions are in such situations as the axillae, they may become very vascular and grow rapidly. They are then liable to bleed, fungate, and ulcerate with an offensive discharge. Mucous membranes are as a rule not affected, but Church describes a case in which the palate, tongue, and inside of the cheek were affected, and Ryan saw a case in which the palate was alone involved. In some cases epilepsy and other nervous manifestations are associated with the disease. Causes.—The sexes are affected in about equal proportions, and there is no evidence either of family prevalence or hereditary transmission. The distribution often corresponds to some cutaneous nerve, and sometimes follows the deep nerves of the part. In some cases, as pointed out by Phillippson in 1890, the lines and streaks correspond to " Voigt's lines," i.e. the lines of intersection between the areas of distribution of the cutaneous nerves. In other cases the dis- tribution appears to correspond to the lym- phatics of the part (Heller), or to metameric developmental fissure-lines (Unna). Pathological Anatomy.—The papillae of the corium are markedly enlarged, the connective tissue is loose in structure, the elastic fibres are either atrophied or entirely absent, and the arteries enlarged. The stratum corneum is greatly hypertrophied. Kerato-hyalin and eleidine are abundant in the granular layer which is well developed. The rete Malpighii is reduced in thickness and deeply pigmented in its lowest layer. Dilatation of the sweat ducts is a marked feature in many cases, but the sebaceous glands and ducts are normal. Treatment is generally only necessary when the lesions are unsightly from being situated on the face, neck, or hands, or when the local irritation or inflammation gives much trouble. For small growths temporary or even per- manent relief may be given by using a strong solution of salicylic acid or resorcin in collodion, or by repeated paintings with tinctui'e of iodine. For larger growths, free removal either with the galvano-cautery or with the knife is to be recommended. Local Hyperkeratosis. — Under this name are considered several conditions in which thickening of the horny layer of the skin occurs in localised patches. This thickening may be found on any part of the body, but is more commonly seen on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, a fact no doubt explained by the normal thickness of the epidermis and the liability of these parts to frequent and various forms of irritation.