334 HYSTERIA, SURGICAL ASPECTS OF structioii seems to occur from much the same cause as retention of urine in hysterical females. The patient seems to exercise an inhibitory influence over the intestinal peristalsis, with the result that there is constipation and also sickness. In my experience the diagnostic point is that the sickness has not the well-known characteristics of obstruction vomiting, and is never fjeculent. On the other hand a powerful purgative, which would be dangerous in a real case of obstruc- tion, is usually quite successful in overcoming the patient's inhibition of her peristalsis, and in getting rid of the obstruction. Massage has also been successful in such cases. Hysterical Contractures.—While these are described in the general article (p. 314) it may be advisable to refer briefly to their surgical bearings. Such cases, in my experience, are not usually purely hysterical. There is the history of an injury or of some joint affection. The case has, however, become hysterical because the dominant factor standing in the way of recovery is the unwillingness of the patient to make the necessary efforts, or to use the necessary means for recovery. Let me put the matter another way. In making our diagnosis we have to settle whether the case is one of pure hysteria, or of hysteria affecting a joint or group of muscles that once were inflamed, or of hysteria grafted on to a pathological condition the result of some previous affection. To arrive at a correct diagnosis in such cases it is generally advisable to place the patient under the influence of an anaesthetic. Before deciding we must investigate into all possible causes of contracture, such as joint disease, nervous affections, muscle affections and adhesions. We must not forget that permanent muscle changes may result from long-continued hysteri- cal contractures. Jolly says that contractures may occur after a hysterical convulsion. Under an ansesthetic any adhesions will usually be both diagnosed and broken down easily. Treatment.—What I have to say on the subject from the surgical point of view must be necessarily very brief. Paget says that we have three things to treat—the constitution, the nervous condition, and the local symptoms. As regards the first, there is a general consensus of opinion against the employment of narcotics and alcohol. Such pathological conditions as gout, rheumatism, syphilis, struma, antemia, and oxaluria must be treated secundum artem. The patient should have good food, fresh air, change of scene and climate, warmth, and tonics judiciously selected. Sleep should be procured naturally, and for this purpose exercise, especially in the open air, is advisable. The nervous condition should be treated by moral means. The will should be educated. There should be no threats or forcing (Jolly). And the patient should be separated from her friends. Hypnotic suggestion has been tried and has succeeded in some cases. I have seen it signally fail. Now with regard to the treatment of the local symptoms, seeing that these, in hysterical cases, are imaginary and fictitious, their treat- ment must necessarily be largely moral and through the nervous system. Holmes tells us to commence with the re- moval of all possible irritants. These are not always easily discovered. We must investigate the digestive, nervous, circulatory, and sexual systems. In regard to strictly local applications oj^inions vary. Of such simple things as heat and cold, we have Paget, on the one hand, stating that warmth is necessary and cold objectionable, while Jolly holds the converse opinion. Probably the question really is, which would have the greater moral effect in any given case. Gal- vanism also should be employed according to its moral influence. Countei'-irritation is often very useful and is best applied lightly and frequently ; moral inflvience again being desired mainly. Massage has great possibilities, employed both on the Weir-Mitchell principle and locally to a joint or back. Massage should always be applied and administered under the advice and supervision of a doctor. Surgical operations are not, in my opinion, advisable. They may be temporarily useful in removing a painful part (such as the mamma or testicle), or by leading the patient to believe that some disease has been removed or relieved (moral influence) ; but the ultimate result is unsatisfactory. The pain, which has been tem- porarily relieved, recurs in some other part. In a word, the real disease, the hysteria, is not cured, and cannot be cured by such means. There is another kind of surgical operation which may under exceptional circumstances be desired, viz. when a definite diagnosis cannot be arrived at. Under these circumstances an exploratory incision may be thought of. Personally I do not approve of such operations. To begin with, they are an admission of failure. It is said that the slight operation can do no harm, and that the moral effect may be very considerable, the patient being led to believe that a curative operation has been performed. As I have already said, the local eff"ect soon passes off, and the patient finds out that she has been deceived, and the moral effect is unfavourable. On the other hand, it is said that if no disease be found the patient will be convinced on being told this. That is not my experience. I have