INDIGESTION 388 When the symptoms observed point to irri- tative dyspepsia, and the gastric contents contain a normal proportion of free hydro- chloric acid, or even a somewhat diminished amount, treatment should be directed towards mitigation of the irritant effects of the free acid and improvement of the state of the blood. In such cases many of the ferrous salts are well tolerated. It is a much more troublesome matter to treat successfully ansemia complicated by atonic and hypo-acid indigestion, for htematinic drugs are ill borne by the stomach, w^hile measures devised for removal of the gastric condition are often prone to harm rather than benefit the aneemia. The most i-ational method to adopt, perhaps, is to endeavour, in the first place, to improve the powers of gastric digestion, giving at the same time such non-irritating tonic drugs, not necessarily ferruginous, as strychnine, phos- phoric acid, etc., and then combining with the gastric measures, when the stomach has re- covered much of its tone, one of the least astringent preparations of iron — selection of the individual form being made in each case after careful consideration of all the surround- ing circumstances, and guided by the results of actual trial. Dilated Stoinach.—As the symptoms of in- digestion accompanying dilatation of the stomach are mainly those of delayed emptying of that viscus, with consequent stasis of and subsequent onset of fermentative processes in its contents, treatment must be directed towai'ds removal or relief of such aberration of function, but nuist also take cognisance of the primary cause which has led to the dilatation, whether it is the sequel to pyloric obstruction, organic or spas- modic ; be the result of myasthenia gastrica, with loss of resiliency of the muscular coat; of habitual over-filling of the organ throughout a prolonged period of time ; of frequent over- distension in flatulent dyspepsia ; or, again, the after-eflfect of repeated and protracted attacks of chronic catarrh. Little can be done to relieve the symptoms which are due to organic pyloric stenosis, save by regular removal of the stomach contents with the stomach tube, after every chance has been given for the absorption of all available nutriment through the stomach mucous membrane on each occasion; or by operative interference and excision of the constricted pylorus with formation of a gastro-duodenal intercommunication. Spasmodic closure of the pyloric sphincter is commonly the result of irritation from hyperacid contents of neurotic origin; and the gastric dilatation which some- times follows repeated attacks of this form of contracture, may readily disappear on removal of the exciting cause, provided that hypertrophy of the pyloric tissues has not been induced to any great extent. The treatment of gouty indigestion, par- ticularly where the indigestion belongs to the chronic nervous variety, is fraught with many difficulties. The gastric and intestinal symp- toms can rarely be treated save to the detri- ment of the gout; the gout, but with harm to the dyspepsia. In some it may appear advisable to deal directly with the digestive symptoms first; in others to influence them indirectly through the alleviation of the gouty habit. If the type of indigestion present permit, fractional dieting, mostly by milk, with copious flushings out of the organism with large amounts of plain water, or non-irritating mineral waters, such as Contrexeville, may benefit both factors. Indig'O. See Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Indigo Figments); Toxicology (Arsenic); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Calcidi, Indigo). Indig'Ouricl.—The presence of indigo in the urine, due to decomposition of indican. Indol.—Amido-ethyl-benzene. See F^ces (Odour, Aromatic Substances); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Bacterial Action in the Alimentary Canal); Physiology, Excretion {Urine, Sid^jhnr-containing Bodies). Indoxyl. See Physiology, Excretion {Urine, Sulphur-containing Bodies); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Aromatic Substances). IndOXyluria.—The presence of indoxyl {'j.v.) in the urine. Induced Electricity. See Physio- logy, Tissues {Muscle, Methods of causing Con- traction). Induction of Labour. See Labour, Operations {Prematur-e Induction of Labour). Induration.—An increase in the con- sistence of an organ or tissue due to the growth in it of tissues harder than that of which it is normally composed, e.g. fibrous tissue; it may be caused by prolonged venous congestion. Industrial Diseases. See Trades, Dangerous ; Toxicology. Inebriate Act. *S'ee Alcoholism (7Vea^ ment. Social). Inebriety. &e Alcoholism ; Vice. Inertia.—Atony or diminished power of action, e.g. inertia uteri, when in labour that organ has its power of contraction lessened, and mental inertia in which there is sluggishness of mental action. Infancy and Infant. See Atrophy, Infantile ; Children, Development of ; Chil- dren, Clinical Examination of ; Cholera Nostras; Climate {Hot, Infantile Mortality);