243 HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF Its claims to be called rheumatic rest iipon the facts that it has been observed to follow upon acute articular rheumatism, that it may show exacerbations or relapses attended with pyrexia, and that it is met with in patients who have a family history of acute rheumatism or of inflam- mations of serous membranes. It is probable, however, that some of the joint lesions described as rheumatic may be of gonorrhcBal or other pyogenic origin. While it is regarded as dis- tinct from arthritis deformans, it may merge into that disease, and ultimately present the altera- tions in the bones which are characteristic of it. The clinical features of chronic rheumatism of the hip are similar to those observed in other joints; progressive stiff'ness and deformity are the outstanding features, associated with con- tracture of the soft parts and fibrous ankylosis of the joint; the patient very often becomes a helpless cripple, and has to spend the rest of his life in bed or on a bath chair. The prognosis is unfavourable. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as in other joints. This subject is further described in the article " Rheumatism." Arthritis Deformans—Osteo-arthritis— Malum Cox^ Senile This disease is comparatively common at the hip, either as a monarticular affection or simul- taneously with other joints. While the etiology of the disease in general is obscure, in the hip it frequently develops after an injury. The chaiifies in the joint are characteristic of the " dry " form of the disease, and are chiefly met with in the cartilages and bones; the synovial changes which are so prominent in the knee are here of little clinical importance. The atrophy and wearing away of the articular surfaces is accompanied by the new formation of cartilage and bone around their margins; the head of the femur may acquire the shape of a helmet, or of a mushroom, or of a limpet shell; from absorption taking place in the neck of the femur, the head may come to be sessile at the base of the neck, and may occupy a level considerably below that of the great trochanter. The acetabulum " wanders" backwards and upwards as in tuberculous disease ; it is usually deepened, its floor may project on the pelvic aspect, its margins may form a projecting collar which overhangs the neck of the femur, or grasps the latter so that even in the macerated condition the head is imprisoned in the socket, and the joint is locked. The eburnation of the articular surfaces resembles that seen in other joints. The degenerative changes may extend to the upper part of the shaft of the femur, and result in curving of the shaft and neck, suggest- ing a resemblance to a point of interrogation, and marked depression of the head of the bone below the level of the great trochanter. The changes described are necessarily associ- I ated with great restriction of the movements of the joint and with striking deformity; the deformity consists in shortening of the limb, usually with eversion, sometimes with flexion and adduction ; the trochanter is nearly always displaced upwards and backwards. The clinical features are those of arthritis deformans in general, and are usually so cha- racteristic that there is little difficulty in the diagnosis. The prominence of sciatic pain in some cases (from the nerve being involved as it passes over the joint) may lead to the disease being regarded as sciatica; the restriction of the movements of abduction and adduction, the presence of cracking and of grating of the articular surfaces, and the aggravation of the pain and stiff'ness after resting the limb, are helpful in recognising arthritis deformans. The greatest difficulty is met with in cases where the disease occurs in early life as a monarticular affection, for the resemblance to tuberculosis may be so close that the diagnosis may be impossible until the joint is explored by operation ; even skiagraphs may fail to differ- entiate between them. The treatment, in addition to that of arthritis deformans in general, consists in maintaining the normal movements of the joint, and in diminishing the pressure on the articular sur- faces by the use of sticks or crutches. Shorten- ing of the limb niay be compensated for by heightening the sole of the boot. Forcible movements of the joint under an anaesthetic often do more harm than good. Excision of the joint has yielded very satisfactory results; it is indicated where the patient, while healthy otherwise, is neither too old nor too fat, and is unable to walk on account of pain and deformity. NeURO-A RTHROPATHIES CharcoVs disease is met with in individuals, usually men over 30, who are suffering from incipient or well-developed tabes dorsalis. One or both hip-joints may be affected. Sometimes the development of a fluctuating swelling in the upper part of Scarpa's triangle may iiadicate the presence of hydrops; in many of the re- corded cases, however, attention has been first directed to the disease by the occurrence of dislocation from slight violence. The absence of pain and tenderness is always characteristic. When dislocation has occurred the limb is short, the upper end of the femur is freely movable on the dorsum ilii; the I'otation arc of the great trochanter may be much reduced as a result of the disappearance of the head of the bone; there may be considerable formation of new bone, giving rise to large tumour-like masses in relation to the capsular ligament and to the muscles surrounding the joint. When both hips are dislocated the attitude and gait are similar to those observed in bilateral congenital dislocation.