HYPNOTISM 301 all his cases were hysterical, claimed that the successful treatment by suggestion of that class alone, marked a therapeutic advance of no little importance. Our asylums, he said, contained a large number of hysterical insane, who were violent and dangerous, and who inspired both disgust and pity by their tendency to drink and steal, and by their lies, dirtiness, obscene and unnatural acts. Many of those, who had long been asylum inmates, were, thanks to hypnot- ism, now leading active and useful lives. Later, Forel himself reported a case of delu- sional insanity, which he had successfully treated by hypnotism. The question whether insanity in its graver forms can be cured by hypnotism is still an open one, but one must not forget, in endeavouring to estimate the value of this form of treatment, that the experiment practically dates from Voisin's first case in 1880, and that comparatively few attempts have been made by others to give the method a fair trial. The value of the Bethlem cases is much lessened by the fact that in no instance did the number of attempts to induce hypnosis exceed nine, while in six cases only one was made. A certain proportion of the insane are cured or recover, and it seems reasonable to suppose that a method of treatment which, without drugs, can produce sleep, remove excitement and other morbid mental conditions, may prove a valuable remedial agent. Epilepsy.—Here, the results are encouraging, but not conclusive. In some instances, hystero- epilepsy may have been mistaken for genuine epilepsy, while in others, sufficient time has not elapsed to enable us to judge of the permanency of the cure. On the other hand, if other medical men have not obtained successes equal to those claimed by Wetterstrand, few, if any of them, have employed his special method, viz. pro- longed hypnotic sleep. Other Diseases.—Apart from insanity and epilepsy, the therapeutic results must be re- garded as satisfactory, and the following are some of the more important points as to the statistics on which these results are based :— 1. The cases observed have been numerous. Thus, to take a few examples, van Eeden and van Renterghem treated 1089 persons between the years 1887 and 1893, while Wetterstrand's cases up to 1893 amounted to 6500. Liebeault has published no complete record of his thirty years' practice, but, from 1887 to 1890, he treated 1756 cases. From 1882 to 1886, Bern- heim attempted to hypnotise 5000 of his hospital patients, while a few years later the number had risen to 10,000. In the first year of his hypnotic practice, Forel treated 205 patients, many of whom were insane. In 1898, he informed me that he had tried to hypnotise about 1000 persons, and had succeeded with over 95 per cent. 2. Many of the observers, notably Forel, had already gained distinction not only in medicine, but in other departments of science. 3. The majority of the observations were checked by others. Thus, Bernheim's cases were watched by Beaunis and Liegeois, while the majority of Voisin's were hospital patients, who were under the observation of keenly critical and sometimes hostile colleagues. Further, the cliniques, even when these were not hospital ones, were always open to other medical men, and I have spent many weeks amongst the patients of Liebeault, Forel, Wetterstrand, van Eeden, van Renterghem, Bernheim, etc. In the therapeutic section of this article suc- cessful cases are alone cited. Naturally, how- ever, hypnotism, like other methods, has its failures. These are due to many causes, amongst which the following may be cited:—(1) The selection of unsuitable cases. Organic diseases, which do not respond to other forms of treat- ment, are equally incurable by hypnotism. In such maladies, however, some of the symptoms are due to functional disturbances, excited be- yond the actual limits of organic lesion, and these are often relieved by hypnotism. (2) Hypnotism is rarely resorted to until all other forms of treatment have failed. The disease is thus engrained, as it were, and the patients have the fixed idea that they cannot be cured. Recovery, under such circumstances, gives a special significance to hypnotic statistics. (3) The time allowed is often far too short. Patients who for twenty years have tried other methods in vain, grudge giving a few months to hypnotism, while others regard the treatment as a sort of operation, which they condemn as unsuccessful if it does not cure at the first sitting. In judging hypnotic results, therefore, there are three things which ought specially to be re- membered, (a) The cases treated in this country are almost invariably those which have been un- relieved by other methods. (6) Even under these unfavourable circumstances, the percentage of success is high, and many functional nervous disorders, which apparently receive little or no benefit from drugs, are relieved or cured by hypnotism, (c) Further, with due care hypnotic treatment is absolutely devoid of danger. The will is strengthened instead of weakened, and the patients soon learn to rely upon themselves instead of upon the operator. Hypnotism in Surgery Esdaile justly claimed that painless mesmeric surgery was common in his hospitals, years before the days of ether and chloroform. The following cases from my own practice illustrate hypnotism as an anaesthetic :—Miss A., aged 20.—Double strabismus. Operated on by Bendelack Hewetson, 1889. Hypnotic antcsthesia alone. The patient turned her eyes as directed, so as to put the muscular fibres on the stretch. Later, she sustained a severe fracture of the