72 HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF Finally, Sir Richard Quain {Proc. of the Royal Soc. June 1897) expressed the opinion that the first sound of the heart was the result of the ventricular blood being projected by a spiral movement, as shown by Professor Pettigrew, against the aortic cusps held down by the aortic column of blood. This view he had held and expressed in 1852, but did not publish till recently. The difterence between it and Dr. Leared's is only that Sir Richard Quain attached some importance to the intervening aortic valves as a factor. In performing the experiments on which in part his conclusions were based, he used an apparatus constructed out of a sheep's heart, in which the right chambers were cut away, the coronary arteries ligatured, and the mitral valves destroyed. A column of water was then made to press upon the aortic valves and the ventricle was also filled with water. When now systole and diastole were imitated by alternate compression and relaxation of the ventricle by the hand, a very good imitation of both sounds could be elicited. He was good enough to ask the writer's assist- ance in the performance of this simple experi- ment, and the latter can add his testimony to Sir Richard Quain's as regards the facts. Taking all these data into consideration, it appears legitimate to conclude, that more than one factor enters into the production of the first sound, and that the chief place is to be assigned to the resistance offered by aortic blood-pressure to the ventricular blood - pressure when the latter is suddenly and forcibly rising above it. If this conclusion be accepted, it follows that the audibility and character of the first sound may, ceteris paribus, afford some evidence of the vigour of ventricular contraction. The Coronary Cimdation.—The nourishment of the mammalian heart by blood is chiefly effected by the coronary arteries, which spring from the aorta behind its two anterior semilunar cusps. The 23ulse in all arteries is systolic in time, and the coronary arteries are no exception to the rule. There is reason, however, to believe that the repletion of the aorta on cardiac diastole also imparts additional impulse to the coronary arterial circulation, while the strong valve in the coronary sinus prevents regurgitation from the right auricle. Sibson {Medical Anatomy, p. 73) observed that both arteries and veins on the surface of the heart became turgid and tor- tuous during systole, and again straight during diastole. This fact appears to indicate that when ventricxdar contraction is at its height, some pressure is exercised upon the smaller arteries and upon the venous outflow from the coronary sinus. The anatomical situation of the coronary vessels in the textiire of the heart is admirably calculated, however, to reduce injuri- otis compression or obstruction to a minimum, as may be seen from the following illustration. Anastomosis between the two coronary arteries has been disputed by some anatomists, but ap- pears to have been proved to exist by Dr. Samuel West {Lancet, June 1883, p. 945) by injected specimens. It is probable, however, that it is not very free, a circumstance for which the original bilaterality of the oi-gan in embryo may in a measure account. The most important and most constantly active organ in the bodv thus receives a constant supply of recently oxygenated blood, a circumstance which, when associated with an otherwise normal constitution of the blood, appears to be a leading factor in the maintenance of a healthy state and normal action of the cardiac muscle. We have now briefly examined the muscularity and vascularity of the heart, and the chief physi- ological questions of practical interest associated with these factors. It remains to examine shortly the third factor in the production of the functional unity of the heart's action. The Cardiac Nervous System.—The nerves of the mammalian heart spring from the trunk of the vagus and from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic chain. The trunk of the vagus, however, is a mixed one, and contains fibres of the spinal accessory nerve which avoid the jugular ganglion on the vagus, and passing through its lower ganglion or " ganglion of the trunk," course to the heart in the vagus. These are said to be of small calibre like all efferent visceral spinal nerves, according to Gaskell {Journal of Physiology, vol. vii.). The sympathetic spinal nerves of the heart are derived from the upper dorsal spinal nerves from the second to the fourth and perhaps the fifth, but cliiefly from the second and third {see Plate, p. 154). The gathering point for these in the thoracic chain is the stellate or first dorsal ganglion, issuing whence they encircle the subclavian artery as the so-called ring of Vieiissens, and thence by way of the lower cervical ganglion pass to the heart. Both vagal and sympathetic branches from either side having reached the organ contribute to the siiperficial and deep cardiac plexuses. Here in all probability an incomplete peripheral decussa- tion occurs, so that the nerves from either side supijly both halves of the heart or both aspects of the unified tube of which the heart consists. This seems to be proved by the fact that uni- lateral section of the nerves does not materially disturb the heart's action, while bilateral section soon proves fatal. Tlie majority of the medul- lated fibres of the vagus lose their medulla in the cardiac plexuses, the majority of the medul- lated fibres of the spinal cardiac nerves in the ganglia of the sympathetic chain which inter- vene between their point of issue from the cord and their exit fi-om the inferior cervical ganglion. For our anatomical knowledge of these import- ant facts w e ai'e lai'gely indebted to Gaskell of Cambridge and his successors in this country and abroad. Kolliker of Win-zbm-g affirms his