INFLAMMATION 422 which modify iiiHammation are so many and their interaction so complex, that a satisfactory classification cannot be given. Various group- ings are, however, in use, such as those depend- ing on the site, the quantity and quality of the exudate, and the reaction of the tissues them- selves. 1. The Site.—Those affecting the surface of an organ or tissue, e.g. the skin and mucous membranes, may be distinguished as supei'ficial, while those affecting deep tissues, e.g. the in- terior of the brain, bones, etc., are called deep- seated. Inflamed tissues near a free surface, e.g. skin or mucous membrane, generally show the degenerative changes chiefly in the super- ficial cell layers, and also an abundant serous exudation (relatively more than into an abscess) which comes to the surface and escapes. It is mixed with cells (epithelial and leucocytes). In glandular organs the inflammation may affect the secreting structures, when it is called par- enchymatous, or the supporting connective tissues, when it is called interstitial. Inflam- mations limited entirely to one or other of these structures are uncommon, but combinations occur frequently. Inflammations of muscular tissue and of the nervous system are similarly distinguished as parenchymatous and interstitial. 2. The Qualities of the Exudate.—(a) The in- flammation is called serous when the exudate is a clear or slightly morbid fluid. It is most often seen in comparatively slight inflammations. (6) It is called purulent when the exudate is turbid or whitish by the plentiful admixture of leucocytes. When it occurs naturally in the human subject it may always be looked upon as caused by bacteria, though artificially, other agents such as turpentine, petroleum, and croton oil may produce it. Suppurations caused by chemicals are not so grave as those caused by bacteria, as they heal more rapidly and do not prodvice blood poisonings or metastases, (c) It is called fibrinous when the exudate under- goes a deposition of fibrin, either as a network, or homogenous, or flaky, or irregular, or granu- lar masses, or as stratified layers. In the lungs it often forms a network, filling the alveoli, and is often spoken of as a croupous inflammation, a term which was originally applied only to the fil)rinous deposit, or false, or croupous membrane, which forms upon the pharynx and larynx in certain severe inflammations, particularly in diphtheria. The term croupous was first of all used to describe the peculiar crowing noise of croup, and thence it came to be used to describe the false membrane which caused it. Its exten- sion to other fibrinous inflaunnations, as in the lung, has nothing to support it, and should be discontinued. In deep-seated inflammations threads of fibrin may be occasionally seen, but its formation is always slight. Large deposits of filirin are characteristic of severe inflamma- tions of serous surfaces, such as the pleura or pericardium. ((/) It is called htemorrhagic when the exudate is mixed with blood, either from a plentiful diapedesis or from an actual rupture of blood-vessels. It sometimes indicates a grave form of inflammation, while at other times it points to some peculiarity of the irritant or of the tissues involved. 3. The Reaction of the Tissues.—The degener- ative, liquefactive, and necrotic, etc., changes which the tissues show, and which are so largely dependent upon the nature and degree of inten- sity of the noxa, may also be used to describe special forms of inflammation. This article does not attempt to give more than an explanation of what is meant when the term inflammation is used, or more than a short account of the various processes involved in its establishment, so as to furnish the busy student and practitioner with a workable and practical view of the subject, unburdened with a discus- sion of the many problems of a more strictly scientific interest with which its every aspect fairly bristles. Inflation of Lungs.—^'ee Asphyxia {Artificial Respiration). Inflation of Tympanum.— -See Ear, Examination of (inflation through Eus- tachian Tube). Influenza. Introductory ..... 423 Bacteriology ..... 423 Historical ...... 423 Etiology 425 Clinical Features .... 427 Types 427 Atypical Forms . . . . .431 Effects on Different Systems . .432 Pathology and Anatomical Appear- ances ...... 436 Diagnosis ...... 437 Treatment 438 ^ee also Angina Pectoris {Etiology, Influenza); Brain, Inflammations {Acute Encephalitis, Eti- ology) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis {Acute Bronchitis, Etiology); Dengue {Diagnosis); Epidemiology {Seasonal Fluctuations); Expectoration {Influ- enza Bacillus); Insanity, Etiology of {Microhic Toxic Action) ; Insanity, Nature and Symp- toms {Index of Etiological Varieties) ; Leuco- cytosis {Leucopenia in Influenza); Lung, Tuber- culosis OF {Predisposing Factors, Influenza); Malaria {Diagnosis); Meninges of the Cere- brum {Acute Simple Meningitis, Etiology) ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Gene- ral Etiology); Nose, Examination of {Char- acter of Secretion, Bacteria in Influenza Rhinitis); Nose, Post-Nasal Adenoid Growths {Etiology); Nose, Post-Nasal Adenoid Growths {Operation for, Sequelae); NosE, Accessory Sinuses, In- flammation OF {Etiology) ; Ophthalmoplegia