HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 143 absent in the ordinary preparations. Of the activities of the crude drug it may be said to possess both the best and the worst—the most potent and most cumulative. This preparation is the granule of M. Nativelle of Paris, contain- ing of a grain (or ^ of a milligramme) of " chemically pure crystallised digitaline." Into the question of the precise nature of this active principle the writer will not enter, but with regard to its activity and its equal distribution in the granules he has had large experience. M. Nativelle makes also a syrup of digitaline, each teaspoonful of which is equivalent to a granule, and contains tt^o grain of " crystallised digitaline." This is a convenient preparation for use, when a smaller dose than ordinary is required, as in the case of children. When the writer first began using the granules of Nativelle, he believed the statement that one granule was equivalent to ten minims of tincture of digitalis, B.P., and therefore that a granule may be administered precisely in the same way as he then was in the habit of administering the tincture, that is to say, three times a " day," equivalent to three doses in twelve hours instead of twenty-four hours, or, one may say, every four hours during the day proper, and none at all during the " night," or remaining twelve hours. The result was almost invariably toxic symptoms, so that for a considerable time he gave up the use of the granules altogether. Evidently the granule consisting of one in- gredient of the crude drug and the official preparations of the latter sliovild be regarded as incomparable, and even of the latter it is a faulty mode of administration to give three doses in the first twelve hours and none at all in the second twelve hours. When it is desired to " push " quickly the action of digitalis, three granules may be given in twenty-four hours, but each must be given after an interval of eight—not four—hours. Usiially, however, one granule in twelve hours is amply sufficient—two a day. Even this number can seldom be con- tinued long with advantage, and usually in a very few days one granule in twenty-four hours suffices. In a few days more the drug may be stopped altogether, or intermitted for forty- eight or seventy-two hours according to circum- stances. The dose must never be increased after the administration has continued for some time, a rule the necessity of which is obvious from the cumulative property of the remedy, and the dose must always be diminished as the course proceeds for the same reason. The quantity of urine passed by the patient forms by far the best guide to the effects of digitalis, and with reference to it we must bear in mind that digitalis is a slow diuretic, requir- ing at least forty-eight or seventy-two hours for the production of polyuria. Thus if a patient, on the day after the one on which digitalis was first administered, gets a profvise diuresis, such diuresis cannot be attributed to the drug; all experience is opposed to such a diuresis being the eff'ect of the drug, in all probability it is " spontaneous " or the eff'ect of rest. But if the diuretic effect of digitalis is never obtained promptly, it is occasionally delayed for a con- siderable number of days. A curious experience is the following: a patient has been taking- digitalis, say for ten days, while there has been no material increase of the urine-flow, and the practitioner, despairing of success, stops the remedy, and orders a drug without diuretic property, say liq. strychnia-, when, to his sur- prise, within seventy-two hours after the last dose of digitalis a profuse diuresis sets in. Such an occurrence is by no means rare, and indicates that the administration of the drug has been pushed too far, its effects being possibly exerted specially on the arterioles, which become too much contracted in the kidneys to permit of a diuresis which is rendered possible only when the vessels have relaxed to some extent under the diminishing influence of the drug. The possible advantage of combining a vaso-dilator with digitalis will be referred to later. When a diuresis is thoroughly established it is well to diminish the dose of digitalis, or to give the same dose less frequently, seeing that its effects thereby will be efficiently maintained, while the risk of them being over-exerted is obviated. The most difficult question is, what to do with regard to continuing the administration in cases in which there has been no response by diiu-esis at all. If in doubt, the rule should be to intermit the drug for at least a couple of days and probably longer. The desirableness of resuming the drug or replacing it will then have to be considered afresh. Strophanthus and other Cardiac Remedies The drug that undoubtedly ranks next after digitalis in the treatment of heart disease is strophanthus, usually prescribed in the form of tincture. From experimental results it would seem to have an advantage over digitalis in some respects, exerting less influence on the peripheral circulation in the direction of con- traction of the arterioles. It is not quite clear, however, that this is an unqualified gain; more- over, we have found that the results of the experimentalist in his laboratory and of the physician in his ward are not entirely in accord with regard to such a decisive question as that having reference to the ultimate effects of digitalis upon the heart: in fact as to whether the heart under the full influence of this drug is found after death in systole or diastole. Of one thing the writer is convinced from his own clinical observations, and it is this : that in the case of patients who are admitted to hospital with low arterial tension, and who ultimately recover a high degree of arterial tension, the diuresis that is the indication of the successful administration