INTESTINES, DISEASES OF 52< the jejunum, the remaining healthy intestine below absorbing the surplus fluid before it reaches the rectum. In children and old per- sons more particularly emaciation may be rapid, and strength quickly lost, especially if the diarrhoea be profuse. Urine is scanty and high- coloured. The temperature is variable, but as a rule is not high. Pulmonary oedema and cardiac failure in severe cases complicate the disease, and occasionally epileptiform convulsions supervene towards the end. In accordance with the cause of the enteritis the symptoms neces- sarily vary. The symptoms of ptomaine-poisoning call for special notice. At a variable interval, an hour or two, or as long as thirty-six houi-s, after eating tinned salmon, high game, etc., the patient complains of a feeling of nausea, rest- lessness, and sickness. This is speedily followed by vomiting and gradually increasing abdominal pain, which soon becomes agonising. Muscular cramps and clonic spasms, especially in the legs, add to the patient's misery, and soon a feeling of intense prostration, accompanied by cold sweats, nervous depression, and cardiac failure, appears. The expression is anxious and even terrified; diarrhoea usually supervenes early, is profuse, watery, often foetid, and sometimes bloody. Intense thirst is nearly always com- plained of, the pulse is quick and small, the urine is scanty, and the temperature varies from 100° to 103°. An urticarial or erythematous rash is not uncommon. If the dose of the poison has been large, and especially if diarrhoea does not early carry off some of the poison, the patient may lapse into a state of unconscious- ness and coma. The pulse becomes quicker and more feeble, and cardiac inhibition becomes gradually more marked before death. The severity of the symptoms varies not only with the amount of the poisonous dose taken or elaborated after ingestion, but different indi- viduals who have partaken of the same meal and in similar quantities are not equally affected. Assuming that the poison is equally distributed in the food, personal idiosyncrasy must enter into the calculation ; but there are many fallacies. The symptoms begin to abate at a variable period of a few hours or days, but in any case convalescence is slow. Epidemic enteritis of children, otherwise called summer diarrhoea, or septic diarrhoea, is characterised by the sudden onset of vomiting and diarrhoea. The stools—at first frequent, offensive, and solid — later consist of watery serum, mixed with flaky mucus. This disease is further characterised, on account of the rapid loss of fluid through diarrhoea and vomiting, by rapid emaciation, intense thirst, and collapse, which may in a single day result in death {vide " Gastro - Intestinal Diseases of Infancy and Cholera Nostras "). Diagnosis.—A history of improper feeding, followed by colic, nausea, diarrhoea, rise of temperature, and quickened pulse, indicates the nature of the case. It is, however, often very diflicult to determine the part of the bowel affected. Catarrh of the duodenum may be accompanied by jaundice, and often is by gastric catarrh; or pain localised in the right hypo- chondriac region may suggest the site. The diagnosis of inflammation of the jejunum from that of the ileum is generally impossible. The distinctive points between inflammation of the small and large intestine are not very definite ; but if the stools are greyish-yellow and not numerous, and are mixed with partially digested food, and if colicky pains are severe, and if the urine shows a burgundy - red colour, on the addition of nitric acid, and this persists after boiling, indicating the presence of indican, the chances are in favour of the small intestine being the site of the lesion. Care should always be exercised in deciding whether any given case of enteritis is primary or secondary; that is to say, whether it is the only and primary lesion, or whether it is but a symptom of another disease {vide infra, " Chronic and Secondary Enteritis "). Prognosis.—Prognosis is as a rule favourable. The majority of cases recover in a few days after the cause has been removed. In the case of ptomaine-poisoning recovery as a rule occurs, though many cases are serious and demand in- vestigation by the local authorities. Epidemic enteritis of children should always be regarded seriously, for it is remarkable that children apparently but slightly ill in the course of a day or two lose ground so rapidly that they die before one has almost time to realise that any serious danger exists. Treatment.—The most important matter in the treatment of all cases of intestinal catarrh is to ascertain its cause and so determine whether the remedy should be directed to the removal of an irritant or to subduing the irrita- bility of the inflamed mucous membrane. Slight cases practically cure themselves ; the diarrhoea being salutary removes the irritant naturally. After this, restriction in diet or abstention from food temporarily, and perhaps a small dose of opium (pulv. ipecac, co. grs. v. in an adult) may be all that is required. If the cause is an irri- tant, such as undigested food, a good treatment is to administer a dose of castor oil with 8 to 15 mms. of tr. of opium, and to follow this by a further dose of opium (pulv. ipecac, co. grs. v., and repeated as necessary) to allay peristalsis and give the intestines rest. Having removed the irritant, if the symptoms still persist on account of resulting inflammation, or liaving determined that the case is one of enteritis not caused by an irritant lying in the bowel, re- course must be had to a combination of seda- tives and astringents. Mist, cretai of the B.P.