322 HYSTERIA ficial (bread pills, rye powders, etc.). Methylene blue in pillules, because of the colour which it gives to the urine, is valuable as a means of suggestion of cure. The external treatment of hysteria in general consists of magnets of metals, electrisation, and hydrotherapy, etc. Metallo- therapy is based on the belief that the patient has a special sensibility for one or more metals, which, when applied to the surface of the skin, may modify the ausesthesia and the contractures. This therapeutic measure has often been advo- cated, but the results derived from it are very disappointing. The electric treatment plays an important and really efficacious part. Static electricity acts like fEsthesiogenic and as a tonic; it can be used in the form of electric baths, or if it is better to localise the electricity, it may be used as an electric blast, or brush, or spark. The electric bath is followed by a feeling of comfort and a disappearance of the anaesthesia and the amyos- thenia. The appetite improves, and the digestion is stronger. The duration of the seances should be from ten to nineteen minutes. Electrical faradisation, with the aid of a brush, acts most favourably on isolated anaesthesia, or when placed over paralysed parts or contractures. In cases where one cannot have recourse to static electricity on account of the want of proper apparatus, generalised faradisation may be used instead with good effect. Galvanic electricity is inferior to faradised electricity in the cure of hysteria. It can, how- ever, be used beneficially in cases of local trophic troubles, muscular atrophy, and oedema. Hydro- therapy is of the greatest value on account of its a3sthesiogenic action. The cold douche is advantageous in battling with anaemia and general debility, as it favours the absorption and elimination of the therapeutic factors. The best mode of administering the douche is to have it poured on the body at a temperature of 8 to 12 degrees for the space of 19 to 20 seconds, taking care not to project the jet of water on the head or the hysterogenous zones. Some- times the cold douche cannot be endured, and in such cases one must have recourse to the Scotch douche, either without transition, that is to say, passing suddenly from a temperature of 35° or 40° to a very low temperature, or, if the patient is very sensitive, with gradual transition. In special cases, wrapping in the wet sheet or patting with wet sheet may be beneficial, but these means should, as a rule, merely lead on to the cold douche. Treatment by mineral waters is not so useful as hydrotherapy ; the most highly recommended waters are Neris, Divonne, Bains, Plombieres, Luxeuil, La Malon, Wildbad, Ragatz, etc. Regimen.—The diet ought to be tonic and abundant, but overloading the stomach has to be avoided. In grave cases certain physicians employ a milk diet, as in the Weir-Mitchell cure of neurasthenia, namely, 100 grammes of milk every two hours, together with complete rest and isolation. Ordinarily one does not need to have recourse to this regime, but it is always best to choose light foods and to eat often, say four meals a day. Medicinal Treatment.—There is no medicinal treatment necessary in ordinary cases of hysteria, the internal medication being purely symptom- atic. To calm the patient alkaline bromides may be given, which are far from being as active as in cases of epilepsy. Injecting morphia should be avoided, as there is a risk of hysterical patients becoming morphinomaniacs. The dif- ferent preparations of valerian (tincture, extract, ammoniated valerian, and preparations of zinc and quinine) have all the great advantage of not being prejudicial. A number of hysterical patients are anaemic, and in their case prepara- tions of iron and arsenic are very valuable. We need do no more than mention the surgical treatment by oophorectomy or hysterectomy. Its success is problematical, and does not com- pensate for its real inconvenience. C. Treatment of the Attacks.—When the attack is very violent the patient must be guarded from injuring himself. There are two ways of com- bating the attack itself. 1. In the first rank among the mechanical aids must be placed the compression of the spasmofrenatric zone, which must be searched for in the ovarian and epigastric regions. In order to touch the zone the hand must be pressed into the iliac fossa, and then having overcome the resistance of the abdominal walls, it will be sufficient to place the two first fingers on the presumed seat of the ovary in order to obtain the desired effect. Pressure of the breasts and nape may also be used with advantage. By gently pressing the eyeballs also the effect of hypnotic sleep may be tried; and electric shocks at intervals may arrest the crisis. 2. As regards medicines, the inhaling of ether and chloroform must be used guardedly. In very bad cases chloroform may be tried. Bromide of ethyl and nitrite of amyl have also been used for the same object. D. Treatment of Particular Accidents.— Anaesthesia of the nerves and senses can be subdued by brush electricity and static elec- tricity. Paralysis, however, presents great re- sistance to the remedies employed, and it is necessary to have recourse to transfer suggestion and massage. In cases of contracture the medical intervention should be rapid, acting upon the hyperaesthetic zone by the aid of static electricity, and on the anaesthetic zone by electric faradisation. Hypnotism rarely succeeds. Move- ment of the contracted limb must be avoided. Any application of apparatus may aggravate the disorder, and there is the risk of permanently disabling the limb, and fixing the contracture psychically. In certain cases after the con-