22 H.^MATOPORPHYRINURIA the great majority of the recorded cases the urinary change has formed one of a group of toxic symptoms following upon the taking of sulphonal for a longer or shorter period. How- ever, of the many patients who nowadays take this hypnotic, only very few ever exhibit such symptoms, and it is a remarkable fact that with few exceptions those who so suffer are women. The few recorded cases in males have been for the most part of a mild character. Patients taking sulphonal do not, under ordi- nary circumstances, excrete unusual amounts of the pigment in question, and those who develop hgematoporphyrinuria have often taken sulphonal nightly, for weeks or months, with impunity. Sometimes the toxic symptoms only make their appearance after the drug has been discontinued, and in one of Hammarsten's cases the interval was as long as nine days. Sometimes, again, they have followed the administration of very few doses. Of the associated symptoms, those most frequently observed are vomiting, constipation or diarrhoea, abdominal pain, and paresis or paralysis of limbs. In severe cases the patients pass into a state of collapse, with cyanosis and coldness of the extremities, and death occurs at an early period. In favourable cases, on the other hand, the attendant symptoms quickly subside, and the urine gradually regains its natural colour. The changes found post-mortem in fatal cases have not been very characteristic. Submucous hsemorrhages have sometimes been present in the stomach and intestines, but are by no means constant. The liver usually shows con- spicuous fatty degeneration, and granular or necrotic changes in the epithelium of the renal glomeruli and tubules bear witness to a toxic nephritis. It appears equally certain that hfeniatopoi'- phyriouria occasionally, but rarely, occurs apart from the administration of sulphonal or allied drugs. In these days of self-medication it is not always easy to exclude their use in a given case, but there are examples on record in which this could be definitely excluded, and some of these occurred before the introduction of sulphonal. As a rule these cases have run a favourable course, but in two recorded by Ranking and Pardiiigton, one of which proved fatal, other symptoms were present similar to those observed in sulphonal cases. Neusser met with hajmatoporphyrinuria in association with phthisis piilmonalis in one case, and with pleurisy with effusion in another; MacMunn in a case of exophthalmic goitre; MacCall Anderson saw repeated attacks in association with recurrences of hydroa aestivalis. Nebelthau has recorded its occurrence in a case of congenital syphilis, and Sobernheim in the case of a boy admitted to hospital as suffering from typhoid fever. The only case of this kind which I have had the opportunity of watching was that of a woman admitted to hospital for hsematemesis, and who was under the care of Dr. Calvert. Although no evidence of the taking of sulphonal could be elicited by careful inquiry, the characters of the urine were very similar to those met with in the sulphonal cases, the dark colour being mainly due to abnormal pigments other than hfEmatopoi-phyrin. In cases of hBematoporphyrinuria the colour of the urine usually resembles that of tawny port-wine, but it may be so dark as to approach to black. As a rule it is free from albumin, but by the aid of the centrifuge a few tube-casts may usually be detected. The reaction is usually acid, often strongly so, and the urine may usually be kept for a long time without decomposition. In some sulphonal specimens, which Hopkins and I examined, there was no increased excretion of iron. Direct spectroscopic examination does not usually yield such satisfactory results as might be expected considering the amount of hjemato- porphyrin present. The other abnormal pig- ments cause much general absorption of the blue end of the spectrum, and often greatly interfere with the view of the absorption bands. However, the narrow band in red of alkaline hajmatoporphyrin can usually be made out (Fig. 2). Frequently the bulk and sometimes the whole of the hcEniatoporphyrin present is in the form in which it shows what is known as the " metallic " spectrum (Fig. 3), consisting of two dark bands resembling those of oxyhemoglobin, and this introduces a further difficulty in its detection by direct spectroscopic examination. The addition of hydrochloric acid causes the acid spectrum (Fig. 1) to appear, but this spectrum is never seen, even with strongly acid urine, until a mineral acid is added. More satisfactory results are usually obtained by extraction with acetic ether after the addition of acetic acid. By this means a solution of haematoporphyrin is obtained com- paratively free from the associated pigments, but occasionally it refuses to be taken up even by this solvent. The method of precipitation of the pigment with the earthy phosphates, by adding a 10 per cent solution of sodium hydrate (20 c.c. for each 100 c.c. of urine), and extraction from the washed precipitate witii acid alcohol, although it serves admirably for the detection of hajmatoporphyrin in normal and ordinary morbid urines, does not usually give good results in these cases. Salkowski's method of precipitation with equal volumes of 10 per cent solution of barium chloride and baryta water is certain in its action, but has the disadvantage that the acid alcoholic extract obtained from the precipitate contains the other abnormal pig-