INFLUENZA 440 tion which appUes also to acetaniUde (the so- called " antifebrin"), though to a less extent. A favourite and efficacious method of administer- ing acetanilide is in the form of " antikamnia " tablets, which are found to contain about 70 per cent of that drug together with about 10 per cent of cafFein and 20 per cent of sodium bicarbonate. If the tormenting and sometimes excruciat- ing pains of influenza are once relieved by one or other of the foregoing remedies, temperature is likely to fall, and the patient may be soothed to sleep. But a solemn warning is needed against any undue interference with the fever of influenza or any other febrile disease. The nature of the fever process is now far better understood than it was even a few years ago, and we have learned that "fever," or elevation of bodily temperature above the standard of health or "normal," serves a useful purpose, provided that it is properly controlled. There is, in fact, ;what the Germans aptly call "das Heil-Fieber"—"the fever which brings back health." At the close of an able address on " Antipyresis" before the Tenth International Medical Congress at Berlin, in 1890, Professor Arnaldo Cantani of Naples used the memorable words—" Das Fieber, das in so vielen Krank- heiten der beste Verbtindete des Arztes ist"— " the fever, which in so many diseases is the best ally of the physician." Fever, in a word, purges the system. Therefore, high tempera- ture should not be unduly meddled with, parti- cularly in influenza, when it so quickly spends itself, as a rule. The dieting of the influenza patient will often test the physician's skill and tact far more severely than the mere prescribing of medicine. Of this disease it is especially true that there are no two patients whom precisely the same dietary will suit. We might say : Quot homines, tot epulce. Of course the dietetic rules which apply to any febrile disease apply equally to influenza. Slops at first, solids later on in a gradually ascending scale, from lightly boiled fresh eggs to chicken, sweetbreads, lamb's fry, trotters, tripe and cow-heel, fish, roast joints, etc. But there are cases in which even the lightest foods are spurned with loathing. Then water—cold or hot—may be sipped, or " egg water" (the eau alhurimieuse of the French) may be given. This excellent " dish " is prepared by blending with a pint of cold water the whipped-up whites of from two to four eggs, and flavouring with salt or cinnamon. White wine whey may be given with equal parts of unflavoured egg-water, if a stimulant for a very delicate stomach is desired. A more substantial meal is egg-flip. The lightest form of this is made by pumping soda-water from a siphon on to the whipped-up yolk of an egg. Then the animal broths may be given, always remembering that an almost infinite variety of flavour may be obtained by mixing different broths together—for example, chicken-broth and beef-tea in equal parts. In a word, in attempting to draw up a bill of fare for a fastidious influenza patient,^ we should always remember that " what is one man's food is another man's poison." Dr. T. King- Chambers, in his excellent Manual of Diet in Health and Disease (published in 1875), re- minds us that when the tailor in Laputa sternly refused to take the usual measiirements, and insisted on constructing Captain Gulliver's coat, waistcoat, and breeches on abstract principles, the customer vowed it was the worst suit of clothes he ever had in his life. Dr. Chambers adds: "We should certainly fail in the same way if we did not take the measure of number- less contingencies in the daily life, and number- less peculiarities in the persons of those who consult us about their diet and regimen." Always true, these words apply with special propriety to the dietetic treatment of influenza. Infra.-*—in compound words infra- means below, e.g. iifraclamc^dar (below the clavicle), infracostal (below a rib), inframaxillary (relating to the lower jaw), infrascapular (below the scapula), etc. Infundibulum.—A funnel-shaped pas- sage or depression. See Physiology, Eespira- TiON {Respiratory MecJianism, Infundibular Passages of Lung); Fallopian Tubes {Anatomy, Ostium Abdominale). Infusa.. See Prescribing. Infusion, Saline,—A solution of common salt in distilled water (1 drachm to the pint), used for injection into the subcutaneous tissue, a vein, or the rectvun in cases of hjemor- rhage, eclampsia, sepsis, etc. See Labour, PosT-PARTUM H/EMORrhage {Post-ho^morrhagic Collapse); Shock. Infusoria. See Parasites {Protozoa, Infusoria). Ing'iuvin.—A digestive preparation ob- tained from the crop of the chicken; fowls' pepsin ; used in intractable vomiting and digestive disorders. Ingrravescent Apoplexy. — That form of apoplexy in which the loss of conscious- ness docs not occur suddenly, but is gradually and steadily developed. See Hemiplegia {Con- dition at Onset). Ingrowing: Nail. See Nails, Affec- tions OF {Unguis incarnatus). lng['Uinal. — Relating to the inguen or groin, e.g. inguinal artery, inguinal canal, in- guinodynia (pain in the groin), inguinal hernia (.see Hkhnia), inguinal hydrocele, etc. ' See " Invalid Feeding."