379 INDECENT ASSAULT Indecent Assault. See Medicine, Forensic {Rape). Index. (See Anthropometry ; Ethnology. India.. See Balneology (India). Indian Drug^S. — in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia of 1898 a good many drugs growing in and used in India are described, e.g. Indian Chiretta {Andrographis), Indian Orange Peel {Aurantii Cortex Indicus), Indian Gamboge (Camhogia Indica), Indian Gum (Gummi Indicum), Indian Oil of Verbena {Oleum Graminis Citrati), Indian Podophyllum, Indian Squill {Urginea), and Indian Valerian. Indiarubber. *S'ee Caoutchouc ; Trades, Dangerous {Bisulphide of Carbon Poisoning). Indican.—Indoxyl-sulphate of potassium (CgHgNSO^K), derived from indoxyl (CgH.NO), which in its turn is got by oxidation from indol (CgHn-N). See Physiology, Excretion {Urine, Sulphur - containing Bodies); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Colour); Adrenal Bodies, Addison's Disease (Symptoms, Urine). Indicanuria. *S'ee Urine, Pathological Changes in (Aromatic Substances, Indicanuria); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Ulcer of Stomach, Special Symptomatology, Urine). I n d i es, West. See Therapeutics, Health Eesorts (Climates for the Aged, West Indies). Indigrestion. Definition 379 Classification 379 Etiology . . . . . .381 Symptoms . . . . . .381 Special Forms 383 Treatment ...... 385 Of Special Forms . . . .387 See also Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Etiological Varieties); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of (Indigestion from swallowing Secretions); Rickets (Etiology); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (General Etiology, Infective Diseases); Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases of (General Symptom- atology, Indigestion). The term indigestion serves as a cloak to cover a multitude of dyspeptic disorders, some of which come throughout their entire course under the name, others only so long as clear evidence of the presence of a distinct morbid lesion is wanting, constituting the primary cause, and worthy of consideration in the light of an individual entity. Indigestion, in truth, applies simply to symptoms of digestive unrest of objective or subjective character, denoting presence of a morbid condition of the tissues and cells in some part of the alimentary system itself, or in other systems of the body, and reflexly influencing digestive organs and processes through the mediation of the nervous system or the circulation. Thus patients suffering from symptoms common to early stages of gastric ulcer, cancer of the stomach, or dilatation of that organ, from the results that neurasthenia often occasions upon the processes of peptic digestion, those of a gouty habit may give rise to, or that may spring from changes in the composition of the blood and alterations in its supply, are as truly the victims of indigestion as those affected by simple gastric catarrh. Unlike the majority of diseased types indigestion cannot, therefore, be associated with any one principal causal agent. Nor can the individual symptoms even be considered as indicative of one or other separate pathological condition. Functional faults and organic error are so closely and intricately connected in result, and so surely exercise some influence on each other, that where the one is the other generally exists also. Classification I. Acute. A. From Organic Lesions. 1. Acute Gastritis. 2. Gastric Ulcer (occasionally). 3. Gastric Cancer „ B. Through Nervous Influences. 1. Cerebral. 2. Spinal Gastric Crises. 3. Peripheral. C. Toxsemic. 1. Autogenetic. (a) Uraemia, Cholsemia. (b) Auto-toxeemia. 2. Heterogenetic. (a) Alcohol. (b) Chemical Drugs. II. Subacute and Chronic. A. From Organic Lesions. 1. Simple or Chronic Gastritis. 2. Gastric Ulcer (occasionally). 3. Gastric Cancer. 4. Dilatation of Stomach from Pyloric Stenosis. 5. Gastric Cirrhosis. 6. Tubercle. 7. Syphilis. 8. Venous Congestion. B. Functional. (I.) Of Local Origin. 1. Secretory. (a) Acid. (1) Hyperchlorhydria. (2) Gastroxynsis. (3) Hypochlorhydria. (b) Ferment. (1) Hypopepsia. (2) Apepsia.