HYPNOTISM 296 and successful cases of every known form have been reported. These are so numerous that it is impossible here to give even a precis of them. (See also "Hysteria, Treatment of," p. 321.) IV. Mental troubles of a hysterical nature. Perversion of sentiment, obsessions, irresistible impulses, hallucinations, melancholia, etc. Perversions of sentiment are of common occurrence in hysterical patients, and are generally associated with insomnia, depression, uncontrollable weeping, etc. The changes in sentiment vary from indifference or dislike for those formerly loved, up to a more or less intense hatred, sometimes associated with im- pulses to injure the person disliked. Once hypnosis is induced, such cases generally quickly recover. Hypnotic treatment often gives good results in cases of obsession. The following are some amongst the varieties which have come under my notice:—Involuntary contraction of the bladder, arising solely from a fixed idea as to urination, and independently of distension and other physical causes; dread of cancer, followed by delusion as to its presence; fear of insanity, associated with insomnia and melancholia; ex- cessive blushing, with fixed idea of being con- stantly noticed and adversely criticised; fixed idea of being haunted, with delusions as to visits from the spirit of a deceased enemy; fixed idea as to the possibilities of having injured others accidentally, with constant folic du cloute and clelire clu toucher, together with suicidal impulses and more than one attempt at suicide ; fixed ideas as to business incompetence, with resultant withdrawal from society ; morbid fears as to death, accident, loss of employment, associated with agoraphobia, delusions, hal- lucinations, and suicidal impulses ; dread of thunderstorms; claustrophobia; dread of travelling by rail or carriage ; fixed idea that something dreadful would happen to the Almighty if anything were done by the patient contrary to various forms of popular supersti- tion ; fear of catching syphilis, with folie du doute and delire du toucher associated with con- stant washing of the hands and cleaning, or destruction, of personal efiects; impulse to touch certain objects, with dread of some fear- ful catastrophe if this were omitted; fixed idea of sexual incapacity, associated with consequent impotence. All the cases just referred to re- covered, while some of them have passed ten years without relapse. The mental condition in the above cases varied widely. In many instances the patients fully recognised that the fears or ideas which tor- mented them were absurd and groundless. In others the morliid ideas were more or less com- pletely assimilated, the fears had become delusions, and were often associated with hallu- cinations. Successful cases of obsession are also reported by Schrenck - Notzing, Hecker, Wetterstrand, van Eeden, de Jong, van Eenterghem, Bern- heim, Delboeuf, Gorodichze, Russell Sturgis, Voisin, Burot, Mavrokakis, Bourdon, etc. Vicious and Degenerate Children.—At the International Congress of Hypnotism, Paris, 1889, the therapeutic value of suggestion in the following diseases of children was generally recognised: Incontinence of urine and fseces, nervous "tics," nocturnal terrors, chorea, onan- ism, blepharospasm, and many other disturbances of the nervous system of a functional character. Further, that suggestion was an excellent aux- iliary in the education of vicious and degenerate children, especially where there were habits of lying, cruelty, theft, inveterate idleness, cowardice, or imbecility. I have seen several children—who undoubtedly suffered from moral insanity — recover under hypnotic treatment, and some of them (after the lapse of many years) show no symptoms of the original disease. Some were dirty, insolent, violent in temper, and addicted to self-abuse and purposeless theft, and, in addition, suffered from nocturnal terrors, insomnia, and various " tics." According to Berillon, hypnotism is not only useful in moral perversity, but also forms the best method of treating various nervous tricks. He draws special attention to the frequency of nail-biting in children, and to the fact that it is often associated with other marks of degeneracy. Such conditions can be successfully treated by suggestion; and I have seen instances of nail- biting, even when the habit has been long estab- lished, that have disappeared after a single hypnotic seance. Liebeault records 77 cases of enuresis noctur- nalis, 45 being boys and 32 girls. The youngest was three, the oldest eighteen years of age, the average being about seven. In all, with the ex- ception of 9, the malady dated from birth. Of these, 56 recovered, 9 were improved, while in 12 there was no alteration. In my own practice, the results, though not so striking as those of Liebeault, have been eminently satisfactory. Neurasthenia.—Schrenck-Notzing has pub- lished a more or less detailed account of 228 cases of neurasthenia treated by hypnotism, and the following, amongst others, report successful cases, Briigelmann, Berillon, Bourdon, Voisin, Burckhardt, Forel, Ringier, Ritzmann, Bourru, Burot, Stadelmann, von Corval, Michael, Droz- doivski, von Kozuchowski, Neilson, Bernheim, van Renterghem, Wetterstrand. According to Schrenck-Notzing, the sexual perversions so often associated with neurasthenia, even when these have changed the entire person- ality, are frequently cured by suggestion. Insanity.—According to the late Dr. Auguste Voisin, of the Salpetriere, no one believed it was possible to hypnotise the insane until 1880, when he first succeeded in a case of acute mania. From