HERNIA 201 features. A distension of the ilio-psoas bursa may form a swelling resembling very closely in contour and foel, but differing in position from, a hernial protrusion. Psoas abscess appears outside the femoral vessels. There is an impulse on coughing, and fluctuation between the iliac and femoral portions can generally be elicited. Hypertrophy of the subperitoneal fat may result in the presence of a tumour in the crural canal and at the saphenous opening; the down growth of this mass may drag into the canal a small protrusion of peritoneimi. The condition is physically identical with an irreducible femoral hernia, but the history generally shows that the tumour has been very slow in growth and, from the earliest beginnings, irreducible. The following rare varieties of femoral hernia have been described :— 1. Cloquet's Hernia (pectineal hernia), where the hernia lies beneath the j^ectineal fascia, on the pectineus muscle. 2. Laugier^s Hernia, where the sac is pro- truded through an aperture in Gimbernat's ligament. 3. HesselbacNs Hernia, where a series of diverticula are sent off from the sac through the openings in the cribriform fascia. This form was described in 1814 by F. C. Hesselbach. 4. Cooper's Hernia, where a series of diverti- <;ida are sent ofi" from the sac through openings in the superficial fascia. 5. External Femoral Hernia, where the sac descends between the femoral artery and the a,nterior superior spine. This form was first •described by A. K. Hesselbach in 1829, but is often incorrectly described as Partridge's hernia. Cruro-properitoneal Hernia is decidedly rare. The additional sac passes inwards towai'ds the pelvis. Cases of "reduction in mass" have been recorded by Farabccuf and others. Umbilical Hernia Umbilical Hernia is of three varieties— 1. Congenital Hernia. 2. The Hernia of Infants. 3. The Hernia of Adults. 1. Congenital Hernia.—At the beginning of the third month of intra-uterine life the viscera becomes enclosed in the abdominal cavity by the growth of the visceral plates. If this growth is defective, the visceral enclosure is more or less incomplete and a " hernia " results. The term "hernia," as Malgaigne suggests, is inappropri- <xte, "for we are not concerned with viscera ■escaped from a cavity, but with viscera which have never entered it." Three classes of this hernia are described— {a) Where the gap at the imibilicus is small; hernia of the root of the cord. (l)) Where the gap is moderate in size ; saccu- lated hernia. (c) Where the abdominal wall is grossly in- complete (eventration); the viscera having a thin covering derived from the amnion. In group (a) the pressure of a pad and bandage will generally effect a cure. In group (Ij) operation is necessary. The cases in group ((•) are of merely pathological interest. 2. The Umbilical Hernia of Infants. — This j form arises after closure of the abdominal wall, and is due to a yielding of the umbilical cicatrix. It is very frequent in both sexes, appears some weeks or months after birth, and is probably due to intestinal disorder. Almost without i exception the cases are spontaneously cured. It is only necessary to apply a large firm pad I and bandage to prevent protrusion of the hernia \ when the infant cries or strains. 3. lite Umbilical Hernia of Adults. — This form of hernia develops comparatively late in life, and is not concerned with the variety' just described. It is exceedingly rare for an infantile luiibilical hernia to remain until adult age. If the anterior abdominal wall be examined from behind, and the peritoneum be removed, a local thickening of the transversalis fascia in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus will be observed. Interlacing bundles of horizontal fibres form here a distinct layer known as the " fascia umbilicalis " or the " fascia of Richet." The extent of this fascia and its strength vary within considerable limits. Sachs, who has investigated this matter with conspicuous ability, describes three varieties as occurring :— (1) A dense fascia most strongly developed behind the umbilicus, and thinning off above and below. j (2) A fascia of similar character so far as the [ upper portion is concerned, but with a sharply- defined concave margin below. The level of this margin may be lower than, or oj^posite to, the umbilicus. (3) A thinner fascia situated entirely above the inubilicus. Between the fascia of Richet and tlie linea alba is a passage, the "canal of RicJict," which contains fat, the ligamentum teres and four or five small para-umbilical veins. The entrance to the canal is directed upwards. In the second and third varieties of the fascia it is occasionally noticed that small peritoneal diverticula are present at the lower sharph^- defined concave margin. These pouches may be (juite inconspicuous, or they ma}' pass out- wards through the umbilicus. Malgaigne and i others have looked upon these diverticula as j congenital in origin, but accoi'ding to Sach:<, whose observations I have verified, they are never seen before the second month of extra- uterine life. When present they may be con- sidered as predisposing to the onset of hernia. The lower portion of the umbilical scar has I been shown by Herzog to be denser and stronger 1 than the upper. The umbilical arteries are said