224 HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF sion are somewhat more marked than in the dorsal form. Method of reducing a Backward Dislocation of the Hip.—Reduction is brought about by mani- pulation, which should be undertaken immedi- ately ; but if the patient be not seen until some time after the accident, it is better to defer all manipulation until an anesthetic can be given, and the attempt made under the most favour- able conditions of assistance and position. The patient lies flat on his back upon a mattress placed on the floor, whilst the surgeon kneels beside him and grasps the leg just above the ankle with one hand, whilst he places his hand, or, if the thigh be heavy, hooks his elbow below the ham of the injured limb. He then flexes the leg \ipon the thigh to relax the ham- string muscles, and the thigh upon the pelvis to relax the Y-ligament or other portion of untorn capsule, and to bring the head of the fennir below the acetabulum. This position of flexion with slight adduction is to be maintained for a few seconds, care being taken not to flex the thigh too much lest the head of the bone pass too far forwards; the thigh is then fully ab- ducted, rotated outwards to its utmost extent, and brought down to the couch in an extended position. The movement of abduction brings the head of the femur from below and behind the acetabulum to the rent in the capsule, the external rotation still further raises the head and causes it to pass through the rent, whilst the extension replaces it at the bottom of the acetabulum. If reduction does not take place the head of the bone will pass inwards and the dorsal dis- location will be converted into a thyroid or subspinous displacement. The surgeon need not be discouraged, but he should repeat the manipulation, and at the same time he should cautiously increase the amount of adduction and inversion, whilst he diminishes the amount of flexion. He must never allow his efforts to become violent lest he fracture the femur, and he shoiild remember that each repetition of the manipulation is likely to lead to further tearing of the soft tissues around the joint. When the rent in the capsule is small, as is shown by the restricted movements of which the limb is capable, circumduction will sometimes restore the head of the bone to its socket, for the capsule is then so short that the movement compels the head to hug the rim of the aceta- bulum until it re-enters the cavity. The cir- cumduction is eff'ected by sweeping the leg and thigh round in a wide circle, the patella being always kept to the front, for the articular surface of the head looks nearly in the same direction as the internal condyle of the femur. This method of manipulation, however, is open to two serious objections. It happens some- times, after an apparently successful reduction of a dorsal dislocation by free circumduction, that the knee remains bent whilst the thigh continues flexed on the pelvis and is abducted and rotated outwards. This want of freedom is due to the fact that the sciatic nerve is stretched over the front of the neck of the femur, lying first beneath the inner portion of the capsule and the tendon of the psoas, and then descend- ing through the rent in the muscular wall of the thigh to the adductor magnus. A second objection to the method of reduction by circum- duction is that a part of the capsule may become folded over the head of the bone and may thus prevent reduction. In the thyroid or obturator dislocation (Fig. 3, 2) the injured thigh is longer than the other, though too much reliance must not be placed upon this sign; it is abducted and flexed. The hip is flattened and the great trochanter is less prominent than normal. The toes point forwards. When the head of the bone lies in the perineum there is marked flexion and abduction of the thigh. Reduction is accomplished by placing the patient supine as before. The surgeon then flexes the leg on the thigh, the thigh on the abdomen, adducts, inverts, and brings the thigh downwards in extension. This form is usually easier to reduce than the dorsal displacement. In the pubic dislocation (Fig. 3, 4) the hip is flattened and the great trochanter lies above Nelaton's line and nearer to the symphysis pubis than is natural. The thigh is shortened, abducted, rotated outwards, and slightly flexed. The femoral artery is displaced inwards and the head of the bone can be felt in its new position. This form of displacement is sometimes attended by great pain in the course of the anterior crural nerve. Reduction is brought about in the same manner as in the obturator variety by flexing the leg on the thigh, the thigh on the abdomen, then adduct, invert, and bring down in full extension.! The after-treatment of a reduced dislocation consists in keeping the patient in bed for a fortnight, the injured limb being placed between 1 Mr. Sturrock has recentlj' {The British Medical Jour- iud, 1. 1900, p. 845) reduced two regular dislocations of the hip by the following manipulation : The patient being anaesthetised and laid \ipon his back on the floor, the surgeon kneels upon his left knee when the left hip is dislocated, and on tlie left side of the patient. The patient's thigh is then carefully flexed to a right angle, and. while this is being done the leg i-: also flexed to a right angle and laid with the most prominent part of the calf on the right kr.ee of the surgeon. The ankle is then finnly grasped with the left hand and the condyles of the femur with the right. The thigh is then abducted for thyroid dislocations, adducted for dorsal and pubic, and rotated inwards for all varieties, by drawing the foot away from the middle line and keeping the knee steady. Traction is now made by steadily depressing the ankle, the surgeon using his knee as the I'ulcruin : the patient's leg makes a most powerful lever. The thigh is then rotated outward.s, and, while this is being done, the head of the femur slips into the acetabulum.