197 HERNIA closed processus vaginalis a congenital hernia had formed. (d) Encysted Hernia.—I described in my " Arris and Gale " Lectures three forms of en- cysted hernia— a. Encysted hernia with the testis lying at the bottom of the sac. Encysted hernia with the testis lying at the apex of the hernia. •y. Encysted hernia of the funicular process. a. This form depends upon the closure of the vaginal process only at the internal abdom- inal ring. A hernia now develops, the sac being formed from the parietal peritoneum, process of peritoneum accompanying the round ligament in the female remain unclosed, it forms the " canal of Nuck." A hernia into this process corresponds to a congenital hernia in the male. III. A Properitoneal Hernia fulfils the fol- lowing conditions— i. The hernial sac has two loculi. ii. The inner loculus lies between the peri- toneum and the fascia transversalis. iii. The outer loculus lies in the inguinal (or crural) canal, or in rare cases between the layers of the abdominal wall. iv. Both loculi open into the abdomen by a single orifice, the " ostium abdominale." Figs. S, 0, 10.—Encysted hernia. and as it descends reaches the upper end of the large tunica vaginalis. This it dimples and then, in its steady increase, invaginates until the hernial sac hangs pendent from the internal abdominal ring, in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. [i. This form is similar to a, except that it is associated with retention of the testis in the inguinal canal. The hernial sac in its descent meets with the testis, which it carries before it and invaginates into the tiuiica vaginalis. y. This form is the same as a, except that the tunica vaginalis is shut off and the hernia is encysted in the funicular process. (e) Hernia with retention of the testis is not unusual. The testis as a rule is retained in the inguinal canal or at the external abdominal ring. The inguinal valve is prevented from acting, and the descent of a hernia is thereby invited. The testis is generally small and soft, almost always atrophied, and is at times ex- ceedingly sensitive. Cases of hernia with re- tention of the testis may be treated by the application of a truss, the testis being disre- garded, but are more satisfactorily dealt with by castration and the perforniiince of a radical cure. (/) Hernia into the canal of Nnch.—If the The inner loculus may occupy one of three positions— 1. It may pass upwards and outwards to- wards the anterior superior spine. 2. It may pass directly backwards and occupy the inner part of the iliac fossa. 3. It may pass downwards and inwards into the true pelvis and lie by the side of the bladder. The right side is more commonly affected than the left. So far as causation is concerned little is accurately known. The evidence may be thus summed up. The hernia arises most frequently as the result of some congenital abnormality in the inguinal region — as an added factor there may be a loosening (con- genital in origin, Linhart) of the parietal peri- toneum. In some cases a more or less complete " reduction in mass" may be the responsible factor. In a few cases the inner sac may be first formed, and the inguinal sac be a secondary diverticulum. (For further details see the report of my lectures. Lancet, Feb. 24, 1900.) The peritoneal conditions are similar to those found in " bilocular hydrocele." IV. An Interstitial Hernia fulfils the follow- ing conditions— 1. The hernial sac has two loculi. 2. The inner, upper loculus lies (a) between