118 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM When the auscultatory sign, to be described later as the bruit de galop, is present, it is not very rare to feel over the apex a double shock during the cardiac diastole ; if palpation precedes auscultation, it may be predicted in a case of the kind that the bruit de galop will be heard {vide "On a Rare Combination of Physical Signs," Practitioner, September 1896). As a very rare occurrence in cases in which the pericardium is, internally and externally, universally adherent, there is no apex-beat proper, but in place of it there is during systole a general depression, including the region of the cardiac apex, followed by an impulse during diastole—apparently the result of the rebound of the relaxing and expanding heart. It is all- important to remember that there is no apex- beat present in the case referred to, so that this rai-e condition may not be confounded with the common inspection - sign of systolic recession above the apex-beat, that means only exposure of the heart, whether from cardiac enlargement or lung retraction. To the observer with tactus eruditus, examina- tion of the apex-beat by the hand is fraught with useful information in most cardiac cases. Apart from any accompanying thrill (to be con- sidered later) its sharp, short stroke in mitral stenosis is most suggestive of this lesion, while in the hypertrophied heart of chronic Bright's disease the displaced, deliberate, slow heave is no less so. Epigastric Imjyulse.—The impulse of the right ventricle is of an altogether different kind from that of the left ventricle, which is the apex- beat. It is a diffuse impulse, felt below the xiphoid cartilage, and appeals in most cases to inspection rather than palpation. Only in cases of great hypertrophy of the right ventricle does it become in any sense strong and " heaving," and in the latter case it is easily perceptible over the lower part of the sternum itself. In cases in which the right chambers of the heart are greatly hypertrophied and dilated, moreover, there is not infrequently expansile pulsation of the liver, so that thei-e is apt to be much con- fusion of the latter pulsation with that of the right ventricle itself. The very rhythm of the impulse of the right ventricle has been and is still in dispute—some contending that it is diastolic and due to the inrush of blood. It is to be noted in this relation that the impulses of the two ventricles are seldom both pronounced at the same time. Again, in cases of great en- largement and hypertrophy of the left ventricle, with little or no implication of the right chambers, an abnormal impulse of the left ventricle may be perceptible in the epigastrium, and is then very liable to be taken for the im- pulse of the right ventricle. This happens specially in cases of aortic incompetence. The impulse of the infundibulum of the right ventricle and that of the right auricle come under consideration as inspection- rather than palpation-signs, though they may be perceptible by means of the latter method. They have already been considered under inspection. The shock resulting from the closure of the pjulmonary semilunar valves is often pet'ceptible on jjaljMtion in tlie apjpropriate area—the sternal end of third left cartilage—situated directly over the valves which lie very superficially. In cases of dilated aorta a similar impulse may be perceptible in the aortic area, which, however, be it remembered, is not situated over the valves, but at a distance from them, so that the perception of such an aortic impulse is much less common. Thrills which are perceptible by means of palpation are usually represented in ausculta- tion by corresponding murmurs, with which in rhythm and other respects they correspond. Thus in cases of mitral stenosis there may be presystolic and diastolic thrills at the apex, which can sometimes more easily be separated by palpation than the corresponding murmurs by auscultation: the crescendo character and abrupt termination with the apex-beat of the presystolic, and the diminuendo character of the diastolic murmur, are easily recognisable by both methods, but a pause between the two is sometimes perceptible by palpation, that is absent in the case of auscultation. Evidently the later vibrations of the diastolic murmur in this case are imperceptible in palpation, as one can readily understand them to be. Diastolic thrill may be present at the apex in cases of free aortic regurgitation, when the history of the case and the usual vascular indications of the lesion will commonly save the observer from error with regard to the origin of the thrill. In excessively rare cases of simple cardiac dila- tation, without aortic incompetence or mitral stenosis, a diastolic thrill has been felt, as a diastolic murmur has been heard (vide Practi- tioner, vol. Hi. p. 254, 1894). Systolic thrill in the aortic region is common in cases of aortic stenosis. In the aortic region the systolic murmur that is commonly associated with dilatation of the arch may be accompanied by a similar thrill which the abnormal approxi- mation of the vessel to the sui'face makes easily perceptible. Occasionally a systolic thrill is present at the apex in cases of mitral stenosis accompanied by corresponding systolic murmur, which is usually at the time the only murmur present. Possibly, an apex systolic thrill may be felt in any case of mitral regurgitation witli very loud murmur. Percussion.—In the course of a systematic physical examination of the heart, it will often happen that inspection and palpation have furnished abundant evidence of the organ being enlarged before percussion is reached. But in not a few cases the estimation of the size of the heart must be essentially based on the percussion