INFANTICIDE 410 Infcinticicle. See Medicine, Forensic (^Infanticide). Infantilism. — The persistence of the characters of childhood after the period of adolescence is reached, the individual so affected being a child physically and usually mentally also. See Cretinism. InfcLfCtion.—The necrosed area produced by the blocking of the vessel which has supplied it with blood. See Embolism ; Heart, Affec- tions OF Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Gardiac Disease, Tliromhosis, Emholism, and Infarction); Liver, Diseases of {Hepatic In- farcts); Lungs, Gangrene OF (^fe'o/or;^); Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Pulmonary Embolism); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Vascular Disturb- ances) ; Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord {Patholoqical Infarction). Infection. Definition . . . . .410 Sources of ..... . 410 Incubation . . . . . .410 Predisposition . . . . .411 Coexistence of Infectious Diseases . 412 Prophylaxis 412 See also Alopecia {Premature Alopecia, Etio- logy., Infective Fevers) ; Aseptic Treatment of Wounds (Wound Infection); Athetosis {Etiology, Infectious Diseases) ; Breath {Infection by); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Acute Bronchitis, Etio- logy, Infective Causes); Disinfection ; Hysteria {Etiology, Infection); Immunity; Leucocytosis; Micro - Organisms ; Mumps; Myiasis; Pre- gnancy, Intra - UTERINE Diseases {Infectious Fevers); Respiration {Bacteriological Aspects); Skin, Bacteriology of ; Tonsils, Diseases of {General Cojisiderations). By "infection" is understood the introduction into the body of a pathogenic micro-organism which is capable of multiplying within it. Dis- eases, therefore, which depend on such an in- fection are called "infective" or "infectious" diseases. For a long time it was the custom to draw distinctions between infection and con- tagion, but, broadly speaking, the process is the same in every case, and all so-called contagious diseases are certainly infectious in the modern sense of the term. It is true, of course, that certain infections are only contracted by direct contact, as for instance syphilis, rabies, and gonorrhoea. But others, such as anthrax and small-pox, can be contracted not only by direct contact, but also through the intermediary of the air, and are thus, to use the old terms, both contagious and infectious. It is more conven- ient, therefore, to class all diseases which depend on the entrance of a living organism into the body as "infectious." The living organisms which cause these dis- eases are nearly all vegetable in their nature, and are of the class " fungi." The vast majority of them are bacteria. But besides these vege- table organisms certain protozoa may give rise to infectious diseases, the most notable instance being the spirillum of relapsing fever. This is not the place to discuss or open up the whole question of bacteriology. It is sufficient to note that bacteria are divided into two main groups, that of (a) parasites, which can exist and thrive in living animal tissues, and that of {b) sapro- phytes, which can live outside living animal tissues, on dead animal or vegetable matter, or on inorganic substances. The first group, again, may be subdivided into those germs which can- not exist outside living animal tissue, "obliga- tory parasites," and those which can do so for a longer or shorter period, " facultative sapro- phytes." And the same subdivision may be made of the second group into " obligatory saprophytes" and "facultative parasites." Each micro-organism, whether it be a bacillus or some variety of coccus, has the power when growing on the living tissues or in suitable media of manufacturing a toxine which is peculiar to itself. In an infectious disease the majority of its distinguishing symptoms are due to the toxine rather than to the presence of the bacillus itself, although the latter may in certain diseases be the cause of local conditions which may ulti- mately cause the death of the infected person. How the toxine itself is produced opens up a question of the greatest obscurity. Some hold that it is directly derived from the cell plasma of the bacillus, and shares the specific qualities of that bacillus. Others, again, regard it as the result of the action of the bacillus on pro- teid substances. The micro-organism is introduced into the human body in a variety of ways. It may be in the first place directly inoculated. It may be inhaled. It may be ingested. In order that it should be introduced in one of these ways, it must either contaminate various articles with which the person attacked is in contact, or else be carried in the air, or, lastly, contaminate food or water. The germs of some diseases, such as small-pox and measles, are probably in most cases inhaled ; that of typhoid fever, on the other hand, is always ingested. It is possible, however, that germs which are primarily inhaled may find their way from the mouth and pharynx to the alimentary canal. This would give an easy explanation of those cases of typhoid which seem to be due to dust. The action of insects in assisting the spread of infection depends on their contaminating food. {See article " Dis- infection," vol. ii.) After obtaining an entrance to the body, the germ apparently lies more or less latent for a time before it gives off any marked amount of toxines. This latent period, the period of incubation, dis- tinguishes an infection from an intoxication, no such latent interval occurring in the case of