181 HEREDITY manner of the first. But while we have some facts to go upon in regard to the diffusion of toxins and antitoxins, we have none as yet which warrant us in supposing the diffusion of structural characteristics or of the germinal representatives of these. It remains to ask for some explanation of the widespread belief in the occurrence of a phenomenon, the scientific evidence for which seems so slender. There is no doubt, we are told, that the value of a pure-bred bitch at once goes down if she has been accidentall}' lined by a mongrel, and it is possible that there may be good reason for this, apart from the fact that the episode is not one which figures well in the books. It is possible that the constitution and temper of the bitch may be subtly affected by a coitus—especially fertile coitus—with a dog of inferior strain, and that the deteriorated con- stitution may react upon future offspring although real telegony does not ensue. It is hardly sufficient to remind ourselves that people are indescribably careless about their scientific beliefs, and that breeders are often too super- stitious, for considerations of money value have a potent effect in evolving carefulness, and breeding is gradually becoming an art based on scientific conclusions. There must be some basis for the widespread belief, and the answer given by the practical men themselves is that they have abundant experience of telegony. This leads us to look for phenomena which might be readily mistaken as telegonic, and there can be little doubt that Ewart is right in thinking that the mistake is in the misinterpretation of reversions. The unexpectedness of results when different races are crossed is well known. A dark bantam hen, paired with an Indian game Dorking, produced, amongst others, a cockerel almost identical with a jungle fowl (Gallus banhiva), that is, with the original wild stock. What occurs when different races or breeds are crossed may occur on a smaller scale when individuals of the same breed, but of different strains, are crossed. Reversionary phenomena, however they may be theoretically interpreted, are frequent, and when they occur they are to the practical breeder usually disappointing. In search for an interpretation, he sometimes thinks that he finds one in telegony; that is to say, he gives the blame of the reversionary phenomenon not to the immediately preceding crossing, which may have been theoretically correct, and should have turned out well, but to some remoter, less careful, or perhaps accidental crossing. In this way the remoter sire is made the scape-goat for the reversion, and the belief in telegony has grown. Inheritance of Disease.—The study of the heritability of diseased states has not disclosed any general fact which is not observable in normal cases; and it is only for convenience that the two aspects shoiild be separated. Since Lucas (1847) collected his data showing the heritability of malformations, numerical abnormalities, and many diseased states of body and mind, a more critical study has led physicians to formulate a number of distinc- tions between real and apparent inheritance. As these make for progress they may be briefly illustrated. For notes on the heritability of particular diseases the separate articles should be consulted. (a) The reappearance of a diseased condition in successive generations does not prove that it has been transmitted, or that it is even trans- missible. The Alpine plants which Nageli brought to the botanical garden at Munich became so nuich changed that they were hardly recognisable as the same species, and their descendants were likewise transformed. There was no doubt as to the reappearance of the unusual characters, but there was every doubt that the reappearance was due to inheritance. That it was due to the persistence of the new conditions, and to the changes which these directly impressed on each successive crop, was shown by the fact that when the plants were removed to poor, gravelly soil, the southern modifications disappeared, and the plants were retransformed into their original Alpine state. So it is with many diseased states which re- appear generation after generation, not because they have been transmitted, but because of the persistence of the unhealthy stimuli in function or in environment which originally evoked them. (6) Even when a child is born with symptoms or definite expressions of a disease, it does not follow that the disease was part of the inherit- ance. It may have been acquired by infection through the mother during the foetal period. This may be illustrated in some cases of syphilis. Similarly, there is a growing body of evidence to show that in certain mammals (if not also in man) there may be a passage of antitoxin substances from the blood of an arti- ficially immune mother to the blood of the foetus, so that the offspring may be in conse- quence born immune. But no one who thinks clearly would call this a case of inheritance. (c) In many cases it seems possible and useful to draw a distinction between the inheritance of a definite disease and the inheritance of a constitutional predisposition to it. Thus, since tuberculosis is a bacterial disease, since few children are born tuberculous, and since the disease attacks unequally those who are equally exposed to the same external conditions of infection, it seems probable that what is inherited is a blastogenic variation which expresses itself in " vulnerability of the protective epithelia," etc., in short, in a deteriorated power of resistance to the tuber- cule bacillus. In the same way, to take a case apart from bacterial infection, it seems probable that gout is not as such transmissible, but that