332 HYSTERIA, SURGICAL ASPECTS OF functions. In the female you may find an enlarged or sensitive ovary, or the symptoms of which she complains may vary with the menstrual periods. In the male you may have an undescended or partially descended testis or a phymosis. In either sex there may be the practice of mastur- bation. Dr. Jolly says that "irritative patho- logical conditions of the genitals," which he defines as "sexual abstinence or ovei'-irritation," are often present in hysterical patients. These give rise to " diseased reflex actions " on account of the " increased irritability of the sensory system." This connection between the sexual functions and hysterical affections does not, in my ex- perience, always exist. Hysteria of the Spine.—This subject will be dealt with also under the heads of spinal affections, orthopaedics, etc. I would merely say on the general subject that diagnosis is often very difficult, and that therefore a careful and thorough examination is always necessary. It is not difficult to over- look a slight rigidity of the spine, or a little difference in the length of the lower limbs. I shall not say anything about lateral curva- ture, as I am sure it will be fully dealt with elsewhere. What I have got to say will be limited to the diagnosis of hysterical conditions from Pott's disease of the spine. We may further limit our subject to the earliest stage of caries before any prominence has formed, because the advanced stages of this disease cannot be simulated. In forming a diagnosis the most important symptoms to depend upon are pain and rigidity. In Pott's disease the pain is produced by firm pressure on the spinous processes of the affected vertebrae, and the same pain is produced by downward pressure on the shoulders or head. In more advanced cases you have the patient supporting the head with his hand, or lifting the weight off his back by placing his hands on the chair or bed when sitting iip. In hysteria, on the other hand, we have the pain (as we have seen) excessive, superficial, varying, and not caused by downward pressure, if this be made carefully and without the patient knowing why it is done. As regards rigidity there is an equally well- marked distinction. In caries you have this symptom always present. It is made out by causing the patient to flex, extend, and rotate the spine, when some stiffness in movement, or actual fixation of the diseased portion of the neck or back, will be at once made evident. In hysteria, on the other hand, the back is more frequently limp and weak. Rigidity if present is likely to be spasmodic and of the nature of opisthotonos. There is one thing that I think should always be borne in mind, viz. that in many persons there is a sensitive area in the spine that has no relation with disease in any way whatever. Girdle pain is not an infallible proof of caries of the spine. It can be imitated. But as this symptom is not usually an early one in Pott's disease the absence of a projection and of other symptoms will show that the case is one of simulation. One must remember that severe spinal pain, somewhat hysterical in character, may be caused by a malignant tumour or aneurysm. Neither must it be forgotten that we may have caries occurring in a hysterical subject. Hysterical Affections of Joints. — The diseases which are apt to be simulated are tuber- culous disease of the hip and knee, Brodie's abscess, loose cartilage in the knee, and chronic synovitis (of adhesions, contractures, and de- formities I will speak afterwards). The Hip.—The symptoms that will be imi- tated are pain, lameness, flexion of the joint, lordosis, lateral curvature, flattening of the hip, and adduction with apparent shortening of the limb. As in the case of Pott's disease it is only the early stage than can be simulated. Let us imagine a case. The patient, who is usually delicate-looking and anaemic, limps or is carried in, or we may have to visit her lying in bed. On examining we may find all the symp- toms above enumerated apparent. On careful investigation, however, we will find that the pain is, as usual, exaggerated, superficial, and not increased by pressure on the trochanter, heel, or knee. AH deformity can be made to disappear under careful and gentle manipulation. The normal movements of the joint may also be obtained if performed cautiously and when the patient's attention is otherwise occupied. If the patient be a female the iliac fossa should be examined for a sensitive ovary, especially if there be well-marked flexion of the hip with lordosis. A very good plan, especially in young persons, is to examine the healthy limb first. In doing this the forcible flexion test for hip disease may be employed with advantage. If the healthy limb can be thoroughly flexed on to the abdo- men without raising the affected limb, the latter cannot be diseased. The patient may then be made to stand and walk, and to stand on one leg—first on the sound one, and then on the affected one. If the patient be a boy he should be exam- ined for phymosis and hernia. I have had two cases of complete cure after circumcision. If there should still be some doubt the patient should be placed under the influence of an anaesthetic, and the conditions of the joint care- fully and thoroughly examined. There are reasons why an examination under an anaes- thetic may be specially necessary in the case of females. The Knee.—Tuberculous disease or chronic synovitis are most frequently simulated. The