271 HYDRENCEPHALOID CONDITION and, later, dilated pupils; depressed anterior fontanelle ; convulsions ; squinting; retraction of the head) arising towards the close of life in cases of prolonged diarrhoea in children ; spurious hydrocephalus. Hyclria,tiCS.—The systematic treatment of disease with cold water (Gr. vS(Dp, water, and ittTjOiKos, healing); the water cure. Hydroa,. See Dermatitis Herpetiformis {Synonyms); HyEMATOPORPHYRiNURiA [in Hydroa jEstivalis). HydroadenitiS. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Sweat Glands, Sitjypuration in). Hydroarion.—Cyst of the Ovary. See Ovaries, Diseases of. Hydrobromic Acid.—Acidum hydro- bromicum dilutum (HBr) has been used, in doses of from 15 to 60 m., for the same purposes as the bromides, and also to prevent unpleasant symptoms arising during the prolonged adminis- tration of quinine; it is an official preparation. Hydrocarbons.—Compounds of carbon and hydrogen, forming the paraffin, olefine, acetyline, anthracene, terpene, and benzene series, etc. Hydrocele. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Testicle and Cord, Hydrocele, Con- genital, Infantile, Funicidar, etc.). See a^so Fal- lopian Tubes {Tubo-ovarian Cyst or Ovarian Hydrocele); Fluids, Examination of Pathologi- cal (Cy.siic7'ywic?s,^j'c?roce/e) ; Hernia {Inguinal, Diagnosis ; Femoral, Diagnosis); Neck, Region OF {Cysts, Acqui7'ed, Hydrocele of the Neck). HydrOCenOSiS.—The medical or surgi- cal reduction of dropsy (by hydragogue purga- tives or by aspiration). Hydrocephalus. Acute Hydrocephalus . . . .271 Chronic ,, .... 271 Etiology 271 Sym2}toms . . . . .272 Morbid Anatomy .... 273 Diagnosis . . . . .273 Prognosis . . . . .274 Complications . . . . .274 Treatment . . . . .274 Surgical Treatment of . . . .274 See also Aspirator, Uses of {Chronic Hydro- cephalus) ; Brain, Physiology of (Venous Cir- culation, Pressure on Veins of Galen); Brain, Hypertrophy {Diagnosis from Hydrocephalus) ; Brain, Surgery op (Cephalocele) ; Gastro- intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Chronic Diarrhoea, Spurious Hydrocephalus) ; Head {Shape); Insanity, Pathology of {Congenital Abnormalities); Labour, Prolonged, Faults in the Passenger {Congenital Hydrocep)halus) ; Mental Deficiency {Classification, Hydro- cephalic Cases, Morbid Anatomy); Meninges of THE Cerebrum {Physiology, Causes of Hydro- cephalus) ; Orbit, Diseases of {Malformations); Syphilis {in Children, Hereditary). Definition.—Hydrocephalus signifies a collection of fluid in the cavity of the cranium. The fluid may be situated between the dura mater and the brain, i.e. external or subdural hydro- cephalus ; or it may occupy and distend the ventricles, i.e. internal hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus may be acute or chronic, and the acute or chronic variety may be external or internal. The common form is chronic and internal, and is the only form w'hich needs a detailed description here. Acute Hydrocephalus.—This variety, whether external or internal, is the result of inflamma- tion of the pia mater; it is doubtful if an acute hydrocephalus occurs under any other circumstances. Tuberculous meningitis is the chief cause; it is common to find at post-mortem examinations of those dying of this disease a large excess of fluid in the subdural space, and perhaps several ounces occupying the ventricles. Chronic Hydrocephalus.—Chronic external hydrocephalus is a comparatively rare condition, and is usually secondary to some brain lesion. Whenever the braiii, or a portion of the brain, undergoes shrinkage, a collection of fluid takes place occupying the subdural space correspond- ing to the atrophied part. A considerable amount of fluid may be present in some cases, as for instance when one-half of the brain has undergone partial atrophy. A collection of fluid may also be present in the subdural space in cases of chronic or pachymeningitis. Sub- dural fluid may be found in cases of internal hj'^drocephalus, in which the fluid has burst through some part of the brain and drained into the subdural space. Chronic Internal Hydrocephalus.—In the common and important form of hydrocephalus the fluid is poured out into and gradually distends the lateral ventricles; as the fluid increases the head enlarges, the bones of the skull open out, the fontanelles bulge; there may be mental dulness and perhaps rigidity of the limbs. Etiology. — Under normal conditions the amount of cerebro-spinal fluid in the ventricles and subarachnoid space is small. According to Leonard Hill " the living brain with its circu- lating fluid almost entirely fills the cranium, and the fluid that moistens its surfaces is little more in amount than the synovial fluid in a joint." It is true that, post-mortem, several ounces of fluid will drain away from the cranial cavity and spinal canal after the skull has been removed and the dura mater incised, but it is