248 HIRSUTIES it is justifiable to speak of liypertrichosis as an arrested development. But if ou the trunk and limbs the ordinary casting of the hair had taken place in utero and all the hair follicles had shortened, and if, later, these follicles had (as occurs normally on the scalp) again expanded to the original (double) length, and so given rise to another and a very strong growth of hair, then the condition would be that of a true hypertrichosis, analogous to the hypertrichosis of puberty. Unna is of opinion that both these possibilities may occur, and that while for in- stance the former view holds with regard to the Russian "hairy men," the latter explains such cases as Krao and Julia Pastrana; he prefers to call the former (the simple persistence of the foetal hair) "trichostasisor "hair-stagnation," while the latter is true hypertrichosis. It is easy to exaggerate, as I think Unna does, the difficulty of accepting the theory of an arrest of development; congenital ichthyosis also is char- acterised by excessive growth (of the stratum corneum), and this is pi'obably due to an anomaly of the epitrichium, likewise an arrest of development. If the theory be correct, then in some instances hypertrichosis is truly a mon- strosity rather than a disease, while in others it is more correctly a disease ; so that after more than two hundred years we might write again as Pohlius did in 1669, " De questione an Esau fuerit monstrum." In a similar unsettled state we must leave the question of the atavistic nature of congenital hypertrichosis. No treatment has been proposed or indeed thought of for general hypertrichosis ; but, for the localised form, electricity and the radium and Rontgen rays have been employed for cos- metic purposes. The localised form, it may be remarked, has usually been confounded with hairy na3vus (nfevus pilosus); but it ought to be distinguished from it, for in true hypertri- chosis the underlying skin ought neither to be pigmented nor abnormally vascular. No doubt most of the cases of "bearded infants" and babies born with " tails" have been instances of hairy nsevus affecting the face or sacral region, and the so-called " bathing-drawers " nsevus is a well-known variety of cutaneous pigmentation ; but true cases of hypertrichosis localis occur, although rarely. For instance, there was A. H. Dodd's case of lumbar hypertrichosis {Lancet, ii. for 1887, p. 1063), and there was also Balmanno Squire's {Brit. Med. Journ., i. for 189.3, p. 1265), in which a patch of long hair was present on the side of the neck. L. A. Parry {Lancet, i. for 1896, p. 1717) recorded a case of lumbar hairi- ness affecting two sisters. The so-called " lady with the horse mane " was a case of hypertri- chosis localised in the dorsal region ; in this case there was a defect in the vertebral column (spina bifida occulta) underlying the hair. This asso- ciation of lumbar hypertrichosis with spina bifida occulta has been noted by several observers in other cases, e.g. by W. Strieker {Arch. f. path. Anat., Ixxiii. 624, 1878), by F. von Reckling- hausen {Ibid., cv. pp. 243, 373, 1886), by C. Brunner {Ibid., cvii. 494, 1887), by G. Joachim- sthal {Ibid., cxxxi. 488, 1893), and by others. In some of these instances there was a further complication which came on in later life, namely, perforating ulcer of the foot. Some of the cases reported as infants with tails were no doubt instances of lumbar hypertrichosis. Bland Sutton {Lancet, ii. for 1887, p. 4) wrote sugges- tively on this subject, as did also Emil Kruska {Dissert., Jena, 1890). HirudO.—There are two official species of leech, the green {Sanguisuga officinalis) and the speckled {S. medicinalis), and both are still occasionally used for the purpose of local blood- letting. The bleeding from the triradiate bite given by the leech may sometimes be difficult to check, requiring the application of pressure or of a haemostatic. Leeches are now seldom applied to canals, such as the rectum, or to internal organs, such as the cervix uteri. The Hirudo Australis (Australian Leech) is de- scribed in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. of 1898. Hist id in. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Proteids, Diamido Acids). HistOg^enesiS.—The formation of the tissues (Gr. icttos, a web or tissue, and yevecrts, an origin). HistohaematinS.—Pigments, allied to hsemogiobin, found in the tissues, such as myo- hfematin. See Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Hcenioglobin and its Derivatives). HistoiOg'y.—The study or science of the tissues, their characters and development. Histon.—A proteid, sometimes found in the urine. See Physiology {Proto2:)lasm, Con- jugated Proteids) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Proteids in). History, iViedicai. See Medicine, History of. HistOSan.—A combination of guaiacol and an albumin, which has been used in the treatment of the different forms of tuberculosis (of the lungs, bones, peritoneum, testis, etc.) ; it has been given iii the form of a powder in doses of from 4 to 8 grains. Histrionic IVIania. — Insanity char acterised by the imitation of the movements of a player; dramatism. Hives.—A name given popularly to various skin diseases of children, including the " red gum " (Strophulus), chicken-pox, and nettlerash; it is also sometimes applied to enteritis {Bowel-