411 INFECTION the latter. This period may be long or short. Various infectious diseases show a range from a few hours up to nearly four weeks, some indeed much longer. Moreover, the period of latency is by no means constant in the case of any given disease, the variation, for instance, in typhoid fever being nearly three weeks. It would ap- pear that in some diseases, at least, the length of the incubation period may be affected by the dose of infection which the subject has under- gone. The larger the dose the earlier the disease may begin. It must always be remembered, in computing the length of an incubation period, that the reckoning must be made from the exposure to infection to the first rise of temperature. Need- less confusion is sometimes caused by dating up to the time when the rash of an exanthematous fever appears. Again, it must be remembered in cases where the latent period has appeared unduly long that it is perfectly possible that infective matter may have been carried about on the clothes or elsewhere by the patient, and that the real date of infection was perhaps a week subsequent to the last exposure. When an infection has occurred it may be local or general. In the first case, as for in- stance diphtheria or tetanus, the germs obtain a nidus at a given spot and cause some local disturbance and inflammation. They are not found in the blood, and the constitutional dis- turbance set up is due to their toxines and not to themselves. On the other hand, in a disease like anthrax the bacilli are found in the blood- vessels and the infection is general. Not only are the toxines in such cases given off probably more rapidly, but the mere mechanical presence of the bacilli may cause lesions of great import- ance, such as emboli. Again, an infection may be specific or non- specific. In many diseases we know that the germ with which they are identified always causes an exactly similar series of symptoms and of pathological lesions. Such infections are truly specific. But there are other diseases "which are due to micro-organisms, and so must be classed as infective, which present the same clinical and pathological features, and yet may be found in different instances to be due to per- fectly distinct germs. Thus pneumonia may be due to more than one organism, and the same holds true of ulcerative endocarditis. Suppura- tion, again, may be caused by quite a number of different micro - organisms. {See " Micro- organisms " and " Suppuration.") The exact progress of an infection when once the germs have obtained an entrance into the body remains a question for speculation. No doubt a certain number of them are destroyed by the phagocyte cells, but these cells are prob- ably without action on the toxines given off" by the bacteria. The sudden manner in which many of the acute infections start would lead one to believe that the body, by means of its cells and fluids, can offer resistance up to a certain point by counteracting in some way or other the multiplication and activity of the invading germs.^ After a longer or shorter interval the balance between the attack and defence is suddenly lost and the symptoms of the infection suddenly appear. As the infection progresses, various substances are elaborated by the resisting organism which possess germicidal and antitoxic properties, and the invading germs are by degrees, or in some diseases where there is a well-marked crisis suddenly, killed off or rendered harmless and their toxines are neutral- ised. In some cases, however, the reaction of the infected individual may be below the aver- age, or, on the other hand, the infection may be more severe, and the toxines not being neutral- ised the individual succumbs to toxaemia and dies. It must be remembered that death may also occur from lesions caused by the presence of the bacilli, as for instance death by suffoca- tion in laryngeal diphtheria, or by haemorrhage or perforation in typhoid fever. The amount of " resistance " offered to various infections by different individuals may vary considerably ; that is to say, there may be an actual predisposition on the part of the individual to certain infections. This predisposition may be " natural," — that is to say, that certain species of animals and certain races of men are particularly prone to develop certain infections, —that is to say, their natural resistance towards these infections is below the normal. On the other hand, predisposition may be artificial or acquired. Many diseases are more easily con- tracted by persons whose power of resistance has been weakened by starvation, fatigue, loss of blood, damaged digestive power, or exposure. In such cases the vitality of the individual is so depressed that germs which would find no chance of obtaining a lodgment in the tissues in a state of health, easily succeed in infecting him. On the other hand, as opposed to predisposi- tion, there may be immunity to an infection. This immunity, also, may be either natural or acquired. Natural immunitj'^ is shown in the cases of individuals who, frequently exposed to an infection, fail to contract it. It may be in all probability inherited. The fact that the father and ancestors of a person have all suff'ered from a given infection may act as a protection against the child contracting that infection badly or contracting it at all. The converse of this is seen in the fatal ravages caused by such a disease as measles, when it is introduced into a community in which it was previously unknown. Epidemics in the Fiji and in the Faroe Islands are instances of how serious a comparatively mild disease may be when it obtains a perfectly new soil. The immunity of an animal to 1 See " Immunity," p. 342.