212 HERNIA sutures Hey's ligament is united to Cooper's ligament, and the crural canal is firmly closed. Lockwood's operation is most satisfactory in its I'esults, and is, in my opinion, decidedly better than Bassini's, which closes only the lower opening of the canal, and leaves un- touched the crural ring. Herniotomy. See Hernia {Treatment, Operative). Heroin.—Diacetyl-acid-ester of morphine ; a white crystalline powder with a slightly bitter taste. It is insoluble, and is usuallj' employed in the form of heroin hydrochloride. which is freely soluble. Z>o.s'e—o^g-J gr- It is somewhat similar in its action to codeine. It does not stupefy the patient, does not consti- pate, and is stimulant rather than depressant to respiration. It is given to check excessive coughing in phthisis, bronchitis, and asthma. Glyco-Heroin, a proprietary article, adult dose 3i., is a convenient prepai-ation for such con- ditions. Heroin is preferable to morphia for continuous use in inoperable malignant disease, etc., when it may be administered by the mouth, hypodermically, or as a suppository according to the indications present. Herpes. Definitions . . . . . .212 Herpes—Fbbrilis 212 H. Facialis 212 H. Genitalis 213 Herpes Zoster . . . . .213 Etiology 213 Symptoms and Course . . .213 Pathology . . . . .214 Complications and Sequelce . . 214 Diagnosis . . . . .215 Treatment . . . . .215 See also Chest-Wall, Affections of {Fain, Herpes Zoster) ; Cornea {Fhlyctemdar Ulcer, Herpes of the Cornea); Dermatitis Herpeti- formis {Herpes Gestationis, etc.); Erythema {Types, Herpes Iris); Eyelids, Affections of {Herpes Frontalis); Foot and Mouth Disease {Diagnosis, Herpes Labialis); Gout {Irregular, Cutaneous System); Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation and Trophic Disorders); Malaria {Benign Tertian Fever, Febrile Paroxysm) ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Sym- ptoins. Skin Lesions); Nerves, Peripheral {In- juries, Symptoms); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Symptomatology); Penis, Surgical Affections of {Inflammatory, Herpes Pro- genitalis); Pharynx, Acute Pharyngitis ; Pneu- monia, Clinical {Clinical Featu/>-es, Herpes Labialis); Pregnancy, Affections and Com- plications {Cutaneous Bashes, Herpes Gesta- tionis) ; PuERPERiuM, Pathology {Affections of Nipples, Herpes Zoster); Purpura {Purpura as a Disease, Symptoms); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Dhobie Itch or Herpes Circinatus; Tinea Imbricata or Herpes Desquamans) ; Stomatitis {Aj^hthous); Tabes Dorsalis {Sym- p)tomatology. Sensory Symptoms); Venereal Dis- ease {Soft Sores, Diagnosis, Herpes Progenitalis). Herpes Herpes is a term employed to designate an acute inflammatory affection, characterised by the development of vesicles closely grouped upon a patch of erythematous skin or mucous membrane. Two forms of disease are recognised as coming under the above anatomical designation, but they differ widely as regards their clinical phenomena and pathological relations. Herpes Febrilis vbl Catarrhalis Febrile or catarrhal herpes frequently follows a rigor, and may be its sole sequela. Before the appearance of the eruption the temperature may be considerably raised, especially in chil- dren, but it usually falls on its appearance. Crops of herpes are of common occurrence in acute febrile diseases, accompanying their onset or crisis; they are most frequent in pneumonia, pleurisy, ague, enteric fever, and "catheter fever," but may accompany many indefinite gastro - intestinal disturbances. In other in- stances herpes may occur and recur frequently, often at definite intervals, without any rise of temperature or tangible determining cause. Many cases tend to occur in spring and autumn, and attain almost " epidemic " proportions. The lesions of febrile herpes do not show nerve dis- tribution like those of zoster, from which they further differ in being frequently bilateral, sometimes even symmetrical, in being painless, leaving no scar, and in their great tendency to relapse. Herpes facialis is the commonest form; it attacks in order of frequency the lips, the alte nasi, the chin, and the ears ; the " flush patches " in the malar region are also often involved. Patches niay also appear on the tongue, soft palate, uvula, and tonsils generally in connec- tion with digestive disorders, and as these soon give rise to minute ulcerations (" dyspeptic ulcers "), as the result of the maceration of their epidermis by the fluids of the mouth, they may be mistaken for aphthse, diphtheria, or even syphilis. On the skin a slightly infiltrated reddish patch is at first present, accompanied generally by a little tension, burning, tingling, or itching. The patch is usually round or oval, and may be of very variable size; in a few hours minute vesicles form upon it, averaging about the size of a millet seed. Some of these vesicles usually coalesce, but at the margin they generally remain discrete. In two or three days the vesicles burst, their epidermis shrivels, their liquid contents dry up to form a thin scab; when this is removed a minute, shallow, poly-