INDIGESTION 385 endings in the gastric mucous membrane ; and, if frequently repeated, dilatation of the stomach may be a result, more especially where per- sistent irritation and consequent contracture has induced an actual hypertrophy of the pyloric tissue. Analyses of the gastric contents in cases belonging to these several classes generally yield characteristic points of difference. Wher- ever stasis accompanied by loss of peptic power and deficiency of hydrochloric acid has taken place, examination of the contents affords evi- dence of an excess of organic acids of fermen- tative processes, and of decreased digestive activity. Should the contents be obtained from a dilated stomach of nervous origin, or following upon cicatricial pyloric obstruction, they may prove to contain hydrochloric acid in normal or excessive proportion. Associated with Displacement of Abdominal Viscera. — This variety of indigestion is fully treated of elsewhere (Gastroptosis, Enteroptosis, Floating Kidney), and need not be further alluded to here, except to emphasise the pos- sibility of dyspeptic symptoms arising from such lesions. Oesophageal diverticula, congenital or acquired, may give rise to very pronounced symptoms of indigestion, attended with great difficulty in diagnosis. The special features shown by such cases chiefly consist in sudden acts of regurgi- tation of food, unassociated with nausea and the ordinary phenomena of emesis ; the regurgi- tated material differing in composition from gastric contents, lacking hydrochloric acid and pepsin, although frequently of acid reaction from the presence of organic acids of fermenta- tion, and as a rule including portions of food swallowed some time, some days even, before- hand. Eiaough has already been said as to the factors which have a part in causing the appearance of dyspeptic symptoms, and whose origin must be sought for elsewhere, to indicate the necessity of careful investigation in all possible directions before a trustworthy diagnosis can be arrived at. This matter is so important that it may again be insisted on, that recognition of the probable existence of a primary cause, and appreciation of its true nature, are of more value in connection with indigestion than the greatest familiarity with the local symptoms common to it. Treatment.—In few conditions is an intelli- gent and rational perception of the close rela- tionship between cause and effect so valuable as in the treatment of indigestion. And, further, owing to the fact that the cognomen, indi- gestion, refers to symptoms of varied origin, although it may be similar in character, it is of the utmost importance to ascertain the nature of the true, as compared with the apparent, cause which produces the effect, before any VOL. IV satisfactory and efhcieut course of treatment is decided on. Simple, passing attacks of mild indigestion, arising from brief and temporary errors of diet, of habit or circumstance, and characterised by the symptoms common to slight gastric catarrh, readily subside if a light diet be ordered, the exciting cause not repeated, and the bowels freely moved with one or other of the milder purgative drugs; if thought advisable, even if only as a " placebo," a gastric sedative may be given: one of the different forms in which bis- muth is prepared, with or without alkaline carbonates. The main indication lies in stop- page of the direct source, light diet, never taken in large bulk at one time, and free evacuation of the bowel. Acute cases of gastric catarrh, due to alcoholic excess, to severe local inflammation from irritat- ing articles of food or toxins, or occurring during the course of subacute and chronic attacks, either from the principle of the summation of stimuli which in these cases accrue from long- continued dietetic irritation, or from ingestion of more than usually irritating material, benefit most from prompt emptying of the stomach, by giving an emetic, if indeed nature has not anticipated this, and from exhibition of a rapid purge, saline or cholagogue, to rid the intestine of toxic bodies. Milk and slops—no alcohol, tea, or coffee, no vegetables or fruits, cooked or raw—should form the diet, given every two or three hours during the day. Water, cold or hot,—aerated, with or without potash or soda, or mixed with the milk, — may be taken ad libitum as is found agreeable. The local gastric distress is best relieved by the application externally of heat or of a mustard plaster. The common coincidence of duodenal and acute gastric catarrh, leading to catarrhal jaundice, should be kept in mind, and the adoption of measures appropriate for the removal of this condition in addition to those directed against the gastritis will often prevent this sequela. As few cases of mild indigestion of brief dura- tion, or of acute gastritis, are due to more than a temporary inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane from irritating food-stuffs, or too large meals, the majority are best treated by regulation of diet and habit, and by giving the stomach a period of comparative rest; the less medicine used the better. If, however, such attacks are accompaniments of more general morbid conditions, such as ansemia, chlorosis, gout, valvular heart disease, portal obstruction, and neurasthenia, it is not sufficient to treat them alone apart altogether from the really more important general lesion. In truth, under these circumstances it is more difficult to treat them successfully at the time, while they display an immensely greater tend- ency to recur. But it is in the chronic and protracted sub- 25