517 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF degrees of intensity. With some patients it is the first step only which costs, and after he has been compelled to take a spoonful he will eat the rest of his meal voluntarily. Another will take nothing voluntarily, but will allow himself to be spoon fed; others will need to be fed with the tube, but will take contentedly whatever is thus administered; while yet others will resist to the uttermost any attempt to feed them, and when at length they are fed will thrust their fingers into their throats and do their utmost to induce vomiting of the food given. Very many methods have been adopted of feeding those who refuse food, and an account of most of them may be found in Hack Tuke's Dic- tionary of Psychological Medicine. Practically the methods may be reduced to three—the spoon, the nasal tube, and the ordinary stomach tube. The spoon should be used where it can be used, and where it cannot the stomach tube is undoubtedly the best alternative. The numerous deaths that have occurred from pneumonia after the use of the nasal tube are alone sufficient to condemn it. A patient who refuses food is suicidal, and the introduction of food by the nasal tube gives him an opportunity of inhaling the food purposely if this do not occur by accident; or if the tube is passed sufficiently far to obviate this danger he can bring it forward into his mouth, bite off the end, and swallow it. In feeding by the stomach tube it is important to remember two precau- tions. The tube should be well softened in scalding water, and the food should be strained through a sieve so as to free it from lumps which would block the tube. No reliance can be placed upon the assurance of the cook that the food has been strained, and the operator should strain it himself or have a strainer in- serted into the funnel. With regard to the nature of the food, the slops enumerated on a previous page are the most appropriate. Liebig's extract, Bovril, Valentine's meat juice, and other extracts can be added if it is thought expedient; but as their nutritive value is low, and as there is no palate to consider, there is not much object in doing so. More important is the administration of helps to digestion, of zymine, of pepsine, lacto-pepsin, etc. In melancholia, and in acute insanity gener- ally, there is almost always some disorder of function of the stomach and intestines, and this has to be considered and dealt with. Usually when the stomach tube is passed a few bubbles of air will escape from the stomach, and in some cases this air is horribly foetid. When this is the case the stomach should be system- atically washed out before the administration of food, and after its fa3tid contents have been withdrawn it should be flooded with a solution of permanganate of potash or, better, of sanitas oil, which has a much more powerful deodor- ising effect, and to this treatment may be added the administration of ^-naphthol or other in- testinal disinfectant. Apart from those that have been enumerated, our means of dealing with the morbid processes that underlie insanity are extremely limited, as indeed may be inferred from our ignorance of their nature. It is found, however, that there are certain morbid states of body which accom- pany certain forms or cases of insanity, and that the insanity fluctuates, recovers, and re- lapses, pari passu, with the bodily state. The connection of melancholia with gastro-intestinal disorder has already been referred to, and cases have been recorded of cystitis and other bodily maladies with which insanity coexisted and with which it varied. Hence it is incumbent in every case of insanity to investigate thoroughly the bodily health, and to treat any bodily dis- order that may be discovered in the hope that with its improvement the mental state also may improve. The opinion is more and more gaining ground that in a large proportion of cases of insanity the disturbing agent is a poison of some kind. In general paralysis, in acute delirious mania, in puerperal, alcoholic, and saturnine insanities this mode of origin exists without doubt; and true curative treatment of insanity will begin when our knowledge is sufficiently advanced to enable us to eliminate, destroy, or counteract these poisons before they had prodiiced irre- trievable structural damage. This knowledge we have not yet reached, and in the mean- time our therapeutical measures ai'e limited to treating whatever morbid process we can find that is amenable to treatment, and so, by inducing a general state of good health, to place the tissues of the individual in the most favour- able state for eliminating or destroying the poison. In view of this mode of the causation of insanity, it is upon organo-therapy and serum- therapy that our hopes are chiefly based of eventually treating insanity in a scientific manner, and the tentative efforts that have been made in this direction are not destitute of encouragement, though more than this cannot yet be said of them. The administration of thyroid extract has been tried in a large number of cases besides those of cretinism and myxce- dema, in which its action is so marvellous, and in a few of these cases recovery has followed under circumstances that leave little doubt that the recovery was due to the administration of the extract; but no class of cases has yet been identified as specially amenable to this mode of treatment, and ti-eatment by serum-therapy has not yet begun. While many of the poisons that serve in the production of insanity are unknown, and while those that are known are not amenable to the action of any known antidote, there are some which, if we cannot deal with them when once