INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF 443 sense of society, he is held to have been of unsound mind, memory, or understanding. Lastly, the law may inquire whether a person is capable of managing himself or his affairs, and evidence is led to show what his conduct has been. Should his conduct be, in certain measure, different from what is commonly held to be right and prudent, it will be held insane, and he will be placed under judicial guardian- ship. The law takes but little cognisance of trifling deviations from conventional usage, and its definitions are designed to meet cases of patent insanity. Medicine, on the other hand, is less easily satisfied, and a medical definition of insanity becomes prolix in the endeavour to prove comprehensive. Small deviations are often momentous in consequences, but the superficial observer is impatient of the " trivialities " of science. Yet, as the twitching of a finger may be the herald of gross cerebral mischief, so may a trifling irritability grow into a mental storm of intensity and duration. The little cloud like a man's hand foretells the delvige. As the world becomes more critical of conduct, so is the alienist most observant of conduct. The insane person is antisocial, or rather un- social. He does not play his part as formerly, he does not play his part in conformity with the rules of the game. Dr. Mercier has summed up the whole matter in " three factors—disorder of the highest nerve arrangements, disorder of conduct, disorder of consciousness; and in every case the disorder of consciousness includes disorder of thought and feeling, of self-conscious- ness, and of consciousness of the relation of self to surroundings." A consideration of CuUen's definition of insanity shows how far we have advanced. He said : " Insanity is a lesion of the intellectual faculties without pyrexia and without coma." Although we still speak of the intellectual faculties our business as physicians is with the underlying physical constitution ;'and Cullen's definition fails as completely in regard to the stated lesion as in regard to the absence of pyrexia. We are not now concerned with mere imperfections of the intellect, our measure of insanity is the observed reaction of the indi- vidual in relation to his environment; if that I'eaction is abnormal, owing to nervous disorder, the person is insane, and it is this question of disorder consequent on disease which makes insanity an affair of medicine. The disease may be of the most varied character. It may be what we conveniently term functional, it may be a coarse degenerative process, it may be an arrest of development. And in conse- quence of these infinite variations, from the indefinite beginnings of abnormal action to the most marked depravation of mind, there are innumerable cases of difficulty, elusive and changeable. Thus we have to fall back upon the rule to consider each case on its merits— the circumstances affecting each have to be weighed. Further, for our purpose in eluci- dating the causes of insanity we have to take into consideration the neuroses which are in- dicative of nervous instability. We cannot in this connection exclude these " minor" dis- orders, such as neurasthenia or hysteria. The neurotic inheritance by transmutation may evolve as marked insanity. The seeds of degeneracy are evident, and are only too apt to germinate. We have arrived, therefore, at the conclusion that nervous instability, nervous derangement, nervous degeneration, are the underlying phy- sical facts of insanity; that the mental aberra- tion is at least concomitant with these facts, and that we have to deal with the various forms of insanity on the same general principles which guide us in other departments of medicine, specialising, indeed, as may be requisite in the due observation of nervous phenomena, and giving all attention to the details of conduct which constitute the reaction of the individual whose mental condition is the subject of in- vestigation. Pathological Considerations.—The anatomical, physiological, and pathological considerations which call for special study need not be enlarged upon here {see p. 451). Suffice it to say that these are of the utmost importance, and that the present state of knowledge is advancing rapidly year by year. We may, however, but briefly indicate that the nervous system is liable to disease in conditions similar to those occurring in other parts of the body. If there be a differ- ence it is in the far-reaching effects of toxic agencies, traumatic accidents, inflammatory and degenerative processes affecting the delicate and complex constitution of the most highly organ- ised and latest developed material in nature. The neurons with their complicated connections are susceptible of damage in measure yet unde- termined by our finest instruments of research. Grosser changes, indeed, have been detected where, but lately, changes were denied. The territory of functional and idiopathic disorders is being rapidly investigated, and pioneers are charting the unexplored. We are thus enabled to comprehend the fatuity of advanced epileptic dementia, and the hopelessness of recovery, long- recognised, is explained by the irreparable damage to the nervous elements. We are thus impressed by the primary importance of physical conditions which eventually become manifest in mental disorders. The mental disorder, the insanity, is not the main question in the mind of the physician. The grandiose speech and the extravagant conduct of the general paralytic are merely symptoms of a special cerebral disease. They do not constitute the real malady, however helpful in diagnosis. The general paralytic may be depressed and melancholic, but he is still