476 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS society for sane. In others, however, the mind as a whole has sulfered arrest. Or at least there is a serial defect, most obvious in the last and highest functions, though with occasional developments of a disproportionate kind which seem excrescences in a weak mind. Two forms are to be noted : imbecility and degeneracy. Of these, imbecility is considered in a special article {vide " Mental Deficiency "). Degeneracy.—On this subject, which has become fashionable of late, a great deal has been said and written which will not stand severe criticism, and the student must take what will be said as a rather tentative account of de- generacy. As I take it, the term describes a biological conception. A degenerate is one whose mind betokens a failure of his race. So far as he is concerned the race is coming to an end—not actually perhaps, but virtually. A degenerate may procreate children who will prolong his seed indefinitely, but if so, it will be by a lucky marriage and in spite of his weakness. And such an individual is to be distinguished from the merely neurotic, many of whom are of a quite potent cerebral vitality. But if the practitioner sets out to diagnose degeneracy in its mild forms he will certainly fall into error. For the diagnosis between an arrest of mental function which is but a temporary interruption of a family's evolution and that which betokens the beginning of its end, is quite beyond us. And so in practice, at all events, we restrict our iise of the term to obvious and gross types, such as are appreciable by an enlightened police. And that is fortunate, for gross degenerates are always immoral and probably always criminal. Dr. Urquhart has indicated the type. But a warning must be given because the subject has suffered a good deal from the amateur exposition of extremists who go much further than he has indicated. In particular, the stigmata, the defects of conformation in degeneracy, have achieved an importance which is altogether fictitious. From scalp to sole no spot or blemish escapes the category of the erudite observer. Degenerates have many of these blemishes ; hence, it is argued, blemishes indicate degeneracy—a fallacy which a slight attention to biology, some elementary logic, or even a sense of humoui-, should have prevented. For we all have good friends who are very ugly; supernumerary digits do not betoken stupidity; early baldness or loss of teeth is not the monopoly of the vicious. The fact is, many of the stigmata of degeneracy are in more or less unessential organs which are undergoing the common fate of becoming rudimentary. As intelligence evolves it is quite likely that the race will depart further and further from a type of physical beauty which evolved centuries ago luider the influence of direct sexual selection ; and popular ideas of beauty are nearly as fickle as fashions of dress. Once upon a time, no doubt, the disappearance of fur from the human chest and shoulders was regarded as a grave event, and posterity will probably suffer hairless scalps and artificial teeth with equanimity. Surely these externals are of but slight importance, except for police purposes, compared with the internal processes which are essential to nutrition and recuperation. Sterility, susceptibility to infectious diseases, the tendency to other toxications described by Dr. Urquhart, cardiac and other visceral disease, anaemia, vascular degeneration, are much more significant of racial decay than are the anatomical features amenable to the foot-rule. The central fact is, of course, that in degenerates these defects of physique, both external and internal, occur in abnormal degree. Of mental facts, immorality is the primary and essential feature of degeneracy. Morals are, at least theoretically, the budding point of evolution, and no one may be regarded as degenerate who feels and knows and does the right. And to degenerates lack of morality usually means criminality, for most degenerates are too odd to be law-abiding, and too stupid to escape. In the ranks of society higher than the lowest, however, the temptation to commit police offences is not so great, or, as in the case of sexual perverts, detection may be very difficult. But failures other than in morals are always to be noted in the degenerate. He may be clever, but not of sound judgment; very knowing, but not wise; fond, but not faithful; sentimental, but not just; convivial, but not happy; active, but without endurance. And the practitioner must be prepared to recognise these potential criminals, whether noble or lowly born. His common knowledge of the human features is all the anthropology that he requires for practical purposes; he will pay great attention to facial expression; he will note care- fully any defect of nutritional processes ; and, above all, he will try to discover, unostentatiously, the feelings and ideas and impulses of degeneracy. And, having assuredly diagnosed these creatures, he will treat them with a view to the safety of society, and with just as much leniency as is feasible. For these unfortunates no liberty, no opportunity of evil, is safe. They must be con- trolled and disciplined, segregated or banished, or otherwise treated as rigorously as circum- stances justify. Progressive Arrest of Development (Prim- ary Dementia).—The cases now referred , to, combine arrest of development with active degeneration. They are cases in which the mind develops up to a certain point and seems to the patient's friends to be going on well. Then it stops, and forthwith deteriorates more or less rapidly. Such cases of apparently idio- pathic dementia occur at all stages of life, and they comprise a most, interesting group not easily understood. To explain them we must