IMMUNITY 355 is mixed with typhoid bacilli, which have been grown on agar and are suspended in bouillon. The result is watched at 37° C. either in a tube or hanging drop. The blood used is obtained by puncturing the tip of the finger or lobe of the ear, is drawn into a sterile pipette, and then blown into a small narrow sterilised tube, which is laid horizontally till coagulation begins and then placed upright. In a few hours sufficient serum will have collected at the bottom of the tube, or the separation may be hastened by centrifuging. The serum should then be at once diluted with 50 parts of bouillon, for normal serum in a concentration greater than this will sometimes agglutinate. The serum of typhoid patients will iisually agglutinate when greatly diluted (up to 1-5000), but a marked agglutination with 1-50 is sufficient for diagnostic proof, provided that it occurs at about 20° C, within one or at most two hours. The typhoid culture employed must not be more than twenty- four hours old and of moderate virulence. The reaction is chax'acterised by the formation of first smaller and then larger clumps, whilst a control test with the same typhoid emulsion does not show this phenomenon in the same period of time. The serum of typhoid patients sometimes gives this reaction on the second or third day, but usually only later and sometimes only during convalescence. The agglutinative power may, however, persist for a long time after recovery from typhoid, even though the attack be mild, and this may give rise to errors in diagnosis. That there is really a fresh attack of typhoid may be proved by observing on repeated quantitative determination that the agglutinative power is increasing. The severity of an attack cannot be deduced from the intensity of the agglutination. At the height of the disease the agglutinative power may sometimes be reduced; and in a mild attack the serum may sometimes agglutinate very markedly. The negative result of one examination does not exclude the possibility of typhoid; examination should be again under- taken, as it is often only in the later stages that the serum has the power of agglutinating. The agglutinative power of a typhoid serum is usually but not always proportionate to its specific bactericidal action on typhoid bacilli. Thus the serum of dogs after the introduction of typhoid bacilli by the mouth may agglutinate and yet have no specific bactericidal power, which it does, however, possess if the typhoid bacilli have been inoculated into the peritoneum. (c) Plague.—By the repeated intra-venous or intra-peritoneal injection of plague cultures killed at 58° a serum can be obtained from rabbits. Small doses of this serum protect other rabbits against virulent plague bacilli, even though used twelve hours subsequent to infection (Yersin, Calmette, and Borrel). Yersin based his method for the production of plague serum on this fact. In view of the fact that natural recovery from plague confers a definite, though only a relative, immunity to plague, Haff'kine in 1897 tried direct active immunisation of man by means of killed plague cultures. The method consists in the subcutaneous injection of bouillon cultures of plague bacilli, one month old, killed at 70°. For an adult an injection of 2-3 cc. is made into the upper arm or abdomen, and is followed by swelling and tenderness at the seat of injection and by slight fever. This injection ought to be followed by a stronger dose after eight or ten days, but few people can be induced to submit to a second inoculation. During the plague epidemic in India HafFkine's inoculations have been performed on a large scale and with favourable results. When plague broke out in the prison of Byculla in Bombay, and after fifteen cases, eight of them fatal, had occurred between 23rd and 30th of January, HafFkine on the evening of the 30th of January inoculated 154 prisoners, who subjected themselves volun- tarily, giving each one 3 cc. Up till the 6th of February there were only two cases of plague, neither being fatal, among these 154 persons situated in the same circumstances and living- together with 177 non - inoculated. Of the latter, 14 were attacked and 6 died. During the plague epidemic of 1897 in the Portuguese town of Damaon, it is recorded that among 62 families the mortality from plague was 8 per cent in 250 inoculated individuals, and 29'8 per cent in 124 non-inoculated. In inoculated persons, moreover, the course of the disease is said to be milder and the buboes suppurate more rapidly. Further statistics have also indicated the remarkable reduction of mortality among the inoculated, and active immunisation with killed plague bacilli must therefore be strongly recommended, more especially for the protection of physicians, nurses, persons who have to carry out disinfection, and so on. Immunity by this method is only obtained after about a week, as has been definitely proved by animal experiment, but it then lasts for months. According to the researches of the German Plague Commission, the immunising substances are contained in the cell substances of the plague bacilli, and not merely in the filtrates. The use of bouillon cultures is there- fore of no special value, and it is better to use agar cultures which have been suspended in physiological saline solution, and then killed by being heated for one hour at 65° C. Heating to the boiling-point would destroy the immunising substances of the plague bacilli in conti-adis- tinction to those of typhoid and cholera bacteria. Before using this emulsion as a vaccine it is advisable to add 0-5 per cent of carbolic acid, which does not impair the power of the im- munising substances. Larger quantities of plague bacilli can be injected into man than typhoid bacilli, for the former are less poisonous. Plague immune serum obtained by the treat-