HOMO CAUDATUS 251 give some touches of artistic verisimilitude to the lower limbs in accordance with the father's military experiences. A suspicion of the same aesthetic amplification attaches to the illustration which accompanies J. S. Elshott's description of a " Puella monstrosa," who had an iimbilical hernia, a left arm ending in a point, deformed digits, and two rat-tail-like appendages, one attached to the right thigh and the other over the tip of the coccyx. By a curious coincidence, the father of this infant was also a soldier {Miscel. Acad. nat. curios., iv.-v., Append, p. 80, 1676). I need cite no others of these seventeenth century cases, for the two already mentioned will serve as types. It is to be regretted that the shadow of doubt rests upon them, for if they were free from it they would stand out prominently as the best instances that we possess of truly tail-like tails in the human subject. The shadow, how- ever, does rest upon them. Before I proceed to describe some modern examples of tailed infants, it may be well worth while to narrow down the whole subject by excluding the "false tails." In the first place, it is necessary to set aside sacro-coccygeal neoplasms of all kinds. I recently saw (with Mr. Stiles) a female infant with a large tumour attached to the post-anal region which, when examined by the Rdntgen rays, was found to contain a spinal column and ribs; obviously this was not a tail but an attached twin or parasitic foetus. Teratomata, teratoid growths, and dermoid cj^sts may also grow in this region; Thirk's case (Oesterr. med. Wchnschr., N. .36, 1121, 1847) and Jacob's (Dublin Hosp. Rep., iv. 571, 1827) prob- ably both belong to this group. Lipomata, also, of the sacral region are not tails, although when they become pendulous, as in one of Bartels' cases {Deutsche Ztschr. f. Chir., xx. 100, 1884) and in Fieux' case (Hev. mens, de gynec. d'obst. et paed. de Bordeaux, iv. 456, 1902), they may closely simiilate them. All caudal appendages composed of fat are not, however, of necessity lipomata, for Virchow found in one of them (Greve's specimen) some traces of the notochord {Arch. f. path. Anat., Ixxii. 129, 1878; Ixxix. 176, 1880). Again, the sac of a spina bifida of the sacral region must not be mistaken for a tail (Fig. 2); at the same time a caudal append- age and a spina bifida sac may be associated, as we shall see immediately. Neither can we re- gard the hairs which sometimes arise over a spina bifida occulta, and grow to some length, as a true tail. These various structures may all become caudiform, but they are to be separ- ated off from human tails. I have personally been able to examine several cases of "tails" and "pseudo-tails." In one of these there was an open lumbar spina bifida, and below it a thick caudiform growth with a little button-like projection at its lowest point; it seemed to be no more than a lipoma. In another case there was a sacral spina bifida sac; and in another there was a conical pro- jection which seemed to contain the lower end of the spinal column, and from the tip of which an amniotic band took origin. The latter of these two cases has some claim to be regarded as a tail. In another case, which I saw in January 1902, there was a curious combination of spina bifida and tail: the child, a male, was fifteen months old when brought under my notice by Dr. T. J. Thyne; it was born six months after the death (from typhoid fever) of the father, and the mother had one other child, a female, nine years of age, and normally formed; the infant had a sacral spina bifida sac, covered with skin, and measuring 6 inches in circimafer- ence, and from the apex of this there projected a tail-like appendage. The " tail " was 1 inch in length, and was covered with normal skin; it was quite soft; it consisted of two parts, a proximal, resembling the first phalanx of the little finger, and a much thinner distal part, more tail-like. Unfortunately, a photograph of this caudal appendage was not obtained. It had resemblances to that described some time ago by Edmund Owen {Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., xxxix. 425, 1888), who compared it to a "fat little finger." In yet another case which came under my notice there was a " tail." This was a foitus, suffering from an exuberant overgrowth of cartilage in various parts of the skeleton {chondrodystrophia fvetalis hyperjilastica), and the coccyx, participating in this change, grew into a marked " tail." What may be called " true tails" may be subdivided into those which contain bone or cartilage and those which do not (soft tails), or into those which are attached or adherent ("die angewachsenen Schwanze," Bartels) and those which are free ("die freien Schwanze," Bartels). Of tails containing bone or cartilage or rudiments of vertebrte there are very few specimens known. T. Bartholin {Hist. anat. et med. rar., cent, vi., hist. 44, p. 268, 1681) and M. F. Lochner {Miscel. Acad. nat. cur., Dec. ii., Ann. vii. p. 230, 1689) have recorded cases in which it is stated that more than five coccygeal vertebrte were present in the tail; but it is a pity that the details are not more convincingly stated, and that Lochner writes " in a merry vein," as Jacob {loc. cit.) puts it. No modern instance has been reported of a human tail containing more than the usual number of coccygeal vertebra;, namely, three to five, and even of them there are very few (Voltaire, Diet, philos., xi. 211, 1832; Orn- stein, Ztschr. f. EthnoL, xi. 303, 1879 ; C. Hennig and A. Rauber, Arch. f.path. Anat., cv. 83, 1886). Of specimens containing cartilage or rudiments of the notochord I may refer to those of J. Wilson {Ztschr. f. EthnoL, xii. 74, 1880), of S. Blancard {Collectanea medico-physica, Amsterdam, 1680- 88), of Fleischmann (1841) and Gerlach {Morphol. Jahrh., vi. 106, 1880), and of J. H. F. Kohl- brugge {Natuurk. Tijdschr. v. Nederl. Indie,