HYPERPHASIA 285 Hyperphasia.—The inordinate or ex- cessive talking occurring in some forms of insanity; incoherent garruHty. Hyperphoria. See Asthenopia {Mus- cular, Latent Vertical Deviations); Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Abnormal Position). Hyperphrasia.—"The incoherent and exaggerated forms of speech of a maniacal person" (Hack Tuke). Hyperphrenia.—Extraordinary mental excitement; mania. Hyperplasia*—Increase in size of any part by increase in the number of its tissue elements. See Hypertrophy ; Pregnancy, Pathology (Affections of Ovum and Decidua, Hypertrophy of the Decidua). HyperpneusiS. — Excessive flatulence (Gr. vTv'ep, excessive, and TrveCo-ts, panting). Hyperpnoea.—Deepened respiration, not amounting to dyspnoea. See Asphyxia (Defini- tions) ; Respiration (Nervous Mechanism, Hyper- pnoea). Hyperpresbyopia.—Presbyopia of a high degree. Hyperpyraemia. — That condition of the body, usually met with in middle life, when more nourishment is supplied in the form of food and drink (carbon-containing material) than is needed ; it is favourable to the development of gout (F. Hare). Hyperpyrexia.—Extraordinarily high fever (e.g. 107° F.). See Temperature (Eleva- tion, Hyperthermia); see also Brain, Tumours of (Symptoms, Temperature); Brain, Inflamma- tions (Acute Encephalitis) ; Chorea (Prognosis); Hydropathy ; Malaria (Pernicious Attacks, Cerebral Form, Hyperpyrexial Variety); Men- ingitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic (Symptoms); Pneumonia, Clinical (Rational Treatment); Rheumatism, Acute (Treatment of Hyperpyrexia) ; Sunstroke (Definition); Typhoid Fever (Symptoms, Temperature); Typhus Fever (Period of Advance, Tempera- ture) ; Undulant Fever (Complications, Hyper- pyrexia). Hyper-reSOnanCe.—Excessive reson- ance on percussion over a part. Hypersplenomeg^aly. — Excessive splenic enlargement. H y pe rt h e r m i a. See Temperature (Elevation, Causes). Hypertiiymia.—Mental hypersesthesia in the form of melancholia (Hack Tuke); also insanity evinced by acts of foolhardy daring. Hyperthyrea.—A diseased state of the thyroid gland, in which its tissues are in a state of active evolution; exophthalmic goitre; it is opposed' to the athyrea of myxoedema. See Thyroid Gland, Medical (Exophthalmic Goitre). Hyperthyroidism.—A state of dis- turbed action of the thyroid gland, leading probably to hypersecretion; the cause of exoph- thalmic goitre. Hypertonia.—Increase in the muscular tone as shown by exaggerated tendon-jerks; muscular irritability. See Tendon - Jerks (Nature). HypertonuS.—Excessive tonic contrac- tion of an artery, as shown by thickening of the arterial wall and diminution in the lumen. See Arteries, Diseases of (Arterial Hypertonus). Hypertrichosis.—Excessive hairiness. See HiRSUTiES; X-Rays (Rontgen Ray Thera- peutics). Hypertrophy. Definition ..... 285 Factors influencing Growth and Hyper- trophy ..... 286 Clinical Varieties 286 1. Compensatory or Functional. 287 2. Due to Irritation 288 3. Pathological . . . . 288 4. Unilateral (Congenital) 288 5. Giantism (Macrosomia) 289 Pseudo-Hypertrophy . . . . 290 Treatment ...... 290 See also Acromegaly ; Fcetus and Ovum, Development (Decidua); Gastro - Intestinal Disorders op Infancy (Congenital Hypertrophy of the Pylorus); Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Hypertrophy); Mouth, Diseases op (Gums, Hypertrophy of); Muscles, Diseases of (Idio- pathic Muscular Hypertrophy); Pregnancy, Physiology (Local Changes, Hypertrophy of Uterus, Cervix, Abdo7ninal Walls, Breasts, and Heart); Pregnancy, Pathology of (Affections of Ovum and Decidua, Hypertrophy of Decid^ia); Prostate Gland (Hypertrophy) ; Spleen, Medical Affections of (Enlargement); Stomach, Surgical (Pyloric Obstruction); Teeth (Hyper- trophy of Pulp); Thyroid Gland, Medical (Goitre). By hypertrophy is meant an increase in the size of an organ or tissue beyond the ordinary limits, the increase taking place along the lines of physiological growth. It may be defined in the following terms : " Hypertrophy of an organ or tissue expresses that condition where its normal bulk is universally augmented by an additional number or by increased dimension of its tissue elements without deposition of foreign sub- stances" (Hamilton). It may therefore be