48 HEMORRHAGE It is safer in every instance to tie the ligature with sufficient force to ensure rupture of the middle and internal coats of the vessel. When an artery is completely divided, both the proximal and distal ends require ligation. Should an artery be incompletely divided, it should be cut right across after a ligature has been applied on either side of the bleeding point. The object in view in this procedure is to allow of retraction and contraction of the severed ends of the vessel. Treatment of Reactionary Haemorrhage.— Unless due to the slipping of a ligature this amounts to nothing more than compression of oozing vascular points. Treatment of Secondary H/EMORRHAge.— This is a subject of sufficient importance to demand special notice. 1. If the ha;morrhage is but slight it may suffice to reopen the wound, remove the blood coagulum, wash out with a hot antiseptic solu- tion, and apply a compress or stuff the wound with double cyanide gauze. 2. Should the bleeding be severe, a tourniquet must be applied, or the main artery compressed digitally. The wound must be reopened and the bleeding vessel sought for and ligated. Should this be impossible owing to the softened, sloughy state of the vessel walls, the main artery must be ligated on the proximal side of the bleed- ing point by a fresh incision through healthy tissues. 3. Should this method fail, the artery may be ligated still higher up, or in the case of an extremity the limb may be amputated. 4. In cases of even slight secondary haemor- rhage it is a wise precaution to have, in the case of a limb, a tourniquet loosely applied above the wound, so that it may, in case of a sudden gush of blood, be readily tightened by the nurse in attendance. In places where a ligature on the proximal side of the bleeding point cannot be applied, the actual cautery may be applied and the wound packed firmly with antiseptic gauze. Hsemorrhagric Diathesis. sve HiEMOPHILIA. Hsemorrhoiclal.—This term is applied to the arteries, veins, and nerves which are dis- tributed to the rectum and its neighbourhood {e.g. the hoemorrhoidal plexus) ; it also means "relating to hajmorrhoids" {q.v.). HasmorrilOidS. See Rectum, Diseases OF {ll(rniorrltoids); see also GoUT {Irregular, Circulatory System); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease, Passive Congestion of Gastro-Intestinal Tract); Liver, Diseases of {Functional, Symptoms); Malinger- ing {Digestive System, Simulation of Ummor- rhoids) ; Nep HRiTis {Chronic, Renal Cirrhosis, Symptoms); Pregnancy, Affections and Com- plications {Cardio - Vascular Disturbances) ; Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Symptoms); Stomach and Duodenum {Morbid Anatomy, Gastric Haemorrhoids) ; X - Rays {Therapeutic Applications). HaemoSCheoceie.—Distension of the scrotum with effused blood. Hsemosiaiemesis.—Vomiting of blood-stained saliva. HasmOSideri n. — An iron - containing pigment derived from the decomposition of haemoglobin in the tissues; it is said to be formed on the outside of the mass of extravasated blood, and so to differ from hfematoidin, which is formed in the inside of the mass. HsemOSporidia. See Parasites {Pro- tozoa, Hoemosporidia). Has most as is.—The arrest of haemor- rhage. Haemostatics. — Drugs or means for stopping bleeding ; styptics ; astringents ; many of them also check discharges {e.g. from the in- testine in diarrhoea and from the vagina in leu- corrhoea). See Astringents ; Copper ; Ergot ; Ferrum ; Hamamelis ; etc. etc. HaemotacilOmeter.—An instrument for estimating the velocity of the blood current (Vierordt). HasmOthorax.—The presence of effused blood within the thoracic cavity. See Aspirator, Uses OF {Therapeutic Purposes); Chest, Injuries OF (Viscera, Wounds of) ; Pleura, Diseases of {HcBinothorax) ; Pleura, Surgical Affections OF {Injuries, Hoemothorax). Ha-ffkine's Prophylactic. See Cholera, Epidemic {Prophylaxis) ; Plague (Curative and Preventive Sera and Prophylactics). Hair. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology (Epidermal Appendages) ; Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Pigmentary Anomalies of Hair); see also Alopecia ; Electrolysis (Use as a Depilatory); Fcetus and Ovum, Development OF {Lanugo); Ovaries, Diseases of {Dermoid Cysts); Physiology, Excretion by the Skin {Hair) ; Sclerodermia (Circumscribed, Mor- phoea); Skin, Parasites {Examination of Hair); Stomach, Surgical Affections {Foreign Bodies, Hair-balls); Syphilis {Secondary, Affections of Hair and JVails); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Clinical Features, Hair); Toxicology {Lead Poisoning from Hair Dyes). Hair, Downy. See Lanugo. Hair Tumours. See Stomach, Surgical Affbctions {Hair-balls).