HEMOPTYSIS 42 proving that they did not come from a mam- malian source at all. Prognosis.—Hjemoptysis is very rarely fatal. In the large proportion of cases there is a tendency to spontaneous arrest of the haemor- rhage. Dr. Samuel West states that the mortality from hfcmoptysis in phthisis is less than 3 per cent. Sometimes an hajmoptysis occui's without warning, continues for a few days, and then disappears, leaving no traces behind, and no physical signs develop. In all probability, however, there has really been in these cases a tubercular focns, which has cicatrised and healed up. Such foci at one or other apex are frequently found post-mortem. Of 4000 cases of ha;moptysis observed at Bromp- ton Hospital the quantity in 69 per cent was under 5ss. Still profuse and repeated hfemo- ptysis must always be regarded as a grave condition. The large majority of fatal cases occur in the stage of excavation, and are due to the rupture of a pulmonary aneurysm. Fatal haemoptysis is more common in males than in females, and is rare in the case of children and old people, though the writer has seen in the Royal Chest Hospital a fatal termination in the case of a child under three years of age. Dr. Reginald Thomson says that fatal htemoptysis is more common in the siunmer months—June and July. Death is due, in the majority of cases, to asphyxia from regurgitation of blood into the bronchial tubes, more particularly of tlie sound lung. The patient is practically drowned in his own blood. In a few cases death is due to syncope. As regards the influence of haemoptysis on the progress of pulmonary tuberculosis opinions vary somewhat. The laity very often regard spitting of blood in quantity as " the beginning of the end." There is certainly no clinical evidence in support of such a view. Dr. Pollock, in his Elements of Frognosis in Phthisis, says haemoptysis, even if profuse, may have no appi'eciable eiTect on the subsequent health of the individual. In not a few cases the effects seem actually beneficial. It is easy to under- stand that this is the case in htcmoptysis due to chronic pulmonary congestion by acting as a safety-valve. May it not occasionally act in a similar way in the acute pulmonary hyperaemias of pneumonia and early tuberculosis ? Certainly one frequently sees cases of recurring haemoptysis with practically no chest symptoms and little if any deterioration of the general health. Dr. Williams, after careful observation, expresses the opinion that the influence of haemoptysis in the first stage is nil, whereas haemoptysis occiu'- ring in the second and third stages curtails the average duration of the disease. It must also be remembered that a certain proportion of cases of chronic phthisis may assiniie a subacute progressive character after an haemoptysis has occurred. This, as already explained, is probably due to the onset of secondary infective broncho-pneumonia. Treatment.—The indications are twofold :— A. Promote thrombosis, which is the natural process of repair, by lowering the blood-pressure in the pulmonary artery. In this way we arrest the bleeding. B. Prevent as far as possible the regurgitation of blood into the neighbouring bronchi, and more particularly into the bronchus leading to the opposite lung; and promote its expulsion therefrom in the event of its occurrence. In this way we generally minimise the im- mediate danger of fatal asphyxia, and also prevent the later occurrence of infective broncho- pneumonia. A. Thrombosis is promoted by the following- means :—(1) Rest—Fulfils all therapeutic indica- tions, and is much the most important of the cardiac sedatives. Nothing more is required in mild cases. The syncopal condition of the patient also acts as an excellent cardiac de- pressant. Rest ought to be as absolute as possible—general, local (cardiac and respiratory), and mental. The patient is confined to bed in a cool, airy room, is kept quiet and undisturbed, is lightly clad, in severe cases is forbidden to speak above a whisper, is only asked essential questions; the cough is checked by sucking pieces of ice or by a sedative linctus. Dr. Mitchell Bruce lays stress on the mental aspect of the question, and makes a point of reassuring the patient by a few encouraging words. He is requested to lie as still as possible. In the European sanatoria ligature of the extremities is frequently carried out with the view of diminishing the influx of blood into the lungs, and so checking the haemorrhage. A special apparatus is employed, but the same eftect can be produced by a tight bandaging of the upper arms and thighs. (2) Opium—Is by far the most important drug in the treatment of haemoptysis. It acts as a cardiac and respiratory sedative and depressant, checks the cough, allays the general restlessness, soothes the mental distress and agitation, and promotes sleep. The best method of administration is by a subcutaneous injection of morphia (gr. {-gr. \), which may have to be repeated once or even twice. Some physicians recommend a combined injection of morphia (gr. \) and atropine (gr. yiy). (3) Low Diet.—Nothing is given for some hours except small pieces of ice to suck at considerable intervals, so as to prevent flatulence with its accompanying restlessness. The suck- ing of ice relieves the thirst as well as the cough, and likewise calms the patient's anxiety by giving him the feeling that something definite is being done for his relief. After a little time iced milk is given in tablespoonful doses and gradually increased in quantity. Everything must be cold. Cold milk, cold meat jelly or essence, with a little bread and butter,