366 IMMUNITY means of the antitoxin. In spite of this com- bination a sufficient amount of serum may even yet effect a cure, hence we must assume that antitoxin when present in abundance is able to withdraw the loosely combined toxin from the tissues, or to neutralise it while still there. The results hitherto gained in large animals, and especially in horses, are indeed not very favoui'able, but would undoubtedly be better were treatment begun sooner and larger doses given. In man the difficulties in the way of successful treatment of tetanus with serum are still greater, and there is no statistical proof that the results have improved since antitoxic serum was introduced. This is obviously due to the fact that by the time the first tetanic symptoms appear, the toxin has already become combined in the nervous system, and that the disturbances there can no longer be influenced by the antitoxin. The great importance of the prophylactic use of tetanus serum must there- fore be again emphasised, for in this case the antitoxin present in the body may be con- fidently expected to neutralise the toxin on its first appearance in the blood, and before it has combined with the tissue elements. The attempts to render the toxin more active by means of intra-venous injection, or by direct in- troduction beneath the dura mater (Roux), have hitherto not yielded results of practical value. Plague.—Plague serum is prepared by treating horses with increasing doses of living or killed plague cultures, and usually by means of intra- venous injections (Yersin, Roux, WladimirofF). Each injection causes fever and signs of a general reaction. A serum is finally obtained which in even somewhat small doses can protect other animals against infection with plague. At the Pasteur Institute in Paris the serum is standardised by estimating the smallest dose which can protect mice against infection twenty- four hours subsequently with the minimum lethal dose of plague bacilli. Yersin in 1897 obtained favourable results with such a plague serum, for of 500 inoculated individuals in a plague-stricken district only 5 sickened and 2 died. In 2 of these 5 cases the disease occurred so soon after the inoculation that infection had probably already occurred, and they should not be counted. The symptoms in the other 3 cases ensued twelve to forty-two days after inoculation, i.e. probably after the protective effect had expired, for we may con- clude from animal experiments that the pro- tection conferred only lasts ten to fourteen days. The experimental researches of the German Plague Commission on the immunising value of Yersin's plague serum demonstrated that by means of 10 cc. monkeys can generally be immunised against several times the minimum lethal dose. There is, however, a form of grey monkey which has a special susceptibility to plague, and in which the protective action of the serum is of no avail, and it therefore appears doubtful whether effective protection can be obtained for the human subject. The above-mentioned short duration of the protection conferred by plague serum is, how- ever, a practical drawback, which does not exist in the active immunisation with killed plague cultures. In the most urgent cases a combina- tion of active and passive immunisation— injecting killed cultures and plague serum together—would perhaps be advisable. On the therapeutic application of plague serum, reports were given by Yersin from India (1896 and 1897), which, however, require further confirmation. The German Plague Commission had the opportunity in Bombay of studying the results of serum treatment in a series of 26 individuals, whose ages varied from \\ to 60 years. They were all recent cases of simple bubonic plague, in whom the prognosis would in any case have been favourable, so that although the mortality in these cases was equal to 50 per cent, and therefore appears more favourable than the usual average mortality (80 per cent) from plague, it is no proof that the serum had a curative effect. Both the German and the Russian Plague Commissions investigated the curative effect of the serum in animals. In one breed of monkeys, which are not very susceptible to plague, a cure was effected by means of 10 cc. of serum even six and twelve hours after infection with a lethal dose of plague cultures. If the admini- stration of the serum were further delayed the result was uncertain or negative. The results will undoubtedly be better if a more potent plague serum can be prepared. The serum is not, or only to a slight degree, antitoxic; its action is mainly a specific bactericidal one, just as in animals treated with cholera and typhoid bactei-ia. The condition in plague is more a bacterial infection than an intoxication, as is also the case in anthrax, for example. Roux, however, believes that the antitoxic action of plague serum is dependent on its mode of pre- paration, and that the serum contains most antitoxin when obtained by the intravenous injection of living plague bacilli. Cholera.—In cholera, as in plague, few definite results of practical value have been obtained. It is indeed easy to obtain a specific bacteri- cidal serum by treating animals with cholera vibrios. But the value of such sera for im- munisation appears to be slight; large doses would have to be used, and in spite of them the protection would be of short duration. Behring and Ransom, Roux and Taurelli - Salimbeni attempted to isolate a toxin from cholera vibrios, and to obtain an antitoxic cholera serum by treating horses with this toxin. It is claimed that this serum protects not merely against cholera intoxication, but also against the living cholera virus. No use has as yet been made of