•287 HYPERTEOPHY upon as other than physiological ; it is, however, essentially the same as any other functional hypertrophy, e.g. of the heart in chronic renal disease, the only difference being in the cause which demands the excessive amount of work. As another instance of physiological, or almost physiological, though not compensatory hyper- trophy, senile enlargement of the [irostate may be mentioned, since, although a cause of disease, it cannot in itself be invariably considered as morbid. If we accept Hamilton's view that the term hypertrophy should be applied to a general but not to a local enlargement of an organ, as for example when we call a local increase of the gland tissue in the breast an adenoma, we may regard cases of enlarged prostate where the middle lobe is specially affected as allied to tumour growth rather than simple hypertrophies. From a clinical standpoint we may consider hypertrophy under five heads : 1. Compensatory or functional hypertrophy ; 2. Hypertrophy due to repeated irritation; 3. Pathological hyper- trophy ; 4. Unilateral (congenital) hypertrophy ; 5. Giantism. Finally, we have to consider what is meant by pseudo-hypertrophy. 1. Compensatory or functional hypertrophies occur in many organs as the result of increased work, if there be also an adequate supply of nourishment. The result of excessive functional activity is increased blood-supply, and if the blood contain proper nourishment hypertrophy will ensue; should nourishment be inadequate the organ will become exhausted and cease to function properly, and will probably waste. Compensatory hypertrophy may occur in paired organs where one is destroyed or functionally in abeyance for a prolonged period, in correlated organs under similar conditions, in single gland- ular organs where a part of the structure is extensively diseased or atrophied, and in mus- cular organs when a mechanical resistance neces- sitates an increased output of work. Examples of compensatory hypertrophy in paired organs are seen in cases of congenital absence of one kidney, and in cases of removal or long-standing disease of one of the organs. In cases of con- genital absence of a kidney the remaining organ may be double its normal size, and when the loss takes place in early life it may attain almost equal dimensions ; compensation is less complete after growth has ceased. The enlargement is due to true hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the kidney elements; an increase in the number of the glomeruli, however, occurs only in the case of congenital absence of one organ. An analo- gous compensatory hypertrophy has been observed in the lungs, suprarenal capsules, testicles, and other paired organs. A functional hypertrophy of the kidneys is sometimes seen in cases of polyuria. Thoma points out that compensatory hypertrophy may occur in paired organs where increased function cannot be assumed by the re- maining organ, e.g. after excision of one testicle in a newly-born animal. In such cases the hypertrophy may be supposed to depend on nervous influence. It must also be stated that, according to one view, enlargement of a con- genitally single kidney is to be looked upon as due to fusion of the two structures. It is also said that the enlargement of the active kidney, when the other is removed or extensively dis- eased, is due mainly to increase in the lymphatics and dilatation of the blood-vessels. Compensa- tory hypertrophy of correlated organs is seen in the glandular ei:ilargement which occurs after splenectomy, and also in the enlargement of the pituitary body which has been found after expei'imental removal of the thyroid. In cases of pressure atrophy of part of the liver (as from tight-lacing) compensatory hypertrophy of the remainder may be observed. Similarly we have enlargement of the part of the thyroid left behind after partial thyroidectomy. From a clinical point of view the most im- portant group of functional hypertrophies are those found in hollow muscular organs. Any long-continued rise in the blood-pressure will cause thickening of the muscular coats of the arteries and cardiac hypertrophy. The indivi- dual fibres of the heart muscle become enlarged, and there is as well a nimierical increase. A similar change occurs when the pressui'e in any chamber of the heart is raised, e.g. as the result of valvular disease or obstruction to the pul- monary circulation. Cardiac hypertrophy is, in fact, one of the best examples of the importance of some of the factors we have enumerated. It arises most quickly in young persons, it is seen in greatest perfection in aortic incompetence and Bright's disease, where the work of the heart is enormously increased, and we too often have opportunities of observing its failure when an insufficient quantity of nourishment is supplied, as where the coronary arteries are thickened and partially obliterated. Another important example of functional hypertrophy is that occurring in the wall of the bowel above the seat of a chronic obstruction of the lumen. This shows itself by the presence of visible peristaltic waves, and by observing the direction in which these pass, and the pat- tei-n to which they give rise, we can often form a fairly exact notion of the seat of the obstruc- tion. It is unnecessary to multiply examples of such compensatory hypertrophy; we find it in the stomach in cases of pyloric stenosis, in the bladder in cases of urethral stricture, etc. Functional hypertrophy of voluntary muscles has already been mentioned. A similar condition may arise from disease. Thus true muscular hypertrophy is met with in Thonisen's disease, where there is increased tonicity of all voluntary muscles ; it also occurs in some cases of infantile cerebral paralysis from a like cause. The rare condition described by Cowers as muscidar hypertrophy, which is associated with diminished