514 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF conduct are lost, and the patient is reduced to the infantile condition; when he is incapable of preserving himself from simple mechanical dangers; when he cannot be trusted alone in a room for fear he should fall out of his chair into the fire, or stuff into his mouth any uneat- able substance—coal, rag, or paper—within his reach ; when, like an infant, he is inattentive to the state of distension of his rectum and bladder, and passes his excretion as he sits ; or when, instead of using his activity to preserve his life, he endeavours with all his resources to put an end to it; in either case the control over him must be of the most minute and vigilant character. But the two cases are manifestly different. The one may be left to the nurse and the general physician. The other needs the utmost exertions of the most skilled attend- ants on the insane. The only chance of pre- venting a suicidal patient from carrying out his intention is incessant and minute vigilance. Even incessant vigilance is not always success- ful, but it is the only means at our disposal, and it must be employed. When the case is no longer recent; when time has been given for any acute process of disorder in the brain to subside, and the stage has arrived for attempting to restore the deficient function, and to re-educate the patient into normal modes of conduct, then control must be gradually lessened, and the patient must be encouraged and stimulated to exercise those departments of conduct of which he has been hitherto deprived. So long as the bones of a broken arm are ununited, so long must the arm be kept at rest in a splint, and its function sus- pended. So long as the valves of the heart are the subject of acute inflammation, so long must the function of the heart be minimised by keep- ing the patient in absolute rest. But as soon as the bones are united we encourage the patient to overcome the stiffness of his fingers hy using them ; as soon as the cardiac inflam- mation has subsided we encourage the patient by graduated exercise to strengthen the muscle of his heart; and as soon as the acuteness of the outbreak of insanity passes away, we should encourage the patient to resume, tentatively and intermittently at first, but with gradually increasing frequency and completeness, the con- trol of his own relations with his surroundings. It is at this time that the skill of the alienist is tested to its utmost capacity. Other General and ISj^ecial Treatment.—Leav- ing now the question of the regulation of conduct by external coercion, we enter on the considera- tion of the second branch of treatment, and ask what means we have of acting, by ingesta and in other ways, upon the disordered cerebral processes so as to bring about their restoration to the normal. We find that our knowledge of such means is much on a par with the know- ledge that Voltaire attributed to metaphysicians, —" fort pen de chose." Something, however, we have gained. Under normal circumstances the great re- storer of the function of the highest regions of the brain is sleep. Towards the end of every day sets in an exhaustion of these regions which, if pushed to extreme, exhibits itself in disorder. No one is as active, as alert, as mentally com- petent, after a sleepless night as after a night of sound sleep; and the persistent deprivation of sleep of itself leads to great disorder. To this we add the knowledge that in all cases of acute and recent insanity sleep has recently been defective, and thus we gain a clear and indisputable indication for treatment in all such cases. Measures must be taken for the induc- tion of sleep. And the propriety of the indica- tion for treatment is shown by the result. Until sleep is induced improvement does not take place. When sleep is induced, improve- ment does, as a rule, occur. How, then, is sleep to be induced ? The obvious reply is by the administration of an hypnotic drug, and for many years the routine administration of opium in recent cases of insanity was followed, and the natural consequences were such that a reaction, as unreasonable as the practice, set in against the administration of all hypnotics whatever, and a most pernicious maxim gained currency that " chemical restraint is as bad as mechanical restraint." It is difficult to say which part of this question-begging statement is the most to be condemned, whether the false analogy be- tween sleep and restraint, or the implication that mechanical restraint is, ipso facto, and in all cases, bad. If a patient is sleepless ; and if I have a drug the administration of which will produce sleep; and if after the sleep so pro- duced the patient is better, is more normal both in mind and conduct; am I to be precluded from the administration because of the stupid and unjustifiable statement that I am restrain- ing my patient by chemical means? Such slavery to a form of words would be unworthy of the most narrow-minded pedant that ever exercised his degraded ingenuity in Westminster Hall. But is it a fact that sleep so produced is ever beneficial 1 I affirm with the utmost certainty that it is; and I go farther, and say that by the administration of drugs we have the power in certain cases of converting a furious maniac into a comparatively sane man; of reducing his maniacal fury down to mere restlessness, and even to tranquillity; and of free- ing his mind, temporarily at any rate, from the delusions to which it was subject. This may be "chemical restraint," if we please to call it so, and if it be, let us be heartily thankful that the resources of modern pharmacology have placed such a means of restraint at our service. Of course it will be said that I advocate the indiscriminate and excessive use of hypnotics in every case of insanity. How far this accusa-