35 HEMOGLOBINURIA extent obscure, and that no theory of its causa- tion which has as yet been put forward affords a full and satisfactory explanation of the observed phenomena. Treatment.—Removal of the patient from the conditions which provoke the attacks is one of the prime desiderata in the treatment of the disease, and, when circumstances permit, resi- dence in a climate in which no extremes are encountered, or at least a winter sojourn in a warm climate, is clearly indicated, and may serve to procure complete immunity. In the majoritj' of instances measures directed to the cure of the disease, and to enabling the patient to encounter exposure to cold Avith impunity, have less satisfactory results. A complete cure has occasionally been brought about by anti- syphilitic treatment in the hands of Murri and others, and good effects have sometimes followed the administration of quinine in full doses. In the treatment of the individual paroxysms warmth is indicated, and a warm bed and warm drinks add greatly to the comfort of the patient, even if they do not curtail the attack. The administration of nitrite of amyl, which Chvostek found effectual in cutting short the paroxysm, should receive a trial, but as the hfemolysis occurs at so early a stage, it is obvious that, if it is to produce any effect, it must be given at the very first onset of the symptoms. Nitro- glycerine might also prove of service as a pro- phylactic. Copeman recommends the avoidance of alcoholic drinks on account of the temporary dilatation of the superficial capillaries which they produce, which may bring about a slight lowering of the body temperature. Hcemoglobinuria from Exertion.—The cases in which hsemoglobinuria is induced by muscular exertion are few in number, but of great interest. As they differ in certain not imimportant respects from the ordinary cases of paroxysmal htemo- globinuria, they are best considered provisionally as constituting a separate group. Examples have been recorded by Fleischer, Kast, Robin, Koster, Lee Dickinson, and others. In some instances at any rate the attacks are frequently repeated, and may be set up even by a very moderate exertion, in others a single attack follows a severe muscular strain, such as is involved in running a three-mile race. It has been demonstrated in some cases that such exposure to cold as might be expected to induce a paroxysm in an ordinary case of paroxysmal htemoglobinuria was not capable of producing such an effect, even when an attack followed a modei-ate walk. Perhaps the most curious feature of these cases is the apparent powerlessness of other forms of exertion than those involving leg-work to induce the attacks. Marching, walking, running, and in one of Lee Dickinson's cases a hard game of lawn tennis, are the recorded causes, and a patient who develops hsemo- globinuria after a walk may be able to exert himself at wood-chopping with impunity. An- other noteworthy feature is that the attendant symptoms which are usually so prominent in paroxysmal ha3moglobinuria are usually absent, and the abnormal coloration of the urine may alone attract attention. Roster's patient, how- ever, complained of coldness of the exti'emities, chills, and slight headache, but showed no febrile disturbance. This observation is opposed to the view which attributes many of the atten- dant symptoms to hsemoglobinsemia, but the difference may be merely one of degree, for in some of the exertion cases the amount of hsemolysis, as evidenced by the condition of the urine, seems to have been comparatively slight. In a case described by Bastianelli albuminuria without hfemoglobinuria was observed after exertion on some occasions. Roster's patient, who had acquired syphilis four years previously, recovered completely under antisyphilitic treatment, and in Robin's case recovery followed treatment by rest, tonics, and a restricted diet. In this latter instance, before recovery was complete, exertion which would formerly have induced hfemoglobinuria caused only slight albuminuria. Hsemog'lobinuric Fever. See Blackwater Fever; Tropics,UnclassedFevers OF {Fevers of Mixed Origin). Haemohydronephrosis.—A cystic condition of the kidney, the contents of the dilated cavities being blood and \n-ine. Hsemokonia. — This term (Gr. atjua, blood, and Kovia, dust) has been applied to small refi'active bodies found in the blood and ascribed to the breaking down of the corpuscles; blood-dust. Hasmol.—A deoxidation product of hsemo- globin, used in anaemia; htemogallol. See Chlorosis {Treatment, Special). Hsemolymph Glands.—Organs in- termediate between lymphatic glands and the spleen ; they consist of lymphatic glands with large blood sinuses round them; and they are found in certain animals. They produce lympho- cytes, store up iron, and dispose of disintegrat- ing corpuscles. See Physiology, Blood {Source of the Blood Constituents). HaemolysinS. — Blood - dissolving prin- ciples. See Haemolysis ; Immunity. Haemolysis.—The process of breaking down old red blood corpuscles and eliminating their pigment, which goes on in the liver, and possibly also in the spleen and other organs and tissues. See Physiology, Blood {Fate of the Blood Constituents) ; also Hfemoglobinuria {De- finition) ; Immunity.