HEART, SURGERY OF 163 it should not be left there, unless it be so small that it might not be found after incision of the pericardium. In most of the published cases, it has not been necessary to do more than incise the superficial structures ; nor has any serious bleeding followed the withdrawal of the foreign body. Again, cases of gunshot wound need not here be considered; for though a case of surgical interference has been published by Riedel, and another by Podrez, yet such an operation must ever be one of the rarest possibilities of surgery; nor did their methods of procedure differ in any material way from those that have been used in cases of punctured or incised wounds made with a knife. It is these stabs over the heart that have offered most opportui:iity for treatment by opera- tion—the cases of Farina, Cappelen, Tassi, Rehn, Parrozani, and others. And, before operating, the surgeon has to face the fact that some un- doubted cases of wound of the heart have re- covered without operation. The older methods of treatment, absolute rest, without moving or speaking, real "immobilization," ice applied over the heart, low diet, and copious venesection— these methods did sometimes succeed. Nothing but hourly watching, and seeing evidence of steadily increasing pressure on the heart, and blood accumulating in the pleura, and the patient going in spite of treatment from bad to worse, justifies operation. In a case of stab-wound of the heart, it is not likely that the surgeon need be afraid of wound- ing the pleura. Practically, he may be certain that he will find it already opened, and with blood poured into it. The internal mammary artery he may find divided, or may divide it, or may not come across it. The incision through the skin and the muscles has been made different ways, according to the position of the wound ; either a long curved incision, or a flap. The cartilages resected have been, in most cases, either the fifth, or the fourth and fifth together. And, by whatever method, the surgeon must work freely, through a space large enough to let him see what needs to be done. It has been recommended that the wound in the pleura should be at once closed, and the pleura pushed outward, out of the way. But, in practice, the opposite has been done; the wound in the pleura has been freely enlarged, the blood and clots have been washed out so thoroughly as the case permitted, and the peri- cardium has been dealt with through the pleura. The surgeon has found the wound of the peri- cardium, with blood running out of it, has enlarged it, and secured its edges with catch forceps. There are, of coiu-se, cases where the peri- cardium has been opened, and no wound found on the heart (Tassi, Williams, Dalton). In Mr. Mansell MouUin's case {Lancet, 1897, i. 314) the patient had been kicked over the heart; the pericardium was opened, found full of blood, and drained, and he made an excellent recovery. In a few cases a wound of the heart has been seen, but so small as not to need suture. In other cases the wound has been sutured with fine silk and a fine curved needle. From one to four sutures have been placed ; and the ends of the first suture have been lightly held, to make it easier to pass the next. Cappelen passed, and tied, his sutures during the systole of the heart; Rehn, during its diastole. In some cases the pericardium has been drained; in some, it has been closed at once. The hsemothorax may give rise, many days afterward, to the need of an operation to drain the pleura. Hea,t. See Balneology (Effects of Heat); Disinfection {Heat as a Disinfectant); Fcetus AND Ovum, Development of {Temperature of Fcetus); Invalid Feeding ; Medicine, Forensic (Burns, Heat-Stiffening); Physiology, Food and Digestion (Production and Elimination of Heat); Sunstroke ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of (Heat Apoplexy, Insolation); Ventilation and Warming. Hea.t Fever. See Sunstroke. Hea.t i ng'. See Ventilation and Warming. Hea.t Stroke. See Sunstroke. Heberden's Nodes.—Tubercles or small hard knobs which develop on the phalanges of the fingers in arthritis deformans, etc. See Gout (Chro7iic Deforming Gout, Nodi Digitorum); Joints, Diseases of (Arthritis Deformans sicca); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis (Monoarticular, Morbid Anatomy). Hebetude-—Dulness of intellect or men- tal obtuseness; Hebetudoanimi is imbecility. See Mental Deficiency. HebOtomy.—Lateral section (by Gigli's wire-saw) of the pubes for the purpose of temporarily enlarging the pelvic brim (in cases of contracted pelvis) to allow of the passage of the foetal head and trunk ; the term is derived from the Greek "Hf^yj, Hebe, the pubes being the bone of Hebe; the operation was revived by Gigii of Florence in 1902 ; pubiotomy or pubotomy. See Labour, Operations, Sym- physiotomy. Hectic Fever.—A condition in which the temperature rises daily (in the afternoon and evening) to 104° or 105° F., and is sub- normal in the morning; it is associated with suppuration, tuberculosis, etc. See Suppuration (Acute Circumscribed Abscess, Clinical Features, Constitutional, Pyrexia, Hectic).