« » INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 545 there are borborygmi and attacks of colicky pain. Vomiting does not occur until late. A series of masses, which are not tender, and which are hard and movable, may be felt in the course of the colon. There is frequently foetid diarrhoea from the irritation of the mucous membrane of the intestine by hard putrid col- lections. Tenesmus is marked when the hard lumps pass into the rectum. Rectal examina- tion may reveal scybala there, and help the diagnosis. Purgatives and enemata may not for some time remove the swellings and relieve the symptoms. This form of obstruction is un- fortunately regarded as common, and it must be borne in mind that it is easier to mistake malignant masses for hard fseces than the reverse. Cancer and stricture are usually confounded because the form which cancer takes is fre- quently annular, and the intestine is in reality strictured by it. In a patient over forty years of age cancer should be suspected. A tumour at the ileo-ceecal valve, or the hepatic or splenic flexures, or in the sigmoid, may be discovered. In women a vaginal examination should seldom be omitted. The sigmoid flexure with a malig- nant growth in it, from its weight will sink into the lower part of the pelvis, and may be felt there from the vagina, lying at the bottom of the pouch of Douglas. Attention to this point has more than once enabled me to make a definite diagnosis of malignant stricture of the sigmoid flexure. The tumour, if rounded, hard, and nodular, as it frequently is, closely resembles an enlarged and prolapsed ovary. In men a similar tumour of the sigmoid may fall into the lower part of the recto-vesical pouch, and can be recognised by a finger in the rectum, most easily when the patient is standing upright. As a rule constipation is the first symptom. It yields to purgatives in the early stages, but gradually becomes more obstinate, when it may last for some days, and be finally relieved by a purgative and enemata. A very suggestive history is that purgatives caused so much in- testinal commotion as to produce rumbling and fluid-dropping sounds loud enough to be heard by any one in close proximity to the patient. Pain in all chronic cases is characterised by its severe paroxysmal character, and is attended by visible intestinal movements along with the rumblings. After the pain has gone the patient may feel well for weeks or months, but as time goes on the attacks become more frequent and more severe. Towards the end it is usual to have sickness and vomiting. In malignant cases sometimes there is blood found in the stools, which are also loose and foetid. If this occurs late in the history of the case it means ulcera- tion of the growth, and possibly is attended by greater freedom in the passage of the intestinal contents following this destructive process. In simple stricture a history leading to the VOL. IV diagnosis of tuberculosis, syphilis, dysentery, or typhoid may be obtained, or that the symptoms were preceded by a violent contusion of the abdomen, or by a strangulated hernia. There is a history of attacks of pain usually occurring after food, and frequently attended by vomiting. Associated with these are rumblings of wind and attacks of constipation, or alternately diarrhoea and constipation. The paroxysms become more frequent, vomiting and constipation more severe, and abdominal distension with vigoi'ous peristaltic movements develop. If a tumour is feltj at the ileo-ceecal valve it is difficult to say whether it is tuberculous or cancerous, or due to chronic intussusception. A tuberculous tumour, ill-defined and caky, gener- ally occurs in young subjects with the pallor and weakness that are suggestive of the con- stitutional feebleness common in tuberculous subjects. It is accompanied or preceded by diarrhoea, and there is frequently a nocturnal rise of temperature, with night sweats. Other evidence of tuberculous taint may be available —the scars of old suppurating neck glands or changes in one or other lung, or the scars of some tuberculous skin, bone, or joint affection. The cancerous tumour, hard and nodular at the ileo-CEecal valve, occurs in elderly subjects, and is preceded and accompanied by constipation, because of the obstruction which the growth located at the valve causes to the passage of intestinal contents. Occasionally blood will be passed per rectum. The patient may have the cachectic appearance associated in the minds of so many with cancer, but it is quite as common to find the look of robust health. In chronic intussusception there is intei-- mittent pain; during the intervals the patient may be quite easy. There are muco-sanguino- lent motions and tenesmus, and a cylindrical tumour softer than the cancerous or tuberculous one, and perhaps hard at one time, soft at another, and altering in position. Vomiting is not a marked symptom. The bowels are regular, or there may be diarrhoea. There is no general swelling of the abdomen. The patient gradually gets thinner and weaker, and this it is which frequently suggests that the disease is cancer. Strictures both simple and malignant may become occasionally blocked by hard faeces or foreign bodies, and the patient then develops acute symptoms. Chronic obstruction, due to adhesions, is suggested by a previous history of peritonitis, possibly tuberculous, or consequent upon pelvic disease, or following an appendicitis. In such cases the symptoms are apt in the early stages to be badly characterised ; they develop slowly, and run a course which shows the difficulty of drawing the artificial distinction which we have attempted to do between acute and chronic obstruction. At either end the distinctions are 35