HEMOPTYSIS 41 rent in the wall of the artery or aneurysm has only undergone partial repair. It may be here noted that it is quite possible for a fatal hajmorrhage to occur into a large cavity without any blood being expectorated at all. As regards the examination of the chest it is very important to remember that for some time after a severe haemoptysis the patient should be disturbed as little as possible. He should not be asked to take a deep breath or to cough or speak, and the chest should on no account be percussed. The lungs may be auscultated during tranquil respiration Avithout risk. In addition to the signs of the accompanying lung disease one can often hear fine moist crepitant rales over the area of effusion, and, according to Laennec, these are frequently audible in the vicinity of (just above) the roots of the lungs. These may persist for some days, or even weeks. Differential Diagnosis.—A. Differentiation of the various causal Conditions that lead to Haemoptysis.—They are as a rule readily dis- tinguished by their associated symptoms and clinical features. Owing to its extremely frequent occurrence in connection with phthisis the presumption in the absence of heart disease is always in favour of tuberculosis, even although no physical signs of pulmonary disease can be detected. On the other hand, if a presystolic murmur is heard at the cardiac apex we can generally dismiss all idea of phthisis, as mitral stenosis and pulmonary tuberculosis very rarely coexist. The following points may also be noted :—The sputum in acute pneumonia has the well-known rusty colour; in gangrene it frequently resembles pi-une juice ; in carcinoma it has been likened to red currant jelly; in pul- monary oedema it consists of a sero-sanguineous fluid; in brown induration of the lung, and in a pulmonary apoplexy of some standing, it may be of a dark brown colour, owing to the presence of hsematoidin crystals. B. Diagnosis from other HcBmorrhages.—(1) Hoematemesis.—In haematemesis there is usually a history of dyspepsia, and there is often accompanying pain in the epigastrium. The blood is acid in reaction from admixture with gastric juice; it is dark in colour, and more or less altered by the gastric juice. It is preceded by nausea, and comes up with vomiting, and may be mixed with food. The blood is brought up all at once, and not in successive mouthfuls; faintness often precedes the haemorrhage; sub- sequent cofFee-ground vomit and tarry motions. In haemoptysis, on the other hand, there is often an antecedent history of cough or other pulmonary symptoms. The blood comes up with coughing. It is alkaline in reaction, is bright red and frothy, and mixed with mucus. There are often air-bubbles in the coagulum; there are occasionally blood moulds of the smaller bronchi. It is preceded often by a tickling sensation in the throat; is generally followed for some days by stained sputum (this is probably the most important diagnostic point); the haemoptysis is generally repeated ; microscopic examination may reveal tubercle bacilli, elastic fibres, or pulmonary epithelium. (In primary haemoptysis the expectorated blood should always be stained for bacilli.) The following points must be noted in order to guard against possible fallacies :—The act of vomiting may excite coughing, and vice versa; there may be no cough at the first appearance of haemoptysis; blood from the lungs may be swallowed, producing secondary haematemesis and melaena ; and haematemesis may occur from rupture of varicose veins at the lower end of oesophagus as a symptom of hepatic cirrhosis. (2) Epistaxis. — In nasal haemorrhage blood may pass back into the pharynx and be ex- pectorated. Anterior and posterior rhinoscopy may be necessary to decide whether the haemor- rhage arises in the nose or posterior nasal space. Haemoptysis has been known to occur in con- nection with undue vascularity of the inferior turbinated bones without epistaxis. (3) Hcemorrhage from Throat or hack of Tongue.—Haemoptysis to any extent from this cause is very rare. Streaks of blood are occa- sionally o})served in the expectoration accom- panying some minor diseases of the pharynx. Sometimes the presence of blood in the mouth on rising from sleep has been observed in varix of the tongue, mouth, and pharynx. In this connection it may be noted that real hfemoptysis in childhood is rare, even in ca.jes of pulmonary tuberculosis. When a young child does spit up blood it is generally owing to the violence of the coughing, as in the paroxysms of whooping- cough, and often comes from the throat, nose, or gums, and occasionally from an ulcer of the frenum linguae. (4) tipurioihs U(smoptysis and Malingering.—- Neurotic anaemic girls often speak of finding blood on their pillows on waking, or of their mouths being filled with blood in the morning. They acquire the habit of sucking their cheek or gums. The latter are seen to be pale, spongy, and exuding blood. The sputum in these cases is generally, according to Dr. Wagner, of a pale red colour, not so bright as in ordinary haemoptysis, and on settling some- times presents a reddish-brown sediment. The blood is mixed with saliva, but contains no cylindrical or ciliated epithelium. The blood only appears in the morning, and there arc no physical signs in the lungs. Malingerers may produce blood in the same way, or may actually add blood derived from another source. The late Professor Hughes Bennett discovered a case of malingering by examination of the blood with the microscope. The corpuscles were oval instead of round, thus