402 INFANT FEEDING from the risk of producing the cachectic con- dition which may result from prolonged feeding with sterilised milk, and, to a less degree, from the use of overboiled milk, is at least open to doubt. Sterilisation means, properly speaking, the destruction of all bacteria and spores, so that milk thus treated will keep indefinitely. This is accomplished by subjecting the milk to pro- longed boiling in the usual way for an hour or more, or by the use of superheated steam. For domestic purposes an apparatus exactly similar to that used for pasteurising is most convenient; the temperature, however, is raised to 212° for not less than forty minutes. Although in most cases this will render the milk completely sterile, it does not necessarily do so, the spores of some micro-organisms resist such a tempera- ture for a much longer time. Such a method of preservation is now widely practised for commercial purposes; sterilised milk can be obtained in most towns, and it is to be remembered that "humanised milk," as sold in the shops, is also sterilised. These sterilised preparations are very useful where, for any reason, for example in travelling, it is impossible to obtain fresh milk. In some cases, also, sterilised milk seems to be more easily digested than milk prepared in other ways, and some observers have obtained good results by feeding infants on undiluted milk which has been heated to 212° F. for forty minutes. But what has been said of overboiled milk applies with much greater force to milk sterilised by prolonged exposure to a high temperature. The writer's experience has convinced him that the prolonged use of sterilised milk is respon- sible, not only for that comparatively rare condition which we recognise as fully developed scurvy, but also for the less rare but not less important condition of malnutrition and cachexia which has been described above. In the present state of our knowledge it is impossible to explain why only a limited number of the cases fed thus develop these untoward symptoms, but it is very important that their relation to such feeding should be recognised. To sum up, one may say that either heating just to the boiling-point, or pasteurisation, is much to be preferred to sterilisation, using this term in its strict sense. All these methods of preparation are to be regarded as necessary evils, not as virtues in themselves. The ideal to be aimed at is not the destruction of micro- organisms by processes which may, and almost certainly do, diminish the nutritive value of the milk, but the prevention of such contamination by properly regulated sanitation in cow-sheds and in the purveying of milk. Lastly, it may be pointed out that no method of preparation can make a bad milk good; a milk which is "only slightly turned " remains unfit for infant food whatever may be done to it, and a milk which is poor in fat does not become any the richer by being "sterilised." Subsequent Care of the Milk.—Whatever precautions are taken in preparing the milk, it must be remembered that if exposed to the air afterwards it quickly becomes contaminated again with micro-organisms, and decomposes quite as rapidly, if not more rapidly than fresh milk. The jug in which it is placed should be cleansed with boiling water just before and after use, and, so long as the milk is in it, should be kept covered in a cool place. A better way is to use bottles properly cleansed with boiling water, which can be stoppered with sterilised wool, or with some tight-fitting stopper. In many of the special forms of apparatus now sold for pasteurising or sterilising, the milk to be prepared is already placed in feeding-bottles stoppered with wool or special stoppers, so that it is only necessary to replace the stopper by a teat when the infant is to be fed. Feeding-Bottles and their Use.—The best form of bottle is the boat-shaped feeder, to one end of which a teat is directly attached. A rubber tube is to be avoided, it is almost impossible to clean it thoroughly, it becomes coated with stale milk and bacteria, and is a fruitful source of danger. Before and after use the bottle should always be well washed with boiling water, and in the intervals between feeds both bottle and teat should be kept in water to which a good pinch of borax has been added. The teat especially must be carefully cleansed, the inside is apt to become foul. Recently a mere conical cap which can be turned inside out for cleansing purposes has come into use, but it has the practical disadvantage that it lacks a shield, and a vigorous baby will some- times nearly choke itself by cramming the whole of the teat into its mouth. The size of the holes in the teat is a matter of some importance. Vomiting is sometimes due to the use of a teat in which the holes are so large that the child gets its food too quickly. On the other hand, the writer was recently con- sulted by an anxious mother on account of the supposed sudden failure of appetite in her infant. After sucking at the bottle a few minutes it would cry fretfully and refuse it. Examination of the teat, which was a new one, showed that the holes were so small that it was only just possible by very forcible sucking to get any milk through. Enlargement of these with a pin speedily set matters right. It makes little difference whether the holes are simple round punctures or of leech-bite shape so long as the child can draw the milk at a suitable rate. The milk should be warmed to about 100° F. just before the meal; this may be done by standing the bottle, up to the level of the surface of the milk, in a jar of water as hot as the hand can comfortably bear for about five