HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF 69 how the human foetus in its development is an epitome of the process in vertebrates lower than man in the scale of being. He also suggests that the unity of the process may extend to still lower creatures. Support is found to the truth of this contention by a comparison of the de- velopment and anatomy of the heart of the higher vertebrates already given, with the characters and conditions of the heart in the non-vertebrate and lower vertebrate animals. In the lowest organisms which take in solid food the nutritive material is mainly distributed from the digestive spaces directly into the proto- plasm of the body [Elements of Comparative ihiatomy, by Carl Gegenbaur, translated by F. Jeffrey Bell, p. 50, 1878). The next step in differentiation , is the .existence of a distinct digestive tube, through the walls of which nutriment passes into the body protoplasm. A little higher and we find the mid-siibstance or mesoderm of the organism containing a cavity — the coelum—distinct both from its digestive tube and outer layer or ectoderm. The coelam contains a fluid which changes its position during alterations in the configuration of the organism as a whole. Gegenbaur suggests that this is to be regarded as the first indication of a circulating nutritive fluid [loc. cit.). Later, canalicular cavities regularly arranged form the prototype of a vascular system, which a little later still open into a perienteric space, and we then reach the confines of the completely shut off heart and vascular system of vertebrates. This progress in development is well shown by a series of vascular apparatus figured by Gegen- baur to illustrate the circulation in Mollusca {op. cit. p. 368). These show the transition from a rhythmically contracting tube sending its contents anteriorly and posteriorly, to one receiving fluid posteriorly and transmitting it anteriorly as in the mammalian heart, the re- ceiving cavities being the prototypes of the auricles, the transmitting of the ventricles. Between these two divisions and distinguished by the direction given to the circulating fluid, there is the remarkable phenomenon evinced by the Tunicata of a rhythmical vascular system propelling its contents for a time entirely in one, and theia after a short pause by a process of reversed rhythmicality in the opposite direc- tion (Gegenbaur, op. cit. p. 406). It is, however, the persistent characteristics of the heart in the craniote vertebrates which have most interests for students of the circulation and its disorders in man, inasmuch as some of these off"er us types of those malformations which occur in the foetal heart from arrest in development of, or occlusions taking place in portions of the heart, during the various phases of its growth. The determining factor in the development of the heart in the Craniota appears to be the situation of the organs in which blood already used by the body is aerated for further use. When such organs, as in the case of fishes the gills, are, so to speak, outside the body, that is, directly exposed to external aerating conditions, it is manifest that the oxygenated blood re- turned to the body requires only a single- chamber system for its reception and propul- sion within the body. We find, therefore, in fishes, that the heart consists of a single auricle and ventricle. In the amphibia, the characters of the heart in fishes persist to the same ex- tent as the subaqueous habits of the amphibian. The nearer members of this class are to the fish in habits the more do their hearts resemble that of the fish. That is, although the auricle is divided more or less by bands, the two auricles, if they can be so regarded, still com- municate freely, and in addition to the ventricle is even less divided. It is, indeed, practically one chamber. The efiferent tube is still an aortic or arterial bulb, a branchial system of arteries still exists, as well as pulmonary arteries, and, finally, a ductus arteriosus estab- lishes communication between the pulmonaiy artery and aorta, as in the case of the mam- malian foetus. The heart of the reptile shows a farther step in differentiation. The auricles are distinct, as also in great measui-e are the ventricles. In the crocodile the ventricular partition is com- plete. In those members of the group in which this separation is not perfect, as in the snake and the turtle, the communicating deficiency at the base of the ventricular septum is so ob- structed by a strong muscular valve-like struc- ture as to leave arterial blood in the left and venous blood in the right chambers of the heart. The blood is, moreover, directed by this arrange- ment, the arterial into the systemic arteries, and the venous into the pulmonary vessels. In some persistent malformations of the mam- malian heart the reptilian heart is well i-epre- sented. In birds, as in mammals, which exist chiefly in air (for the diving bird and the diving mammal (whale) must rise to breathe) the auricles and ventricles are completely divided, and the chambers are more capacious than in creatures lower in the scale of being. The difference between birds and mammals is rather in the character of one of the valves than in the chambers of the heart. The right auriculo- ventricular orifice in the bird is guarded by a strong muscular falciform fold or curtain. This is attached to the anterior wall of the right ventricle, and follows pretty accurately the curve of the conus arteriosus. The right vent- ricle as a whole is small, and is wrapped round the large and powerful left ventricle. The physiological significance of these conditions is interesting, and probably related to the regula- tion of the venous supply to the lungs under ' the very varying conditions of pulmonary infla- tion in flight and in repose.