134 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM where : it is probable, too, that the mode of production is not always one and the same. In a case of evident muscle failure of the heart— say due to alcoholism—this murmur may be the only murmur present, and it is difficult to deny its definite association with the muscle failure and consequent cardiac disability. No one will deny the element of muscle failure in most cases of ansemia. The murmur as an entirely isolated phenomenon, as met with, for instance, in ap- parently healthy candidates for the public services, is more difficult of interpretation. The practical rule, however, must be that a systolic murmur in the pulmonary area is the murmur of lowest value among all the murmurs with which clinical practice has made iis familiar. Occurring in a case of evident muscle failure, it adds little information to that already acquired in other directions, but on the other hand one must not neglect the murmur altogether, seeing that it is not rarely associated with conditions of cardiac disability. Mitral Incompetence as a Result of Muscle Failure.—One of the most common results of muscle failure of the heart—and this quite independently of its pathological cause—is mitral incompetence that is in no way associated with any lesion of the valves. Mitral incompetence of this mechanism is met with mider many morbid conditions, of which we will take only two as examples: the heart failure of anfemia and the heart failure of Bright's disease—the one curable, the other sooner or later lethal from concomitant circumstances, though capable of grpat and prolonged improvement from time to time during its course. The murmur of mitral incompetence present in the former cases was for long misinterpreted, while that present in the latter cases was for as long practically ignored, though the obvious signs of a failing heart were only too striking in the forms of dyspnoDa, dropsy, and engorged liver, not to speak of the distension and pulsation of the veins of the neck and a host of minor indications. Physiologists a long time ago recognised what they termed "the safety-valve" action of the tricuspid apparatus, by which term they denoted the fact that under excess of work to be done by the contraction of the right ventricle, the healthy tricuspid valves may permit regurgita- tion taking place, and so relieve for the moment embarrassment of the ventricle. It is known now that the same occurrence is common, and of much greater importance on the left side of the heart. When the arterial pressure is high, and the left ventricle labouring to maintain the circulation, it is now a familiar fact that the mitral valves often become incompetent, and that, too, in all probability for the immediate if not for the permanent benefit of the individual. Muscle Failure of the Heart.—The considera- tion of mitral incompetence necessarily leads us on to the consideration of muscle failure of the heart in general, of which it is so often a secondary consequence. Probably in no case of mitral incompetence can it be said, however grave the structural damage to the curtains, that either the incompetence or the disturbance of the general circulation is solely the result of such structural damage, for invariably associated with this latter is an element of muscle failure that we cannot possibly aflbrd to ignore. But there are cases of muscle failure that run their course and display all the ordinary indications of a failing circulation without ever developing, as far as we know, the condition of mitral in- competence. Of a silent mitral incompetence we know nothing, and considering the great frequency of the condition as denoted by its murmur, it seems likely that a silent regurgita- tion through the mitral curtains is a pure assumption having no basis in fact. How then is to be explained the unquestion- able occurrence of venous stasis and its usual effects as the result of muscle failure of the heart without any evidence of mitral incompetence from first to last of a long course ? Evidently the explanation of the fact is amply provided for by the clearly established fact that an over- burdened ventricle—be it right or left—has another mode of expressing its embarrassment than that obtained by the permission of in- competence of its auriculo-ventricular valves. The occurrence was long ago recognised (only an unfortunate name — asystole — naturally associ- ated with most lethal significance, was given it, and the frequency of its establishment ignored), and consists of the non-completion of systole. In health the supra-papillary space of the ventricle, i.e. immediately below the valves, always contains blood at the end of systole, but with this ex- ception the chamber is normally emptied. When there is muscle failure, however, residual blood may remain at the end of systole elsewhei'e than in the supra-papillary space. If any one has doubt as to the truth of this statement, let him look at the heart post-mortem in a case of muscle failure with huge roiuided dilatation of the left ventricle, and ask himself how long he can suppose it is since such a ventricle completed its systole in the physiological way. To denote this condition of incomplete systole, on the advice of a scholarly friend, the writer has used the term systole catalectic, implying that the systole stops short of its completion. One would natm-ally suppose that the same muscle failure that occasions systole catalectic would also occasion mitral incompetence, but as a matter of clinical experience this does not seem to be necessarily the case, though the two con- ditions are no doubt commonly coincident. There are two auscultatory signs of very different nature, that are so commonly associated with muscle failure of the heart as evidently to bear definite relationship to it: one of these is so frequently met with imder other circumstances