HEADACHE 61 haemorrhoids are the cause these must have suitable treatment. In every case of severe headache the patient should be put to rest, with all sources of peri- pheral irritation removed; ladies often find relief from loosing down the hair. In some fevers and inflammatory conditions the hair should be removed, and cold applied either by means of Leiter's coil or an ice-bag. The ice- bag should not be kept constantly applied, but intermittently ; continuous application produces severe pain. Headache due to the congestion of frontal sinuses in catarrh and influenza is best relieved not by cold, but by the frequent application of very hot compresses to the fore- head. In simple congestive headache the patient should be put to rest with the head high, a mustard foot-bath, a mustard blister, or tur- pentine stupe to the nape of neck, a saline aperient, and if the heart be acting violently, small doses of tincture of aconite repeated fre- quently till relief. Headache due to chronic congestion has occa- sionally been cured by free epistaxis, therefore local blood-letting by leeches may in such cases be tried. Occasionally a cantharides blister to the nape of neck has relieved when other measures have failed. Any heart condition causing passive congestion should be treated. In headache due to anaemia, we have also to do with debility of nerve-centres from mal- nutrition, therefore fatigue and exertion are to be avoided, rest in the recumbent posture favours the free flow of blood to the brain. Arsenic and other treatment for ansemia. Headache due to exhaustion from fatigue may be relieved by rest, and sipping hot tea, coffee, or soup. Small doses of strychnine or of nux vomica are also useful. If the cause be worry in a nervous individual, 30 grains of bromide of potash, with 4 or 5 minims of tincture of nux vomica, or a dose of bromo-soda (bromide of sodium with caffeine), or a tabloid of phen- acetin 4 grains, and caffeine 1 grain, or anti- pyrin 10 grains. Any of these may be repeated an hour later, if required. Externally, liniment of chloroform alone, or with an equal part of liniment of aconite, may be applied to the painful area. In nervous debility, in addition to the im- mediate treatment of headache, diminution of work is necessary ; for school children it is often necessary to curtail the amount of work, specially of home preparation. In severe cases complete abstention from it for a long period may be required, change of air and scene, open-air exercise, nourishing diet—fish, egg, and milk. Fellow's syrup or Easton's syrup, with arsenic. Occasionally in such cases, with frequently re- curring headache, 10 or 15 grains of bromide of sodium, with tincture of nux vomica, after meals is useful along with some other tonic. Fletcher's syrup of the hydrobromates, with strychnine, is also useful. In loaded bowels, with liver derangement, a dose of calomel, followed by a purge, gives rapid relief. Some persons who live highly are accus- tomed to relieve their frequent headaches by blue pill, or calomel, followed in the morning by a saline; the removal of the cause would be better attained by the regulation of the diet and an increased amount of exercise. It is the ex- perience of many medical men, that although mercurials are useful, they favour a recurrence of the morbid condition of liver. In urcBinic headache do not give digitalis, but a dose of calomel as a bowel antiseptic, followed by a saline, and at first only water as food. Mustard to the nape of the neck. For the use of blood-letting and subcutaneous transfusion of normal saline solution, see " Ursemia." In 7'hemnatic and syjihilitic headache, the most useful drug is potassium iodide, 5 to 20 grains three times a day after food. In all cases of chronic headache, even if there be no history of syphilis and no evidence of it, iodide of potash should be tried. In rheumatic headache extract of colchicum, J to 1 grain at bedtime, is often effectual, and in rheumatism of the scalp, with tenderness to touch, ammonium chloride, 15 grains in extract of liquorice and water every four hours, often acts like a charm. In gouty headache both potassium iodide and colchicum are useful. Migraine.—In a considerable proportion of cases of acute headache to which the medical man is called he will find that he has to do with migraine. His treatment must be (a) of the attack; (h) during the interval, (a) Of the attack. The majority of patients have most relief lying down, others must sit; irritation of end-organs is excluded as far as possible, the room is darkened. In mild attacks 30 to 60 grains of guarana powder in infusion gives relief (the tincture is also said to be good); others find that a drachm of bromo-soda cuts short the attack, some use antipyrin, others phenacetin and caffeine. Placing the hands and feet in hot water gives relief in some cases. Some compress the carotids. In some the only means of obtain- ing relief from the agonising pain is the sub- cutaneous use of morphine. Such a method should be avoided, if possible, (b) Between the attacks. As the nervous system is profoundly involved, endeavour to raise its tone, and avoid everything which might lower it. In some persons uric-acidsemia is a common exciting cause of the attack, therefore in these the diet should be carefully regulated. Haig advises that nitrogenous food should be reduced to a minimum. Some persons enjoy comparative freedom if they abstain from butcher's meat and take only fish. Lauder Brunton advises a nightly dose of sodium salicylate, 15 to 30 grains alone, or with potassium bromide, 10 to 30