168 HEMIPLEGIA extensive than it is ultimately. There may, however, in another class of cases be grave interference with consciousness at the onset, or even profound coma; and although all that has been said as to the character and distribution of the paralysis in a case of hemiplegia coming on without initial loss of consciousness is equally true of a case in which consciousness is lost at the onset, after consciousness has been restored, something must be said as to the initial con- dition in such a case, as it not infreqiiently renders the diagnosis considerably more diffi- cult. The three most common causes of hemiplegia are—blocking of vessels by throm- bosis, blocking by embolism, or the rupture of vessels. The conditions associated with the onset of the first have already been alluded to. Hemiplegia resulting from embolism is sudden in its onset. It may be unattended by loss of consciousness, and may very quickly pass off; or it may result in profound loss of conscious- ness lasting for hours at least, and convulsions may occur at the onset and be repeated during the unconsciousness. The character of the paralysis may be difficult to recognise during the unconsciousness. The whole condition of the patient may be one of apparently flaccid paralysis, but if careful watch is kept, the occa- sional voluntary movement of a limb on one side and the complete absence of any move- ment in those of the opposite side, may indicate the nature of the illness. Occasionally also there is considerable restlessness on the part of the patient, especially in cases of septic emboli, and on careful observation the absence of move- ment on one side may be detected. The knee- jerks may be completely lost, they will prob- ably be so if the coma is profound, and deglu- tition may be interfered with as well as the action of the bladder and rectum. After the unconsciousness has passed of—although it must be remembered that it does not always do so— the condition of paralysis will be such as has already been described, and the position of the lesion will be determined from a consideration of the facts already mentioned. A condition of cerebral haemorrhage causing hemiplegia may have been preceded for some time by headache. On the other hand, it may occur suddenly when a patient is feehng parti- cularly well. Consciousness may be lost at once, and a condition of jsrofound coma supervene. Or the loss of consciousness may be slow, taking a few minutes or even, in the so-called "m- </ravescent apoplexy,'^ a few hours. When con- sciousness is lost at once, and profound coma comes on, the hajmorrhage is probably into the ventricle, and it may be difficult to detect the signs of the unilaterality of the lesion. If con- sciousness be slowly lost, the unilateral weak- ness will probably be distinct before the onset of unconsciousness, and when this comes on the one-sided nature of the paralysis may become somewhat masked. During unconsciousness marked deviation of the eyes may be observed, there is iisually difficulty in swallowing, and there may be retention or incontinence of urine, and loss of control over the rectum. The skin usually assumes a greasy moistness, and trophic changes over points of pressure may occur rapidly. The unconsciousness may deepen to death, or there may be recovery, consciousness becoming restored after several days. When this happens there is not infrequently intense headache which is distressing and often in- tractable. The condition of paralysis is then recognisable, and its characters answer to those already described. The prognosis in any case of hemiplegia in the early stages is beset with difficulties. In cases of embolic hemiplegia, if not very severe and occurring in young adults, it is often possible to predict a speedy recovery. But it must always be remembered that the condition caus- ing the embolism if it still persist may give rise to a second one, sooner or later. The writer has known a patient three days after an attack of embolic hemiplegia from which he had re- covered, have another attack from which recovery was only partial. And in many cases the re- covery is but slight, and a condition of con- siderable paralysis remains permanently. Of cases of hsemorrhagic hemiplegia the prognosis as regards life is good after the first fortnight, and a certain degree of recovery can always be predicted. In the first fortnight, however, the patient is in imminent danger of death, either as a result of changes occurring around the first hcfimorrhage, or because of the occurrence of a second. And as the vascidar and other con- ditions underlying the haemorrhage still persist, a second haemorrhage in the near future is almost inevitable. In cases of thrombosis, due to senile atheroma, there is not, as a rule, an extension of the blocking, but recovery, partial it is true, but often considerable, takes place. The recovery in the first few days is often marked, probably, however, because much of the paralysis at first was dynamic in origin and not the result of actual structural change. After that recovery is slower, and is never com- plete. If the thi'ombosis occur in vessels, the seat of syphilitic endarteritis, or from blood states, such as are met with during pregnancy or the puerperium, complete recovery is not to be looked for. If the paralysis be the result of tumour or abscess, the degree of recovery de- pends upon the removability of the abscess or tumour by surgical or other means. The pathological conditions underlying the paralysis and the differential diagnosis and treatment of these different conditions will be found described in the diseases of brain vessels (see " Brain," vol. i.). (ii.) It will now be well to consider the con- dition of hemiplegia as it is met with in a