IMMUNE 342 Immune. See Immunity. Immunity. I. Natural Eesistance (Innate Immunity) A. Natural Resistance to Bacteria . 343 B. Causes of Natural Resistance to Bacteria ..... 344 1. Phagocytic Theory . . .344 2. Alexins ..... 345 3. Alexocyte Theory .... 345 C. Increase of Natural Resistance to Bacteria ..... 346 D. Natural Resistance to Poison . . 348 II. Specific Immunity A. As A Result of Recovery from Specific Disease . . . 348 B. As A Result of Specific Treatment . 349 1. Protective Inoculation with Living Virulent Virus . . . 350 Inoculation for Small - pox, Cholera, Contagious Pleuro- pneumonia in Cattle 2. Protective Inoculation ivith Living yet Attenuated Virus . . 350 (a) Attenuation by High Tempera- ture .... 350 Anthrax, Black-quarter (6) Passage through less suscept- ible Animal Species . . 351 Vaccinia, Swine Lrysipelas (c) Attemiation by Drying the Vaccine . . . .351 Pabies (d) Attenuation by Addition of Antiseptics to the Nutrient Medium . . . .352 3. Protective Inoculation with Killed Cultures . . . .352 (a) Cholera . . . .352 (6) Typhoid .... 354 (c) Plague .... 355 4. Protective Inoculation with Bac- terial Cell Substances . . 356 (a) Old Tuberculin, Mallein . 356 {b) Tuberculin TP, Bacterial Plasmin . . . .357 5. Immunisation with Toxic Filt7-ates of Bacterial Cultm-es . . 357 C. Specific Immunity by the Trans- ference OF Blood Serum of Actively Immunised Animals . 358 1. Mode of obtaining Antitoxic Serum 359 2. Immunisation Value . . . 360 3. The cause of the Antagonism of Antitoxin to Toxin . . .362 4. Transference of Antitoxin by means of Heredity or Suckling . . 363 5. Employment of Immune Serum for Immunisation and Curative Purposes ..... 364 Conclusion 369 Recent Views on Immunity— Bactericidal and Hcemolytic Action . 370 Pfeiffer Phenomenon . . . 370 Bactericidal and Hcemolytic Sera . 370 Side-Chain Theory .... 371 Therapeutic Use of Bactericidal Sera 373 Opsonins—Opsonic Index . . .373 Anti-tuberculous Vaccination (Wright) 374 See also Anthrax ; Blackwater Fever {Epi- demiology) ; Epidemiology {Immunity); Plague ; Rabies (hnmunisation); Therapeutics, Serum Therapy ; Undulant Fever (Etiology, Im- munity) ; Vaccination ; Yellow Fever. Introduction.—The conception of immunity was first formed when physicians learnt that after recovery from serious diseases, and especi- ally after small-pox, a life-long protection may be secured from like diseases. Jenner then pointed out that enduring protection against a disease can be acquired by undergoing a similar or nearly related disease (as in vaccinia and small-pox), and since 1880 Pasteur's dis- coveries in regard to various artificial protective inoculations have given us a clearer conception of the nature of immunity. Gradually there- after arose the questions, which are of both theoretical and practical interest, as to why man is not susceptible to so many parasitic diseases, and as to how the living organism is enabled to withstand the putrefactive bacteria, whether they be those of the intestinal tract or of the external surface of the body, which mani- fest their destructive power immediately after the death of the whole body or of individual parts. In both these instances, however, we are obviously dealing with other circumstances and conditions than in the case of protective inoculations. It is customary, therefore, to differentiate "natural" or "innate immunity" from "acquired" or "artificially induced im- munity." But in order that the subject may be clearly understood it is important that our nomenclature should indicate the existence of this fundamental diff"erencc, hence in the follow- ing pages the innate condition of immunity will be designated as " natural power of resistance," while the term Immunity will be reserved ex- clusively for the specific condition which has either been acquired or has been artificially produced by protective inoculation. In short, specific immunity, on the one hand, is char- acterised by the presence in the body of specific antitoxins, or, speaking generally, of specific anti-substances which have been formed in the body in consequence of undergoing a specific disease, or by means of specific treatment. On the other hand, the natural power of resistance depends chiefly on the capability of the leuco- (;ytes to act either as phagocytes or as elabo- rators of microbicidal alexins, which are totally different in constitution and mode of action from antitoxins and anti-substances. Again, it