135 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM —mitral valve disease and mitral stenosis—as to be little characteristic, the other we may consider as the special sign of muscle faihore whether the latter be transient or permanent. The former is the murmur of regurgitation through the mitral and tricuspid orifices, owing to incompetence of the sound mitral and tri- cuspid valves, but this has been already referred to in sufficient detail. Till lately the possibility of a diastolic mur- mur being produced in a simply dilated heart, the result ,of muscle failure, Avas usually em- phatically denied, but of recent years evidence has been accumulating to show that a diastolic murmur of very considerable loudness (and actually accompanied by a thrill) may be pro- duced in a simply dilated heart without any valve lesion whatsoever. In the face of this recent experience it is curious to find recorded in Dr. Stokes' classical work on Heart Disease, published in 1854, a case of the kind. Two cases occurred in the Manchester Royal Infirm- ary a few years ago, and were recorded in the Practitioner for 1894. In these cases not only was there a diastolic murmur (accompanied by thrill), but there was also a reduplicate diastolic sound at the apex. During life, both cases had been regarded as cases of mitral stenosis, but neither this lesion nor aortic incompetence could be found post-mortem. It is sufficient here to point out the existence of such cases, however rare they may be. So seldom are they met with, that for practical purposes they scarcely impugn the usually accepted rule that a diastolic murmur means either arterial in- competence or auriculo-ventricular stenosis. They are of immense importance, however, in demonstrating to us how profoundly ignorant we are as to the mode of production of some of the signs with which we are well acquainted. The diastolic murmur referi'ed to is of extreme rarity, but the bruit de galop (to be immediately described) is one of the most common of axiscul- tatory signs, yet as to the mode of production of both these signs no satisfactory explanation has ever been given. The auscultatory sign we are fain to regard as the great sign of muscle faihire is a peculiar triple rhythm of (apparently) the cardiac sounds. The sign attracted the attention of French physicians long before it received from English authors the consideration it unquestionably merits, and so the French name has almost passed into our own language, and we call the sign the hruit de galop. Evidently one of the sounds is systolic and two are diastolic. Indeed, as already noted, there may be felt at the cardiac apex two distinct shocks or thuds that correspond with the diastolic sounds. We have, perhaps not without some clumsy writing, avoided the use of the term " reduplicated second sound," which might seem the natural one to employ, because of our belief that the diastolic soimds do not represent the closure of the semilunar valves. We might go a step farther, and say that in our belief neither represents the physio- logical second sound, and thus express our scepticism of theories that assume an interpolated sound to be the cause of the triple rhythm. The true hruit de galop is a sign always best heard over the ventricles, i.e. over the chief part of the muscle of the heart, and though occasionally it may be heard widely distributed and even audible at the base, in the latter situation it is less loud than over the body of the heart. The bruit de galop may be heard in all forms of muscle failure of the heart—even in that due to anaemia—but the most perfect examples are supplied by cases of chronic Bright's disease, when the vigour of the hypertrophied heart muscle is on the wane, and so onwards to the end. Often it is associated at one time or another or [permanently with the murmur of mitral and tricuspid incompetence, but its most perfect development occurs in the absence of any murmur, and its importance as an ausculta- tory sign perhaps surpasses—or at least is equal to—that of any murmur, its therapeutic bear- ings are so significant. It means a failing heart muscle. The Pulse in Muscle Failure of the Heart The condition of the pulse in cardiac muscle failure is one of very great importance, inasmuch as it forms the guide to the method of our thera- peutic endeavour. All degrees of arterial tension may he associated with muscle failure from the highest to the lowest, though the former cannot be expected to be long maintained in the presence of weakening of the muscle of the heart. More- over, intermittence, inequality of beats, and all forms of irregularity up to the fancifully named "delirium cordis " pulse, are quite commonly met with. Tachycardia, too, may occur, and cannot be regarded without apprehension, seeing how it must wear out a heart when long continued. The opposite condition, bradycardia, may like- wise be encountered. It cannot be too strongly insisted on that failing heart and high arterial tension are often associated together; nay, the latter is a power- ful agent in the determination of the former. The combination is often witnessed in the course of chronic Bright's disease, and during the asso- ciation it is that the most distressing dyspnoea is witnessed, a struggle, as it were, being main- tained between heart and vessel. As the heart muscle fails, however, the ten- sion tends to fall, as it might naturally be ex- pected to do under the circumstances, and it may ultimately reach a very low grade, the tidal wave of the tracing disappearing altogether, and dicrotism becoming pronounced. The pre- sence or absence of mitral incompetence seems, however, to be in no way indicated in the sphygmogram. Irregularity is common, especi-