520 INTENTION Intention. See Aseptic Treatment op Wounds {Healing). Intention Tremor.— Trembling or oscillation of a part {e.g. the hand) when a voluntary movement is made ; volitional tremor ; a symptom of multiple or insular sclerosis. See Tremor. Inter-.—In compound words m^er-signifies between, e.g. interarticular, between the joints or within the joint between two bones in articula- tion ; etc. etc. Interception System.—The dry method for the removal of sewage; conservancy system; ashes, earth, peat, or sawdust may be used. See Sewage and Drainage. Intermarrlag^e. See Consanguinity. Intermaxilla. See Palate {Hare-Lip). Intermenstrual.—Occurring between two menstrual periods, e.g. intermenstrual pain {Mittelschmerz), intermenstrual discharge, red or white {Metrorrhagia and Leucorrhoea). See Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Menstruation and ITS Disorders. Interments. See Burial Places; Cremation. Intermittent.—Occurring at intervals, e.g. intermittent fever (malaria), intermittent claudication (lameness due to arterio-sclerosis), intermittent pulse, intermittent insanity, etc. Interne.—The physician or surgeon who resides in a hospital and is responsible for the patients within the building. Interstitial.—Affecting the connective or indifferent tissue of a part or organ, as opposed to parenchymatous. IntertrigfO. See Erythema {Due to Local Irritation); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Caused by Climatic Conditions, Intertrigo). I n test i n es, D i seases of ( M ed i cal). Anatomical and Physiological Con- siderations ..... 520 Bacteria op the Intestinal Tract : their R6le in Health and Disease . . 522 Malpormations— 1. Of the Duodenum . . .524 2. Of the Small Intestwie . . . 524 Enteritis— 1. Acute Primary . . . .525 Food Poisoning . . . .525 Epidemic Enteritis, etc. . . 526 2. Chronic Secondary . . . 528 Ulcers— Tuberculous . . . . .529 Acute Primary and Chronic Secondary Ulcers of the Duodenum . .530 Syphilitic . . . . .531 Catarrhal and Follicular . . . 532 Malignant ..... 532 Hoemorrhagic . . . . .532 Vascular...... 532 Lardaceous Disease .... 532 Malignant Disease of the Intestines . 533 Non-Malignant Growths . . . 535 Actinomycosis 535 See also Intestines, Surgical Affections of ; Abdomen, Injuries of ; Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis op ; Actinomycosis {Intestine); An- -EMiA, Pernicious {Treatment, Intestinal Anti- septics) ; Anthrax ; Breath {Intestinal Irriga- tion in Uraemia); Burns and Scalds {Pathology, Intestinal Lesions); Children, Development op {Intestine); Cholera, Epidemic; Cholera Nos- tras ; Colon, Diseases of ; Diarrhcea ; Diges- tion and Metabolism ; Dysentery ; Enterop- Tosis; Feces ; Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts, Diseases of ; Gastro-IntEvStinal Disorders op Infancy ; H/ematemesis ; Heart, Affections op Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Car- diac Disease, Passive Congestion of Intestine); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Symptomatology, Intestines); Hydatid Disease ; Hysteria, Surgical Aspects {Intes- tinal Obstruction); Indigestion ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties); Joints, Diseases of {General Health in Tuber- culous Joint Disease); Lardaceous Degenera- tion {Alimentary Canal); Leucocytosis {Lym- jjJtocytosis in Intestinal Catarrh); Liver, Dis- eases OF {Chronic Venous Congestion); Liver {Tropical Abscess, Discharye into Intestine); Liver {Hydatids, Rupture into Intestine); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Alimentary System); Medicine, Forensic {Injuries, Rup- tures of Internal Organs); Melena ; Ovaries, Diseases of {Complications, Intestinal Adhesions and Obstruction); Nephritis {Clinical Features, Diarrhcea) ; Palpitations ; Parasites ; Pan- creas, Diseases {Pancreatitis, Acute, Diagnosis); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Structure, Intestinal Digestion, etc.); Plague {Intestinal Type) ; Post-Mortem Methods {Examination of the Body Cavities); Spleen, Surgery of {Mov- able Spleen, Diagnosis from Intestinal Obstruc- tion) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of ; Stools ; Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, In- testinal Crises); Tuberculosis {Alimentary Tract); Typhoid Fever. Anatomical and Physiological Considera- tions.—It is of importance in the study of dis- eases of the intestine to have a clear knowledge of the development of the intestinal tract. At an early stage of the h\iman embryo, while the three layers of the epi-, meso-, and hypoblast still remain distinct, and the neural canal and notocliord are in the process of formation, the