508 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF quiescence of the highest nerve regions which rendered recuperation possible. To take over by force the regulation of a man's conduct, is a proceeding which lies entirely outside the province of the physician. Such a proceeding is ipso facto a menace to every mem- ber of the community. It is one which is not to be countenanced except upon the strongest grounds of expediency, and it is one, moreover, which the community will not and ought not to permit without the sanction of its own accredited representative, given under specified conditions laid down by itself. These conditions vary very widely in different communities, and even in the several divisions of these islands they exhibit a surprising diversity. Broadly, it may be stated that the formalities whose observance is required in depriving a " person of unsound mind " of the regulation of his own affairs are divisible into two classes, those which refer to the deprivation of his management of his means of livelihood, and those which refer to the deprivation of his management of the rest of his relations with his surroundings. His means of livelihood are called in English law his estate, while the main- tenance of due relations between himself and his surroundings in other respects—between himself and physical dangers, between himself and his family, between himself and the com- munity in all respects other than his means of livelihood—is regarded as peculiarly the man- agement of himself. With the formalities which are necessary for the deprivation from a person of the management of his estate, the physician is not directly concerned, and they need not be considered here, further than by mention of the fact that, under the English law, a person may be deprived of the power of managing his estate, while he may be at the same time left in undis- turbed possession of the management of all his other relations with surrounding circumstances. The formalities necessary for depriving a person of the management of these residual relations differ, as has been said, in the three divisions of the United Kingdom, and they differ in each division, moreover, according to the degree to which the deprivation is carried. For degrees of deprivation are made, and a person may be deprived of the management of more or fewer of his relations with his surroundings, or, as we may say more briefly, of his affairs, according as it appears expedient. It is very much to be regretted that in the laws of England only the grosser degrees of incapacity can be dealt with by deprivation of power. Every yeai", nay, evei-y month, and almost every week, occur cases in which a goodly estate is dissipated, an hon- oured name is besmirched, an innocent family is brought to scandal and to poverty, by the pro- digality, the vice, the folly of some unworthy scion who is incapable of prudence and rectitude, but whose incapability is not of such a nature as to enable his relatives to put the provisions of the Lunacy Acts into force for their own protection. There is not an alienist physician, there is not a family solicitor in large practice, nay, there is not an intelligent reader of the law and police news in the daily papers, who is not aware of cases of this kind, in which, if not scandal, at least impoverishment could have been averted, had the excellent provisions of the French conseil de famille been in force in this country. However, our concern here is with the law not as it ought to, but as it does exist, and with this preface we will proceed to state it as it stands. The legal provisions under which a person can be deprived of the regulation of his own affairs differ, first, according as his defect in regulating power is congenital or not; and, second, according to the amoimt of his property. England and Wales.—An idiot or imbecile from birth or from an early age may be placed under control, and detained in an institution registered under the Idiots Act, upon the certifi- cate of one medical practitioner, accompanied by a statement made by the parent or guardian of the patient or by the person who undertakes towards him the duty of a parent or guardian (Idiots Act, 1886, sect. 4). As these documents are of a very simple character, need no com- ment, and are obtainable at any registered in- stitution for idiots, there is no need to introduce them here. A lunatic wandering at large must be appre- hended by the police and brought before a justice, who will send the patient to the county or borough asylum of the district. Either before or after he is so sent his friends may obtain control of him by making application, in the one case to the magistrate, in the other to the visitors of the asylum and to the Commissioners in Lunacy. A lunatic who is not under proper care and control, or ivho is cruelly treated or neglected by those who have charge of him, must be reported by the police on oath to a justice, who will pro- ceed as directed in the Act. A lunatic ?t'Ao is a pauper must be reported to the relieving officer of the district by the union medical officer of his district within three days of the medical officer obtaining knowledge that the pauper patient is or is deemed to be a lunatic. For a lunatic ivho is not a jjauper the pro- cediu-e is various. The patient may, if he is willing to do so, and if he is competent to form a judgment as to the expediency of doing so, enter a licensed house as a voluntary boarder, by previously obtaining the consent of one of the licensers—of a com- missioner in the case of a metropolitan licensed house, or a visiting justice in the case of a provincial licensed house; or he may enter as a voluntary boarder a registered hospital without any previous consent other tiian that of the