95 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM origin, are particularly prone to affect the valves. Microbic valvulitis, or an endocarditis dependent on invasion by infective organisms, may occur at any age, but is most frequent in adults. Auriculo - ventricular valvular defects arising from primary muscle failure are usually met with in mature subjects, and generally at what should be the period of maximum vigour. In advanced and declining years the aortic valves are peculiarly prone to suffer from degenerative changes, and are liable to be involved by low inflammatory and degradation processes extend- ing to them from adjacent parts. Thickening of the auriculo-ventricular segments is not in- frequently met with by the pathologist when there had been no clinical evidence of impair- ment of their action. In females the period of sexual activity, with its elevations of arterial tension and the strain of child-bearing, is of con- siderable importance in advancing a valvular condition practically latent to one associated with marked symptoms. Temperament is a factor which may be con- sidered of some slight etiological importance in accelerating or retarding the day of cardiac failure. The high tension engendered by worry is apt to be neglected. Previous Disease. — As already indicated, a valve in any way impaired, either by congenital deficiencies or acquired defects, is prone to become the seat of further morbid processes, and this would seem to be particularly the case when the exciting agent is of an infectious nature. Climate. — The manifold factors included under this term can only be considered of im- portance in so far as they influence the produc- tion of diseases, like rheumatism, which are intimately allied with morbid processes occur- ring in the valves. The relation of Bright's disease to climate must also be noted, for the connection of renal affections and certain forms of cardiac disease is a close one. Social position becomes of importance in in- fluencing exposure to definite morbific influences. The inability of the poor to obtain a livelihood without hard work means early failure to many a cardiac cripple. Occupation must be admitted as not only a predisposing factor, but oftentimes a contri- buting influence. The importance of work necessitating stress and strain cannot be set aside. Its action is complex : sometimes it may act through sudden injury, but more frequently it leads to valvular deficiencies by the establish- ment of chronic inflammatory processes, causing aortic dilatation or direct implication of the valves, while there may be at the same time muscle failure brought about by coronary inter- ference or otherwise. Education, or rather its associated methods, unfortunately cannot at present be excluded from the group of predisposing causes. There is reason to believe that mal-education, at least in physical procedures, oftentimes precipitates a cardiac breakdown in young subjects, who, per- haps, with slight valvular impairment following rheumatic endocarditis, are quite unfitted for specially trying forms of drill, exercise, or athletic pursuits. Still, taken altogether, the influence of athletics is beneficial; the good out- weighs the evil. Ilahits are of importance, as, for example, alcoholism, sexual excesses, depraved feeding, etc.; but reference to these will be found in the clinical section. Exciting Causes.—Among the specific influ- ences productive of valvular disease rheumatism stands out pre - eminent. As to its precise nature we are still in the dark. We may safely assert, however, that by the prevention of rheumatic fever, and such " rheumatic " mani- festations as choi'ea, rheumatic arthritis, and "growing pains," the greater number of chronic valvular affections would be effectually banished. In every case of chronic valvular disease a history of rheumatism, or the so-called "rheumatic" affections, should be sought. Several of the in- fectious diseases are said occasionally to give rise to progressive valvular endocarditis. Possibly scarlet fever may sometimes so act; but even here the relation to rheumatism must not be lost sight of, for there are several quite distinct forms of arthritis met with in scarlatina. Septic and other organisms, as previously indicated, may establish or continue valvular disease, and usually such proceed more or less rapidly to a fatal issue ; but some pathologists contend that death of the microbes and subsequent cicatrisa- tion of the valves occasionally occur. Such a view is exceedingly difiicult, if not impossible, to prove. Both autotoxic and lieterotoxic agents seem capable of initiating chronic inflammatory and degenerative changes in the fibrous and muscular elements of the heart, aiid in the effects of which the valves may possibly participate. Syphilis, gout, and Bright's disease must here be men- tioned. Syphilis, however, although acting disastrously on the coats of the aorta, so leading to dilatation and valvular incompetence, does not commonly affect the valves themselves. One form of localised supra-valvular aortitis, of which we have met with several examples, is probably syphilitic in origin, and has a special tendency to produce obstruction of the coronary arteries and extension to the aortic valves, rendering them incompetent. Gout, alcohol, and Bright's disease probably never give rise to valvular disease directly. Gout, and with it plumbism and Bright's disease, are of course associated with high arterial tension and implication of the vascular system, and thence secondary valve implication or incompetence may arise. The etiological importance of mechanical strain has already been insisted upon, and direct