16 H.^IMATEMESIS temesis may occur in haenioiThagic states, such as purpura hsemorrhagica, leukaemia, pernicious anaemia, and htemophilia. It has also been observed in association with urticaria, and the two are doubtless manifestations of the same underlj'ing blood state. Haematemesis is said to represent menstrua- tion. It is, however, quite possible that the explanation of some of these cases of vicarious menstruation is that there is a chronic gastric ulcer which periodically bleeds, while in others the hfemorrhage may have been feigned. Vicarious menstruation was recognised by Sir Thomas Watson, but at the present time most practising physicians will endorse the late Dr. .J. Matthews Duncan's dictum—" I have all my life been on the look-out for it" (vicarious menstruation), "but I have never seen an example, and do not expect to do so." Diagnosis. — Sudden hsematemesis without any history of previous illness is in a middle- aged patient most likely to be due to latent cirrhosis of the liver. If the liver and spleen are found to be enlarged, and the individual's habits are known to be alcoholic, the diagnosis is strengthened. If the sudden hsemorrhage is accompanied by the rapid development of ascites, thrombosis of the portal vein should be thought of. Great enlargement of the spleen would point to spleno-meduUary leuk- semia or splenic ansemia, and a blood ex- amination should be made to elucidate the diagnosis. A large hsematemesis may occvir from acute gastritis due to recent alcoholic excess, and the question will arise as to whether there is latent cirrhosis as well. The absence of any evidence of cirrhosis and the occurrence of hajmatemesis in a young man are in favour of alcoholic gastritis. If there has been dyspepsia for some time before the onset of htematemesis the cause may be gastric ulcer, carcinoma of the stomach, cirrhosis, or duodenal vdcer. If the patient is a young anfemic woman, and the haemorrhage is copious, the probabilities are strongly in favour of a gastric ulcer; this will be supjjorted by a history of pain, which coming on directly after food is relieved by vomiting, and by finding a point of maximum tenderness on deep pressure over the stomach ; with simple pore-like erosions of the gastric mucous membrane, tenderness, however, may be absent, though the hasmatemesis may be frequently repeated and severe. Ex- amination of the vomited matters, apart from hfcmatemesis, will show an excess of hydro- chloric acid in gastric ulcer. Melcena follows h;umatemesis. In very rare cases of hour-glass stomach with an ulcer in the distal pouch, mclicna may occur without hscmatemesis. In other cases where the hajmorrhage is slight, nielfcna alone may be noted. Gastric \dcer in men is met with later in life than in the female sex; it is accompanied by more pain, gives rise to anaemia, and may be associated with arterio-sclerosis. Care must be taken to eliminate carcinoma, cirrhosis, and duodenal ulcer. It should be remembered that carcinoma may develop in a site of a chronic gastric ulcer, and that as this change takes place a corresponding modification in the symptoms may be observed. In carcinoma of the stomach the vomited blood is black, resembles " coft'ee grounds," and is usually small in quantity, so that melsena is not noticed. If tested, the vomit will probably be found not to contain hydrochloric acid. A most important point in the diagnosis of gastric carcinoma is the presence of a tumour in the stomach or in its neighbourhood. Thvis a tumour may be felt near or at the umbilicus, in the line of the falciform ligament, or on the surface of the liver. The age of the patient has a very definite bearing ; ulcer is common in early life, while carcinoma is rare. Htematemesis in cirrhosis may be preceded by chronic dyspepsia, but the symptoms are not so severe as in ulcer or carcinoma, and tender- ness, if present, is general, and much less than the localised pain elicited on pressing over a gastric ulcer. In duodenal ulcer the pain and dyspepsia should come on two hours after food, i.e. when the pylorus allows the contents of the stomach to pass into the duodenuin, tenderness is more to the right of the middle line than in gastric idcer, and the patient is nearly always a man. MelsBua may precede ha3matemesis, or even occur without haimatemesis. When hsematemesis is associated with jaundice, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, phosphorus poisoning, or cholaemia from the continued effects of obstructive jaundice should be thought of. Hsematemesis with fever suggests some severe infection, while haemorrhage elsewhere points to a blood condition such as purpura, the malignant or haemorrhagic forms of the specific fevers, pernicious anaemia, etc. Prognosis. — Haematemesis is rarely immedi- ately fatal ; when it is so in cirrhosis, the first haemorrhage is in a considerable proportion followed by death (Preble). The rupture of an abdominal aneurysm is, of course, likely to be fatal at once, while the copious haemorrhage from an ulcerated oesophageal varix, or from a large artery like the splenic opened by a gastric ulcer, is much more prone to be followed by immediate grave results than the small haemor- rhages of malignant disease. When large haemorrhages occur at short intervals death may occur from exhaustion ; in such cases the stomach should be opened and the bleeding point surgically treated. Haematemesis in yellow fever and in the malignant forms of the specific fevers is of