DISEASES OF 524 INTESTINES, perhaps of the body generally, it becomes patho- genic and plays an important part in the causa- tion if it is not the sole cause of many intes- tinal diseases. In most inflammatory and suppurative conditions of the intestine it is found in excess. In suppuration of the gall- bladder and bile ducts it has a most important place, also in some varieties of enteritis, in appendicitis, and in peritonitis, whether the intestine is perforated or not, as it can pass through a damaged intestinal wall and produce a distinct variety of peritonitis. In typhoid fever the colon bacillus increases enormously, especially in the large intestine, and its resem- blance to the typhoid bacillus requires special cultivations on various media and discriminat- ing reactions to distinguish one from the other. 2. Staphylococci are found in small numbers in the normal intestine, but in catarrh of the mucous surface, and in suppurative and gan- grenous conditions and other diseases, they multiply vigorously. 3. Streptococci, which normally exist in the bowel, are virulent in diseased conditions and abound in all inflammations with fibrous exu- dations, e.g. non - diphtheric inflammations, enteritis, and colitis, etc. It is stated that streptococcus longus in the milk of cows suffer- ing from mastitis produces diarrhoea in children, and when experimentally injected into animals. 4. Bacillus Enteritis Sporagenes. — Klein iso- lated this anaerobic bacillus in epidemic diarrhoea, of which milk was supposed to be the cause. His own and further investigations by others have not confirmed this view, but rather go to show that the bacillus exists widely in nature, in the normal intestine, in normal dejecta, in dysentery, diarrhoeic stools, ulcera- tive colitis, etc. Gautner in 1888 isolated a bacillus which he calls bacillus enteritis in some cases of meat poisoning, and another bacillus evidently of the same group has lately been isolated in cases of meat poisoning. Both caused intense hcemorrhagic enteritis. 5. Bacillus pyocyaneus is said to cause gastro- intestinal catarrh, and to be found in the intes- tine in cases of infantile atrophy. 6. The bacilli of typhoid fever are found chiefly in Beyer's patches and the solitary glands before the stage of necrosis and suppura- tion, when they to a great extent disappear, remaining at the edge of the typhoid ulcer and in the lymphatic vessels and the mesenteric glands. It is probable that the necrosis is chiefly brought about by the action of the toxic products of this bacillus. As already mentioned the colon bacillus is found in great abundance in combination with the typhoid bacillus. 7. Bacillus of diphtheria is found whenever a true pathogenic membrane forms in the intestine, and where the diphtheric membrane from the fauces is swallowed. It is by no means the only bacterium present in diphtheric membranes, but is associated with streptococci chiefly. 8. Cholerus spirillum (vide "Cholera," vol. ii. p. 115). 9. Tubercle bacilli may be present in the intestine and fteces in the absence of tubercu- losis, yet their presence in the faeces in the absence of lung disease is most suggestive, especially in suspected cases of primary tuber- culosis of the intestine in children {vide " Tuber- culosis and Intestinal Tubercular Ulceration "). 10. Actinomycosis.—For a description of the actinomycoses or ray fungus in the intestine vide "Actinomycosis and Appendicitis." Malformations 1. Of the Duodenum.—Occur as duodenal pouches or occlusion. Duodenal occlusion is met with just above the entrance of the bile duct into the duodenum. It may occur as a complete occlusion, the first portion narrowing gradually so as to present a blind end ununited to the second portion, ex- cept, possibly, by a fibrous band, or as a diaphragm complete or perforated, and consist- ing of structures similar to those composing the intestinal walls. A suggested method of pro- duction of both of these conditions is that a kink is produced above the bud when the hepatic diverticulum buds off" from the duo- denum, and adhesion produces permanent occlu- sion. The symptoms produced are vomiting, which occurs soon after birth, and the vomited matter is not bile-stained. Jaundice is usually absent, muconeum is passed, and the bowels may be moved several times after birth. Rapid emaciation follows and death takes place in from one to eleven days, the time varying with the degree of obstruction. Duodenal diverticula or pouches occur in the same situation as occlusion, namely, just above the biliary papilla. The pouches are wide- mouthed, and their walls consist of the same structures as the intestinal walls. As a rule they do not attain to any great size, and are not known to give rise to any symptoms imless, as has been occasionally reported, gallstones or other foreign bodies become arrested in them. These diverticula appear to be connected with the hepatic offshoot in much the same way as Meckel's diverticulum is with the vitelline duct. They appear to be related to an erratic form of developmental activity at this portion of the intestine. The duodenum has also been found unattached to or occluded near the pylorus at its upper end, and a similar defect has been noticed near the jejunum at its lower end. 2. Of the Small Intestine.—(a) Jfeckel's diver- ticulum. — In early foetal life the intestine communicates with the yolk sac by the vitelline canal, and a persistence of this communication may leave a tubular connection between the