124 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM Murmur.—In our endeavour to determine the orifice at which a miirmnr is produced, the place at which it is heard loudest must always be ascertained. As a matter of fact all the orifices of the heart lie close together. To use Dr. Walshe's statement, " A superficial area of half an inch will include a portion of all four sets of valves in situ; an area of about a quarter of an inch, a portion of all except the tricuspid." It is therefore impossible to assign a murmur to a certain orifice because it is heard loudest over that particular orifice, seeing that the other orifices are in such close proximity, but the less important orifices—those of the right side —lie superficially, and one of these — the pulmonary—is so close to the svirface that the shock of the closure of its valves can often be felt, as we have already found, on palpation. The areas at which pulmonary and tricuspid murmurs are usually best heard are, accordingly and respectively, " the sternal extremity of the 3rd left cartilage " and " the lower part of the sternum and adjoining area to the left of the bone where the heart is vmcovered by lung." We expect murmurs generated at these orifices to be heard loudest in the areas named, which practically overlie the orifices concerned. As will be explained, however, under " Conduction of Murmurs," certain objections may be raised to the selection of the areas in question. It is impossible, however, to find better ones. The principle on which the areas assigned in auscultation to the more important aortic and mitral orifices are selected is quite different, and is that of the isolation of the murmurs at some distance from the orifices at which they are produced. The " aortic area " is the " sternal extremity of the 2nd right costal cartilage" ; hero the aorta comes close to the surface, but of the two murmurs that may be generated at its orifice the systolic has luiquestionably a better chance of being conducted hither in full intensity than the diastolic murmur. Clinical experience, as well as theory, bears out this statement, for one is often svu'prised at hearing so little in the aortic area of an aortic diastolic murmur that is loud below. The " mitral area," again, corresponds to the apex of the heart as well as the apex of the left ventricle. At the cardiac apex, then, we have to do with this chamber only. In the case of the direct or obstructive mitral murmurs, we can well under- stand their free conduction in the direction of the cm-rent that produces them, but for the murmurs of incompetence the apex as the place of their isolation would, at first, seem ill-chosen. It is known, however, that the disposition of the valve curtains, as lips projecting in the opposite direction to the regurgitant current, is calculated to i-eflect the murmm- of incompetence forwards to the apex {vide Fagge : Reynolds' System of Medicine, vol. iv. p. 630). The frequent presence of this same murmur of mitral incompetence at the back is, of course, readily explained by the posterior position of the left auricle into which the regurgitated stream must directly pass. While it is desirable that special attention should always be given both to the cardiac soiinds and to any murmurs that may be audible in these four areas, auscultatory ex- amination of the heart must not be limited to them. The necessity for this injimction will be evident on consideration of the following para- graphs. (iii.) The Conduction of Murmurs.—The most important murmurs—the aortic and the mitral —have fairly definite lines of conduction, and especially is this the case with respect to the re- gurgitation murmurs of both aortic and mitral origin. As regards the obstruction murmurs produced at these orifices, the aortic is carried on in the course of the circulation, as might have been anticipated, and may be audible over the upper back in the left vertebral groove; the mitral is likewise carried onwards in the course of the circulation to the cardiac apex, beyond which it only exceptionally spreads. The systolic murmur of mitral incompetence, especi- ally when there is structural change of the valve ciirtains without stenosis or very free regurgitation from muscle failure, is apt to be very well conducted to the back. On the other hand, in cases of regurgitation through a sten- osed orifice, the murmur is often not conducted to the back, only a first sound being audible there, and the same condition is the rule in cases of mitral incompetence from muscle failure, the exception to the rule being found in cases in which the incompetence apparently is imusually great for the time being. Murmurs that are inaudible at the back may be audible in the axilla as far as the mid-axillary line, or even beyond it, while those audible at the back are usually heard continuously, as the stetho- scope is passed backwards, from the apex to the spine. In a considerable number of cases the murmur is not only audible, but loud at the back to the right of the spine. As in these cases there is often tricuspid regurgita- tion as well as mitral, some have supposed that the loud murmur to the right of the spine is tricuspid in origin, but this is very doubtful. The murmur of aortic incompetence is con- ducted downwards and to the left, towards the apex. In many cases it is heard over all the cardiac area, in most cases it passes well down the sternum, and it may even be most distinct at, or actually limited to, the lower part of this bone. Feeble murmurs are not rarely located to the left of the sternum between the 3rd and 5th cartilages. It will be evident that these last two positions properly belong to tricuspid and pulmonary murmurs respectively, but as regards the former a tricuspid diastolic murmur is exceedingly rare, much more rare than the