MALFORMATIONS OF 153 HEART, CONGENITAL tions occur in them, with very loud murmurs, they invariably cause great increase in the cardiac dulness. 2. The occurrence of murmurs along with greatly increased cardiac dulness and feeble apex-beat in young children is in favour of congenital disease. The increased dulness de- pends mainly on enlargement of the right heart while the left is but slightly altered. On tlie other hand, acquired heart disease in children is accompanied by increased force of the apex-beat, because its effect falls first on the left side, while the dilatation of the right heart sets in later, and does not affect the increased strength of the apex-beat. 3. The complete absence of murmurs at the apex, while they are distinctly present in the region of the auricles and over the pulmonary ■orifice, is always an important element in the differential diagnosis, and is more in favour of septal defects or pulmonary stenosis than of endocarditis. 4. Abnormal Aveakness of the pulmonary second sound along with a distinct systolic murmur can only be explained, in early child- hood, by assuming the presence of congenital pulmonary stenosis, and consequently is worth remembering as a point in the differential diagnosis. 5. Absence of a palpable thrill, in spite of very loud murmurs audible all over the prsecordial region, occurs almost exclusivelj^ in cases of ■congenital septal defects, and this condition is therefore against a diagnosis of acquired heart ■disease. 6. Loud systolic murmurs (especially those accompanied by a thrill) which have their point of maximum intensity situated over the upper third of the sternum, and are unaccompanied by any symptom of marked hypertrophy of the left ventricle, are very important for the diagnosis of persistence of the ductus arteriosus, and cannot be explained by the assumption of endocarditis of the aortic valves. Phognosis. — The prognosis depends on the age of the patient, the state of his strength, and the presence or absence of hypertrophy of the heart and of cyanosis. The character of the murmur is of small importance in this con- nection compared with the genei-al condition. In young infants the prognosis must always be very guarded until there has been time to observe to what extent the cardiac abnormality interferes with the vital processes. If the cyanosis is marked, the child weakly, and the heart enlarging in spite of care, the outlook is very bad. If, on the other hand, the patient's nutrition and vigour have been tolerably well sustained for several years, if cyanosis and club- bing are absent or slight, and the heart little, if at all, enlarged, the chance of his reaching man- hood may be regarded as fairly good. In estimating the effect of a congenital heart lesion on the general health, it is important not to attribute to its influence debility arising from other causes. It is not very unconmion to meet with children whose general health has been neglected owing to their having a loud heart murmur, which was supposed to indicate an incurable cause for all their ill-health, but who rapidly respond to ordinary treatment of their other ailments. TreatiMENt. — Generally the only possible treatment consists in keeping the patient quiet and warm and attending to his nourishment. In cases where there are periodic signs of failure of compensation (increasing dyspna?a, epistaxis, epileptiform attacks, etc.), great advantage is derived from confining the patient to bed for a time and giving digitalis or strophanthus. On the habitual cyanosis of these cases cardiac tonics have no effect. For cardiac pain and breathlessness, when severe, notliing but mor- phine, and that sometimes only in large doses, brings any relief. If rickets, anajmia, indigestion, or any other diseases are present, they must be carefully attended to. Heart, Neuroses of. Introduction. . . . . .153 Bradycardia . . . . . .154 Tachycardia . . . . .156 Arrhythmia . . . . . .159 By a neurosis is usually meant a disorder, the manifestations of which are attributed to an influence of the nervous system, the nature of which is quite or largely unknown. Under these circumstances, signs and symptoms are apt to be raised to the rank of diseases, and words made to take the place of things. Such a state of matters tends, naturally, to unreasoning or empiric treatment, which in the case of some so-called neuroses of the heart may be neither successful nor safe. These are divis- ible into two great classes representative of the two chief properties of the nervous sj-stem— sensibility and motility. They are classed as disorders of cardiac sensibility and cardiac motion respectively, and may, to all appearance, in some cases bear the relation one to another of cause and effect, as when the pain of angina is followed by a rescuing acceleration of the heart's action. In the article dealing with the pliysiology of the heart (p. 66) it was pointed out that the essential factors in the functional unity of the heart's action were the muscle cell, its blood-supply, and its nervous endowment. In examining the nature and determining tlie jjre- ponderant character of cases when classifying cardiac neuroses, as well as in prescribing treat- ment, these factors have constantly to be borne in mind. For information regarding sensory di.sorders of the heart the reader is refeiTed to the article