HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 101 pulmonary artery is more or less constantly distended, and dilatation occurring, may allow of regurgitation through the pulmonary orifice. In such cases, also, the pulmonary artery may be atheromatous. Affections of the Tricuspid Valves Primary or isolated lesions of the right auriculo-ventricular valves are exceedingly rare, while secondary impairment of their mechanical action is met with in the greater number of cardiac oases. During foetal development malformations and inflammatory processes are more liable to involve the tricuspid than the mitral valves, but after birth, although the tricuspid may suffer in connection with or secondary to the other valves, a lesion limited to them is quite exceptional. The morbid conditions may be divided into (i.) Tricuspid stenosis and (ii.) Tricuspid incom- petence. When the former exists the latter is also usually present. Tricuspid Stenosis.—Tricuspid obstruction ranks amongst the rare forms of valvular lesion. The greater number of recorded cases have occurred in females. The age at death is usually between 20 and 30. It is often said to be of congenital origin, but of this we have grave doubts. In most instances it is associated with mitral stenosis. As a general rule the degree of stenosis of the tricuspid is much less than that of the mitral. In most of these cases the involvement would seem to be coincident and dependent on rheumatism. Tricuspid stenosis is also said to arise as a secondary lesion from inflammatory processes set up by back-pressure acting through the pulmonary circviit. It is probable that this is never the case. The morbid anatomy of the stenosed tricuspid is almost identical with that of the similarly aff"ected mitral, and hence does not call for any detailed description. The cusps are thickened, contracted, more or less adherent to one an- other, deformed, and sometimes connected into a funnel-shaped structure with induration and adhesion of the chordaj tendinese, and the orifice thereby greatly narrowed. Vegetations may still further obstruct the orifice, and abundant deposition of lime salts may add to the rigidity of the sclerosed tissues. The secondary results have already been sufficiently indicated, and need not be fui'ther dwelt on, except to point out that the greater part of the changes found in the chambers of the right heart are, generally speaking, due rather to the usually present and more im- portant mitral stenosis than the tricuspid lesion. Tricuspid Incompetence. — Insufficiency of the tricuspid valves, allowing of regurgitation, is, as above indicated, a common valvular defect. Indeed, in states of over-distension, such as may occur in the course of violent exertion, a leakage or " safety-valve" action may be con- sidered as physiological. For practical purposes, therefore, it is all- important to differentiate cases into two groups :— (i.) Tricuspid regurgitation arising from muscle failure of the heart and independent of lesion in the structure of the valves. (ii.) Tricuspid regurgitation dependent on morbid conditions of the valve segments. Where the latter exists, the influence indi- cated in the former is only too apt to be sooner or later superadded. Tricuspid regurgitation from relaxation or stretching of the fibrous ring constituting the base of the valve imdoubtedly occurs, but usually has been for long preceded by asthenic or distinctly morbid affections of the muscular substance. Conditions of degeneration, inflam- mation, or like states impairing the contractile power of the cardiac walls and papillary muscles, arise from a variety of agencies, as already indicated, and hence it is easy to understand how tricuspid incompetence may be consecu- tive to many different diseases and dissimilar lesions. It is necessary also to insist on the paramount importance of influences acting on the muscle of the right ventricle through the pulmonary system. This arises either from local morbid conditions of the lungs, such as chronic bron- chitis, emphysema, fibrosis, and the like, or from backworking of the effects of left-sided lesions and conditions of high arterial tension such as occurs in chronic Bright's disease. But in a considerable number of the cases of tricuspid incompetence there is a distinct alteration in the valve segments. In one class the cusps will be found thickened, puckered, shrunken, and with induration of the chordte tendinese, and possibly calcareous deposition. Usually the mitral will also be involved to a greater extent, and frequently the aortic cusps. Here the valvular crippling is dependent, in the great majority of cases that are not con- genital, on rheumatism or chorea. Atheroma is sometimes said to involve the tricuspid valves, but we believe this to be quite exceptional. In another class of cases the tricuspid valves become swollen, deformed, and more or less destroyed by a malignant endocarditis. Tricuspid regurgitation being generally a secondary condition, the state of the heart will often be in great part dependent on the primary lesion, but in the cases in which the tricuspid incompetence is of primary origin, or at all events the most conspicuoiis feature, the right auricle will be found enormously dilated with a variable degree of hypertrophy of its walls, although sometimes they may be distinctly thinned. The vena) cavte are usually much