HAIRY Hairy Heart.—When the heart is covered with long shreds of fibrin (as in acute fibrinous pericarditis) it assumes a peculiar shaggy appear- ance—cor villosum. Haldane's Haemogriobino- meter. See H/Emoglobinometeb. Hal it us.—A vapour, odour, or exhalation, e.g. Halitus oris foetidus, a stinking breath. Hallopeau's Dermatitis. See Dermatitis Herpetiformis {Sy7ionyms, Types). Hallucinations. See Alcoholism {Chronic); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Hypercemia, Symptoms); Delirium Tremens ■{Symptoms); Hypnotism ; Paranoia. Hallux.—The great toe, e.g. hallux rigidus or h. malleus, the condition in which the first phalanx of the toe is fixed at an angle of from 30° to 60°, while the second phalanx is extended; hallux valgus, in which the great toe deviates outwards {i.e. away from the middle line of the body), and leads to the formation of a bunion ; and hallux varus, or pigeon-toe, in which it deviates inwards, and so comes to bo separated from the other toes. See Deformities {Foot and Toes). HalOg^enS. — The elements chlorine, bromine, and iodine are called halogens, because by their union with metals they form bodies (salts) resembling ordinary salt (chloride of sodium); and the salts thus produced are some- times called halloid {i.e. like sea salt). See Ohlorine ; Bromum ; Iodine. Halsted'S Operation. See Hernia ■{Radical Cure, Inguinal). Halteridium. See Malaria {History); Parasites {Protozoa, Haemosporidia). HalyS. See Snake-Bites {Viperine Snakes, ■Crotalidce). HamameliS.—Both the dried bark and the leaves of Hamamelis virginiana, or Witch- hazel (United States), are official. The important constituent is Tannic acid, of which the bark contains more than the leaves. Preparations— 1. Tinctura Hamamelidis. Dose — \-\'h. 2. Extractum Hamamelidis Liquidum. Dose— 5-15 m. 3. Liquor Hamamelidis. 4. Un- guentum Hamamelidis. 5. Hazeline (N.O.), a distilled extract from the leaves (represented in the U.S.P. by Aqua Hamamelidis), is probably the most efficient preparation of all. Dose— ^-23. " Pond's Extract," a concentrated variety, is a popular American preparation. Hamamelis is used locally as an astringent and htemostatic in sore throat, pharyngitis, coryza, epistaxis, piles, and in bleeding from tooth-sockets, gums, etc. For these purposes it is diluted with water to the extent of 20-60 m. vol. IV HEART 49 of hazeline, or of the tincture, to the ounce of water. Solutions of similar strength may be injected into the bladder in vesical haemorrhage. The ointment is used in the treatment of haemor- rhoids. Given internally Hamamelis may check a simple diarrhoea. It is also said to act as a remote hajmostatic, but this is very doubtful. Good results, however, have been claimed for it in haemoptysis, haematemesis, uterine oozing, and bleeding from the bladder. Ham mam Melouan. See Balneo LOGY {Africa, Algiers) ; Mineral Waters {Earthy and Calcareous). Hammerman's Cramp.—Smith's palsy. See Neuroses, Occupation. Hammer Toe.—A deformity, usually of the second toe, in which the fii'st phalanx is dorsiflexed, the second shows plantar flexion, and the third is extended. See Deformities {Hammer Toe). Hamstring: Jerk. See Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology, Reflexes). Hamulus.—A hoop-shaped structure, e.g. the hamulus pterygoideus or hamular process of the pterygoid bone. Hand. See also Amputations {Upper Ex- tremity, Hand, Wrist Joint); Arteries, Injuries OF ( Wound of Palm of Hand); Artificial Limbs {Hand); Aseptic Treatment {Contact Infection and Disinfection of Hands); Deformities {Hand and Fingers) ; Eczema {Hands); Fingers ; Infant Feeding {Hand - Feeding) ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies, Hand Presentation) ; Labour, Operations ( Ver- sion) ; Mental Deficiency {Cretinoid Cases, Character of Hands); Physiognomy" and Ex- pression {Movements); Puerperium, Pathology {Infection, Causes, Prophylaxis); Teratology {Malformations of Limbs) ; Tetany {Motor Symptoms, Spasms of Hands); Toxicology {Chronic Arsenical Poisoning). Surgical Anatomy.—The extensor tendons and superficial veins are seen on the dorsum. Situated respectively on the outer and inner sides of the palm are the thenar and hypothenar eminences, the former being composed of muscles acting on the thumb, the latter con- sisting of the small muscles of the little finger. The skin of the palm is thick, and contains neither hair nor sebaceous glands, but possesses an unusual number of sweat glands. The sub- cutaneous tissue in the palm is sparse, but the skin is well supported by the palmar fascia, and thus enabled easily to resist the pressure to which it is so frequently exposed. This fascia, too, affords protection to the underlying vessels and nerves. The superficial palmar arch crosses the palm in a manner represented by a curved 4