180 HEREDITY must be found for the fact that a belief in telegony is widespread among practical breeders. Telegony has been alleged to occur in man, horses, cattle, sheep, pigs, dogs, etc., and even in pigeons, but even the most circumstantially recorded cases, such as Lord Morton's Arab mare, are far from satisfactory, and the majority cannot be called scientific data at all. In his "Penycuik Experiments" Cossar Ewart (1899) proved this at least, that telegony does not generally occur even when favourable conditions are afforded ; only in a very small percentage of cases was there anything even suggestive of telegony. Moreover, where peculiar phenomena of inheritance were observed they seemed to be readily explicable on the " reversion hypothesis." The general nature of the experiments may be illustrated by one of the best cases. A Rum pony mare " Midatto," of remarkably pure breed, was served by aBurchell zebra stallion "Matopa," and the result (in August 1896) was " Romulus," whose markings were quite different from those of his sire, being suggestive rather of the Somaliland zebra. In 1897 "Mulatto" had a bay colt foal to a grey Arab stallion, and this foal — unfortunately short-lived — gave no evi- dence of telegony. The stripes which most frequently occur in horses were absent; there were others which are not uncommon in horses; but the most distinct markings (not that any were strongly developed), namely, those aci'oss the croup, were of a sort extremely rare both in foals and horses. In short, the marking of " Mulatto's " second foal was puzzling, but in no definite way suggestive of the influence of the previous zebra sire. In this, as in other cases, the verdict as to the occurrence of telegony was non-proven. It is evident, however, that if telegony be a reality wliich occurs very rarely and under peculiar conditions, the probabilities are many against an experimenter realising these conditions in a short time ; and therefore it is interesting to notice that Karl Pearson, working by statistical methods, was unable to find any quantitative evidence of a steady telegonic influence in man. Till we are sure of the facts to be explained, the discussion of interpretations is gratuitous, but a brief summary may be given, (a) It has been suggested that the phenomena are simply illustrations of reversion, and that the resem- blance between the offspring and a previous sire with which it has no genetic relation is a coinci- dence. The plausibility of this explanation will vary in different cases. Thus, Finn points out that the occurrence of feather-legged fowls from l)ure Dorking parents, or of polled lambs from black-faced horned parents, cannot be set down to reversion, " feather-legged fowls and polled sheep not being ancestral types." All depends, however, on the pi'oved purity of the parent breed. {h) Another theory interprets telegony as due to maternal impression, the supposition being that the mental image, etc., produced in the mother by the first sire exerts an influence on subsequent germs, or on their development by another sire. But see " Maternal Im- pressions." (c) Weismann and others have suggested that spermatozoa of the first sire may reach the ovary, and become associated with immature ova, or may be in some way stored : and that a belated fertilisation may coincide in time with a second coitus by a different sire, to which the offspring would be natui-ally referred. Were this the case, we should expect to find cases where offspring were produced without any second sire at all, and no such cases (among higher animals at least) are known, (c?) Some- what subtler is the suggestion—often called the " infection hypothesis " — that the seminal matter of the first sire may, apart from the fertilisation of an ovum or ova, influence the reproductive organs or the constitution of the mother in such a way that subsequent gestations (following impregnation by another sire) may be affected. The probability of some physiological influence is probable, but it is difficult to con- ceive that the influence should be of so precise a nature as to evoke in offspring by a second sire a resemblance of the first, (e) Perhaps the most plausible theory is, that the mother is influenced through the foetus during pregnancy, and that the influence reacts on subsequent offspring. This so - called " saturation hypo- thesis " suggests that some of the characteristics of the sire, while expressing themselves in the development of the embryo, may, as it were, saturate into the dam, and affect her constitution in such a precise way that her offspring by subsequent sires may through maternal influence be affected with some of the characteristics of the first. Thus, Sir William Turner (1889), in discussing Lord Morton's case, says : " I believe that the mother had acquired during her long gestation with the hybrid the power of trans- mitting quagga-like characters from it, owing to the interchange of material which had taken place between them in connection with the nutrition of the young one. ... In this way the germ-plasm of the mother, belonging to ova which had not yet matured, had become modified whilst still lodged in the ovary. This acquired modification had influenced her futiu'e offspring derived from that germ-plasm, so that they in turn, though in more diluted form, exhibited zebra-like markings." It is conceivable that something like this may occur in the case of a poison or protective antitoxin, which might diffuse in and out. We can imagine that a sire infected with some virulent disease, and show- ing certain structural disturbances associated therewith, may have offspring which are similarly affected, and that the influence from them may pass before their birth into the constitution of the mother, and so aftect her that subsequent offspring by a healthy sire are diseased after the