104 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM A hypertrophied heart may assume consider- able proportions and increase greatly in weight. The 9 ounces of the normal heart may fre- quently be doubled, often reaching 25 or 30 ounces, and have been known to touch 46^ ounces. Much discussion has taken place as to the actual change in the muscle elements. It would appear that there is an increase both in the size and number of the cells. Dilata- tion is occasionally detected as a primary con- dition, but usually occurs in combination with more or less hypertrophy, the latter process tending to stay the former. Sometimes dilata- tion may occur as an acute condition, as for example in the kidney affections of scarlet fever, but usually it is rather of a chronic and progressive development. While the predispos- ing causes are many and often obscure, the exciting influences may be readily grouped into two classes: those acting (i.) by diminishing the contractile power of the muscle, and (ii.) by increasing the pressure to be overcome. In the former class may be placed conditions of atrophy and degeneration, some forms of infiltra- tions, and most inflammatory states of the myo- cardium. Certain cavities may be more markedly dilated than others, but frequently the whole organ is involved by a general dilatation. When only a part of a chamber is affected it is usual to speak of it as an "aneurysm of the heart." Symptomatology The symptoms of heart disease, whatsoever be its form, are very similar, and seeing that they for the most part depend on the same kind of disturbance in the circulation (resulting in venous stasis) of the different organs of the body, it is not surprising that this should be the case. It is on physical examination mainly that we depend, as already stated, for the differentiation of the causes of such disturb- ance that lie in the heart, but not entirely on this mode of investigation, seeing that it alone will sometimes entirely fail to enable us to form a diagnosis worthy of the name, which atten- tion to the history of the patient will enable us at once to accomplish. This statement will be made clearer by taking two actual cases in illustration:—A man aged forty complains of the following symptoms: shortness of breath on any exertion, dropsy of the lower extremities, and some uneasiness referred to the right hj^po- chondriac region, the first progressive and of six months' duration, the second and third of six weeks' duration. Signs: On physical ex- amination the veins of the neck are seen to pulsate while the patient is upright: the heart is foimd to be somewhat enlarged ; over its apex there is a systolic murmur following the first sound, which latter is alone audible to the inferior angle of scapula behind, and the pulse is irregular. Now these conditions, we shall find, are common to two very different forms of heart disease—mitral stenosis and muscle failure. But the history of the patient will enable us at once to decide between them, for at the age of fifteen the patient had a severe attack of acute rheumatism and has been a temperate and careful liver. In short, the symptoms render cardiac disease probable; the signs confirm this opinion, but it is the history that enables us to make the diagnosis of mitral stenosis by informing us of the old attack of acute rheumatism which renders that lesion probable imder the circumstances. Again, in a man a few years older the symptoms and signs are closely similar, but the history excludes rheumatism and chorea, and proves that his " wind " was good up till the time of his leaving the army six years before, in which he could perform arduous drill with ease to the end, and reveals the fact that since leaving the army he has been a confirmed beer-drinker, and as a consequence has neglected his proper food. The case is one of alcoholic muscle failure of the heart. But let us suppose that the patient is sixty years of age and had an attack of acute rheu- matism at thirty-five, while his cardiac symptoms are of comparatively recent date, say five years' duration, the same physical signs will in the presence of the history leave us somewhat in doubt as to the possibility of there being stenosis as well as senile muscle failure. Still the age at the time of the rheumatism and the recent development of the symptoms of dis- turbance of the circulation render it probable that the case is one of primary muscle failure, and that the patient escaped any serious con- sequence of endocarditis. If the patient had aortic incompetence as his lesion, a similar question of pathological diagnosis may arise, and again probability would be in favour of the origin of the disease being degenerative and arising in the vessel, rather than rheumatic and arising in the valves. As regards symptoms, then, practically all forms of heart disease may be studied together : it is the physical signs they present that accom- plish their separation in the light of the past history of the patient and a knowledge of pathology. There are three symptoms that stand out pre-eminently from among the many to be con- sidered : these are dyspnoea, dropsy, and enlarged tender liver, and they may be regarded as the cardinal symptoms of heart disease. 1. Of the three, dyspnmi is probably always the first to manifest itself, though it occasionally happens that patients take no heed of it until dropsy supervenes, which iumiediately ahmns them and renders them observant. In such cases careful inquiry will almost invariably elicit evidence of failure of "wind" on exertion for some time before the appearance of dropsy.