92 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM It is certainly at present difficult, if not impossible, to apportion the relative import- ance of the different organisms in initiating and maintaining the morbid pi'ocess. In some instances the condition is apparently the direct result of some definite microbe, and where such can be proved to be the case, the term " in- fective " should be replaced by that of the specific agent, i.e. streptococcal endocarditis, gonococcal endocarditis. In not a few cases, however, the condition would appear to be the outcome of a mixed infection; at all events, either by later, or terminal, or post-mortem invasion, more than one form of microbe is present. But this is only in accordance with what is known to occur elsewhere in connection with infective processes. Unfortunately, examination of the blood during life does not usually afford positive results. The experimental establishment of endo- carditis need not be dwelt on here; suffice it to say that investigations on the lower animals —rabbits and dogs—have clearly demonstrated the possibility of developing a condition practi- cally identical with the malignant endocarditis of man. But there are important predisposing influ- ences. Malignant endocarditis is commonly found to be engrafted on a chronic inflam- matory or degenerative condition of the valves. Sometimes a malformation, possibly due to foetal endocarditis, has been noted. In some few instances an imperfect ventricular septum has been found. In an analysis of 65 fatal cases of malignant endocarditis occurring in the Manchester Royal Infirmary, of whom not quite 34 per cent gave a clear history of rheumatism, in no less than 50 or 77 per cent was there distinct evidence of old endocardial mischief. In 2 there was adherent pericardium ; mitral stenosis existed in 9 ; aortic stenosis in 2. In one there was congenital malformation. In another the aorta was narrowed and thickened. In several the affected valves were also the seat of calcareous deposition. In only 12 of the cases were there fairly reliable grounds for believing that the valves had been normal previous to the development of the malignant endocarditis. Occasionally in the course of acute poly- articular rheumatism malignant endocarditis develops. Usually, however, rheumatic fever gives rise to the simple or benign form, and it is quite possible that the " rheumatic " pains complained of in some infective cases should be looked upon as of a septic nature. Chorea also, although quite exceptionally, is followed by malignant endocarditis. As already indicated, the oi-gauisms of not a few of tlie general infectioiis diseases are capable, luider certain circumstances, of acting as special pathogenic excitants to the cardiac valves. Chief amongst these may be enumerated pysemia, erysipelas, pneumonia, typhoid, diph- theria, scarlet fever, influenza, dysentery, and malaria. Malignant endocarditis sometimes follows par- turition, when it may be considered as secondary to a puerperal septic infection. Suppurative conditions may lead to this form of cardiac involvement. Pyogenic organisms not infrequently gain access to the blood-stream from a local collection of pus or from suppu- rating wounds. Thus such conditions as empyema, local purulent peritonitis, otitis media, suppurative meningitis, suppurative cholecystitis, have been followed by malignant endocarditis. It must not be forgotten that when the case comes under observation, no trace of the channel of infection may be detected, and the patient may make no mention of one ever having existed. Traumatism in the form of injuries to the external surfaces of the body, or internal surface membranes, may become of etiological import- ance, in so far as thereby channels for the invasion of organisms ai-e established. There is also reason to believe that blows on the chest occasionally lead to the development of an infective endocarditis, possibly by producing some minute injury to the valve segments or endocardium, and so affording access to organ- isms which may be present in the blood. Season and climate have been thought to be of some moment. It has been suggested that malignant endocarditis occurs most frequently in the autumn months, but this is verj^ doubtful. In some parts of the country it seems to be much more frequently met with than in others. Some have attempted to show that the affection was connected with decaying vegetation. Malaria probably does not do more than predispose. It is reasonable to believe that all conditions lead- ing to deterioration of health should be credited as being more or less influential as predisposing factors. Men are considerably more liable than women. Of 65 fatal Manchester cases 46 were men, 15 women, 3 boys, and 1 girl; that is, 49 males and 16 females, or a percentage of a little over 75 for men and nearly 25 for women. Malignant endocarditis is essentially a disease of adult life. The large majority of cases are met with between the ages of 20 and 40. In the cases referred to the average age was 30^ years. The youngest was 6; the oldest 72 years. Morbid Anatomy.—The extent and character of the lesions met with in the heart vary con- siderably. An attempt has been made to recog- nise varieties according to the predominant feature, (i.) vegetative, (ii.) ulcerative, and (iii.) suppurative, but such a division does little more