HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF 67 of the aortic bulb the puhiionary arteries come into being. At the caudal end of the heart certain changes occur in the embrj'onic venous system, Figs. 2 and 3.—MuscnUir and endothelial lieart of the embryo (His). S.t: .sinus vestibuli H.o. auricle ; C.u. auricnlar canal; V.I. left ventricle ; C.s. conns arterio.sus. which result in the persistent veins. In the pre-placental embryo venous blood is collected from the vascular area, and brought into the body by two large vitelline or omphalo-meseraic veins, whose destiny is to become the portal venous system of the adult. With the appear- ance of the placenta blood is brought from that important organ by two umbilical veins ulti- mately fused into one in the cord, but persistent for a time thereafter as two in the abdominal cavity. The umbilical and vitelline veins, to- gether with the duct of Cuvicr—a trunk which collects the blood from the upper or jugular section of the primitive venous sj'stem and the lower or cardinal—open into the right and left venous sinuses which are continuous with the auricular heart. These sinuses ultimately coalesce, and the dextral entrances constitute the inlets of the permanent systemic venous system, while the pulmonary veins, after the formation of the lungs, enter the sinistral portion of the sinus. We have seen that in the formation of the ultimate arterial system a larger portion of the right than of the left aortic arches is obliterated in the course of development. In the early bilateral venous system the reverse is the case. In the establishment of the persistent veins a larger portion of the left than of the right primitive system is obliterated, except in rare and exceptional instances. The arteries, like the projected arterial stream, grow into the body; the veins, like the returning venous current, grow in a measui'e out of it. Thus, with the formation of an obliquely transverse communication between the upper part of the left primitive jugular vein and the lower part of the right corresponding vessel, the current from the lower portion of the vessel on the left is in great measure diverted from it, and the channel shrinks finally to obliteration, with the exception of a portion at its lower end which persists as the coronary sinus, and a part at the upper end which I'emains as the superior intercostal vein. The transverse branch, and the cause of this diversion of current, becomes the left innominate vein, the future important recipient of the chief lymph stream from the thoracic duct. The re- lation of the thoracic duct and vein is of practical moment in retrograde stasis due to heart disease. A similar but reversed process meanwhile takes place between the left and right cardinal veins. An obliquely transverse com- munication is established between the lower portion of the left and the upper part of the right cardinal vein, and persists as the vena azygos minor.' It coalesces with the i-ight cardinal vein to con- stitute the larger azygos vein. The confluence of the left and right innominate veins thus constitutes the mighty stream of the superior vena cava, which is further swollen before it t:c.S. Fig. 4.—Septatim of the lieart of the human embryo (Quain after His). V.c.s. vena cava .superior; s.sp. septum spurium ; septum superior; Ku.t: Eustachian valve; s.r. sinus venosus; r.a. right auricle; La. left auricle; au.v. auricular canal; s.iiif. septum inferior; r.i\ right ventricle ; I,v. left \ entricle. debouches into the right auricle by receiving the vena azygos major. The veins from both sides of the body have meanwhile coalesced more or less in the middle line to form the inferior vena cava.