HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF 71 second, of which he apportions 0-3 second to ventriculai- systole, and 0'5 second to complete ventricular diastole which includes 0*1 second for auricular systole. In these calculations the heart is assumed to maintain an average rate ■of 72 beats to the minute (op. cit. p. 264) With these movements of the heart two sounds and two pauses are associated. The ■first, a long, booming sound, occupies a con- siderable portion of ventricular systole, and is most intensely heard near its commencement; the second, a short, sharp sound, occurs during a small portion of ventricular diastole at its commencement. Between the first and second sounds there is a short pause difficult of measurement, and between the second and following first sound a considerable and more easily appreciable pause not audibly broken by the systole of the auricles. These facts may be represented in the diagrammatic manner first employed by Sir William Gairdner of Glasgow, and which has been variously modified by sub- sequent writers. The explanation of pauses in action is of course easy. Absence of action is of necessity as noiseless as death itself. The short pause ensues when ventricular systole is spent. It is virtually the commencement of ventricular diastole, which is only broken by a brief passive event,—the closure of the semilunar valves, which emit a short, sharp sound on closing under the influence of blood-pressure in the aorta and pulmonary artery. The cause of the first sound has been much debated, and an ex- amination of the method of its production has a practical interest. It may be heard when the thorax is opened artificially, and also when the heart is exposed by congenital defect in the chest wall. It cannot, therefore, be due to the heart being contained in the thorax, or to the impact of its apex against the chest wall. The events accompanying it are : (1) systole of the ventricles; (2) opening of the semilunar and closing of the mitral and tricuspid valves; (3) the pressure of blood upon all the constituents of the chamber which contains it; (4) the rise of this pressure over that of the column of blood contained in the efferent arteries; and (5) the consequent passage of blood into these. Foster (op. cit. p. 240), without entering into details, states that if the ventricular portion of the heart be cut off below the level of the am-iculo-ventricular valve, the detached portion may be heard to emit sound. If this be so, it is highly suggestive of muscular contraction playing a part in the production of the sound, but that part may be a A^ery small one. As regards the obscuration of a sound or soimds of the heart by defect in its valvular apparatus, careful clinical observation in many cases and in all varieties of valvular disease lias convinced the writer that such obscuration is in direct pro- portion to the amount of noise generated and not to the extent of the lesion present in any particular valve. He has also known the heart- sounds to be clearly audible without murmur when both aortic and mitral valves were much diseased and the heart beating very feebly at a rate of 150 in the minute. The clear sounds probably arose in this case in the right vent- ricle, which was ascertained to be sound at the necropsy. In determining experimentally the Fig. S.—A.S., auricular systole; V.S., ventricular systole; V.D., ventricular diastole ; I", 3", 4", notation of time occupied by phases in cardiac cycle; St.P., short pause; Lg.P., long pause ; 1st Sd., first sound ; 2nd Sd., second sound. role of the valves in the production of the first sound, not only one but all four would have to be placed out of action during cardiac systole. This has never been done so^ far as the writer is aware. Although Dr. Halford (The Action and Sounds of the Heart, p. 2-5, 1860) believed that the first sound of the heart was due to tension and vibra- tion of the auriculo-ventricular valves dviring ventricular systole, he proved on several occa- sions, by careful experiment before capable and credible witnesses, that when the systemic venous inflow was prevented by forceps, and in addition the flow from the pulmonary veins by grasping them between the fingers, sound ceased to be emitted during systole, and returned immediately blood was again allowed to enter the heart. Drs. Yeo and Barret (Journal of Physiology, vol. vi. p. 145) repeated Halford's experiment, but without grasping the pulmonary veins at the root of the lungs. They found that under these circumstances cardiac systole was still accompanied by some, but greatly diminished sound. Dr. Arthur Leared argued and endeavoured to prove that the cause of sound during systole was not in the apparatus of circulation, but in the blood itself, and be- lieved that the impact of the inoving ventri- cular blood against the more stationary aortic blood was the essential cause of the first sound of the heart (Essay on the Sounds caused by the Circulation of the Blood, London, 1861).