HETERODYMUS 216 HeterodymuS. — An asymmetrical double monster in which the parasitic foetus (consisting of little more than a head) is attached to the thorax of the autosite. HeterOg'eneOUS. — Of a mixed char- acter, in opposition to homogeneous; thus a heterogeneous tumour is one consisting of tissues derived from the different layers of the blastoderm. HeterolOg^OUS.—Usually employed in the sense of being different from the normal tissue of the part. HeteromorphOUS.—Ofabnormalform or structure; of the nature of a malformation or anomaly. HeterOpclg'USa — An asymmetrical double monster in which the imperfect parasitic foetus (with a rudimentary head) is attached to the thorax of the autosite. H ete ro p h O n i a. — An abnormality in voice, or the articulation of words diff'erent from those intended to be used {heterolalia). Heterophoria. See Strabismus {Con- comitant Squint). HeterOplasty.—A surgical procedure in which portions of one organism are transplanted into another, e.g. a piece of ovary from one woman to another ("heteroplastic ovarian graft- ing "), or a piece of skin from one person to another as in the Indian form of rhinoplasty. Hetero proteose. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Gastric Digestion, Proteo- lytic Period). HeterosCOpe.—A device for the orthop- tic treatment of strabismus. See Strabismus {Treat7nent, orthoptic). Heterotaxy.—Inversion or transposition of the viscera; situs inversus; situs mutatus. See Teratology {Heterotaxy). Heterotopia.—Displacement of an organ or tissue {e.g. the occurrence of the grey matter ill the spinal cord between the white columns). Hetero-typus. —- An asymmetrical double monster in which the parasitic foetus (more or less defective) is attached to the anterior aspect of the autosite. Hetol.—The cinnamate of sodium, recom- mended (in the form of intravenous or of local injections) in tuberculosis, alone or in associa- tion with hetokresol (cinnaniic-acid-metakresyl- ester). Hetralin. —^Dioxybenzol hexamethylene- tetramine; recommended as a urinary anti- septic, in daily doses of from 24 to 4.5 grains, in gonorrhoea, cystitis, etc. Hexadactylism. — Polydactylism in which the nmnber of digits is increased to six. Hey'S Amputation.. See Amputa- tions {Lower Extremity). IHiatUS.—An opening or cleft, e.g. hiatus dia-phragmatis aorticus, the foramen in the dia- phragm through which the aorta passes. Hiccoug^li. Definition . . . . . .216 Etiology. . . . ■ . . .216 Symptoms . . . . . .217 Treatment . . . . . .217 See also Alcoholism {Visceral Variations); Brain, Tumours of {Symj^toms, Respiration); Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, Algid State); Diaphragm {Spasm); Gastro-Intestinal Dis- orders OF Infancy {Disorders of Digestion, Hic- cough) ; Hypnotism {Therajieutic Uses); Liver {Perihepatitis, Symptoms) ; Mediastinum {Groivths, Symptoms); Physiology, Eespiration {Special Respiratory Movements) ; Spasm {Hysterical); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Fracture - Dislocation, Symj:)toms) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications); URiiiMiA {Sympjtoms, Respiratory). Hiccough ; Hiccup ; Singultus. Hiccough is usually described as being produced by a sudden descent of the diaphragm, accompanied by a spasmodic closure of the glottis, the character- istic sound being due to the inrushing column of air striking against the closed vocal cords. While there is no doubt as to the part that the diaphragm plays, the exact condition of the glottis is more open to question. Poore considers that the assumption of a spasmodic closiire of the glottis is not warranted, and it certainly seems difficult to understand why any such closure should occur, when it is remembered that during the descent of the diaphragm in ordinary respiration the glottis is dilated. It seems reasonable to suppose, therefore, that the closure during hiccup is only a relative one, due not to any spasm of the adductors of the lai-ynx, but rather to a want of action of the dilators, the correlation between these latter and the diaphragm ceasing to exist when the diaphragm contracts irregularly and serves no useful part in respiration. Etiology.—Hiccough may be central or peri- pheral in origin. Irritation of the phrenic nerve in any part of its course may gi^'e rise to ir- I'egular diaphragmatic contractions, and in this way hiccough has been produced by tmnours and other irritating lesions of the neck. Most commonly, however, hiccough is a reflex act, the pneumogastric usually being the afferent nerve. Flatulence, overloading of the stomach,