32 HEMOGLOBINURIA Raynaud's disease without haimoglobinuria this second factor is wanting. Tenderness in the region of the liver and spleen have occasionally been observed, and even palpable enlargement of those organs. The general symptoms above mentioned vary in individual cases, and only a selection of them is usually present. However, in any given case the symptoms tend to be fairly constant, each successive paroxysm resembling those which have gone before. Thus one patient stated that he always experienced numbness of all his fingers and of his great toes, whilst in another case the parjesthesia was always most marked in the ring and little fingers, and especially in those of the left hand. Again, the distribution of the pains in the trunk and limbs tends to repeat itself. In one case the attack will always be ushered in by a pain down the back, in another by aching in the loins and thighs. The number and intensity of the symptoms present are also apt to vary with the severity of the attack, which, again, is usually in pro- portion to the degree and duration of the ante- cedent exposure to cold. Unless some permanent renal affection be present the urine shows nothing abnormal in the intervals between the attacks. The onset of hasmoglobinuria usually occurs an hour or so after the exposure, and it may be preceded by a simple albuminuria. In some instances the urine has contained an excess of urobilin after the attack, but I have never observed this. Possibly it only occurs when the attack is accompanied by jaundice. The characteristic urine is usually acid and often strongly so, but in some recorded cases it has been constantly alkaline. The specific gravity is as a rule lowered (1010-1015). Its colour varies from ruby red to that of porter, and in thick layers it may appear almost black. The blood pigment may be present in the form of oxy- or methfemoglobin, and most frequently the spectroscope shows the bands of both those pigments. The presence of methfemoglobin is evidenced by its characteristic band in the red, and that of oxyhaemoglobin by the intensity of its bands near D and E, which far exceeds that of the corresponding bands of the spectrum of methse- moglobin. Copeman found that, in his case, when the urine was drawn off by catheter at short intervals it showed the bands of oxyhaemoglobin only, whereas when it remained longer in the bladder it contained methtemoglobin. In some cases examined by the present writer, the band in red of methajmoglobin was clearly visible immediately after the urine was passed, even when the bladder had been emptied not long pi-eviously, but the specimens were not drawn off" by the catheter. Copeman further believes that, on standing, a portion of the excreted hsemoglobin luidergoes a further change to acid hsematin, and this is one of the many points coimected with this disease which calls for further investi- gation. The presence of methsemoglobin is no special feature of the urine of paroxysmal heemoglobinuria, nor, indeed, of hasmoglobinuria in general as distinguished from hasmaturia. Hoppe Seyler stated that blood pigment is always passed in the urine in the form of methajmogiobin, and that it changes to oxy- hsemoglobin on standing. That such a change takes place in ordinaiy smoky urines it is easy to convince one's self, but the rate of change varies widely in different specimens. The most striking microscopical feature of the urine is the absence of red blood corpuscles. It is true that a few are sometimes seen in the sediment, but they bear no proportion to the colour, and their presence is not improbably due to temporary changes in the kidney resulting from the unwonted calls upon them. Such renal changes have been observed in animals after transfusion of foreign blood. The urine deposits a copious dark brown sedi- ment, which consists of granular haemoglobin debris, and sometimes of urates mixed with such debris. Casts of renal tubules composed of brown granules are usually present in large numbers, as they also are in the urine of the various forms of toxic hsemoglobinuria and of trans- fusion cases. Crystals of calcium oxalate are very frequently seen in such urines, but as yet there is no evidence that their presence has any special pathological significance. The free passage, through kidneys ordinarily proteid-tight, of such large quantities of proteid material is a matter of considerable interest, which may be compared with the excretion in the urine of other foreign proteids, such as egg albumin, after injection into the circulation of an animal. Some recent researches of Brodie suggest, however, that the physical properties of hsemoglobin may aid in its elimination, as it is found to pass more readily through a perfused kidney or a Martin's filter than either serum albumin or globulin. Serum albumin is also usually present in small amount in the dark urine of the paroxysm, and some albuminuria may persist for a time after the htemoglobinuria has passed away. Again, in some cases slighter exposures are followed by albuminuria, and more severe ones by hsemoglobinuria; and Ralfe suggested that the transitory or paroxysmal albuminuria of apparently healthy individuals is really a minor manifestation of the disease under discussion— its " petit mal," as Bristowe happily styled it. The low specific gravity of the urine passed during the paroxysm suggests a diminished excretion of the heavier urinary constituents, due to blocking of the renal tubules with htemoglobin debris, and in some forms of toxic