100 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM petence. The importance of muscular strain in such states as those above indicated, or indeed in any condition of cardiac debility, is self- evident. Mitral incompetence due to gross lesion of the valve itself is, of course, strictly speaking, in- ciirable, although adequate cardiac action, if compensation be established, may be maintained for years. Incompetence from muscle failure, on the other hand, may be to all intents and purposes curable, provided that the influences productive of the muscle failure can be removed and the state of normal nutrition re-established. Morbid Anatomy.—As already indicated, two distinct classes are to be recognised:—(i.) Incom- petence from primary valvular defect; (ii.) Incompetence from muscular weakness. The valvular defects are such as have been previously described. They consist of a thicken- ing, puckering, and shrinking of the curtains of the mitral, with usually more or less shorten- ing, thickening, and induration of the tendinous cords. In a very considei'able number of the cases which clinically presented the classic indications of mitral incompetence narrowing of the mitral orifice is found. The muscle failure may manifest itself patho- logically by dilatation of the ventricular cavity and simple enlargement of the auriculo-ventri- cular orifice, but these conditions will be best referred to later. Affections of the Pulmonary Valves Lesions limited to the pulmonary valves and orifice are rare. Sometimes, however, the pulmonary artery and valves are involved in association with or secondary to affections of the left side of the heart. Two conditions are of clinical importance :— (i.) Pulmonai-y stenosis; (ii.) Pulmonary in- competence. Pulmonary Stenosis. — Obstruction at the pulmonary orifice may be of (i.) congenital origin, or (ii.) acquired subsequent to birth. Congenital pulmonary stenosis constitutes one of the commonest varieties of cardiac malforma- tion. It is frequently associated with imperfec- tion of the auricular and ventricular septa and patency of the ductus Botalli. All degrees may be met with up to complete occlusion of the orifice and atresia of the pulmonary artery. It is often difficult, both clinically and patho- logically, to distinguish between a stenosis of congenital or acquired origin. Primary pulmonary stenosis, arising subse- quent to birth, is exceedingly rare. AVhen met with it is usually dependent on old endocarditis of rheumatic nature. In not a few of the recorded cases the etiology has been obscure. The valves are thickened, often rigid, and even infiltrated with lime salts. The edges of the cusps may be fused and a funnel-shaped channel so produced, the ape.x directed upwards towards the pulmonary artery. The orifice may be diminished to a mere slit. Vegetations may be present, and so still further narrow the orifice. Occasionally in malignant endocarditis large fungating vegetations form on the pulmonary cusps and partially obstruct the orifice. Obstruction has been met with at a point beneath the pulmonary valves. The walls of the conus arteriosus are thickened, rigid, and contracted, as from old ventricular endocarditis. There may be recent vegetations about the indurated region. Obstruction has also been known to arise from chronic atheroma of the pulmonary arteiy. In all cases of pulmonary stenosis the right ventricle will be found hypertrophied, and usually with its cavity dilated. The pulmonary artery, as already indicated, while generally involved in the congenital cases of stenosis, does not usually present much change in the acquired form. Pulmonary Incompetence.—Incompetence of the pulmonary valves may arise from the follow- ing causes :— (i.) Primary disease of the valve segments. This may occur: (a) in pulmonary stenosis; (b) chronic endocarditis and sclerosed conditions of the sigmoid cusps unassociated with stenosis ; (c) in malignant endocarditis; and {d) in the very doubtful cases of laceration from trauma. (ii.) Secondary involvement of the valve : in {a) dilatation of the pulmonary artery; (6) pressure on the orifice and valves from without as very exceptionally in aortic aneui-ysm. It will thus be seen that the mechanical defect of pulmonary leakage may arise from several causes. In some instances the condition is undoubtedly of congenital origin, but it is then usually associated with obstruction of the orifice. Probably the so-called simple pulmonary endocarditis is of rheumatic origin. In not a few cases, however, of advanced aortic and mitral disease we have found a certain degree of induration of the pulmonary segments, and it seems quite feasible to believe that this thickening is due to excessive pressure, and is allied to atheromatous disease of the aorta. Simple valvular disease of the pulmonary cusps presents the usual appearances of a chronic, inflammatory, and degenerative process. The segments are indurated, puckered, and do not approximate, but allow of free leakage. The right ventricle and right auricle become hypertrophied and dilated. The pulmonary artery may be normal in size, dilated, or even contracted in some cases. A relative or functional incompetency of the pulmonary valves may occur as a natural adaptation, as in cases of persistent high pul- monary pressure. In advanced mitral stenosis, however, the