HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF 236 be a combination of actual and apparent shortening. It is a remarkable fact that when dislocation has occuiTed there may be less complaint of pain or of " startings " than before, and passive movements may be elicited which up till then were impossible. Bilateral Hip Disease. Crossed-Leg De- formity.—In the same way that any two or more joints may be simultaneously or succes- sively the seat of tuberculous disease both hip- joints may become affected, each running its course independently of the other. The peculi- arity of the bilateral affection is that the patient is necessarily confined to the recumbent posture until the disease has completely recovered, and that his capacity for standing and walking in the future may be seriously impaired, especially if the disease has cured with rigidity or anky- losis in both joints, and still more so if the joints have become fixed in an undesirable attitude; the length and the attitude of the limbs may not be the same; the most striking deformity is where both limbs are adducted so that they cross each other, this being known as the " scissor-leg " or " crossed-leg " deformity, in which the patient, if able to walk at all, does so by alternate forward movements from the knees. Where there is bilateral ankylosis the treatment consists in mobilising one joint by osteotomy or resection, and according to the result obtained, resting satisfied with the ankylosis on the other side, or correcting it by osteotomy or excision. If both hips have become rigid in the abducted position, one must be made movable by osteo- tomy or excision. Diagnosis of Hip Disease.—The diagnosis is to be made not only from other affections of the joint itself, but also from morbid conditions in the vicinity of the hip, since in any one of these the patient may be brought for advice on account of pain in the region concerned and a limp in walking. Whenever possible the patient should be stripped; if able to walk, his gait should be observed ; he is then examined in the recumbent position, and attention is directed to the com- parative length of the limbs, to the attitude of the limbs and pelvis, and to the movements at the hip-joint, especially those of rotation. Whenever there is any doubt as to the diagnosis, both hips should be skiagraphed ; the examina- tion above described should be repeated at intervals of a week or ten days until a con- clusion is reached. In children there are three non-febj-ile conditions attended with a limp and with shortening of the limb, which may be mis- taken for hip disease, viz. congenital dislocation, coxa vara, and infantile 2M')'alysis, but in all of these the normal movements are less restricted than in disease of the joint, and the history of onset would be different. Cases of hip-joint disease which have recovered after the occurrence of dislocation maj- be difficult to recognise from the congenital variety in the absence of a trust- worthy histoiy, since the range of movement may be the same in both affections. In sacro-iliac disease the pelvis may be tilted, and the limb apparently longer on the affected side, but the movements at the hip are retained. I71 disease of the great trochanter the resem- blance to morbus coxae is very close indeed ; there may be abduction, eversion, impairment of mobility, and swelling in the region of the trochanter, going on to abscess. The movements are less restricted than in disease of the joint, still the diagnosis may not be completed until the swelling about the trochanter is explored by operation, and this should not be delayed other- wise the disease may extend to the joint. The same remarks apply to disease of the bursce over the great trochanter, especially of the bursa beneath the aponeurosis of the gluteus maximus. In lesions of the psoas muscle, or of the bursa underneath the psoas, the limb may be flexed and everted, there may be lordosis, the patient may walk with a limp, and there may be no other signs of spinal disease ; the diagnosis is made by testing the movements at the hip; in com- mencing psoas abscess, the movements are only restricted or absent in the direction opposed to the existing attitude, whereas in hip disease they are restricted or absent in all directions, especially abduction and rotation. Appendicitis in children, when associated with flexion, has been mistaken for hip disease through omitting to test the movements of the joint in other directions. Disease of the lymphatic glands in the groin may cause flexion and a limp in walking; it should be remembered that tuberculous lympha- denitis may be met with as a complication of hip disease, i.e. the two conditions may coexist. Growth fever and other mild for'ms of osteo- myelitis of the neck of the femur may simulate hip disease, but they are more likely to be attended with pyrexia, there is greater tender- ness over the bone, the movements at the joint are less restricted, and there is more decided improvement after resting in bed. Gummatous epiphysitis is a very rare affection met with in syphilitic children; it is attended with greater swelling and tenderness, and there is less voluntary power over the limb. Sciatica has been mistaken for hip disease as a result of careless examination ; in cases of sciatica flexion at the hip is only restricted when the leg is extended on the thigh. Ifeiv groivths in the vicinity of the hip, and especially a commencing sarcoma of the upper end of the femur, may be very difficult to differentiate from hip disease, especially where the symptoms develop after a fall, when there is abduction or adduction, and where there is an ill-defined swelling about the trochanter. The movements lat the joint are only restricted in certain directions in the case of sarcoma.