INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 473 one person's habits with those of another is the observation of change in the individual. And it is a curious fact that mental disorder is gener- ally associated with a change from the correct towards the disreputable. It is not often that one is alarmed by an access of propriety in a patient. But any change, especially in adult life, is noteworthy. In the insane it is remark- able how great is the departure from the wonted, and that often without any apparent conscious impulse or intention. Regarding insanity, as we must, as a sub- version of self-direction and the ascendancy of disordered nerves, impulse becomes very im- portant. But the facts regarding impulse are so obvious that we need not dwell upon them. It is enough to revert to the possibilities that lie under the surface of the human brain. In any of the mechanisms to which we have re- ferred—mechanisms which in sane life are sub- ordinated to a general purpose—an excess of activity, occasioned by illness and the failure of the normal, may spring an impulse upon the unwary mind. And such impulses are as strong as those which are occasioned by normal con- ditions and which earn the mind's approval. And so, in various insanities, but especially in alcoholism, and in the insanities of the degener- ate, an impulse, however preposterous or danger- ous, may possess the consciousness just as an obsession may swamp all thought; and, unless prevented, the impulse will be realised in act. Like obsessions, these impulses are to be dis- cerned as they are more or less at variance with the patient's habitual personality. Homicidal impulse, for example, may as a rule be taken to be due to an activity in mechanisms with which the patient has not been much in contact. Less insane impulses are of course commoner, and, equally of course, less observed—impulses to do just not quite what would have been done in health. Moral Sense and Sense op Fitness.—By instinct, by education, and sometimes by con- viction, our minds learn to know and to approve the right. The difficulties that beset any in- quiry into the nature of that knowledge are great. But, as physicians, we have to regard moral life as of the same nature as other activities of the mind. Whatever be the code to which we have been born, and in which we have been brought up, our apprehension of it implies the development of an organ to repre- sent it. These mechanisms are no more, but rather less, detached than others; they are, like others, related to all consciovis life, capable of contact with the great mass of subconscious processes, and subject to disorder and degenera- tion. A less dignified function, but strictly analogous, is that which approves what is fit and proper—a function which relates to manners rather than to morals. That our appreciation of the good and of the proper is largely instinc- tive there can be no doubt. The brain is pre- pared to react to moral as to other stimuli. Many patients manifest an instinctive disability in this regard, are not easily made to under- stand what is right, and, when they do under- stand it, are not convinced. And, just as we have perversions of other instincts, so also of this; and men and women are to be found who are carried away by a zeal for this or that other virtue which the level saint regards as one amongst others. So too, in mental disorder, the moral sense often fails and shamelessness supervenes; or an extravagant conscience con- demns fiercely even the most trifling offences. Similarly, the sense of what is fit is so commonly lost in mental illness, that we hardly recognise it as a fact that the insane and the unhealthy- minded are unmannerly; and, on the other hand, we have sometimes to note an excessive punctiliousness as a symptom occasioned by cerebral change. Purpose, Intention, Ambition, Ideals.—We have already considered purpose in considering personality, and need only remark here that the function of prospecting life and of choosing a line is to be discriminated from that which gives effect to what has been chosen. In mental disorders they may be separately affected. A patient may conceive of life in disorderly fashion, may think the wrong things desirable, and may choose them, yet may carry out his wrong pur- poses with healthy vigour. Or ideals may re- main intact, yet conduct wholly fail to realise them—a disability which is too obvious and too familiar to require illustration. Conduct.—Downwards and outwards towards the muscles all mental activity eventually trends, at least in the healthy mind. Thoughts are to be spoken, affections to be demonstrated, pro- jects to be realised. And this process of ex- pression of one's personality would appear to be the last and highest function of life, the final task imposed upon nervous organisation. That failures occur in this function is veiy obvious; in fact nothing else in insanity comes under our notice. It is as the patient looks, and speaks, and acts, that we judge of his sanity or of his disorder. As a rule we infer that a foolish re- mark implies a foolish idea in the consciousness of the patient, but such an inference is not always just. Just as, in thoughtlessness, we say and do what has no significance to us, so, in mental disorders, much of conduct is without consciousness. In all excited states things are said and done which the patient probably does not choose to say and do. The mechanisms of speech and of deeds have the bit in their teeth and are entirely undirected from above. Or, what is equally common, there is simple abey- ance of expression. In mild disorders nothing is commoner than for the patient to complain that, while he can quietly and properly prospect what he should and will do, he finds to his dis-