HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 138 that the writer will make to the subject, but he takes the opportunity of I'eminding the reader of the immense influence exerted by exercise and cai'efiil feeding in the process of athletic train- ing, in which process no one can doubt that the heart is largely influenced—without exaggera- tion one may say chiefly influenced, seeing that it is " wind," so closely related to the heart's health, that dominates the successful result of the process. Without good "wind" dependent on a vigorous heart muscle the most perfect development of all the other muscles of the body would be rendered useless. But the fact is too obvious to require statement. It will be generally conceded that if a man has an aneurysm of his left ventricle, the result of an obliterated coronary branch, or if one or both of the main coronary vessels are narrowed at their orifices by chronic aortitis, nothing but disaster could follow his submission to treat- ment by exercise. Valve defect, however, is an intensely mechanical result of disease in the first instance, and the muscle of the heart may re- main for long perfectly sound in its presence, and therefore, we may say, capable of improve- ment in strength by the "gymnastic" process, but even in this case we must bear in mind that the heart muscle by virtue of such valve defect is always being, as it were, exercised to the full, and that it will not thus have the usual margin for impi'ovement in strength. There is no valve lesion that does not throw strain upon some part of the heart muscle, and the " soli- darity " of the organ must be remembered. When a patient comes seeking treatment for heart disease, it may be granted that he has, at least, the first of the cardinal symptoms— dyspnoea on exertion. Already, then, the cir- culation is disturbed, and the heai-t has begun to be overborne in the struggle. Rest, with the object of relieving the heart of its work, as far as that is possible, is now imperative, and rest alone will often suffice to turn the balance in favour of the heart, so that the circulation is restored and the disorder of functions, resulting from its disturbance, disappears. No doubt a large number of patients, who have all the three cardinal symptoms of heart disease and many subordinate ones, would recover with a profuse diuresis, unaided by any treatment by drugs, if it were the custom (and we are glad it is not)towithliold medicinal treatment for several days. The fact of some patients doing so, liowever, teaches an emphatic lesson as to the importance of rest, which should be absolute in order to yield its greatest benefits. Patients in advanced stages of heart disease will often say that rest in bed is impossible for tliem; this is true in a few cases, but only in a few. Patients, liowever, are often unable to lie down in bed (orthopna^a), but this is a much less important matter. When a patient will only sit in a chair, often leaning on the back of another chair or other piece of furniture, his dropsical legs are not likely to be relieved unless it be by acupuncture : on the contrary, their condi- tion is apt to be aggravated, and the tense skin may ultimately crack and exude serum, while an erythematous condition is apt to supervene, which rarely eventuates in sloughing. It is very desirable, then, that the sufferer from heart disease should remain in bed, though it is astonishing how frequently bed is energetically resisted by the patients who require it most. In hospital practice we find, however, that the number of patients who really cannot stay in bed owing to their dyspnoea is very small indeed, apparently not so much by persuasion being more successful as by force of example. The writer has reason to believe that the impera- tive necessity of rest in bed is often not sufficiently insisted on by the private practitioner; that is to say, the patient's consent is not obtained when it easily might be. One of the dangers of heavily narcotising a patient with severe heart disease is his being suffocated by mechanical interference with the upper air - passages, by bending his neck too acutely, or letting his head press upon folded arms and so forth, and such an accident is more likely to occur when the patient sits up in a chair. In the few cases referred to in which the patient must sit up, this necessity will often disappear in the course of a few days, during which medicinal treatment effects amelioration. The form of dyspnoea called " Cheyne-Stokes respiration " is often associated with distressing restlessness during the dyspnocal paroxysm, the patient often actually springing out of bed during the height of the seizure, a condition that seriously militates against the chances of recovery, otherwise small enough. Active de- lirium, again, is a serious symptom on its own account for the same reason ; but both Cheyne- Stokes respiration and delirium are symptoms for the most part met with only in the ad- vanced stages of heart disease, and in the most unmanageable forms of the disease, as that sequential to chronic Bright's disease. In conclusion of the subject of rest in the treatment of heart disease, the writer would emphasise the importance of a careful general survey of the whole case in determining the amount of rest to be enjoined, and especially, when that amount has been obtained, the im- portance of a gradual resumption of activity. All the benefit derivable from the rest may be flung away by injudicious management in this respect at the end. Nay, fatal syncope may be induced by the patient being stiddenly allowed to assume his wonted activity. But short of such an accident the faith of the patient in the efficacy of his enforced rest may be so shaken that he will never again submit to rest while he has the power of resisting it. Tlie Weir - ^Mitchell treatment has always seemed to the writer a method of accomplishing