INFLUENZA 433 Finkler observed 45 cases of influenzal pneu- monia, of which only 2 came under the descrip- tion of typical lobar pneumonia, while the other 43 were regarded as cases of the disease which he has often described as " Streptococcus Pneu- monia." Seven of his patients died, post- mortem examinations being made in three instances. He regarded the pathological con- dition as a preponderating cellular inflammation with participation of the interstitial tissue. The cellular nature of the inflammation, together with the pronounced tendency it exhibits to develop by spreading indefinitely, in Finkler's opinion justified him in describing this disease as an erysipelas of the lung. He points out that the resemblance of this form of pneumonia to erysipelas consists, not alone in the anatomi- cal characters of the inflammatory process, but also in the fact that both diseases depend on the presence of streptococci. Finkler looks upon this streptococcus pneumonia as a local- isation of the exciting cause of influenza in the lungs. As to this last point one would be more inclined to agree with Leyden and Levy that the question is much more one of a secondary infection, for which the influenza merely laid the foundation. It is to be remembered that the foregoing observations were made in connection with the great pandemicof influenza in 1889-90, antecedent therefore to the discovery by Pfeiffer in 1892 of the Bacillus iiifluenzce in the purulent bronchial secretion, and by Canon in the blood of patients suffering from epidemic influenza. That dis- covery must certainly be regarded as conclusive proof of the existence of a specific primary in- fection of the lungs to which all other infections are accidental and secondary. We may then conclude that PfeifFer's bacillus itself produces a catarrhal bronchitis and a pneumonia, while the presence of influenza pre- disposes to secondary infections of the lungs by the Diplococcus pneumoniw of Frankel, the Strep- tococcus erysipelatis of Fehleisen, the Bacillus pneumonim of Friedlander, and possibly the Staphylococcus pyogenes aiweus of Ogston. The pleura is often involved in the primary or secondary pathogenic processes of influenza. Researches carried out by a Collective Investi- gation Committee in Germany showed that the pleura became engaged in from 12 to 33 per cent of the cases of pneumonia complicating in- fluenza. At Riga Krannhals met with "exuda- tive pleuritis " in 12 out of 220 cases of influenza. In the Riga hospital there were 7 cases of pleural effusion among 87 cases of influenza. The exudation was, as a rule, sero-fibrinous, but in 6 instances it was purulent. The affection may supervene upon bronchitis without pneu- monia. The bacterial factor in its production is most frequently the Streptococcus pyogenes, but various staphylococci also play a prominent part in its etiology. Finkler of Bonn alludes to VOL. IV the intense dyspnoea which often attends the pleuritis of influenza — a dyspnoea which he rightly regards as not merely mechanical, but also probably toxtemic in its origin. Long ago Robert James Graves of Dublin gave a graphic description of the extraordinary dyspnoea wit- nessed in the influenza of 1836-37. According to him, " even in many cases where the bronchial mucous membrane is but slightly engaged, the amount of dyspnoea is remarkably great. In- deed, it might be said with mvich truth that the dyspnoea was by no means proportioned to the extent of pulmonary inflammation." Having pointed out that in many bad cases of influenza the dyspnoea is intermittent. Graves suggests that the respiratory derangement may depend on the same general cause which produces the whole train of symptoms, and that it might exist even where there was no bronchial inflammation at all. "The dyspnoea," he adds, "appears to be chiefly attributable to some impression made on the vital activity of the lung." Influenza is a perilous complication of pul- monary consumption. In London at the height of the epidemic of 1889-90 the weekly number of deaths from phthisis rose to double the aver- age. In Dublin phthisis caused 437 deaths in the first quarter of 1890, or an increase of 90 deaths, or 26 per cent, as compared with the average for the first quarter of the previous ten years. So long ago as 1803 Dr Woodford of Alms- ford wrote : " When the influenza attacked sub- jects apparently predisposed to phthisis, it never failed to increase and call into action the latent seeds of that disease, and in several instances to induce speedily a confirmed state of it, which quickly proved fatal." In this opinion most students of influenza will agree, although there have been a few dissentients from time to time. We are thoroughly in accord with Dr. J. F. Goodhart when he says that in a large number of cases influenza lays its victim open to an attack of pulmonary tuberculosis. "Many a case," he writes, " seemed to start from an attack of influenza, and many a case of phthisis was certainly sent on its way with an alarming increase in the rapidity of its progress." Finkler has drawn attention to the fact that in phthisical patients particularly influenza lasts an extraordinarily long time, that it becomes as it were chronic in them, and from time to time induces fresh inflammatory processes in the cicatrising tuberculous areas in the lungs. Partly also through the damage inflicted by it on the elasticity of the lung, but chiefly from its hiirtful effects upon the pulmonary nerves, influenza lays the foundation for bronchial asthma, a sequel which is usually transitory, but may be pei'sistent. Another distressing sequel, to which Professor Osier has drawn attention, is diffuse bronchiec- tasis. 28