103 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM Such results from pyogenic infection. The micro-organisms may reach the myocardium by means of the blood, or by direct extension from the endo- or pericardium. Many are of the same nature as those met with in malignant endocarditis, and produce rapid degeneration and necrosis with a certain amount of inflam- matory exudation. Chronic Interstitial Myocarditis.—Under this heading it has become customary to include those conditions characterised by a formation of fibrous or indurated tissue, when the true muscle elements have undergone wasting or been replaced by sclerotic formation. But myo- cardial sclerosis is by no means always the result of a true inflammatory process. Hence the above term is hardly sufficiently inclusive to be absolutely accurate. Arterio-sclerosis of the coronary arteries must be credited with the greater number of cases of fibroid heart. The influence of gout, lead, syphilis, Bright's disease, alcoholism, over-work and old age, in directly leading to such is dis- cussed elsewhere, and calls for no further con- sideration here. The myocardial sclerosis may be (i.) local or (ii.) diffuse. When local, and under the influ- ence of arterial supply, the left ventricle usually suffers to the greatest extent. The indurated areas appear as firm, pale, fibrous patches which microscopically present the characters of dense cicatricial-like tissue. Cardiac Aneurysm.—-Local bulging of the myocardium is usually dependent on ante- cedent disease of the muscle ending in fibroid induration. Exceptionally, however, a cardiac aneurysm foms before fibrous transformation has occurred. The endocardium is also some- times found bulgino; between the muscular fas- ciculi. Cardiac aneurysms are most frequently situated in the walls of the left ventricle, on the anterior aspect and near the apex; but they also arise on the posterior wall and even in the septum, when they may bulge towards or into the right ventricle. In size they vary from that of a marble to a hen's egg, and occa- sionally may even be of larger dimensions. Aneurysms in connection with the valves and local bulgings on the coronary arteries are re- ferred to elsewhere. Hypertrophy and dilatation may occasionally exist separatelj^ but usually occur in com- bination, constituting the commonest cause of cardiac enlargement. Hypertrophy may always be considered a secondary condition, and is in most instances to be looked upon as compen- satory in nature. Dilatation is generally secondary, and mainly indicative of myocardial inadequacy. Hypertrophy may arise from (i.) intrinsic or intra-cardiac conditions, such as valvular aff"ec- tions, and perhaps sometimes " adherent peri- cardium," and (ii.) extrinsic or exti'a-cardiac conditions, such as arterio-sclerosis and chronic Bright's disease. In hypertrophy, consequent on toxic influences, as from alcoholism and ex- cessive smoking, and long-continued neurotic palpitation, as for instance in Graves' disease, probably dilatation is to be considered the first and essential lesion, hypertrophy occurring rather as a later effect. The hypertrophy met with in those employed in laborious occupa- tions, and that occurring in pregnancy, are to be looked upon as in the borderland of the physio- logical. Hypertrophy is generally to be con- strued as a reparative or compensatory effort, while dilatation works in the direction of a break in the restorative mechanism except in the case of aortic incompetence, where to a certain degree it is advantageous. Formerly three varieties of hypertrophy were described—(i.) simple, where although the myo- cardium was increased the cavity remained of normal dimensions; (ii.) eccentric, with both walls and cavity increased, the form now better described as "hypertrophy with dilatation"; and (iii.) concentric, where the cavity was thought to be diminished, but which is now recognised as due to post-mortem contraction. The whole heart may be hypertrophied, when it is aptly described as "bovine"; if the right ventricle is chiefly involved a " quadrate " form will be assumed; and when the increase in muscular development predominates in the left ventricle a "conical" heart results, provided, of course, the left ventricle has not become rounded and lost its apex. It is impossible here to describe in detail what may be termed the local distribution of cardiac hypertrophy. Brief reference can only be made to some few points. The walls of the left ventricle manifest the greatest muscular development, particularly in disease of the aortic valve. In aortic stenosis hypertrophy pre- dominates and may exist alone for a long period, but in incompetence it is associated from the first with dilatation, which, indeed, in a sense may be regarded as compensatory, though hypertrophy must speedily follow. In aneurysm of the thoracic aorta no hypertrophy may occur, provided the aortic valves remain com- petent. In " granular" kidney enormous and almost pure hypertrophy arises, but even here the right ventricle participates to some extent. Hypertrophy of the left auricle occurs in mitral stenosis. Obstructive diseases of the pulmonary circulation lead to great hypertrophy of the right ventricle, but diseases of the aortic and mitral A'alves, especially mitral stenosis, are a common cause. In congenital lesions very ex- tensive hypertrophy is often apparent. It may be desirable here to add that even in " right- sided " cases of hypertrophy more or less im- plication of the left ventricle will also be fomid, as indeed would be expected when the "soli- darity " of the heart is considered.