HYPNOTISM 303 ing the uterine contractions through the action of the voluntary muscles. Dr. Fanton asserts that suggestion acts directly upon the uterus, and that the operator can cause its contractions to appear or disappear at will. Thus, uterine inertia may be successfully com- bated without ergot, and the use of forceps frequently rendered unnecessary. The after- contraction of the uterus can be excited and maintained by suggestion, and post - partum htemorrhage prevented; while, in cases of ad- herent placenta, turning, etc., the uterus can be relaxed and the necessary operations facili- tated. Dr. Fanton claims to have excited pre- mature labour by suggestion, and considers it criminal to have recourse to other means— dilatation of the cervix, perforation of the mem- branes, etc. — without having first attempted this method. Although Dr. Fanton founds his statements on numerous cases and experiments, many of them observed and confirmed by other medical men, the results he claims are so startling that few are likely to accept them without further evidence. One must admit, however, that the involuntary contractions of the uterus are some- times arrested by emotional states. Thus, when a patient is in active labour, her pains may suddenly cease and remain in abeyance for hours, if a stranger comes to attend her instead of her own medical man. Pregnant women are more easily hypnotised than those s\ifFering from nervous diseases; and from this, and other reasons, there are fewer objections to the employment of hypnotism in obstetrics than in general surgery. Notwith- standing, unless the methods of inducing hyp- nosis are greatly improved, its use as an an- aesthetic will ever remain restricted. Hypnotic anaesthesia, however, must always be of keen interest to both physiologist and psychologist. It is a thing apart, not an ordinary narcotic, illustrating familiar methods of preventing pain by checking all conscious cerebration. It is a new departure—the first successful attempt at dissociating forms of sensation, which through- out the known history of the human organism have almost invariably existed together. Here, pain is suppressed by the inhibition, from among all the subject's possible sensations, of precisely those which would in any way be disagreeable to him, while general consciousness may be un- impaired, and sensations, other than painful ones, rendered more acute by suggestion. Stages The hypnotic condition is divided by different observers into a varying number of stages. Most of these classifications, particularly Bern- heim's, are complicated and misleading, while none are quite satisfactory, as the stages them- selves are more or less the result of training, and thus artificial. The following classification is the one I fol- low :— 1. Slight Hypnosis.—Changes in the volun- tary muscles can be induced. Memory unaltered. 2. Deep Hypnosis.—Here, in addition, changes in the special senses can be evoked, and there is sometimes partial amnesia on waking. 3. Somnambulism. — In this stage, all the phenomena of the two previous ones can be evoked, and sometimes also others (appreciation of time, etc.), which cannot be produced in the earlier stages. The chief characteristic of som- nambulism, however, is the amnesia which follows it, i.e. the waking consciousness retains no recollection of what has occurred in hypnosis. The division of the hypnotic state into differ- ent stages is of little practical importance to the physician. AVith rare exceptions—such as the production of somnambulism for operative pur- poses—none but curative suggestions are given, and, in the majority of the successful cases, recovery takes place before any deep stage is reached. With a certain proportion of such patients, the phenomena of deep hypnosis might be evoked and classified, if suggestions were directed to that end. Experimental and thera- peutic work, however, should be kept absolutely distinct. Susceptibility In 1892, Schrenck-Notzing published his First International Statistics of Suscepjtihility, which showed that fifteen observers in different countries had tried to hypnotise 8705 persons, with the following results :—6 per cent were uninfluenced j 15 per cent became somnambules, while 78 per cent were less deeply hypnotised. These figures are fairly representative, although certain observers have obtained still better re- sults. Thus, out of 1756 consecutive cases, Liebeault's failures only, amounted to 3 per cent, while Wetterstrand only failed in 3-7 per cent out of 3209 cases. Susceptibility is little affected by race, and hardly at all by sex ; but children are more easily influenced than adults. According to Forel, every mentally healthy person is naturally hypnotisable, while the majority of observers agree that the hysterical and ill-balanced are the most difficult to influence. The causes which aflect susceptibility ad- versely are too numerous to be referred to in detail; the most important are fear and dis- quieting emotions of a like nature. Thus, the psychical preparation of a patient for hypnosis is as important and complicated as the physical preparation essential to antiseptic surgery. In the first 500 cases, drawn from my general practice, there were only two failures, while 48 per cent became somnambules. This suscepti- bility, far above the average, was apparently due to the following causes :—I had already gained the patients' confidence by attending