459 INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF tissues, but partly also to general toxic con- ditions. Hence the endothelial cells of the dural perivascular canals are irritated and im- perfectly nourished. They consequently undergo proliferative and degenerative alterations, which result in compression and obliteration of the superficial capillaries. At the same time general proliferation of the dural tissues tends to occur. Obliteration of the original superficial capillaries is constantly followed by the throwing out of new capillaries on the surface of the membrane. These new vessels tend to give way under various circumstances, but especially during the last few days of life in all cases in which the patient sinks slowly. The great majority of the sub- dural false membranes that are to be observed in the insane are developed as the result of hajmorrhages brought about in this way. With few exceptions they have the histological characters of recent formations. They are essentially composed of blood-clot, which, however, is commonly in course of being vascularised. Associated with these pathological processes there are various other proliferative and degenerative changes in the tissues of the dura mater leading to the formation of surface granulations, hyaline concentric bodies, mulberry bodies, etc. The Pia Arachnoid.—The leptomeninges are composed of white fibrous tissue, or perhaps of a special form of elastic tissue, which is arranged in such a way as to form a spongy lymph sac. This structural arrangement extends throughout the whole of the membrane, which, upon this and other grounds. Dr. James Middlemass and the writer have contended, contrary to the general teaching, should be regarded as a single structure. It is important to understand that the pia arachnoid is not directly nourished by the vessels it contains. These are simply passing to and from the cerebral tissues. The membrane depends for its nutrition upon the lymph or cerebro-spinal fluid which, escaping from the capillaries of the brain, passes along the adventitial lymph-channels of the intra- cerebral vessels, enters the arachnoid spaces, and passes across the subdural space into the perivascular canals of the dura mater. The most important pathological alteration that afl'ects the pia arachnoid in cases of insanity is one which presents itself as milkiness, thickening, opacity, and other related abnormal appearances. Over 70 per cent of cases of insanity show more or less pronounced evidence of these changes on post-mortem examination. The morbid process is essentially the same as that which occm-s on the opposite side of the subdural space, and has the same cause, but differs in respect of the fact that it is not com- plicated by the vascular changes which occur in the dura. The endothelial cells lining the arachnoid spaces and the outer surface of the membrane imdergo proliferative and degenera- tive changes. At the same time a slow hyper- plasia of the connective tissues takes place. Hence the membrane increases in thickness and assumes a milky appearance. 2%e Cerebral Blood-vessels. — These present several special anatomical features which it is necessary to understand in connection with the study of the pathological changes to which they are subject. All the blood that they convey has to pass (with one or two immaterial exceptions) through the nervous substance. The pia arachnoid has no capillary circulation of its own, and hence there is no possibility of short-cutting of the cerebral blood-supply. The small pial arterioles anastomose somewhat freely with each other. The cerebral capillaries are peculiar in that they possess an external coat. This is composed of highly elastic connective tissue fibrils continuous with those of the adventitia of the arterioles and venules. A special set of capillaries, coming ofl^ from the pial arterioles, supplies the first layer of the cortex. All the intra-cerebral vessels have normally in their walls a small amount of a pale yellow substance which increases with age. One of the most important morbid changes to which the cerebral vessels are subject is the hyaline fibroid degeneration of Gull and Sutton. It consists in hyaline swelling, or of fibroid thickening, of the connective-tissue fibrils of the adventitia. The first represents the degenerative and the second the reparative phase of the morbid process. This form of disease occurs in arterioles, capillaries, and venules. It specially tends to affect the capillaries of the first layer of the cortex, which in senile insanity are often extensively obliterated by it. Another ex- ceedingly important vascular change in cases of chronic insanity is endarteritis deformans, or atheroma. It affects not only the large cerebral arteries, but also the small arterioles and capillaries within the brain. It leads to narrowing of the vascular channels, and not infrequently to their obliteration. Both this vascular alteration and hyaline fibroid degenera- tion lead to the formation of atrophic softenings. The pathology of endarteritis deformans is still in dispute, but, on the evidence of the changes that may be observed in the cerebral vessels, the disease appears to depend upon an abnormal condition of the blood, in consequence of which the tissues composing the intima are injuriously affected in their nutrition, and undergo either proliferative or degenerative changes. With the temporary cessation of the nutritive disturbance reparative processes occur, resulting always in some increase in the thickness of the intima. The degenerative phase is constantly accom- panied by weakening of the muscular coat of the arterioles, and, if associated with high blood- pressure, is apt to lead to local dilatation and the formation of miliary aneurysms. In correspondence with the special frequency with