195 HERNIA and 2'5 per cent femoi'al hernia. Among 100 women riiptnred, 60"3 per cent have inguinal and 39"7 per cent femoral hernia. Among 100 ruptured persons of both sexes the following- proportions obtain :—Male inguinal, 83'5 per cent; female inguinal, 8'5 per cent; female femoral, 5"9 per cent; male femoral, 2-1 per cent. Anatomy of Inguinal Hernia.—An inguinal hernia leaves the abdomen by the inguinal canal, entering at the internal abdominal ring and emerging at the external. The canal is 1|- in. long in the adult. The anterior wall is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and in the outer third by the fibres of the internal oblique arising from Poupart's ligament. The posterior wall is generally described as being formed in its inner two-thirds only by the conjoined tendon, but this statement needs correction. The conjoined tendon forms the inner part of the posterior wall, but in the outer part there is, in the great majority of cases, a quite distinct layer of tendinous fibres derived from the transversalis muscle. This layer (sometimes referred to as the " reflected tendon" of Cooper) extends up to, and forms, the inner boundary of the internal abdominal ring, where there is a noticeable thickening, the " ligament of Hesselbacli " descending from the outer limb of the fold of Douglas. The posterior wall is also formed by the triangular fascia of Colles, sometimes referred to as the "posterior" pillar of the external abdominal ring, and the transversalis fascia, here thickened by the addition of bundles of oblique and transverse fibres. The conjoined tendon is a very variable structure. In the great majority of cases it is thin and weak, and blends internally with the sheath of the rectus. The floor of the canal is formed by Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligaments, and the roof by the arching fibres of the internal oblique and trans- versalis. Action of the Iiu/uinal Canal. — The term "canal" is perhaps unfortunate if it conveys the idea of an open tube transmitting the cord, for nothipg of the kind exists when the conditions are normal. In a healthy individual the anterior and posterior walls are in close apposition. When the arched fibres of the internal oblique contract, they become straight and descend towards Poupart's ligament, compressing the spermatic cord against that structure. While so descended they are gripped and fixed by the pressure of the anterior and posterior walls, which, by the contraction of the external oblique and the transversalis, are made tense and are approximated. The canal therefore acts as a "sphincter," and would, with greater accuracy, be described as the Ingidnal valve. For the efficient working of this valve it is necessary that the "canal" should be empty. Any structure, such as a deposit of fat along the cord, or a pleated sac after operation, which occupies the canal, will prevent the descent of the arched fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis, and thereby make impossible the normal sphincteric or valvular action of the canal. If the lower portion of the anterior abdominal wall is examined from behind certain elevations with intervening depressions will be noticed. Along the middle line a fold, the plica umhilicalis media, extends from the bladder along the urachus to the umbilicus; on each side of this there is a ridge, the 'plica umhilicalis lateralis, raised up by the obliterated hypogastric artery, and still further outwards a slighter fold, the plica epigastrica, indicating the line of the deep epigastric artery. Between the two first folds is a recess, the fossa supra vesicalis, between the second and third the fovea ingiiinalis mesialis, and to the outer side of the plica epigastrica the fovea inguinal is lateralis. Occasionally the line of the obliterated hypogastric coincides with that of the deep epigastric, and only a single ridge is raised up. The plica epigastrica, as it passes upwards and inwards, forms, with the outer edge of the rectus to the inner side and Poupart's ligament below, a triangular interval known as the Triangle of Hesselbach. An oblique inguinal hernia descends, outside the plica epigastrica, through the fovea in- guinalis lateralis. A direct inguinal hernia may pass (a) between the plica epigastrica and the plica umhilicalis lateralis, or {b) between the latter and the central fold ; the former is known as a superior or external, and the latter as an inferior or internal direct inguinal hernia. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia are skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, infundibuliform fascia, sub- peritoneal tissue, and peritoneum. Of a superior or external direct hernia, skin, subcutaneous tissue, intercolumnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, and some fibres derived from the tendon of the transversalis muscle at or near the ligament of Hesselbach, transversalis fascia, subperitoneal tissue, and peritoneum. Of an inferior or internal direct hernia, skin, subcutaneous tissue, intercolumnar fascia, Colles' triangular fascia, conjoined or transversalis tendon, transversalis fascia, subperitoneal tissue, and peritoneum. The following varieties of inguinal hernia will be described :— Oblique Inguinal— Skin. Superficial fascia. Intercolumnar fascia. Cremasteric fascia. Infundibuliform fascia. Subperitoneal tissue. Peritoneum.