414 INFILTRATION Infiltration.—The deposition within and diffusion throughout an organ or tissue of sub- stances foreign to that organ or tissue brought to it generally in the blood stream. See Fatty Infiltration ; Inflammation ; etc. Infirmary. See Hospitals. Inflammation. Introductory . . . . .414 The Phenomena of Inflammation— Active HypercBmia and Acceleration . 416 HypercBmia and Retardatioyi . . 416 Escape of Fluid . . . . .416 Escape of Cellular Constituents— Chemiotaxis . . . . .417 Fhagocytosis . . . . .417 The Fole of Fixed Tissue Cells . .419 Nomenclature used in Inflammation . 421 See also Appendix Vermiformis, Appendicitis ; Arteries, Diseases op (Arteritis, etc.); Atrophy (Result of Inflammation); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Inflammation of the Labyrinth, Acute and Chronic); Balneology (General, Use of Baths in the Results of Inflammation) ; Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of (Cystitis): Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of (Female Bladder, Cystitis) ; Bone, Diseases of (Pyogenic Diseases); Brain, Inflammations ; Bronchi, Bronchitis ; Choroid, Diseases of (Choroi- ditis) ; Colon, Diseases of (Inflammation); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Inflammatory Affec- tions); Dermatitis Herpetiformis; Diaphragm (Inflammation) ; Duodenum (Inflammations); Dysentery ; Ear, External, Diseases op {Otitis); Ear, Acute Inflammation of Middle Ear ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Non - Suppurative In- flammation ; Erythema ; Fallopian Tubes (Inflammation); Gall - Bladder and Bile- Ducts, Diseases of (Cholecystitis, etc.); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Endocarditis, etc.); Intestines, Diseases of (Enteritis); Iris and Ciliary Bodies (Inflam- matory Affections); Joints, Diseases of (Syno- vitis, etc.); Lacrymal Apparatus, Diseases of (Diseases of Lacrymal Sac); Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations ; Leucocytosis ; Liver, Diseases of (Cirrhosis); Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Inflammatory Affections); Mediastinum (Mediastinitis); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Iiflammations); Muscles, Diseases of (Inflammatory); Nephritis ; Oesophagus, Injuries and Diseases of (Inflammation); Ovaries, Diseases of (Inflammation); Pan- creas, Diseases of {Pancreatitis); Parotid Gland (Inflammatory Conditions); Peri- cardium, Diseases of (Pericarditis); Peri- toneum (Peritonitis); Pharynx, Acute and Chronic Pharyngitis; Pleura, Diseases of (Pleurisy); Pneumonia ; Prostate Gland (Inflammation); Rectum, Diseases of (Ulcera- tion) ; Retina and Optic Nerve (Inflamma- tion) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases op (Orchitis, Epididymitis); Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases of (Inflammation, Gastritis); Teeth (Periodontitis, etc.) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical (Thyroiditis); Tongue (Inflammatory Affections); Tonsils, Diseases of (Tonsillitis, Acute, Chronic); Urethra, Diseases op (In- flammation) ; Uterus, Inflammations of the ; Vesicul.e Seminales (Inflammation). Since the introduction of the term inflammation to indicate the cardinal symptoms of redness (rubor), swelling (tumo), heat (calor), and pain (dolor), which characterise the inflammatory processes when seen upon the skin or other similarly exposed part, its meaning has under- gone so many additions and modifications, that it is difhcult to find any two pathologists agree- ing upon its significance. A definition which would be satisfactory to all is impossible, and so much at variance are their views as to its nature, that unity of opinion is not likely ever to be attained. Some would restrict it to mean only a local disturbance of nutrition accom- panied by exudation from the blood-vessels, while others would extend it to include so many other changes that it becomes practically synonymous with local disease. Owing to the differences of opinion being so wide and practi- cally irreconcilable, it is thought by many that the term inflammation should be discarded from pathological nomenclature. This view is prob- ably scientifically correct, but it is not likely to prevail. So much valuable work has been done under the time-honoured title of inflammation, and so rich is it as a storehouse of knowledge, that it will not be easy, even if it were wise, to displace it from its high position in pathological literature. In its earlier and simpler accepta- tions it includes a series of phenomena of pre- eminent importance in the study of many diseases pretty generally recognised and under- stood by pathologists. It is important to note at once that it is not a simple vital process, but a combination of different vital processes which may be conveniently studied and demonstrated by an experiment similar to that originally performed by Colmheim upon the web of the frog's foot. As modified by Coats, it is so easy of performance and its phenomena so readily observed, that it has long been with teachers the favourite method of introducing the subject to their students. The frog should be pithed and curarised. Its foot, with the web spread out, is fixed upon an ordinary microscopic glass slide, so that it may be examined under the microscope. A small portion of the surface of the web is snipped off with scissors, just deep enough to remove the epithelial layers without drawing blood, and the subsequent inflam- matory processes carefully observed. They are as follows : 1. Active Hypersemia and Accelera- tion.—The arteries in the immediate neighbour-