203 HERNIA There can be no doubt that recurrence after operation is more frequent in umbilical hernia than in inguinal or femoral; and for this reason it is always a wise precaution to insist upon the subsequent wearing of a stoutly-built abdominal belt. Ventral Hernia The term ventral hernia is held to include all such ruptures of the abdominal parietes as do not appear at the inguinal, femoral, or umbilical apertures. Any portion of the wall may be tlie site of such a protrusion. For purposes of description the following A'arieties are recognised :— 1. Divarication of the recti. 2. Ventral hernia in the linea alba. .3. Ventral hernia in the linea semilunaris. 4. Ventral hernia following traumatism. 5. Lumbar hernia. (1) Divarication or Diastasis of the Recti.— In children it is not infrequent to notice a widening and a thinning of the linea alba above the umbilicus. On crying or straining a semi- cylindrical protrusion occurs, and extends from the ensiform cartilage to the innbilicus. Clini- cally the condition is unimportant, and treatment is not necessary. In adults, and especially in multipara, the separation of the recti occurs below the innbilicus. The fingers can be readily passed into the gap. Rossetus i-elates a case occurring in a pregnant woman, in which the foetus could be plainly felt in the hernial mass. (2) Ventral hernia in the Linea Alba may occiu- above or below the umbilicus. The former is generally known as epigastric hernia, and occTU's more frequently in men than in women. The linea alba above the umbilicus is about 3 mm. in width and consists of transverse fibres. It is no uncommon experience to find that these fibres are decidedly coarse in texture and small irregular apertiires or spaces are left between them. Through these a protrusion of subperitoneal fat occurs, forming a rounded nodule readily felt on palpation. Such a mass may increase considerably in size and eventually drag outwards a peritoneal pouch, which may foi'm a hernial sac, containing omentum, in- testine, or both. Very rarely the stomach has been recognised as a hernial content. These ruptures are chiefly remarkable for the per,sistent symptoms they induce. Dyspepsia, sickness, colic, and general intestinal discomfort are freqiiently complained of, and in not a few cases their cause may be overlooked or ignored. The treatment by operation should, if possible, be the routine procedure. Below the innbilicus a ventral hernia, apart from those varieties to be mentioned, is very exceptional. (3) Ventral hernia in the Linea Semilunaris. —A direct inguinal hernia is in reality a hernia at the linea spigelii. Apart from this form examples are rare. The majority of re- corded cases have occurred below the umbilicus, and Molliere (whose name is attached to this rupture by French writers) suggested that the fold of Douglas determines the point of exit of the protrusion. A very curious feature of hernite in this situation has been described by Monro, Teale, and others. The hernial sac may enter the abdominal wall without passing through it, and consequently there is no manifest swelling on the body surface. The term " Masked Hernia " has been applied to this condition. (4) Ventral hernia following traumatism may be found at any portion of the abdominal wall. Guthrie describes many cases occurring during the Peninsular War as the result of blows inflicted on the abdominal parietes. Any of the numerous operations practised upon the abdominal contents may leave a permanent weakness in the scar, which gradually yields under pressure from within. Cicatricial tissue is not suited to withstand pressure. Such hernia; can be almost entirely obviated by careful suturing, layer by layer, of the divided structures. Wherever possible, muscle - fibres j should be separated in the direction of their length rather than cut. Mr. Howse first intro- duced this most important principle into surgical methods in performing gastrostomy, and Mac- Burney and others have carried out the same idea in operating upon the appendix. In every abdominal operation much can be done in this way to preserve intact the muscular structure. The Ijest treatment in the majority of cases consists in the use of appropriate specially- designed belts. An operation for the cure of such hernia is not attended with a large measure of success, and should only be employed in very favourable cases. I ' LuMBAK Hernia This form of hernia is rare, less than fifty examples being recorded. In more than half of these no mention is made of the precise point of exit. In the lumbar region are two triangles, the triangle of Petit and the triangle of (iriinfeldt, or the "upper" and "lower" lumbar triangles. The former is bounded by the anterior edge of the latissimus dorsi, the posterior edge of the external oblique, and, at the base, by the iliac crest. It is present in about 25 per cent of children and 75 per cent of adults. The latter is bound by the twelfth rib and the serratus posticus inferior above, the internal oblique below and in front, and the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum below and behind. The floor of the triangle of Petit is formed by a stout fascia covering the internal oblique, and beneath this by the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis. The upper triangle is roofed in by