188 HERNIA quantities. The bowel may, in this manner, be forcibly and powerfully expressed into a hernial sac, even when the patient is bedridden. The Conditions of a Hernia A hernia may be I'educible, irreducible, in- carcerated, inflamed, or strangulated. Reducible Hernia.—Sytnptoms.—A patient, the subject of a reducible hernia of slow forma- tion, will complain (often before any evidence of the hernia is present) of a sense of weight, un- easiness, aching or discomfort in the affected region. This is especially noticeable after exertion, and is relieved by rest. There is, however, a marked difference in individuals in this regard. It is no uncommon thing to see a workman going about his daily task unconcerned by the presence of a gradually enlarging rupture. On the other hand, a bubonocele, trivial and quite inconspicuous, will give rise to complaints of serious disablement. After a time there may be evidence of intestinal disorder, colicky pains, generally referred to the umbilicus or there- abouts, and dyspeptic trouble. Constipation, especially if the colon is involved in the hernia, may be a prominent, and is occasionally the chief, symptom. Loss of appetite, nausea, and general intestinal discomfort may from time to time be observed, and are the more readily produced by errors of diet, which, under normal conditions, would not be visited with punishment. Signs.—A reducible hernia, wherever occur- ring, gives rise to a soft rounded swelling, gener- ally smooth on the surface and regular in outline. On the patient assuming the erect posture, or on straining or coughing, the hernia descends, or, if already down, undergoes such an increase in size as gives rise to an expansile impulse. This "impulse on coughing" is present in all hernias, except the strangulated. It is most distinct in enterocele, less so in epiplocele, especially if irreducible, and least so in obstructed hernia. When intestine is present, the tumour is quite soft and elastic and tympanitic on percvission if of moderate or large size. On applying an even pressure to the tumour it gradually lessens and eventually disappears within the abdomen, luider- going "reduction." If gas and fluid are together present a bubbling sound will be elicited by the pressure and movement; on the reduction of the last inch or two of the bowel there is a feeling as though the gut were being drawn away from one's fingers; these two signs constitute the characteristic " slip and the gurgle" of an enterocele. When omentum is within the sac, it lies, as a general rule, in front of the bowel. The hernia is then not so smooth, feeling perhaps knotted, lumpy, and irregular. Reduction is slower, and there is neither slip nor gurgle. When the omentum descends again it does so slowly, oozing out of the abdomen evenly and regularly. Taxis.—For the reduction of a hernia a special manipulation, taxis, is employed. The patient is lying upon the back. If the hernia is inguinal or femoral the pelvis may be raised by one or two pillows and the thighs slightly flexed. The neck of the sac in an inguinal hernia, for example, is surrounded by the thumb and fingers of the left hand, and pressure is applied by them downwards towards the fundus to free the neck and to ensure that force applied by the right hand at the fundus does not lose itself in expand- ing the neck and the upper part of the sac. Irreducible Hernia.—An irreducible hernia is one in which there is an impediment to the return of the bowel within the abdomen. Irre- ducibility entails a likelihood of other and more serious complications, inflammation, incarcera- tion, and strangulation. The causes of irreducibility are :— (1) Adhesions within the Sac.—These in the majority of cases implicate the omentum, and one finds therefore that 90 per cent of irreducible herniee are epiploceles. Adhesions may involve any of the contents. (2) Clianges in the Hernial Contents.—The omentum or mesentery may increase in bulk from a deposit of fat. Cysts in the omentum or mesentery; tumours of the bowel, simple or malignant; tubercular deposits in the sac or its contents, have all been observed as causes of irreducibility. (3) Large size of the Hernia.—During the course of years a hernia may inidergo steady increase, until there is more in bulk outside than inside the abdomen. The abdominal parietes naturally accommodate themselves to the altered conditions, and at the last cannot yield to a degree permitting replacement. The hernial contents suffer from "perte de droit de domicile," as Petit very aptly expressed it. In 10,000 cases Berger found this the cause of irreducibility in 122. In men, inguinal heynise are affected ; in women, umbilical. The syvij)tovis and signs are those of a reducible hernia with the exception of the fixity of the whole or some portion of the hernial protrusion. Irreducibility by keeping open the inguinal canal invites and encourages the descent of further portions of the bowel or omentum. Impulse on coughing is present, though not so clearly as in a reducible hernia. Intestinal worry is often troublesome, and the transverse colon especially may suffer. Symptoms are decidedly more aggressive than in a hernia capable of easy reduction. Irreducibility is not necessarily a permanent attribute. Treatment.—A hernia whose irreducibility is recent may by appi'opriate treatment be not in- frequently returned within the abdomen. Confinement to bed, restricted diet, careful regulation of the bowels, and the application of steady even pi-essure by an elastic bandage with occasional efforts at taxis, have met with fair success. If the patient will not submit to