HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 114 ptomatology of septic endocarditis.^ This re- markable disease presents itself to clinical observation with symptoms belonging to an entirely different category from that to which the symptoms later described belong. The element of veno2is stasis we found to predominate in the production of most of the latter, and for those that remained the embolic 2^'>'ocess was largely responsible. But septic endocarditis commonly presents itself under a clinical aspect that bears little or no resemblance to that of ordinary heart cases. Constitutional disturb- ance of the usual febrile type is early manifested, and generally brings the patient to rest in his bed before any marked degree of even the first of the cardinal symptoms has developed. It is for such febrile suffering that the patient usually first of all seeks advice, and the evidence of cardiac disease is discovered only in the course of thorough systematic physical examina- tion. The pronounced ansemia that is often early developed in the disease may indeed lead to even such physical evidence as there is being ignored—for instance, to the murmur of mitral or tricuspid incompetence being altogether attributed to the muscle failure of anaemia. This could only happen to the grossly careless observer, who remained ignorant of the daily rise of temperature, not to mention other symptoms. The spleen, as already mentioned, is enlarged in the great majority of cases of septic endocarditis, while it is only exceptionally so in ordinary heart cases. "Typhoid " symptoms—dry tongue, delirium, subsiiltus, etc.^—may be developed, but it is often surprising how long they remain absent in the presence of prolonged intermittent, re- mittent, or irregular pyrexia, the patient retaining a fairly clean, moist tongue, and some appetite, while his mind is entirely unclouded for months,—the writer has known a case last over a year,—in these respects the case re- sembling a tuberculous one. Albuminuria and hasmaturia, and the presence of casts in the urine, are of frequent occurrence. Petechiaj, with the development in some degree of a hajmorrhagic diathesis, are not rare. Haemor- rhages into the retina are apt to occur, and even optic neuritis has been observed on ophthalmo- scopic examination. The occurrence of embolism in various organs is common, and the correspond- ing symptoms, so produced, help to make up the clinical picture of the disease, which latter, in spite of the views of pathologists as to its being capable of production by different micro- organisms, forms a distinct and, on the whole, well-defined clinical entity visually easy of recognition when its broad features are known. Aneurysms may develop at the seat of embolism and even in the case of large arteries — for instance, the femoral artery, as in one of the first cases seen by the writer. The cerebral ^ For Etiology ami Pathology, see p. 91. hsemorrhage with apoplexy, that occasionally proves fatal to quite young subjects of the disease, is probably likewise associated with the embolic process. In a large proportion of cases septic endo- carditis complicates cases of ordinary chronic valve lesion—generally rheinnatic — when the symptoms referred to become added on to those of such chronic valve lesion. It has become customary to describe certain clinical types of the disease, although the advantage of such attempted classification is open to question. (1) The septic type is characterised by the occun-ence of rigors and perspirations, the " typhoid" state, occasionally more or less icterus, multiple arthritis, with or without pus formation, and hsemorrhagic and erythematous eruptions. (2) The " typhoid" type resembles in its symptoms enteric fever with tympanites and diarrhoea, delirium, somnolence, or coma. In relation to this type the occurrence of infarcts in the intestines and of occasional ulceration of the bowels is noteworthy. It must be re- membered that murmurs (systolic) arise not very rarely in cases of enteric fever inde- pendently of any endocarditis, and are probably associated with muscle failure of the heart. (3) The " cardiac " type is that which usually has been preceded by rheumatic endocarditis and the lesions resulting therefrom. Indica- tions of disturbed general circulation are more likely to be present than in other forms. In certain cases the two forms of endocarditis are difficult to differentiate. The presence of fever, especially in the evening, without the occurrence of arthritis, and otherwise unexplained, should suggest the possibility of the supervention of the septic disease. Enlargement of the spleen will increase apprehension in this direction, but the spleen is not enlarged in all cases of septic endocarditis, and may be temporarily enlarged from infarct in non-septic cases. (4) The cerebral type is often associated with meningitis—cerebral or cerebro-spinal—but, as in the specific fevers, severe cerebral symptoms are apt to arise independently of gross lesion in the brain. A " comatose " form of septicaemia, apart from any endocarditic implication for instance, is well known {vide Fagge, vol. i. p. 587). Embolic hemiplegia and apoplexy from cerebral haemorrhage, which is probably associ- ated with the embolic process, form another " cerebral type." With regard to diagnosis the septic endo- carditis is specially apt to be confused with enteric fever, the two diseases having many symptoms in common. Widal's typhoid re- action now proves of the greatest value in distinguishing between them. The presence of hajmorrhages in the retina would afford evidence in favour of septic endocarditis.