360 IxMMUNITY terchloride. Diphtheria cultures several months old are filtered through paper, and after the addition of 5 per cent of carbolic acid they remain in contact for two to three weeks with varying quantities of iodine terchloride (0'05-0'4 per cent). Guinea-pigs, sheep, and horses are immimised by the subcutaneous administration of such cultures in gradually increasing doses (Behring and Wernicke). Each dose of diphtheria poison—treated with iodine terchloride—must induce a local and general reaction. If the reaction be insufficient the immunising effect is very slight; if the reaction be too marked, leading to emaciation, immimisa- tion is usually frustrated. Hence, in the pro- cess of immunisation there is much care and experience required, and it is important to weigh the animal from time to time, as a permanent loss of weight must be expressly avoided. Horses are the only animals employed for obtaining diphtheria antitoxic serum, both because they stand the treatment with toxins well, and be- cause they are well suited for the removal of blood. Blood is very easily obtained fi-om the jugular vein, and can always be obtained absolutely pure. The venesection wound usually heals so well that blood can be withdrawn fifty to a hundred times from the jugular vein of one horse. From the blood a clear serum is easily obtained, which when injected under the skin is quickly absorbed, and even in large doses is innocuous to man and animals. The diphtheria antitoxin is often separated from the serum by precipitation and employed as a dry preparation, which requires to be dissolved before being used. If the serum is to be maintained in a fluid form, however, 0-5 per cent of carbolic acid or a small piece of camphor (Roux) is usually added. 2. Immunisation Value.—For the correct em- ployment of immune sera for prophylactic and therapeutic purposes it is, firstly, important to know that there is a definite quantitative re- lationship between the amount of antitoxin contained in serum and the amount of poison which the former is able to neutralise. The serum, therefore, can only bring about immuni- sation or cure according to the amount of anti- toxic substance it contains. But in dealing with a pre-existmg disease the amoiuit of poison present in the body can never be accurately ascertained. A supply of antitoxic substance siifficient for the most unfavourable case must therefore be sought for. This is rendered possible by employing a serum of high immunis- ing value, which contains the antitoxin in high concentration. To obtain such a serum the animal furnishing it must have been as highly immunised as possible. Behring has proved that those species of animals which are originally very susceptible to a given poison furnish a much more potent serum than, with the same degree of immunity, do those animals which have always possessed a considerable innate resistance to the poison. The reason for this is very obvious. It is not the natural innate resistance to poison, but only the resistance which is artificially induced by immunisation, which can be transferred by means of the serum. In order, therefore, to obtain a serum with a high immunising value those animal species must be employed which are naturally very susceptible. Such is the case in the horse as regards diphtheria and tetanus. The activity of an immune serum, therefore, does not altogether depend on the degree of immunity of the animal from which it was derived, but on its immunising value. For the estimation of the latter {i.e. for the standard- ising of serum), the method commonly used in Germany till quite recently was the one elabor- ated by Ehrlich, Kossel, and Wassermann. Ten times the minimum lethal dose of a toxin is mixed in varying proportions in a reagent glass with the serum which is to be examined, the mixture is made up to 4 cc. with physiological saline solution, and then injected into guinea- pigs of 250, or at most 300 grammes weight. This method yields more accurate results than the former method of injecting toxin and serum into different parts of the body. It is important to take guinea-pigs of the same weight, as other- wise the results differ. The mixture in which, under such circumstances, the toxin is exactly neutralised—there is no change whateA'er in- duced in the animal—is used in estimating the immunising value. Behring and Ehrlich first prepared a normal toxin. This is the term applied to a toxin solution O'OI cc. of which suffices to kill a guinea-pig of 250 grammes weight within five days. Hence normal diph- theria toxin (DTN^) is a solution 1 cc. of which contains the minimum lethal dose for 100 guinea-pigs, each of 250 grammes weight, i.e. for 25,000 grammes of living guinea-pig. A normal serum, or normal diphtheria antitoxin (DAN^), is a serum O'l cc. of which completely neutralises the lethal action of 1 cc. of normal diphtheria toxin; 1 cc. of this normal serum contains one immunisation unit. A serum O'OI cc. of which suffices to neutralise the same amount of toxin is ten times normal (DAN^"), and if O'OOl is sufficient the serum is one hundred times normal (DAN'""); 1 cc. of this latter serum, therefore, contains one hundred units. Living cultures of diphtheria bacilli nsed sometimes to be employed instead of toxin solu- tion for the estimation of the immunising value of a serum, but such a method is inadvisable as the results obtained are much less accurate. In France the ordinary mode of estimation is as follows (Roux and Martin):—The amount of serum which just suffices to protect a giiinea- pig from ten times the lethal dose of toxin is ascertained. The proportion between this amount of serum and the body-weight furnishes the value of the serum. For examjjle, " a