447 INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF They have not arrived at this coaclusion with- out painstaking inquiry, which showed that there were many points to be considered besides the simple fact of so many more insane persons to be reported upon. Of course the vast proportion of these cases is classed as paupers, but it must be remembered that this is a most misleading statement. Mr. T. W. L. Spence has shown that only one-fifth of those so classed in Scotland really belong to the pauper class. It is in the nature of insanity to degrade not only in mentalisation, but also in social condition. Still it is true that where there are most paupers there are most insane, and it has been shown that if the larger number of cases come from the manufacturing towns, that number is balanced by the accumulation in the agricultural districts, where there is more stagnation, where the insanity is less curable, whence have been drained the more active spirits. The destruction of the poor is their poverty; the recklessness, the thriftlessness, the drunkenness of the lower classes involves instability of nerve tissue. The evil is apparent, and the remedy must come by an adequate appreciation of the laws of health and a different mode of life for the people. Yet insanity is not entirel}' an affair of poverty and low life. The upper and middle classes have their burden, but in the general improvement in moral tone and the fuller appreciation of the benefits of mental and physical hygiene the causes are somewhat different. The direct cause of first importance in this respect is the over-strain to which men are exposed in the whirlpool of modern life. We may accept Dr. Farr's calculation, that the proportion between the upper and the middle classes on the one hand and the lower classes on the other is as 15 to 85. Certain it is that those occupations which are inseparable from mental stress have acquired a common notoriety in the production of disorders of the nervous system, and when to these is added a life of excess and dissipation, the result is a vast in- crease in cases of general paralysis, which is a disease of great cities and of great excess. Turning to the next main cause, which is almost inseparable from other considerations, we may make but brief mention of malnutrition, starvation, and privations generally. It is a truism that the brain requires healthy blood in abundance. Whatever interferes with its due nutrition must issue in disorders of the nervous tissue more or less severe. Toxic action of various kinds claims a more detailed notice. We may venture to divide these toxic agencies as follows :— 1. Exotoxic—alcoholic, plumbic, anaesthetic, cocaine, morphia, pellagra, ergot. 2. Autotoxic — rheumatic, choreic, gouty, diabetic, myxoedematous and cretinoid, ursemic, etc. 3. Microbic (?) — syphilitic, phthisical, in- fluenzal, malarial, septicccmic. It is manifest that these various degenerative causes would require a much more extended notice than can be given here, and we must refer to other articles in order to clear up the many points of interest. Broadly, in these various agencies we have something which is capable of inducing the degenerative conditions of the nervous system, to which we have already directed attention. Take exotoxic forms, such as alcohol and lead, the results of chronic alcoholic intoxication in the destruction of the chlorophil elements of the nerve-cells is matter of common knowledge. Lead has been demonstrated in the brain tissues consequent upon plimibic poisoning. The poison is virulent enough to destroy, and the enfeebled parents produce an enfeebled off- spring. Again, the autotoxic results of rheumatism, gout, etc., setting free malignant substances in the system by excess, or by derangement of metabolism, are familiar to all. Or, Avhen necessary substances are deficient, as in myx- oidema, the bodily welfare is threatened by deprivation. Insanity is thus caused by a defect as well as by an excess, and some of the most remarkable cures of cases of myxa^dema have been recorded in asylums, where to the ordinary physical degeneration and infiltration a marked hebetude of mind, with delusions more or less pronounced, have been observed. The administration of thyroid substance rescued these sufferers by replacing in their systemic circula- tion that which had been wanting. We have ventured to class syphilis, phthisis, influenza, and septicaemia as microbic agencies in the production of degeneration. In Russia syphilis is generally held to be a practically constant factor in the production of general paralysis, and there is in this country a growing tendency towards a similar conclusion. In every relation of physical condition syphilis is a powerful agent in degeneration of tissues, and we cannot but assign to it a very pi'ominent position in this list. The other agents named are appropriately dealt with under their respec- tive headings. We thus arrive at the conclusion that there are very various and powerful physical influences at work in the production of degeneration, con- sequent on which we have manifestations of the various neuroses, the insane diathesis, the various forms of mental derangement, and the stunted development of idiocy in its various degi'ees. Direct Causes.—Turning now to the more direct causes of insanity, which have been already referred to, we find that they are divisible into two main classes—those commonly spoken of as moral (mental) and physical. The mental causes are the various kinds of mental stress to which men and women are ordinarily subjected. In practice it has been