273 HYDEOCEPHALUS primary disease. Thus iu the posterior basal meningitis of infants and children there will be the symptoms of meningitis, retraction of the head, etc., the fontanelle—if still open—will be tense and bulging, the skin of the forehead and scalp tense, and the circumference of the head increases in size. In these cases, if they sur- vive, the enlargement of the head is seldom great; the hydrocephalus may perhaps be due to the obliteration of the foramina of Majendie and Liischka, or possibly to an intra-ventricular meningitis. When hydrocephalus occurs as the result of some obstruction to the veins of Galen, it is mostly at an age when the fontanelles have been closed and the sutures more or less firmly fixed than they are during infancy. In such cases the head will necessarily enlarge more slowly, and never reach extreme pro- portions, and in some cases there will be no enlargement at all. Perhaps the commonest cause of secondary hydrocephalus in children is a tubercular tumour of the cerebellum. As the tumour-growth proceeds the tentorium is stretched, the straight sinus and vena Galeni are obstructed, and fluid gradually accumulates in the lateral ventricles. In the more severe oases in children below the age of puberty the head may slowly enlarge, and the parietal and frontal bones separate, but this takes place probably in the later stages when the growth is of large size and the child bedridden. In the early stages, and in the slighter cases, when there is no enlargement of the head, the diagnosis of hydrocephalus is well-nigh impossible ; in any case to differentiate between symptoms pro- duced by the hydrocephalus and those produced by a tumour of the cerebellum is very difficult. A collection of fluid in the ventricles will be likely, by compressing the internal capsule and neighbouring parts, to produce paresis of the legs with exaggerated knee reflex. Some of the symptoms attributed to cerebellar tumour, such as uncertain and staggering gait, may be really due to the hydrocephalus which accompanies the tumour, and not immediately to the tumour itself. Hydrocephalus may be secondary to a sarcomatous tumour of the choroid plexus or blockage of the aqueduct of Sylvius by a tumour or clot of blood. In certain cases in older children, iu which the enlargement of the head is slight or not marked, chronic hydrocephalus has been found post-mortem, when death has occurred from some other cause. In such cases the course has been very chronic and suggestive of a slowly growing cerebral tumour, as there may be headache or more or less weakness of the limbs. On the other hand, vomiting and optic neuritis would be in favour of a tumour with or without hydrocephalus. Optic atrophy does, however, occur in some cases of chronic hydrocephalus apart from tumour. In these cases of chronic hydrocephalus the causation may be doubtful; VOL. IV possibly they may have suffered from congenital hydrocephalus and partially recovered, or they may be secondary to some slight basal meningitis. In rare cases an escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the nose, the fluid constantly draining away—much to the discomfort of the patient— has been practically the only symptom of chronic hydrocephalus. Morbid Anatomy. — Normal cerebro - spinal fluid is clear and colourless as water, faintly alkaline, and of sp. gr. about 1005. It gives a slight opalescence with heat and acetic acid, and often a slight reduction of copper oxide when heated with Fehling's solution. The proteid present is globulin, not albumin, and the copper- reducing substance is pyrocatechin, not sugar (Halliburton). The fluid drawn off from many cases of hydrocephalus is identical with normal cerebro-spinal fluid; in other cases, as when it is the result of meningitis (posterior basal), the fluid is turpid and albuminous. The amount of albumin may be 0'3 per cent (Esbach) or more, and the specific gravity 1008. The amount of fluid present may vary from a few ounces to many pints. The changes in the brain con- sequent on a gradual distension of the ventricles will obviously be a compression and thinning of the brain substance which surrounds the ventricles. In extreme cases this is so great that the roof of the ventricles appears in places like a cyst with thin transparent walls. The fluid may burst through the corpus callosum or cortex. The floor of the ventricles is compressed and consequently flattened, and the internal capsule suffers compression. The aqueduct of Sylvius may be dilated and large enough to admit the little finger, while the floor of the 4th ventricle is also flattened by the pressure of the fluid. The choroid plexuses are usually normal in appearance, but a chronic inflammatory condition has been observed. The frontal, parietal, and occipital bones may be separated widely at the roof of the skull. Diagnosis. — There can be no difficulty in making a diagnosis when the disease commences before the head has closed up. The gradual enlargement of the skull, the bulging fontan- elles, and open sutures make recognition of the hydrocephalus easy. The most likely cases to present difficulty are those of rickety children, who, during their second or third year, have big heads with small bodies and limbs. The rickety skull is mostly flat on the top and square in outline, on account of the exaggerated frontal and parietal eminences; the superior fontanelle may be open, but not bulging, and the edges of the bones feel thickened. The sutures are closed; there are often shallow grooves corresponding to the transverse and longitudinal fissures. The brain in these cases is frequently larger than normal, but there is no hydrocephalus. Diagnosis is necessarily difficult 18