321 HYSTERIA Such are the chief points of the diagnosis between these two maladies. With regard to the diagnosis of hysteria, we must bear in mind that the disease may closely simulate a great number of organic diseases. In doubtful cases, even where stigmata may be present, it is necessary to make a distinction between minor symptoms and those which ought to occupy the first rank, namely, the narrowing of the field of vision and antesthesia. Treatment A. Prophylactic.—Hysteria is an essentially hereditary malady, and arises from both direct and indirect heredity. Psychic and physical remedies are necessary to counteract the effects of hysteria in an individual so predisposed. Education and physical exercises may do much to correct a tendency to the neurosis. A boy, for example, should be brought up in the family circle, educated by a firm and equable master; all exciting literature forbidden, and physical exercises, such as gymnastics, riding, swimming, and hydrotherapise, encouraged, care being taken that the boy does not overdo these things. When he is older the strain of examinations, etc., must be avoided. The girl even more than the boy requires a wise home education ; if the mother is highly nervous she should confide her child to the care of a good governess or judicious rela- tives, for the sight of the mother's nervous out- breaks is bad for the child and favours the neurotic development. At puberty all over- excitement must be avoided. The period of menstruation, with its psychic and physical changes, is fraught with possibilities for young- girls. A severe moral shock may make com- plete psychic and physical repose necessary. All excitement and romances should be for- bidden, also excessive dancing, etc. Among other causes of nervous disorders alcoholic stimulants must be guarded against; subjects should be warned to avoid stimulants, and should not enter any calling that exposes them to the use of intoxicants. With the prophylactic treatment there arises the question, how far marriage and pregnancy are influential in hysteria. It is an old saying that marriage is the cure for this malady, but this is far from being proved. If the marriage is a happy one, and if the young wife is free from care and sorrow, it will certainly have to all appearance a beneficial result. If marriage, on the other hand, is a source of trouble, its influence will be unfortunate. The family ought, then, to be made aware that marriage is not a cure. If hysterical symptoms have not developed before twenty years of age, hysteria is less likely to be serious. The influence of pregnancy is debatable; the moral influences which surround the subject have much more weight than the mere condition itself. Suckling the infant should be forbidden, as it exhausts the mother, VOL. IV and the milk of a healthy wet-nurse is of far more value to the child than that of an excitable mother. B. General Treatment.—Hysteria being essen- tially a psychic malady ought therefore to have a psychic treatment. The first condition of this treatment is for the physician to have entire authority over his patient, that he may know how to speak to him and secure his confidence. He must have sympathy with his patient's sufferings, and be able to assure him of the efficacy of the means used to cure him. It is for this reason that it is often advisable to separate the patient from all outside influences, and place him under strict medical supervision and nursing. In fact it is better that the patient be completely away from relatives and friends. The duration of his absence should vary according to circumstances, and it should be continued for some time after the abatement of the disorder. As the cure progresses the isolation need be less complete, and the patient may gradually resume his ordinary liberty, taking walks, and by degrees returning to his former mode of life. Unfortunately this isola- tion cannot always be arranged, as even the friends object to it, but grave cases of hysteria can be cured in no other way. Hypnotism is a valuable aid in the treatment of hysteria, but it must not be considered a panacea: numbers of hysterical patients are not hypno- tisable. On the other hand, hypnotism itself is not without danger, for repeated seances act as a form of attack. It is not impossible that a subject who has been under the influence of hypnotism may fall back into the same state under the influence of suggestion, such as the looking fixedly at some brilliant object. Hypno- tism in itself is not a treatment for hysteria, but is an adjunct of the greatest value, which ought to be reserved for special emergencies (convulsions, delirium, paralysis, spasms, etc.). The means followed to produce the hypnotic sleep are, steadily gazing at a bright object, listening to a monotonous noise (the tick-tick of a watch), gentle rubbing of the eyelids, pressure of a hypnogenic zone, and simple suggestion. It is during this sleep that the suggestion may be exercised at the moment when the patient is plunged into the somnam- bulistic trance. {See also " Hypnotism.") The suggestion to the listening patient deserves to occupy a conspicuous place beside the hyp- notic suggestion. The patient benefits greatly by the suggestions of his medical attendant, whether addressed directly to himself or over- heard when uttered to some one near him. Very often on hearing the doctor emphatically state the opinion that he is much better and nearly cured, the patient believes it, and half the battle is won. This suggestion is rendered more efficacious by the administration of harmless medicines which the patient believes to be bene- 21