HEMOGLOBINURIA 31 The post-mortem appearances recalled those met with in cases of potassium chlorate poison- ing, and included deep pigmentation of the renal cortex, hypertemia of the pancreas, enlarge- ment of the spleen and mesenteric glands, dilata- tion of the stomach, and ecchymoses in the stomach and intestines, with swelling of Peyer's patches. Numerous micrococci were found in the blood, kidneys, and intestine. Winkel considered that umbilical infection might be excluded—no medicinal or dietary cause could be traced, and it is noteworthy that all but five of the affected infants were breast- fed, and the mothers showed no impairment of health. Sporadic cases, apparently of the same nature, have since been recorded by Sandner and Baginsky. Paroxysmal Ilwmoglobinuria. — Of the con- ditions which give rise to the symptom under discussion, the most remarkable, and in many respects the most interesting, is the affection known as paroxysmal hsemoglobinuria, which appears to be a disease sui generis. The earliest clear description of this malady, as one characterised by the intermittent passage of urine deeply coloured by blood pigment and containing hajraoglobin debris, but free from red blood corpuscles, is contained in a paper by George Harley in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions for 1865, which is immediately followed by a record of some further cases by W. H. Dickinson. It is true that the disease does not appear to have wholly escaped the notice of earlier observers, and reference may be made to the description of a case of intermittent albu- minuria and chromaturia by Dressier, published in 1854. In a paper by Alexander Marcet, published in 1823, reference is made to a case, apparently of this nature, in which the vaso- motor phenomena were so well marked that it may be regarded as an example of Raynaud's disease. Paroxysmal htemoglobinuria is a decidedly rare disease. It commences usually in adult life, before middle age, but it is also met M-ith in children. A very great majority of all the suff'^rers are males, the recorded cases in females being very few in number. Malaria and syphilis have been regarded as important predisposing causes, but the more recent investigations suggest that malarial an- tecedents play a less important part than the earlier observers supposed ; whereas it has been shown that a history of syphilis is to be ob- tained in a large proportion of cases, and children who suffer from the disease have usually suffered from congenital syphilis also. The initial attack is not infrequently ascribed to some unusually severe exposure, and beyond question cold is by far the most potent exciting cause of the individual paroxysms. In some cases the effect of cold appears to be aggravated by exertion, and there is a remarkable group of cases in which muscular exertion of a particular kind appears to be the sole provoking cause of attacks. Since, however, it is doubtful whether these cases are rightly included in the present category, it will be best to discuss them separ- ately. The influence of cold is best shown by the fact that in susceptible subjects an attack may be started by a cold bath, and even by the immersion of portions of the body, such as the hands or feet, in ice-cold water, for a longer or shorter period. However, individual patients differ remarkably in their susceptibility to such influences, and a degree and duration of exposure which will in one case inevitably provoke an attack, will in another have no such result. In addition to hajmoglobinuria a variety of more general symptoms accompany the attack, such as pains in various parts of the trunk and limbs, rigors, febrile disturbance, and, in the later stages, sweating. Headache is often present and may be severe, and gaping or yawn- ing is a common early symptom. Nausea, anorexia, vomiting, and a peculiar sensation of difficulty of swallowing, are also described or observed ; and in some cases an urticarial rash appears during the attack. Among the most conspicuous phenomena are vaso-motor disturbances, such as coldness of the extremities, and " deadness " of the fingers and toes, which are the seat of tingling and numb- ness, and appear white and bloodless, or even assume a purple tint. These changes are attended by a rise of blood pressure due to con- traction of the peripheral vessels. In a word, a condition is developed which is indistinguishable from the slighter forms of Raynaud's disease, and even the more severe Raynaud phenomena are sometimes met with in association with hsemoglobinuria. It would, perhaps, be more correct to say that hsemoglobinuria is sometimes seen in Raynaud's disease, for whereas vaso- motor disturbances of minor degree are usually observed in paroxysmal hfEmoglobinuria, it is only in a few cases of typical Raynaud's disease that htemoglobinuria occurs. However, the association is sufliciently strik- ing to warrant the supposition that there is some intimate relationship between the two conditions, rather than that, as Bristowe and Copeman suggested, their association is merely due to the fact that exposure to cold is the common exciting cause of both maladies. Both diseases are decidedly rare, and the probability of their accidental association in the same indi- vidual is consequently small. Recent observations suggest that the vaso- motor disturbances play an important part in the causation of paroxysmal ha^moglobinuria, a second factor being an abnormal condition of the blood, and it seems possible that in cases of