INFANT FEEDING 391 Breast-Fbeding Importance of Breast-Feeding.—No artificial infant feeding can ever be so satisfactory as nature's method of suckling at the mother's breast. One can hardly condemn too strongly the selfishness of those women who refuse to feed their infants in the natural way because suckling interferes with their social pleasures or engage- ments. From some statistics collected by the writer at the Hospital for Sick Children, it would seem that 90 per cent of the fatal cases of diarrhcea in infancy occur in those who are being partially or entirely hand-fed, only 10 per cent are in infants fed entirely at the breast. Artificial feeding is responsible for the vast majority of the cases of gastro-intestinal dis- order in infancy, while infantile scurvy and rickets are pre-eminently diseases produced by artificial diet, and that too in many cases where considerable care has been exercised in the feeding of the infant. Even where a scanty secretion of milk or other circumstances render it impossible for the mother to feed the child entirely at the breast, it is most important that she shovild continue partial breast-feeding, for it has been shown that even partial suckling con- siderably diminishes the risk of fatal diarrhcea, and also the liability to other disorders which are due to artificial feeding. Conditions which contra - indicate Breast- Feeding. — In many cases arrest of the milk secretion necessitates feeding by hand, but there are other conditions which may make it advis- able to wean the infant. General debility in the mother is sometimes a sufficient reason for weaning the child ; too often, however, this is merely an excuse for getting out of a disagreeable duty, and because a mother says she "never could suckle her children," it by no means follows that she can- not suckle her present infant; the medical man must judge for himself whether the general ill- health is sufficient to justify partial or complete weaning of the infant. It occasionally happens that the mother's milk persistently disagrees with the infant. The reasons for this will be considered below; here it need only be pointed out, that in many cases by proper regulation of the mother's habits and diet it is possible to correct the fault in the milk, and that until such an effort has been made the child should not be weaned. Tuberculosis in the mother makes it unadvis- able for her to suckle her infant. If one may judge from the experimental evidence as to tuberculous cows the risk of infection is ex- tremely small, unless the breast itself is tuber- culous ; but so long as there is any active tuberculosis in the body the possibility of infection by the milk cannot be absolutely excluded, and, moreover, the activity of the disease in the mother seems in some cases to be increased by suckling, so that it is wiser on the whole to wean. The presence of old tuber- culous lesions, such as spinal curvature or scars of tuberculous glands, so long as they are quiescent and there is no active focus of infec- tion elsewhere, need not prevent the mother from suckling her infant. Syphilis in the mother does not per se contra- indicate suckling, except in the very rare cases where syphilis is acquired during pregnancy and the child shows no evidence of syphilitic taint. Where the mother shows no symptoms of syphilis, but the infant shows evidence of the inherited disease, there is some doubt as to whether suckling should be allowed. Apparent exceptions to CoUes's law have occurred, in which the infant has infected the mother in this way, but such cases are extremely rare, and the vital importance of breast-feeding, especially for the weakly syphilitic infant, has to be balanced against the very remote chance of infecting the mother. The risk of infection is probably much greater for a wet-nurse, who certainly should never be allowed to nurse such an infant. Infants have occasionally acquired syphilis after birth; the risk of infection from such infants is great, and necessitates immediate weaning. The occurrence of an acute febrile disease on the mother, if it last more than two or three days, may necessitate taking the child from the breast, partly because the milk under these conditions sometimes disagrees with the child, and partly for the mother's sake ; but it is well to remember that even after the child has been kept from the breast for two, three, or even four weeks, it is sometimes possible to start the flow of milk again by putting the child back to the breast, and in some cases the secretion will con- tinue if the milk is drawn off by a breast-pump regularly during the mother's illness. Often, however, the milk ceases altogether if suckling is stopped, even for a few days ; it is important, therefore, not to take the child from the breast unless it becomes absolutely necessary. Puer- peral fever or any other of the infectious fevers necessitate weaning. The return of the menses during lactation is no reason in itself for weaning. An idea seems to be prevalent that when this occurs the milk necessarily becomes harmful to the infant. Undoubtedly the milk does sometimes disagree with the infant during the menstrual period, but even where this occurs the disturb- ance is usually only transitory and slight, and more often there is no disturbance whatever. That some variation may occur in the composi- tion of the milk during menstruation has been shown by analysis, in some cases the proteids and fat have been increased, in others dimin- ished ; but in most cases the variation is so slight as to pi'oduce no evil effect.