354 IMMUNITY or B. pyocyaneus, their blood-serum even in very small quantities will, according to Gruber and Durham, respectively agglutinate these dif- ferent bacteria in suspension. The phenomenon can either be observed macroscopically in tubes or microscopically in hanging drops, the latter being the finer method of the two. In Gruber's reaction, in short, the different bacteria are thrown down by their respective specific im- mune serum. Yet, according to Gruber, the reaction is not an absolutely specific one, since powerful cholera immune serum, for example, can also agglutinate other allied forms of vibrios. Yet an immune serum always acts most effectively {i.e. is still potent when greatly diluted) on its respective specific bacterium. It is still doubtful whether the agglutinins—those substances of the immune serum which cause surface adhesion of bacteria—are identical with the true specific anti-substances of the immune serum, or whether both substances exist inde- pendently in the serum. The agglutinins, at any rate, as compared with the alexins, exhibit the same resistance to a temperature of 60° to 65" C, to putrefaction and to the influence of light as the true specific anti-substances, and therefore closely resemble the latter. Cases, however, have been observed where the serum possessed distinct power of agglutination, yet no specific protective power. A point of importance is that the agglutinins disappear, or are used up during the reaction (Gruber), just as occurs if bacteria are cul- tivated in their specific agglutinating serum (PfeifFer). In both cases the agglutinins are directly absorbed by the specific bacteria, as has been lately proved by the fact that the absorbed agglutiuins can be redissolved from the bacteria by dilute alkalies, and separated by centrifuging (M. Hahn and TrommsdorfF). The agglutinin solution thus obtained can again agglutinate specific bacteria added to it. {b) Typhoid.—The immunisation of animals against typhoid bacilli is performed in the same way as against cholera vibrios (R. PfeifFer). Agar cultures of typhoid bacilli, one day old, are suspended in bouillon, are killed by heating at 65° for one hour, and are once or repeatedly injected. The serum of the animal thus treated then exhibits a specific bactericidal action on typlioid bacilli, i.e. if living typhoid bacilli are injected together with this immune serum into the peritoneum of a normal guinea-pig they are rapidly destroyed, whilst without the immune serum the same bacteria would multiply and cause the death of the animal. Such an experi- ment is still successful if the specific immune serum has been heated to 60°-65°. The true active anti-substance is therefore preserved in the typhoid immune serum, even at the above- mentioned temperature, and the normal animal body has only to supply the requisite alexin, whilst the specific anti-substance predisposes the bacteria to the influence of the latter. The conditions are therefore analogous to those of cholera. In the human subject a certain degree of protection can be conferred against typhoid as against cholera, and the serum then gains dis- tinct specifically bactericidal power. A single injection of 2 mg. of a dead agar culture (i^^th of a culture), to which 0'5 per cent of cai'bolic acid has been added, is sufficient for an adult. Injection under the skin of the back is followed by transient elevation of temperature to 38"5° C, headache, and depression; the seat of injection and the neighbouring lymphatic glands are for a few days very tender to pressure. The blood, even a week afterwards, may act specifically on typhoid bacilli, for when such serum even in a dilution of 1-200 is mixed with typhoid bacilli and injected into the peritoneum of guinea-pigs the bacilli are quickly destroyed. Such serum, however, does not always agglutinate in vitro. It is not yet known whether such inoculation affords the human subject protection from typhoid when infection has occurred in the usual manner per os. Soldiers on their arrival in India have of late been inoculated for typhoid by Haffkine, but the results are not as yet decisive. Treatment of animals, guinea-pigs, rabbits, and goats does not furnish a serum as active against typhoid bacilli as was the case in cholera. Yet rabbits after a single injection of three killed agar cultures usually furnish a serum which agglutinates in a dilution of 1-150. The power of agglutinating typhoid bacilli pos- sessed by the serum of animals treated with typhoid bacilli, or of persons who have recovered from typhoid, is of great importance for the diiferential diagnosis of these bacilli. The phenomenon is the same as in the case of cholera (Gruber and Durham). The reaction is, however, not absolutely specific, for typhoid immune serum agglutinates not only true typhoid bacilli, biit also B. coli and B. enteritidis Gaertneri. But whilst true typhoid bacilli are agglutinated by a powerful typhoid immime serum, even in a dilution of 1-100 or 1-500, a more concentrated serum—a dilution not greater than 1-30 or 1-50—is always necessary to agglutinate these other bacteria. The pheno- menon of agglutination acquired great practical importance from the clinical standpoint by Widal's discovery that typhoid bacilli are agglutinated not only by the serum of persons who have recovered from typhoid, but also as a rule by that of typhoid patients in the first few weeks or days of their illness. This method of diagnosis ought to be termed the Gruber-Widal reaction, for it is merely the clinical application of the phenomenon of agglutination first dis- covered by Gruber. The Technique of the Gruber - Widal Reaction. —The serum of the suspected typhoid patient