IMMUNITY 353 absolutely fresh immune serum, or, to one no longer so, add a drop of fresh normal serum (Bordet). PfeifFer showed that even on the introduction of old and hence apparently inactive serum, or of immune serum which had been heated to 60°-65° C, into the peri- toneum of a normal animal, vibrios are dissolved there. This was formerly regarded as due to a sort of " regeneration" of the true specific anti-substance which is preserved in spite of heating to 65° C, but we now know that the phenomenon is due to the presence of the normal alexins and to a combined action. By the action of the specific anti-substances, re- tained after heating to 65° C, the cholera vibrios become predisposed to the solvent action of the alexins. The French, therefore, often designate this anti-substance as "substance sensibilitrice " {v. p. 370). The formation of these specific anti-substances in the animal body has hitherto been shown to occur chiefly in the spleen, bone-marrow, and lymphatic glands (Pfeiffer, Marx, Wassermann). After these discoveries had proved the pos- sibility of conferring to men and animals definite protection against cholera, HafFkine in India carried out similar protective inocula- tions with cholera vibrios in more than 40,000 persons. Emulsions of agar cultures of living cholera vibrios are injected subcutaneously. His first vaccine is yVth of an agar culture of dead vibrios, or of vibrios which have been attenuated by cultivating a series of agar subcultures at 39° C. The second vaccine, of an agar culture of vibrios rendered virulent by passage, is afterwards injected. A few hours after the injections the temperature usually rises l°-2° C, but returns to normal in twenty-four hours. Such a reaction with local pain and swelling, with rigor, depression, and anorexia, is, however, not an effect peculiar to cholera vibrios, but follows upon the subcutaneous injection of all bacterial emulsions, and even of innocuous and killed bacteria (Buchner, 1890). Kolle then demonstrated that one injection of a dead cholera culture—2 mg. fresh agar culture sus- pended in 1 cc. of bouillon—causes the same effect as repeated inoculations, and that the bacteriolytic power of the serum beginning to rise after the fifth day reaches its height on the twentieth. Protection due to preventive inoculation may therefore be looked for after the fifth day, an expectation which harmonises with actual results so far. The results of preventive inoculations are on the whole favourable, even though, owing to the existing difficulties, exact statistical proof of the total morbidity and mortality of inocu- lated and non-inoculated be not forthcoming. Yet there are many observations indicating its value. In Calcutta in 1894, a record was made of every case of cholera occurring in thirty-six VOL. IV houses with a total of 521 inhabitants : 181 had been inoculated before the outbreak of the epidemic, some a considerable time previously, and of these 4 (2'2 per cent) were attacked and died of cholera; 340 had not been inoculated, and 39 of them (11-6 per cent) died. In one of these houses there were 18 inhabitants; of the 7 uninoculated persons 4 were attacked and 3 died, and not one of the 11 inoculated individuals was attacked. During the cholera epidemic of " The Gya Jail" inoculation was only com- menced after the beginning of the outbreak. In 287 uninoculated persons the final mortality was 4'9 per cent, being 2-4 per cent among the inoculated. We must assume that these pro- tective inoculations, to a certain if not a great extent, do not act by an accumulation of specific anti-cholera substances in the body, but by an increase of natural general resistance. That this assumption is correct is also indicated by Haffkine's observations, namely, that protection does not last long, and has at any rate com- pletely vanished after fifteen months. A very effective anti-cholera serum can be obtained from animals—guinea-pigs, rabbits, and goats—by treatment with dead cholera vibrios. It is indeed of no value in the treat- ment of cholera, but is so for the differential diagnosis of cholera vibrios from other closely related forms. Goats yield a particularly potent serum, but rabbits are most suitable, for even on the fifth day after a single injection of about three agar cultures, previously killed at 60° C., they yield a serum which even in solution of 1-200 is suitable for diagnostic purposes. The diagnosis of cholera vibrios by means of such a cholera immune serum is made either by observing Pfeiffer's phenomenon, i.e. the rapid dissolution of vibrios introduced with immune serum into the peritoneum of a healthy animal, or more simply by the specific agglutination discovered by Gruber and Durham. The phenomenon of agglutination consists in the fact that cholera vibrios brought into con- tact with cholera immune serum in a test-tube lose their active motility, and, adhering to one another, collect into little clumps. The clumps soon become larger, and form first small and then larger flakes, which are deposited as a sort of sediment at the bottom of the fluid, which now becomes clear. Other observers had pre- viously seen similar phenomena, but had not recognised their diagnostic significance. Gruber and Durham were the first to describe agglutina- tion accurately, and to regard it as a fundamental action of specific bacteriolytic immune serum, and their statements were immediately after- wards coiifirmed and amplified by the writings of R. Pfeiff'er and Colle, and Pfeiffer and Vagedes. Agglutination is not only seen with cholera vibrios. If animals have been treated with certain forms of vibrios, typhoid bacilli, B. coli 23