HYPNOTISM 292 Hypnotism. Historical 292 Methods of Inducing and Terminating THE Hypnotic State .... 293 Experimental Phenomena of Hypnosis . 293 Therapeutic Uses of Hypnotism . . 294 Use in Surgery ..... 301 Use in Obstetrics .... 302 Stages of the Hypnotic State . . 303 Susceptibility ..... 303 Kemarks on Methods and the Manage- ment OF the Hypnotic State . . 304 Theories of Hypnotism . . . 304 See also Alcoholism {Treatment, Breaking the Habit); Catalepsy {Differential Diagnosis) ; Colour Vision {Disturbance of Colour Percep- tion) ; Dipsomania {Treatment) ; Hysteria {Treatment, General); Malingering {Curative Means); Memory in Health and Disease {Periodic Loss of Memory/, Diagnosis); Stammer- ing {Treattnent). Introduction.—Hypnotism, although officially recognised, can hardly be described as well known. Hence facts must be cited and explana- tions given which would be out of place in dealing with more familiar departments of medicine. For those who wish to understand, and possibly to practise, hypnotism, something more is required than a mere account of cases which have been relieved or cured by it. In- formation on many points is necessary, as the questions put to me show, and to these the following article is an attempted reply. Historical Just as chemistry arose from alchemy, as- tronomy from astrology, so hypnotism had its origin in mesmerism. Hence, among hypnotic phenomena are to be found those mesmeric ones which have stood the test of rigorous investiga- tion, and are now explained in a more scientific way. Phenomena such as Mesmer {h. 1734, d. 1815) described had been observed from an early date in human history, but after his day they were usually called by his name, and explained by his theory, i.e. by the action of a mysterious force or fluid which emanated from the operator. In 1837 a great mesmeric revival began in England, of which John EUiotson was the prime mover. After seeing the experiments of Dupotet, EUiotson introduced mesmerism into his hospital practice and teaching. Shortly afterwards, however, this was forbidden by the hospital authorities, whereupon he resigned his appoint- ments and continued his work independently. Mesmeric infirmaries were opened in London, Edinburgh, Dublin, and elsewhere, thousands of patients treated, and hundreds of painless operations, including ampvitations of the thigh, etc., performed. Elliotson's influence spread to India. There James Esdaile, surgeon to the East India Com- pany, heard of his work, and, in 1845, tried to mesmerise a Hindoo convict about to undergo a surgical operation. The result was successful, and, at the end of a year, Esdaile reported 102 painless operations to the Government. Shortly afterwards he was appointed to a Government hospital in Calcutta, so that he might further test mesmerism as an anfesthetic. Until he left India, in 1851, Esdaile occupied similar posts, and recorded nearly 300 painless major opera- tions and many thousand minor ones. The mesmeric work of EUiotson and Esdaile was bitterly opposed by the medical profession, and the movement practically ceased at Elliot- son's death. James Braid (born 1796, died 1860) com- menced his mesmeric investigations in Nov- ember 1841, after seeing Lafontaine produce apparently genuine phenomena. Braid demon- strated the subjective origin of mesmeric pheno- mena, substituted the term hypnotism for that of mesmerism, invented the terminology which we still use, and employed hypnotism with good therapeutic results. He published many works on the subject, all now out of print, and most of them little known. A list of those which I have been able to trace, thirty-eight in all, is to be found in the Revue de VHypnotisme for June 1898. In 1859, Azam of Bordeaux became acquainted with Braid's work, and commenced to investi- gate the svibject. About the same time, Broca and Velpeau drew the attention of the Academie des Sciences to Braid's researches. The interest thus excited soon faded, and it was not until 1883 that Neuryjmology—Braid's first published book—was translated by Jules Simon. Despite the fact that Braid's theories were adopted by such well-known men of science as Professors Carpenter and John Hughes Bennett, the prac- tice of hypnotism apparently ceased in England at his death. In 1860, Liebeault began to investigate mes- merism, and, four years later, started his gratu- itous practice of hypnotism amongst the poor of Nancy. He published Du sommeil et des e'tats analogues consideres surtout au point de vue de Faction de la morale sur le physique in 1866, but of this one copy alone was sold, and Liebeault's work was ignored by the profession until Bern- heim became a convert in 1882, and employed hypnotism in his hospital practice. In 1884, Bernheim published De la suggestion dans I'e'tat hypnotique et dans Vetat de veille, and, in 1886, La therapeutique suggestive. Liebeault's name now became well known, and doctors flocked from all countries to study his methods. Independently of Liebeault, Charles Richet, in 1875, drew attention to the genuine nature of hypnosis, and termed the condition somnam- bulisrne provoque. In 1878, Charcot began to lecture on the hypnotic phenomena observed in