552 IXTESTTXES, SUROICAL AFFECTIONS OF anastomosis, of which I prefer the latter. li , the condition of the patient does not allow of this, the involved portion of intestine must be ' drawn out and packed round with gauze in such a manner as to thoroughly isolate it and block the abdoniLnal wound : then the bowel is to be opened above the intussusception and slit up through the length of it to reUeve the strangulation and permit of faeces passing through the artificial anus. This operation, if the patient recovers, i-eqvdres a second one at a later date to restore the continuity of the canal, and this is a disadvantage, but the present safety of the patient must be the first consideration. Volvulus.—After the abdomen is opened, the marked distension and vasctilar disturbance of the sigmoid flexure, easily recognised by its longitudinal bands and appendices epiploicfe, which become apparent, makes the diagnosis clear. An attempt should be made to guide a tube introduced through the anus into the distended bowel for the purpose of emptying it. If this cannot be done the patient should be turned over on to his side, and the wound, being protected by gauze, the presenting loop of sigmoid should be incised longitudinally and drawn fon\"ard by a pair of haemostatic forceps fixed on either side of the incision. As the contents escape, the bowel is to be further drawn out from the wotmd by the forceps. When empty of its contents the bowel is washed, wiped dry, and the opening in it is closed with clamp forceps, the whole being covered with iodoform gauze. An examination of the empty sigmoid loop is then imdertaken and the twist imdone. The hole, if it has been necessary to make one in the bowel, is next closed with a continuous suture of catgut ^ through all its coats, with the object of making it watertisrht and arrestinor all bleedins. This first row is covered in bv a second row of fine silk Lembert sutm-es, and the bowel is cleansed ^ and returned. Before closing the abdomen the centre of the loop should be sutured to the parietal peritoneum to prevent a relapse. Bands.—As these mostly contain a blood- vessel, and are sometimes a hollow prolongation of Meckel's diverticulum, it is a wise precaution before dividing them to apply two clamps and cut between, subsequently ligaturing each end. The portion of bowel nipped by the band should be examined before letting it drop back into the abdomen. I lost a patient on one occasion by perforation of the intestine at the ulcerated site of a narrow band on the tenth day after operation. If the ring of the intestine does not recover its normal appearance after the applica- tion of a hot sponge, it should be doubled in by drawing the intestine above and below over it, fixation being secured by a few fine silk Lembert sutures. If then it should slough or ulcerate, it will do so safely into the lumen of the gut. Internal Hernice.—If a loop of the bowel ensnared cannot be withdrawn by the opening through which it has passed, without enlarge- ment, the frequency with which a blood-vessel surrounds this opening has to be borne in mind. If possible, the safest method is to enlarge the aperture by stretching with sinus forceps passed through it guided by a director. The same precaution as to examining the nipped intestine is necessary in this case as in that of a band. Cases of hernia into the duodeno-jejunal fossa have been recorded in which no portion of the small intestine was visible on opening the abdomen, the whole of the jejunum and ilemn having passed into a pouch, of which this was the neck. A knowledge of this fact wiU make a recognition of the condition to be dealt with and its treatment easier. Gall-stones.—A gall-stone large enotigh to catise obstruction will probably be readily re- cognised by intra-abdominal palpation. The portion of intestine containing it shoidd be drawn forward and examined. If the stone is lodged close to the Ueo-csecal valve, a gentle attempt should be made to push it on into the colon, where it may be left to pass on by natural eiForts. If this cannot be done, or if the stone is lodged in the jejunum, or higher in the ileiun, it should be squeezed upwards for some inches into an unirritated piece of intestine : and after this has been di-awn out of the abdomen, the intestinal coats over the stone shotild be incised longitudinally at the convexity of the intestine, emptied of the stone and other contents, and sutured in the manner previously described, and returned with the precautions for avoiding sepsis already mentioned. Stricture of the Small Intestine.—If the stricture is simple and annular it is readily and safely dealt with by enteroplasty. In tliis operation the intestine is opened three-quarters of an inch above the stricture on its convex side, and a guide is passed on through the stricture, which is divided in the same hne by an incision extending three-quartei"S of an inch below the stricture. The longitudinal wotmd is cleansed and sutured transversely %vith an internal row of catgut sutures passing through all the coats, and an external row of silk Lembert sutures burying it. The same treatment is also occasionally the best palliative for annular maUsrnant stricture of the small intestine which is not removable as such strictures usually are, but as a rule in these cases an anastomosis above and below is the most satisfactory' method of treatment. More compHcated strictures, as for example those associated with active tuber- culous disease, are best treated by excision of the diseased and strictm-ed portion of the in- testine, or by making an anastomosis above and below the stricture. If the condition of the patient does not allow of this, enterostomy