63 HEAD-SHAKING somewhat similar head-movements are due to chronic hydrocephalus or to some other organic brain disease, and in which the prognosis is naturally altogether less favourable. The nystagmus of these cases can often be distin- guished from more serious forms by its having recently set in without obvious cause, and by the movements being confined to one eye or being diiTerent in the two eyes. Treatment.—While sedatives may appreciably diminish the extent of the movements they are not of much importance in the treatment. The chief thing is to secure abundance of fresh air and sunshine, and to put the child on an anti- rachitic regimen with cod-liver oil and phos- phorus. Hea.ling^ Sore. See Ulcers and Ulcer- ation {Healing Sore, Treatment). HGcllth. See Epidemiology ; Meteor- ology {Influence on Health); Vital Statistics {Test of Health of a Community). Health Resorts. See Therapeutics {Health Resorts). Hearing-, Artificial Aids to. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth ; Brain, Physiology of {Motor Areas, Eighth Nerve); Brain, Tumours op {Localising Symptoms); Brain, Cysts {Porencephaly); Children, De- velopment OF {Hearing); Deaf-Mutism; Ear, Examination of, etc. ; General Paralysis {Symptoms); Mind, Education of {Memory); Paranoia ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases {Remote Symptoms); Uraemia {Acute, Special Senses). The artificial aids to hearing may be divided into two groups, those which by their action improve the impaired conductive function of the diseased ear, and those which, by collecting the waves of sound, bring them to bear upon the organ in a more concentrated form. To the former group belong the varieties of so- called "artificial tympana." The latter group comprises the various forms of ear-trumpets, conversation-tubes, etc. A knowledge of their action and limitations is necessary to every practitioner, since the exploitation of useless and often harmful artificial aids is one of the commonest of the many forms of quackery which are the curse of this country. 1. Artificial Tympana.—A nearly complete list of the different artificial ear-drums invented by surgeons is as follows :—1. Yearsley's cotton- pellet. 2. TurnbuU's cotton-ball attached to thread. 3. TurnbuU's disc of adhesive plaster. 4. TurnbuU's disc of sublimated gauze. 5. Thomas' disc of oiled silk. 6. Barr's cotton- pellet fixed by collodion. 7. Blake's disc of sized paper. 8. Field's disc of india-rubber, cotton-wool, and flannel. 9. Burkhard Merian's solid disc of india-rubber. 10. Toynbee's solid piece of india-rubber on a silver wire stem. 11. Politzer's india-rubber tube as long as the meatus. 12. Lucse's india-rubber disc attached to a rubber tube. 13. Downie's circular patch of egg pellicle. 14. F. H. Pierce's disc of stout linen with cotton thread soaked in vaseline. 15. Richardson's gold cylinder. 16. Michael's glycerine thickened with tannin. 17. Farquhar Matheson's plug of powdered boric acid. 18. Ward Cousin's hat-shaped membrane of com- pressed cotton. 19. Dadysett's combined trum- pet and ear-drum. Of these artificial tjanpana, Toynbee's instru- ment and all its modifications are to be condemned. They are the favourite pattern of the aural quack, and, at the meeting of the British Medical Association in 1888, the opinion was expressed that the so-called "car-drums" largely advertised, and consisting of a piece of india-rubber fixed to a metallic stem (Toynbee's form), often cause serious injury to persons already suffering from defective hearing, especi- ally in those who are the subjects of suppuration. The variety most employed by otologists is the original cotton-pellet of James Yearsley, first introduced into practice in 1848. This simple contrivance owed its origin to the following occurrence:—In 1841 a gentleman from New York consulted Yearsley for large perforations of both membranes. On being- told the condition of his ears, he said : " How is it, then, that by the most simple means I can produce in the left ear a degree of hearing quite sufficient for all ordinary purposes %" He did this by means of the " insertion of a spill of paper, previously moistened at its extremity with saliva, which he introduced to the bottom of the passage." Yearsley's artificial tympanum consists of a small pellet of cotton-wool, either twisted up with a tail, or tied about its middle with a cotton thread. Hartmann, of Berlin, prefers a pellet witli an elongated tail, the latter tied round with thread, and the whole waxed. The pellet probably acts as its inventor originally believed, viz. by supporting the ossicular chain. Yearsley believed that the membrane has an important action in supporting the ossicular chain, and that the pellet restored this support when lost by perforation. In some cases of old non-suppurative middle ear inflammation with a lax membrane the cotton- pellet will greatly improve the hearing power. The advantages which may be claimed for Yearsley's cotton-pellet are:—(1) It is simple and effective. (2) The patient can make it for himself. (3) It can be made of antiseptic wool. (4) It is easy of manipulation. (5) It is well tolerated by patients (one of Knapp's cases wore one for 29 years). In fact, if the writings of modern otologists be consulted, it will be found that it is this, or some modification of