IMMUNITY 374 in the circulating blood. Bacteria live and multiply in these regions of lowered bacterio- tropic pressure. Thus in the case of an abscess the opsonic power of the pus serum was found to be only one-sixth of that of the blood. Wright's work on Opsonins has chiefly been made use of and extended in connection with tuberculous infection. Tubercle may be either localised, or general, and attended with consti- tutional disturbance. In localised tubercle the opsonic index is low; in the generalised form it may be either low or high, up to as much as twice normal. When the infection is active the opsonic index rises and falls within wide limits, because the patient is inoculating himself with successive doses of tubercle, and in consequence negative and positive phases are alternating with one another. The question naturally arises, Is the low opsonic index in localised tuberculous and staphylococcal infections a cause, or a result, of the bacterial invasion ? Wright is of opinion that it is an evidence of failure of the defences of the organism, and that to it the infection is due. The diagnostic significance of the opsonic index in tuberculosis may be stated thus :— (1) Persistently low opsonic power, with evi- dence of a local bacterial invasion, is a sign of tubercle. (2) Normal opsonic power -with a local bacterial invasion excludes tubercle. (3) Fluctuating opsonic power indicates active tubercle. (4) If heating a serum of which the opsonic power is 1- does not inactivate it to the same degree as normal, it indicates either active tuberculosis or vaccination with tuberculin. (5) If the opsonic power of the fluids from the focus of invasion differs from that of the blood, tubercle is indicated ; if it is the same, the in- fection is non-tuberculous. Technique of the Estimation of the Opsonic Index.—Blood is collected in a pipette, shaped as in the diagram (Fig. 2); the ends are sealed and the tube is t hooked by its curved end to the centrifuge. On centrifuging the corpuscles collect at a, the tube is broken across at h, and the serum pipetted off. Serum free corpuscles are next obtained by allowing some of the observer's V- blood to drop into a solution of n 1 per cent sodium citrate in U, I j normal saline. The mixture is ^^^zLy thoroughly centrifuged and the Fio. 2. supernatant fluid decanted off; more saline is added, the mixture is again centrifuged, and the process is re- peated once more. After this second washing the upper layer of corpuscles, which is rich in leucocytes, is employed as " washed cor- puscles." Next an emulsion of the organism to be used is made by pouring some one or two per cent saline solution on an agar slope on which there is a culture. This is allowed to settle. the upper part is centrifuged to remove clumps of bacteria, leaving a slightly opalescent super- natant fluid — the bacterial suspension. The tubercle emulsion is made by grinding up a loop- ful of dead bacilli in an agate mortar with salt solution, and then centrifuging. Having made these preparations, we mix eqxial parts of serum, blood corpuscles, and emulsion, using as a measure a capillary tube with a mark about an inch from one end, and provided at the other end with a rubber teat. The serum is drawn up to the mark, and then an air-bell is allowed to enter, next the emulsion is sucked up, and another air-bell, and then the corpuscles. The contents of the tube are then blown out on to a slide, thoroughly mixed, and re-aspirated into the tube once more. After being sealed, the tube is incubated at 37° for 15 minutes. A control preparation containing normal instead of pathological serum is made and treated in the same way. From the two tubes films are made and stained in the usual manner. The number of bacteria in 20 or 30 cells is counted, and an average struck. The ratio of the num- ber ingested in the preparation with the patient's serum to that in the control, stated as unity, gives the opsonic index, e.g.— Patient's serum -f washed corpuscles + bac- terial suspension. Average bacteria 1'5. Normal serum 4- washed corpuscle -I- bacterial suspension. Average bacteria 3". Opsonic in- dex — or "5. 3- Antituherculous Inoculation.—Wright advises the use of very small doses of Tuberculin R.— Tcnjo' to B"io milligram. The remedy should only be employed when there is evidence that the infection is localised, as shown by a per- sistently low opsonic index. Following upon inoculation there is the usual negative phase, succeeded by the positive phase. It is import- ant not to repeat the dose during the continu- ance of the former. Practically the tuberculin should not be given at intervals of less than 10 days. Wright finds that it is not possible to produce a cumulation of positive phases by re- inoculating during the positive phase. On the other hand, it is easy to produce a cumulation of negative phases by re-inoculating during the negative phase. Hence he prefers to regard each inoculation as a separate event, and to be satisfied if ultimately the opsonic index can be raised to the normal level. Antistaphylococcus Inoculation. — A consider- able measure of success has attended the treat- ment of localised staphylococcal injections with a vaccine consisting of a sterile culture of staphylococci. The amount inoculated is from ■5 to 1 cc. increasing to 2 cc, and the vac- cine is standardised so that each cc. contains 2,500,000,000 staphylococci. Injection is fol- lowed by a negative, and then a positive phase. It is possible by using this vaccine to raise the