GYNAECOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS IN 11 the uterine cavity, or superinvolution (rare) from adhesive inflammation, and (5) ha3morrhage (rare). (/) Precautions: (1) eliminate possibility of pregnancy, (2) establish strict asepsis in and after operation, (3) avoidance of force, and (4) rest in bed for patient for a day or two before operation, for a week after it, and at the next menstrual period. (V.) AspiRATOEY Needle. Occasionally, when a fluid collection in the abdomen or pelvis (especially in one of the broad ligaments) has been diagnosed, it may be well to discover its nature (before operation) by aspirating some of it through the vaginal roof or even through the abdominal wall. An ordi- nary hypodermic needle may be used, or Bartlett's exploring aspirator, or a Pravaz syringe. In this way fluid for chemical, bac- teriological, and microscopical examination can be obtained ; and Fehling (1902) claims for the method important diagnostic results. (VI.) Cervical Dilators. (1) Eapid Dilatation with metal or hard rubber dilators. (a) Description : (i.) the gyntecologist may use a number ,(24) of metal rods about six inches long, and having a diameter increasing in a graduated manner from inch to about ly^^ inch ; such have a short flat handle and are slightly curved ; (ii.) similar rods in hard rubber are the well-known Hegar's dilators ; (iii.) metal dilators with expanding blades (two, or better, three in number) have also been used, those of EUinger, Goodell, Sims, and Schultze being the best known ; Bossi's large metal dilator is not so useful in gyntecological as it is in obstetric practice. {b) Mode OF Use : (1) if the graduated rods be employed the patient is anaesthetised, the vagina rendered aseptic, and the cervix fixed with two volselhe ; the sound is passed to deter- mine the direction and length of the uterine cavity; then the dilators, sterilised and coated with vaseline, are passed in (just as the sound is) one after another, beginning with one a little larger than the ordinary uterine sound ; dilata- tion, sufficient to allow the passage of the index finger, ought to be attained in from fifteen to twenty minutes; (ii.) if the expanding metal instrument be employed the preliminaries are the same, and then the dilator is passed into the cervix with the blades closed; the handles are then slowly approximated, causing gradually separation of the blade and dilatation of the canal. (2) Sloiv Dilatation with Tents : (a) Historical Note : tents, first made of sponge, were introduced by J. Y. Simpson, who had noted the dilating effect upon the cervical canal of a polypus growing down into it, and was led to devise a means of similarly dilating it by an enlarging body inserted into it from below. (b) Description : Tents are conical bodies, a little longer than the cervical canal, and differ- ing slightly in calibre; the material may be sponge (dried, compressed, impregnated with an antiseptic, covered with grease, and having a tape at the proximal end) or sea tangle (lami- naria digitata), or tupelo {nyssa aqiiatilis); of these tupelo is generally preferred, for it absorbs fluid more readily, and so expands more quickly and to a greater degree than the other two. (e) Mode of Use : (i.) Preliminary Precau- tions : patient in bed in her home or in hospital (do not introduce tents in consulting-room, as was formerly done); vagina is douched with antiseptic lotion before and after introduction of tent; prepare tents (only tupelo and tangle are now used) by dipping them in strong antiseptic lotion, and then in sterilised water; patient's vulva is to be sterilised, as also operator's hands ; (ii.) place patient in semi-prone or lithotomy posture, pass Sims' speculum, draw down cervix by means of volsella attached to anterior lip, and pass the tent, on a sound or tent-carrier or held in a pair of forceps, into the cervical canal (to introduce a tent with the fingers alone, and without seeing the cervix, is not to be recom- mended) ; an iodoform gauze plug is placed in the vagina; (iii.) the tent may be left in for twelve hours, and a qualified attendant must be within easy reach of the patient during this time, and a vaginal douche every four hours may be given and the plug replaced ; it is to be withdrawn by gentle traction on the string attached to its base; (iv.) a second tent may be used after the first, but with care. id) Indications: (1) tents are seldom used nowadays for diagnosis alone; (2) almost their sole use is to restrain hsemorrhage and ;dilate the cervix to permit of active treatment in cases of abortion, and more especially in molar preg- nancies {e.g. hydatid mole). (e) Dangers and Contra-indications : (1) the chief danger is sepsis, and it is a very real one, especially with sponge tents; (2) the contra- indications are jjelvic inflammation (including oophoritis and salpingitis), cancer of the cervix, and haematocele. 8. Physical Examination of the other Systems op the Body (Nervous, Respiratory, Circulatory, Digestive, Urinary, Cutaneous, and Locomotory). (i.) Although the gynaecologist's attention is specially focussed upon the physical examination of the genital organs, he must not neglect alto- gether that of the otlier systems of the body. For instance the examination of the blood may reveal a leucocytosis, indicating deep-seated suppuration in the pelvis, and may even help in the differential diagnosis of malignant from simple ovarian cysts; the examination of the