HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 136 ally in the form of sphyginogram already de- scribed as that of the second stage pixlse of mitral stenosis. But often an earlier change is occa- sional simple intermission. Almost as frequently there is an abortive beat represented in the sphygmogram during the intermission of the pulse that is felt at the wrist. This is the so-called " missed beat." Lately the writer met with a case which, though the intermission as felt at the wrist was only very occasional, invariably two in place of, one beat proved abortive — in fact there was a rare trigeminal beat. A continuous trigeminal pulse is rare for any length of time, but not so a bigeminal one, and though often associated with the effects of digitalis, it is by no means always so. When- ever an apparently slow pulse is felt, the possi- bility of there being an intermediate beat imper- ceptible through the finger—in other words, of our having to do with a bigeminal instead of a bradycardiac pulse—must be entertained. Ex- amination of the heart with the stethoscope will at once indicate whether this is the case or not. The heart sounds, however, are most difficult to analyse in the presence of this peculiar action of the heart, and the writer questions the utility of entering upon a discussion of the subject. Of course murmurs are often present and add to the complexity of the combination, which vaaj be met with in any kind of heart disease, and would seem, therefore, to be directly associated with the state of the muscle of the heart and of its nervous mechanism. True bradycardia or slow pulse is a rather rare condition, and may be, as far as we know, congenital. It is remarkable, as we shall find, inasmuch as its effects are observed specially on the arterial side of the circulation, syncopal or epileptiform attacks being liable to result from cerebral anremia {vide p. 154). It is evident from the foregoing remarks that several quite distinct types of pulse may be met with in cases of simple muscle failure of the heart, and the variations they present may be extreme ; thus there may be very high tension in the struggle against which the heart muscle is beginning to fail, and there may be extremely low tension when the heart has utterly failed or there is general vaso-motor paralysis. There may be, again, bradycardia or tachycardia and all forms of irregidarity, varying from a rare intermission to a state of utter disorder in which it is impossible to recognise any prevailing type or types of curve. It follows from these\-e- marks that from a diagnostic point of view little is to be expected from observation of the pulse in nniscle failure, but it is far otherwise when therapeutic indications are sought in the same direction. Treatment The treatment of heart disease includes much more than the mere administration of druas. powerful for good or ill though these may be. Nothing seems more rational than the enforce- ment of rest upon the cardiac sufferer. It is impossible to give his heart rest; all we can aim at is diminishing its work as far as in us lies. Of late years much has been heard of a treat- ment in which graduated exercise plays an essential part. This method of treatment is fully described elsewhere in this work (see Thera- peutics, Physical), and it is not for the writer to express his opinion upon it, but he may be per- mitted to quote from Dr. Stokes' work on Heart Disease, published in 1854, the following passage to show that, as far as the exercise is concerned, the treatment is not of such recent origin as is often supposed. The patient is enjoined by Dr. Stokes " to pursue a system of graduated muscular exercise; and it will often happen that after perseverance in this system the patient will be enabled to take an amount of exercise with pleasure and advantage which at first was totally impossible owing to the difficulty of breathing which followed exertion. . . . The symptoms of debility of the heart are often removable by a regulated course of gymnastics or by pedestrian exercise, even in mountainous countries such as Switzerland or the Highlands of Scotland or Ireland." The term " debility of the heart," used by Dr. Stokes, is a singularly appropriate one, and the condition for which the treatment can be alone regarded by the writer as appropriate must be something re- sembling that present in the sedentary man, who, Fig. 8.—High tension iml.se in case of Briglit's disease associated with mitral incompetence resulting from a degree of muscle failure of the heart. Man a-t. 38. Fig. 9.—Low tension pulse. Mitral incompetence associated with endocarditis and adherent pericardium. Man ;et. 2i>, who had rheumatic fever a year before tracing was taken. Fig. 10.—Extremely low tension i)ulse in septic endocarditis. Mitral incompetence associated with much damage to valves. The great size of the dicrotic wave is noteworthy, and the fact possibly bears relation to the pyrexia present.' besides being often an injudicious feeder, allows his whole muscular sj^stem, including his heart, to become "flabliy." This is all the reference