358 IMMUNITY artificially induced by proteus and B. pyocyaneus, Koux and Chamberland in malignant oedema, Roux (1888) in black-quarter {Charhon sympto- matique), C. Frankel in diphtheria, and so on. It is especially in the latter cases that we are concerned with the production of a well- marked specific tolerance of poison. The nature of this tolerance was only made evident after the fundamental facts regarding bacterial toxins had been made known by Roux and Yersin. They showed in 1886, as a result of splendid research, that the poison of the diphtheria bacillus possesses special properties, and more especially extreme susceptibility to heat—being- destroyed at 65° C.—and again the capability of being carried down mechanically by chemical precipitates (calcium phosphate) iu the filtered cultured fluid, properties which had imtil then been recognised mainly in the digestive enzymes. Brieger and C. Frankel confirmed and amplified these facts, and showed that the poisons of diphtheria and tetanus can be obtained in a moderately pure form by means of a method as simple as possible, i.e. from filtered cell-free cultures by simple precipitation with absolute alcohol. These poisons gave the reactions of albuminous substances, and were therefore termed " toxalbumins." But as Brieger has since said that they are not albuminous, it will probably be best to term them specific toxins, in contradistinction to the non-specific toxins resembling ptomaines, e.g. cadaverin, putrescin, etc. Specific toxins are characterised by the fact that they can cause in an animal all the symptoms of the infection in question, e.g. tetanus. In regard to the origin of toxalbumins, Brieger and C. Frankel believed that they were split off from the proteids of the nutrient medium by the action of the bacteria. This is not so, for if diphtheria and tetanus bacilli be successfully cultivated in nutrient fluids con- taining no proteid, toxins are still formed (Guinochet, Buchner). Hence the specific toxins must originate directly from the bacterial cells; they are products of the specific plasma of the bacteria, and are excreted during the life of the latter. Now the specific toxins are to be regarded as the really active principle in the production of specific immunity to poison, although we have to note that solutions containing the poison alone are not suitable when starting immunisa- tion (Roux and Yersin), and again that fluid cultures of diphtheria and tetanus which have lost their poisonous character will confer immunity. These phenomena are accounted for by the presence of modified toxins — which Ehrlich calls "toxones"—which are not them- selves poisonous, yet bring about the formation of antitoxins. When an animal is to be immunised, it is advisable, the true poison being too dangerous, to make a start with its non-poisonous modifications which are contained along with modified poisons in the cultures. After the discovery of diphtheria and tetanus poisons the first attempts at immunisation were unsuccessful as the animals died of chronic poisoning. Tolerance to poison was only gained after the filtrates had been weakened by heating to 60° C. (C. Frankel) or after the addition of certain chemicals (e.g. iodine terchloride, Behring), and the toxins thus destroyed whilst the toxones remained. When once the animals had gained a certain degree of tolerance of poison, poisonous filtrates could then be employed in order to render the tolerance greater and more powerful. Apart from diphtheria and tetanus attempts were afterwards made to isolate a soluble specific cholera toxin from cultures of cholera vibrios, and thereby to immunise animals to this poison (Behring and Ransom). Specific toxins were similarly isolated from typhoid bacilli, pneumococcus, plague bacillus, etc., but they have hitherto been of little practical value. Direct active immunisation to poison is not generally applicable for practical purposes. This is partly because of its associated difficulty and danger, and still more so because in the case of diphtheria and tetanus we must confer rapid protection, and immunisation by injection of filtrates is but a very gradual process. The great significance of active immunisation to poison by the use of toxic filtrates of bacterial cultures depends entirely on the discovery, made by Behring and Kitasato in 1890, of the anti- toxic value of the serum of an animal immunised to poison (i.e. to diphtheria and tetanus toxin). It appeared that the protection from poison obtained by specific treatment can be transferred by the serum to other animals, and that they too are then immune to this specific poison (passive immunisation). Just as immunity to toxic bacterial products can be induced, so can immunity to vegetable toxalbumoses be obtained by the use of these latter substances. By feeding with ricin, abrin, and robin, Ehrlich induced, even in the most susceptible animals, a high degree of immunity to these poisons, and similarly marked immunity to snake venom may be induced in various animals (Calmette, Physalix, and Bertrand). C. Specific Immunity by the Transference OF Blood-serum of actively Immunised Animals—Passive (Antitoxic) Immunisation —Serum Therapeutics. — The most rapid means of conferring specific immunity, and especially specific immunity to poison, is based on Behring's discovery, in 1890, of the trans- ference of blood-serum of specifically immunised animals to other animals or man. It was iu diphtheria that Behring first proved that the blood and serum of animals immunised to diphtheria is capable of at once rendering other animals insusceptible to what would otherwise