40 HEMOPTYSIS coloured material, and each containing one or more small distoma. The septa between the tunnels may break down, producing a consider- able cavity. The distomum pulmonale v. Ringeri v. Westermanni is reddish brown in colour, oval in form, and so thick and fleshy that it is almost circular in transverse section. It measures 8 to 10 mm. by 4 to 6 mm., and is covered by minute spines. Exciting Causes of Hcemoptysis.—Very often there is no exciting cause, but an attack is sometimes determined by muscular exertion, a paroxysm of coughing, mental agitation, men- struation, straining at stool, alcoholism, or extremes of heat and cold. Pathological Appearances.—In the case of a fatal haemoptysis the mucous membrane of the air-passages is usually blood-stained. Blood is found in the trachea, bronchi, and lungs. There may be a thick cylindrical clot extending from the trachea down to the smaller bronchi. The blood is as a rule most abundant in the vicinity of the ruptured vessel, though it is often present in parts quite remote, and not infrequently a large amount of blood-clot may be found in the opposite lung. This flooding of the sound lung with blood is commonly the cause of death in fatal cases by asphyxia. Blood may even be found in the upper lobe of the opposite lung, showing that the inspiratory efforts have been powerful enough to force the blood up against the action of gravity. As regards the heart, it presents the appearances characteristic of death from asphyxia or syncope. In cases which recover, the eff'iised blood is usually completely absorbed ; but Dr. Reginald Thomson has shown that in a number of cases the relics of blood are to be found in the presence of hard, fibrinous, pigmented nodules. In cases of fatal htemoptysis due to pulmonary embolism we find large hsemorrhagic infarctions. In cases which recover, these alter into hard, wedge-shaped fibrinous masses. Putrefactive changes very rarely occur in the effused blood except in those cases where the haemorrhage is the result of inhalation of blood from the parts above the larynx {e.g. epistaxis and mouth operations), when it is due to the presence of the accompanying putrefactive organisms.^ ' Phthisis ah Hccmoptcr:. — Haemoptysis was such .a common and striking feature of consumption that the older writers, from Hippocrates downwards, erroueously regarded phthisis itself as directly due to infective and putrefactive changes in the etfused blood. In later times Niemeyer himself reverted to this old view, basing his opinion on the fact that sometimes hemoptysis is really the first symptom, and also on the fact that pyrexia not uncommonly follows an haemoptysis. Since, however, the discovery by Koch of the pathogenic tubercle bacillus it has been discovered that this after-pyrexia described by Niemeyer is in reality due to infective tuberculous broncho- pneumonia of other portions of the lungs. The term is therefore a misnomer. Symptomatology.—The onset of an haemoptysis may be sudden or preceded by one or two days of staining. Occasionally there is a preceding sense of tightness across the chest. There is usually in tubercidar cases a previous history of cough and expectoration, though in about 3 per cent of cases haemoptysis is actually the first symptom. It is to be noted that the onset is not as a rule associated with exertion or strain, as one might suppose. The patient simply experiences a tickling sensation about the fauces, has a saltish taste in the mouth, and suddenly discovers that his mouth is full of bright blood. The amount expectorated varies in quantity from a mere streak or staining of the sputum to one, two, or more pints of blood. In early phthisis the bleeding is usually small in amount, but is liable to recur. Profuse haemo- ptysis generally occurs in the later stages. In Dr. Pollock's i-eturn of 341 cases of large haemoptysis 12 per cent occurred in the first stage, 41 per cent in the second, and 46 per cent in the third. The blood is generally bright red and frothy, but when very profuse is often dark and clotted, especially if it has gradually accumulated in pulmonary cavities or bronchial tubes. When the flow is not excessive the blood is often mixed with sputum. Blood-casts of the smaller bronchi are occasionally ex- pectorated. Usually the expectoration remains blood-stained for some days after, or there are brownish-black specks in the sputum. In the case of a profuse haemoptysis the patient is generally greatly alarmed—the face is pallid and bedewed with sweat; there is faint- ness, feeble pulse, and coldness of extremities. The blood is brought up with a frequent short cough, and the patient may continue to bring it up for some hours. In severe cases blood may pour out at the mouth and nose, and may rapidly fill a fairly large porringer (or small basin). Some of the blood is often swallowed, and is either vomited or passed per rectum. Owing to the collapsed condition of the patient the temperature becomes subnormal. When the shock has passed off" the temperature rises generally within twelve hours to normal or to its original height before the haemorrhage occurred. In a few instances a high tempera- ture may be observed for some time afterwards, due probably to the formation of foci of infective broncho-pneumonia, the result of insufflation of the lungs with blood charged with micro- organisms from the cavities and softened areas. Dr. Williams regards this after-pyrexia as of ill omen. It may be some time before the patient recovers from the mental depression and from the ever-present dread of its recurrence. The majority of all cases do tend to recur. The term luemorrhagic phthisis has been applied to those cases where haemorrhage is a constant and frequent phenomenon. This frequent recurrence may be explained by the supposition that the