222 HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF by which a dislocation of the femur is produced so that the common primary dislocation is downwards and inwards. But in some cases a direct dorsal dislocation may be brought about by the application of force to the adducted and flexed thigh. The head of the bone then escapes above the tendon of the obturator internus, if the flexion has only been moderate, below it if extreme. A portion of the rim of the acetabulum is often torn off" in direct dorsal dislocation, and in every dislocation a con- tinuance of the force producing the injury may lead to fracture of the pelvis or of the femur. Many of the muscles surrounding the joint (Fig. 2) may be torn, either directly {e.g. the obturator externus, quadratus femoris, obturator internus, or pyriformis) by the head of the bone, or, as in the case of the gracilis and adductor longus, by overstretching when there has been extreme abduction. Injury to the great sciatic nerve may lead to neuritis, to partial paralysis, or even to rupture of the nerve. Secondary Dislocations.—Although in most cases the first position assumed by the head of the bone after it escapes from the acetabulum is downwards, subsequent movements of the injured limb cause this to be only temporary, and the head passes either outwards or inwards, the final position being dependent upon the remnant of untorn capsule binding the shaft of the femur to the rim.of the acetabulum. From the character of the capsule the Y-ligament most often remains untorn, and when this is the case, or when it is only slightly injured, the head of the bone passes into certain well-recog- nised positions, forming a series known as the regular dislocations; but when the Y-ligament (Fig. 1, 6, 7, 7') is completely or in great part destroyed, the head of the bone may stray into quite unusual places, and a series of irregular or anomalous dislocations is then produced. It should be remembered that although the classi- fication here adopted is useful for clinical pur- poses, and for guidance in the reduction of the majority of cases of dislocation of the hip, it is by no means pathologically acciu-ate, and it is for this reason that in some cases the ordinary rules for reduction by manipulation fail ab- solutely. Regular Dislocations. — In the regular dis- locations the head of the femur passes outwards, resting upon the ilium either above the tendon —the dorsal dislocation of the older surgeons (Fig. 3, 1)—or below the tendon of the obtur- ator internus—the sciatic dislocation (Fig. 3, 3). In other cases the head of the femur passes inwards, either inwards and downwards (Fig. 3, 2) —the thyroid or obturator dislocation — or in- wards and upwards (Fig. 3, J/)—the pubic or subspinous dislocation — when the head of the bone lies upon the horizontal rannis of the pubes just internal to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. All inward dislocations present the same general characteristics of abduction of the thigh with rotation outwards, and with a single exception, all outward dislocations cause the thigh to be adducted and rotated inwards. The exception is the anterior oblique dislocation when the thigh is everted and crosses the opposite one high up, the toes being turned outwards, the head of the bone lying on the dorsum ilii just behind the anterior inferior spine. The Y-ligament is intact, and the dislocation may be converted into the ordinary dorsal form, in which the thigh is inverted by inward circum- duction of the extended limb across the sym- physis with inward rotation. When the outer branch of the Y-ligament (Fig. 1, 7) is torn, the head of the femur may pass forwards and upwards until it lies at a higher level than when the ligament is intact— a supras2nnous dislocation is then produced—the limb being much shortened, slightly abducted and everted. An anterior oblique dislocation is readily converted into a supraspinous dislocation by rupture of the outer branch of the Y-liga- ment, so that this variety may be produced in two ways, either liy the head passing outwards and upwards or inwards and upwai'ds. When the outer branch of the Y-ligament is torn and the head of the femur passes outwards and backwards, an everted dorsal dislocation is pro- duced, the limb being everted and slightly abducted, so that it resembles a fracture of the neck of the femur. Flexion, adduction, and internal rotation of the thigh readily convert an everted dorsal into the ordinary inverted dorsal dislocation. When the inner branch of the Y-ligament (Fig. 1, 6) is torn, the head of the bone may slip much farther forwards than is usual, and the head may lie upon the pubes close to the pubic spine. Anomalous Dislocations.-—Extensive destruc- tion of the Y-ligament enables the head of the femur to pass upwards or downwards, either vertically below the acetabulum, backwards upon the tuber ischii, or downwards and for- wards into the perineum. Relative Frequency.—The regular dislocations are said to occur in the following order of frequency :— 50 to 55% dorsal above the tendon of the obturator iuternvis. 20 to 25% sciatic or dorsal below the tendon of the obtiu'ator internus. 10 to 15% thyroid or obturator dislocations. 5 to 10% pubic or subspinous. Signs.—The general signs attending a dis- location of the hip are an alteration in the length of the injured limb, diminished power of movement, with locking of the joint in certain positions, and an alteration in the axis of the limb. In a simple dislocation there is no crepitus, and when the displacement is reduced