IMMUNITY 356 ment of animals with killed cultures has the power of agglutinating, and as a rule, but not invariably, that of immunising. 4. Protective Inoculation with Bacterial Cell Stibstances.—In different instances, for example, cholera, typhoid, and plague, we have seen that active immunisation may be effected by the killed bacterial cells, whilst the associated fil- trates are inactive. In these instances, therefore, the substances conferring immunity must be contained in the bacterial cells themselves. The bacterial cell substances, which are mainly of a proteid nature, are obtained—(a) By extraction with boiling water, whereby albumoses—so- called bacterial proteins—are formed (the older tuberculin, mallein); (b) or without induction of chemical change by purely mechanical pul- verisation of the bacterial cells (tuberculin TR, bacterial plasmin). (a) Immunisation ivith Bacterial Proteins— Tuberculin.—Koch's tuberculin is obtained by concentrating at the boiling-point cultures of tubercle bacilli in glycerine bouillon. The proteids of the tubercle bacillus are in conse- quence partly dissolved, and they are purified by repeated precipitation with 60 per cent alcohol. The active principle, therefore, consists in the dissolved proteins of the tubercle bacillus which resemble albumose. Subcutaneously their action is similar to that of other bacterial pro- teins, causing hyperleucocytosis which in man is merely local, swelling, redness, tenderness, and with stronger doses fever, as previously mentioned. But as even a very minute quantity of tuberculin is sufficient to cause a reaction in the body, we assume that it has a specific action, as well as the general action of a bacterial protein manifested by increase of natural re- sistance to bacteria. Tuberculin has much less effect on healthy than on tuberculous guinea- pigs. The former can stand a subcutaneous dose of 1-2 cc, whilst the latter invariably succumb to 0-5 cc. Man is much more sus- ceptible ; in a healthy adult even 0-2.5 cc. causes great rise of temperature, severe local pain, general depression, and so on, whilst after O'Ol cc. the symptoms are as a rule only trivial. This dose given to a tubercular patient, however, usually causes severe fever, lasting twelve to eighteen hours, and at the same time a well- marked local reaction in tubercular areas, which is specially evident in tuberculosis of the skin, lupus, but which occurs in tuberculosis of the internal organs too. A few hours after the administration of tuberculin the tubercular areas commence to swell, and there is marked increase of blood-supply within them and in their immediate vicinity. In consequence of the great difference in the susceptibility of tubercular and of healthy people to tuberculin, its use is of considerable importance for the diagnosis of latent tuber- culosis. The normal temperature having previously been accurately ascertained, an adult i-eceives a first injection of 1 mg. tuberculin, a few days afterwards 5 mg., and still later 10 mg. The corresponding doses for children under 10 years of age are 0-5, 1-0, and 5-0 mg. The temperature must be taken every three hours, and an elevation of 0"5° C. above the normal temperature of the individual indicates a positive reaction. This diagnostic procedure ought to be employed more than it has hitherto been. If the reaction be doubtful the same dose is to be repeated, or a larger one may be given. No injection should ever be given to a feverish patient. Tuberculin remains unchanged for a long time because it contains a large amount of glycerine. In veterinary medicine tuberculin has for years been in general use as a diagnostic agent, and especially for the diagnosis of tuberculosis in cattle. The dose for a cow is 0"5 cc, and it is only a greater rise of temperature than 1° C. which can be regarded as positive proof of tuberculosis. There will be few errors in diagnosis if the diagnostic inoculations and the post-mortem examinations of the animals are accurately and carefully made. Out of 124 animals which had previously reacted to tuberculin Nocard found 123 to be tuberculous, although the disease was often localised and obscure. These diagnostic inocu- lations have been much used on a large scale in Denmark and France, and have been an excellent means of weeding out tuberculous animals. R. Koch recommended tuberculin for thera- peutic as well as diagnostic purposes; at first it was taken up enthusiastically, but it was afterwards as severely discarded, yet the con- demnation of tuberculin has probably been too pronounced. If guinea-pigs infected with tuber- culosis are given an injection of dilute tuberculin every day, or every second day, their condition is improved, and death is deferred from the ninth to the nineteenth week. After death animals thus treated show marked pulmonary tuberculosis, whilst the tuberculosis of the abdominal organs is undergoing cure. Control animals not treated with tuberculin soon die from tuberculosis of the liver and spleen; pul- monary tuberculosis, which is a late manifestation after inoculation with tubercular bacilli, has not had time to develop in them. This favourable effect of tuberculin is not due to a direct action on the tubercle bacillus, but to the reaction— combined with hypersemia—of the tissues which are the seat of tuberculosis. We liave already indicated that tubercular lesions in an organ are cured by a permanent increase of blood in the latter. Hence tuberculin is merely a means of inducing local hyperiemia of tubercular foci. In spite of these experimental results most physicians have had an unfavourable experience of tuberculin as a curative agent. This is due