HERNIA 190 most I'esistant part of the uppei' end of the sac. In an inguinal hernia the most resistant part is the external abdominal ring ; in femoral hernia the crural ring. It is at these two points, in my experience, that the obstruction most usually is found. In reading the accounts of operations for strangulated hernia we are accustomed to meet with the statement that the obstruction is "at the neck of the sac." As I have already remarked, a thick fibrous constriction at the neck, though occasionally existing in the old hernife, is decidedly rare. In an inguinal hernia an operation carried out by any of the methods except Bassini's, Halsted's, or Lock wood's, would not permit an accurate examination of the uppermost part of the sac, and the term " neck of the sac " would probably be held to include anything in the inguinal canal. Now, if in strangulated inguinal hernia the apo- neurosis of the external oblique be divided an inch or more above the external abdominal ring, and the fibres separated down to the ring, it can be demonstrated without the possibility of doubt that in the great majority of cases the strangulating factor is the ring itself. Immedi- ately that is divided reduction becomes possible. That the neck of the sac may sometimes produce strangulation seems clear from the de- scription of specimens of reduction in mass, in which the whole sac has been reduced with the contents still strangled by the cordlike condi- tion at the neck. Such a condition, however, is of extreme rarity. Berger, who investigated the question as to the point of strangulation very fully, so long ago as 1876, wrote that the neck of the sac was " rarely capable of forming a veritable stricture." In femoral hernia the crural ring is the ob- structing agent; division of Gimbernat's liga- ment generally permits of reduction. In umbilical hernia the obstruction is formed by the tight fibrous ring outside the neck of the sac. In some, comparatively rare, examples, there may be an acute strangulation within the sac as the result of the passage of a loop of bowel through a hole in the omentum, as the result of a volvulus at the neck of the sac, or as the result of the nipping of the gut by an adhesion within the sac. Under these circumstances there is an acute obstruction in a hernial sac unconnected with the hernia as such. I'dtholoi/irAil Chaiu/es in the Hernial Contents as the Result of Strangulation.—When a hernia becomes strangulated, the venous channels be- come engorged. Blood can still enter by the thicker and less compressible arteries when it can no longer return through tlie veins. The congestion leads to an exudation of fluid, the colour and general quality of which depend upon the severity of the pathological changes in the bowel. The gut involved becomes blue and livid in appearance, and its colour deepens by degrees until it becomes rich purple, and finally black or ashen grey. Small extravasations appear as the result of the rupture of distended venules; in the mesentery the extravasated blood may form a solid slab of clot. The natural lustre of the bowel is retained for some time, but as the wall becomes thickened and oedematous, the serous membrane looks dull and turbid, and flaky masses of lymph adhere to its surface. Gangrene may affect the whole of the im- prisoned loop, or just that ring of it subject to the keenest pressure at, or near, the neck. This point especially should receive careful examina- tion after division of the stricture, and for that purpose the bowel above and below the snared loop must be pulled down. The indentation made by the stricture is then readily seen, and can if necessary be dealt with. When the epiploon is involved, congestion may pass on to gangrene, but does so very rarely. When omentum is present in a hernial sac, adhesions almost always form, and by them blood-vessels may carry an alternative supply of blood. The fluid in the sac is at first thin and serous, but becomes by degrees more and more deeply tinged with blood ; turbidity is soon noticed, and as soon as the bowel wall is damaged there is an escape of the bacterium coli commune. In the fluid this organism flourishes, produces harm- ful toxic products, and gives rise to a peculiarly foul and penetrating odour. The character of the fluid is a good index to the amovmt of damage the intestinal wall has suffered. In amount the fluid varies considerably. When bowel is in the sac, there is always a fair quantity, but when omentum alone is present, or when a solid viscus such as the ovary is present, the fluid is less. Macready asserts that in 33 per cent of cases of strangulation no fluid is present, an estimate which I consider to be greatly in excess of the truth. As the fluid becomes more putrid it affects not only the sac, but the coverings of the hernia, which become red, inflamed, and oedematous, and may in rare cases go on to gangrene and the formation of a ffecal fistula, the clumsy and im- pleasant result of "Nature's cure." Bacteriological examinations of the fluid have been carried out by many observers. Clado has found the bacterium coli commune to be most frequently present, and in cases of death from strangulation has observed the organism in the spleen, liver, and kidneys, and in larger numbers and more frequently in the limgs. Barbacci has recognised Friinkel's diplococcus, and the staphylococci pyogenes albus et aureus and streptococci have also been found. Brentano asserts that after strangulation has existed more than twenty-four hours, micro-organisms are constant. Weichselbaum considers tlie diplo- coccus pneumonia; as the occasional cause of acute general peritonitis.