482 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS is the content (the subjective fact) of activitj'' for which there is ample cerebral energy. The conditions of pain are inactivity or activity in excess of vitality, both of which are present in melancholia. The exhaustion from which the melancholic suffers occasions weariness ami distress, and his inward regard perpetuates it. All the rest of melancholia is the attempt of the brain to give expression to its altered activities. It is probably a misuse of terms to speak of the melancholic personality, for when the old personality has gone—we cannot say whither—what remains is not worthy of the name, but we may call it the melancholic or inward character. And that expresses itself in various ways which determine what are some- what arbitrarily discriminated as varieties. Simple Melancholia. — In simple melan- cholia, for example, outward movement is of the slightest. The patient is simply and monotonously depressed and quiet, does not moan much, or otherwise express grief. The intelligence may be fairly active and the patient able to appear in society without attracting attention, though always with a burdened mind. When alone, however, he probably resigns himself to his pain, and already has glimmerings of delusions such as might seem to him to account for his distressed state. The characteristic fact of this mode of con- sciousness is this constant undercurrent of pain — a disorder exactly analogous to exhaustion of any peripheral part, though, for reasons referred to in the account of the mind's rela- tion to the brain, the patient does not refer his pain to his cerebral mechanisms, does not locate it. The condition is what is known as a systemic sensibility of an unpleasant tone. In health the sum of cerebral activities has a balance of energy on the right side, in consequence of which the systemic sense is pleasurable, and creates a joy in life. The melancholic, on the other hand, does not find it good to be alive, and from a very early stage would not be sorry to die, and may even feel promptings to end his misery by suicide. And that undercurrent of ill feeling can nearly always be diagnosed, even if the patient will not plead guilty to it. If you watch him unobserved, you will see him assume that in- describable look of self-absorption, as, perhaps, in the middle of some occupation he turns his mind inwards with a sigh, and from vacancy his expi'ession will pass to one of actual pain. Moreover, melancholia has what is called a gymnastic—a definite muscular state, just as exaltation has. Over and above the slight degree of atonicity which prevails, and which occasions attitudes and movements that betoken slight muscular feebleness, the voluntary muscles assume positions of automatic contraction. The characteristic pose of exaltation is in general one of extension. But you will rarely observe ex- tension in a melancholic unless he is making an effort. When he lies down his legs automatic- ally flex, and his arms and hands. Similarly his brow puckers downwards, his mouth purses, and his eyes are rarely wide open. I am speak- ing, of course, of what happens when the patient is not aware of his movements. In other words, the muscles are beginning to assume the poses appropriate to grief, and which in their extreme form are known to us all as revealed by the actor's art, or as commonly expressed in sane woe. Other varieties of melancholia similarly suggest that the disordered activity follows a systematic course. Acute Melancholia.—The progress of disease from simple to acute melancholia is obviously systematic. It is in fact merely a deeper degree of melancholia. The outward regard, occasion- ally possible in the simple variety, is now wholly impossible. Self-regard correspondingly in- creases, and so also does its accompanying pain. Similarly the gymnastic of melancholia is inten- sified, and the patient's muscles automatically assume poses and attitudes which are stereo- typed as well-marked expressions of distress. (Note that, except on the stage, these shows of grief are rarely observed in the sane.) In acute melancholia volition is profoundly affected, so that the patient is no longer able to conceal his grief, and with every new loss of power self-regard is accentuated and its con- sequent pain. Or to expi'ess it more correctly, outward regard is still further lost, and nothing in the environment has its proper influence on the consciousness of the patient. In many cases this is so pronounced that even if you speak to him, or try to move him about, he behaves as one in a painful dream, not looking up, not speaking, apparently never turning his attention from his distress. And it is important to ob- serve that this excess of self-regard is without adequate reference to normal bodily facts. For while in the visceral variety of melancholia there is over-attention to internal stimuli, the con- sciousness, in simple and in acute melancholia, does not sufficiently embrace ordinary physical facts. Attention to what we may in a very wide sense describe as the " calls of nature " are in- hibited. The melancholic seems not to be aware of the discomfort of an empty stomach, of a full bladder, of drenched garments, of an luiwashed and unkempt person, or even of minor surgical injuries. And much of our treatment must be a provision against the dangers of such a state. The motor signs arc similarly accentuated, and the classical expressions of pain sit, from morn- ing to night, on the patient's face, hands, shoulders, trunk, and legs. And now also the morbid activities find their way in systematic directions much more obviously. There is much more mental movement of a disordered kind. For example, instead of the intervals of sane thinking of which the simple melancholic is