HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF 230 Diseases of Great Trochanter . . 244 Diseases of Bur sob in Region of Hi]) ■ 244 Tumours in Region of Hip . . 244 Paralysis of Muscles acting on Hip . 244 See also Deformities (for Congenital Dis- locations). In individuals of average nutrition the con- stituent parts of the hip-joint are not available for direct examination. We are unable to de- tect the presence of fluid or the existence of synovial thickening so readily as we can in other joints, so that in the diagnosis of hip disease we are compelled to rely upon evidence which is indirect, e.g. the presence of a limp in walking, an alteration in the attitude of the affected limb, restriction or loss of the normal movements of the joint, etc. The accurate in- terpretation of these phenomena necessitates considerable clinical experience, and no little care, on the part of the observer. He must be able to measure correctly the length of the lower limbs and of their different segments, to ascertain the position of the great trochanter in relation to Nelaton's line, to Bryant's triangle, and to determine the attitude of the lower limbs in relation to the pelvis, and of the pelvis in relation to the spinal column. The hip-joint may be located as follows:— From the mid-point of a line drawn between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis pubis a perpendicular line directed down- wards will divide the joint into two equal halves. A horizontal line projected inwards from the upper edge of the trochanter will pass through the centre of the head of the femur ; in children the trochanter is at a higher level, so that a similar line will touch the highest part of the head. The whole of the anterior and fully one-half of the posterior aspect of the neck of the femur is covered by synovial mem- brane, so that not only lesions of the epiphysis and epiphysial junction, but also those in the neck of the bone, are capable of direct exten- sion to the synovial membrane and to the cavity of the joint. While the capsular ligament of the hip is of extraordinary strength, there are certain weak points through which infective material may escape from the joint into the surrounding tissues; the most important of these is on the anterior aspect, where a bursa intervenes between the capsule and the ilio-psoas; the bursa communicates with the joint in one out of ten bodies; a second weak point exists immediately above the trochanter minor, where the tendon of the obturator externus passes above the insertion of the ilio-psoas; a bursa may intervene between these structures, and may communicate with the joint. When the spongy bone constituting the floor of the acetabulum is the seat of infective disease the latter may extend within the pelvis, giving rise to a swelling which may be felt per rectum, and it may be also to complications involving the pelvic viscera. Only these diseases of the hip are here described which present distinctive features. For other diseases the reader is referred to the general article on " Diseases of Joints." Tuberculosis. Morbus Cox^e. General Facts ..... 230 Pathological Anatomy— Relative frequency of Synovial and Osseous Disease . . . .231 Seat of the Bone Lesions . . .231 Nature of the Bone Lesions . .231 Clinical Features— Stage of Onset ..... 232 Stage of Abduction and apparent Lengthening . . . .233 Stage of Adduction and apjmrent or actual Shortening . . . 234 Formation of Abscess . . .234 Occurrence of Dislocation . . . 235 Bilateral Hip Disease—Crossed-Leg Deformity . . . . .236 Diagnosis ■. . . . . . 236 Prognosis ...... 237 Treatment— Conservative Methods . . . 237 Lnjection of Iodoform . . .238 Treatment of Abscess . . . 238 Operative T'reatment . . . 239 Correction of Deformity from Ante- cedent Disease . . . .241 Tuberculous disease of the hip, or " hip disease" as it is commonly called, without further qualification, is especially common in the class of patients who frequent hospitals. It is of great importance, inasmuch as it is a cause of prolonged invalidism or confinement to bed; it is attended with a considerable mortality (only second, so far as the skeleton is concerned, to disease of the spine and pelvis), and, especially if untreated, it may result in permanent deformity. The clinical study of hip disease is not unattended with difficulty, partly because the morbid changes are less open to inspection and palpation than is the case in other joints, and partly because of the complicated relationships of the lower ex- tremity to the pelvis and spine in the various phases of the disease. General Facts as to Age, Sex, Relative Frequency, etc.—It is essentially a disease of early life ; it rarely commences after puberty, and very rarely after maturity. In any case of hip disease in an adult one should be doubtful of its tuberculous origin, unless it is a relapse of antecedent disease. Hip disease is slightly more common in the male than in the female. The frequency of disease at the hip, in rela- tion to that of other parts of the skeleton, varies