172 HEPATIC Hepa.tlC.—Relating to or affecting the liver (Gr. ywap, the liver) ; for hepatic abscess, see Liver, Tropical Affections of (Perihepa- titis, Supp'Ltration) ; for hepatic aneurysm, see H.EMATEMESIS {Causes) ; for hepatic colic, see Colic {Diagnosis from other Colics) ; and for hepatic diseases, see Liver, Diseases of. HepatiCOStomy.—The making of an artificial opening into the hepatic duct. Hepa.tisa.tion. — The consolidation of the lung tissue so that it comes to resemble that of the liver, met with in pneumonia, and described as red (in the second stage of pneu- monia), grey and yellow (in the third stage), or white (in syphilis). See Pneumonia {Physical Signs). Hepatitis. See Gall-Bladder and Bile- Ducts, Diseases of {Cholangitis) ; Liver {Acute Hepatitis, Tropical Abscess). Hepatocele. See Liver, Diseases of ( D isplacements. Hernia). Hepatocholang^ioenterostomy. —The establishment of a direct communication between the parenchyma of the liver and the intestinal canal {Kehr). Hepatol it h.—A biliary calculus. See (^all-Bladder, Diseases of (Gall-Stones). Hepatom phalOS.—Congenital hernia- tion of the liver at the umbilicus. See Liver, Diseases of {Displacements). Hepatopexy. — Fixation of the liver in its normal position by surgical means {e.g. suturing it to the anterior abdominal wall or costal arch). See Liver, Diseases of {Hepa- toptosis). HepatoptOSiS.—Wandering or floating- liver, prolapse of the liver. See Enteroptosis ; Liver, Diseases of {Heimtoptosis). HepatorrhexiS.—Rupture of the liver. See Abdomen, Injuries of {Contusion, Lesions of the Liver). Hepatotomy.—Incision of the liver. HephaestiC Hemipieg-ia. — Ham- merman's cramp (Gr. "H</jaicrro9, Vulcan, master of the arts of working in metal, etc.) See Neuroses, Occupation. Herapatilite.—The iodo - sulphate of quinine (named after the chemist, Herapath), and formerly used in scrofula. Herculesbad. See Balneology {Aus- tria, Hun gii )■!/). HerCUieuS iViorbus. —Epilepsy {'/.v.). Hereditary Ataxia. See Paralysis {Hereditary Ataxia, Friedreich's Disease). Heredity. Definition . . . . . .172 Physical Basis of Inheritance . . .172 Dual Nature of Inheritance . . .174 Different Degrees of Hereditary Resem- blance. . . . . .174 Filial Regression . . . . .175 Laio of Ancestral Inheritance . . .175 Reversion . . . . . .176 Transmission of Acquired Characters . 177 Telegony . . . . . .179 Inheritance of Disease . . . .181 See also Alcoholism {Etiology, Heredity as a 7''actor); Amblyopia {Toxic, Hereditary Neuritis); Asthma {Nature and Etiology); Chorea {Heredi- tary Adult Chorea); Colour Vision {Influence of Heredity) ; Convulsions, Infantile {Eti- ology) ; Dbafmutism ; Diabetes Insipidus {Eti- ology); Gout {Heredity); lliEMO'PmLiA{Etiology); Hay Fever {Etiology, Heredity); Heart, Affec- tions OF Myocardium and Endocardium (Eti- ology) ; Hysteria (Etiology); Insanity, Etiology op (Heredity and Neuroses) ; Life Insurance (Family History) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of (Etiology, Heredity) ; Maternal Impressions ; Nephritis (Etiology, Renal Cirrhosis) ; Obesity (Etiology); Paralysis (Primary Lateral Scler- osis, Causation); Paralysis (Hereditary Ataxia) ; Pregnancy, Multiple (Predisposing Influences); Senile Insanity (Pathogenesis) ; Spasm (Para- myoclonus multiplex); Syphilis (Syphilis in Children, Hereditary) ; Tetany (Causation) ; Typhoid Fever (Etiology, Family Predisposition or Immunity). Heredity is a term for the relation of organic or genetic continuity which binds generation to generation. It is an anachronism to speak of it as a power, or principle, or force. Similarly, inheritance may be defined as all that the organism is or has to start with in virtue of its genetic relation to its parents and ancestors. The central problem of heredity is to arrive at an accurate conception of the genetic relation between successive generations; the central problem of inheritance is to measure the resem- blances and differences in the hereditary charac- ters of successive generations, and to find, if possible, some general formula which Avill sum up the facts. Physical Basis of Inheritance.—If we mean by inheritance all that an organism is or has to start with in virtue of its genetic relation to its parents and ancestors, then it is plain that the physical basis is in the fertilised ovuul There is, as regards property, an obvious distinction between the inheritance and the person who inherits, but no such distinction is possible in 1 biology, for the fertilised ovum is the inherit-