INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF 511 may be apprehended " under circumstances denoting derangement of mind and an intention of committing an indictable offence," and re- moved by warrant of the Lord-Lieutenant from gaol to an asylum. Into licensed houses, charitable institutions, and single care, patients are admitted upon the following documents :—1. An order by a relative or connection of the lunatic. 2. A medical certificate of two medical practitioners. In cases of urgency the signature of a single medical practitioner is sufficient, provided that a second be added within fourteen days of the first. Finally, the proceedings under inquisition, which are practically the same as in England. The Advisability of Asylum Treatment. — From the foregoing account of the methods of pro- cedure in force for the legal deprivation from persons of unsound mind of the management of their affairs, it will appear that several degrees and modes of deprivation are recognised and sanctioned by the law, and the first question that will present itself to the practitioner, when he has determined that his patient is of unsound mind, will be. Which of these degrees and modes is proper to be adopted in this case ? Ought the patients to go to an institution, or to be placed in private care 1 and in either case ought he to be persuaded to go, and ought his remain- ing there to depend upon his own free will as it is influenced by moral suasion, or ought he to be deprived of his liberty by due process of law? The decision must depend upon several very diverse considerations, of which the chief are— The nature of the malady, the age of the patient, and his means. 1. The Nature of the Malady.—A patient who is definitely suicidal or acutely maniacal ought to be at once sent under certificates to an insti- tution. To this rule there is no exception. It is only in an institution that the structure and appliances of the building are specially arranged for the accommodation of such patients. It is only in institutions that the windows, the appli- ances for lighting and heating, the staircases, the water-closets, the bedsteads, and a score of other arrangements, are specially adapted to obviate the suicidal or dangerous or destructive proclivities of the patient; and although it is, of course, within the competence of persons of sufficient wealth to adapt the structure of their houses and the contents of their houses in a similar way, it is not competent to them to effect these alterations with the necessary speed to secure the immediate safety of their relative. Moreover, such patients need, if not the con- tinuous services of a medical attendant, at any rate the continuous presence of a medical attendant within call; and this is scarcely to be obtained at a moment's notice in a private house. Even in the case of a man of unbounded wealth, who could secure the services of an unlimited number of experienced attendants of all grades, the element of time would always necessitate the immediate removal of the patient to an institution as a first step. The rule admits, therefore, of no exception. But the I question immediately arises. How are such ; patients to be recognised ? With respect to the maniacal patient there is no difficulty. The degree of his excitement, the outrageousness of his acts, at once place the matter beyond doubt. But with the suicidal patient the difficulty is often great. A definite attempt at suicide, of I course, settles the matter. After that there can be no doubt. But it by no means follows that a melancholic patient who has made no attempt, and no verbal reference to suicide, has yet not formed a determination to take his life on the first opportunity ; and it often tests to the uttermost the diagnostic power of the most experienced expert to determine in any given case whether the tendency exists or no. As a rule, the non-expert greatly under-estimates the likelihood of a suicidal tendency. The expert, on the other hand, tends rather to over-estimate it. But then the latter has probably seen such disastrous results from the under-estimation that lie deliberately chooses to err upon the safe side. Whenever melancholia is decided, is pronounced, and whenever mania is acute, and is unattended with exaltation, a suicidal tendency should be strongly suspected, nay, should be "conclusively presumed," and measures should be taken accord- ingly. It is not said that where these features ai-e not present the suicidal tendency will be absent, but that where they are present it may be presumed. Where neither suicidal tendency nor acute mania is present, the question of treatment in an institution will depend upon the amount of I control that it is necessary to exercise. Where the amount of control needed is not great; where the patient does not need very vigilant supervision; where his disorder of conduct is not of such a nature as to imperil his own safety or that of others; is not displayed in sexual matters; is not such as to render him very conspicuous; is displayed only at intervals, and on occasions that can be foreseen and provided against; then he may be properly treated in private care. But when the conditions are the reverse of these he ought to be placed in an institution. There the amount of control that can be exercised, and that ordinarily is exercised, is much greater than in private care, and there- fore that is the proper destination of patients for whom much control is needed. For this reason patients with delusions of persecution are unsuitable for private care. Eveiy such patient is a potential homicide, and requires an amount of control that need not be very strict, but that must be continuous; and continuity of control can be secured much more certainly in an insti-