INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 505 delusional melancholia in early stages, in later stages (tertiary and onwards) progressive de- mentia, or delusional suspicion and impulsiveness, or epileptic insanity, or tabetic insanity of anomalous forms, or resembling insanity of deprivation, or pseudo-general paralysis, or general paralysis. Tuberculosis. —- In active phthisis, suspiciousness, moroseness, quarrels, tickle melancholia with mild delusions, or with hysteria, or with stupor, and, later, acute mania, or suspicious melancholia often with refusal of food and impulsiveness, with masking of physi- cal signs, and, if not recovered, ending in fitful, asocial, querulous, semi-dementia; in slow tuber- culosis, especially if abdominal, visceral melan- cholia. Septiccemia.—Acute, confused, delirious insanity, often recoverable, or ending in death by exhaustion, or going on to chronic mania with delusions and hallucinations (this includes some surgical cases and some puerperal cases). (c) Constitutional Diseases. Gout.—In active gout, angry melancholia, or delirious mania (especially in over-use of sedatives), in " retro- cessed gout," violent insanity perhaps epileptoid, in " suppressed gout," slow insanity often with hallucinations, in " undeveloped gout," neuralgic, neuritic, hysterical excitement, or moodiness. Rheumatism.—In acute fever, cf. "Typhoid," later a recoverable mania, melancholia rarer, or a slow amnesic, anergic insanity. Diabetes.— ^lelancholia with delusions of fear in persistent diabetes, or acute mania with temporary dis- appearance of glycosurea. Urcemia.—Fearful melancholia, great dread, exacerbations of violent excitement, impulsiveness. {d) Affections of Nervous System. Shock (in- cludes some puerperal and some surgical cases). —Confused, excited insanity with affection of memory, fancifulness, and perhaps hallucinations. Traumatism.—Moodiness, suspicion, outbursts of excitement, amnesia, motor signs, altered reaction to drugs. Sunstroke.—Neurasthenia, debility, motor or sensory signs, altered reaction to drugs, headache, melancholia and hypochon- driasis, oftener exaltation and resemblance to general paralysis. Neurasthenia.—Various in- sanities. Hysteria.—Vain mania, often erotic. Epilepsy (q.v.). Chorea {q.v.). Apoplexy.—In later stages, excited insanity, anmesia, great proneness to laughing and crying, impulsiveness, violence, dementia. Deprivations (of hearing, sight, etc., and should include aphasia and some other lost movements).—Vexation, self-conscious- ness, dread, irritability, confusion, suspicion, excitement, delusion ; melancholia rarer. Gene- ral Paralysis (q.v.). Tabes.—General paralysis, or, not infrequently, pseudo-general paralysis, or anomalous insanity with chronic exaltation and exacerbations of violence. (e) Disorders of Digestive System. Para- digestion. — Various insanities. Dyspepsia.— Melancholia with hypochondriasis. New Growths. —Visceral melancholia, with delusions of sus- picion. (/) Disorders of Respiratory System. Phthisis (above). Asthma.—Recurrent mania or chronic mania. Pneumonia.—Cf. " Typhoid." (ff) Disorders of Heart, Vessels, and Blood. Cardiac Disease.—Melancholia with delusions of fear; in aortic disease, violence and varia- bility commoner ; dementia early. Atherojua. —Excited suspicions, melancholia, dementia. Aneurysm. — Visceral delusions. Anaemia.— Melancholia in men and in mature women; in young people, stupor or fickle, fanciful, excitable insanity with erotic and hysterical symptoms. Myxcedema (see "Thyroid"). Cretinism {q.v.). (h) Affections of Reproductive and Genital Organs. Ovarian and Uterine Disease.—Recui- rent insanity, delusions of sexual misfortune with melancholia, or delusions of exalted marriage with mania, modification of secondary sexual characteristics (beard, etc.); (delusions of a dis- agreeable kind often attach to some one person in the neighbourhood). Functional Excess.— Curable stupor, or progressive dementia. Pro- static Disease and Stricture.—Vexation, irrita- bility, dread, excitement, sometimes going on to delusions of suspicion. Insanity, General Treatment of. Introduction ...... 505 The Reduction of Function . . . 507 Legal Provisions—England . . 508 Scotland . . 510 Ii'eland . . 510 Question of Asylum Treatment . .511 Nature of the Disease . . .511 Age and Means of Patient . . 512 Regulation op Control . . .513 Other General and Special Treatment 514 Sleep . . . . . .514 Diet 516 Organo-Therapy . . . .517 The General Treatment op Insanity.— Disease is known by the failui'e of function to satisfy the need of the organism. Treatment of disease is the endeavour to readjust the balance between function and need. There are two methods by which this balance may be restored. The impaired function may recover its efficiency, so that it again suffices to satisfy the need, or the need may be reduced until the impaired function is sufficient to satisfy it. The restoration of function by artificial inter- ference is seldom possible. Instant restoration, when it can be effected, is almost exclusively the privilege of the surgeon. He can instantl}' reopen the lumen of a hollow viscus whose obliteration prevented the passage of the visceral content. He can remove the tumour or evacuate the abscess, or cut the constriction which is interfering with function. He can tie the artery whose wound allows of the escape of that blood