HTP-JOINT, DISEASES OF 242 serous synovitis with pain, tenderness and fever ; the amount of fluid may be so considerable as to cause swelling in front of the joint. The more serious form of the disease is sometimes attended with great suffering and marked flexion, and may result in disorganisation of the joint and ankylosis. Suppuration is extremely rare. It is probable that some of the hip affections met with after childbirth are of gonorrhojal origin. Progress and Terminations.-—In the milder forms of pyogenic disease of the hip, recovery may take place with more or less complete restoration of function; in isolated cases the disturbance of growth at the neck of the femur may result in ciirvature (coxa vara). In more serious forms there may be persistent sinuses from disease (necrosis) in the femur or aceta- bulum, there may be fibrous or osseous ankylosis of the joint, permanent deformity from con- tracture of the soft parts, from separation of the epiphysis, from dislocation, and in children there may be impairment of the growth of the limb. In the gravest forms, especially where several joints or bones are involved, death may take place from general infection or toxine poisoning. The occurrence of dislocation has been specially observed in relation to typhoid and other fevers, usually from some slight movement or push, when the limb is flexed and adducted; the dislocation may be the first indication of the existence of the joint lesion; the antecedent condition may be one of serous or purulent synovitis; destruction of bone, either of the head of the femur or of the rim of the aceta- bulum, is exceptional. If the child has been allowed to recover with dislocation on to the dorsum ilii, he is usually able to walk and run about, but with a limp which becomes more pronounced as he grows up ; the features closely resemble those of congenital dislocation, and it may be impossible to distinguish between them unless an accurate history is obtainable. The movements are very free, except in the direction of abduction. The shortening may amount to 2 to 4 inches or more. The treatment is conducted on general prin- ciples, and includes that of any disease of which the hip affection is a complication. The limb is extended by means of the weight and pulley, and kept rigid with the single or double long splint, or by means of sand-bags. If the swelling of the joint persist, and if there is evidence of suppuration, the joint should be explored by an anterior incision inclining downwards and in- wards from the anterior superior iliac spine. In children it is remarkable how completely the joint may recover if the pus is promptly evacu- ated under rigid antiseptic precautions. If there is dislocation of the femur it should be reduced by manipulation with or without preliminary extension; it has been successful in about one-half of the cases in which it has been attempted; with results which have been very satisfactory; preliminary tenotomy of the shortened tendons may be required in some cases. Where reduction by manipulation is impossible, the joint structures should be exposed by one or other of the methods employed in excising the joint; if the obstacle is found to be the filling up of the acetabulum by newly- formed tissue, this must be removed; if the head of the bone has disappeared, the neck, or failing it, the trochanter should be fixed against the acetabulum, thereby diminishing the shorten- ing at the expense of mobility. The author achieved this in one case, after dividing the shortened muscles, by driving a long steel pin through the trochanter into the acetabulum, and fixing the limb in the abducted position ; the patient, a girl aged 15, was thereby enabled to bring both heels in contact with the ground and to walk very much better than she had done before. The treatment of gonorrhoeal disease of the hip is the same as in other joints. Acute Osteomyelitis in the Vicinity of the Hip-Joint.—This lesion may originate in the acetabulum or in the upper end of the femur, the latter being the more frequent; in many cases the disease runs its course without sup- puration ; extensive necrosis is exceptional; separation of the femoral epiphysis is nearly always attended with destructive changes in the joint. The disease usually affects children who are apparently healthy, it begins acutely- with shivering, high fever, and severe pain, necessitating confinement to bed from the first onset. A doughy swelling forms in the region of the hip, usually in Scarpa's triangle. If suppuration takes place the features are those of acute abscess, which if left to itself results in the formation of sinuses. Rectal examination is of value in cases which originate in the aceta- bulum. Treatment is carried out on the same lines as in osteomyelitis elsewhere. The sequelae which may be met with in neglected cases include contracture, deformity (usually extreme flexion with adduction), ankylosis, shortening of the limb, separation of the upper femoral epi- physis, spontaneovis curving of the bone (coxa vara), fracture of the neck of the femur, and dislocation. Death occurs in a considerable proportion of cases (about 15 per cent). Acute and Chronic Rheumatism of the Hip-Joint The joint lesions in acute rheumatism are described under that head. Chronic rheumatism is an ill-defined affection of joints ; it is met with at ages varying from 12 to 50 years; it is usually polyarticular, and is chiefly remarkable for the amount of suffering to which it may give rise, and the great disturbance in the functions of the joint which may result from it.