264 HYDATID DISEASE vital function, and does not injuriously affect the neighbouring viscera, it may produce no symptoms, and even when the size of a child's head may only be detected post-mortem. In other instances the hydatid, as it grows slowly, may have existed for two to thirty years, and be of considerable size before the patient seeks advice; yet the actual duration of the disease is always uncertain, for the date of infection can never be accurately determined. The con- dition is characterised hy the slow and, as a rule, steady growth of the cyst forming a glob- ular, painless, elastic fluctuating swelling, which is not accompanied by fever or cachexia. Fluc- tuation can only be determined when the echino- coccus approaches the surface, and in such cases percussion may occasionally elicit the "hydatid thrill" or fremitus. This "thrill," however, can seldom be obtained, does not necessarily indicate the presence of daughter- cysts, and is not at all characteristic, as it may be elicited in ascitic fluid, or in any tense cyst such as a parovarian cyst. The echinococcus may attain an enormous size, and the pressure eff'ects, which are similar to those of any other cystic tumour, are often very considerable. They vary, of course, as to the organs involved ; echinococci of the liver produce embarrassment of the stomach, intestines, heart, or lungs; echinococci of the pleura or lung cause symp- toms resembling those of pleuritic eft'usion or pulmonary tumour; echinococci of the pelvis cause symptoms referable to the rectum, bladder, etc. Erosion of bone may occur from pressure. If the disease affect the brain, spinal cord, or orbit, symptoms will arise even whilst the echinococcus is small. The symptoms are also dependent on the degree of inflammatory reaction excited. If this be slight it results merely in the formation of a fibrous capsule, but it may, however, cause a chronic inflammation in the affected organ, e.g. hepatic cirrhosis, with consequent functional disturbance. Or the inflammation may proceed to suppuration with the formation of a localised abscess. This may rupture and so cause puru- lent inflammation of a serous cavity, or death may result from pyajmia. In other cases, and usually in consequence of traumatism, a non-suppurating cyst may rup- ture. The gravity of this occurrence depends on the site into which the contents of the cyst escape. Rupture of a large cyst into the pleura, trachea, bronchi or peritoneum, is usually fatal; rupture into the alimentary or urinary tract, into the vagina or bile ducts, is much less serious, while rupture through the skin is the most favouable of all forms of rupture. Echinococcus of the liver forms from 50 per cent (Neisser) to G6"9 per cent (Hosier and Peiper) of all hydatids. It is usually single, situated in the right lobe, and of slow growth. If small it may cause no symptoms, seldom produce jaun- dice, though more often some cirrhosis, and the patient may be cured by death of the echino- coccus as so often happens, or by rupture into the bile ducts. There may be dropsy, however, from pressure on the vena cava by a small hydatid, so situated as not to be detectable on examination. The cyst is, however, often of large size, may occupy the greater part of the abdomen, and is often adherent to other abdom- inal viscera which become displaced. Such a cyst produces discomfort, a dragging sensation in the abdomen, jaundice and dropsy being unusual. If the hydatid be of only moderate size there will be a visible swelling mainly in the right hypochondrium, smooth on the sur- face, usually yielding fluctuation, and sometimes a hydatic thrill. Over this swelling there is a dull note continuous with that of the liver. If suppuration occur in such a cyst the symptoms will closely simulate those of abscess of the liver; but if the cyst merely increase in size the abdomen becomes enormously distended, and pressure symptoms become well marked— dyspepsia, constipation, dyspnoja, palpitation, etc. Rupture of such a hydatid may occur into the intestines, with either a subsequent cure, or less frequently with suppuration in the cyst. Rupture into the stomach, intestines, or bile ducts is indicated possibly by some diminution in the size of the swelling, but more certainly by the occurrence in the vomit or fajces of portions of cyst wall, hooks, daughter-cysts ("skins"), etc., whilst rupture into the bile ducts may cause biliary colic. Rupture into the peritoneum is usually followed by fatal peritonitis, rupture into the vena cava causes death from pulmonary embolisms, whilst rup- ture into the kidney or through the skin is less serious. If the echinococcus be situated towards the convex surface of the liver its enlargement occurs mainly upwards into the thorax. This variety is often spoken of as a "subphrenic hydatid," and in association with it there is often pleuritic effusion on the right side. The growing cyst displaces the diaphragm, right lung and heart, or may grow through the diaphragm, and more or less fill the right pleura.i The symptoms and signs of echino- cocci extending into the thorax from the liver are chiefly those of pidmonary hydatid disease. Mtiltilocular Echinococcihs.—If symptoms be caused, as is not always the case, they differ from those of ordinary echinococci of the liver. In the former condition, which has never yet been seen before puberty, the first symptoms are mainly gastric, and are followed by jaun- dice which is usually very severe. The liver ^ Leiihartz has reported a case where by means of the Routgen rays the diaphragm was found to bulge upwards to the level of the second rib {Miltich. med. Wchnschr. 1899, p. 1696).