HYDROCEPHALUS 272 probable that a certain amount of this is poured out during the act of dying, when the cerebral veins and sinuses are gorged and distended. During life under normal conditions any excess of cerebro-spinal fluid secreted in the lateral ventricles drains away via the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius into the fourth ventricle, and thence into the subarachnoid space through the several openings in the arachnoid membrane reflected from the cere- bellum over the fourth ventricle (foramina of Majendie and Luschka). The cerebro - spinal fluid thus making its escape from the lateral ventricles into the subarachnoid space is ab- sorbed by the veins. It is easy to understand if the " way out" of the lateral ventricles be occluded, fluid will be ponded up in the ventricles, and if the resistance to expansion be small, the amount of fluid will gradually increase and dilate the ventricles. A posterior basal menin- gitis is very liable to produce a matting of the structures in the neighbourhood of the fourth ventricle, and consequently occlusion of the foramina of Majendie and Luschka. The same result will follow if the aquednct of Sylvius be blocked by a tumour, as pointed out by Hilton. Another mechanical form of chronic hydroce- phalus is secondary to some obstruction of the veins of Galen by a tumour of the cerebellum or neighbourhocd. The tentorium becomes stretched and the straight sinus compressed. As the veins of Galen drain the choroid plexuses and intra-ventricular veins, any obstruction to the former will lead to an excessive pouring out of fluid in the ventricles. It must be admitted, however, that the greater number of cases of chronic hydrocephalus, especiall}'^ those which are congenital or which are first noticed during the first few months of life, are not the result of meningitis or tumour. In some of these cases a chronic inflammation (? syphilitic) of the choroid plexuses has apparently taken place, but in others no satisfactory explanation is forthcoming. From the above considerations we may divide the cases of chronic hydrocephalus into two groups: the larger group includes the cases which in the present state of our knowledge we call prhiia.rjj, and which are either congenital or occur during the first months of life, and the secondary cases which follow a cerebral tumour or meningitis, and which may arise at any time of life and occur both in children and in adults. The symptoms in both groups, making allowance for age and the other lesions present, will be very much the same. Symptoms.—The most marked and distinctive symptom of chronic hydrocephalus is progressive enlargetnent of the head. At birth the cir- cumference of the normal head is i-oughly 14 in., at six months 16i in., at a year old 18 in., at two years in. In well-marked cases of hydro- cephalus the circumference may be increased by 2 or 3 in., and in extreme cases to as much as 8 or 10 in. In one of the author's cases the head measured 28 in. in an infant a year old. The shape of the head is globular, the cranium enlarging in the transverse more in proportion than in the longitudinal direction ; the enlarged round cranium contrasts markedly with the face, the forehead and occiput strikingly over- hang the face and neck. The fontanelles are widely open and bulge outward ; they have a tense, elastic feel on pressure with the finger; the sutures are separated perhaps half an inch in some places. The scalp and skin over the forehead are stretched and shiny, and the superficial veins distended. The infant is un- able to hold up its head, or indeed to have much control over its movements; it is usually mentally dull and takes but little notice of its friends, but this is by no means the rule, as it is often surprising to note that a hydrocephalic infant with an excessively large head will smile and show signs of moderate intelligence. In the worst cases the infant's health suffers, it gradually wastes, and its emaciated body con- trasts greatly with the enormous size of its head ; life is only prolonged a few months. In other cases the course is more chronic, and the infant's health suffers less; it continues to live month after month, and in some cases year after year. It is unable to sit up or support its head, its intelligence is poor, though probably able to understand a good deal of what is said to it ; the limbs become weak, especially the legs, the deep reflexes are exaggerated, with a tendency to spastic rigidity. In the most extreme cases which live to be a few years old, the eyes are pushed forwards and downwards, there is divergent squint, and difficulty in closing the eyelids. The limbs become flexed and rigid, there is complete amentia, and possibly atrophy of the optic nerves. In a few cases in which hydrocephalus is not extreme, the head ceases to enlarge, and the skull may gradually close up. The child learns in time to walk and talk, but in the majority of cases the intellect never fully develops. Such children may be seen when a few years of age attending as the outpatients of a hospital, with large heads and uncertain gait; or they may be found in asylums as " hj'drocephalic idiots " ; or they drift into the workhouse as they are unable to earn their own living. In a still smaller number of cases complete recovery appears to take place. The head ceases to enlarge, the fontanelles become less bulging, and in the course of many months or longer the head may regain its nornud pro- portions. Improvement or recovery can hardly be expected in any but the slighter cases. Some of these cases are the subjects of con- genital syphilis. In secondary hydrocephalus the symptoms are likely to be mixed up with those of the