HEMIPLEGIA 166 {Cerebral Embolism, Thrombosis, Hemiplegia, Alternate Hemiplegia); Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis of position of Tumour); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Hcemorrhage); Diphtheria {Complications, Paralysis); Eclamp- sia {Diagnosis, Cov^ilications); Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium, Affections of {Hymp>t07)iatology, Cerebral Symptoms); Joints, Diseases of {Associated tvith Lesions of the Nervous System); Malingering {JVervotis Dis- eases, Hemiplegia); Measles {Complications, Hemiplegia); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro- spinal {Symjdoms, Nervous, Paralysis); Neur- asthenia {Symptomatology); Ocular Muscles, Affectionsof{Paralysis); Osteo-Arthropathies {Mode of Production;) Paralysis {Infantile Hemiplegia); Paralysis {Pseudo-Bulbar Para- lysis, Double Hemiplegia); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelm, Nervous System). Whatever objection may be raised to the name hemiplegia it is so widely used, and so easily understood, that no substitute, even were such forthcoming, is likely to displace it. By the term is understood a paralytic affection of the whole of one side of the body, with or without involvement of sensation, and clinical varieties of the ordinary condition depend upon the rela- tive degree of the paralysis in the different parts of the affected side. Thus there is a condition in which the arm on the paralysed side is more affected than the leg; another in which the leg is more affected than the arm; another in which aphasia is superadded to the paralysis; another in which one half of each retina is also affected, giving rise to a condition of hemianopsia, and another in which the cranial nerves may be involved. These varieties depend upon the position in which the lesion causing the para- lysis is situated. Other varieties of hemiplegia are denoted by a descriptive title prefixed to them. Thus crossed hemiplegia (also called alternate hemi- plegia) is a variety in which one side of the face (and perhaps also the external rectus muscle and also the sensation of one side of the face) is affected while the limbs on the opp)osite side are paralysed (see vol. i. p. 496). Double hemiplegia (also known as psextdo-bnlbar para- lysis) describes a A'ariety in which there is evidence of paralysis on each side of the body, the result of a lesion on each side of the cere- brum, or it may be of the pons, and the alter- native name is used because of the close resem- blance in the clinical characteristics of such cases to those of cases of degenerative affection of the nuclei of the bulb—cases of true bulbar paralysis. There is also a condition known as hysterical or functional hemiplegia, but the (jualifying adjective does not imply any marked difference in the characters of the paralysis so much as in its originating conditions. The variety known as infantile hemiplegia, so far as the paralysis both in its extent and distribution is concerned, does not differ in any important essential from the adult type, but does differ in the time of onset, probably also in the nature of the lesion underlying it, and in having certain other symptoms associated with the paralysis. In this article it is proposed to consider the condition of hemiplegia as it manifests itself clinically in an adult—(1) at the onset of the affection, (2) when the paralysis has become well defined in all its symptoms; and also the condition as it occurs in children—the so-called infantile hemiplegia just alluded to—differing in certain important particulars from the con- dition in the adult. (i.) The Condition in a case of Hemiplegia at its onset.—When the patient is seen the history of the mode of onset is of importance, not only as to the nature of the lesion but also in refer- ence to prognosis and treatment. Frequently the account given is that the paralysis has occurred during sleep, although this is often difficult to verify. Not uncommonly the weak- ness has only become obvious when the patient gets out of bed, not aware of the paralysis, and then the history obtained is to the effect that the patient fell down and at once became paralysed, the true sequence of events being that the patient was already paralysed and fell down in consequence of the unilateral weakness. Such a patient when first seen is quite conscious and is paralysed on one or other side. The arm in the great majority of cases is more af?'ected than the leg, and hangs usually limp and useless by the patient's side. In a case with such a history there is frequently no rigidity, and the deep reflexes may be normal at first or even diminished. In tlie paralysed limbs it is found that the most highly-developed movements are those that have suffered most. Thus the fingers may be completely motionless while fair power can be exerted at the shoulder and elbow and even at the wrist. Occasionally it is found that the shoulder is much affected, and then the hand may not be completely paralysed, but even in such a case it is always found to be considerably impaired in its move- ments. In the lower limb the foot does not necessarily suffer most, and indeed the hip movements may be most interfered with. In certain cases of hemiplegia, however, as already stated, the leg is more affected than the arm. This is due to a difference in the position of the lesion in the brain, not to any difference in its character,—the lesion being in such a case so situated as to affect more the leg centre in the cortex or the leg fibres in the white substance or in the internal capsule, than the corresponding structures for the iipper limb. But on account of the fact that the leg is repre- sented on each side of the brain—is bilaterally represented, to use the ordinary phrase—in a much greater degree than the arm, the paralysis