GYNAECOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS IN 9 if it be not; (4) for exploring structures or organs {e.g. ovaries) lying behind the uterus, especially when the use of the volsella is com- bined with the practice of rectal touch ; (5) as an aid in the passage of the uterine sound or curette. (e) THERArEUTic Uses : although we are here concerned with diagnosis, it may be borne in mind that the uses of the volsella (along with other instruments) in treatment are numerous—(1) operations on the cervix (amputation, repair of lacerations, removal of growths); (2) operations on the vaginal walls (fistula), curettage, col- porrhaphy) ; (3) operations on the uterine intei'ior (curettage, enucleation of fibroids, in- sertion of tents or pessaries); (4) extirpation of the uterus (hysterectomy), or of small ovarian cysts (vaginal ovariotomy); (5) exploration of the lower part of the peritoneal cavity (col- potomy); (6) replacement of retroverted uterus {e.g. in pregnancy); and (7) massage of the pelvic organs. (/) CoNTRA-iNDiCATiONS : (1) pregnancy (savc in cases of retroversion, when may be used with care as aid in reposition of uterus); (2) men- struation ; (3) acute peritonitis or cellulitis; (4) dilated Fallopian tubes, especially in pyo- salpinx; (5) hsematocele and tubal gestation; (6) cancer of the cervix. (II.*) Tenaculum : little used nowadays. {a) Description : the tenaculum consists of a metal I'od tapering to the end, the end being a sharp hook. {b) Uses : all the purposes for which it has been recommended are better performed by the volsella, save perhaps its employment in opera- tions for vesico-vaginal fistulse. Two teuacula may be used as a volsella in diagnosing cervical tears. (III.) UTERINE SoUND. {a) Historical Note : a uterine sound is said to have been known to the ancients, but this is doubtful, as a clear distinction was not drawn by them between the os uteri and the orifice of the vagina. In 1843, J. Y. Simpson (Edin- burgh), Huguier (Paris), and Kiwisch (Prague), almost simultaneously invented an instrument for sounding the uterine interior, and the first (Simpson) effectually established its value by abundant clinical evidence ; its introduction marked a great advance in the perfection of gynaecological diagnosis. (6) Description : (1) J. Y. Simpson's sound was a curved rod of German silver, 12 inches long, with a rounded end, and with an oval handle roughened on one side (that which corre- sponded with the concavity of the curve of the stem); the rod had several markings on it at U, 21, 3i, 41, 51 61, 71 and 81 inches from the point; (2) A. K. Simpson's s'ound is more useful; it is a rod of copper, nickel - plated, about 3 inches shorter, with a smaller, and nearly square, handle, and with only four mark- ings on it (a circular ridge at 2 J, a groove at 3^, a double ridge at 4^, and a groove at 5^ inches respectively); these modifications enable the gynaecologist to use the sound in association with the bimanual examination, increase its pliability, and diminish the risk of fracture near the point; the utei-ine probe {e.g. Playfair's) is simply a modified sound (lighter and more pliable). (c) Contra-indications : (I) Pregnancy; (2) Menstruation; (3) Acute inflammation of uterus, ovaries, or pelvic peritoneum ; and (4) Cancer of cervix or body of uterus. {d) Dangers: (1) Froducticm of Abortion; (2) introduction of sepsis; (3) perforation of uterine wall. (e) Preliminary Precautions : the dangers being what they are, it is necessary—(1) to ascertain carefully the date of the last menstrua- tion, and if the patient has passed one or more periods, to refrain from examining with the sound, lest she be pregnant, and so the gynascologist unwittingly cause abortion; (2) to perform a careful bimanual for the same purpose (to exclude pregnancy), and to get an idea of the direction of the uterus. {Note.— The patient may mislead the gynaecologist either intentionally or unintentionally in regard to her menstrual dates); (3) to sterilise the instru- ment, and to cleanse the patient's vulva and vagina; (4) give the sound the curve which the bimanual has shown to be necessary. (/) Mode op Use: (1) by touch alone: with the patient in the dorsal, left lateral, or semi- prone position, the gynajcologist introduces the forefinger of his right hand into the vagina and touches the anterior lip of the cervix; then holding the sound in his left hand, he passes it up along the vaginal finger until the point enters the os : (a) if he has ascertained (by the bimanual) tha^t the uterus is retroverted, he now simply carries the handle of the sound forwards, when, almost by its own weight, the instrument passes into the interior of uterus; {(S) if, however, the uterus lie to the front, then the sound requires to be rotated, so as to make the concavity of the curve look forwards, and this is done by carrying the handle round " the arc of a wide semicircle " (till the rough surface on it is anterior), and then bringing the handle back to the perineum, when the instrument ought (without any force) to slip into the uterine cavity. {Note.—In this second case the forefinger of the left hand may be passed into the vagina till it touch the posterior lip of the cervix, and the sound (held in the right hand) be passed inwards and onwards without the necessity of the handle revolution.) (2) J3;/ sight aiid touch : when the introduc- tion of the sound is difficult {e.g. acute flexion of uterus), or when the gynaecologist is a beginner, it is well to pass the Sims' speculum,