463 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS The first step towards an appreciation of the cerebral relation of mind is a biological one. We must conceive of our brain-stuff as not only the vehicle of all that is forthcoming in human character, but also as preserving more or less active rudiments corresponding to the unrecog- nised memories of all animal and other ancestral experience. The human mind is at once the master and the servant of an organ of whose potencies the sane and orderly person realises only a very small fraction, but an organ which, in dissolution, reveals an infinite store of atavistic associations—" instinctive vestiges," as Professor Hall calls them. Of these, the more distant, the prehistoric, come only slightly if at all to the surface; but insanity teems with reminiscences of a more recent stage—a stage which corresponds to the somewhat rapid transition from uncivilisa- tion into polite society. Of all that history a review were well worthy of our consideration, a revision of the salient points in comparative physiology which denote the several develop- ments of animal consciousness, as one function after another became for the moment the prime activity in the life of the species. However elaborate we may make our study of the histology of the present-day brain, we cannot by that means understand much of its significance, but only its mass and its complexity. It is only by recalling how, in previous forms, so far as we know, the consciousness embraced one function after an- other, and how each was superseded by another, but not entirely lost, that we can appreciate the multitude of important relations which lie buried, and not very deeply, beneath our present conscious level. And as we glance at a few of the most important phases of consciousness in its evolu- tion, we should note all through a few general facts whose importance may become apparent later on. In particular, let us remember that character is stigmatised not only according to the things which the mind attends to, but also by its mode of regarding them. Two minds may embrace the same things in their experience, but their embrace of them may be entirely diverse. Insanity reveals an alteration from the normal consciousness in both respects. In insanity there is always under-attention to some things and over-attention to others. But the mode as well as the range of attention may be insane. Insanity is a failure of the normal personality, whereby the mind is reduced to a lower level of consciousness. And the modes of consciousness which it reveals are vestiges of a previous stage of our evolution. For example, perhaps the most important mode of insane con- sciousness, the fugitive, is one to which we shall often refer. It is a mode of mind which is afraid, has the sense of being hunted or persecuted, is suspicious, unfriendly, and querulous. That is obviously a reversion to a kind of mind which was normal to a stage of evolution in which life as much more dangerous and much less kindly than now. But it is mei'ely a sample of many such vestiges. Our study resolves itself into an account of the human mind as the physician ought to know it, whether in health or in disease. To him, mind is an evolution which has come by verj'' slow and gradual stages, never making a sudden step. There is no point where we can say, Here is mind for the first time. For such a development, including, as it does, an organic as well as a spiritual evolution, we must presume, as Weismann has taught us fully to understand, that nervous tissue, capable of indefinite multipli- cation, carried with it from the first all the possi- bilities which it has since achieved; and that it is now potent for whatever it will achieve for all time. The modifications which it undergoes in each individual, and which are characteristic of the species, are not lost as evolution proceeds, but only become subimposed. All previous modifications are preserved—those which are vital as still active differentiations, but many of them as vestiges or rudiments. These func- tions necessary to organic well-being are developed in embryo and are mature long before the intelli- gent fimctions. Intelligence does not take note of them as subjective, does not embrace them within its experience in adult life, though we may conjecture that infant consciousness is aware of them. The embryo, or at least the infant, has perhaps sensibilities which become lost as others are acquired. In particular, it would seem likely that visceral sensibilities exist at an early stage and are lost when the special sezises become actively engaged, just as we know infants have movements which they subse- quently lose. Be that as it may, it is an obvious fact that, as character develops, the mind undergoes a great integration, carries forward only a few things in life and drops all the rest. And the important thing for our present purpose is to remember that, though nine-tenths of experience drop off the mind and leave no trace in it, it is not so with the brain- cortex. Facts drop into the brain, not off it. Consciousness in adult life is habitually frag- mentary ; even vivid experiences are attended to only for a time ; people are aware of only one thing at a given moment. The mind, therefore, can only be understood as grasping one small bit after another of a vast range of possible things which are for the most part unconscious. Personality grows as the individual conceives of himself as the same person in a series of ever- increasing relations; it is strong according as some definite purpose dominates all experience; and cerebral differentiations corresponding to such integration must be presumed with special reference to inhibition. Personality then is as much an affair of brains as of the intelligence ; and its disturbance in insanity is to be regarded as the exhaustion of those nervous mechanisms which represent purpose and purposive conduct