INTESTINES, DISEASES OF 528 finds most favour, and may be given alone or in combination with opium, as the mistura cretse cum opio with kino or catechu added. Chalk acts by saponifying the acid fats, and thus re- moves acid irritants, at the same time coating the inflamed mucous membrane with a protec- tive and soothing covering in a similar manner to the heavy insoluble bismuth salts (bismuthi trisnit. grs. x., pulv. ipecac, co. grs. v. 4 ter hor.) which are also very useful remedies. If colicky pains are severe, nothing gives such speedy and satisfactory relief as a hypodermic injection of morphia, and with this may be combined the application of warmth in the form of fomenta- tions covered by a waterproof, or a hot poultice over flannel on the abdomen, either to be changed frequently. If the case under consideration is one of diarrhoea from eating spoilt food or decomposing meat, a dose of castor oil (gj.) should be ad- ministered ; but if any of the irritating meal remains in the stomach, it should first be ejected by an emetic. Agonising colic and muscular cramp demand a hypodermic injection of morphia, and a stimulant is required to combat the reflex cardiac failure and the depressing action of the ptomaine on the nervous system. In the case of mushroom-poisoning the antidote to the active principle, muscarine, is belladonna or atropine, and this should be given in 10 or 15 mm. doses of the tinct. belladonnte, or one- hundredth of a grain of atropine every hour until dryness of the mouth and pupillary dilata- tion are detected. In enteritis, the result of arsenical poisoning, if there is reason to believe that the arsenic has not already been absorbed, or in other words if the case is seen early, ferric hydrate should at once be freely given; but if the case is seen late, the enteritis resulting can only be treated on general principles. Ferric hydrate can be readily prepared by the addition of liquor ammon. fort, to either the tr. or liquor ferri perchlor., care being taken that excess of ammonia is not present before drinking. The important part played by micro-organisms in many cases of enteritis has given rise to a useful method of treatment which consists, after the initial administration of a purgative, in the administration of one or other of a class of drugs known as intestinal antiseptics, and of frequent alteration in the diet. By means of the drug we hope to inhibit the growth of the pathogenic bacteria, and by alteration of the diet to starve the bacteria by depriving them of the pabulum on which they feed and multiply. The most useful intestinal antiseptics are the preparations of mercury, in the form of either liquor hydrarg. perchlor., hydrarg. cum cretse, or calomel. Of these, liquor hydrarg. perchlor. is by many regarded as the best. Calomel, in spite of evidence that it diminishes bacterial putrefaction in the intestine, as shown by the increased amount of bile pigment in the fjeces. which has not been converted into urobilin in the large intestine, and by the diminution of aromatic sulphates in the urine, has the draw- back that it acts as a purgative partly by increasing the flow of bile, and also by being -an irritant, but it is often apparently useful. The salicylic acid group is excellent, and probably salol is preferable to salicylic acid or beta naphthol or salicylate of bismuth. Mercury may be advantageously combined with bismuth and soda, as in the following for an adult:— E/ Liquor hydrarg. perchlor. ni^xx.; sodse bicarb, bismuthi subnit. aa, grs. v.; mucila- ginis, q.s.; aqua anethi, gss. Ft. mist. Or, if salol is preferred, it may be given to an adult in doses of 10 to 15 grains, alone, or with carbonate or salicylate of bismuth. Salol has this great advantage in enteritis, that it passes through the stomach unchanged and breaks up in the intestine into salicylic acid and phenol. Resorcin in doses of 2 to 5 grs. is sometimes used in combination with salicylate of bismuth. With regard to the second part of this method of treatment, viz. frequent alteration of diet, if the child is bottle-fed, ordinary milk should at once be stopped and recourse had to sterile milk. If this is unsatisfactory, milk should be replaced by animal broths, such as beef or veal extracts prepared at home, or given in the form of Liebig's extract, or similar commercial pre- parations, with a carbohydrate, e.g. ground rice. A very useful form of beef tea is prepared by the cold method. This is prepared by adding 10 drops of dilute hydrochloric acid to half a pound of finely minced beef and half a pint of cold water, which are allowed to stand for an hour and are then strained through muslin. The desired quantity is then placed in a cup and warmed (not boiled) until the colour changes to the brown of ordinary beef tea. These alterna- tions of diet should, in the event of the con- tinuation of symptoms, not last longer than twenty-four hours, when further changes should be made to milk again, milk whey mixed with white of egg and cream, etc. Chronic or Secondary/ Catarrh—Etiology.— (1) Acute primary catarrh may become chronic, especially in old and feeble subjects; (2) exten- sion of inflammation from structures adjacent to the intestine ; (3) from tuberculous or chronic ulceration of the gut {vide "Ulcers of the In- testine "); (4) the result of portal obstruction, hepatic or cardiac; and (5) in pytemia, etc. Morbid Anatomy. — The intestinal mucous membrane becomes thickened, fibrous, eroded, and studded with ulcers. The blood-vessels are congested ; the muscular coat is generally, to some extent at least, hypertrophied, and later is replaced by fibrous tissue. The glands are destroyed, their ducts being in the first place blocked, and retention cysts form before their