HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCAEDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 87 The brain and its membranes are also in- volved in the venous distension, and this ex- plains many of the troublesome cerebral mani- festations met with in cardiac cases. Local anaeviia occasionally occurs as a seem- ing consequence, or, at least, accompaniment of cardiac disease. In malignant endocarditis general ansemia of rapid production may be very marked. Mitral stenosis is sometimes found in young chlorotic females. Cardiac dilatation is by no means exceptional in simple anaemia. A fatty and anajmic heart is sometimes the only explanation of a fatal syncope. Dropsy forms one of the most important con- sequences of cardiac failure. Serous transu- dation may occur into the subcutaneous tissues constituting anasarca, into the texture of organs as in pulmonary oedema, or into serous cavities forming hydrothorax, hydroperitoneum, and ascites. Several factors play a part in its pro- duction. Mechanical obstruction to the return of venous blood, alteration in the walls of the blood - channels, depraved conditions of the blood and derangement of the lymphatic circulation, may all be of importance. The first, however, forms the most evident explana- tion. Impediment to the return of venous blood is, as already indicated, the most constant and striking feature in cardiac failure. Gen- erally speaking, when dropsy occurs it is more or less proportional to the degree of venous engorgement. This, however, is not always so. In many cases very advanced degrees of cardiac disease may be attained without any sign of di-opsy, although it may appear almost suddenly shortly before the end. Hence, although there is some evidence in favour of the contention that no direct relationship exists between the amount of heart disease and dropsy, it must be insisted upon that usually dropsy develops with the failure of the vigour of the cardiac muscle, and in most instances is essentially proportional to and progresses with the muscular embarrass- ment. It will be shown elsewhere how readily a heart in imstable equilibrium may be influenced by comparatively trifling agencies, and the adjust- ments of compensation which depend on mus- cular adaptiveness may be suddenly upset, so allowing of the rapid development of dropsy. A readjustment may be followed by as rapid a disappearance of the transuded fluid. The importance of such predisposing influences as a severe accident, mental shock, acute disease, and the like, cannot be over-estimated in clinical work. Mechanical conditions, which in health would have no appreciable influence, may in cai'diac derangement prove sufficient to deter- mine the occurrence and regulate the distribu- tion of serous transudation. The common occurrence of oedema of the feet and legs in early or slight forms of cardiac asthenia is sufficient proof of this. But a merely mechanical view is far too limited to explain all the causation of dropsy in cardiac disease. Disturbance of the nervous mechanism, altered nutrition of the walls of vessels, impoverished conditions of blood, will lead to transudation, and in some heart affec- tions there is reason to believe that some dis- tinct derangement of a peripheral mechanism may be the true explanation. It is only by admitting such a view that one can explain the curious localisation of oedema—as, for example, that over the sternum and sacrum, or even into the scalp, such as is by no means exceptional in cases of alcoholic muscle failure. Comparatively little, however, is known as to the local conditions making for an increased permeability in cardiac conditions. In long- continued states of vascular derangement nutri- tional changes must of necessity occur in the vessel walls, and probably do much to maintain tendencies to transudation. It must also be remembered that in most cases of cardiac failure there are influences greatly impairing the normal lymphatic circula- tion, since the integrity of the latter is neces- sarily in great part dependent on the perfect adaptability of arterial and venous blood-pres- sure. It must also be admitted that anaemia may be a factor in the subjects of ordinary valvular heart disease, so to speak, promoting oedema. The dropsical eff'usion is usually a transparent yellow or yellowish gi-een fluid, with few or no cellular elements, showing no tendency to spon- taneous coagulation, of low specific gravity and containing but little albumin or other solids. The fluid, however, probably varies in character, as would seem to be sufficiently shown by the free running or otherwise through a Southey's trochar. CEdema of the lungs is of special importance in heart disease. Usually it develops in organs the nutrition of which has been long impaired. Occasionally it arises with startling rapidity. The lungs are large and bulky, much increased in size and weight, pale, and pit on pressure. On section clear, frothy, serous fluid escapes, often in enoi'mous quantities. Thrombosis, Ernholisin, and Infarction. — Thrombosis may occur as a consequence of endocarditis and morbid changes in the lining of the heart and vessels. It is common in dila- tation of the cardiac cavities, and also arises secondary to embolic obstruction. Reference has already been made to the occurrence of thrombosis in the cardiac cavities and coronary vessels. Local clotting also sometimes occurs in heart cases in the peripheral vessels when the propulsive force of the organ has suft'ered much diminution. Occasionally local oedema of an extremity, developing as a terminal condition, is found to have been due to a thrombus. Local coagulation may affect either the arteries or the