HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF 73 belief {Gewebelehre, p. 858) that nerves which retain their medulla in the visceral periphery are afferent and therefore sensory, as on their way from the cord or medulla they pass through or over intervening ganglion without being broken up by them. On the visceral distri- bution of efferent branches of both the vagal and sympathetic series ganglion cells occur, and as the function of these two streams differs, their ganglion cells must remain essentially as distinct as the nerves themselves, however agglomerated. The final distribution of the nerves to the visceral muscle is by fine nucle- ated plexuses, which end upon muscle cells both cardiac and vascular. In the opinion of the majority of present-day histologists they do this by so-called free ends, the existence of which a minority still disputes or considers doubtful. Such an arrangement, however, would seem to be necessary to the exercise of th^ separate functions of the different nerves. The muscle cell appears to be the term common to both, and the probable medium of interchange between them, by processes too little known for fruitful discussion at present. By means of this mechanism the regulated action and nervous nutrition or trophation (to coin a convenient but not very euphonious term) of the heart is secured. Although the embry- onic heart has a rhythmical action before it is supplied either with organised vessels or with nerves, the conditions of sustained rhythmicality seem to require an integrity of all three factors —the muscle cell, the blood which bathes it, and the nerves which regulate it, and in some obscure way exercise a trophic influence upon it. By means of the nervous system the heart may be retarded or even arrested in action, that is, inhibited ; quickened in rate and in force or augmented ; and weakened, or depressed. The channel for inhibition, depression, and tropha- tion is the vagus ; for augmentation the sympa- thetic spinal nei'ves. The spinal accessory fibres already mentioned are now regarded as the in- hibitory fibres, and are efferent in action towards the organ. The depressor fibres exercise their influence from the heart by way of both ganglia on the vagus at the vaso-motor centres in the medulla, whence they induce a fall in the peri- pheral blood-pressure. They are therefore affer- ent or sensory in character. The activity of trophic nerves, of which we are justified in assuming the existence, is prob- ably efferent. Sensory and motor fibres like- wise exist in the sympathetic spinal nerves and constitute the peripheral mechanism of augmen- tation. They are, indeed, believed by some to be the chief seat of cardiac sensibility, and the character and distribution of radiated pain in sensory disorders of the heart support this view. The general effect of retardation of the heart's action is regarded as conservative of energy or anabolic; that of acceleration or augmentation as expending energy and leading to exhaustion or catabolism. It has been main- tained by some that the existence of efferent ganglia on the trunks of visceral nerves, and the interposition of the sympathetic system between the cerebro - spinal centres and the A'iscera, may be the cause of the differences between somatic and splanchnic nervous action, whether affecting the heart or other involuntary organs. The whole subject is, however, far from clear at present, but a good deal has been done to elucidate it during the last ten years or so. Like the unification of the heart itself, the unity of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic systems has been secured by a process of fusion, for there is good CAidence to show that in their essence they are embryologically distinct, and spring from different layers of the germ, as has been stated at the commencement of this article. Although, finally, the sympathetic system is now considered to be wholly or almost wholly dominated in function by its cerebro - spinal connection, the question of a retention by it of a measure of efferent autonomy cannot yet be regarded as settled. Heart, Affections of Myocar- dium and Endocardium. General Introduction-— A. General Pathology. I. Etiology— Exciting Causes . . . .74 Predisposing Influences . . 76 II. Morbid Processes .... 79 Maldevelopment Ancemia Hypercemia Haemorrhage Dropsy, Embolism, Infarction Inflammation Atrophy Hypertrophy Degenerations and Infiltrations JVecrosis and Tumours III. Secondary Conditions ... 85 Passive Venous Congestion Ancemia, Dropsy Thrombosis, Embolism, etc. HcBmorrhages, etc. B. Special Pathology. I. Affections of Endocardium— Simi^le Endocarditis . . .90 Malignant Endocarditis . . 91 II. Valvular Affections ... 94 III. Affections of Myocardiuji . .102 Symptomatology. Dyspnoea . . . . .104 Dropsy . . . . .105 Enlargement of Liver . . .106 Palpitation, Pain . . .107 Pulmoncury Conditions . . .107