INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 547 Spontaneous elimination is usually attended by foul stools containing some blood and masses or shreds of gangrenous intestine, and is followed by diarrhoea. It can only end in cure when the ensheathing and entering layers of gut are firmly glued together by adhesions. The most common cause of a fatal termination is perforation at the neck of the intussusception, and from imperfect union by adhesion of the opposed surfaces. This latter leads to a general peri- tonitis, or to local peritonitis with abscess, and though the illness in the latter case is usually more prolonged, the iiltimate result is the same. Other patients die because the surface at which separation has occurred does not heal, and remaining ulcerated cavises diarrhoea, or the ulcer eventually perforates, or causes fatal hfemorrhage from the opening of a mesenteric vessel, which may also occur during the separa- tion of the dead part from the living, or the ulcer produces the different forms of septic disease by absorption of septic products from the raw surface, or as a remote result stricture of the gut may follow the cicatrisation of the ulcer. Volvulus of the Sigmoid Flexure.—The rapidity with which distension of the bowel occurs and adhesions follow at its neck would make it very unlikely that spontaneous recovery would occur in this condition. Death has occurred a few hours after the onset of symptoms, apparently from shock. Septic absorption from the damaged intestine is the most frequent cause of death, and next to this comes peritonitis. Sudden death from heart failure is even more common in this form of intestinal obstruction than in others, and death from one or other of these causes is almost inevitable during the first week unless the condition can be remedied by operation. Gall-stones.—About 50 per cent of cases with definite obstruction symptoms due to this cause die during the first ten days. The causes of death are chiefly changes in the intestine above the obstruction leading to septic absorption and peritonitis. Patients who do recover have to pass through a more or less severe illness, followed by evacuation of the gall-stone. The prognosis of all acute cases of intestinal obstruction taken together is probably a recovery rate of about 15 per cent. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction Stricture of the Small Intestine.—In simple stricture the symptoms may be of very long- standing—several years, in cases where great attention has been paid to details in matter of diet, and to the regulation of the evacuations. Such a chronic course is only made possible by compensatory hypertrophy of the intestinal walls above the obstruction. In some instances the intestinal walls may be as thick and as i strong as those of the stomach. In one of my cases the small bowel reached the size of an ordinary forearm, and served as a re- ceptacle for immense quantities of semi-digested food. In cases of malignant stricture aiiecting the small intestine, it is rare for any relief to be possible except through palliative operation. Spontaneous relief in both simple and malignant cases may occur from ulceration and abscess above the obstruction, if the abscess opens externally and forms a fsecal fistula; it may also, though more rarely, occur from the formation of an anastomosis between the intestine above the stricture and that below it by a fortunate combination of ulceration, adhesion, and perforation. Except for these extraordinary and rare chances the course of intestinal stricture is to a fatal termination. Death is generally brought about by the super- vention of an acute attack produced by some object, such as a solid fsecal mass, or a grape- skin or fish-bone, or a cherry-stone, completely obstructing the small lumen of the strictured part of the bowel, or by a kink at the narrow portion. It may also result from malnutrition, caused by interference with the due performance of the digestive and absorptive functions, or it may be brought about by peritonitis, usually due to perforation. Stricture of the colon alivays ends in death, but life may be considerably prolonged by a suitable diet and laxative medicines. Many cases have been recorded in which persons with stricture of the colon lived for several weeks without any intestinal evacuation. The average duration of symptoms is under one year. The average duration of life in cancer of the colon is fifteen months, allowing that palliative operation (colotomy) has been performed for the relief of the obstruction. The causes of death are the supervention of an acute attack, general peritonitis due to ulceration with perforation above the stricture, or local peritonitis followed by abscess and septicEEmia, or gangrene of the stricture from blocking of its vessels of supply by growth in the mesentery. Gangrene causes perforation, and death is brought about by peritonitis. Spontaneous relief may follow ulceration and the formation of an artificial anus above the strictured part. This may open externally or into the bladder, or into the vagina of the female. In a more rare case upon which I operated for obstruction due to malignant stricture of the sigmoid, gangrene of the entire caecum and the greater part of the ascending- colon from extreme distension was found on opening the abdomen, and the patient was relieved for some weeks by the natural colotomy resulting from the separation of his gangrenous cajcum and ascending colon. Relief may also follow the formation of a natural anastomosis of