HEMOGLOBINURIA 34 Mannaberg and Donath have recently confirmed his observation, that the red corpuscles of these patients are abnormally sensitive to mechanical influences, such as shaking the blood in a tube, or the jarring of a centrifuge which does not run smoothly. Maimaberg and Donath have further shown that they are broken up with unusual readiness imder the influence of carbon dioxide. Chvostek also found that in repeating the classical experiment of Ehrlich, viz. placing an elastic ligature upon the patient's finger and immersing it in ice-cold water, the cooling was not necessary for the production of local haemo- globina3mia, but that the simple arrest of the circulation leads to this result. Following Murri, he looks upon the vascular spasm as plajang an equally important part with the abnormal blood condition, the presence of both factors being necessary for the production of the attack. Such a theory will explain very well the relationship of Raynaud's disease to paroxysmal hjemoglobinuria, the cases in which the former is present without htemoglobintiria being those in which the second factor, viz. the undue liability of ha3molysis, is absent. In support of his view that the vaso-motor disturb- ances, aided by the resultant presence of carbon dioxide in excess, brings about the destruction of the abnormally frail blood corpuscles, Chvostek adduces the fact that he was able to cut short the attacks by the administration of amyl nitrite at the earliest stage. Moreover, he found that in horses, whose blood corpuscles appear to be less stable than those of other animals, he was able to bring about a degree of haemoglobinsemia by the induction of vascular spasm by electrical stimulation of the upper portion of the cervical cord. Against this must be set the failure of Mannaberg and Donath to cut short the attacks by amyl nitrite in their case, and these authors object to Chvostek's theory that it is not at all evident in what way vascular spasm can place the blood under conditions at all comparable to those present in the shaking experiments, nor do they think that the facts can be more satisfactorily explained by a theory based upon their results with carbon dioxide, venosity of the blood being held wholly responsible for the haemolysis. The experiment with the ligature of a finger shows that local haemolysis may take place in such cases in the peripheral circulation, and the seat of the blood destruction during the paroxysm has been variously located, several observers regarding the renal circulation as the most likely locality. Against this latter view is the presence of free haemoglobin in the serum generally, in spite of its abundant excretion in the urine. Chvostek's observa- tions led him to the opinion that only a small proportion of the red corpuscles are unduly subject to disintegration under mechanical influences, and if this be so, it points to the tendency to break up being inherent in the corpuscles themselves rather than dependent upon any abnormality of the medium in which they are suspended. Seeing that so many poisons possess haemolytic powers, and are capable of causing haemoglo- binuria, the possibility suggests itself that such a toxic substance may be present in the blood of these patients in amounts too small for the direct manifestation of its haemolytic action under ordinary conditions, but which, never- theless, is able to bring about blood destruction when aided by the other conditions which excite an attack. However, such an hypothesis receives no countenance from some remarkable observa- tions of Mannaberg and Donath, who found that whereas the serum of blood obtained from a patient during an interval, and immediately centrifugalised, caused no haemolysis when added to healthy blood, the serum of an attack, which was slightly coloured by haemoglobin, became more deeply coloured, and showed the absorp- tion bands more clearly, after it had been added to healthy blood and again separated. A similar haemolytic action was exercised by serum in which haemolysis had been mechanically brought about. The fact that hsemoglobinuria is an occasional symptom of malarial fever, and the part which ague appears to play as a predisposing cause in some cases of paroxysmal haemoglobinuria, suggest a community of origin, and there are features in the attacks which lend colour to this hypothesis; but, on the other hand, the paroxysms of haemoglobinuria are in no sense periodic, and their recurrence is strictly depen- dent upon exposure to the exciting cause. The more recent observers are disposed to agree with Murri in regarding syphilis as a far more important predisposing cause, and a history of malaria is comparatively seldom to be obtained in cases met with in this country. The scanty number of recorded post-mortem examinations of the subjects of paroxysmal haemoglobinuria throws practically no fresh light upon the problem of its pathology, the changes met with being similar to those seen in other conditions accompanied by haemolysis and haemo- globinuria. In some cases interstitial changes have been observed in the kidneys, which possibly have been results of the imusual work which these organs are at intervals called upon to perform. That this is not entirely without effect upon the kidneys is suggested by the presence of small quantities of serum albumin, and occasionally of a few red corpuscles in the urine during the attacks. It will be evident, then, that in spite of the large amount of careful investigation which has been directed upon its study the pathology of paroxysmal haemoglobinuria is still to a large