361 IMMUNITY serum whose immunising value is 10,000" signifies that an amount of serum equal in weight to xo^oo^^ of the weight of a guinea- pig suffices to protect the animal completely against ten times the lethal dose of toxin. In the French method the body-weight of the animal is accordingly taken into account, and it is therefore not essential to use guinea-pigs of 250 to 300 grammes weight. Madsen, how- ever, comparing the two methods, found that the German was the simpler and cheaper one. Lai'ge numbers of immunising units (600-1500) are necessary when employing the curative serum in man. After diphtheria curative serum had become an article of commerce, it was found necessary in Germany to insist on a minimum number of immunisation units in order to pro- tect the public from inferior preparations. The minimum first demanded was that 1 cc. of diphtheria curative serum should contain at least 100 units. Since 20th February 1895 the preparation of serum has been under State control, under which the serum is standardised, is proved to be free of deleterious substances, and the correct amount of antiseptic—carbolic acid—necessary for the proper preservation of the serum is added. Ehrlich, the head of this serum-testing estab- lishment, which is in connection with the K. preussischen Institut f ur experimentelle Therapie at Frankfurt-a.-M., has lately introduced a new and still more exact method of standardising serum. Diphtheria toxin and antitoxin in soluble form being somewhat variable, Ehrlich proceeds from an antitoxin dried by evapora- tion of the serum. This antitoxin is kept at the Frankfurt Institute in specially-constructed vacuum tubes, which each contain 2 grammes ■of dry antitoxin of 1700 units. Every two or three months one of these tubes is cautiously opened and its contents dissolved in 200 cc. of a fluid consisting of 10 per cent saline solution and glycerine. A serum seventeen times normal is thus obtained, and when diluted seventeen times 1 cc. contains exactly one imit. By the aid of this normal antitoxin a normal solution of toxin is then prepared by means of which again a given serum is standardised. It is by this method that diphtheria serum is now officially tested. The durability of the serum is also to some extent guaranteed by the fact that as each serum is tested a number of bottles are withheld, and their activity tested from time to time, and if it be found to diminish, all the bottles containing this serum, i.e. having the same number on them, which are still on the market are called in. In Germany at the present time diphtheria curative serum is prepared in four different places, but it has to conform to official tests before it can be sold. More serum is prepared at Hochst-a.-M. than anywhere else, and four different forms are made at Hochst. No. 0 contains 0*8 cc. of 250 times normal serum = 200 immunising units. An immunis- ing dose. No. 1 contains 2'4 cc. of 250 times normal serum =600 units. A single curative dose for cases in which treatment can be commenced on the first appearance of symptoms. No. 2 contains 4 cc. of 250 times normal serum = 1000 units. A double curative dose, sufficient for most cases of diphtheria when treatment begins not later than the commence- ment of the third day. No. 3 contains 6 cc. of 250 times normal serum = 1500 units. A triple curative dose for very severe and advanced cases. The works at Hochst also manufacture a serum twice as strong as the preceding, i.e. 500 times normal. It too is obtainable in four forms, which have each, therefore, twice as many units as the preceding preparations. The curative serum keeps very well, as a rule, for at least one year, if it be kept in a cool place and protected from light and frost. Still more durable than the fluid preparation is the dry one prepared at the works at Hochst-a.-M. by careful evaporation, and which is placed on the market under State control. It is a pure evaporated serum to which no antiseptic or other substance has been added. The prepara- tion is in the form of fine yellowish scales or a yellowish-white powder, and before being used must be dissolved in ten parts of distilled water, which takes some time. To meet official require- ments 1 gramme of the dry preparation must contain at least 5000 units. The standardisation of tetanus curative serum is essentially the same as in the case of diph- theria. Behring (and also Knorr) employed a normal tetanus antitoxin (Tet. AN), which must again be standardised by means of a tetanus toxin the nature of which is constant, and such a toxin can only be obtained by the addition of ammonium sulphate and the drying of the pre- cipitate so obtained (Buchner). For standardisa- tion in the Institut f. experimentelle Therapie at Frankfurt-a.-M. there is now used, not a dry toxin, but a ten times normal serum, which has been evaporated to dryness, for this preparation remains unchanged for years if attention be paid to the conditions under which it is kept, as above described. All tetanus serum made in Germany is subjected to official tests, as is diphtheria serum. Tetanus serimi is prepared in Germany at the works at Hdchst-a.-M. ; the serum was formerly prepared both in fluid and solid form, but now only in the former. Each bottle contains 25 cc. of ten times Tet. AN, equal to 250 antitoxic units, suited for treating men and animals suffering from tetanus. Tetanus serum, which is protected from bacteria by the addition of 0*25 per cent metakresol, can be pre- served for a long time, at least one year, if kept in a cool, dark place and preserved from frost.