HAND 51 the condition is dealt with elsewhere. (See Ganglion.) The Bones of the hand may be affected by any of the ordinary bone diseases, such as peri- ostitis, osteomyelitis, necrosis, or tuberculosis. Mention may, however, be made of dactylitis, which mainly occurs in the form of tuberculous disease of the phalanges in children, less often as a gummatous periostitis in syphilitic patients. The diiferential diagnosis of these two forms of dactylitis rarely presents much difficulty. Tumours of the hand. The most important are the chondromata, cartilaginous tumours of benign nature. They are firm, rounded, often multiple, and may produce great deformity and uselessness of the hand. Handwriting'. See General Paralysis {Symjjtoms, Handivriting); Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms ; Mirror-Writing. Hanging'. >S'ee Asphyxia {Causes); Medi- cine, Forensic {Death from Hanging). Ha.ngna.ii.—A hangnail or agnail is a piece of epidermis attached by one end to a point near the border of the nail. Han nay's IVIetliocl.—A plan of pre- venhing plumbism among white lead workers ; " sulphate of lead is prepared from the sulphide, which is volatilised and oxidised in a furnace, and the vapours are passed through a spray con- denser." (Lewis and Balfour.) Hanot'S Disease. — Hypertrophic hepatic cirrhosis with chronic jaundice. See Liver, Diseases op {Biliary Cirrhosis, Hyper- trophic). Hansen's Bacillus. See Leprosy {Pathology of Lej)ra Tuherosa). Hapalonychia.—Softness of the nails due to defective comification (Gr. txTraAos, tender, and ovv^, a nail). Haphalgesia.—A sensory condition in which a simple touch causes intense pain (Gr. a(^7j, touching, and aAyvjo-is, sense of pain). See Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Dysesthesia). Haphephobia. — The morbid fear or dread of being touched. HapIO-.—In compound words haplo- (Gr. aTrAoo?, onefold or single) means simple, e.g. haploacne, acne simple, haplomelasma, simple melasma, haplophyma, a simple tumour, and haplotomia, a simple incision. H apt ins.—Receptors. See Immunity. Haptophore Group.—The combining portion (Gr. aTrrw, I seize) of a toxin, that part which unites in constant proportions with the antitoxin; the other portion, which exerts the poisonous action, is the toxophore group {Ehrlich). See Immunity. Hardness of Water. See Water {Hard, Methods of Softening). Hard Soap.—Sapo durus ; sodium oleate, containing 30 per cent of water. See Sapo. Hare-Lip. See Palate {Malformations of Mouth, Hare-Lip) ; see also Cheek, Fissure of ; Hydrocephalus {Complications); Mental Defi- ciency {Abnormalities of Physical Formation). Harlequin Foetus.— The peculiar appearances produced by foetal ichthyosis have suggested this name. See Ichthyosis. Harpoon. — An instrument used for obtaining a fragment of a deep-seated tissue for microscopic examination. Harrison's Groove.—The transverse groove on the chest wall passing outwards from the ensiform cartilage toward the axilla, seen in rickets; it is seen also in cases of chronic tonsil- litis. Harrogate. See Balneology {Great Britain, Sulphur Waters); Mineral Waters {Chalybeate, M2iriated Sulphur) ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Hartley-Krause Operation. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Trigenmial, Treatment, Re- moval of Gasserian Ganglion). Harvest Bug. See Scabies {Other Acari, Leptus Autumnalis); Stinging Insects {Leptus Autumnalis). Harvey's Discovery. See Medicine, History of {Seventeenth Century). Harz Mou ntai ns. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Germany). Haschisch or Hasheesh. See Cannabis Indica ; Toxicology {Indian Hemp). Hassan's Corpuscles. See Physio- logy, Internal Secretions {Thymus); Thymus Gland {Anatomy). Hastings. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). HaustuS. — A draught; a liquid medi- cinal preparation to be taken as a single dose. See Prescribing. Haut Mai.—The fully-developed form of epilepsy ; epilepsia gravior. See Epilepsy. Haversian Canals, Spaces, and System. See Physiology, Tissues {Bone). H ay Ast h m a. See Asthma {Derivation); Hay Fever.