81 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM The cardiac thrombus may be of acute or chronic formation. It is frequently met with in cases of dilated heart, occurring more par- ticularly in the appendices of the auricles, which are commonly found completely obliterated at the autopsy by firm and often laminated clot. Thrombosis also occurs between the trabeculse, and sometimes even at the rounded apex of a dilated ventricle. Thrombosis also constitutes an important process in the formation of extensive vegetations, as occur in such abundance and in so exuberant a form in malignant endocarditis. By slow deposition of fibrin a thrombus firmly fixed to the endocardial wall may extend forward into the auricular or ventricular cavity, and thus give rise to a " cardiac polypus." When formed in the auricle it may project sufficiently to obstruct the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and give rise to symptoms of valvular disease. They have even been seen as ball-like masses detached from the cardiac surface. Thrombosis of the coronary arteries is an extremely important condition, cutting off, as it necessarily does, the nutritional supply to the cardiac muscle. It is usually dependent on changes in the vessel walls, arising as a part of a general arterial sclerosis, or sometimes from local atheroma, arteritis obliterans, or simple senile calcification. Occasionally the thrombus is secondary to embolic obstruction, due to detachment of vegetations from the aortic valve or aorta in malignant endocarditis or aortitis. The endocardium is a birthplace of emboli. It is in the cavities of the heart or on the surfaces of the valves that most of the emboli arise, which presently, we shall have to show, form such important factors in the secondary lesions of cardiac disease. Cardiac infarction results from obstruction of a coronary artery. Should the occlusion or obliteration of the vessel be associated with extravasation of blood, a so-called " red" or " hsemorrhagic infarct" results. It is important to remember that while embolic blocking of the coronary vessels is comparatively rare, obstruc- tion from sclerosis, atheroma, calcification, and thrombosis is common. In the latter conditions the myocardial areas, rendered ansemic, and becoming the seat of simple softening, constitute a " white " infarct or area of cardiomalacia. The red infarct will present a dark red appearance or mottled aspect, varying from brown to yellow. Sometimes the central parts are white or yellowish-white, and the borders red or brown. After a certain amount of absorption or dis- integration of the blood has occurred, the infarcted tissues often assume a yellowish-grey appearance, or in old cases a greyish, translucent, structureless aspect. In some instances the myocardium may present a depressed puckered scar at the seat of the old infarct. Sometimes the softening, resulting from VOL. IV coronary obstruction, may involve one or more of the papillary muscles, rendering them in- effectual as contractile structures. The soften- ing may also involve the overlying endocardium, and extensive clotting will then occur over the affected areas. The whole depth of the myo- cardium may even be involved, and rupture occasioned into the pericardial cavity. The importance of the above processes in the production of fibroid induration of the heart will be referred to later. When the embolus contains pyogenic or- ganisms, septic myocarditis or an acute abscess of the cardiac walls may result. This rupturing into the pericardium will produce acute septic pericarditis, or, extending into the cavities of the heart, give rise to a general pysemia. (7) Inflammation. — It is not our purpose here to discuss the nature of the inflammatory process, or the exact relationship of the lesions found to the etiological factors present. Suffice it for the present to indicate the main outlines of the leading characters of such changes as custom and experiment have recognised as in- flammatory. The essential features of the inflammatory process may be divided into those of an exudative and those of a proliferative character. These differences would appear to depend, first, upon the nature and intensity of the irritant; and, secondly, on the structure, especially as regards vascularity, of the tissue involved. The inflammatory process as it occurs in the heart may be limited to either serous, muscular, or connective tissues, although frequently involving all structures. In studying the phenomena of cardiac inflammation due con- sideration must be given to the anatomical and physiological peculiarities of the affected parts. The exposure of the endocardium to ready infection from irritants in the blood stream ; the non-vascular character of the inner lining of the heart and the greater part of the valves ; 'the dependence of the myocardium on the integrity of the blood-supply ; the liability of the extension of inflammatory processes to the pericardium and other cardiac tissues; and the influence of the movements of the heart, con- stitute factors having important bearings on the inflammatory process. In acute inflammation the exudative factor is usually most marked. The pouring out of coagulable serum, the passage of leucocytes, and the escape of a variable number of red cor- puscles, are the chief of the vascular pheno- mena. At the same time textural changes occur, chiefly of a degenerative character; but in the less acute forms indicating efforts at a reactive process, in which the connective-tissue cells play an important part. Should the in- flammatory process affect pericardium or endo- cardium the products are enabled to escape from a free surface. In the former they collect in 6