HYDROPATHY 279 second attendant simultaneously treating the back. At the end of the bath the patient stands at the extreme end of the room grasping a bar, and a strong pressure douche is played over the body in the direction of the lymph stream, following the course of the lymphatic vessels. A valuable modification, very useful in many cases, is to let the patient lie in a shallow elevated bath, and the attendant giving the massage under the douche, finishing with the final douching as mentioned above. (/) Underwater Douche.—An invaluable aid to treatment, especially that by natural mineral water baths. While the patient is sitting in the bath a pipe with a |-inch nozzle is placed in the bath, and water under pressure at a tem- perature of from 96° to 110° is applied to the affected parts, the force being graduated by keeping a cushion of water between the end of the nozzle and the part douched. Packs.—{a) Hot—general or local. A thick blanket is folded and rolled up in bottle form. Boiling water is poured through the two ends in turn : it is covered with a large hot towel, and as much superfluous moisture as possible wrung out. It is then spread out on the top of two large dry blankets spread on the bed; on a spare one, if the patient is confined to bed. The patient, divested of clothing, is placed on the hot wet blanket and rapidly covered up by this and the dry ones. Hot water tins should be placed outside the blankets and to the feet, and cold water cloths to the head. The opera- tion should be done quickly, so that the wet blanket does not lose heat. Duration, 30 to 60 minutes. {h) Cold.—Two large thick towels are wrung out of tepid or cold water. The patient is laid on one and covered by the other, and a single blanket is lightly placed over all. Every ten or fifteen minutes the upper towel should be replaced by one wrung out of cold water; the lower one may be changed every hour, if required. Duration, from 30 minutes to two hours. (c) Mustard.—Mustard bran is mixed into a thin paste with boiling water. It is spread on nmslin rag and covered by a piece of the same. It is then placed over the afl^ected part and kept on for 10 to 20 minutes, covered by a flannel bandage. Compress: hot or cold.—A piece of thick Turkish towelling is wrung out of hot or cold water and applied to the affected part. It is then covered by flannel, outside which a piece of Mackintosh sheeting is applied. Duration, 20 to 30 minutes. HoT-AiR Applications.—(a) Turkish Bath.— Fully described in article " Balneology," vol. i. p. 349. Temperature, 115° to 200°. Duration, 20 to 60 minutes. {b) The Hot-Air Box.—The patient sits in this with head protruding, the feet being placed in hot water and a cold towel applied to the head. Temperature, 108° to 120". Duration, 8 to 12 minutes. (c) Hot-air bath given in bed, patient covered by wicker cage; lamp out of bed and heat conducted through metal tube. Duration, 15 minutes to two hours or more. {d) Local hot dry air applications :— (1) In box as before described through holes cut for insertion of hands or feet. (2) "Greville" Method.—The limbs placed in cylinders heated by electricity. Tem- perature, 180° to 450°, or as much as can be borne. Duration, 30 to 80 minutes. (3) "Dowsing" Method.—The electric lamp bath with reflectors. Temperatui-e and dviration as above. (4) "Tallerman" Method.—The limb placed in a copper cylinder heated by a large number of gas jets. Temperature, 110° to 250° or more. Duration as above. The whole body as well as individual limbs may be treated by the "Greville" and "Dowsing" methods. Vapour Applications :— (a) Russian Bath.—A chamber heated by steam to a temperature of 110° to 120". Duration, 10 to 20 minutes. (6) Vapour Box Bath.—Temperature, 108° to 120°. Duration, 8 to 15 minutes, (c) Local Vapour Baths. — Hands or feet placed in box through holes cut for purpose. Temperature, 110° to 120°. Duration, 5 to 20 minutes. Sitz-baths.—Patient sits in special bath, the water just covering the groin. The back and shoulders should be covered by a blanket, and the feet should also be wrapped up. May be given hot, tepid, or cold. Duration, 2 to 10 minutes. Hydropathy is of service in both acute and chronic disease. Acute Diseases.—Acute Rheimnatisin.—A hot blanket pack, as before described, is often most useful. May be repeated twice daily if required. Rheumatic Hyperpyrexia.—These cases are so quickly fatal that rapid and energetic methods are called for. The writer is strongly in favour of the immediate use of the cold bath, and believes that in many cases the time wasted in cold sponging or cold packing has determined a fatal issue. Whenever the temperature in acute rheuma- tism touches 105° the patient should be carefully lifted in a sheet by five persons—one at each cornel", the fifth supporting the head. A bath should be placed close to the bed, and should contain from 18 inches to 2 feet of water at 92°. This should be cooled down by the addition of ice or cold water to 72°, and the patient kept in till the temperature falls below 100°. Ice should be applied to the head during the bath.