INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 487 passive elements of the senses, that the " space attributes" of external objects can only be realised by an unwonted effort, and that thereby an excessive sense of the "resistance of the environment" is suggested, " and the apparent energy and freedom of the will restricted." (We may doubt that, seeing that the elementary qualities of things are not known to the adult mind as discrete, but as compounded, and in course of dissolution, the compound mechanism of a given object into which its primal elements have been resolved will be the first to go.) Be that as it may, there can be no doubt of the importance of another form of the muscular element in intelligence—what we may call pro- jective activities. These are not relations of what is commonly recognised as sensory activi- ties, but are on the other side of mind. They are functions of what we know as psycho-motor mechanisms, and might be described as aspects of the mind in the act of moving. These are not only muscular movements, but mental movements as well—the forward activities of the intelligence such as occur in reasoning, deciding, choosing, planning. For much more of the mental cerebrum is psycho-motor than merely that part of it which contains the images of definite movements. The idea, the intention, the mental picture of any definite movement which we may project, is well down on the way to actual motor functions. But many of the more central processes are of this projective nature. For example, most people think about things, not by making use of mechanisms which represent conceptions of the things themselves, but of those which represent their names. And names are things which we speak or write, or which our eyes pick up from the printed page, or which we prick our mind's ear to listen to— all of them muscular elements. Many other mental processes we can describe in terms borrowed from the analogy of gross movements, and which suggest their projective nature. The understanding " grasps" things (Bevan Lewis) and "holds" them; we re-"collect" things as the attention casts about to " pick up " what is wanted ; we " pursue " a subject, " follow " or "take up" a line of thought; our sympathies " embrace " things and people ; the imagination "reaches out" to "touch" new things; we "hold fast" to convictions; etc. etc. And we speak of a "standpoint" or "point of view" where the main self, as it were, remains while the projective activities go on around it. Above all, personality, as was said, is determined by what a man conceives of himself as saying and doing—the things which he consciously pro- jects. All these then, and others, are the psycho-motor activities, the muscular elements, which fail in melancholia, and whose failure determines the abeyance of outward conscious- ness. In stupor the psycho-motor loss is at its greatest, and the systematic course of the dis- order is directly outward or downwards towards the muscles. Stupor is pre-eminently a psycho- motor paralysis involving even the mechanisms of definite movements of which I have spoken. The patient cannot reason, cannot decide, can- not plan, cannot arrange in his mind to do any- thing, nor agree within himself as to what is best to be done, or, at least, he gives no evi- dence of such mental movements, for, as we know him by actual observation, he is simply a person who cannot speak, cannot use his hands, cannot walk, can hardly stand, because, appar- ently, he cannot conceive of these movements. And by and by if the disease progresses, im- pairments on a still lower level will occur, and the patient becomes muscularly impotent, paretic, and atrophic. By its nature a patient in stupor is prevented from revealing to us the mental content. He cannot express what he feels or thinks, or only in the most laboured fashion. This point must be insisted upon because some observers make very definite statements as to the actual con- dition of the stuporose mind, some of which are not verifiable. It has long been the custom, for instance, to regard stupor as a condition in which sensation is blunted. That may be so, but all that we can really say is that the patient does not react to the stimuli applied. And, from some necessarily rough experiments, I am disposed to think that, at least in some cases, there is not any gross loss of common sensation. Further, we cannot always take the subsequent version of the patient as descriptive of his con- tent during the attack. We have no proof that memory is active during stupor. And yet we can infer a good deal with comparative assur- ance. We can confidently affirm, for example, that the stuporose state is essentially painful; we rarely see so pathetic an exhibition of pro- found distress as some convalescent stupors reveal. Both of the accepted conditions of pain are associated in stupor—a demand for response from enervated mechanisms, and pent - up activity in mechanisms not sufficiently used. Yet not in every case can the distress be observed, for even the gymnastic of pain may be lost, and the facial expression and the atti- tudes be those of almost pure anergia. The disease is to a large extent systematised in the highest motor mechanisms. It has no gymnastic in the pi'oper sense, no characteristic muscular poses. The obvious thing in stuporose muscles is their absence of pose. The face, trunk, and limbs are expressionless and toneless. Simple Anergic Stupor.—In this condition the patient can only be described in negative terms. It is one of the few insanities in which the obvious impairments of personality probably correspond to the actual disease. There is a profound disturbance of outward relations. The I patient may, for all we know, feel an interest in