317 HYSTERIA dyspnoea, retching, and hiccough. This is a real gastric attack, sometimes so violent as to closely simulate a gastric crisis in locomotor ataxia. When there is gastric atony the sensory disorders are slight, food is vomited some time after ingestion, and the patient suffers from a feeling of repletion in the stomach. Hsemate- mesis sometimes appears, and when accompanied by pain may be attributed to ulceration of the stomach. This symptom is not uncommon in hysteria, and is called hmmorrhagie pituite hysUrique. Mathew and Milian have described the rejection from the mouth of a certain quantity of bloody fluid (generally in the morning), red and acid like currant juice, and composed of ten parts saliva to one part blood. The appetite is perverted, sometimes ravenous, more often anorexied. Anorexia is the name given to the systematic refusal of food, and in some cases it is a grave and most troublesome symptom. The patient refuses to eat either from caprice or disgust with life, or from other cause which the patient cannot define. Anorexia is usually total, but it may be partial and refer only to certain foods. It is sometimes variable, transitory, and slight, and at other times just the opposite, and is then accompanied by other symptoms, the chief of which is a slight degree of mental excitement. Later, a state of debility follows, the patient keeps his bed in a half comatose state, the muscles of the neck are paralysed, the extremities are flaccid and cold, he becomes emaciated to a skeleton. It has long been matter of belief that hysterical patients can live without eating, but this is erroneous. The state of the digestive secretion of hysterical patients is variable, the gastric juice being sometimes normal, sometimes weakened in its digestive action. {See. article " Neurasthenia.") The intestinal phenomena are, as a rule, less noticeable than the gastric phenomena. Con- stipation is the rule, but sometimes attacks of paroxysmal diarrhoea coincide with the vomiting. A mucous enteritis may be met with in these patients; eructations and flatulence may be perpetual, and almost rhythmical. Tympanites is specially important from its frequent occur- rence and its often mistaken diagnosis. When pronounced, the abdomen is swollen, painful on palpation, and percussion gives a tympanitic sound, the breathing is laboured, food is vomited, and the patient may present the appearance of tuberculous peritonitis. In the paroxysmal form the aspect is that of acute peritonitis, the visage is drawn, the vomitings are persistent, constipa- tion is obstinate, and there is a good deal of fever; this is hysterical pseudo-peritonitis. At other times the hysterical phenomena simulate fsecal vomiting. Tympanites may be local, and give rise to small tumours, and is not in- frequently the cause of an erroneous diagnosis of ovarian, gastric, intestinal, or hepatic tumours. Tympanites also gives rise to pseudocyesis, specially in those women who crave for children, or those who dread having them. An examina- tion under chloroform alone can solve the question. Intestinal hysteria occasionally takes the form of appendicitis, the spurious appendicitis of Brissaud ; rectal spasms may simulate stricture of the rectum. Before passing from the digestive disorders we must mention false hepatic colic of hysterical origin. By some writers jaundice is said to be caused by a similar spasm of the biliary passages. Generative Organs and Organs of Secretion Disorders of the Urinary System. — As we shall later study the disorders of secretion, we shall now confine our attention to the phenomena connected with the organs of excretion. Spasm of the urethra is a not infrequent symptom of hysteria, and when attended by slight hsematuria may be erroneously diagnosed as renal colic. The bladder may be the point from which painful phenomena arise (cystalgia). Incontin- ence of urine is uncommon ; retention of urine is much more frequent, caused sometimes by spasms or sometimes by paralytic antesthesia of the mucous membrane of the bladder. To test what form of retention exists, catheterism must be resorted to. If the bladder empties slowly, the water only coming drop by drop, paralysis is indicated; while in spasm of the neck, when the obstacle is passed there is a rush of urine. This spasm of the neck of the bladder may be mistaken for stricture of the urethra. Disorders of the Genital Organs. — In men hysteria is rarely to blame for genital disorders, except testicular anaesthesia. Many wi'iters have shown the possibility of an hysterical epididymitis. In the case of women the severe neuralgic pains of the pelvis described by various physicians ought to be ascribed to neurotic ovaritis. Disorders of menstruation, amenor- rhoea, dysmenorrhcea, and membranous metror- rhagia are frequent, and hysterical attacks have an influence on these disorders. Vaginismus may exist alone or conjoined with a rectal spasm; sexual excess is not such a prominent feature as is often supposed. Indeed it is not uncommon in cases of anaesthesia of the mucous membrane to find hysterical patients quite in- different and insensible to sexual relations. Disorders of Secretion.—Among these disorders may be named salivation, galactorrhoea, hyperi- drosis, general and local, and lastly, polyuria, which merits a special study. The polyuria which follows a convulsive crisis has long been observed. It has been suggested that permanent polyuria of an hysterical nature can be induced by hypnotism, and proofs of this abound. The quantity of urine passed is considerable, at least ten to nineteen litres, and as much as twenty- nine litres being passed daily; polyphagia and