INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF 515 tion is justified will be seen from the following- remarks :— In inducing sleep our first object must be to place the patient in those physiological con- ditions in which sleep normally occurs. What are these conditions ? If we knew them all, and could reproduce them, we could induce sleep without administering any drug at all; but, as we know only some of them, this is not always possible, although, since the missing condition may be one of those that we do know of and are able to supply, it sometimes happens that we are able by mere attention to hygiene to induce sleep without administering any drug. The two conditions that we can with the greatest confidence associate with the induction of sleep are fatigue and repletion. Other things being equal, the greater the previous exertion and the greater the fatigue, the greater the tendency to sleep; and not only is there a very definite synchronism between the absorption of food and the induction of sleep, but deficiency of food is inimical to sleep. When therefore we have to deal with a patient who suffers from sleeplessness, it is important to secure for him a healthy degree of fatigue by inducing him to take a healthy amount of muscular exertion, and especially of exertion in the open air; and it is far more important to secure for him the absorption of food. In the majority of cases of acute insanity that come under treatment the patient is suffering from starvation. He has either refused or neglected to take food in sufficient quantity, and his sleeplessness has the same source as that of the man who has had to go to bed supperless. Nothing, not even acute pain, is so efficient a cause of vigil as an empty belly. Even in the torments of toothache and of gout snatches of sleep are possible, but the hungry man does not sleep even for a moment. Hence our first measure in the treatment of acute insanity, accompanied, as it always is, by insomnia, is to give a copious meal of some easily assimilated food. Slops and stimulants, concentrated foods and meat extracts, are not what is needed. What is needed is a bellyful of easily assimilated food ;—Benger's food, reva- lenta, arrowroot, rice and milk, or better, if the patient will take it, aud his digestion can cope with it, beefsteak and potatoes, bread and butter —anything, in short, that is both nourishing and bulky. Not seldom this measure and this alone is enough to secure a sound and long sleep to a patient who has scarcely slept at all for weeks. And in any case the treatment is right. The waste of the superior cerebral regions on which the insanity depends may be of such a character that it cannot recover even when copious supplies of pabulum are presented to it; but whatever its character, it certainly cannot be made good without material to make it good; and hence, in all cases of acute and recent insanity, copious feeding is required. Young people sometimes come under care with the history that their appetite is good, that they have been eating pretty well. But in such cases the statement must be received with a qualification. The amount of food that they have taken may have been sufficient for the needs of a mature adult; but the mature adult, the parent who gives us the account, does not realise how greatly the need for food of the adolescent and the immature adult exceeds that of the mature adult. The lad of 18 or 20 needs at least three times as much food as the man of 45 or 50, and what is sufficient, judged by the standard of the one, is very insufficient for the needs of the other. On every account the administration of abundance of food is the first necessity in the treatment of acute insanity, especially in the young. But it is not enough that food should be administered. It must be absorbed. And in acute insanity, especially in melancholia, the digestive functions are almost always disordered. Even in the sane, the depression that accom- panies dyspepsia is sufficiently notorious. In morbid depression dyspepsia, or other disorder of the processes of the gastro-intestinal canal, is scarcely ever absent. This, then, must be the next care of the alienist physician, and here again the value of regulated exercise and a well-ordered diet will soon make itself apparent. If food alone is insufficient to induce sleep, and commonly it is not by itself sufficient, attention must be paid to the circumstances under which sleep is sought, which may include some that are preventing sleep. Every one knows the greater difficulty of sleeping in the sweltering heat of summer as compared with that of sleeping in cold winter nights; and many a case of insomnia may be relieved by the removal of two or three superfluous blankets. Coldness of the feet is a very effectual preventive of sleep, and the inser- tion of a hot bottle in the bed will often render the administration of a drug unnecessary. The importance of quiet need not be insisted on, and of all the complaints made by patients of ill - treatment in lunatic asylums, none has seemed to me more bitter, nor better founded, than that which refers to the flashing of a lantern in the eyes of sleepers by the night watchman, a practice which is highly inimical to sleep, and ought not to be permitted. Supposing, however, that when attention has been paid to all these matters of hygiene, and that the patient is still sleepless, resort must be had to hypnotic drugs, and of these we have a large number to choose from. The particular drug chosen will vary with the character of the malady, but in all cases the best practice is to begin with a large dose, and to give this dose time to act, rather than to give repeated small doses at frequent intervals. When a patient is