497 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS consciousness in the sphere of ideas, as melan- cholia expresses it emotionally. The patient gets to feel that he is at the mercy of his environment and that he is being worsted. Querulousness and grievance-hunting, as in Magnan's insanity, characterise the inception of the disease, and, by degrees, insane suspicion ripens into gross delusion and persists. From an early stage the disposition to believe evil is supported by peripheral processes, by par- sesthesias, or by hallucinations. The exact ex- pression which the patient finds for his sense of persecution matters very little. But we have to note two directions in one of which nearly every monomaniac of persecution seeks his ex- planation. Some patients believe themselves to be the victims of a conspiracy of known people, or of one or two people. Others refer their supposed evil flight to unknown and unknow- able agencies — mesmerism, electricity, evil spirits, or drugs. When the patient insists upon the bodily evidences of his persecution we may be sure that he has some real trouble to complain of. Take this letter, for instance, quoted by Clouston—a good sample of such complaints : " Forced dreaming, forced vomiting from the stomach, forced glut vomiting from the throat, cold shivering by the forced think- ing, sweating done in the same way, pains in the stomach any way they think. I think it is time that this way of punishment should be stopped. . . ." These "punishments" are obviously bodily stimuli. And the quotation, in the recurrence of the word "forced," illus- trates a not uncommon symptom, the use by the patient of a kind of slang (neologism) which he invents or adapts to describe his sensations. I have a patient now whom it is impossible to understand until you have learnt his vocabulary. He believes himself persecuted by what he calls " Thugs." But they are not Thugs as we know them but evil spirits who haunt the air, and who can even come at him through the earth, the trees, or walls. " Doctor," he writes, " I am at my last point. Such work these people are getting in on me as you can't possibly know. They have taken the outer circle, and they are verging more and more, prising it for all it's worth and far more than is legal." So also in cases cited by Campbell Clark in discussing Insanity of Persecution — " That I have got attraction to my frame, medical attraction to the atmosphere; that they are taking me in from Glasgow, doing as I am and has done; that they have controlled me to mechanism, steam or wind, gauging of the atmosphere ; that I have controlled my frame to his caturging or rifle pits in Lenzie" (from a letter by a male patient). A female patient uses this same word " frame." " They took in my frame in conceal- ment with their weapons." " They cannot telephone without a female frame being taken in." " I didn't come to expound the weapons VOL. IV and Mr. Tennaut will let out my frame." These neologisms are of interest as suggesting feelings and ideas which no known words are sufficient to describe. And when a patient has these quaint parsesthesias, or when hallucina- tions occur in explicit support of the delusion, recovery is not to be expected. Monomania of Exaltation.—The incidence of fixed delusion of grandeur may be as in monomania of persecution. There is a striking diiTerence in the progress of the disease which has not received sufficient attention. When patients conceive delusions of persecution they do not, as a rule, change their identity. A few cases become Cain or Ishmael, the Scarlet Woman or some other unfortunate. But in the great majority it is still, say, John Smith or Eliza Jones who is suffering persecution. In connection with delusions of grandeur on the other hand, patients almost invariably assume a changed identity. They may become a royal duke or Jesus Christ, the Empress of India or the Wife of God, as if to account for the good fortune which they are persuaded has befallen them. But they almost never believe in a delusional good fortune befalling John Smith or Eliza Jones. When a patient conceives a delusion of good he almost invariably changes his identity and assumes a new title : those who conceive delusions of evil, retain their own identity, but assume that other people have taken on a new character. For a difference so notable, the only explanation that offers itself is the very obvious one that it is a predisposition of all human nature to throw the blame of a misfortune upon one's neighboursaud toattribute to oneself all that is of good. Another point requiring explanation is as to the cause of a sense of well-being in disease. We can understand the patient who, in failing health, feels bad all over and takes a gloomy view of everything. But how does disease occasion a sense of good fortune ? In phthisis, in general paralysis, in alcoholism, a delusive hopefulness is often to be noted, and a similar anomaly presents itself in simple mania and in delusion of grandeur. In the latter instance the patient is on the rapid way to dementia in all probability, and yet he feels grand. The explanation of all such feelings probably is that, in a brain so diseased, the physical conditions of pleasurable feeling prevail. These are, as has been said, a series of reactions in mechanisms which are not called upon to discharge more energy than they can afford. In simple mania, in general paralysis, and in delusion of grandeur, the exhausted mechanisms are at i-est. The patient does not even stimulate them by self- examination. And the lower, unimpaired centres are active—especially those concerned with actions and those which subserve imagina- tion. That would imply that the melancholic brain, and the brain which suffers delusion of 32