HYDATID DISEASE 269 however, not only regards Delbet's method as useless because the walls come naturally in con- tact without sutures, but as dangerous and im- practicable. Tuffier scrapes the cyst wall and washes out the cavity with sublimate ; others fill the cavity with iodoform glycerine. In all these methods the wound is closed and no drainage employed. This is the procedure recommended of late by many writers besides those already mentioned. The procedure is applicable to non-suppurating cysts, to those where the whole of the mother-cyst and all daughter-cysts can be completely extirpated, and also, as stated by Posadas, to cysts which, by their adhesions to important viscera, or by their inclusion in such organs as are physio- logically indispensable, cannot be completely removed by methods described below. The healing of the wound by first intention obviates the intractable fistulse, protracted con- valescence, and other disadvantages of Linde- mann's operation. One of the dangers of these methods, however, is that there may be recur- rence of the disease owing to incomplete evacua- tion of the cyst; daughter-bladders, for example, may be left behind. Biidinger relates such a case. The liver was the seat of an echinococcus the size of a man's head, yet the patient had been operated on six years previously and re- garded as cured. The special danger of the intraperitoneal method is that suppuration may occur in the sac and cause peritonitis, whereas should the sac suppurate, or its cavity fill up with bile after the "modified Lindemann's operation," the removal of a suture and a drain are all that is required (Stirling). Posadas records thirty-six cases treated by the intra- peritoneal method. In twenty-eight cases there was healing by first intention ; in three cases suppuration occurred, drainage was required, bvit the subsequent cure was rapid, and in five instances there was a fatal termination. III. Enucleation may be performed in certain cases, e.g. a cyst in the liver or subciitaneous tissues, provided it be not larger than an ostrich's egg. The adventitious capsule is cautiously in- cised, and the echinococcus within is removed without a drop of fluid escaping (Posadas). Re- moval of the whole cyst en masse may be possible if the cyst be free, without adhesions, and with a pedicle, e.c/. certain cysts of the omentum (Deguy); or extirpation of the cyst together with the organ—spleen, kidney, etc.—in which it has developed may sometimes be carried out. Special points in the treatment of (a) Sub- phrenic Hydatids.—Access to the cyst has often to be obtained through the thoracic wall with resection of portions of one or more ribs. The pleural cavity will in many cases be obliterated at the level of the incision, but if not, the pleural surfaces are to be stitched together and the cyst fixed to the edge of the wound before the latter is opened. If irrigation and drainage are indi- cated a counter-opening below the costal margin is useful. (Jj) Pulmonary Echinococci.—Tapping is exceedingly dangerous because of the risk of drowning the patient with hydatid fluid. In one of Graham's cases the introduction of the needle led to the rupture of the cyst with con- sequent flooding of the healthy lung and sudden death. Operation is to be carried out on the lines indicated for subphrenic hydatids, except that as a rule no counter-opening is required, (c) Echinococci of the Kidney.—Most writers recommend incision with or without drainage. If the kidney appear to be entirely destroyed the advisability of nephrectomy may be con- sidered. Sserapin states that of thirteen patients in whom nephrectomy was performed five died. {d) Echinococci of the Spleen.—The mortality of treatment by incision and drainage is stated by Roche to be 30 per cent. Splenectomy is facili- tated by atrophy of the spleen and mobility of the tumour (Hahn), and Hartmann knew of eleven cases thus treated with only two deaths, (e) Echinococci in Bones.—Incision and scraping of the cyst with incision and drainage of abscesses may be tried, but suppuration is a serious occur- rence, and if the disease be extensive amputation of the pai't is advisable. Other methods of treatment must be men- tioned, though they are now seldom if ever employed. I. Evacuation by aspiration and in- jection of (a) 25-30 c.c. of a 1-1000 solution of corrosive sublimate, which is left in (Hanot); {b) 100-500 c.c. of the same fluid, and evacuation of the same after leaving it in for ten minutes (Debove, Mesnard). Partial evacuation of the hydatid fluid (20-50 c.c.) and injection of a similar quantity of sublimate solution (Bacelli), or of a 1-5 per cent solution of silver nitrate (Berrucio). Iodine, carbolic acid, alcohol, etc., have also been used instead of sublimate. All of these methods are associated with the dangers of simple tapping. II. Tapping was formerly the recognised method of treatment, but the associated dangers are so great that it should never be performed under any circumstances luiless it immediately precedes operation by incision. In some in- stances the withdrawal of fluid does cause the death of the parasite, in other instances the fluid slowly reacciimiilates, whilst finally in other cases the signs of refilling are simulated by the comparatively rapid growth of an echinococcus closely adjacent to the one which was tapped. III. Electrical treatment bears with it the dangers consequent on tapping, yields unreliable results, and has never been generally adopted. Boinet, recording in 1897 a case treated by electro-puncture, is the only writer who has of late advocated the employment of electricity. IV. Obsolete methods of historic interest. Such are the production of adhesions between the cyst and the parietes by the use of caustic pastes, or by the insertion into the cyst of two