HYOSCYAMUS 283 purgatives. For this purpose the green extract is usually employed. It has a marked sedative action on the muscular coat of the bladder, and is given to relieve pain, spasm, and frequency of micturition in cystitis, vesical calculus, pros- tatitis, etc. It is well to combine it with a urinary antiseptic and biichu or uva ursi. Hyoscine is largely used as a sedative to induce sleep in conditions associated with excitement and restlessness, such as acute mania, deliriun: tremens, acute alcoholism, and hj'steria. It is usually administered hypodermically in doses of about gr., but caution must be observed, as its use is not devoid of danger. It has a certain controlling action on the shaking movements of paralysis agitans, but the condition relapses as soon as it is discontinued. For chorea and epilepsy, and for insomnia due to heart disease, it is not to be recommended. Recently hyoscine has been much used in the treatment of alcohol and drug habits. The patient must be kept thoroughly under its influence, as much as ■x^^ gr. every two hours by hypodermic injection being required in some cases. The statements as to the permanency of the results are somewhat conflicting. It gives very good results in spermatorrhoea and nocturnal emissions in doses of gr. administered at bed-time. Both hyoscine and hyoscyamine have been employed by ophthalmic surgeons for dilating the pupil. They act promptly and in very dilute solution, and the mydriasis does not last so long as that produced by atropine. Recently the use of a ■combination of scopolamine and morphine has been recommended for general anaesthetic pur- poses in surgery and midwifery. The employ- ment of large enough doses to produce complete narcosis is to be condemned as very dangerous, but the preliminary injection of i gr. of morphia and gr. of scopolamine is not open to this objection, and is said to support the action of ether or chloroform by diminishing nervousness, preventing vomiting, and conducing to prolonged sleep after the operation. In midwifery similar •doses are reported to diminish excessive labour pains without interfering with the strength of the uterine contractions. Buhoisine {q.v.), an alkaloid obtained from Duboisia myoporoides and usually employed in the form of its sulphate, is chemically and physiologically identical with hyoscyamine. HypaCUSiS.—Defective hearing. Hy paest h eS ia..—Diminished sensibility ■or partial anaesthesia of a part. HypamaurOSiS. —Slight or partial amaurosis. Hypatonia.—Slight atony. HyperacanthOSiS. — Thickening of the prickle-cell layer of the epidermis, as seen in such diseases as tylosis palmae, akrokeratoma, tyloma, and clavus. Hyperacidity. See Indigestion {Symp- toms, Cardialgia). HyperaCUSiS.—Morbidly increased sen- sibility to sound. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth [General Diagnosis, Tinnitxis, etc.); Tinnitus Aurium. HyperadenOSiS- — Glandular enlarge- ment. Hy perse mi a. — The presence of an in- creased amount of blood in any organ or tissue of the body ; increased vascularity. See Ankle- JoiNT, Region of. Diseases {Tuberculous Arth- ritis); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Ilypercemia) ; Headache {Causes, Ilypercfmia); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Vascular Disturb- ances, Hypercfmia). Hypersesthesia.—Increased sensitive- ness to external impressions of sight, sound, touch, etc. See Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Symptomatology, Palpitation and Cardiac Pain) ; Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Hypercesthesia) ; Menin- gitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Symptoms, Ney-vous, Cutaneous Hypercesthesia); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {SympAoms, Sensory); Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in Nervous System); Rickets {Clinical Features); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Sensory Phen- omena) ; Visceral Pain {Cutaneous and Muscular Hypermsthesia). HyperakusiS. See Hyperacusis ; Tin- nitus Aurium. Hyperaibuminosis.—An excessive amount of albumin in the blood, due to loss of water and salts, as in cholera or after the use of hydragogue cathartics. H y pe raI gfesi a.—Excessive sensiti veness to painful impressions. See Hysteria ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Arsenical Poisoning, Symp)tomatology, Hyperalgesia). HyperaplirodiSia. — Excessive ven- ereal desire. Hyperbuiia.—Exaggeration of the power of the will, as it is met with occasionally in in- sanity ; it is used by Friedlander to signify " violent mania occurring in persons of weak will and depraved morals." HypercatharsiS.—Excessive purging. Hypercedemonia. — Excessive an- xiety. Hypercllioriiydria.—The presence of more than the normal amount of hydrochloric acid in the stomach. See Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases of {Special Symptomatology, Secretory).