HAEMORRHAGE 46 course of time entirely absorbed, whilst as the result of the subsequent organisation of the internal coagulum the artery becomes completely obliterated at the seat of injury. In lacerated wounds of arteries the middle and internal coats curl upwards and inwards into the lumen of the vessel, and the external coat and sheath become twisted over the opening. Hence the fact that lacerated wounds of vessels scarcely bleed appre- ciably. In wounds of veins retraction and con- traction are not so perceptible as in the case of divided arteries, but the collapse of the wall of the vein greatly aids the formation of a coagulum. Diagnosis of Hemorrhage. — When the blood escapes externally no difficulty in making a diagnosis of haemorrhage can occur. Very different, however, is the diagnosis of concealed htemorrhage, as when the blood finds its way into one of the great cavities of the body, the peritoneal cavity for example. In such cases, though most of the constitutional symptoms of severe hajmorrhage be present, they frequently are only by the employment of the greatest care able to be diagnosticated from those of shock. In the great majority of cases the physical signs enable a correct diagnosis to be made. Treatment of Haemorrhage.—Constitutional treatment is called for after a severe haBmorrhage (the bleeding having been, if possible, first arrested). Owing to the general weak state of the patient energetic treatment is often called for. The head should be placed as low as possible to prevent ansemia of the brain, and the patient be kept absolutely at rest, the win- dows of the room should be opened to ensure a free supply of fresh air, the patient should be warmly covered with blankets. The arms and the legs may be elevated, or better, encircled in Esmarch's rubber bandages, in order that blood may be driven out of tliem into the brain and the thoracic viscera. Large quantities of warm fluids may be given to the patient to drink, or better, a copious enema of water, 1 to li pints, may be injected into the lai-ge bowel, and will generally be retained. Heart stimulants, such as strychnine, carbonate of ammonia, or better, hypodermic injections of ether or brandy, are very beneficial. There is, however, a danger of producing over-stimulation, so that these remedies need to be judiciously administered. In very extreme anremia from hicmorrhage, when the above-mentioned means fail, there still remains one remedy which has often saved life in the most desperate cases, and which should never be omitted, viz. the transfusion of a steri- lised -07 per cent of sodium chloride (see " Transfusion "). It may be well here to point out that the cause of death from haemorrhage is dependent solely upon mechanical conditions. Death occurs •when the blood is insufficient in amount duly to satisfy the capacity of the vascular system. The heart is thus like an empty pump, and is unable to drive on the blood. Here the obvious indication is to increase the volume of blood by the addition to it of some liquid, preferably normal salt solution, in order to enable the cir- culation to be carried on. In place of intravenous injection two or three pints of normal saline solution may be injected into the subcutaneous tissue, preferably under the breasts. Rectal injection of warm saline solution is also an invaluable method, owing to the rapidity with which absorption of fluid takes place in the large intestine. In cases of severe hsemorrhage 1 to 2 pints of warm water injected into the rectum will be retained and rapidly absorbed. This method requires no assistants or sterilisation, and is only second in rapidity of action to intravenous injection. Local Treatment of Ihemorrhage.—-Primary Hsemorrhage.—Before describing the various measures which may be employed in order to control, either temporarily or permanently, bleeding from a wound, it is well to emphasise the fact that pressure properly applied to the bleeding point will suffice to stop temporarily bleeding even from the largest vessels whilst measures for the permanent arrest of the hsemor- rhage are being undertaken. This is a point too often lost sight of. 1. Position. — Elevation of the arm or leg always diminishes and may of itself suffice to arrest hsemorrhage from the part in question. Forced flexion of a joint, elbow or hip, for example, on the proximal side of the bleeding point has a similar effect. 2. Compression.—This may be applied directly to the bleeding point, preferably by the fingers of the surgeon or an assistant, or the main artery may be compressed between the wound and the heart. (a) Digital Compression.—As mentioned above, digital compression will temporarily arrest bleed- ing from any vessel, but can only be kept up for a comparatively short time. (h) Direct Pressure by Means of Antiseptic Compresses.—This is a valuable method of treat- ment in cases where there is considerable oozing of blood from the wound, particularly in the case of a large cavity. The wound may be tightly stuffed with antiseptic gauze or wool, and over this a bandage, preferably elastic, should be somewhat firmly applied. The gauze packing should be left in position for two or three days, though if the bleeding be arrested the bandage may be removed earlier. This method is not to be recommended in the case of furious bleeding from a large artery. (c) Tourniquets are instruments by means of which pressure is applied to the main artery on the proximal side of the wound. Their em- ployment is an invaluable method of securing temporary control of arterial hsemorrhage, but