INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF 451 yet those who advocate similar measures. But we must limit our proposals to practical sug- gestions to modify the liberty of the subject to destroy himself and confer an heritage of woe upon his offspring. Legislative protection is not within the sphere of our activities. True, Dr. Toulouse has formulated a proposal for France, where the consent of parents must be given before marriage, suggesting that the contract of marriage should be protected by an investigation into the physical condition of the parties. He suggests that they should be examined by medical men in the manner incumbent upon those who enter on policies of life insurance. He would declare any marriage void if facts as to morbid heredity were concealed. Certainly such an enactment would direct public attention to the wrongdoing which now proceeds un- checked, but it would bring in its train evils which demand consideration. For instance, how far would the State be justified in branding with illegitimacy the offspring of those to whom marriage was forbidden, thus adding to the burden of their neurotic inheritance social dis- qualifications which they are specially unfit to bear 1 Our duty lies nearer at hand ; we must hope to stem the tide of degeneracy and insanity by our efforts to educate the nation and to guide it in proper directions. Our present restrictive legal enactments fail by reason of their incom- pleteness, for the inefficacy of the Habitual Drunkards Acts and the Contagious Diseases Acts is deplorable not only in regard to the present generation, but still more in regard to those who are to come. Insanity, Pathology of. Introduction ..... 451 Pathogenesis . . . . .451 General Principles . . . .451 Pathological Anatomy .... 457 Scalp 457 Skull 457 Dura Mater ..... 458 Pia Arachnoid . . . .459 Cerebral Vessels .... 459 Neuroglia and Mesoglia . . . 460 Cortical Nerve Cells . . . 460 Congenital Abnormalities of the Brain 461 Focal Lesions . . . . .461 A. Pathogenesis To have the pathology of insanity brought into line with other departments of pathology has long been a desideratum. Most alienists have, however, regarded the task as for the present impossible of accomplishment, whilst not a few have scoffed at the very idea as in the nature of things absurd. In the opinion of the writer, it can be shown that there are certain fundamental principles underlying the develop- ment of all disease and applicable no less to mental diseases than to gastric, renal, or hepatic disorders. The first principle that it is necessary to lay down, is that every living being is the produce of two developmental factors, namely, heredity and environmental influences. The term heredity has, to science at least, now lost all significance of transmission from parent to child that it once had. Kecent embryological investigation has shown that there is a continuity of germ-cells, and that the individual is the product of one germ-cell, which, at a certain stage in the cycle of the germ-cells, is sacrificed to form a tem- porary habitation for the rest, which continue their cycle therein. The individual therefore cannot inherit characters from his parents; he is simply the realisation of the developmental potentialities of a primary germ-cell which has descended in direct line from other germ-cells, and which develops in response to the influence of an environment to which there is more or less perfect adaptation. Slight modifications of the developmental potentialities of germ-cells (genetic variation) certainly take place from time to time, and there is conclusive experimental evidence that, in plants at least, they occur in consequence of changes in the environment. In regard to animals, the proof is not so direct, but there can be little doubt that in them also genetic varia- tion is dependent upon similar causes. The conjugation of germ-cells, which takes place at a definite stage in their life-circle, results in the formation of primary germ-cells, the develop- mental potentialities of which represent the blending of those of the paternal and maternal germ - cells. This blending is, however, in- fluenced by certain laws of exclusive inherit- ance, which have in recent years been the subject of much investigation, especially in plants, under the denomination of Mendelism. In the development of every individual the hereditary factor is fixed; the environmental factor, on the other hand, may vary within very wide limits, and the product will vary accord- ingly- The second great principle that it is necessary to insist upon is that the individual constitutes a vital reactive mechanism. Heredity and environmental influences build up a highly complex organism, and every vital phenomenon it is capable of exhibiting is a response to ex- ternal stimuli. This is true of the individual as a whole, of the various organs and of the separate cells composing the tissues. We hear the ring of the telephone bell and we go to the instrument in order to answer the summons; we merely perform a complex reflex action in- duced by the representations awakened by the sound of the bell. Similarly, the functional activity of a glandular organ, such as the stomach, is purely a response to stimuli from its environ- ment, which includes the other organs and tissues of the body; and the activity of every