117 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM three in number, and rarely there is a fourth : (1) that of the apex situated normally in the 5th intercostal space, well within the left mammary line, and occupying a small area about that of a square inch. The apex-beat represents the contraction of the left ventricle, and when this chamber is enlai'ged the apex- beat is displaced downwards and to the left, and remains well defined, unless the ventricle becomes rounded in shape from dilatation, in which case the apex-beat loses its definition and often disappears altogether. Some individuals, though apparently free from heart disease, have no apex-beat. This has been explained in various ways, but the fact must be recognised. In effusion into the pericardium the apex-beat may be elevated, but it is difficult in such a case to be sure that the impulse taken for the apex-beat really represents it. (2) An ill-defined pulsation below the xiphoid cartilage is known as the " epigastric impulse," and indicates the move- ments of the right ventricle. Certain individuals, apparently free from heart disease, have marked epigastric iinpulse, presumably because of their having a short sternum. This impulse is present in nearly all cases of heart disease in which there is interference with the pulmonary circula- tion, and is apt to be specially pronounced in cases of pulmonary emphysema, in which there is not only obstruction in the lung-circulation and engorged liver, but a lowering in the position of the diaphragm as well. This impulse of the right ventricle must be carefully distinguished from actual expansile pulsation of the liver itself, which is an extreme result of obstruction in the pulmonary circulation, and which has been already referred to. (3) The third area of cardiac pulsation to be noticed is in the 2nd left intercostal space close to the stenium. Pulsation here is probably never normal, though it may be the left lung that is at fault and not the heart. This pulsation is usually associated with epigastric pulsation, and depends on enlarge- ment of the infundibulum of the I'ight ventricle. At one time such pulsation was attributed to the left auricle, the appendix of which comes to the front in this situation to the left of the pulmonary artery. But the appendix is often found plugged with clot, and even when active and dilated, gets as it wei"e pushed aside by the dilated infundibulum. Paradoxical though it may seem, as good a case for the right auricular appendix being the seat of pulsation in the 2nd space to the left of the sternum may be made out, for it has actually been found greatly dilated and free from clot to the left of the sternum. Those who advocate the auricular origin of visible pulsation in the 2nd left inter- space, admit that such pulsation is ventricular- systolic in rhythm, and account for it by a backward current into the left auricle from the left ventricle through the mitral valves, although the systolic murmur audible over the pulsation is quite absent from the apex, to which the downward directed valve curtains might be expected to direct it. Pulsation in the 3rd left interspace is specially common, apart from mitral stenosis, in cases of chlorosis, in which the blood would seem to have difficulty in passing through the pulmonary circuit. These are just the cases in which visible venous pulsation in the neck is so manifest, bearing out the special implication of the right side of the heart in the circulatory disturbance. (4) In cases of great enlargement of the right chambers the right miricle occasions visible pulsation to the right of the lower half of the sternum. Whenever the left ventricle is unduly exposed, whether it be from retraction of the left lung or from dilatation of the heart, it is common to see systolic retraction of the intercostal spaces above the apex-beat, a result simply of atmo- spheric pressure, the heart, of course, occupy- ing less space during its systole than during its diastole. This must not be confused with retraction of the area corresponding to the left \enix\c\eincludingthe apex, which is a sign of com- plete pericardial adhesion, internal and external. Palpation.—The apex-beat of the heart is the first object of attention when the hand is placed over the cardiac region. Valuable information is afforded in this way as to the condition of the most important chamber of the heart—the left ventricle—for the apex of the heart is formed alone by this chamber. The situation, the extent, and force of the apex-beat must in all cases when possible be carefully investigated,— that is to say, if the apex-beat is present, because in not a few cases of cardiac disease there is no apex-beat, and the negative fact is always to be iioted, though it need not be given an undue share of attention, seeing that not a few indi- viduals, who present no evidence of cardiac disease, do not possess an apex-beat. When there is an apex-beat its situation fixes at once the greatest extension of the left ventricle to the left, for the apex must always be the portion of the chamber lying to the extreme left. The extent of the impulse, which normally should occupy the space of about a square inch, again, is often increased considerably, as is specially noticeable in cases of aortic incompetence in which there is dilatation and hypertrophy of the left ventricle. A well-defined though extensive apex-beat may be taken as an indication that the ventricle still retains its form and has not become rounded or globular. For reasons already referred to, absence of the apex-beat cannot be accepted implicitly as a sign of cardiac weakness, but if a previously present apex-beat ceases, it may be accepted as such a sign, and in corroboration of this infer- ence it will commonly be noticed that the impulse of the right ventricle increases as that of the left declines, as was long ago observed by Stokes in typhus cases.