HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 131 arc commonly well heard in the same area, and cases of simple dilatation of the heart presenting such murmur without any valve lesion are known, though very exceptionally, to occur. Even when mitral stenosis exists, and there is aortic incompetence present as well, it may be a matter of impossibility to apportion the dia- stolic murmur heard at the apex and over the ventricles to each of the lesions, for the diastolic murmur of mitral stenosis is much wider in its possible distribution than the presystolic, whose wide propagation is altogether exceptional. Admitting, as we must, that aortic incompe- tence is frequently associated with mitral stenosis, and that its murmur is apt to be confused with the diastolic murmur of the latter, that the dis- tribution of the two murmurs may not distin- guish them, and that a diastolic murmur may be present in the mitral area when there is neither the one lesion nor the other present, our difficulties with regard to the significance of diastolic murmur are not yet at an end, although what remains of them concerns essentially the recognition or rejection of a possibly associated aortic incompetence. The diastolic murmur that has yet to be con- sidered has its place of distribution to the left of the sternum between the third and fourth or fifth cartilages, and is usually soft and blowing, while it immediately follows a greatly accen- tuated second sound. This murmur, which we have called " the murmur of high pressure in the pulmonary artery," unquestionably occurs in cases in which there has long been excessive pressure in that artery, so that its dilatation is accomplished and incompetence of its valves results, in the same way as aortic incompetence results from like changes in the aorta. In no lesion is the blood-pressure in the pulmonary artery apt to be long maintained at such a degree as in mitral stenosis, and hence the fre- quency of occurrence of this murmur in cases of the lesion. At times the true diastolic murmur of mitral stenosis is practically indistinguishable from that of aortic incompetence, and is preceded by the systolic murmurs of coexisting mitral incom- petence, etc., so that a double to-and-fro systolic and diastolic murmur is heard over the whole heart. In one case of the writer's, the patient came into hospital with a systolic murmur only, but later developed a loud and prolonged dia- stolic murmur which was widely propagated all over the cardiac surface. This murmur, along with the accompanying systolic one, closely simulated the ordinary " double aortic " murmur of aortic incompetence, except in one curious and interesting respect, that it did not seem to run off directly from the second sound, where that sound could be heard along with the murmurs towards the base of the heart. Diffi- cult as it is to explain the intervention of an appreciable pause or interval between the second sound and the diastolic uuu-mur of mitral stenosis, it seems impossible to under- stand how a pause could occur between the sound and following murmur, when the latter is due to incompetence of the arterial valves— aortic or pulmonary. The Pulse in Mitral Stenosis.—Much discus- sion has taken place with regard to the state of the pulse in mitral stenosis, some observers contending that it is characterised by perfect regularity and well-maintained — even high—■ arterial tension, others that irregularity is its great feature. The writer has carefully studied the subject and has arrived at the following con- clusions :—(1) Regular pulses of both high and low tension ai'e commonly met with, the former Fig. j.—Typical pulse of mitral stenosis in first stage. Pulse regular and of good tension. Fig. 6.—Typical pulse in mitral stenosis in second or irregular stage. The curves may be regarded as constituted of a mixture in varying proportion of those composing the pulse of the first and third stages. Fig. 7.—Pulse in mitral stenosis in third stage. Curves regular and of low tension. occurring in the earlier stages of the case, the latter towards the end of the case, but low tension may be assumed by the pulse in the early stages, determined by physiological in- dividual peculiarity or by disturbing agencies, such as the presence of pyrexia. (2) The pulse that is most characteristic of mitral stenosis is an irregular one, in which some of the beats are of fairly high arterial tension, and others abor- tive and of quite low arterial tension; these two types of pulse or—speaking with reference to the sphygmogram—of curve occur in all degrees of proportion, and series of beats of one or other kind are commonly interrupted by a beat or more of the other type. One may, in fact, regard this stage as made up in varying pro- portion of the preceding and succeeding stages already referred to. It must be admitted, however, that an indisthiguishable pulse is