FEEDING 401 INFANT occasionally been conveyed by milk ; recently, also, much attention has been paid to the trans- mission of tuberculosis in this way, and it has been shown that milk from cows with tuber- culosis of the udder frequently contains the tubercle bacillus; the risk of infection is un- doubtedly a real one, but the frequency of its occurrence has probably been greatly exag- gerated. A much commoner and more widely disastrous infection from milk is that which produces summer diarrhoea; whatever may be the micro-organism which produces it, there can be little doubt that milk infection is chiefly responsible for the terrible mortality from in- fantile diarrhoea. {See " Gastro-intestinal Dis- orders of Infancy.") For the prevention of these various risks three methods of preparing the milk are avail- able : (1) Boiling, (2) Pasteurisation, (3) Steril- isation. Boiling is at once the simplest and the least objectionable method of preparing the milk; but it must be understood that by''boiling" the writer means simply heating the milk just to the boiling-point, and then at once stopping the process. It is advisable to stir the milk frequently during the heating, so that the whole of it may be heated to the boiling-point. Bacteriological observations have shown that for all practical purposes milk which has been treated thus is a perfectly safe food so far as any risk of infection is concerned ; even virulent tuberculous milk was found to be innocuous after exposure to a temperature of only 185° F. for five minutes (Woodhead). Prolonged boiling for five, ten, or fifteen minutes, and a fortiori for such periods as half an hour or one hour, is not only un- necessary, but in some way seems to impair the nutritive value of the milk. A sufficient quan- tity of the food to last twelve hours can be pre- pared twice daily; the milk and cream should be mixed before the boiling is carried out, but if lime-water is to be used it should be added subsequently, as some chemical change seems to be produced by boiling it with the milk. After boiling, the mixture should be put at once into clean bottles, which are closed with tight-fitting stoppers, and should be rapidly cooled in cold water, or on ice, and then kept in some cool place until required. Compared with pasteurisation boiling has the disadvantage that it gives the milk a taste which some infants may dislike, but, as a matter of fact, very few infants object to it, so that this is seldom a practical difficulty. The coagulation of the lactalbumin by boiling is also a disadvant- age, as it reduces to some extent the nutritive value of the milk. Prolonged boiling, like other methods of com- plete sterilisation, has been shown to produce some change in the milk whereby it loses its antiscorbutic power; and the continuous use of such milk is liable to produce infantile scurvy. VOL. IV So far all are agreed; but there is more to be said on this point. Infants come under notice every now and then who have been fed continu- ously on milk which has been boiled for fifteen minutes, or perhaps longer; they show no evi- dence whatever of pronounced scurvy, but they are "not getting on," they are peevish and miserable, their skin, instead of showing a clear healthy colour, shows an earthy pallor, only less marked than the anaemia of scurvy, their muscles are flabby, and they are not gaining weight as they should; there is, in fact, a cachexia, which is hardly defined enough to be called scurvy, but may well be the vanishing point of scurvy—and this appears to be due in some cases to overboiled milk, but much more often to sterilisation. If, however, milk be heated only just to the boiling-point, and then immediately cooled, it would seem that the risk of any such cachexia is considerably diminished. Pasteurisation of milk consists in keeping it at a temperature of 155°-165° F. for twenty to thirty minutes. This is found to render the milk innocuous, so far as pathogenic micro- organisms are concerned, but like heating just to the boiling-point, or even boiling for two or three minutes, it does not necessarily render the milk " sterile " in the strict sense of the word. Various forms of apparatus are made for this purpose under the name of "sterilisers," this term being loosely used to include both pasteur- ising and sterilising apparatus. The principle is the same in most of these forms : the milk is placed in an inner vessel which is surrounded by a jacket of cold water, into which a thermo- meter passes, the water is slowly raised to a temperature of 155°-165° F., and the source of heat is then removed; the milk is left sur- rounded by this heated water for twenty minutes. An ordinary deep tin saucepan, with a wire or perforated tin tray suspended in it, as in a fish-kettle, so that the bottle of milk may not be overheated by contact with the bottom of the saucepan, will suit the purpose admir- ably ; a hole is bored in the lid, and a high temperature thermometer, which can be bought from any scientific instrument maker, passes through a cork fitted into this hole, into the water inside the saucepan. A glass bottle which contains the milk, and is stoppered with a plug of cotton wool, is placed on the tray in the saucepan, and surrounded with cold water up to the level of the milk ; the saucepan is then placed on the fire, or more conveniently over a gas-jet, and the contents are slowly heated until the thermometer projecting through the lid registers 160° F., the saucepan is then removed from the fire, and after twenty minutes the bottle of milk is taken out, the cotton wool is replaced by a tight-fitting stopper, and the bottle is then rapidly cooled, and kept in some cool place until required for use. Whether pasteurisation is altogether free 26