HYPNOTISM 302 nose. Hypnosis was induced and the bones moulded into position. There was no pain during or after these operations. Mr. B., aged 40, 1890.—Fracture of bones of arm and shoulder girdle, with injury to soft parts and subsequent ankylosis of joints. The adhesions were frequently broken down under chloroform. Result, swelling, inflammation, and renewed immobility. Ultimately, the patient refused the antesthetic, and would not allow passive movements without it. He was hypno- tised at the first attempt, and the adhesions broken down without pain ; this was repeated from time to time, and followed by complete recovery. The late Mr. A. Turner, L.D.S., published an account in the Dental Journal for March 1890, of some of his operations on my patients. He stated that on one occasion he had extracted forty teeth, selecting those cases likely to afford a severe test. Hypnosis was induced and ter- minated almost instantaneously; anesthesia was complete, and yet the movements of the patient could be controlled by the operator, thus obviat- ing the necessity for gags, etc. A weak, anfemic girl, with valvular disease,—likely to " deepen " under nitrous oxide, or to collapse for a day after ether,—was quickly and quietly rendered unconscious. Two left and two right molars, and a lower bicuspid, all difficult teeth, were painlessly extracted and without subsequent suffering. On 28th March 1890, a number of my patients were operated on at Leeds, and, according to Mr. Pridgin Teale, who was present with sixty other medical men, " the experiments were deeply interesting, and had been marvellously successful." The following were two of the cases :— C, aged 19.—Dental caries. A weak, anaemic girl. Hypnotic antesthesia was produced by my written suggestion, and sixteen teeth extracted, while I remained in another room. D. , a boy aged 8. — Exostosis of great toe. Hypnosis first induced two days previously. Mr. !Mayo Robson removed the great toe nail, then the exostosis, and part of the first phalanx. In none of the cases was there any pain either during or after operation. Some were nervous subjects, highly sensitive to pain in the normal condition; others were strong, healthy working men. All returned to Goole the same day, and in every case the healing process was remarkably quick. Further operations are reported by other ob- servers, thus:—Tillaux, colporrhaphy; Schmeltz, ectropion and amputation of breast; Bourdon, uterine fibroid; Grossmann, fractures and dis- locations ; Sandberg, dental operations; Forel, cataract; Wood, necrosis of humerus; van Eeden and van Renterghem, dental operations. Granting, as recent statistics apparently show, that 94 per cent of mankind can be hypnotised. it must still be admitted that many preliminary attempts are required in a large proportion of cases. Further, hypnosis frequently never becomes deep enough for operative purposes; this is specially noticeable amongst the nervous and hysterical. Under these circumstances, unless there were grave objections to the use of other anaesthetics, I should consider it a waste of time to attempt to hypnotise a patient for operative purposes alone. Apart from this, hypnotic anaesthesia possesses many advantages, thus:—(1) Once deep hypnosis, with anaesthesia, has been obtained, it can be immediately reinduced at any time; (2) No repetition of any hypnotic process is necessary, the hypnotiser's written or verbal command is sufficient; (3) The hypnotiser's presence is not essential, the patient can be put in touch with the operator by written order, or by other means previously suggested during hypnosis; (4) No abstinence from food or other preparation is necessary; (5) Nervous apprehension can be removed by suggestion ; (6) Hypnosis is pleasant and absolutely devoid of danger; (7) Hypnosis can be maintained indefinitely and terminated immediately at will; (8) The patient can be placed in any position without risk—a not un- important point in operations on the mouth and throat—and will alter that position at the com- mand of the operator; (9) Gags and other retentive apparatus are unnecessary ; (10) Anal- gesia alone can be suggested, and the patient left sensitive to other impressions—an advantage in operations on the mouth and throat; (11) There is no tendency to sickness during or after operation, a distinct gain in abdominal cases; (12) Pain after operation, and during subsequent dressings, can be entirely prevented by suggestion ; (13) The rapidity of the healing process, possibly as a result of the absence of pain, is frequently very marked. Hypnotism in Obstetrics Elliotson and other mesmerists of his day reported many cases of painless confinement, and in their time newspaper announcements of births were sometimes followed by the words " painlessly during hypnotic trance." Many instances of painless hypnotic birth are reported by modern observers ; amongst others, the follow- ing cite cases in which all the patients were primi- parae—Kingsbury, Schrenck-Notzing, Wetter- strand, Mesnet, Fraipont, Fanton, Dobrolsky. Dr. Bourdon suggested to a patient, in labour at the full term, that the pains should cease and not reappear for eight days. He claims that the expei'iment was successful, and that the confinement took place painlessly at the time he had selected. Schrenck-Notzing states that hypnotic sug- gestion can render labour painless. It also facilitates its course by regulating the position of the body and limbs, and increasing or diminish-