126 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM at the 2nd costal cartilage, no doubt transmitted in part of the vessel's course through the pulmon- ary artery and the conus arteriosus, while it may be felt on a finger, in the suprasternal notch, being thrust behind the manubrium sterni. It must be remembered that a similar systolic thrill may be met with under conditions the very opposite to those of stenosis, namely, cases of aortic dilatation, of which condition exaggera- tion of pulsation and the auscultatory condition to be described will usually afibrd ample evidence. It may be said that aortic stenosis militates against aortic dilatation, but the two conditions are not incompatible, as a matter of pathological experience. Percussion affords information as to the size and shape of the heart, and therefore as to the condition of its chambers in regard to dila- tation. It need not be here referred to in detail. Auscultation affords very valuable evidence as to the presence of aortic stenosis, though the murmur—systolic—associated with the lesion is of itself of little value, and for this reason, that imder the opposite condition — that is to say, dilatation of the orifice—the same sign may be pronounced. Such dilatation invariably involves the first part of the arch, and therefore the second sound is intensified and accentuated, while in aortic stenosis the second sound is ill-developed, feeble, and toneless as a rule, and in many cases entirely absent, and this too without there being any diastolic murmur. It must also be re- membered that diastolic murmur is not rarely associated with dilatation of the aorta and con- sequent accentuation of the second sound, with which character the incompetence of the valves does not usually appreciably interfere. It follows that if we meet with a case in which there is a systolic thrill and a loud, hai'sh systolic murmur, followed by a feeble second sound, or no second sound at all, in the aortic area, the probability of there being aortic stenosis is great. The presence of slight diastolic murmur will rather enhance than impair the value of this evidence. The history of an old rheumatic attack still further strengthens the evidence, as do also the minor physical facts elsewhere referred to, such as slow pulse, deficient carotid visibleness, etc. The Pulse in Aortic Stetiosis.—There are two varieties of pulse that have become associated Fio. 1.—An.icrotic imls- of aortic stenosis. in clinical medicine with aortic stenosis; probably neither possesses pathognomonic value in dia- gnosis, and to one of them greater diagnostic significance is to be attached than to the other. These arc commonly known as the (1) anacrotic pulse and the (2) bisfericns pulse, and as regards their diagnostic value they stand in this order. The characters of these pulses are best studied graphically with the aid of the sphygmograph. (1) The sphygmogram of the anacrotic pulse is characterised by a sloping upstroke, which near the top is marked by a slight wave indicative of the position of the percussion wave, but the actual apex of the curve is above this, and is formed, not as normally by the percussion wave, but by the tidal wave, which is usually rounded and prolonged. The line of descent, like the upstroke, is sloping, and the dicrotic wave in its course is apt to be ill-marked. The pulse is usually infrequent, and has besides a sluggish wave-beat. When from nervous or other influence the pulse is rendered frequent, the characteristic features of the sphygmogram may become very much altered ; on the other hand, a great degree of persistence of these same characters in spite of disturbing influences, as those of vaso-dilators and pyrexia, may be manifest. When the anacrotic pulse is well developed and is associated with the characteristic murmur and thrill of the lesion, its diagnostic value is great. It must be remembered, however, that most pulses with a pronounced tidal wave are readily rendered anacrotic by the application of too great pressui'e with the instrument. The sensation imparted through the finger by an anacrotic pulse is sufficiently denoted by the sphygmogram. The infrequency and slowness of the pulse are its special features. (2) The bisferiens pulse possesses very different features, and it certainly bears less definite rela- tionship to the lesion than the anacrotic pulse. The upstroke is perpendicular, the apex of the percussion wave acute, and the cleft between this and the tidal Avave re- markably deep, approaching in well-marked ex- amples the " re- spiratory line," while the tidal itself is wave Bisferiens pnlse of aortic stenosis. Valves incompetent. little less pecu- liar, its summit forming an acute angle while the aortic notch is situated low down in the line of descent of the curve. The dicrotic wave is usually, but not invariably, ill-developed. This pulse can easily be recognised by palpa- tion simply, at least the double beat can, though it may be impossible to distinguish the natiu-e of the second beat in this way, that is to decide whether it is the tidal or the dicrotic wave that has become exaggerated. Exaggeration of the dicrotic wave in a case of aortic disease is, how- ever, unlikely. Aortic stenosis is often associated with some degree of incompetence of the valves, and this may be so developed as to modify the characteristic tracing of the more pronoiuiced lesion.