125 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM rare lesiou it indicates —tricuspid , ateiiosis — while pulmonary incompetence as an actual lesion is still more rai-e, so that these murmurs are little likely to occasion error in diagnosis. Moreover, in aortic incompetence, the vascular phenomena, referred to elsewhere, are generally characteristic of this lesion. There are certain noisy murmurs of which conduction in definite directions can hardly be recognised, and which may indeed be audible at a distance from the jjatient's body. Aortic incompetence is specially likely to furnish examples of such murmurs, which may be heard all over the trunk and along the spine from occiput to sacrum, as well as at a distance from the body. How little variation as regards murmur can be attributed to changes in the lesion was well illustrated by a case of the writer's. A patient was admitted to the wards so intensely cyanotic that he was at once bled. On his entering the ward most careful ausculta- tion failed to reveal any murmur, yet a day or two later the patient presented a systolic murmur of extraordinary loudness audible all over his chest, and even at a short distance from it. The patient had been the subject of acute rheumatism many years before, and on post-mortem examination, a considerable time after his admission to hospital, was found to have a greatly constricted mitral orifice without any trace of recent lesion. Similar caprice in the behaviour of a murmur is often witnessed in cases of aortic incompetence, in which a long- familiar murmur may disappear during febrile or other disturbance of the circulation, while it cannot for a moment be doubted, from the arterial condition, that regurgitation is taking- place as freely as ever. Such cases supply a warning not to base a diagnosis of such and such condition of lesion on any peculiarity of its murmur as regards loudness, distribution, or quality. A curious point with regard to musical quality in the murmur of mitral in- competence is the frequent loss of this quality by the murmur audible at the back. If we draw no special inference from musical quality in a murmur this curious experience will not disturb us, but it does raise a doubt in one's mind as to the musical murmur at the apex and the non-musical murmur at the back beina, as is usually believed, one and the same. Having considered the facts to be ascertained by the physical method of diagnosis in the ab- stract, it will now be necessary to reconsider them as they occur in nature, grouped together in varying combinations, according to the form of disease that gives them origin. The Physical Signs in Combination op the Different Forms op Heart Disease We shall in this section deal, in the first instance, with one of the simplest of the valve lesions—obstruction at the aortic oi-ifice or aortic stenosis. From its very nature, this lesiou, which has usually been produced by rheumatic endo- carditis, is of slow formation, and the left ventricle —the most important chamber of the heart— has plenty of time to accommodate itself to the adverse circumstances the lesion imposes on it. The difiiculty must be encountered first of all in systole, and, so long as complete systole on the part of the left ventricle is maintained, the difficulty is limited to systole. Only when systole fails in its perfect accomplishment because of leakage through the mitral curtains as a result of muscle failure, or because of imperfect empty- ing of the ventricle as a consequence of this same muscle failure, does occasion for dilatation of the left ventricle arise. The importance of these considerations in regard to the physical state of the heart in aortic stenosis is immense, and by them we can imderstand how it happens that this lesion of all others has been notorious for the length of time it can be endured with com- parative impunity. When once, however, muscle failure has set in, the gravity of the lesion is great. The slow pulse that is frequently noticed in cases of the kind perhajas helps in warding off the development of muscle failure, and may be regarded as a manifestation of the vis medicatrix natura;. Coming to a systematic investigation of the physical signs met with in a case of aortic stenosis, our first inspection should be made of the neck, in which arterial pulsation tends to be less evident than in most other forms of heart disease, while the presence and degree of venous pulsation depend on the development of muscle failure of the heart as a whole—in other words, on the implication of the right chambers—in the circulatory disturbance. On insjjecting the chest the apex-beat may or may not be dis- cernible ; its situation in the former case will determine the size of the left ventricle, while epigastric impulse points to involvement of the right ventricle in the results of the lesion. It has been held that aortic stenosis tends to diminish the apex-beat, and in some degree this may be the case, but the vigour of the muscle of the left ventricle as well as the shape of the chamber has always to be taken into account with regard to the apex-beat. Inasmuch as aortic incompetence is often associated in some degree with stenosis, it may be well to bear in mind that incompetence would seem to tend in the direction of exaggerating the apex-impulse. Palpation will usually confirm the observation made by inspection as regards arterial pulsation in the neck, and the force, extent, and situation of such cardiac impulse as there may be. The characters of the pulse are reserved for special comment later. Over the aortic area a very valuable palpation sign may often be elicited, namely, systolic thrill, which may be felt all over the course of the aorta, from its origin deep in the heart to the termination of its contiguity with the upper part of the sternum