HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 97 for such a large number of cases of aortic de- ficiency in addition to strain, gout and Bright's disease are often said to be of etiological im- portance, but they are so probably only through the influence of vascular pathological states. Certainly sclerotic valves are commonly met with in subjects who have never experienced the toxic influences of gout nor suffered from Bright's disease, while on the other hand chronic endocarditis probably never occurs as a direct consequence of these states. Malaria has been €redited with being instrumental in establishing a chronic aortitis. All conditions inducing high arterial tension must be considered as agencies making for strain of the aortic valves. Such occupations as those of miner, collier, smith, soldier, and the like, undoubtedly predispose to aortic disease. Syphilis, however, must also be admitted as a factor in some of these cases. External violence and strain may, under ex- ceptional circumstances, lead to sudden rupture of an aortic valve. In some of the recorded cases there is reason to believe tearing occurred in a valve already weakened by existing disease. The valvular laceration occurs during severe muscular exertion, and is immediately followed by more or less cardiac pain and distress, and tisually marked dyspnoea. Extensive mechanical defects often result from malignant endocarditis. The abundant llocculent vegetations may tend to occlude the orifice, or the formation of a valvular aneurysm may pro- duce a degree of obstruction, but more frequently extensive ulceration leads to a rapidly established incompetence permitting of free regurgitation. Maldevelopment or disease during intra- uterine life is a rare cause of aortic disease. It is well to note that it is by no means rare to find a thin fringe of fine bead-like vegetations in a rheumatic case along the ventricular aspect of the cusps, which during life had presented no clinical evidences of mechanical deficiency. Chronic aortitis is one of the most prolific agencies by which aortic valvular disease is produced. From the clinical point of view the actual form of aortitis is of comparatively little importance. Most frequently it is of an athero- matous variety. The aortitis deformans may lead to incompetence without directly involving the valve segments by producing dilatation of the aorta, and ultimately an increase in the size of the aortic ring, but often there is also stiffen- ing and thickening of the cusps. Reference may here be made to a special form of aortic disease leading to a certain degree of incompetence, and usually producing consider- able impairment of the cardiac nutrition by narrowing the orifices of the coronary arteries. The condition involves most markedly the aorta immediately above the valves. It consists of a chronic localised aortitis, and occurs usually in patches, the borders having often an undulating or serpiginous outline very suggestive of a VOL. IV syphilitic process. In the cases we have ex- amined, however, no very distinct syphilitic lesions could be detected elsewhere in the body. In the case of a young woman where this con- dition existed, and where angina pectoris was a prominent symptom, pelvic inflammation had existed, and there were other reasons to believe syphilitic infection had occurred. Morbid Anatomy.—Brief reference may be made to the lesions found :—■ 1. In Aortic Incompetence.—In cases of aortic regurgitation due to chronic endocarditis and sclerosis of the valve segments, conditions are found which in most instances are the result of an association of processes. There is also often- times considerable variation in the seat and extent as well as in the predominant character of the morbid conditions. In some instances the portion of the cusp nearest the base of attachment is indurated, and it may be contracted while the remaining j^ortion is practically uninvolved. Here the normal part may be retroverted or doubled backwards towards the ventricular cavity in consequence of the failure of the segments by approximation to sustain the aortic blood-pressure during diastole. Sometimes the segments are merely uniformly indurated. They may be irregularly thickened, puckered, and extensively deformed. Often- times the distortion more particularly affects the free edges of the flaps, which may be rounded and everted or rolled towards the base of the aorta. Occasionally one of the cusps appears as though dragged away from its attachment, and droops ventricle-wards. Adhesions are some- times formed between adjacent flaps, and when these are broken through a large pouch may be formed by the combined cusps. We have met with distinct aneurysmal pouching in a sclerosed valve. In many of the cases where calcification of the valves is a conspicuous feature the aorta is practically healthy. This would seem to in- dicate that the valves had been affected primarily. When of rheumatic origin there is a particular disposition to the deposition of lime salts. In the past there has been too great a tendency to consider calcareous infiltration as evidence of the process loosely termed " atheroma." Where calcification is a conspicuous feature, it is well to observe that the deposit of lime salts is often not limited to the valves, but may be abundant in the infra-valvular portion of the septum and in the anterior segment of the mitral. Incompetence may arise from dilatation of the aortic ring without any distinct involvement of the valve segments themselves. 2. In Aortic Stenosis. — Chronic rheumatic endocarditis is particularly influential in leading to aortic stenosis. Pure cases of aortic stenosis are by no means common, although a certain degree of obstruction