359 IMMUNITY be a fatal dose of diphtheria poison, or, as he expressed it, " of destroying diphtheria poison." In conjunction with Kitasato he afterwards proved the same for tetanus. The transference of immune serum in both cases first confers protection against the specific poison, and thus indirectly against infection with the living virus, for if their poisons are inactive both diphtheria and tetanus bacilli are overcome and destroyed by the natural power of resistance of the body. As the immunising anti-substances are contained in the immune serum they do not require to be formed in the new animal body; in passive immunisation, therefore, the new animal body does not require to undergo any reaction, for the effect is immediately induced. But another difference from active immunisation is the very short duration of the immunity conferred by transference of serum, for foreign serum does not remain long in the body, but is destroyed or excreted within eight to fourteen days. As compared with active immunity, therefore, passive immunity is only a transient one. Passive immunisation has been performed not only in diphtheria and tetanus, but in a series of other infective processes, and has to some extent yielded results of practical value. Again, the active immunity to poison conferred by treatment with ricin, abrin, and robin can be transferred by the serum to other animals (Ehrlich). Ehrlich has also shown in these and other instances that it is not the serum, but the milk, which may be the vehicle for the transfer- ence of antitoxin, and that immunity may thus be transmitted from the mother to the offspring by suckling {vide infra). The transference of blood-serum does not only confer protection from subsequent infection, but, provided the con- ditions are otherwise favourable, it also induces a cure after precedent infection. It is experi- mentally proved that the resulting effect is essentially the same whether we inject a mixture of antitoxic serum and toxin, or inject each of them into different parts of the body, or lastly, whether we inject the sei-um twenty-four hours before the toxin. It is a very different matter, however, if the antitoxic serum be injected subsequent to infection. The greater the delay in the introduction of the serum the more unfavoui-able is the prognosis, the greater is the quantity of serum required, and the more uncertain is the result {vide infra). 1. Mode of obtaining Antitoxic Serum.— According to Behring the animals which are to furnish the serum (horses) are rapidly and safely immunised (a) by using unaltered bouillon cultures of tetanus bacilli—their filtrates are preferable — injecting -^^^h of the minimum fatal dose at first and increasing to double this dose within four weeks ; (6) or, as is better, by starting the treatment with larger quantities of cultures rendered less poisonous by the addition of suitable chemicals, such as iodine terchloride. Behring gives the following special directions for the immunisation of horses: 200 cc. of filtered bouillon culture of tetanus, to which 0"5 per cent carbolic acid is added as a preservative, form the stock material. The toxic value of this culture must be such that 0-75 cc. suffices to kill with certainty an adult rabbit in three or four days. This carbolised culture is divided into four portions : (1) 20 cc. to which nothing further is added ; (2) 40 cc. to which 0"125 per cent iodine terchloride is added ; (3) 60 cc. to which 0'175 per cent iodine terchloride is added; (4) 80 cc. to which 0-25 per cent iodine terchloride is added. At the start 10 cc. of mixture No. 4 is subcutaneously injected into the horse, after eight days 20 cc, after another eight days 20 cc. again, and the remainder three days later. Mixtures Nos. 3, 2, and 1 are then consecutively employed, being administered gradually and at suitable intervals. What Behring regards as essential in this method is not the mere use of cultures whose poison has been weakened by adding iodine terchloride (Vaillard uses solid iodine for the same purpose), but the subsequent employment of highly virulent cultures, or filtrates the virulence of which is vinimpaired, for only thus can a degree of immunity sufficiently high to be of practical value be conferred. Cultures with unimpaired virulence had previously been employed by Emmerich and Vaillard for the production of a high degree of immunity. Behring's improved method is founded on the knowledge that the conferring of immunity is " not a sudden event, but a very gradual process." We may therefore infer "that the degree of immunity is capable of imlimited increase." In the immunisation of the horse, even though the animal has been long under treatment, and has already been highly immunised, each fresh injection of tetanus bouillon gives rise to a reaction with fever, during which the immunis- ing substances hitherto detectable in the urine disappear, and the urine may even contain tetanus poison (Behring and Casper, Brieger and Ehrlich). During this period no blood is to be taken from the animal for curative pur- poses. The former immunising value is not always regained until the eighth or tenth day, but it then undergoes gradual increase. Behring regards the appearance of the feverish rise of temperature during this period of reaction as a very favourable symptom, indicating that the poisons are being rendered innocuous in the body, and unless there be fever a further in- crease of immunity cannot be hoped for. The use of antipyretics in such a case is always to be avoided. Immunisation against diphtheria is also best performed by the use of bouillon cidtures of diphtheria attenuated by the addition of iodine