105 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM So frequently is this the case that one may be pardoned for doubting the statement of the few patients who obstinately deny having had any dyspnoea before they noticed dropsy. Many people seem to have great difficulty in defining their sensations, and yet give a description of sensations that points strongly to there having been among them the feeling that most people would describe as " shortness of breath" or " breathlessness," without having recognised it as " air-hunger," to use the expressive term of the Gei'mans. It is on exertion that the first experience of dyspnoea usually occurs. We shall have, however, to describe certain dis- tressing forms that occur independently of any exertion, but it may be taken for granted that the " windof those who suffer from them is always at fault on exertion. There is no indica- tion of the well-being of a heart to be compared in importance ivith "goodness of wind." If the physician is assured of this he need hardly examine the heart, for "sound wind" and "an unsound heart" may be regarded as incom- patible conditions. Ascent, either of steps or a simple incline, throws a peculiar strain on the heart apparently, and discovers the crippled heart with unfailing certainty. It must be remembered, however, that a man who has followed a sedentary occupation and habiti;ally avoided active exercise, may have " bad wind " without any actual disease of the heart, and simply as the result of his having persistently given the organ the least possible amount of work to do, but such a heart is capable of great improvement under treatment by processes analogous to that employed in athletic training. A man may have a cardiac lesion—say mitral stenosis or aortic incompetence—and yet sufl'er no inconvenience in consequence, so long as he is subjected to no strain ; but he will not ascend a flight of stairs without some degree of dyspnoea over and above that experienced by the average healthy individual; the effort betrays his weak- ness, which without such exertion may be entirely latent, thanks to the vigour of the heart muscle. Breathlessness on slight exertion, then, is the first indication of cardiac failure in general, but in certain cases this is not all, and the patient while at rest in bed during the night is seized —often awakened by—a distressing paroxysm of breathlessness which compels him to sit up and "struggle for breath." This type of dyspnoea is especially apt to occur in cases of Bright's disease and gout—in fact, in cases of muscle failure of the heart in combination with a fairly high degree of arterial tension, and the writer is disposed to believe that associated with such attacks is an abrupt rise of the arterial blood-pressure whereby the heart is seriously embarrassed. Another form of dyspnoea often noticed in similar cases is that in which the stimulus of volition seems necessary to maintain the activity of the respiratory centre, for when the patient falls off to sleep his respiration ceases, and he becomes cyanotic, often showing in consequence slight convulsive movements of the hands. These are soon arrested on his awaking, gasping for breath. Another remark- able type of dyspnoea that comes on during repose is known as Cheyne-Stokes respiration, in which pauses in respiration occur at definite intervals, each one being followed by the resumption of respiration at first with the shallowest of inspirations, which become gradually both deeper and more frequent initil the acme is reached, when the inspira- tions become less deep as well as less frequent, until another pause sets in, to be followed in turn by another series of respirations of ascend- ing and descending type, and so on. This type of dyspnoea is specially common in the heart failure of chronic Bright's disease (granular kidney). It has also been supposed to be associated with fatty heart. During the paroxysm of dyspna-a patients will sometimes spring out of bed at the maximum of their distress. On the other hand, respiration of " ascending and descending" type may occur without any subjective distress of any kind. A rare and often overlooked form of cardiac dyspnoea, if such it can be called, consists of an occasional very deep inspiration or sigh. Long- ago this peculiar sighing respiration was recorded as a sign of "fatty heart." Certainly it belongs to the more obscure cases of cardiac failure, which may terminate by sudden fatal syncope, or which may be revealed by the ordinary symptoms of venous stasis only shortly before the end. The writer cannot say if there has been any stoppage or alteration of respira- tion immediately preceding these deep inspira- tions, which occur after long intervals and apparently in the midst of quiet respiration. 2. Dropsy.—The second cardinal symptom of heart failure, dropsy, is probably invariably preceded for a longer or shorter period by dyspnoea. It is likely, however, that the tissues through which and into which the exudation of serum takes place undergo some nutritive change, which favours the process. This " tissue- element " in the production of dropsy seems to vary in activity, its working being less apparent in cases of chronic valve lesion, as the rheumatic, and most apparent in the dropsy associated with the muscle failure that results from alcoholism. The tendency to tissue degeneration and vaso- motor palsy promoted by this habit is notorious. In the simple rheumatic case the dropsy begins whei'e we naturally expect there being the greatest venous stasis—the lower extremities— and spreads upwards as the conditions that occasion it become intensified. But the di'opsy of the alcoholic heart-case is characterised by- extraordinary caprice both in its first and later