DISEASES OF 532 INTESTINES, gummata have been found, but their presence as a cHnical feature is not estabhshed, a remark equally applicable to acqiiired syphilis. In severe and neglected cases of syphilis, with gummata elsewhere in the body, diarrhoea occurs, and may be due to broken-down gummatous ulcers in the intestine. In such circumstances before arriving at a diagnosis of ulcer the question of lardaceous disease of the intestine, and the possibility of tuberculous ulceration in a syphilitic subject, must be excluded. The treatment of syphilitic ulceration of the intestine is that of the general disease. (4) Catarrhal or Follicular Ulcers. — These are found in inflamed conditions of sufficient severity of the intestinal mucous membrane, and are more common in the large than in the small intestine. They occur either as simple erosions of the mucous membrane apart from the intestinal glands, or as the result of inflamma- tion and destruction of the solitary, Lieberkiihn's, or Brnnner's glands. Both varieties are usually present, it may be in large numbers, in the more severe cases of enteritis. Their presence is usually indicated by blood in the stools. Small ulcers are also found above the site of intestinal ob- struction, but the pathology of them is still doubtful. The treatment of follicular and catarrhal ulcers is that of enteritis. (5) Malignant Ulcers {vide under "Malignant Diseases of the Intestine," p. 533). (6) Hcemorrhagic Ulcers.—In Bright's disease htemorrhage into various organs is liable to occur, and in the intestine the chosen site is under the mucoiis membrane. This submucous hfemorrhage instead of being absorbed may break down and form an intestinal ulcer. Ulcers of the intestines in Bright's disease are usually not single but multiple. As enteritis is not an uncommon complication of kidney disease, it is therefore questionable whether the intestinal ulcers of Bright's disease should be regarded as broken-down submucous haemor- rhages or as catarrhal ulcers occurring in an enteritis complicating the original disease. Both varieties probably occur, and it is also probable that in purpura, scurvy, anaemia, etc., intestinal ulcers of purely haemorrhagic origin develop. (7) Vascular ulcers are either venous or arterial. Whether venous or arterial they depend on defective blood-supply to an area more or less limited, this leading to necrosis of the intestinal mucous membrane and the sub- sequent formation of an ulcer. Venous ulcers occur in cirrhosis of the liver where the portal circulation is impeded, and probably have the same pathology as ulcers of the leg connected with defective venous circulation. Ulcers due to arterial blocking are described. The artery may be occluded in either of the three following ways :— (a) Plugging of the mesenteric vessel or one of its branches by emboli. This variety may complicate a case of endocarditis. The symptoms would probably be intense abdominal pain and tenderness coming on siiddenly, followed, if the patient lives long enough, by bloody stools, tympanites, and peritonitis. {h) The mesenteric artery, or one of its branches, may be the site of thrombosis; or (c) Atheroma may obstruct the lumen, and circulation becomes so defective that numerous ulcers of the mucous membrane result. The pressure of a tumour on a vessel may effect the same result. Lardaceous Disease.—The intestine is affected by lardaceous disease next in fi-equency to the kidneys, spleen, and liver. If it does occur at all, it is extremely rare for the intestine to be the only structure involved; indeed, they do not usually become waxy until the disease is far advanced in the solid organs. The intestine in 30 to 40 per cent of cases of lardaceous disease is affected. Morbid Anatomy.—As in other organs the amyloid changes commence in the small arteries. In mild cases the change is confined to the mucous and submucous coats, the villi being specially affected, but all coats may become involved. To the naked eye the mucous mem- brane presents a glossy translucency, is pale and somewhat swollen, but the iodine test is usually required to settle the question, when the characteristic reaction will be found as spots and lines distributed irregularly over the surface. If the waxy disease is advanced, the mucous membrane may break down and form small ulcers. The small intestine, especially the lower end of the ileum, is the most usual seat of the disease. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptom is diarrhoea with or without haemorrhage. The occurrence of a persistent diarrha^a is usiially the first indication that the intestine has become waxy, and the occurrence of this symptom in a case where other organs are known to be ^^'axy is strong evidence of this. If the stomach is also waxy vomiting may occur, but the possi- bility of the vomiting being uraemic should always be remembered. Abdominal pain and tenderness are rare. Diagnosis. — It is always difficult and often impossible to distinguish lardaceous disease of the intestine from tubercular in a given case where either or both may occur, as in the later stages of phthisis. It is only by consideration of each case in all its bearings that an opinion can be formed. Treatment.—If possible the causative disease should be removed, e.g. syphilis, tubercle suppu- rating joints, etc. In this the only hope of cure lies. In the great majority of cases all we can hope to do is to restrain the diarrhoea by astrin- gents, etc. {vide also " Lardaceous Degenera- tion," vol. v.).