326 HYSTERIA IN CHILDHOOD Pitres, " on nait hysterique, on ne le devient pas," is probably correct. The influence of heredity is perhaps even more marked in the hysteria of childhood than in that of adults, and it seems likely that the appearance of hysteria at a very early age may be determined in some degree by the intensity of the neurotic inheritance. Not only hysteria itself, but epilepsy, migraine, and other neuroses in the parents predispose to hysteria in the child. Alcoholism in the parents seems to be an important factor. But it is often difiicult to discriminate between the results of heredity and the resvilts of environment. Childhood is pre - eminently an impressionable age, and the child who is in constant association with an hysterical mother, or spends its early years in frequent fear of a drunken parent, may perhaps develop hysteria apart from any influence of heredity. More- over, such parents are as a rule but poorly qualified to encourage in their children that control of the will, by the intellect rather than by the emotions, which should be acquired during early life, and the lack of which appears to be at the root of some at least of the mani- festations of hysteria. The frequency of rheumatic heredity is also very noticeable. Apart from chorea, the children of rheumatic families seem to be specially prone to minor functional neuroses, and in a consider- able nimiber of the cases of hysteria in childhood there is a family history of rheumatism. A tendency to hysteria is often fostered by the atmosphere of home life. In particular the solitary child who has to pass its early years in the society of adults, and scarcely ever associates with other children, not only becomes self- centred, and acquires those habits of intro- spection which are so conducive to hysteria, but too often suff'ers from excessive attention; its trivial ailments and injuries receive an exaggerated sympathy, and its precocity is a constant theme of admiring approval. The influence of school life as an exciting cause of hysteria is a point of considerable practical importance. It has happened re- peatedly that the onset of the hysterical condition in a child has occurred just at the time when school examinations were at hand, and there is abundant evidence that the pressure of school work, especially the keen competition of examinations in the present day, does act deleteriously upon children of nervous tempera- ment. Chorea, sonmambulism, fjiecal incontinence, and migraine ai-e certainly in some cases closely related to the mental strain of school work, and there can be little doubt that school work, in the same way, may be the exciting cause of hysteria. But apart from the mental strain, there are some children upon whom school has a harmful effect for an entirely different reason. These are the extremely timid children to whom school is a daily misery, not because they dis- like or are unable to do the work, but because they cannot shake off a fear of the teacher, or in some cases a morbid shyness, which makes all association with strangers, even with class- mates, a trial to them. School punishments also, especially corporal punishments, have been the exciting cause of hysteria and other functional neuroses in child- hood ; such severe symptoms as hysterical convulsions have been caused in this way. It is most important in this connection that it should be realised that one of the earliest manifestations of the hysterical temperament in children is sometimes a condition closely re- sembling moral insanity. The child is volatile and passionate, perhaps rude or even vicious, and may be almost unmanageable; as such it is in continual disgrace, and is apt to be severely punished. In these children injudicious punishment does nothing but harm, and may bring on a troublesome outbreak of hysteria. Fright is an occasional exciting cause of hysteria; and this is hardly to be wondered at, for the effects of fright on young children are often very profound, and the wilful frightening of children, whether in punishment or in jest, is a cruelty which cannot be too strongly condemned. Sensationalism is also an exciting cause of hysteria in children. The thrilling ghost story, the still more unwholesome spiritualistic seance, which in one case recorded by Charcot produced severe hysterical symptoms in three children in one family—such things are full of danger for the child with hysterical tendencies. And one cannot pass over the influence of sensational religionism—a very different thing, be it ob- served, from religion ; no small number of cases of hysteria in childhood have occurred in schools, especially convent-schools, or other institutions in which the children were exposed to this un- wholesome influence. Traumatism plays quite as prominent a part in the hysteria of childhood as in that of adults. In the best authenticated case of hysteria at the age of 18 months which has been recorded (Gillette), transient hysterical paralysis of both arms was apparently due to a very slight traumatism of one arm. Depressing influences and possibly toxic con- ditions are also occasional causes of hysteria in children. In one child under the writer's care the strain of watching by a sister's deathbed was followed by intermittent hysterical spasm of some of the cervical muscles, and in several cases the onset of hysteria followed immediately after influenza. Some writers have laid much stress upon masturbation as a cause of hysteria in child- hood, and it seems likely that the concomitant excitement and subsequent depression may aggravate hysterical tendencies ; but it has to