426 INFLUENZA pluvioso et sereiio coelo, peragravit hasce omnes Europfe regiones, et omnia loca indiscriminatim." Nor do overcrowding, want of ventilation, and other sanitary shortcomings seem to favour the spread of this disease. In the epidemic of 1889-90, as observed in Dublin, influenza spread as early and as quickly through the suburbs as it did through the crowded streets and alleys of the city. This is in marked contrast to the behaviour of such infective diseases as typhus, small-pox, scarlatina, and measles. Several writers advance the view that influenza is not so much a miasmatic as a miasmatic - contagious disease. Thus, Dr. P. Duflocq, chef de clinique in the Faculty of Medicine in Paris, concludes an elaborate article on the clinical varieties of influenza observed in that city in December 1889 and January 1890, with these words:—"La grippe semble done etre une maladie a la fois epi- demique et contagieuse, et la periode d'incuba- tiou serait de deux jours." According to this view the influenza germs produce their toxic effect chiefly by direct transmission, but also through the air outside of the human body. A third school regards the disease as essen- tially and exclusively contagious, that is, trans- missible from the sick to the healthy just as typhus, or scarlatina, or measles, or small-pox is. According to this doctrine influenza spreads from person to person directly or indirectly. The most usual mode of infection is by direct contact with those ill of influenza. Bvit there is some evidence to show that healthy persons who have been in attendance on influenza patients may carry the infection to others while remain- ing well themselves. And, again, instances are recorded in which the disease has been spread through the agency of inanimate objects such as baggage, furniture, and even food - stuffs. Biiumler, for example, says that the first case of influenza in Basle occurred in a person who had been engaged in unpacking a bale of mer- chandise, which had recently arrived from the gi'eatly infected Magazine du Loiivre in Paris. Finkler, who quotes this observation, also narrates the following incident:—" An officer of the ship La Bretagne, which was anchored in December 1889 in the harbour at Brest, became ill at his home in Brest on 11th Decem- ber, three days, it is said, after the arrival of a number of packages from Paris, which were first unpacked by the officer. These packages then carried the disease to his ship, while the vessels Borda and Austerlitz, which were anchored beside this vessel, are said to have escaped the infection." So long as the miasmatic or pandemic view of the origin of influenza was entertained, there was no need to seek for a period of incuba- tion, the virus being supposed to bo already " hatched " at the time of its reception into the liuman system—that is, at the time of infection. It was indeed even then observed that in most cases there was an appreciable interval between the reception of the poison and the development of the symptoms, the most common duration of this interval being one to three days. We now know that this is a true period of incubation. In the last decade a vast amount of evidence has accumulated as to the communicability of the disease, and the latent or incubative period has been determined at two days on the average. Dr. Dawson Williams considers that the usual duration of this period is probably two or three days. This agrees with Dr. Parsons' estimate exactly. Sometimes the symptoms of an attack seem to develop almost simultaneously with exposure to infection. In one instance, observed by the writer, a lady visited a friend ill of influenza at 2 p.m. Three hours later she was attacked with symptoms of the disease—chills, weakness, coryza, lacrymation, stuffing of the nostrils, loss of smell and of taste. Dr. George Neale of Cadoxton, Glamorgan, in his own case, had a rigor an hour after visiting his first influenza patient. On the other hand, the period of incubation has been prolonged to several days, although a duration of latency exceeding seven days must be regarded as most exceptional. In considering the effect of an epidemic of influenza upon the public health, we are, unfor- tunately, at a serious disadvantage in having no system of registration of disease in the United Kingdom. Experience of recent outbreaks, however, shows that, with the coming of in- fluenza, the whole " epidemic constitution"— to use Thomas Sydenham's classic phrase— changes rapidly for the worse. The power of resisting disease is lessened among a people smitten with this plague, and extreme languor with prostration passes over the population like a destructive tidal wave. The writer's observations on the epidemic of 1889-90 in Dublin extended over a period of nearly three months, from early in December 1889 up to the end of February 1890. The two earliest cases which came under his notice dated from Thursday and Friday, 5th and 6th December. One of these two patients consulted him on Monday, 9th December, having been ill from Thursday the 5th. He was a clergyman, aged fifty-two, in whose case the prominent symptoms were headache, tender eyes, palpita- tion, insomnia, and loss of strength. The out- break was at its height in the first half of the following January. Towards the close of that month its epidemic prevalence waned quickly, but in the middle of February a recrudescence occurred. The following conclusions are justified by the facts :— 1. The epidemic of influenza was more per- nicious to the population of Dublin than the extreme cold of January 1881. 2. It slew its victims, not so much directly,