66 HEART—EMBRYOLOGY, COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF origin and development of the organ, as well as particulars in its comparative and essential anatomy and physiology. It is, therefore^ pro- posed to state as clearly and as shortly as possible such points in the embryology, com- parative anatomy, essential structure, and func- tions of the normal organ, as are calculated to explain its behaviour when diseased, disordered, or malformed. The Embryology of the Mammalian Heart. —Of the three layers of the germ, the ectoderm, the mesoderm, and the endoderm, whence all parts of the organism are derived, it is the meso- derm which contributes chiefly to the formation of the heart. The endocarclial lining of the organ is alone derived in all probability from the endoderm, which, however, as the " endo- thelial heart," is a very distinct structure in early foetal life. The cerebro-spinal nerves, which ultimately penetrate and permeate the organ, are alone derived from the ectoderm, while recent research has confirmed the correct- ness of Remak's belief that the sympathetic ganglia spring from the mesoderm like the muscular, vascular, parenchymatous, and peri- cardial constituents of the heart (Paterson, Phil. Trans. B, London, 1890). While these three sources are welded into the imity of a whole in this organ, as throughout the body, there is thus a largely preponderant community of origin between the muscle, vessels, sympathetic nerves, parenchyma, and peri- cardium of the heart. The embryonic heart in the mammal is at first a bilateral tubal organ placed at the cephalic extremity of the medullary groove, which coalesces by fusion into a single tube, and finally emerges from development as the unified though bipartite heart of completed manmialian growth. At a very early stage the embryonic heart, which continues throughout essentially a single tube, acquires the property r, u. F, e. tn Fia. 1.—The endotlielial heart .seen in proHIe (Hi.s). A.h. aortic bnlb; r, fretum Hallori; v. ventricle; C.tt. auricnlar canal; V.j. jugular vein; V.cd. cardinal vein; V.o.m. omphalo- meseraic vein; V.v. nmbilical vein. of 1-liythmical pulsation. As it grows length- wise it accommodates itself to the somewhat confined space destined for it, by bending upon itself. Early in development, also, the heart of the amniote embryo, whether human or other, not only exhibits this accommodative bending,, but also shows variations in its diameter which indicate its division into auricle, ventricle, aortic bulb, and the channels which unite these portions. The earliest indication of the cardiac apex is given by the bending and close apposi- tion of the ventricular portion of the tube, best seen in the inner or endothelial heart, while as yet the auricular and aortic portions are at some distance from the ventricular, and separated from it by the auricular canal and so - called fretum Halleri. These connecting channels are the sites of the future valves. With this con- tinued growth of the organ the auricular portion assumes a bipartite configuration, and of this portion of the still single chamber the right division is the larger. A similar indication of division in the ventricvUar portion is now seen, and of these still communicating divisions the left is the larger. At this stage the aortic bulb turns towards the middle line and upwards, sO' that the rest of the aorta proper comes to lie' between the two auricles. With these variations in external configura- tion certain internal changes are gradually associated. Septa arise from the roof and floor of the aiu'icular portion, which ultimately com- pletely divide this part into two distinct chambers. A septum likewise springs from the floor of the ventricular portion, which finally erects a complete partition and brings into being two distinct ventricles. With this septal division, a valvular demarcation has gradually associated itself, and the chambers of the once common cavity are shut oflf, not merely auricle from auricle and ventricle from ventricle,, but the corresponding chambers to the right and left from each other by means of the auriculo- ventricular valves. While the heart is still a comparatively un- differentiated tube, its aortic bulbar end is in connection with a bilateral system of five aortic arches, the obliteration of some portions of which and the persistence of others finally constitute the adult mammalian arterial system. The obliteration of the right and left first and second arches, and of a portion of the stem between the third and fourth, leaves the per- manent channels of the internal and external carotid arteries; while the obliteration of the whole of the right fifth and of the stem connect- ing it with the right descending aorta, leaves the fourth right arch to constitute the right subclavian artery and its branches. The foiu'th left arch remains as the permanent transverse and descending aorta, while the fifth left arch forms the ultimately obliterated ductus arteriosus. The persistent stems between the right and left third and fourth arches remain as the common carotid arteries. From a septation and division