175 HEREDITY parents, the blending being more like the mingling of two pigments than the inter- weaving of warp and woof. Or it may show an exaggeration of the characters of one parent, often with little apparent realisation of the peculiarities of the other. These two cases correspond to blended and exclusive inheritance in ordinary mating within the same breed. But the h\'brid may in other cases be very different from either parent, and exhibit features which appear to be novel, or seem interpretable as the reassertion of the characteristics of a remoter ancestor. In short, it may show either a new variation or a reversion. Perhaps the most extraordinary fact is that at least two of these different modes of inheritance may be illustrated in one brood or litter of hybrids. From another point of view we may express the facts in terms of the quality of prepotency. It seems certain that in respect to certain characters the paternal inheritance is often more potent—more capable of finding expres- sion—than the maternal, or vice versa; thus in man the father tends to be prepotent in the matter of stature, and breeders give many in- stances where certain, even trivial, characters of the sire or the dam reappear persistently in the offspring irrespective of the nature of the other parent. If, as Ewart and others maintain, this quality of prepotency tends to be developed by inbreeding, it may be frequent in nature, especially among gregarious and isolated grovips, and it may explain the persistence of new varia- tions in their incipient stages. It is interesting to note Reibmayr's thesis that the evolution of a successful human race implies alternating periods of dominant inbreeding and dominant cross-breeding. The former gives fixity to char- acter, the latter averts degeneracy, and stimulates those new variations whicli form the raw material of progress. Until more precise data accumulate in regard to blended, exclusive, and particulate inheritance, it will not be possible to simplify the matter with any security, but attention may be directed to Weismann's theoretical suggestion of a germinal struggle in the arcana of the germ-cells, a struggle in which the maternal and paternal contributions may blend and harmonise, or may neutralise one another, or in which one may conquer the other, or in which both may persist without combining. Finally, in this connection, we must note that while it is a matter of observation that there are great differences in the degree in which offspring resemble their parents, it is a matter of conjec- ture that lack of resemblance must be due to incompleteness in the inheritance. Indeed, the fact that the resemblance so often reappears in the third generation makes it probable that the incompleteness is not in the inheritance, but simply in the expression of it. The characters which seem to be absent, to " skip a generation " as we say, are probably part of the inheritance all the time, but they remain latent, being neutralised, silenced (we can only use metaphors) by other characters, or unexpressed because of the absence of the appropriate stimulus. A neglect of this distinction is a frequent source of misunderstanding. Filial Regression.—From generation to genera- tion there is a tendency to keep up a specific average. " The large," Galton says, " do not always beget the large, nor the small the small; but yet the observed proportion between the large and the small, in each degree of size and in every quality, hardly varies from one genera- tion to another." Tliis is partly due to natural elimination, weeding out the extraordinary and the abnormal, often at or even before birth. But it is to be primarily accounted for by what Galton calls "filial regression." Karl Pearson gives a clear illustration : — take fathers of stature 72 inches, the mean height of their sons is 70'8, — a regression towards the mean of the general population : on the other hand, fathers with a mean height of 66 inches give a group of sons of mean height 68'3 inches,—again nearer the mean. " The father with a great excess of the character contributes sons with an excess, but a less excess of it; the father with a great defect of the character contributes sons with a defect, but less of it." As Galton puts it, human society moves as a vast fraternity. The sustaining of the specific average is not due to each individual leaving his like behind him; it is due to a regression which tends to bring the offspring of extra- ordinary parents nearer the average of the stock. In other words, children tend to differ less from mediocrity than their jjarents. This big average fact is to be accounted for in terms of that genetic continuity which makes an inheritance not dual but multiple. A man is the prodtict not only of his parents, but of his ancestry, and "luiless very careful selection has taken place, the mean of that ancestry is probably not far from that of the general population." Pearson continues, " It is the heavy weight of this mediocre ancestry which causes the son of an exceptional father to regress towards the general population mean ; it is the balance of this sturdy commonplaceness which enables the son of a degenerate father to escape the whole burden of the parental ill." Laiv of Ancestral Inheritance.—Perhaps the most important general conclusion which has yet been reached in regard to inheritance is that formulated in Galton's law of ancestral inheritance, to which this authority was led by his studies on the inheritance of human faculties, and more particularly by a series of studies on Basset hounds. According to Galton's law, " the two parents between them contribute on the average one-half of each inherited faculty, each of them contributing one-quarter of it. The four grandparents contribute between them one-