HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 113 as a third. The comparatively slow pulse of aortic stenosis probably belongs to a diiferent category, and within limits may be a physio- • logical adaptation. Congenital bradycardia, too, must be regarded apart. Failui'e of the cerebral circulation is the striking feature of these rare cases in which manifestations occur on the arterial side—syncope, epilepsy, and distressing " cerebral " sickness being common among them. These symptoms are best developed in cases of simple muscle failure. Patients with aortic in- competence, again, may have extremely developed physical signs of their disease, and suffer much from dyspnoea and palpitation, without any development of dropsy or engorged liver, and they may go on in this condition for years. But even when this has been the case, the two lacking cardinal symptoms may become de- veloped with great rapidity and in great intensity during the last few days of life. Between these two conditions an intermediate one may be quite unexpectedly produced, the features of which will be best described by an illustration. A man in early middle life, who had free aortic regurgitation, the result apparently of strain, and suffered severely from dyspnoea on exertion and anginal seizures on any effort, though he had never had dropsy or engorged liver, went to his work as usual one morning. Soon after he had commenced his work severe dyspnosa set in, and in spite of rest and careful treatment from the outset of the attack (it occurred in hospital, the patient being an employe), became more and more distressing, while signs of con- gestion of the lungs developed, with physical signs, for the first time, and the patient died towards evening, the post-mortem revealing, besides the aoi-tic lesion and a dilated left vent- ricle, intense congestion of the lungs. Who can doubt that had this patient survived longer the lacking cardinal symptoms — dropsy and engorged liver—would have been speedily pro- duced, and thus the case would have been brought into the ordinary category of chronic heart disease? The writer, in a case of aortic incompetence, was once struck, on feeling the patient's pulse, with the extraordinary length of intermissions that were recurring from time to time, and a few hours later the patient quite suddenly died, without any noticeable alteration of his condition. Can we doubt that an inter- mission, during which the relaxed ventricle would be exposed to the forcible rush of blood resulting from arterial recoil, overbalanced itself, so to speak, in such a way that it was unable to recover? And if this may happen in aortic incompetence, may it not also happen in cases of simple muscle failure, in which an intei-- mission has tarried too long ? Nay, even in the healthy lieart may not the physiological inter- mission of cerebral inhibition occasionally pass beyond the point from which recovery can take place ? VOL. IV Lastly, the justification for the old view of sudden death from spasm of the heart must be considered. After death in cases of the kind the cavities of the ventricles are found obliter- ated, except the small supra - papillary space which contains blood. This occurrence cannot, however, be definitely associated with sudden death, after which flaccid ventricles are com- monly found, and it may be that the tetanic contraction of the ventricles occurs only after their paralysis has brought the circulation to a standstill and the organism to somatic death. The one condition is quite as lethal as the other, and it is obvious that their effects will be practi- cally the same as far as the circulation is concerned. It is a well-known fact that, in a disease usually regarded with so little apprehension as antemia, sudden fatal syncope may occur. Nay, even when the heart, as far as we know, is in perfect health, profound nervous impressions may induce fatal syncope, for the cause of which the most skilled and careful pathologist will look in vain, and such cases have occurred in young subjects. In most cases, however, of apjmrently appallingly sudden death, clear indi- cations of cardiac failure have been present for a considerable time, though probably known only to the patient, who, ignorant of their significance, gave them no heed. When a man drops down dead in an assembly or in the sti'eet, it will often be that the ti-ansition from health to death has really been a very much longer process than it often is in pneumonia or malig- nant scarlet fever. It is, indeed, the latency of the disease rather than the suddenness of its termination that is remarkable. Rupture of the walls of a flabby heart or of a cardiac aneurysm are of course well-known causes of sudden fatal syncope, and it may be well to note that convulsion, from suddenly produced cerebral auiemia, is a common manifestation of the sudden failure of the heart's action in cases of the kind. Angina pectoris, with which we have nothing to do here, is a subject closely related with that of sudden fatal syncope, and in the writer's belief has its anatomical basis in disease obstructing the coronary vessels. These brief remarks must suffice to indicate the few cases of heart disease that prove fatal without the development of venous stasis, a con- dition which would seem only to have been anticipated, and thus to have been given no opportunity for development. A note may here be made of rare cases of mitral stenosis that prove fatal from bronchitis and engorgement of the lungs without the development of dropsy. The liver under the circumstances usually affords indications of venous stasis. Malignant Endocarditis A short account must be given of the sym- 8