202 HERNIA to be enveloped in a firmer and more fibrous sheathing than the vein, and when the cica- tricial obliterative process ensues, the scar formed around them is correspondingly more resistant and tougher than that arovind the thin-walled vein. Kocher has described two forms of hernia occurring at the umbilicus in adult life: an oblique, which descends along the canal of Richet, lies between the fascia of Kichet and the linea alba, and escajjes at the navel; and a direct, which passes immediately outwards at the level of the umbilicus. So far as I am aware, the only author who has verified Kocher's description of the oblique form is Jaboulay, and that only in a single case. It was taught by Petit, Scarpa, and many other surgeons, that an umbilical hernia did not escape at the umbilicus, but through an adjacent opening, either above or below, but more commonly above. It is not improbable that some of the examples of so-called "um- bilical " hernia are in reality cases of ventral hernia through the linea alba (adombilical). Signs and tSyinjitoms.—This form of rupture is usually the prerogative of the corpulent. Women, especially those who have borne children, ai-e affected far more frequently than men. In 775 cases collected by Macready, 566 occurred in women, and 209 in men. The rupture appears very gradually, and may for a time j^ass unnoticed ; it forms at first a smooth, globular, painless swelling. AVith in- creasing size it becomes irregular in shape; sulci appear and divide the mass into lobules of varied size. Such depressions are due to adhesions of the contents to the sac wall. The coverings of the hernia are always thin, but increasing distension from within and the chafing of clothes upon the surface may cause them to ulcerate and very occasionally to give way. The swelling, when large, is pendulous and pedunculated. The umbilical scar, stretched and considerably altered in appearance, is seen usually upon the lower half of the swelling. A ruptui'e of even moderate duration is almost without exception irreducible. The omentum is always a content of the sac and generally lies anteriorly ; this fact accounts for tlie lobu- lated iri'egular feel that most herniic possess, and for the frequency of the irreducibility. The sympt07ns of an umbilical hernia are, as Sir Astley Cooper first said, more pronounced than in any other common variety of rupture. I'ain, flatulence, vomiting, and intestinal irregu- larity are certainly more frequent, and tender- ness of the hernia is decidedly more pronounced. Incarceration is oftener seen than in any other rupture. Strangulation does occur, but not so frequently as is generally supposed ; when present, it is genei'ally the outcome of, and the final event in, a somcwliat ])i'olonged obstruction. Treatment. — In the early stages, when the hernia is small and perhaps reducible, the best support is obtained from a broad, sufficiently strong, and well-made abdominal belt with a large round shield to cover the umbilical area. If the hernia is of old standing, large and irreducible, a truss with a pad of chamois leather will be needed. The circumference of the bag must consist of an oval plate, and the bag should be made of a depth rather less than that of the hernial bulging, so that a very slight degree of pressure may constantly be exerted upon the rupture. In addition, careful attention must be paid to the diet, and the patient, if inclined to obesity, should endeavour to effect a redaction in the body weight. But an umbilical hernia, however rigidly cared for, is a constant source of danger, and therefore, whenever possible, and whenever safe, an opera- tion should be advised. The general condition of those who suffer from this form of hernia, however, is not as a rule veiy satisfactory. They are persons of indolent habit, loose-bodied and flabby, and they do not readily brook surgical intervention. If, however, there is no definite hindrance, it is probable that there is more security in operation than in the treatnjent by trusses. Umbilical herniai are especially apt to become incarcerated, and the mortality of operation in times of stress is, as we have seen, considerable. The cases for operation miist of course be selected with considerable care, but when so selected there is no reason to suppose that the mortality is unusually large. Operation. — If the swelling be large, two incisions enclosing an ellipse of skin will be made, and the superfluous skin removed. On opening the sac the bowel will be returned and the omentum removed. In order to effect a satisfactory and permanent closure of the opening, it is advisable to stitch the abdominal layers up separately. This procedure I generally carry out in the following manner. The peritoneum is first stitched up with a continuous layer of catgut. The inner rounded margin of the rectus sheath on each side is then divided for the whole length of the wound by a vertical incision midway between the anterior and posterior surfaces,, until the muscular fibres are reached. Then the posterior part of the sheath is stitched to its fellow across the middle Hue by a series of interrupted silkworm-gut sutures. Similarly the muscle-fibres of the two recti are stitched, and afterwards the anterior layers of the sheaths. Finally, the skin and subcutaneous, tissues are closed in the usual manner. Tiierc are thus five layers of sutures, and four of the layers are biu-ied. For the buried stitches I prefer silkworm-gut, which can be effectively sterilised, but kangaroo tendon or strong cln-omicised catgut answers very well.