191 HERNIA Changes in the Bowel above and heloiv the Hernia.—The bowel above the hernia becomes distended to a degree dependent in part upon the duration and severity of the obstruction. Certain changes occur in it, which have been carefully described by Kocher. The bowel be- comes blue in colour from venous stasis, ecchy- nioses may form in the mucous membrane or beneath the serous coat, nutrition is altered and the protective influence of the epithelium is de- stroyed. Absorption of bacteria and of the toxic products of the intestinal contents begin from that moment, and the patient, unless relieved, may die either from general intoxication with symptoms of weakness of the heart and collapse, or from local intoxication with necrosis of the mucous membrane, beginning in the ecchymosed patclies and going on speedily to ulceration and perforation. The Symptoms of Strangulated Hernia.—The symptoms of strangulated hernia are very similar to those of acute intestinal obstruction. The first occurrence noticed is the forcible descent of a larger mass of hernia than is usual, or the decided increase of a rupture that is irreducible. This accession of bulk is attended with ^jam in the hernial swelling, chiefly at the upper part and in the abdomen near the umbilicus, at first and for a brief period intermittent, but soon becoming and remaining continuous. The pain is very acute, with exacerbations of a colicky nature; it causes the patient to be bent double, to sweat profusely, to become collapsed and faint, and it rapidly induces nausea and vomiting. Vomiting is the chief and most important symptom. It is unvarying, distressing, and exhausting. At first the stomach is emptied, then the duodenum, the vomit being bile-stained ; finally, the decomposing and foetid contents of the distended gut above the obstruction are ejected. So pungent and putrid is this vomit at the last, that it is described as " faeculent" or " stercoraceous," implying that fseces are con- tained in the vomit. This is rarely, if ever, the case, the odour and appearance being in fact caused by the bacterial profusion in the over- distended bowel. Hiccough is sometimes present, and is an untoward symptom. The temperature as a rule is subnormal; the pulse is rapid, thin, and wiry. Constipation is absolute and per- sistent : enemata may empty the bowel below the obstruction, and a little "flatus" accidentally introduced by the syringe may be passed, but neither fluid nor solid leaves the hernial sac. Even in partial enterocele the same completeness of obstruction is observed in the majority of the cases, as the result it may be of reflex paralysis of the gut, or of kinking at the hernial orifice. In others there may be the passage of flatus and occasionally of the liquid contents of the gut. The abdomen is generally a little prominent, is very rigid and tender on pressure. No dis- tended or contracting intestinal coils can be observed. The appearance of a patient suffer- ing from strangulation is generally characteristic. There is at first an unhealthy almost livid flush- ing of the face, soon giving place to pallor with shrinking and " drawing " of the features, and a fixed and meaningless staring of the eyes. The face and limbs are covered with a sweat, and feel cold and clammy to the touch. There is a tinge of blueness in all the skin. The expression of the face becomes anxious, and speaks of terror and impending disaster. The body looks, and is, desiccated, shrivelled, parched for lack of any water. The tongue is dry, harsh, and brown : thirst is intolerable. The urine is diminished in quantity, and indican may be present. In cases of intense strangulation of the small intestine, albumin may also be foiind. Accord- ing to Englisch it is present in two-thirds of the cases operated upon, and is a sign of some im- portance. The symptoms of toxic poisoning are seen in their most striking form, and in a state of gradually deepening collapse the patient dies. 2^he Signs of Strangulated Hernia. — The hernial swelling is larger, often considerably larger, than is usual. It is tense and hard, and irreducible. There is no impulse on coughing. Manipulation of the tumour is resented, owing to extreme tenderness. If strangulation persists, the surface becomes of a livid or dusky red colour, which gradually deepens until a black slough is formed. Emphysema may be felt, and perforation of the gut and of the skin may in the end lead to the formation of a fajcal fistula. Treatment of Strangulated Hernia.—The hernial contents must be returned within the abdomen at the earliest possible moment. Re- duction may be effected by means of taxis aided by the hot bath or an antesthetic, or by opera- tion. Taxis, unless employed with discrimina- tion and for a brief period, is probably more harmful than operation. False Reduction.—Taxis, if employed without constraint, or occasionally even when judiciously applied, is attended with some risks, such as injury, bruising, or laceration of the sac or its contents, or the forcing of infected fluid into the peritoneum. The most serious accident, how- ever, is that known as False Reduction. I have elsewhere discussed this subject fully ; it is not necessary here to do more than epitomise my conclusions. False reduction may be described as of the following varieties: — 1. Reduction into a sac lying between the peritoneum and the transversalis fascia. This sac has probably received the bowel on many previous occasions. It exists in both the inguinal and femoral regions, forming the special class of hernia known as properitoneal or bilocular or the "displaced" hernia of Bryant. This sac may pass (a) inwards to the bladder, {b) backwards to the iliac fossa, or (c) outwards towards the