522 INTESTINES, DISEASES OF all parts of their circumference. They are the size of millet seeds, and consist of lymphoid tissue. Payer's patches are collections of the above lymphoid nodules arranged together in groups, of an oblong outline. They vary in length from one to three or four inches, are most numerous in the lower part of the ileum, are not found below the ileo-csecal valve, and rarely occur as high as the upper part of the jejunum. They are situated opposite to the mesenteric attachment, and their long axis cor- responds to the long axis of the intestine. These patches are best marked in youth, and after middle age begin to atrophy, and in old age are seen frequently only as pigmentary discolora- tions of the mucous membrane. Typhoid ulcers are the result of their destruction. The arterial blood-supply to the intestine is for the most part derived from the mesenteric arteries, but the duodenum is also supplied by several other branches, notably from the gastro-duo- denal. The branches of the mesenteric artery run transversely below the serous coat, then perforate the muscular coat, and form a close network in the submucosa, which gives oft' branches freely to the vascular mucous mem- brane. Each villus is supplied by an artery which enters it excentrically. In the small intestine the veins accompany the arteries, but in the large intestine the arteries form a mesh- work in the mucous membrane, and the veins return the blood in a manner similar to the blood-vessels of the mucous membrane of the stomach. Anatomically the anastomosis in the intestine is very free. In disease it would appear that under certain conditions the plug- ging of even a considerable branch by, say, a cancerous growth invading the vessel, can pro- duce an annular gangrene of the intestine. The lymphatics or lacteals of the intestine commence as the lymph vessel or space in each villus. These unite with other vessels to freely provide the mucous membrane with a form of plexus in the submucous coat. Another plexus exists between the muscular coats, and these two uniting with the lymphatics under the serous coats on the mesenteric border form larger vessels, which empty themselves into the mesen- teric glands, which again discharge their con- tents into the thoracic duct. The nerves of the intestine are derived from the solar plexus, and more particularly from the superior and inferior mesenteric plexus. The nerves accom- pany the arteries, perforate the muscular coat, and between the two layers form Auerbach's plexus, and in the submucous coat Meissner's plexus. Narrow filaments from Auerbach's plexus supply the muscular coat, and from Meissner's plexus filaments pass into the mucous membrane and the villi, but their ultimate ter- mination is doubtful. The solar plexus from which the nerve supply of the intestine is derived is formed by the great semi-lunar ganglia which receive branches from the splanchnics and vagus. Stimulation of the vagus nerve increases peristalsis, and stimula- tion of the splanchnics inhibits movement if the blood in the intestinal vessels is normal, but if the blood in the intestinal capillaries is venous, the reverse effect occurs. The splanchnic is in addition the vaso-motor nerve of the intestine, and controls the largest vascular area in the body. It is also the afferent sensory nerve. Under Digestion and Metabolism the physio- logical functions of the various structures above enumerated in relation to secretion and digestion of fluids, and absorption of digestive products, are discussed. There the digestion of proteids, carbohydrates, fats, etc., by the various juices and their enzymes, with their subsequent absorption by the vessels, lacteals, etc., of the small and large intestine, is described. Intes- tinal digestion is most active in the small intes- tine, unless perhaps the greater activity of bacteria in the large diminishes the difference. Recent researches on absorption in the large intestine are of some importance clinically. Vaughan Harley's recent work on this subject deserves notice. Among other conclusions based on the experimental removal of the large intes- tine, the following occur :— (a) Carbohydrates are absorbed equally well with or without the presence of the large intestine. (b) Proteids are markedly influenced, 10 per cent less absorption occurring when the large intestine is removed. (c) Fats are split up and absorbed equally well with or without the large intestine. (d) The fseces are greatly increased in quantity (five times). This is principally due to the increased quantity of water, that is to say, a large quantity of water is absorbed in the large intestine. (e) Urobilin is not discovered in the faeces after the large intestine is removed. Urobilin is the product of the splitting up of the bile pigments in the large intestine by putrefactive action, probably chiefly bacterial. Under normal conditions urobilin exists in the large intestine, the ffeces, and the urine, and is recognised by giving a deep pink reaction with a concentrated solution of perchloride of mercury. Excessive increase in the urine and fseces indicates either an abnormal secretion of bile, or increased putrefactive action in the intestine. Thus we expect to find in diarrhoea of a septic nature an increase of this substance in the urine. Bacteria of the Intestinal Tract Before birth the intestinal tract is sterile. The meconiimi for three to seven hours is free from bacteria, or at the most a few cocci are obtainable. In a few hours bacteria make their appearance in abundance, and throughout life the intestinal tract from mouth to anus abounds