HEREDITY 179 were directly affected by the continuous change of salinity. (5) The fact that negroes and Mon- golians are relatively immune to yellow fever has been cited as proof positive of the inheritance of an acquired character. But it may be that the quality of immunity was originally a con- genital peculiarity, which has become dominant in the race by the elimination of those who were not immune. If it be objected that there are cases where a mother rabbit or guinea-pig has been artificially rendered immune to certain diseases, and has had young ones born immune, it may be answered that this is probably due to a kind of infection before birth, some anti- toxin having passed from the mother to the unborn young. (6) The case of supposed modification-inheritance which has attracted most attention is that of Brown-Sequard's guinea-pigs. In a series of experiments ex- tending over many years (1869-1891), Brown- Sequard showed that a partial section of the spinal cord, or a section of the sciatic nerve, was followed after some weeks by a peculiar morbid state resembling epilepsy. The off- spring of the animals operated on were frequently decrepit, and a certain number showed a tendency to the so-called epilepsy. As the original state may also be induced by bruising the sciatic nerve without cutting the skin, or by striking the animals on the head with a hammer, it seems unnecessary to consider the suggestion that the influence on the offspring was due to microbic infection. As a similar state may be induced in the dog by injury to the cerebral cortex, and was said in this case also to reappear in the offspring, it seems that we have not to deal with a peculiarity of the guinea-pig alone. As the epileptic state does not occur spontaneously in guinea-pigs, we may exclude the possibility of coincidence and the suggestion that captive guinea-pigs are nervously morbid. As the tendency to epileptic fits (which did not last long) was seen only in the offspring of animals which had been operated upon, and was only manifested after appropriate stimulus, especially after irritating an " epileptogenic " zone behind the ear on the same side as the original injury, we may exclude the suggestion that the epileptic tendency was imitative. Brown-Sequard's results have been confirmed by Dupuy (1890), Westphal (1871), Obersteiner (1875), and Romanes (1895); and no contrary evidence has as yet set aside the suggestion of modification - inheritance which the case conveys. On the other hand, it should be noted that the results are very various. In one set of ex- periments (Obersteiner, 1875), out of thirty-two young ones born of artificially epileptic parents, only two showed symptoms of epilepsy. The results in Brown - Sequard's cases were very various,—general feebleness, motor paralysis of the limbs, trophic paralysis resulting in loss of toes, cornea, etc., and only in some cases epilepsy or some similar nervous disorder. It seems fair to say that what was inherited was decrepitude ; the modification was too violent to be a fair case ; it disturbed the whole organism, nutritive and reproductive functions alike, and was thus almost bound to cause abnormality in the off- spring. Although the evidence suggesting the trans- missibility of acquired characters seems alto- gether inconclusive, it may be noted that somatic modifications have enormous individual import- ance. If they are not transmissible, the importance of securing good " nurture "■—both functional and environmental — is rather in- 1 creased than diminished. It has also been pointed out by several naturalists, that although modifications may not be of direct value in evolution (if they are not transmissible), they may be of great indirect value by acting as the fostering nurses or shields of congenital varia- tions in the same direction. Thus, if we suppose swarthiness to become a condition of survival in a given country, there would probably be some inhabitants with a strong natural or congenital tendency in this dii'ection; there would probably be others in whom the congenital variation towards swarthiness was weak and incipient; there would probably be others who had simply a susceptibility to acquired swarthiness ; and I there would probably be others who were per- sistently blonde. The first would in the course of natural selection tend to become in themselves and in their progeny the dominant stock; the last would tend to be rapidly eliminated ; but it is conceivable that those who made up for their lack of natural swarthiness by a great susceptibility to acquired swarthiness would also be very successful; in other words, it is j conceivable that the modification, though never j taking heritable root, would serve as a life- j saving screen until coincident congenital varia- tions in the direction of swarthiness had time to grow strong. The case is hypothetical, but the idea is applicable to realities. Telegony. — The term telegony has been applied to the doubtful, certainly rare, but if true, very remarkable occurrence of cases where an offspring resembles not so much its father as a previous mate of its mother. In other words, telegony is the supposed influence that a male may, through effective impregnation of a female, exert on offspring subsequently borne by the same female to a different sire. To take a simple instance, the race-horse " Blair-Athol " had a very characteristic blaze or white bald face; and it is said that mares which had borne foals to " Blair-Athol" subsequently produced to quite different stallions foals with the " Blair- Athol " blaze. The alleged cases are of much interest, but many of them are ill-authenticated, and others are capable of being differently in- terpreted. At the same time some explanation