502 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS also automatic activities. They do not require any external stimuhis, though, as is the case with hallucinations, they may be determined by circumstances. A sense of silence, of loneliness, far-olF, faint sounds, or sights or smells may occasion them. Both hallucinations and obses- sions occur most seldom when the mind is most stimulated by normal sensorial activities. Their prime character, then, is that they are in some degree fulminating or impulsive. They are sensory or ideational activities which corre- spond more or less to epileptiform motor symptoms. In mania, all manner of suggestions are sprung upon the mind. In obsession it is the same idea, again and again and again. There is another parallelism, then, between an obsession (sensori-ideational) and say verbigera- tion (word repetition, motor). Both are rhythmic or repetitive. Hallucinations of hearing are not obsessions, but a hallucination, such as that of the words "You are a fool," might become an obsession. We limit the term to ideas. Any recurrent hallucination which conveys an idea may become an obsession. But not always, for, if the patient hardly attended to the words, there would be no obsession. That is the last quality of obsession—that it invades the person- ality. The patient accepts the idea as his, recognises it as part of his mind. Obsessions, then, are ideas which are occasioned by automatic cerebral activities, which are repeated with great frequency, and which invade the personality. And there is no end to the variety of them. Many of them are so silly and so irrelevant that we cannot understand their obtaining a foothold in the mind. Others come very near home, so to speak, have an intimate personal reference. But they defy any attempt at classification, for, as Macpherson has it, " there are as many forms of obsession as there are of thought." For the practical physician, however, it is useful to note (1) those which are, in a technical sense, indiffer- ent, and which only bother the patient by their persistence ; (2) those which excite well-marked emotion, and in these the emotion is usually grief or fear (cf. the phobias); and (3) those which suggest some specific line of conduct and tend to become impulses. Of the last, the obsession which besets the true dipsomaniac and the transition into the cori'esponding impulse is specially considered elsewhere {see "Dipsomania") and may be taken as exemplifying the class. Insane impulses, whether preceded by obses- sion or not, are too manifold to be considered in detail. An impulse, in the technical sense, has these charactei'istics :—That it does not require objective stimuli though it may have an appro- priate occasion; that is the persistent (rhythmic); that the patient is impotent to resist it; that satiety follows upon the indulgence of it. The most important perhaps are homicidal or suicidal. Patients who run amuck are often the victims of impulse — feel an irresistible craving to kill people. Sometimes suicide is an almost un- related impidse, occui-ring in patients who are not melancholic and not delusional. Dipsomania, kleptomania, nymphomania, pyromania, are other important forms of impulse. As every one knows, these impulses may occur without any other obvious disorder of the mind. But anything that can enter into the mind of man as a thing to say or to do may become an impulse in the strict sense. A patient may be beset by the impulse to count, to turn the hands of clocks, to imscrew all screws, to look for pins, to put things in the fire, to pour out water, etc. etc. etc. The diseases of the will which appeal most to the public are, of course, those which result in vice or in crime. Drunkenness is treated of in the article " Alcoholism," and dipsomania is specially described. That separateness of treatment illus- trates two aspects of all insane vice. There is the insane impulse, as in dipsomania, due to defective organisation and the development of an excessive susceptibility; and there is educa- tion or habit, as in drunkenness, which fosters the original sin. In sexual perversion and in sexual excess both these factors play a part. In sodomy, in masturbation, and in other such vices, we have often to note a defective organisa- tion of a negative form, comparable to aphobia. Femininism in men, masculinism in women, denote a constitutional aversion to normal love, as well as a perverted desire for the abnormal. Much more important, on the whole, for it is now very common, especially in women, is a simple absence of sexual enjoyment. It is a serious question whether modern culture implies a failure of instincts and capacities essential to the race. Still more does the importance of the subject appear when we realise how often a sexual distaste spoils the happy fellowship of man and wife, and eventually precludes the possibility of a successful home. The fact of such a difficulty is revealed so often in the consulting-room that one is compelled to regard it as a large factor in the troubles of present- day society. The defects of a too prudish up- bringing are in some measure to blame for the vice. Both sexual perverts and married inverts would to some extent be prevented if youths grew up in the belief that sexual desires and feelings were not at all improper, much less wicked, but both necessary and wholesome. In proper form and in appropriate circumstances sexual activities are as essential as are eating and drinking—which is a commonplace that is implicitly denied in our present-day upbring- ing. Excepting in those who will not, or should not, marry, it has become a duty to develop connubial, maternal, and paternal capacity. For the rest society suffers perhaps for a too lenient view of sexual offences. There are very few cases in which punishment of them would not be beneficial. But a wise view of sexual offences