183 HEREDITY What has just, been noted in regard to specific diseased conditions is likewise true of many abnormalities. Polydactylism has been traced through six generations, and Turner notes a case where a shortening or imperfect growth of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger of the left hand was " traceable throughout six generations, and perhaps even in a seventh, and was, as a rule, transmitted alternately from the males to the females of the family." Scores of examples might be given. To sum up this section, we may cite four general conclusions from a recent discussion of the subject by D. J. Hamilton :— (1) There is no evidence proving that diseased conditions of body, excited by external agencies, using the term in its broadest sense, can be transmitted hereditarily through generations. (2) The various hereditary tendencies or predispositions to disease of the hereditary type have arisen as variations in the germ- plasm. (3) These predispositions to disease probably extend far back into the history of the human race, and break out only occasionally in accord- ance with the laws of atavism. [Others would say that the great abundance of presently occurring germinal variations renders it un- necessary to seek for an origin in the distant past.] (4) External agencies are merely the means of bringing them to light. When all is said there remains no doubt that morbid conditions and predispositions are inherited, and against this we have to place the probability that relative immunity is also becoming heritable. In the course of natural selection, keenest during the early years of life, the less immune tend to be eliminated, and the standard is thus raised. But in this struggle, as Reibmaj^r has argued, the most momentous factor is in the external conditions of function and environment, for if these favour the morbid inheritance the organism has to fight a battle with two fronts, which is seldom hopeful. The hope is in the slow increase of constitutional immunity on the one hand and in the securing of wholesome conditions of life on the other. But another side of the problem must not be overlooked, which Haycraft has emphasised in his Dartvinism and Race Progress—If the race eliminates its own eliminators (the disease germs) which have at least helped to make it what it is, or if it becomes no longer susceptible to their eliminative action, what selective agents —^even more discriminating, we may hope—are to take their place 1 An article on this subject at the present date ought to close with a reminder that in regard to many problems of heredity and inheritance we are far from being able to formulate general conclusions, and that the hopeful outlook is not in theorising, but in experiment, in the collec- tion of precisely observed data, and in the skilful use of statistical methods. Hering^'s Theory. See Colour Vision {Theories of Colour Perception). Hermaphroditism. True Hermaphroditism .... 183 Pseudo-Hbrmaphroditism . . .184 See also Generation, Female Organs of {Arrested Developments); Ovaries, Diseases of {Hernia) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Abnormalities, Cleft Scrotum) ; Uterus, Mal- formations of. Hermaphroditism, in the strict and ancient sense of the term—the existence, namely, in the same human being of functionally active testicles and ovaries—has not yet been met with; the name, however, is applied to the cases in which glands anatomically ovaries and glands anatomi- cally testicles have been found in one individual, or, much more commonly, to the cases in which the true sex is masked or rendered dubious by the existence of malformations. There are, there- fore, two distinct groups of cases, the first of which contains the anatomically true hermaphro- dites (hermaphroditismus verus), while the second includes the individuals of doubtful sex (hermaphroditismus spurius). Of these two groups the latter contains by far the majority of the reported cases which have come to the test of the post-mortem room table and the microscope. True hermaphroditism may be of three kinds —lateral, bilateral, and unilateral. Lateral hermaphroditism may be defined as the presence of an ovary on one side of the body and a testicle on the other, and of this it is claimed that some certain cases have been met with. With regard to that reported by Cramer in 18-57, it is stated that there existed a rudimentary uterus and vagina along with, on the right side, a normal ovary, parovarium, and tube; and on the left side a tube, parovarium, and a supposed testicle lying in the scrotal sac. As, however, the microscopical appearances of the last-named body are not given, it is as reasonable to regard it as a herniated ovary. Schmorl's case is better established : it was that of a hypospadiac individual, 22 years of age, in whom, after operation, a small swelling appeared in the left groin, which, when excised, was found to be an ovary ; the patient died, and at the autopsy it was discovered that there was a uterus bicornis, and on the right side a testicle with a rudiment- ary epididymis in the scrotum. Of bilateral hermaphroditismus verus, which may be defined as the presence of both an ovary and a testicle on both sides of the body, it must be regarded as doubtful whether a well-established instance has yet been reported. In Heppner's case, a premature, and, in other ways, malformed infant.