INDIGESTION 386 acute types of indigestion that the question, Which line of treatment is proper for adoption ? comes to be hardest to answer—that the im- portance of recognising the nature of the primary source of the evil ranks highest. For here vicious circles have usually been established. Recurring attacks of simple or acute gastric catarrh have led to chronic inflammatory changes; deficient peptic digestion to intestinal disturbance; diminished absorption of nutri- ment to metabolic error, to anaemia, gout, inertia, and nervous • debility; or inutatis mutandis anaemia, gout, reflex influences, and neurasthenia have induced dyspeptic symptoms. Whether the indigestion precede the other con- ditions, or per contra arise from them, their coexistence aggravates both forms of disease, and direct treatment of the one is often in- jurious to the other. The problem then to be solved is whether it would be best to deal first with the dyspeptic condition or with the more general error. The answer depends largely upon the presence or absence of organic lesion in the gastric mucosa, upon whether the processes of digestion are actually amiss, or only subjectively annoying; whether the general or the local condition is the more important; and upon the greater likelihood of benefiting the one by preliminary attention to the other than vice versa. Alkalies given before meals tend to increase the acidity of the gastric contents after them; dilute mineral acids, too, act conversely. Given with or after food they exactly reverse their actions. The effect, however, of alkalies given with or after food in lowering the acidity of the stomach contents is purely equational, and exactly corresponds in degree and duration to the amount introduced. If sufficient time elapses before emptying of the stomach the decrease may become increase, the presence of the alkali inciting an enhanced secretion of hydrochloric acid. As the secretion of this acid is governed by the force of the exciting stimulus, and displays an intimate connection with the degree and character of gastric acidity present, the introduction of alkalies into the stomach calls for greater secretion of acid, of acids or less. Alkaline drugs, therefore, given to quell acidit}'- in reality serve ultimately to heighten it; acids recommended for hyj^o-acidity are liable to weaken in place of strengthening the already deficient acid secretion. These state- ments only apply when disturbing complications are absent. The therapeutic value of the digestive fer- ments is a disputed matter. Predigested food often proves of great if temporary service; but the exhibition of pepsin, pancreatin, etc., by the mouth most probably exerts less beneficial effect in gastric errors than has been ascribed to it by some. Dilute hydrocyanic acid in small doses frequently repeated, with or without some form of bismuth, often suffices to soothe gastric pain; now and then, if severe in character, morphina or codeina may be required. Instrumental Measures. — Lavage is un- doubtedly of service in certain cases, but its beneficial properties have probably been much exaggerated, and certainly its practice has often been abused. Lavage may be imperative in pronounced dilatation of the stomach, or ex- cessive pyloric stenosis ; in other cases the influence of contemporary treatment, medicinal and dietetic, and the effect upon the psychical centres exerted by the details of the process, require to be eliminated. Where removal of the stomach contents from time to time is not obligatory by reason of some absolute hindrance to their downward passage, lavage if habitual is unnatural, illogical, betokening absence of re- source on the part of the physician, or the induction of a habit contributed to by him. Electricity applied to the surface of the stomach itself, externally over the gastric region, or over the segments of the spinal cord related to it, sometimes produces very beneficial results; but the effects produced by it are of so variable a nature, that actual trial alone can suffice to prove whether it may be of service or not in any particular case. Further allusion to the merits or demerits of these, and of the many other instrumental means of intra- gastric treatment which have been devised, goes beyond the scope of this article. Diet.—It is as important to base the choice of a suitable diet upon the nature of each individual case, as it is proper to modify the lines of medi- cinal treatment upon the same. Too frequently some particular form of diet comes to be recom- mended as a routine practice for all dyspepsias, whatsoever be the type. The favourite diet may vary from time to time, seldom from case to case. Personally the writer has little faith in, and considerable distrust of, the imposition of strict, rigid rules for diet, of restriction within narrow limits as to food, definite, or what is still worse, indefinite in duration. In simple tran- sient catarrh, or in cases of acute gastritis, brief limitation to the simplest food proves excellent. In the majority of the more prolonged cases of in- digestion, and these are the cases which most often call for medical treatment, a longer or shorter course of restriction to a few specified food articles frequently takes the form of punish- ment, and defeats its own object by arousing feelings of repulsion through the constant sameness of the viands permitted, and of depres- sion consequent thereon. Monotony deadens enjoyment, weakens appetite, injures digestive power, while increasing morbid nerve influence. It were more rational to be guided by signs shown by nature, and to endeavour to facilitate the progress towards recovery along natural lines,