INFLAMMATION 416 be called internal. Bacteria act through the agency of their products (chemical substances) technically known as toxines. They may be formed by bacteria within the body, or may be performed and introduced as such into the body, e.g. in poisonous tinned meats. It is to be remembered also that other injurious chemical substances may be produced within the body entirely independently of bacteria, which may act in the same way. This may occur in func- tional disturbances of several of the internal organs, such as the liver, kidney, intestines, etc. These abnormal products of metastasis may be absorbed by the lymph or blood, and set up metastatic inflammations exactly as the toxines of bacteria do. Any noxa, external or internal, in order to cause inflammation must be of a certain degree of intensity. If too severe it will lead to the death of the tissue, and then vital processes are no longer possible. The Phenomena of Inflammation. — The ordinary processes of inflammation as seen in the foregoing experiment and similar lesions may be arranged as follows: 1. Active hypereemia and acceleration; 2. Hypertemia and retarda- tion ; 3. Escape of fluid; 4. Escape of blood corpuscles; 5. Changes in the fixed tissue cells. The cardinal symptoms of redness, heat, swell- ing and pain are appreciable by the unaided senses, and are easy of explanation. The red- ness is due to the greater amount of blood in the part, the heat to the rapid transference of the hotter internal blood to the surface, and an increased flow of blood through the part. It is only seen in external, not in internal inflamma- tions. The swelling is due to the distension of the blood-vessels and the exudation; the pain (to which functional disturbance may be added) to the increased pressure upon the nerve end- ings, to the impeded circulation and nutrition, and partly also directly to the exciting cause or noxa. A closer examination aided by the microscope reveals the other changes just men- tioned which are invisible to the naked eye, and include these coarser microscopic changes. They may be studied in detail. I. Active Hi/percBmia and Acceleration.—The dilatation of the arteries is brought about partly reflexly either by a paresis of the vaso-constrictor nerves or a stimulation of the vaso-dilators, and partly by a direct paralysing action on the arterial and capillary walls and the connective tissues surrounding them. It may pass off without the appearance of other inflammatory phenomena, and the latter may appear without its preceding them. Hence it is not an indis- pensable process, but a more or less fortuitous forerunner of inflammation. II. Hyperemia and Eet'irdation.—The dila- tation of the veins and capillaries follows upon that of the arteries, and increases. Retardation of the blood-current follows upon the accelera- tion. The cause is the alteration of the vessel walls and surrounding tissues, produced by the action of the noxse, especially those tissues in the neighbourhood of the capillaries. These changes will be presently described under the reaction of the fixed tissues. They lead to increased friction between the blood and the vascular walls, so that the red and white cor- puscles escape into the peripheral stream. The blood-plates, which may also fall out, are held by some to be normal constituents of the blood, and by others to come from degeneration and breaking down of the red cells. These processes are practically always observed in all inflam- mations of vascular tissues, and hence may be regarded as essential phenomena of such inflammations. III. Escape o f Fluid.—There is a liquid trans- udation from the blood-vessels similar to the normal lymph transudation, but the fluid differs in amount and composition from the lymph. It is more abundant, more albuminous, and con- tains a greater amount of solids. A deposit of fibrin sometimes occurs. The cause of these differences is the alteration brought about in the vascular walls through the action of the noxa. The normal selective power of the vas- cular walls is not lost, for the altered walls still act as a secreting and not as a mere filtering- apparatus. The alterations in the blood-pres- sure may greatly assist the transudation process, but the alterations in the vascular walls are the primary cause. The exudate infiltrates the fissures of the surrounding tissues and may cause considerable swelling. When it finds its way on to a free surface, such as a mucous or serous surface, it may escape or collect in a serous cavity. Part of it may be absorbed by the cells and other tissues, which may conse- quently show coarse granidation, mucoid, and other degenerations. They may even undergo complete disintegration, and their elementary constituents may dissolve in the exudate. The chemical composition of the fundamental sub- stances in the exudate may also undergo change through their contact with the tissues of the part. The exudate always contains cells, and if it be very rich in leucocytes it is called pus. It may also contain large numbers of red cor- puscles when it is spoken of as hBemorrhagic. The exudate may be taken as a measure of the severity of the inflammation, for usually the greater the severity the greater the exudate, and the more prolonged will the inflammation be. Its amount and character, therefore, de- pends largely upon the nature and degree of intensity of the noxa, but also partly upon the region affected and the condition of the tissues. It is an essential phenomenon of inflammation in vascular tissues, and is never really absent therefrom. While often a useful process, it is by no means always so. When serous it may act a beneficial part by flushing out the injured area and diluting the noxa. This will be advan-