535 INTESTINES, DISEASES OF stages of the disease, when all hope of recovery has passed and the patient's life is rendered miserable by constant suffering, opium or morphia should be regularly given in sufficient doses to secure relief and peace. In cancer of the duodenum with symptoms of stenosis and dilatation of the stomach, lavage gives temporary relief, and gastro-enterostomy will permanently relieve the distressing vomiting and prolong life. Intestinal antiseptics, such as salol, appear to do good, if fever and other symptoms of auto-intoxication are present. For hfemorrhage, turpentine or ergot may be tried. In cancer of the small or large intestine, excision of a limited growth offers the chance of a radical cure, and is in any case the best palliative. Excision of growths of the large intestine has given the best results, and ex- ploratory operations are advisable as soon as there is a reasonable doubt of their presence. If the disease has advanced too far to admit of excision of the growth, an intestinal anas- tomosis performed at the situation most suitable to the particular case will allow of a temporary return to health and remove the obstructive symptoms {vide " Intestinal Obstruction,"p. 552). Sarcoma of the Intestine.—Sarcoma of the intestine is more rare than carcinoma. Few cases have been reported, and it is difficult to estimate exactly how many of the reported cases are true sarcomata, sarcoma, lympho- sarcoma, and lymphoma being confused in the descriptions. Lympho-sarcoma occurs in the intestine in connection with Hodgkin's disease, and may grow to a large size. Sarcoma here, as elsewhere, may occur at an early age, and cases have been reported in children of a few years of age. The infiltration of the bowel rarely produces stenosis or obstruction; on the contrary, the lumen is usually made larger by the growth. Constitutional symptoms and wasting appear early, and death occurs after a shorter illness than in carcinoma. The prognosis and the results of treatment are equally bad. Non-Malignant Tumours of the Intestine. —Adenomata. — Adenomata arise from Lieber- kiihn's or Brunner's glands, and have a typical acinous structure. A considerable amount of fibrous tissue may be found in their matrix when they are fibrous, or they may be myxo- matous and soft. They may be attached to the mucous membrane by a broad base or by a narrow pedicle of variable length. The large intestine is their most frequent site, and con- siderable numbers may be present. Fibroviata.—Fibromata arise from the con- nective tissue of the submucous coat, are always numerous, usually small, and may be either sessile or pedunculated. Myomata and Fihromyomata arise from the j muscular coat, are usually small, and possess a pedicle. I Lipomata and Angeiomata also occur, but are rare. All the above are usually classified as intes- tinal polypi. Clinically these innocent tumours may give rise to no symptoms, or to irregular attacks of diarrhoea, accompanied by htemor- rhage. Their weight may cause invagination or in- tussusception, and if large, they may produce mechanical obstruction. Cases have been re- corded where they have become detached and passed per rectum, making the diagnosis cleai-. Actinomycosis of the Intestines is a rare disease. One mode of infection, i.e. of the deposition and growth of the essential fungus, is through the intestinal mucous membrane. The lesions may occur in any part of the in- testine, but recorded cases point to the large intestine as the most usual site, the caecum and appendix being probably the most frequent. The early lesions consist of small abscesses in the submucous coat, apparent to the naked eye only as indefinite semi-translucent swellings, which, when punctured, contain pus and the small spherules of the fungus. These abscess cavities either rupture into the intestine and form an ulcer, which may heal and leave a puckered cicatrix, or, more usually, infiltrate and destroy the muscular coat, acting as foci of a spreading chronic inflammatory induration, which extends to the peritoneum and causes matting of the surrounding parts, interspersed with small abscess cavities. A palpable tumour is thus formed, which may, and usually does, run a chronic course, tends to involve the abdominal wall and to open externally, but when it does so, fails to discharge pus in quan- tity like an ordinary abscess. In the discharge the characteristic granules are found. The pro- cess is essentially a chronic spreading inflamma- tion with suppuration, which may, by virtue of its situation by extension or metastasis, spread to the liver, kidneys, etc., or may by a fistulous opening communicate with the bladder, stomach, or other part of the intestine. Symptoms are always obscure, and many cases remain doubtful or unsuspected until a necropsy reveals the true natiue of the disease. In the early stages the symptoms are usually those of intestinal irritation and atony—diarrhoea of variable severity and abdominal distension from flatulence. As the disease advances a palpable tumour becomes evident. According to the situation this will resemble an appendix abscess, a sarcoma, etc., and unless it is possible to find granules in the stools, urine, or discharge of the abscess, it is exceedingly difficult to form rn opinion as to the nature of the case. Tempera- ture is rarely elevated, and the course of the disease is strikingly slow unless some complica- tion such as a perforation and peritonitis should supervene. Diagnosis.—Careful search must always be