INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 501 activities of an excessive kind, some hyper- sensibility to specified forms of stimulation. Such excesses of reaction are common in chronic insanities, and it is interesting to note that these are often reversions to childish proclivities —^impulses to break glass, to throw down walls, to scratch smooth surfaces, to tear, and break and spoil things. Many of the insane cannot see anything worth destroying without an im- pulsion to destroy it. Biologically considered, such destructiveness is difficult to explain except as a form of mischievous playfulness which becomes manifest when disease has obliterated the acquired respect for property. Less harmful and more amusing is the tempta- tion to touch and handle everything that catches the eye, to which some of the insane are prone. Either in sensory mania or in chronic insanity the patient may reach out to touch everything he passes that is bright or of an attractive form. It is impossible to keep up a flower garden to which the insane are admitted. A far more important class of impulses, how- ever, is that which includes insane proclivities to crimes and to vices. There cannot be any doubt that immorality is often determined by a morbid sensibility to vicious indulgences—a constitutional excess of temptation,—though we need not, on that accoimt, condone all such failings or expect that they will be " cured " by measures which are milder and which provide less of a deterrent against vice and less of an incentive to virtue than such measures as we adopt with sane offenders. For the luider- standing of these insane temptations the physician may contrast them with the phobias, some of which we have considered. In the case of these, the patient suffers an abnormal a,bhorrence or dread of certain things, while in impulsiveness the balance of feeling is all the other way. The subjects of phobias are not obviously the subjects of insane impulses, but we might compile a considerable list to empha- sise the antithesis. Thus—pyrophobia (fear of fire) and pyromania (the impulse to set afire); gynephobia and anthrophobia or nymphophobia (sexual fear) and nymphomania; dipsophobia (fanatic abstinence, cf. hydrophobia) and dipso- mania ; kleptophobia and kleptomania; agora- phobia and agoramania (the impulse to take to the open fields) ; claustrophobia and claustro- mania (the impulse to take to human burrows); aero- or batophobia (the fear of high places) and aero- or batomania (impulse to precipitation). Violent impulses often beset the degenerate, and, as was said, we cannot call a man degenerate who is of sound moral nature. Degenerates are often moral imbeciles. That is to say, they fail to appreciate goodness, to understand the value of it, even to recognise it when it is exhibited to them, and still more are incapable of being good. Over and above that general immorality they often experience a violent impulse to commit ordinary crimes, and sometimes are impelled to commit horrors over which they gloat. It then becomes a medico-legal point to determine whether the impulse, with or without other symptoms, constituted an insanity. Short of such cases as come into the police court, however, the physician often has to determine the sanity or insanity of a private patient who has been guilty of some misdemeanour. He can only do so by a systematic investigation of the patient's mental functions, including the moral sense, by an inquiry into the heredity of the case, and by noting such physical facts as might betoken or occasion a debased or unstable character. Further, the circumstances of the case must be carefully weighed; for we must remember that in many cases the patient has been subjected to what might be a great temptation even to a sane mind. Impulses of nearly every kind are common in the insane. We may here advert to the danger of mutilations which mostly occur in melan- cholia, in paranoia, and in general paralysis. Sometimes a patient feels impelled to mutilate a neighbour, sometimes himself. Three cases occur to me, all of them patients who were living at home. One of them, who subsequently developed a climacteric melancholia, was beset by the impulse to amputate the penis of her paralytic husband, but refrained, and was sent to an asylum. The second, a puerperal case, had to leave home because of the dread of mutilating her child; and that is a common kind of danger in all puerperal insanity. The third, a lactational melancholic, tried to cut off' her child's hands with a table-knife. Many patients pull their hair out, or try to gouge out their eyes, or lacerate their flesh, or amputate a finger. Attempts at castration or at amputation of the penis are very common in men who entertain sexual delusions or who are greatly tormented by sexual impulses, and often signify masturbation. These self-mutilations are very unintelligible from the point of view of evolution. We have to remembei-, however, that very few people are content to leave their bodies as nature made them, and that barbaric people resorted to many devices to alter their shapes; also that mutilations, especially of sex- organs, were associated with many unenlightened religions. In the insane, impulses are very often the result of obsession—an insane mental process which is closely related to delusions and hal- lucinations, but which is best regarded in association with impulse. An obsession is a persistent and recurring idea which forces itself on the mind and will not be denied. Obsessions cannot always be distinguished from hallucina- tions. The latter are automatic activities in some part of the sensory tracts which spring an unreal perception on mind. Obsessions are