407 INFANT FEEDING Condensed milk should not be used as the only food for an infant, except for very short periods. A very large proportion of the infants fed entirely or almost entirely on condensed milk develop rickets, partly, no doubt, owing to the excess of sugar, but perhaps more on account of the deficiency of fat. Moreover, in the process of condensation the milk has lost its antiscorbutic properties, and the use of con- densed milk is a not uncommon factor in the etiology of infantile scurvy. Proprietary Foods The name of these is legion, and it would be impossible to describe them all in detail. There are few of them which are not occasionally of use, and still fewer which could not be usefully dispensed with. Almost all of them are pre- parations of cereals, and as such, almost all contain starch, but with this important differ- ence, that while in some of them the starch has been partially or completely converted into the soluble carbohydrates, dextrin, maltose, or glucose, in others the starch remains unaltered. It is upon the degree of this conversion of the starch and upon the amount of fat present that the value of any individual preparation chiefly depends. None of the so-called " infant foods " which contain unconverted starch should be given to an infant under the age of six months; most infants are much better without any of these preparations until the age of nine months, and even then only those in which the starch has been partially converted should be allowed. A very serious defect in all these " foods " is the low proportion of fat; some, indeed, scarcely contain any fat at all, and, prepared as they commonly are by the simple addition of water, they are totally unfit for infant food. In some of them this deficiency is to some extent corrected by giving them with diluted milk; but the fat value of the mixture is scarcely greater than that of the diluted milk alone, so that the addition of cream would be necessary to make the fat sufficient. The scurvy-producing tendency of all these feeds is now well recognised, and, indeed, in the majority of the cases of pronounced infantile scurvy which have come imder the writer's observation, the infants had been fed on one or other of these so-called " infant foods." Why they should produce scurvy is less evident; but this much seems clear, that the fault is a negative one rather than a positive: it would seem that in some way the food is " devitalised " in the process of manufacture, as milk is by sterilising, and to a lesser degree by boiling, and that the lack of this "vital element," if one may use such a vague term, is the cause of the scurvy. Here, again, the writer would like to emphasise the fact that weeks, perhaps months, before an infant shows any definite symptoms of scurvy, there may be a condition of cachexia and malnutrition which is as definitely related to the use of these sterilised " infant foods " as is the classical condition with spongy gums and subperiosteal haemorrhages. If, therefore, any of these preparations are to be used for more than a few weeks, an adequate supply of fresh food of some sort should be given; and it may be pointed out in this connection that the addition of only a small quantity of milk, especially if it has been boiled, is not necessarily sufficient to prevent the development even of severe scurvy. The antiscorbutic power of milk is definite, but feeble; and if only small quantities of milk can be given, it may be necessary to supplement it with raw meat juice or lemon whey. Such methods, however, are bvit unsatisfactory at the best, and the need for them should not be allowed to arise. There are very few cases in which any of these proprietary foods should be allowed to become the principal article of diet; and, in spite of all the advertisements, there is not a single " infant food" in the market which can adequately replace cow's milk as a food for infants. With all their very serious faults, however, some of the proprietary foods have their value. Dried milk pre^yarations in particular are often well digested by infants who are quite unable to digest ordinary cow's milk ; some of the best known of these are the Allenbury foods, No. 1 and No. 2, and Horlick's malted milk. These contain no starch, and when diluted with water according to the manufacturer's directions they contain respectively 2 6 per cent, 2*4 per cent, and 1"6 per cent of fat (the latter was obtained when four teaspoonfuls of Horlick's malted milk were added to four ounces of water). The curd produced by the addition of an acid to these preparations is much finer than in ordinary cow's milk, and seems to be easily digested. Such preparations are useful in some cases of gastro-intestinal disorder in infancy, but should only be used as temporary foods. Another milk preparation is Nestle's food, but this diff^ers from the preceding in containing a considerable quantity of unconverted starch, together with some soluble carbohydrates ; it is, in fact, a combination of a milk food and a partially malted cereal food. When diluted according to the directions it is very deficient in fat, containing considerably less than 1 per cent, and the presence of starch makes it wholly unsuitable for infants under the age of six months; after that age it may be useful given once or twice a day to accustom the infant gradually to a starch-containing food. Completely malted cereal foods can be given at a much earlier age than those which contain unconverted starch. Perhaps the best known example of such a preparation is Mellin's food. This contains no starch, and consists chiefly of