268 HYDATID DISEASE due to the absorption of some special toxic con- stituent of hydatid fluid. The toxic substance is capable of producing a great fall of the blood- pressure in the systemic arteries (Roy), and is regarded as a ptomaine (Mourson and Schlagend- hauflen), or as a toxalbumin (Viron). The hydatid rash has been experimentally produced in the human subject by injection of hydatid fluid (Debove), but Graham found almost no disturbance produced by the injection of the fluid into dogs. In the bones hydatid disease is most readily mistaken for sarcoma; but in the former there is a histoiy of long-standing disease, the swell- ing is not pulsatile, and the lymphatic glands are not affected. Prognosis. — Hydatid disease is always a serious condition because of the risk of suppura- tion or rupture of the cyst, the former being the danger of most frequent occurrence. The prognosis varies, however, accoi-ding to the site and size of the cyst, on its degree of adhesion to neighbouring viscera, and on the ease with which it can be reached by the surgeon. Signs of degeneration and death of the parasite are favourable. Prophylaxis.—In a district where the disease is endemic persons should be careful how they handle dogs, and if possible the number of dogs should be reduced to the necessary minimum. Dogs should not be allowed access to the water- supply, all drinking-water should be boiled, and uncooked vegetables thoroughly washed before being eaten. No dogs should ever be admitted to the slaughter-houses, and all offiil containing hydatids should be destroyed, so that dogs may have no opportunity of eating it. The admin- istration of anthelmintics to dogs has been recommended, as their use has been found of im- portance in reducing the frequency of "staggers" in sheep, whilst in Victoria one is advised to bury or throw boiling water over the exposed faeces of dogs, and to frequently purify with boiling water the kennels and the ground around them. Theatment.—Although hydatids grow very slowly, and although many patients may under- go cure by spontaneous death of the parasite, yet every patient suftering from the disease should be treated, as his life may be at any time endangered by suppuration or rupture of the cyst. Surgical interference is the only mode of treatment in general use at the present time, and the methods of operation are as varied as are the characters of different hydatids. The procedure to be employed must therefore be that which appears best adapted to the individ- ual case. I. Incision of the cyst with drainage of the contents (marsupialisation of the French writers). A hydatid of the liver may be taken as an ex- ample. It may be dealt with (a) hy o-pcrntion in one sUige (Lindemann). The abdominal wall is incised, the cyst exposed and brought up to the wound ; swabs are applied to prevent any fluid passing into the peritoneum when the cyst is opened; the adventitious capsule is sutui'ed to the edge of the parietal wound ; the cyst is opened ; the contents are thoroughly evacuated by irrigation, aided by gentle traction with forceps on the true cyst wall or daughter-cysts, and a large drainage-tube is inserted. In a favourable case healing will be complete in six to ten weeks. In Landau's modification the cyst is exposed, and is then tapped before the adventitious capsule is sutured to the parietes. (6) Operation in two stages (Volkmann). At the first operation the cyst is exposed and the wound packed with gauze. Adhesions will form be- tween the serous surfaces, and about a week later the cyst is opened, emptied, and drained as in Lindemann's operation. Indications.—Suppuration of the cyst, or any large cyst which from its size or configura- tion, or because it contains numerous daughter- bladders, cannot be completely and thoroughly emptied. Disadvantages.—It is not uncommon for heal- ing to be slow ; a chronic fistula discharging bile may remain, the patient is exposed to the risk of septic infection, and finally a bad scar may result, with the possibility of subsequent ventral hernia. If there are no peritoneal adhesions, which is rarely the case in suppurating hydatids, opera- tion in two stages is claimed by some to be safer than Lindemann's operation, but in the former method the patient has to undergo a second operation, and the formation of adhesions can- not always be relied on even a fortnight after the first operation. There is in fact no advant- age gained by operating in two stages, provided that in Lindemann's operation requisite precau- tions are taken to prevent the entrance of hydatid fluid into the peritoneum. II. Evacuation of the cyst and closure of the abdominal wound. (a) Modified LindismanrCs Operation. — After the cyst has been exposed and tapped, the adventitious capsule is firmly sutured to the edge of the parietal wound, the cyst is incised, the mother-cyst, daughter-cysts, and other contents are cleared out, the wall of the sac being thoi'oughly cleansed and dried with swabs. The edges of the incised adventi- tious capsule are then sutured together, and the pai'ietal wound is closed. {h) Intraperitoneal Treatment.—The cyst is exposed, incised, thor- oughly cleared out so as to remove all the mother-cyst, daughter-cysts, etc., and the sac is dried out with swabs. The edges of the incised adventitious capsule are sutured, the sac is dropped back into the abdomen, and the parietal woimd is closed. There are various modifica- tions of this operation. Delbet recommends the passing of sutures through the thickness of the walls of the sac so as to bring the latter in ap- position. Posadas {Rev. d. Cliir., 1899, xix.).