INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 477 revert to the idea of a premature senility of nerve-cells which inaugurates something in the nature of a descending degeneration. For example, take the case of a boy at school, a good son and a promising scholar, who, on entering the fifth form, failed to make progress, and, at the end of the term, returned home with his first unsatisfactory report. A year later that boy was obviously demented, had apparently forgotten all he had learned, and was fit only for the work of a common labourer. Some such cases go on to motor paresis. I have under my care now a man who broke down towards the end of his college days after an unusually promising record. There was no sudden change, but only a slowly progressing stupidity, and instead of taking the high place in his profession which was expected of him, he became entirely childish. Moreover, he suff"ers from a partial hemiplegia, with diffuse motor impairments in all his limbs. His attitude and gait, and especially his speech, are those of an idiot. Visitors who are specialists take him for an imbecile, and strangers cannot understand what he says. Yet there was no sudden lesion, and in my six years'acquaintance with him, his atrophies, as we call them, have not materially increased. Most careful inquiry failed to elicit any sugges- tion of an active cause of insanity. Some of these cases are occasioned by the reprodvictive crises. Precocious senility may occur after child-bearing, or with the too heavy cares of a large household. Similarly, men who become rather suddenly engrossed with large and increasing affairs may not only not rise to the occasion, but may become demented under their burden. And so we can trace the disease right on into recognised senility. Healthy brains are still plastic in old age. Some men and women never know dotage, but others begin to be senile at the climacteric; and, from that time onwards, instances are very common of progressive mental atrophy, with or without sensory and motor impairments. Thoiigh we find it expedient to consider "Consecutive Dementia " separately, those cases of acute idiopathic insanity, followed by dementia instead of re- covery, are probably cases in point, and their acute attack merely an incident in the atrophic process. Some of them, after an indefinite period of dementia, undergo a more or less rapid motor paralysis from diffuse degenerative changes. Americans, under the name " Hebephrenia," describe a disease which occurs at or soon after puberty, which may include an acute attack of insanity, which leads to craziness and dementia in about a year. It occurs in lawless patients, and masturbation is a frequent factor. It would therefore appear to be an abrupt pi-ogressive dementia in the obviously degenerate. Abnormal Mental Variations. — Alienism suffers greatly from a defective nomenclature, and especially from the misappropriations of generic terms to a too narrow application. Thus, degeneracy, which ought to describe mental arrest in general, is used almost exclusively in reference to the extreme, criminal cases. Similarly, the term paranoia would have been most suitable for the designation of con- stitutionally disordered minds not actually insane, but is used almost exclusively to describe a delusional variety. We must therefore fall back upon a roundabout phrase — abnormal mental variations—to describe the symptoms of those odd minds which ai-e of the insane diathesis. To gather our threads together, we may recall summarily the most important wants of such minds. These are a lack of life-preserving instincts; defective sexual desire of a normal form; domestic indiff'erence; lack of capacity for enjoyment; muscular ineptness ; gullibility ; unpracticableness ; and tactlessness. These are the negative signs of the insane diathesis, not all of them to be looked for in one case. And associated with them we must note many posi- tive symptoms—disproportionate developments of function which add to the mental asymmetry. Their name is legion, and we must confine our- selves to a few of the most important. Of the primitive functions, the sexual claims first attention. History teems with instances of redundant sexual capacity of a normal form. And more significant are the various perversions of it, so hard to explain except as due to dis- arrangements in embryo. Of the other instincts, all manner of excesses might be described, but other kinds of disorder are more significant. Very important, for example, are disorders of sensation. A visceral hypersensibility is often to be noted, and still oftenor, an vmdue attention to stimuli of the special sense organs. Similarly abnormal minds may manifest undue muscular aptness and develop extraordinary movements. The best instances are those musical prodigies whose technique is so far in advance of their feeling for music. But it is on a higher plane that we find the best symptoms in point—in great feats of memory, in the tenacity of fixed ideas, in extravagant beliefs, in too subtle thinking, in unbridled imagination. Of the last, day-dreaming is very important, as visionary activities of that sort are often the prologues of delusion or of insane impulses. On the emotional side of mind we must take special note of fear- fulness, that relic of the fugitive consciousness which expresses itself in an unfounded appre- hension of impending evil, a tendency to expect an evil issue out of every experience, a habit of " supping sorrow with a long spoon." No special kind of emotion, howevei', is characteristic, but rather an undue intensity of whatever feeling the mind entertains. In volition, impulsiveness is the most common excess. In the ill-balanced mind promptings of an imperative kind, and which are not justifiable by the facts of ex- perience, call for a control which is often lacking.