INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 484 later. But many melancholies also, bowed down with pain, conceive the idea that they are the victims of a conspiracy, or wanted by the police, or pursued by an angry God, or played upon by electricity, or undergoing slow poisoning. These delusions in such cases are not abiding. Consciousness of Social Disaster. — Many patients on retiring from society under their grief become possessed with the idea that they are disgraced in the eyes of their neighbours, that people look askance at them, that they are defaulters and ruined. Melancholies who seldom manifest an interest in outside affairs will some- times devote themselves to the newspaper to an extent difficult to understand until we learn that they are looking to find themselves in one of its black lists. Similarly, when a patient is removed from home a very common delusion is that a domestic disaster has occurred, that the home has been burned down, that the spouse is dead or has fled, or that the children have been murdered. Consciousness of Bodily Disorder. — These classes of delusion are not discrete, but obviously overlap. No description of mental facts is or can be exclusive. And many delusions, other- wise classified, are occasioned hj a consciousness of ill-health, whether interpreted as such or de- scribed in other terms. That mode of attention is sometimes general—does not refer to any par- ticular function or part of the body, and then the patient probably believes simply that he is dying, or labouring under some incurable un- specified disease, or emitting an offensive odour. Or it may be particular—refers to some one system or symptom—and then perhaps the patient believes that insects are crawling over him, that his stomach is of glass, that he has cancer of the throat, that he has lung, or heart, or abdominal disease. The systemic ill feeling such as occurs in neurasthenia or in toxaemia probably accounts for this hypochondria of a general kind. And we call it hypochondria, not because there is not actual disease, but because the patient suffers the invariable hypochondriacal symptom of being wholly vuiable to ignore his trouble, and, not content with feeling and think- ing about it, discourises freely upon the topic. Particular delusions are more often based upon local disorder. Hyperaesthesias and anaesthesias probably account for many such beliefs. Visceral delusions often prove to be approximately true, and physicians do well to make frequent exam- inations of patients who insist that a specified function is disordered. In particular, as Dr. Macpherson, in this country, and others have recently insisted, we must have great regard to indigestion or paradigestion in the insane. The belief of a melancholic that he has an animal, an embryo, a clock, or a battery "in his inside," is often a misinterpretation of a very real fact. A large proportion of uielancholics are dyspeptics and have dilated stomachs. Many hours after a meal, if vomiting occur, or if the stomach be emptied by the tube, undigested food will be ejected. Hence the modification of the old idea that melancholies should be indiscriminately stuffed with food, and the advantages in certain cases of washing out the stomach, and, as Dr. Mercier suggests, of a strictly regulated diet. Suicidal Melancholia. — If melancholia occurs, as it often does, in a person who is lacking in the life-preserving instincts, he will certainly become suicidal if his distress is con- siderable. We can appreciate what it means to him if we consider (what is a fact and not merely an expression) that a victim of a bad sea-sickness really does not care whether the boat goes to the bottom and he with it or not. The distress of melancholia, and probably of stupor, is what we would describe as intolerable. Most cases would be glad to die, but most cannot bring themselves to perform the suicidal act. The prolongation of life is very largely a muscular affair. The life-instinct is to a large extent an inherited series of self-defensive movements—^to draw a limb away from hurt, to run from danger, to shrink from inflicting a wound on oneself— all of them as automatic as the blinking of the eyelids in a dust-storm. In suicidal melancholia one of two elements, or both, may be present. These instincts for danger, the common-sense appreciation of what will hurt, may be not fully developed, or the patient may have great pluck or determination, hence the discrimination which patients show as to the mode of suicide, and the discrimination which the physician must exercise as to the fatal probability in a given case. The only safe assumption is that each and every melancholic will be glad to die, and therefore it is never safe to leave them unguarded in circum- stances which offer, and perhaps obtrude, an opportunity of suicide. But the variety of melancholia which we are now considering is a much more positive state. It is not merely carelessness of life, but a fixed and persistent determination to put an end to it. Such cases are not infrequent. They are not of the acute form of melancholia, which has almost no out- ward relation, but generally speaking have con- siderable mental activity, probably converse a good deal with their neighbours, and are able at times to quite conceal or forget their distress. Their state of mind is like that of simple melan- cholia with a suicidal intention added. They are like persons who know they must die soon, sometimes are cast down by the thought of it, sometimes mercifully forgetful, sometimes delib- erately deceitful about it. Every such case has an insane conviction on the subject—that his or her death is necessary or expedient. Sometimes that conviction grows in a mind which docs not reveal much other insanity, but (juite as often is an insane conclusion from insane premises. Such patients believe, for example, that they are a source of danger to