406 INFANT FEEDING London dairy company contained only "05 per cent of fat. In these days of sterilisation, it is interesting to note that the value of koumiss as a food in certain cases is undeniable ; but none the less bacteriological examination showed in all the specimens examined by the writer that it was swarming with micrococci, as appears to be always the case from its method of preparation. Condensed Milk.—This is cow's milk which has been evaporated in vacuo, and then sterilised by heat. It is sold in two varieties — (1) sweetened, (2) unsweetened. The better-class brands are made from whole milk, i.e. milk from which none of the cream has been removed, or even from milk to which cream has been added; but a very large quantity of the cheap condensed milk is made from skimmed or separ- ated milk which has lost nearly all its cream, and which, therefore, even if it were fresh, would be totally imfit for infant food. The ordinary sweetened condensed milk con- tains a large quantity of added cane-sugar. The average composition of the better-class brands, as calculated from published analyses quoted by Blyth, is as follows ;— Proteids 10"9 per cent Fat 9-5 Sugar— Cane-sugar, 41-1\ p. „ Milk-sugar, 13'l / ' " -'"^ Salts 2-03 ,. Water 21-37 ,, It will be seen that in order to reduce the per- centage of sugar to the correct proportion, about 7 per cent, it is necessary to dilute sweetened condensed milk with seven times its quantity of water, with the following approximate result:— Proteids 1 -3 ijcr cent Fat 1-1 Sugar 67 Salts -2 Water 90-7 ,, Such a mixture contains altogether too little fat, but the directions on some of the brands recommend even further dilution. P"'or instance, in one (Sledge Brand) examined by the writer, the fat amounted to 9-5 per cent, the directions recommended dilution with 11 parts of water for the first month, and then with 8 parts of water for the second and third months, making the proportions of fat respectively -8 per cent and -1 per cent. The proteids, also, with such dilution, become very deficient. As a matter of fact these directions are rarely carried out with any accuracy, for the milk is measured with a teaspoon, which is then used to stir it into the water; condensed milk, being very thick, clings to the teaspoon, which may thus contain as much as 3 or 4 drachms. In this way the writer has found the percentage of fat, where condensed milk was prepared nominally in the proportion of a teaspoonf id to 4 ounces of water, to be as much as 3-2 per cent. In such a case, however, the lessened dilution of fat meant also lessened dilution of sugar, which was altogether in excess (probably about 18 per cent). There is, in fact, no via media in using the ordinary sweetened condensed milk, either the sugar must be seriously in excess, or the fat must be seriously deficient. With the inferior sweetened condensed milk which the poor buy at about half the price of the better-class brands, the deficiency of fat is even worse. The proportion of fat in some of these was as low as 0'4 per cent (Dyer), and as the sugar is as excessive as in the better-class brands they require similar dilution; the result is a proportion of fat, in some of these, amount- ing to barely 0"5 per cent. It is hardly to be wondered at that rickets and marasmus should result from such a diet. Unsweetened condensed milk of a reliable brand is much more satisfactory in this respect; it contains no cane-sugar, and requires much less dilution, so that the percentage of fat is not so greatly diminished. In the manufacture of some of these brands the fat has been increased by the addition of cream before condensation. The Viking Brand, in the sample examined by the writer, contained 11 per cent of fat; the "Ideal" contained 10-4 per cent; the "First Swiss" (Romanshorn), 9-4 per cent. These re- quire dilution with about three times their quantity of water to bring the other con- stituents to suitable proportions : the percentage of fat thus becomes 2-75, 2*6, and 2-35 respec- tively. Milk - sugar should be added to this unsweetened milk in the proportion of half a teaspoonful to 3 ounces of the diluted mixture. The unsweetened milk should be used within thirty-six hours of opening the tin; it decom- poses much more rapidly than the sweetened milk, in which the cane-sugar acts as a preser- vative. Condensed milk has its value as a temporary food, where it is impossible to obtain fresh cow's milk, or where an infant is unable to digest ordinary diluted cow's milk. With an acid condensed milk gives a large firm clot, very like that formed in fresh milk, but, in spite of this, it is certainly more easily digested by some infants. If its use has to be continued several weeks the deficiency of fat should be corrected by the addition of |-1 teaspoonful of fresh (48 per cent) cream to each 3-4 oz. feed, so as to bring the fat in the mixture to at least 3 per cent. The unsweetened milk should always be used in preference to the sweetened; but if only the sweetened is available (the other costs rather more, owing to its more rapid decom- position after opening, and therefore cannot always be used by the poor), it should be diluted freely, so as to reduce the sugar to 6-7 per cent, and then enriched by the addition of cream. It may also be necessary to give raw meat juice once or twice a day to correct the deficiency of proteids.