HEART, NEUROSES OF 160 ated with rheumatic valvular disease may of course be met with much earlier and at any age, although, inasmuch as the same forms of arrhytlimia may be met with both in the presence and in the absence of valvular lesions, the latter cannot be regai'ded as essential factors in their production. The nature of the lesion appears, however, to have a certain influence upon the character of the heart's action in its endeavour to cope witli the mechanical difficulty produced by it. Thus a certain type of arrhythmia may be more common in one form of valvular lesion than in another. Just as the heart's action is visually more regular when compen- sation is lost in aortic than in mitral valvular disease, so the arrhy- thmia associated with aortic disease tends to be more rhythmical and of a slower rate than the delirious hyposystolic pulsation of a tachy- cardial type so often met with in mitral disease (Figs. 7 and 8). What applies to the aortic and mitral valves applies also to the p^dmonary and tricuspid, although the opportunity of observing the latter is rarely afforded. There may therefore be said to be an aortic and mitral type of arrhythmia, the former having a greater leaning towards bradycardia and the latter towards tachycardia, with the result that the arrhythmia of necessity partakes of the nature of both, periods of retarded pulsation occurring irregularly in the midst of an unequal tachy- cardia. Outside mechanical causes, the same venery, tobacco, near or distant local causes of reflex action, and interstitial sclerotic and myo- cardial changes, may be associated with this as with other forms of disordered cardiac action. The discrimination of these is, however, of practical importance, as will be insisted upon in its proper place. Finally, when predisposing causes are present, " shock " may originate a persistent arrhythmia. Nor need this surprise us Fig. 9.—Incipient arrliytliniia after shod;. UiA -Rliytlnnical arrhythmia in aoitic valvular disease with trigeminal pulse. Vic. 8.—Tlie ;irihytliinia uf mitral disease. influences which provoke bradycardia and tachy- cardia have an influence in the production of arrhythmia. Gout in its protean forms— rheumatism, influenza, alcoholism, syphilis. Fig. 10.—Tlie same pulse four years later. when we reflect that both physical and mental shocks may induce a fatal syncope and indeed persistent disorder in organs other than the heart. Thus a neurotic patient of the writer's, when towards the end of his fifth decade and in good health, developed glycosuria as the result of the suicide of an intimate friend whose cremation he had to superintend in accordance with the wishes of the deceased, and about five years later, having the misfortune to be knocked down in the street by a bicycle going at good speed, the same subject developed a persistent and ultimately well-marked arrhythmia, which dated from that accident. In notes made prior to that event, his pulse was only on one occasion observed to be slightly intermittent (Figs. 9 and 10). Syniptomatolof/y.—The inequality in time in the piilse of arrhythmia is usually associated with a variety in the character of the separate cycles in cardiac action and their corresponding pulse waves. In the simplest form of arrhy- thmia, indeed, the variation in time is more marked than in character (Fig. 9), but sooner or later alterations occur in this respect also. The pulse wave may then be characterised by a partial systolic rise which corresponds to a hyjaosystole at the heart, by a bold intercurrent systolic rise which denotes a hypersystole at the heart, or by a suppression of the systolic rise or intermission of tiie pulse, which denotes the condition of asystole at the heart (Fig. 10). All these may, moreover, be met with in the same pulse, and occur without determinable periodicitj'. The arrhythmia is then complete. Systole in varying force may, however, be associated, as has been stated, with hyposystole