209 HERNIA encircle the thigh. If an inguinal hernia is present on the same side, the femoral pad can be prolonged upwards and inwards to cover the canal and ring. Operative Treatment.—Since the introduc- tion of modern methods into surgery the number of cases submitted to operation has, very properly, increased considerably. Prob- ably, however, the question of the propriety of interference will remain for some time largely a matter of the personal choice of the surgeon. There are some surgeons who look upon most examples of hernia as legitimate cases for the " radical" cure, while others, carefully selecting their cases, have, by growth of experience, been led to believe that very few patients are really cured by operation, and they have in conse- quence restricted the treatment by operation to examples of congenital hernia. There are two points which should be considered before attempting any decision in the matter. The first is that, as shown by Macready and others, 36"1 per cent of cases of hernia, at first single, become, after the lapse of weeks, months, or years, bilateral. The second is that the recurrence of a hernia after radical cure is, un- happily, far more frequent than is generally conceded. The results of Halsted and Bassini are the best so far recorded, but, allowing for the varying experience of all surgeons, one may state the likelihood of return as approximately 10 to 15 per cent of all the cases submitted to operation. There are certain cases which, in the absence of urgent or striking reasons to the contrary, should be invariably submitted to the " radical cure." Such are— 1. Cases of uncontrollable or irreducible hernise, where treatment by trusses is either inapplicable or has proved unavailing. 2. Cases occurring in young men, otherwise healthy and sound, desirous of entering the services. 3. Cases of strangulated hernia in which the gut has been reduced. On the other hand, there are instances in which an operation is rigidly excluded. These are— 1. In the old, very feeble, cachectic or broken down, who are unalale to tolerate any surgical treatment. 2. In young children, except in cases of strangulation. 3. In enormous hernise, where a shrunken abdomen has resulted from the steady and progressive hernial enlargement. 4. In those cases where an inherited and extensive weakness of the abdominal muscles is the chief factor in determining the occurrence of the rupture. Between these two groups, however, the majority of cases occur, and it is in dealing VOL. IV with them that the surgeon must exercise his discretion. My own feeling is that within reasonable age limits in healthy subjects, say from ten to fifty years, I should certainly advise treatment by operation in the very great majority of patients. If the patient is in good condition, if the rupture is of only moderate size, and if a complete union of the wound is obtained without suppuration, the chance of recurrence is very small indeed, probably less than 5 per cent. When, moreover, a recurrence under such circumstances does take place, the rupture is, almost without exception, easier to control by truss pressure than the ordinary complete hernia. The Radical Cure of Hernia 1. Inguinal. — The treatment of inguinal hernia by operation was introduced by Celsus, who, it is interesting to note, expressly did not advocate any operative measures for ruptures which were strangulated. The removal of the testis, which for centuries was considered as a necessary incident in the operation, was advised by Paulus of CEgina. Since the introduction of modern methods into surgical practice the operative treatment of all forms of hernia has been marked by a most florid activity. Several " essential prin- ciples " have been evolved, and the modifications of each have been bewildering in their frequency and unnecessary complexity. Probably no subject in the wide domain of medicine, not even the subject of pessaries, has had so much that is trivial and worthless written upon and around it as this. Of the operations that have been widely used the following alone need mention :—■ 1. Simple ligature of the neck of the sac and removal (Socin). 2. Ligature of the neck of the sac and stitching iq:) the external ring (Czerny, Banks, Championuiere). 3. Pleating of the sac which is fixed as a pad at the upper end of the canal; suture of canal (Mace wen). 4. Torsion of the sac, with suture in the canal (Ball). 5. Torsion of the sac, displacement of the neck, suture of canal (Kocher). Recently modified (see description later). 6. Removal of the whole sac, dis2)lacement of the cord, suture of the canal (Halsted, Bassini). There can be no question that the operation most widely practised at the present time, and incomparably the most successful in results, is that introduced by Bassini. The operation of Halsted (which has priority of publication) is the same in principle, but the details of the operation are different in certain particulars. Bassini s Operation.—An incision is made in the inguinal region, beginning a little below 14