315 HYSTERIA tracture is one which is slight and disappears during sleep. Another type is accompanied by considerable hypersesthesia with spontaneous paroxysms and pain, together with painful anaesthesia and serious disturbance of the general sensibility. Contractures have a tendency to remain; if they improve they may reappear suddenly on the slightest provocation. With the neuro-muscular system in a state of hyper- sensibility, a very slight moral or physical shock may set up a contracture. In this class of patient the contracture seems to be waiting to be induced; this peculiarity is called diathesis of contracture. This contracture easily reveals itself by percussion of the tendons, by massage of the muscles, by faradisation and compression with Esmarch's bandage. Diathesis of contrac- ture is not confined to hysteria, but is met with in cases of organic degeneration of the pyramidal tract. Hysterical contractures must not be confounded with simulated contractures; these latter only occur after a great effort, and betray themselves by the acceleration of the respiratory movements. In organic contractures the sensory disorders are slight, the tendon reflexes are always exaggerated, and the fibrillary twitchings never cease. Hysterical contracture even in its external aspect differs materially from one of organic origin; in this latter the rigidity is slight and may be overcome within certain limits, whereas in hysterical contracture the rigidity is such that it cannot be overcome ; the attitude of the limb is also more exaggerated, and the flexion more pronounced than in organic contracture. Contractures may assume different types. As in paralysis, hemiplegic and para- plegic, we shall only mark monoplegic and limited contractures ; hemiplegic and paraplegic types are always accompanied by a slight degree of paralysis. When the contracture involves an upper limb its aspect is characteristic, the arm is adducted, the elbow bent, the hand may be closed or opened, and the fingers may be placed as if they held a pen. At other times the wa-ist is strongly bent and the fist closed. In mono- plegia of a lower limb the appearance is one of extension; the contracture is often localised to the foot—the hysterical club-foot, in which the toes are sometimes stretched out, sometimes curled in. Contracture of the ankle is rare. Among the contractures confined to a muscular group we must mention the very rare trismus, the glossolabic hemispasm, the contracture of the muscles of the eyes, blepharospasm, and wry-neck, or torticollis. Glossolabial hemispasm, already referred to, is frequently conjoined with paralysis and gives the sufferer a very singular expression. In repose the mouth is twisted, the nasolabial furrow deepened, the eyebrows lowered, and slight muscular tremors agitate the face from time to time. If the patient is ordered to open his mouth, or to laugh, or put out his tongue. the spasm becomes intense, the nasolabial furrow is curled up, the teeth are uncovered more on the contracted side than on the souiad side, the tongue is thrust out with some inclination to the contracted side, or may be pushed against the cheek inside instead of pushed out. The spasm may extend to the muscles of the eyelids and of the neck, and iia exceptional cases it is bilateral. Blepharospasm may exist alone or in conjunc- tion with the glossolabial hemispasm. There are various forms. In the clonic form there is a constant trembling of the half-closed eyelid. In the permanent or tonic form the eyelid is folded and is difficult to close or raise; if the eyeball is examined it is seen to roll from side to side. In the pseudo-paralytic form there is slight ptosis, without wrinkling of the eyelid or brow, and from time to time there are slight convulsive quivers. This false ptosis is dis- tinguished from paralysis of the levator palpebrse superioris by the lowering of the eyebrow on the side where the spasm exists ; in true paralysis it is lowered and accompanied with ana3sthesia of the conjunctiva and of the eyelid. Contrac- tures of the eye-mxiscles, though rare, do exist; the disorders of accommodation are attributed to contracture of the Brucke muscle, such dis- orders as monocular polyopia, micropsia, and megalopsia. In convergent and divergent stra- bismus the contracture of the motor ocular muscles may simulate ophthalmoplegia. Among other local contractures torticollis may be mentioned ; in this contracture the twisting of the neck cannot be prevented, a fact which distinguishes it from paralytic torticollis, a much rarer disease. Torticollis, when associated with subjective pains of the mucous membrane, may be mistaken for cervical caries. Contrac- tures of the muscles of the trunk give rise to scoliosis and kyphosis. The motor affections which we have still to investigate are chorea, tremblings, saltatory spasms, and astasia-abasia. Hysterical chorea belongs to two classes : one very rare, arrhythmic chorea, in which the gestures and movements are disorderly, as in the chorea of Sydenham; the other more fre- quent, rhythmic chorea, in which the shocks attack the limbs, the face, the neck, or the half of the body (hemichorea). It may be thus described : a series of regular cadenced shocks, followed by paroxysmal fits, lasting generally from fifteen to twenty minutes, rarely one or several days. These rhythmical co-ordinated spasms reproduce gestures associated with some action, such as dancing {chorea saltatoiia), swim- ming {chorea natatoria), a smith beating his anvil {chorea malleatoria). {See article " Chorea.") The hysterical tremblings following an attack or fit are generalised or limited, and are characterised by an intense polymorphism, causing them to resemble all the recognised