59 HEADACHE the primary error lies in the digestive system, and in order to cure an attack and prevent recurrence treat the stomach ; others locate the error in the circulation ; others in the nervous mechanism. Uric-acidsemiadoes not produce migraine in every subject, only in those with a peculiar nervous system. The circulatory phenomena, the head- ache, sickness, uric-acidsemia, are not the dis- ease, but incidents in the attack. In migraine, as in other nerve-storm diseases such as epilepsy, there are probably at least three factors. 1. There must be a peculiar constitutional con- dition of the nerve-centres. 2. A morbid or toxic condition of the blood. 3. Some peri- pheral irritation. This irritation acts as the ■exciting cause ; it may be worry, excitement, OA^erwork, powerful impressions on any of the special senses, errors in the optical apparatus •causing eye strain, digestive derangements. 8. Electrical and other conditions of the atmo- ;sphere produce headache in certain persons. Diagnosis of the Cause.—This is often a matter of great difficulty, sometimes all that can be attained is a provisional diagnosis. In the solution of the problem we first consider the age of the patient and the diseases common at the time of life, the circumstances preceding the attack, the time of day at which it occurs, the character of the pain—continvious or paroxysmal —and its duration. The locality of the pain may give some guidance, but it often gives none. We then make a systematic examina- tion of the special senses and of other organs which might produce reflex irritation, also of the blood. The temperature and other sym- ptoms enable us, as a rule, at once to put aside specific fevers and encephalitis, although occa- sionally in typhoid fever headache and debility are the symptoms which cause the sufferer to seek advice. Age.—When we have to do with young children we should examine the gums. If the mouth be moist and the child do not suffer increase of pain when the gums are pressed on, dentition is not at fault. We should inquire as to accident, for headache may recur long after injury and in the absence of external mark. Examine the sutures for evidence of hydro- cephalus. If the head be drawn back think of basal meningitis. In tubercular meningitis pain is not an early symptom; when it occurs it is in paroxysms, the child screams, may put its hands to the head, there is vomiting, constipa- tion, marked leucocytosis, and the eyes if they can be examined show evidence of optic neuritis. Always when you siispect pain in the head of a child examine the ears for evidences of inflam- mation of them, by making gentle traction on the auricles, pressing on the tragus; and if possible examine the meatus and membrana tympani. In older children examine the ears, ascertain whether there has been discharge from the meatus; pain from inflammation of the meatus or of the middle ear is relieved after discharge, if not relieved is there abscess? Absence of tenderness on tapping the cranium, and behaviour of the temperature will guide. During second dentition caries and impaction of teeth are possible causes, the latter specially if the jaw be small. Lauder Brunton states that in every case of headache he first examines the teeth. If the child be of school age the condition of the optic apparatus should be examined as to errors of refraction and of powers of fixation, the nose and particularly the naso-pharynx are likely causes at this age. The attention should be specially directed to the latter if there has been frequent ear trouble, examine the naso-pharynx with the finger. If these and other physical causes such as irritable stomach and bowels can be excluded, ascertain the amount of school work which is required. If sleep be disturbed and the child awake un- refreshed, it has probably too much work. Overpressure is a relative term. The period of eruption of the wisdom teeth is a very variable one, and the irritation connected with the process is a common cause of headache. Megrim often commences about puberty, and the history of the attack is diagnostic, unless in very mild cases. In later life it might be con- founded with gouty headache, but the latter is usually confined to one side of the head, is much aggravated by movement; megrim usually be- comes less severe in late life, the head may or may not be tender on tapping, there is no history of periodicity, but there is a histoiy of gout in the individual or family, and there may be other evidences of gout present. About middle life a very common cause of headache is commencing presbyopia; if there be increased ocular tension we should be suspicious of glaucoma. In later life a not uncommon cavise is ursemia. In every case of headache the urine should be examined. The Time of Day.—If headache comes on in the morning examine for uric-acidsemia, ascertain whether the bedroom be properly ventilated, and whether the drainage be good. Headache which occurs on awaking in the morning, and is relieved after breakfast, is often due to want of food, nothing having been taken since late afternoon, and then only a light meal. Some congestive headaches are aggravated by the recumbent posture with low head, and are therefore worst in the morning. When the attack comes on in the evening it is often caused by overwork, exhaustion, nerve debility, sometimes by com- mencing presbyopia. Those which come on or are worst at night are due to rheumatism or syphilis. When the latter is the cause the pain is more constant and the nocturnal exacerbations are, as a rule, more severe than in rheumatism. The headache of rheumatism may be very severe, but it is not so constant as that due to syphilis or tumour; there is usually the history of a draught, sometimes great tenderness of the