534 INTESTINES, DISEASES OF blocking of the intestinal lumen at the site of growth by hard scybala, or foreign bodies. Per- foration of the bowel with peritonitis may be the first intimation of serious mischief. The symptoms, however, generally develop slowly. Vague dyspeptic symptoms, a sense of dis- comfort in the abdomen, even amounting to pain, constipation alternating with diarrhoea, a distaste for food, mental irritability, nausea, vomiting and progressive loss of strength, with cancerous cachexia, usually precede the more definite symptoms of intestinal blocking. The assertion that if a patient over thirty-five years of age complains of persistent dyspeptic symp- toms for the first time, cancer of the stomach should be suspected, is equally applicable to cancer of the intestine, with perhaps this addition : that the svifferer from intestinal cancer will probably also complain of flatu- lence and diarrhoea alternating with constipa- tion. Unfortunately, the early symptoms of cancer, until it has attained to the stage of a palpable tumour, are always vague and un- certain. If a tumour of the small intestine can be detected, it may occupy any part of the abdominal cavity, because, with the exception of the second and third part of the duodenum, and the colon, the intestine is attached to a longer or shorter mesentery, which allows of considerable displacement by the weight of the tumour itself, or by pressure communicated to it from without. The tumour may vary in size, or be more readily felt at one time than another, due to the amount of abdominal distension or presence of faecal masses behind a stricture. The stools frequently contain blood, and, indeed, considerable haemorrhage may take place from the ulcerated mucous membrane. For further symptoms of intestinal obstruction in Malignant Disease, vide p. 540. In cancer of duodenum, the general symptoms irrespective of the part affected are wasting, the gradual appearance of cancerous cachexia, ano- rexia, nausea, and vomiting at variable intervals after meals, pain in the right hypochondrium, haematemesis, rarely melsena, and in the later stages signs of dilatation of the stomach from stenosis of the duodenum, will usually be present. In the later stages, after ulceration of the mucous membrane has allowed of auto- intoxication from bacterial absorption, the temperature rises. If the growth invades the duodenum above the biliary papilla, which usually enters the duodenum three or four inches below the pylorus, the vomited matter is unlikely to contain bile, and the symptoms are similar to those found in cancer of the pylorus. If the growth is below the biliary papilla, bile and pancreatic juice regurgitate into the stomach, and their presence in the vomit can be easily recognised. Bile may also in this case be deficient in the stools. In supra-papillary cancer tiie tiunour is movable, and resembles a pyloric cancer, whereas in the infra-papillary variety it is fixed, and may be mistaken for cancer of the head of the pancreas. The growth may occur at or so near to the biliary papilla itself as to produce symptoms indistinguishable from those brought about by cancer of the common duct, or its ampulla, where jaundice is an early symptom. Diagnosis.—Diagnosis is never easy, and in the early stages, in the absence of a palpable tumour without an exploratory laparotomy, it is impossible. If an abdominal tumour is absent, the persistence of symptoms in spite of treatment, the age of the patient, progressive loss of weight, and the appearance of cancerous cachexia, are the chief symptoms to rely on, but it is often necessary in the early stages to arrive at an opinion by a process of exclusion. After the appearance of a tumour great care has still to be exercised before a definite opinion can be formed. Cancer of the first part of the duodenum is practically indistinguishable from cancer of the pylorus, but differs from simple ulcer of the stomach by the presence of a tumour, by the small quantity of blood vomited, and by pain occurring some hours after food. Malignant disease of the duodenum below the pyloric papilla is distinguished from cancer of the head of the pancreas or of the lower end of the bile-duct by the absence of jaundice and by the presence of signs of duodenal stenosis and gastric dilatation. If the case is one affecting the intestine below the duodenum, we must first ascertain by the administration of enemata and purga- tives whether, after all fsecal accumulation is removed, any tumour is left. In every case rectal examination is then made, and in women, if possible, vaginal also. The history of the case and careful weighing of the symptoms may aid in the differential diagnosis from other conditions producing abdominal tumours, especially malig- nant disease of the uterine appendages, hydro- nephrosis, floating kidney, and tuberculosis of the peritoneum, and from other causes of intestinal obstruction, such as healed typhoid and tuberculous ulcers, and the impaction of gall-stones. Treatment.—Medical treatment can only be palliative. Surgical operation should receive the first consideration, because a radical cure of malignant intestinal growths is now no longer impossible. The diet should be so regulated that no irritating matter is allowed and little fsecal residue results. It should be chiefly fluid, easy of digestion and absorption. By this means the chance of intestinal obstruction is diminished, pain is lessened, a greater degree of rest is secured, and the tendency to htemor- rhage from the ulcerated mucous membrane is obviated. In advanced cases it may be advisable to rely largely on rectal feeding. In the last