12 GYNAECOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS IN urine (for albumin, sugar, etc.) is often of great value ; the bacteriological investigation of dis- charges from the uterus and vagina may be helpful; and the various organs of the different systems ought to be examined in order to sepa- rate morbid states which are genital reflexes from those due to actual disease of these organs. (ii.) ExAMiXATioN OF THE Urinary Tract : altliough not strictly within the province of the gynaecologist, the bladder and ureters are nowa- days often examined by him. (1) Palpation of Urethra and Bladder and Ureters : (a) during the vaginal examination the whole of the lu-ethra can be palpated by the finger pressing on the anterior vaginal wall (the consistence, thickness, tenderness, and mobility of it can be thus made out), and by pressure any secretion may be squeezed out of the meatus and examined microscopically and bacteriologi- cally; {b) the base of the bladder can also be palpated (the finger being in the anterior fornix vaginte); and by the bimanual some notion may be gained regarding the state of the vesical walls and the presence of foreign bodies {e.g. calculi) in the viscus; (c) the ureters, if thickened and hardened, may be felt per vaginam in their lower pelvic portion and per rectum in their upper pelvic part. {Note.—Digital palpation of the bladder per urethram (after digital dilatation) is now hardly ever practised ; but some informa- tion regarding the interior of the organ and its contents may be got by the use of the sound.) (2) Inspection {Cystoscopic) of the Bladder and Urethra: (or) Preliminaries are the emptying of the rectum and bladder and thoroTigh cleansing of the external parts, and especially of the vesti- bxile and meatus urinarius; sterilisation of the instruments (dilators, cystoscopes, and obturators, ureteral catheters, etc.), and of examiner's hands; {h) position of patient is either gen u-pectoral, or (better) exaggerated lithotomy, the hips being elevated on bran bags six inches above the level of the table ; (c) anfesthetic may be chloroform or the local application (to interior of urethra) of cotton wool soaked in cocain solution (10 per cent); {d) urethra is dilated with Hegar's or a conical dilator up to a diameter of from 12 to 15 mm. ; (e) Kelly's cystocope (nickel-plated cylinder, 8 cm. long, and having diameter of from 10 to 12 mm.), with obturator in it and well lubricated, is pushed into bladder; (/) when the obturator is withdrawn, air will rush into and distend the bladder ; (r/) light (from an electric lamp and mirror) can then be thrown into the bladder, and the interior inspected (noting the general appearance of the mucous membrane, the two ureteral eminences and folds, the interiu-eteric fold, and the internal urethral orifice); the internal urethral orifice and the urethra itself can be inspected by slowly with- drawing the cystoscope ; {h) it may be necessary to remove some drops of urine by a suction apparatus (tube and suction bulb). (3) Catheterisation of the Ureters : {a) during the cystoscopic examination of the bladder the uretei-s may be sounded ; (6) the method is as follows :—one iireteric opening is located (by slightly inclining the cystoscope to one side), any secretion is removed from it by cotton held in a pair of delicate mouse-tooth forceps, then a long or short ureteral catheter (stei'ilised) is passed through the cystoscope and guided along the ureter up into the pelvis of the kidney (the stylet being withdrawn by an assistant as the catheter advances); (c) the process is repeated for the opposite ureter, but with a different catheter (to avoid infection of one ureter from the other); (d) in this way ureteric strictures, twists, and calculi can be discovered, the urine got for examination from each kidney, and the ureters can be exactly defined prior to such operations as hystei-ectomy {Note.—By means of the Harris urine segregator (a double catheter with a forked end) the urine from each kidney can be collected separately without the ureters being entered, but not with such exact- ness as it is by ureteral catheterisation); {e) avoid catheterisation of the ureters when there is septic cystitis or tuberculosis of the bladder. 9. Diagnostic Operations : in addition to curettage and cervical dilatation, which are really operative procedures, even when the object is purely diagnostic, it may be noted that abdominal and vaginal sections are some- times performed for the purpose of ascertaining the nature of a morbid state (" exploratory section "). Note.—Illustrations of most of the instru- ments described in this article will be found in the plate accompanying Curettage (vol. ii. p. 260). Gynandry. — Pseudo-hermaphroditismus femininus; an individual with ovaries who yet has certain male charactei's is called a gynander ; gynandry is the antonym of androgyny. ,See Hermaphroditism ; Uterus, Malformations of {Gynandria). Gynia.triCS.—The therapeutics of gyna;- cology, or simply gyiicccology itself as dis- tinguished from obstetrics. GynOCardia Oil.—Chaulmoogra oil or oleum gynocardiic. See Chaulmoogra Oil ; Leprosy {Treatment). GyropSOriasiS.—Psoriasis in which tlie patches have a gyrate appearance. Gyrospasin. See Head-Shaking {Syn- onyms). Gyrus.—A convolution {e.fi. of the brain) or a winding (as of the cochlea). See BitAiN, Physiology of {Gyrus I'^ornicatiix) ; Phv.si- I OLOGY, Nervous System {Brain).