423 INFLUENZA {Etiology); Pleura, Diseases of {Acute Pleu- risy, Etiology) ; Pneumonia, Bacteriology of {Introductory); Pneumonia, Clinical {Etiology, Influenza); Post - mortem Methods {Bacterio- logical Investign.tions, Influenza) ; PuERPERlUM, Pathology {Fever, Diagnosis); Uelapsing Fever {Diagnosis); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Acute Thyroiditis, Causation); Typhoid Fever {Dia- gnosis) ; Typhus Fever {Diagnosis). Definition Influenza is an acute, specific, infective febrile affection, characterised by its remarkably sud- den onset, after an incubation of about two or three days, the many symptomatic phases it presents, the singular predisposition to other secondary infections which it induces, its disas- trous effect upon the heart, and the protracted convalescence which follows in its wake. In itself by no means a mortal disease, influenza exercises a far-reaching and malignant effect upon the death-rate, which surges far above the average during the few days or weeks of its epidemic or pandemic prevalence. Catarrhal symptoms, although often present, are not an essential feature of the disease. The victims of influenza are adults, who perish from pneumonia or bronchitis; and the aged, who sink from heart exhaustion. Children, while prone to the disease, enjoy a comparative immunity from its complications and dangers; in them a sharp febrile movement, with or without an evanescent rash of an erythematous nature, constitutes the main feature of the attack. Unlike the poison of typhus, the virus of influenza is not rendered inert by oxidation from contact with atmospheric air, but rather the contrary. Bacteriology The specific micro-organism of influenza was identified by Pfeiffer of Berlin, and independently by Canon of the same city in 1892. It is a very small aerobic, non-motile bacillus, which does not grow at temperatures below 28° C. (82"4° F.). Spore formation has not been observed. Its diameter is 0'2/a to Q'Zfj., and it is only about 0'5/i. in length. It occurs singly or united in chains of two, three, or four elements. It is ({uickly destroyed by desiccation. The thermal death-point is 60° C. (140° F.) with five minutes' exposure. This bacillus was discovered by Pfeiffer in the grey mucus of the bronchial mucous membrane and in the purulent bronchial secretion ; by Canon in the blood of patients suffering from epidemic influenza in 1892. Canon's observations as to the presence of the influenza bacillus in the blood lack confirmation. The deep staining of the ends of the bacillus with dilute carbol-fuchsin (Ziehl) solution or methylene blue (Loffler) solution, with heat, causes it to resemble a diplococcus (Sternberg). Pfeiffer's bacillus is present not only in the nasal and bronchial secretions, but also in the siib- stance of the lung, where it may set up pneu- monia in both adults and children. It may be localised in the spleen, pericardimn, endo- cardium, middle ear, central nervous system, and pleura. In severe cases the bacillus is also found in the peri-bronchial and sub-pleural lymphatics (Goodhart). Historical It would be foreign to the object of this article to enter at any length into the history or bibliography of influenza. When preparing his classical memoir on the Mortality of Ireland, published in the Census of 1841, the late Sir William Wilde, M.D., learned many curious facts connected with this disease and its epidemic outbreaks in early times in Ireland. It is described in a medical manuscript of the fifteenth century under the names of Fuachd {i.e. cold or chilliness) and Slaodan {i.e. a cough or cold), and is mentioned in the Annals of the Four Masters as epidemic in Ireland in the fourteenth century. A disease, the symptoms of which answer to those of influenza, is also alluded to in certain early Gaelic manuscripts under the term Creathan {i.e. a shaking or trembling). Finkler points out that the year 1510 is of especial importance in the history of influenza, as we here meet with the pestilence for the first time as a pandemic disease. It overran all Europe. Its historian, Dr. Thomas Short, thus describes the outbreak :—" The disease called Coccoluche, or Coccolucio (because the sick wore a cap or covering close all over their heads), came from the island Melite in Africa, into Sicily; so into Spain and Italy, from that over the Alps into Portugal, Hungary, and a great part of Germany, even to the Baltic Sea; every month shifting its situation with the wind from East to West, so into France, Britain, etc., Valeriola, Pechlin, etc. It attacked at once, and raged all over Europe, not missing a family and scarce a person. A grievous pain of the head, heaviness, difficulty of breathing, hoarse- ness, loss of strength and appetite, restlessness, watchings, from a terrible tearing cough. Pre- sently succeeded a chillness, and so a violent cough, that many were in danger of suffocation. The first days it was without spitting; but about the seventh or eighth day much viscid phlegm was spit up. Others (though fewer) spit only water and froth. When they began to spit, cough and shortness of breath were easier. None died except some children. In some, it went off with a looseness ; in others, by sweating. Bleeding and purging did hurt. . . . Where blood was let, the disease proved malig- nant and pestilential, being attended with a violent, cruel, and unheard-of malignity, and made bad work." The reader will admit that the foregoing de- scription is a faithful portraiture of the influenza of our own day.