162 HEART, NEUROSES OF innervation, although of a less easily detectable character than the gross neural changes met with after diphtheria. Prognosis.—Reflex and toxic arrhythmia may disappear at any age with the disappearance or removal of the cause, as likewise may the arrhythmia of cardiac overstrain and general exhaustion when these states arise in compara- tively young people with a fair reserve of recuperative energy. The arrhythmia of the arterio - sclerotic age is, on the other hand, usually persistent and progressive, inducing cardiac dilatation and other evidences of cardiac failure, and tending to shorten the life of the patient. Under appropriate treatment, how- ever, much may be done to prolong life in these cases, even when the underlying pathological condition is in an advanced stage, and the signs of cardiac failure well marked. Treatment.—In this as in other forms of dis- ordered cardiac action the removal or restraint of sources of reflex irritation is indicated. In the case of the young these will usually be found to lie in the gastro-intestinal tract, and will be amenable to the usual dietetic and medicinal agents effectual in securing due diges- tion in and evacuation of the canal. In other cases, the treatment of a general condition of which the arrhythmia is but a symptom, is indicated. Thus, in the writer's experience, a case yielded to the use of thyroid extract in the case of a lady, the subject of indistinctly-marked myxocdema. The gout, glycosuria, or rheumatic heart afTection associated with arrhythmia calls for treatment on recognised lines, for particulars of which the reader is referred to other portions of this work. If arrhythmia be associated with obesity or neurasthenic conditions suggestive of impaired muscular power, a judicious alternation of rest and exercise, witli or without salt baths, on the Nauheira principle, may be of much service. It is, however, in cases of arrhythmia associated with arterio-sclerosis that careful management may eff'ect much. In these the Nauheim system, although often employed, is of little service, and not devoid of danger. These cases, in a large proportion of mankind, need cardio - vascular rest, not exercise, but rest need not be syno- nymous with absolute quiescence, unless well- marked evidence of cardiac failure be present. A regulation of the blood weight by prescribing small and easily digestible meals, and the avoid- ance of more than a minimum of alcohol and tobacco, together with gentle exercise, may do much among the better classes to promote efficient cardiac action. The question as to the advisability of absolutely prohibiting the use of tobacco frequently arises. In the case of those who have imdeniably over-smoked themselves, it may be as necessary to do so as it may be to absolutely ])rohibit the use of alcohol to the drunkard. But the nde of thumb and oracular prohibition of these articles may, in the case of those accustomed to their moderate use, do more harm than good. Although the will cannot in- fluence the heart, the emotions can, and a large number of people cannot reconcile themselves to the abandonment of these articles without an amount of subjective worry, which it is desirable to avoid when the controlling influence of mental calm is very desirable. The poor over- worked arterio-sclerotic patient, with arrhythmia, on the other hand, frequently does well while in hospital on ordinary diet, rest in bed, and two to three ounces of brandy daily. He needs feed- ing, rest, and warmth to strengthen his heart and to overcome his peripheral vascular resistance. Among drugs in such cases, if one be more valuable than another, it is mercury, given alone, or, if there be evidences of cardiac dilata- tion and failure, in combination with digitalis. Old masters, such as Stokes of Dublin, knew well the value of this combination, and that value will be found not to have been exag- gerated by those who will follow their directions in the present day. The proper use of mercury in arterio-sclerosis seems, indeed, for a time to have been largely a lost art. With the concurrent use of bland unirritating form of food, and the avoidance of acid condiments such as vinegar, however, mer- curials may be given for a considerable period with benefit. In arterio-sclerotic cases with arrhythmia and cardiac failure, the well-known combination of blue pill, digitalis, squill, and hyoscyamus, often known as the " Guy's Pill" (but which is really attributable to that worthy physician. Dr. Matthew Baillie, who had no connection with Guy's Hospital), acts in many instances with the efficacy of a specific. The combination, indeed, often succeeds when the ingredients given separately fail, as Dr. Baillie maintained, for, while the mercury relieves the peripheral resistance to the circulation, the digi- talis urges the weakened heart to more efficient action. Heart, Surgery of.—As surgeons have advanced from the surgery of the pleura to the surgery of the lung, so the advance has now been made from puncture or incision of the pericardium to suture of a wound of the heart, and even to ligature of a bleeding coronary artery. The necessity for such an operation will very seldom come, yet a surgeon ought to have in his mind how he would meet it. To clear the ground, those cases may be set aside where a needle or a knitting-needle has been driven by accident, or in an attempt at suicide, into the heart. In these cases the rule is clear and unmistakable, that the foreign body should be at once removed. One end of it niiiy be felt under the skin; or its exact position may be defined by the X-rays. Even though it be gone altogether inside the pericardium, yet