HYDATID DISEASE 266 should occur the condition becomes more serious. EcJdnococci of the Bladder.—Manasse cites two cases, one of them having symptoms of severe cystitis and passage of hydatids per urethram. The latter symptom is, he says, the only characteristic sign of echinococci of the lower urinary passages in general, although there may be difficulty in micturition and de- fsecation, and although one may detect a fluctu- ating swelling. Manasse states that it is often difficult to determine whether the cyst is a primary hydatid of the bladder, or a hydatid which has developed in the subperitoneal con- nective tissue above the prostate, and which has become adherent to and possibly ruptured into the bladder. Echinococci of the Spleen.—Three per cent (Neisser), 2-87 per cent (Mosler and Peiper). Trinkler in 1894 collected from the literature seventy cases occurring during the previous fifteen years. The cyst usually attains a large size in the course of time, and there is not infrequently an echinococcus in some other organ. The spleen itself is usually atrophied, less frequently hypertrophied. There are no special sj^mptoms produced, but there is eventu- ally a large fluctuating swelling which is either confined to the left hypochondrium or extends into other regions of the abdomen too. Or the hydatid grows upwards into the thorax, causes dyspnoea and other pulmonary symptoms, and may eventually rupture into the left pleural cavity or bronchi. Examination of the blood often shows merely a slight degree of antemia, and the leucocytes are normal both as regards their total niimber and their relative pro- portions. Other Abdominal Echinococci. — (i.) Peoi- toneum.—The hydatids are usually multiple, possibly because of previous rupture or tapping of a cyat in tlie liver, (ii.) Mesentery or omen- tum is rarely afl'ected alone. A single large cyst usually forms a swelling towards the middle line of the abdomen. There may be no symp- toms till the cyst suddenly ruptures and causes peritonitis, or until the cyst suppurates, when there may be symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction as in a case of Stirling's, where the patient awoke one morning in great pain, and then for the first time noticed a swelling in the epigastrium, (iii.) Pancreas.—No definite case has been hitherto recorded. Subbotic reports the case of a patient, Jct. 17, where the clinical features were those of a pancreatic cyst, but at the post-mortem it could not be ascertained whether the hydatid had developed from the pancreas or the mesocolon, (iv.) Lumen of the Intestine.—There is as yet only one case in the literature. In this case, one of multiple echino- cocci, Subbotic states that in the interior of the appendix there were three echinococci A'arying from a cherr^'-stone to a cherry- in size, and also a degenerated echinococcus as large as a bean. The cysts had apparently caused no symptoms, (v.) Primary Retroperitoneal Echinococci.—The symptoms are very indefinite, and an accurate diagnosis before operation is almost impossible. Karewski records two cases : (a) A woman, fet. 3-5, suffered for years from symptoms of lumbago without definite ascertainable cause mitil a swelling eventually appeared in the region of the left kidney. Operation revealed a suppurating hydatid which had developed behind the descending colon below the kidney. {h) A man, set. 55, had suffered for many years from sciatica, and a large swelling formed with accompanying emaciation and fever. The con- dition was diagnosed as a retroperitoneal abscess, and was in fact a suppurating hydatid cyst. Pelvic Echinococci are not common. In the female sex they are usually situated in the broad ligament, ovary, uterus, or pouch of Douglas, and an exact diagnosis can hardly ever be made unless the cyst rupture externally. A case affecting the Fallopian tubes is recorded in vol. iii. p. 253. Echinococci in Bones.—Targett in 1894 stated that there were records of 76 cases. The echinococcus develops either in the medullary canal or in spongy bone. It is as a rule, but not invariabl}-, the exogenous variety which is found. Brood-capsules and hooks are rarely seen, the echinococcus is not surrounded by a true fibrous capsule, and slowly infiltrates the bone. The medullary canal becomes distended, egg-shell crackling can sometimes be elicited, and the bone is very liable to be fractured. The condition is usually painless, the surrounding soft tissues are often invaded, so that at some part or other a cystic swelling approaches the surface, and the disease in the later stages is often com- plicated by periostitis and necrosis. Stirling (1896) relates that a man, set 43, had for five years noticed a slight swelling of the left thigh near the great trochanter. Since 1880 this thigh had been fractured by very- slight violence five times. The patient was a healthy-looking man, well nourished, and had not suffered much pain, but the swelling had increased rapidly. The left thigh was foinid to be greatly enlarged in its whole extent, but especially at the upper part. The swelling was uneven and elastic in some places, especially at the inner and upper part of the thigh, where there seemed to be a distinctly cystic condition. Over the great trochanter there was a large, apparently solid tumour. There was no pulsa- tile movement and no lymphatic enlargement. The hydatid suppurated, the patient died, and at the post-mortem there was a large mother- cyst lining the cavity in the bone. The symptoms of hydatid disease in the vertebrfc may simulate those of Pott's disease ; hydatid disease of the cranial bones produces a