HEREDITY 173 ance and is at the same time the potential inheritor. This is a biological commonplace, as a statement of fact quite indisputal)le, never- theless bristling with difficulties. Some of these difficulties, however, are incidental, not intrinsic. Thus, though it is interesting to ask how a heritable organisation, supposed to be very com- plex, may be imagined to find physical basis in a microscopic ovum and in a spermatozoon which may be only ixy^Tj^jy of the ovum's size, the same sort of question may be raised in regard to ganglion cells ; it is not distinctively a problem of heredity. It may, however, be recalled (1) that the physicists report that the image of a Great Eastern filled with framework as intricate as that of the daintiest watch does not exaggerate the possibilities of molecidar complexity in a spermatozoon, whose actual size may be less than the smallest dot on the watch's face; (2) that in development one step con- ditions the next, and one structure often grows out of another, so that we are not forced to stock the microscopic germ-cells with more than initiatives ; and (3) that development implies an interaction between the growing organism and a complex environment, without the stimu- lus of which the inheritance would remain un- expressed, and that the full - grown organism includes much that was not inherited at all, but has been acquired as the result of nurture or external influence. And, again, it is alto- gether inexpedient to lay on the shoulders of the student of heredity the burden of inter- preting the orderly and correlated succession of events by which the fertilised egg-cell gives rise to an embryo. This is the unsolved problem of physiological embryology, and raises questions quite distinct from those of heredity and in- heritance. But when these incidental difficulties are set aside as irrelevant, there remains the intrinsic difficulty of accounting for the germ-cell's com- plex, ready-made organisation and marvellous potentiality. One suggestion is expressed in the theory of pangenesis, which occurred at intervals in the long period between Democritus and Darwin. On this theory the cells of the body are supposed to give off characteristic and representative gemmules; these are supposed to find their way to the reproductive elements, which thus come to contain representative samples of the various components of the body, and are therefore able to develop into an off- spring like the parent. This theory involves many hypotheses, and is avowedly unverifiable in direct experience, but it is more to the point to notice that there is another theory of heredity which is on the whole simpler, which does, on the whole, fit the facts better. Til is second theory is expressed in the phrase "germinal continuity," and has been independ- ently expressed by a number of biologists, though Weismann has the credit of its elaboration. There is a sense, Mr. Galton says, in which the child is as old as the parent, for when the parent's body is developing from the fertilised ovum, a residue of unaltered germinal material is kept apart to form the future reproductive cells, one of which may become the starting- point of a child. In many cases scattered through the animal kingdom (e.g., Ascaris and Sagitta among worms, Moina among crustaceans, Chironomus among insects, Phalangidse among arachnids, Micrometrus aggregatus among fishes) the beginning of the lineage of germ-cells is demonstrable in very early stages before the differentiation of the body-cells has more than begun. Thus in the development of Ascaris megalocephala of the horse, according to Boveri, the very first cleavage divides the fertilised ovum into a cell which is the ancestor of all the somatic cells, and another, which is the ancestor of all the germ-cells. But in many other cases, notably in plants and in the higher animals, the segregation of germ-cells is not demonstrable luitil a relatively late stage. Therefore, while the keystone of Weismann's theory is that the germinal material which starts an offspring owes its virtue to being materially contiinious with tiie germinal material from which the parent or parents arose, he does not suppose a continuous lineage of recognisable germ-cells (for this is often unrecognisable), but a continuity of the gevva-jdasm; that is, of a specific substance of definite chemical and molecular structure which is the bearer of the hereditary qualities. According to Weismann, a part of the germ-plasm contained in the parent egg-cell is not used up in the construction of the body of the offspring, but is reserved unchanged for the formation of the germ-cells of the follow- ing generation. Thus the parent is rather the trustee of the germ-plasm than the producer of the child ; and in a new sense the child is a chip of the old block. Similar material to start with, similar conditions in which to develop, therefore, like tends to beget like. It should be carefully noticed that while early segregation of the germ-cells is in many cases an observable fact—and doubtless the list of such cases will be added to—the conception of the "germ-plasm" is hypothetical, just as the con- ception of a specific living stuff or " protoplasm " is hypothetical. In the complex microcosm of the cell we cannot point to any one stuff and say " this is protoplasm " ; and it may well be that vital activity depends upon the interactions of several complex stuffs which, like the members of a carefully-constituted form, are character- istically powerful only in virtue of their inter- relations. Still less can we demonstrate the "germ-plasm," even if we were able to show that its physical basis is in the chromosomes of the nucleus. The theory has to be judged, like all conceptual formulae, by its adequacy in fitting facts.