INTESTINES, DISEASES OF 523 in innumerable varieties. It may be said at once that attempts to isolate and classify the bacteria found in the intestine are most incom- plete, for the task is herculean. 'The Role of Bacteria in Health.—Bacteria or spores are introduced into the stomach at every act of deglutition. Many are destroyed, some are aerobic, and by being deprived of oxygen, die; others are destroyed by the hydrochloric acid of the stomach, which is a germicide, while others find no suitable pabulum for their nutri- tion and growth. By the germicidal action of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice the formation of decomposing products and other disturbances produced in the normal course of digestion is prevented. The comma bacillus of cholera is readily destroyed by the gastric juice, as is also the bacillus of splenic fever, though its spores are unaffected. Many patho- genic bacteria are unharmed by the gastric juice, e.g. tubercle bacilli. It is a noteworthy fact that the average amount of hydrochloric acid found in the gastric juice practically coin- cides with the amount required to kill experi- mentally most fermentative and many patho- genic bacteria. The Action of Bacteria on Digestion.—In the normal state of the intestinal tract bacteria aid the various secretions and their enzymes, but to what extent is doubtful. Growth and normal nutrition can go on without the presence or assistance of bacteria, as has been proved ex- perimentally by placing newly-born animals in sterile media and feeding them on sterilised food, when they grow and thrive as satis- factorily as imder their usual conditions. In the stomach, on account of the action of hydro- chloric acid, little digestion by bacterial action takes place. In the early stages of gastric digestion, before the hydrochloric acid is fully active, carbohydrates undergo, to a slight ex- tent, lactic acid fermentation, but proteids and fats are not attacked to any extent, if at all. In the intestine the bacterial action is more vigorous. The less acid reaction of the intes- tinal contents favours this, but it is also sup- posed that organic acids are set free by the action of bacteria on carbohydrates, and that these acids to some extent inhibit bacterial action on the putrefaction of proteids. A con- dition favourable to their activity and one antagonistic appear therefore to go on side by side. Proteids in the intestine are first slowly dissolved and converted into albuminoses and peptone; then these along with the tyrosin of tryptic digestion are broken up into various aromatic compounds, such as indol, skatol, and skato-carbonic acid by bacterial action. Carbo- hydrates are affected earlier than proteids. Starch is practically decomposed into sugar, and sugar already converted is further decom- posed into lactic, butyric, and succinic acids. What change is affected on cellulose during digestion is entirely by bacterial action, or, otherwise stated, bacteria are the only agents which alter cellulose. On fats under normal conditions little action is produced by bacterial action, but in the absence of bile or pancreatic juice they are converted into fatty acids, which pass out of the body unabsorbed in the fseces. The Role of Bacteria in Disease.—Pathogenic bacteria may be introduced into the intestine and directly cause specific disease (typhoid, tubercle, etc.), or those already existing in the intestine may, under altered conditions of nutri- tion, multiply and be converted fi'om sapro- phytic into pathogenic organisms. The exact conditions under which saprophytic bacteria become pathogenic are very imperfectly under- stood, but it would seem as if a simple abrasion of the mucons membrane, the presence of enteritis, defective circulation, local or more general, and even a lowered condition of the body, is sufficient to allow of this change. As illustrations we may mention that in some cases of appendicitis the inflammation is produced by the entrance of the bacillus coli into the mucous membrane eroded by an enterolith or other cause; or cases of uncomplicated enteritis from a mechanical irritant are followed by a putrid diarrhoea of bacterial origin. The intestinal wall in its healthy state effectively resists the passage of bacteria through it, but in certain diseased conditions, as, for example, gangrene following strangulated hernia, peritonitis, etc., bacteria are able to pass through the walls, and cause definite lesions in the intestinal wall itself and in the adjacent peritoneum. The pathological changes following may result either by direct action of the bacteria themselves or by their toxins. In the intestinal digestion of proteids the putrefactive bacilli which produce poisonous nitrogenous and alkaloid bases known as ptomaines do not flourish vmder normal con- ditions, and consequently none are normally present in the intestine. They may be, how- ever, introduced through the medium of tainted meat, either as bacteria capable of elaborating these bases, or as ptomaines already elaborated. Authorities are not in agreement as to the period of production of ptomaines in the process of putrefaction, some holding that they are late, others that they are early products. If a single variety of intestinal bacterium becomes ab- normally active, it is probable that others, on account of the altered conditions produced, will become pathogenic also. A few of the more important bacteria found in the intestine deserve special attention. 1. Bacterium coli communis is present in both the small and large intestine in health, and to it are ascribed many of the useful physiological functions of intestinal bacteria. Under normal conditions it is saprophytic, but under altered conditions of nutrition of the intestine or