232 HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF and injurious pressure upon one another. 71ie head of the femur undergoes absorption from above downwards ; it loses its spherical shape, becomes flattened or truncated, or may dis- appear altogether; the neck of the bone in its turn may be absorbed. In the acetabulum the bone is absorbed in an upward and back- ward direction under the influence of the pressure exerted by the head of the femur; the socket is thereb}^ enlarged and elongated towards the dorsum ilii; by active formation of new bone an attempt is made to maintain a buttress for the head of the femur; but the further progress of the disease may result in a further absorption of bone and a still greater enlargement of the socket; the lower and anterior part of the acetabulum, which is no longer in contact with the head of the femur, is filled up with granulation tissue, which may or may not be tuberculous. To this progressive enlargement and displacement of the socket Volkmann gave the suggestive name of " wandering acetabulum." Its clinical import- ance is obvious, since the resulting displacement of the femur is the most important cause of actual shortening in advanced, and especially in untreated cases of hip disease ; the displace- ment may be so considerable as to simulate a dorsal dislocation; the pi'ominent posterior edge of the enlarged and displaced socket may be felt as a hard swelling above and behind the great trochanter. Among the secondary results of tuberculous disease at the hip special mention must be made of the occurrence of dislocation; this may result from the alterations in the bones already de- scribed, or from destruction or softening of the capsular and round ligaments, or from a com- bination of these; the displacement of the head of the bone may be further assisted if the acetabulum has been largely filled up with granulation tissue. The direction of the displacement is nearly always upwards and backwards; the dislocation may be complete on to the dorsum ilii, or it may be incomplete ; in the latter case the head rests on the upper and posterior edge of the acetabulum, and presents a deep groove corresponding to the line of contact. The formation of abscess, which is such a frequent accompaniment of hip disease, usually proceeds from the joint itself, and the abscess usually communicates with the joint through an opening in the capsule. The abscesses within the pelvis usually communicate with the joint through the acetabulum. Abscesses may form in the vicinity of the joint from an extra-articular focus of tubercle at the base of the neck or in the great trochanter. Clinical Features.—For convenience of de- scription it is customary to divide these into stages, although never sharply defined from each other nor pi'esent in every case of the disease. There is usually a well-marked stage of onset characterised by a voluntary limp, by pain, and by restriction of the movements of the joint; a second stage with abduction of the limb and apparent lengthening, and a third stage with adduction and apparent or actual shortening. Of these stages, the first may be absent or may escape observation, the second is very typical of hip disease, but may also be absent, inasmuch as cases are met with of an acute type in which the attitude from the outset is one of adduction. The third stage is the one most often absent, either because the patient has recovered before reaching it, or because the adduction by which it is characterised has been prevented by treatment. The formation of abscess may take place at any stage in the progress of hip disease. Initial Stage. — This probably corresponds either to disease which is still confined to the synovial membrane or to a lesion in the bone which has not yet opened freely into the cavity of the joint. The onset of hip disease is usually so insidious that the patient or his friends are rarely able to define the date on which it com- menced. If injury is alleged as an exciting- cause, some weeks usually elapse between the receipt of the injury and the onset of symptoms. In the case of a child it is usually brought for advice because it has begun to limp. The statement may be made that it has become pale, that it has ceased to take its food well, that its sleep has been disturbed, and that the pain and the limp, after coming and going for a time, have become more continuous and pronounced. On asking the child to walk, it may be observed that the affected limb is dragged in such a way as to avoid movement of the hip, and to substitute for this, movement of the pelvis ; the child rests the weight of the trunk on the affected limb as little as possible, aud inclines to rest on the balls of the toes rather than on the heel. There is usually some wasting of the muscles of the thigh and slight flattening of the buttock. Diminution or loss of the gluteal fold indicates a degree of flexion at the hip which might otherwise escape notice. Pain is complained of in the hip or shooting down to the inner side of the knee (through the obturator nerve); sometimes the pain is con- fined to the knee, and if the practitioner restrict his examination to this joint he may overlook the disease at the hip. At this early stage the attitude of the limb is not constant; it may be quite natural at one time and slightly flexed or abducted at another. Tenderness of the joint is of little diagnostic importance ; it should be looked for either in front or behind the head of the bone ; complaint of pain on driving the head against acetabulum may occasionally assist in the recognition of hip disease, but the diagnostic value of the procedure has been overrated. Most stress is to be laid on testing the functions