77 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM girls, in producing minor degrees of cardiac dila- tation, must not be overlooked. In exophthalmic goitre or Graves'disease, most common in females, tachycardia and irregular cardiac action may be followed by evidences of dilatation and muscle failure. In modifying or increasing already existing physical cardiac deficiencies, the influence of pregnancy on the circulation, including in- creased artei'ial tension, must be remembered. Malignant endocarditis has been known to follow parturition. (3) Age or j^eriod of life is a factor of great importance. Three periods may be recognised : •—Firstly, that of development (including foetal life), where maldevelopment and inflammatory processes along with their consequences may be expected. Secondly, the period of maturity, when the effects of strain and the influence of toxic agents, especially alcohol, are liable to be manifest, and when also the mechanical de- ficiencies of previous valvular involvement are apt to become apparent. Thirdly, the period of decline, when affections arising from mal- nutrition associated with vascular disease and degenerative changes are found. Of diseases peculiarly prone to affect young subjects, and at the same time leave permanent crippling of the heart, rheumatism stands pre- eminent. Rheumatic fever and rheumatism in " silent" and easily overlooked forms, con- stituting little more than " growing pains," are very common in early life. This is also the period for the incidence of chorea, which is very often associated with endocarditis, and not infrequently with some degree of mj'ocardial involvement. Scarlet fever, and possibly some of the other infectious fevers, may exceptionally inflict injury on the endocardium in childhood. It would also seem as though a rheumatic endocarditis might be the first and only manifestation of the rheumatic poison. Speaking broadly, peri- carditis and endocarditis are peculiarly the cardiac affections of the developmental period of life. The older a person grows the less liable is rheumatism, even though it occur, to inflict serious injury. In adolescence, when activity and instability ax-e striking features in the organism's develop- ment, so-called functional derangements readily arise. In the period of adult life, as already indi- cated, the effects of strain on a healthy or already crippled heart, either from improper, i;nsuitable, or excessive work or ill-regulated exercise, commonly become manifest. In certain classes of the male community "alcoholic heart" is apt to be developed. The effects of other toxsemic states may become manifest, particularly those resulting from gout and Bright's disease. Syphilitic disease of the aorta and forms of atheromatous aortitis may by encroachment on the orifices of the coronary arteries or extension to the aortic cusps give rise to anginal attacks or the signs of aortic incompetence. In the female, at both ends of the period of sexual activity, functional derangements are common. In chlorotic females a certain degree of cardiac dilatation is frequently detected. The influence of pregnancy, parturition, and lactation must not be lost sight of, especially in the case of a heart in any way crippled. Mitral stenosis is the common cardiac lesion of adult females. Conditions of mitral regurgi- tation through a dilated auriculo - ventricular orifice, as the result of a rheumatic valvulitis, are not met with in either sex so commonly as was formerly believed, and certainly cases of mitral regurgitation through a dilated orifice with sclerosed segments are but rarely seen in the post-mortem room. The possible existence of mitral stenosis should always be carefully considered in every female presenting evidences of mitral incompetence and having an old rheumatic history. In the advanced stages of middle life a tend- ency to general adiposity becomes apparent, and in many instances enormous deposition of fat in and around the heart impedes its action and impairs its nutrition, and not infrequently is associated with distinct degenerative changes which may lead to actual dilatation of the ventri- cular cavities. In the later years of life processes of de- generation and infiltration lower the vitality and physical powers of both heart and vessels. Arterio-sclerosis paves the downward path. The coronary arteries are frequently the first to suffer, thereby diminishing or cutting off an adequate nutrition of the essential structure of the heart. Hence follow atrophy, fatty de- generation, fibrous transformations, and possibly aneurysm, softening, and it may be rupture of the ventricular walls. In old people, although by no means limited to them, chronic Bright's disease often leads to associated cardiac hypertrophy, which sooner or later gives place to dilatation and its con- sequences. In the years of diminishing vigour atheroma of the aorta is common, and either by extension of the atheromatous process to the aortic valves, or from enlargement of the aortic ring as a result, dilatation of the aorta and incompetence of the aortic valves may be produced. In cases of this kind the atheromatous condition may have extended to the coronary vessels, or at least have narrowed their orifices, thereby im- pairing the nutrition of the myocardium, and rendering adequate compensatory hypertrophy of the left ventricle imperfect or of short dura- tion. At this time of life anginal attacks may occur. (4) Temjjerament.—It is very difficult to de- cide to what extent " the sum of the physical