555 INTUBATION for antitoxin to stop the spread of the disease without exposing the patient to a tracheotomy. The disadvantages are unfortunately more numer- ous. In the first place, it cannot be said to give rest to the affected part. Secondly, the tube may push down membrane before it, and so in- oculate the larynx lower down. Thirdly, if the membrane is loose, it may be even rolled up in a ball by the introduction of the tube, and absolutely plug the larynx below the point of the instrument. And although these objections which are largely theoretical may be discounted, it is impossible to dispute that the operation is totally unsuited for general practice. In the first place, constant practice is required if the operator is to give his patient every chance. Secondly, a nurse cannot replace a coughed up tube as she can that of a tracheotomy, and as this accident frequently happens, unless a doctor can be always on the spot the patient's life is not safe. In infectious hospitals, however, where a large amount of diphtheritic croup is treated, and where there are resident medical men, the in- troduction of antitoxin has given a new lease of life to intubation as an operation. It is always worth trying in the first place, and if it does not relieve the patient, tracheotomy should be done at once without waiting too long. It is quite unusual nowadays to see membrane spread after antitoxin has been given in adequate doses, and therefore the objections regarding the inocula- tion of healthy parts of the larynx no longer hold. There is no reason why an operation which is so popular in America and France should not give good results in hospital practice in this country.^ Intussusception. See Intestines, Surgical Affections of {Intestinal Obstruction, Causes); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of In- fancy {Constipation); Peritoneum, Acute Peri- tonitis, General {Etiology). ^ The usual instruments used are those of O'Dwyer. They have been modified by Colin, whose tubes are shorter and whose introducer is more easily kept clean.