106 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM localisation, and ultimately by its as extra- ordinary extent of distribution. The first peculiarity is exemplified by such rarities as the scrotum being for a time alone affected, the second by the whole surface of the trunk becom- ing very dropsical, so that a deep and long- lasting indentation can be made with the finger all over; sometimes the scalp is similarly in- vaded. In a case of the kind the oedema is sometimes particularly noticeable over the sternum, where a massive pad, pitting an inch or more deep on pressure, is often formed. Over the lower back is a common localisation for dropsy, and this " pitting " over the sacrum may be found actually when there is no dropsy of the lower extremities. This, of course, happens usually in patients who have been recumbent for some time. The frequency of kidney com- plication towards the end of cardiac cases is very great, and the writer at one time placed this question before himself. Do the upper extremities ever become cedematous in heart cases in which there is no albumin in the urine 1 and he was soon able to answer the question in the affirmative, though the occurrence is rare. Even dropsy of the face may occur under the same circumstances, though imquestionably it is very much less common than in Bright's disease of the kidneys; in the former case it is never an early dropsy, and is probably always associated with an extensive development of dropsy elsewhere. A comparison of the two dropsies, that dependent on kidney disease and that dependent on heart disease, results in bringing into relief rather their points of re- semblance than their points of difference; we exclude from consideration the numerous cases of heart failure secondary to Bright's disease, cases into which a cardiac element is introduced. Serous exudation into the subcutaneous cellular tissue is very likely to be accompanied by serous effusion into one or more of the serous sacs— pleura3, pericardium, and peritoneum—but it is often difficult to be certain that a given effusion is a dropsy in the ordinary sense, and not of inflammatory origin. This difficulty is specially met with in the case of pleural effusions, the lung complications in heart disease being so numerous and so apt to set up secondary pleuritic effusion while apparently priniary pleuritis is far from rare. Hydrothorax in the sense of simple plural dropsy is generally bilateral, but so may pleuritic effusion be, while simple drops}' may occur on one side only, because the pleural sac on the other side has been obliterated by old adhesions, in which case the lower part of the corresponding lung becomes cedematous. It is a curious fact that ascites is apt not only to he specially pronounced in cases of mitral stenosis, but may actually be the only dropsy present. The circumstance is no doubt associated with the special pronouess of the liver to suffer from venous stasis in that disease, and with the long duration of the lesion per- mitting secondary changes to be developed in the organ. 3. Enlargement of the Liver.—This is so marked a feature of the disturbance of the cir- culation resulting from heart failure that it is fully entitled to be placed with the other two symptoms we have considered as cardinal. Stokes admirably described the condition in 1854.1 Speaking of an exacerbation in a heart case, he says : " It is under these circumstances that the already enlarged liver exhibits a rapid increase of tumefaction, in a few hours descend- ing far into the abdomen, yet on the subsidence of the attack returning to its ordinary volume, when it may be felt as a flat indolent tumour extending for an inch or more below the false ribs " (p. 257). When we consider the peculiarities of the portal circulation it is not surprising that the liver should be specially susceptible to the venous stasis resulting from heart failure. That the swelling of the organ, noticeable under the circumstances, is due essentially to the vascular engorgement, is plain not only from the rapid diminution of the organ that can be traced at the bedside when the general circulation is restored, but also from the result of post-mortem examination of patients, who die with the organ engorged, but whose livers collapse on cessation of the circulation. The late Dr. Murchison divided the enlargements of the liver into the painful and painless varieties, and the enlarged liver of heart disease certainly belongs to the painful variety, but the pain is slight till the organ is pressed upon. Other- wise the organ is smooth, but feels somewhat indurated. This apparent induration (as the tenderness probably) is no doubt accounted for by the tightening of the capsule of the liver as its contents are increased imder pressure, for it rapidly diminishes, and often disappears in a few days—in fact as soon as the circulation is restored and the venous stasis relieved. We have incidentally referred to ascites being occa- sionally the only dropsy pi-esent in cases of mitral stenosis,—generally cases of long stand- ing,—and the fact is imdoubtedly associated with another fact often observed in cases of the kind, namely, that the liver may be found greatly enlarged and tender on pressure while yet there is not—nor has been—a trace of dropsy of the lower extremities. There can be little doubt that the liver and portal circulation suffer specially in the venous stasis of mitral stenosis, though why this should be so is not clear. Icterus is exceedingly common in the later stages of cardiac disease in association with venous engorgement of the liver. The stools, however, usually contain bile. When there is marked cj'anosis, as well as jaundice, the ^ Tlte Diseases of the Heart ami the Aorta. Dublin, 1854.