165 HEMERALOPIA Hemeralopia.—Night-blindness, or in- ability to see in insufficient light (twilight) or at night. This is the ordinary non-etymological meaning of the word (regarding it as synony- mous with nyctalopia), but the correct significa- tion on etymological grounds is day-blindness, or inability to see objects in daylight or in strong light, with ability to see them in twilight. The latter is the sense understood iu the Nomenclature of Diseases (London 1906), and in Murray's JSfeiv English Dictionary. See Choroid, Diseases of {Congenital Affections, Albinism); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnor- malities of Iris); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Disappearance of 3fela7iin, Albinism). Hemeraphonia.—Loss of voice during the daytime ; usually hysterical. Hemiacephaly. See Hemicephaly. He mi achromatopsia. See Vision, Field of {Hemianopia). Hemialbumln. — A constituent part of albumin thought to be changed into hemi- albumose during digestion; it may be found in the urine. See Digestion and Metabolism {Metabolism of Proteids). Hemialg^ia.—Fain situated on one side only; unilateral pain. Hemianaesthesia. — Unilateral in- sensibility or aufEsthesia, met with in cerebral haemorrhage (on the opposite side from the lesion), in unilateral cord lesions, and in hysteria. See Brain, Affections of Blood - Vessels {Haemorrhage, Localising Phenomena); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Phenomena, Sensory); Chorea {Symptoms, Sensory); Hysteria {Sen- sory Disorders, Atuesthesia). Hemiartopia. See Amblyopia (Varieties, Due to Changes in the Optic Nerve); Brain, Physiology of {Sensory Centres, Sight, Homony- mous Hemianopia); Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Hcemorrhage, Symptoms); Retina and Optic Nerve {Optic Nerve, Anatomy and Physi- ology) ; Vision, Field op {Hemianopia). Hemianopsia. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Localisation of Lesion produc- ing Nerve Deaf ness); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Paralysis ivith Sensory Disturb- ances) ; Brain, Tumours of {Localising Syrn- ptoms, Sight); Hemiplegia. See also Hemianopia and its Ckoss-References. Hemianosmia. — Unilateral loss of smell. See Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Anosmia). HemiathetOSiS. —Athetosis affecting one-half of the body. See Athetosis. Hemiatrophy. — Unilateral atrophy. See Facial Hemiatrophy ; Cheek, Fissure of {Associated Malformations). Hemicephaly.—Anencephalus {q.v.). Hemichorea. — Chorea affecting only one side of the body. See Chorea {Symptoms); Brain, Inflammations {Encephalitis, Sequelae). Hemic rani a. — Unilateral headache or migraine. See Indigestion {Special Forms, Hemicrania). Hemicraniectomy. — The exposure of one-half of the brain by dividing the vault of the skull near the middle line and pressing the side outwards (Doyen). Hemidesmi Radix. —The root of Hernidesmus indicus or Indian Sarsaparilla; it is used for the same purposes as sarsaparilla; it contains tannin and hemidesmic acid (the sup- posed active principle); its preparation {Syrupus Hemidesmi) is given in doses of ^ to 1 fl. dr.; but it is not generally regarded as having any marked pharmacological action. HemidiaphoresiS. — Unilateral per- spiration. HemignathUS.—Congenital absence of one-half of the lower jaw. Hemihypertrophy. —Unilateral over- growth, or hypertrophy limited to one side of the body. See Facial Hemihypertrophy ; Head {Symmetry, Hemihypertrophy); Hyper- trophy. Hemimeius.—The teratological type in which one or more of the four extremities ends in a more or less tapering point or stump resembling that left after an amputation. See Teratology. HemimyocionuS. —A un ilateral clonic convulsion of the body. Hemiopia.—Loss of vision over one-half of the retina ; hemianopsia. See Pupil {Nervous Mechanism, Hemiopic Pupil of Wernicke). Hemipag'US. — Twins united by the heads and thoraces, having two faces, more or less incomplete, which are united laterally, and are turned more or less from the abdominal aspect; diprosopus monopedius. {See Ballan- tyne's Antenatal Pathology, ii. 632). Hemipieg^ia. Vario7is Forms of . . . . .166 Cotulition at its onset . . • .166 Infantile Hemiplegia . . .170 Condition in long-standing Cases . 170 See also Aneurysm {Neck, Common Carotid, Pressure Symptoms) ; Aphasia ; Athetosis {Etiology); Brain, Affections op Blood-Vessels