252 HOMO CAUDATUS Ivii. 163, 1898). As an example of this group of tails, I may cite the case described by Hennig and Eauber {loc. cit., sujn-a). The mother of the tailed infant seen by Hennig was a I-para; she was a dairymaid, and had got a fright at the parturition of a cow. Her child, a female, presented by the breech, and there was very little liquor amnii; it was only 29 cms. in length, the lower limbs being- short. The upper part of the body was well formed, and the number of vertebrfe above the sacrum was normal. The lower limbs showed P'h;. 1.—Harrison's Patient with Soft Tail. several malformations (peromely), and there was atresia ani vestibularis and absence of the labia majora. There was a post-anal dimple (foveola coccyyea) 1 inch above the base of the tail; it corresponded to the apex of the sacrum, and it was surrounded by a ring of hairs. The sacral vertebrfe were only four in number. There was a groove from the post-anal dimple to the root of the tail. The tail itself was a little over an inch in length (2-7 cms.), was somewhat triangular in form, was covered with normal skin, had some lanugo hairs at the tip, and possessed a hard coi-e. The core consisted of cartilage, made up of a proximal and a distal part, apparently representing five vertebrfe. The tail was somewhat flattened at the tip, and contained, in addition to the cartihxge, some muscular fibres (levator caudfe or extensor coccy- gis, etc.). On more minute examination the two segments of the tail were found each to consist of a small cylinder of bone (diaphysis), with two extremities (epiphyses) of hyaline cartilage; they may be regarded either as vertebrfe arrested in development, or as a parasitic appendage, but the authors regard the former as the more probable conclusion. They were attached by a fibrous band to the sacrum. Of soft tails several specimens have been reported. They may be attached or free : of the former I may mention Labourdette's case {Journ. gen. de mecL, chir., et jjharm., xxxii. 375, 1808), and those of Bartels {Arch. f. Anthrop., xiii. 1, 411, 1881) and of H. W. Freund {Arch, f.patk. Anat., civ. 531, 1886); and of the latter, those of Oskar Schteffer (Arch. f. Anthrop., xx. 189, 1891-92), of Pyatnitski (Diss, inauq., St. Petersb., 1892), of K. N. VinogradofF (Frac//, XV. 901, 1894), of W. Scheboldaefif {Zemsl: Vrach, vi. 2, 28, 1893), of K. G. Harrison (Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., xii. 96, 1901) , and of E. Hagenbach (Arch. f. Idin. Chir., Ixvi. 426, 1902) . The fxttached tail usually consists of a triangular elevation of the skin covering the lower end of the sacrum; it passes to one side of the anus and may become continuous with the raphe in front of it. Harrison's example of a free soft tail is a typical one, and calls for a brief description. In the case exhibited in 1900 by Watson {Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., xi. 114,1900) and exfimined by Harrison {Hid., xii. 96, 1901), the tail was attached to a male infant, who showed no other anomaly save shortening of the toes of one foot (two phalanges in each). The tidl (Fig. 1), which was If inch long at three weeks and 2\ inches at three months, fxrose about |- inch below the coccyx. Above its root was a groove leading to a well-marked post-anal dimple {foveola coccygea). It was covered with normal skin, hfid a firm but not a hard consistence, and it had three recognis- able segments. The basal segment was short and was evident only on the ventrfil side; the middle part was an inch in length, and was clearly separated by a constriction from the end segment ; the last-named portion was curved to the right and ventrally, and ended in a rounded bhmt extremity. There were numerous hairs, especifilly near the tip. It is very noteworthy that the tail was slightly movable : when at rest it lay extended in the middle line, but, when the child was irritated, it was contracted and the terminal segment was drawn in and flexed to the left side. After the tail had been amputated it was carefidly ex- amined. The skin was normal save on the ventral fispect, where there was some thickening of the epidermis. The sebficeous and sudori- parous glands were normal, and the hairs were obliquely inserted pointing towards the tip. The bulk of the tail was made up of areolar tissue containing much fat. There was no trace of notochord or spinal cord ; but there were