108 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM patient's posture is changed, the old view, that adhesion of the pleural surfaces above the fluid, in the latter case, was the ca^ise of the immo- bility, being quite untenable. In both cases the dull area corresponding to the fluid presents a convex boundary upwards. Vocal fremitus is always diminished, but by no means always lost. The naturally stronger fremitus on the right side must be remembered. As regards auscul- tation over the dull area there may be diminu- tion of breath-sounds in all degrees up to silence, or there may be exquisite, though usually not loud, bronchial breath-sound and bronchophony or segophony. The presence of bronchial breath-sound may be taken to mean that a considerable j^ortion of lung has been rendered airless. It is important to remember, in a case in which there is question of tapping, that a few moist sounds or even friction, when the fluid is of inflammatory origin, must not deter us from exploring, if otherwise the evidence of the presence of fluid is strong. Such adven- titious soimds are probably only met with when the effusion is partial, the sounds being pro- duced in the still air-containing lung above the eff'usion in the one case, and likewise above the effusion in the other case, at a place where the inflamed pleural surfaces are in contact, the friction sound produced between which is readily conducted along the chest wall. The writer has drawn off fluid from a perfectlj'^ dull area, over which almost loud friction sound was audible. The accumulation of fluid in the pleura is always an important fact in a heart case, for a moderate effusion may seriously interfere with the already embarrassed jDulmonary circulation, and the removal of even such an amount of fluid may afford great relief. On the other hand, just such a moderate effusion of considerable stand- ing may almost suddenly increase, so as to render the whole lung airless. How often is the physician appalled at the post-mortem of a chronic heart case, by finding one pleura full of fluid, the corresponding lung airless, and the other liuig (Edematous, when he had perhaps only thirty-six hours previously found the fluid in the pleura to reach less than half-way up the chest, and the opposite lung to be free from any sei-ious amount of oedema! This insidious though rapid development of effusion is very often the final pathological event in long- standing cases of chronic heart disease, and it is one of the accidents against which the physician should ever be on guard. The haemoptysis of heart disease finds its appropriate place of description among the symptoms of the embolic process. That haemo- ptysis docs occur, however, without the accident of embolism and apparently as a result of the general congestion of the pulmonary circulation only, is almost certain. Of this origin it is seen specially in the young subjects of mitral stenosis, in whom it is not rarely the first symptom that brings the patient under medical supervision. Kidneys.—With the exception, perhaps, of the lung, in no organ are the changes that result from venous stasis of greater practical importance than in the kidney. In the great majority of cases of heart disease there is albu- minuria, and in the majority of cases with albuminuria the pathologist would report that the kidneys were only " venously congested " ; in a certain number he would find evidence of long-standing chronic disease of the kidney (granular kidney most commonly), while in the rest he woiild pronounce the organs to have become recently inflamed, and to present the macroscopical appearances of a tubular or " mixed " nephritis. Clinically, the difficulty of distinguishing between these pathological states is often very great indeed. The writer remem- bers an old man, suffering from general anasarca, engorged liver, and pulmonary apoplexy, the results of muscle failure of his heart, whose urine was high-coloured, deposited deep-coloin-ed urates, and had a specific gravity well over 1020, and yet contained a mere trace of albumin. Surely under the circumstances a very much larger quantity of albumin would have been no necessary indication of kidney disease ? Yet this patient had exquisitely granular and con- tracted kidneys. The abundance of albumin, on the other hand, that is quite commonly pre- sent towards the end of heart cases, withoiit there being any macroscopical nephritis, is notorious. The mere presence of casts will not decide the question whether we have to do with a " congested " or an inflammatory or a degene- rate kidney, although abundance of casts, espe- cially other than hyaline, points strongly to there being more than mere congestion of the kidney. As to the nature of the casts, apart from their number, hyaline and slightly granu- lar casts are most common in cases of the simply congested kidney, while many epithelial and leucocyte casts point decidedly to actual nephritis. In long-standing cases of granular disease of the kidney with secondary muscle failure of the heart, it is, however, often ex- tremely difficult to find casts in the urine at all, because there are so few present. Thus to determine the presence of actual kidney disease in cases of heart failure, in one form or another, may be a practically impossible task. Occasion- ally the establishment of the diagnosis of kidney disease is at once attained, not by any examina- tion of the urine, but by the use of the ophthal- moscope, " albuminui-ic retinitis" being so revealed. The urine of pure heart cases is generally high-coloured—apart from the pre- sence of bile—the character no doubt proceed- ing from the congested state of the liver as well as being promoted by the concentration of the secretion. A persistently pale and compara- tively scanty urine is, again, suggestive of