226 HTP-JOINT, INJURIES OF impracticable any operation, and the surgeon must then be content to leave the dislocation unreduced and secure union of the fracture. The subsequent treatment will depend upon the amount of movement which the patient obtains. Epiphyseal Separations. — The anterior in- ferior spine of the ilium has attached to it the straight head of the rectus femoris muscle, which is rendered taut when the hip is extended, the reflected head being tightened when the rectus is used to extend the knee during flexion of the hip. Separation of the epiphysis of the anterior inferior spine of the ilium is the result of mus- cular force transmitted through the straight head of the rectus, and has occurred in young adults who were just bounding off at the begin- ning of a race, when they had been standing with one leg advanced and bent both at the hip and knee whilst the injured leg was straight. The symptoms were sudden but not very severe pain, flexion at the hip and knee with crepitus, sometimes difficult to obtain, as only a scale of bone may be detached. The treatment consists in the application of a plaster of Paris spica for a month. The prognosis is good. The epiphyseal head of the femur may be separated at any time after the age of 4 years, though the accident is most common between the ages of 14 and 18 years. It is probable that in early infancy the whole upper end of the femur may be detached from the shaft, but in older children it is an intracapsular separation of the cartilaginous head. The accident happens as a result of direct injury to the outer side of the thigh below the great trochanter when the leg is adducted and semiflexed. The injured limb is everted owing to the weight of the leg, and there is slight flexion with abduction or adduction. The eversion is sometimes replaced by inversion, due perhaps to the lower fragment being placed in front of the upper part of the bone. The great trochanter is more prominent, and lies higher on the injured than on the unin- jured side, and when the separation is complete there is muffled crepitus with very considerable shortening. The amount of movement varies with the separation of the fragments; it is usually slight, but when the periosteum remains untorn the patient may retain considerable power over his leg, for the periosteum covering a growing bone is relatively thicker and stronger than that covering a mature bone. The pain varies greatly, but it seems to be somewhat less severe than in a fracture of the neck of the femur. The injury has to be distinguished from a traumatic and from a congenital dislocation, from a fracture of the neck of the femur, from hip disease, and from a simple bruise. The Rontgen rays help materially in the diagnosis. The prognosis is generally good. Bony union occurs unless wide separation with laceration of the periosteum leads to non-union, an unfortu- nate result, which is most likely to occur in children who have been allowed to move the limb unrestrictedly in consequence of failure to recog- nise the nature of the injury. Some impairment of growth may take place in the upper third of the femur, leading to alterations in the head and neck of the bone, simulating the rachitic defor- mity known as coxa vara (see p. 229).- The treatment consists in the application of a weight and extension for three weeks, after which the patient is allowed to go about on crutches either in a Thomas splint or with a poroplastic splint fitted round the pelvis and extending down the outer side of the thigh. The prognosis is good though the repair is sometimes slow. The epiphysis of the great trochanter may be separated between the thirteenth and sixteenth years of age generally by direct violence, as by a fall on the hip or a blow on the great trochantei-, though the injury is not necessarily severe. In many cases the displacement is slight, but when the separation is complete the epiphysis is drawn upwards and somewhat backwards and inwards by the glutei and rotator muscles. Crepitus may or may not be felt, but there is always pain, swelling, and extravasation over the seat of injury. The prognosis is by no means good, for several of the recorded cases have died of septic poisoning. A long external splint, inter- rupted at the hip, should be applied as soon as possible, and the patient must be carefully examined from day to day to discover whether he has any symptoms of infective osteomyelitis. If necessary an incision should be made down to the bone before an abscess forms. Fractuebs op the Hip.—The acetabulum may be broken either through its cavity or along the rim. A fall upon the trochanter may cause a simple fissure extending across the socket, it may split the acetabulum into its three constituent parts, or it may drive the head of the femur through the base into the pelvis. Fissured fractures give rise to few symptoms besides pain and lameness, and even when there has been considerable displacement of the fragments in the more severe fractures most of the recorded cases have been diagnosed as examples of frac- ture of the neck of the femur. Such errors will probably be less frequent in the future, as the Rontgen rays can be utilised when there is any doubt as to the nature of the injury. When the head of the bone is driven into the pelvis, pressure upon the great trochanter causes deep- seated pain, and there is often evidence that the pelvic viscera, especially the bladder, have sus- tained serious injury. The prognosis of fissured fractures of the acetabulum is favoui'able, but when the head of the bone has been driven through the base the injury often proves fatal, either at once from shock or after a time from prolonged suppura- tion and septic absorption. In the simpler forms of injury the treatment