IMMUNITY 343 should be noted that there are two maha types of infective processes : one in which the morbid changes are caused by great multiplication of the virus in certain parts of the body or through- out the blood generally, for example, anthrax, and a second type in which the virus remains localised at the seat of invasion whilst the morbid changes of the body in general are due to the absorption thence of toxic products formed locally, for example, tetanus. We can thus differentiate " pure bacterial infection" from "toxic bacterial infection," and it is there- fore only natural, when dealing with specific immunity, that "simple imnmnity to bacteria" and " immunity to toxin" or " tolerance of poison" should be distinguished from one an- other. It is obvious that we cannot always draw such hard and fast lines, and many in- fective processes represent an admixture of the two types. We may regard anthrax, tuber- culosis, leprosy, and glanders (malleus) as examples of "pure bacterial infection,"—tetanus, diphtheria, and Asiatic cholera as instances of " toxic infection,"—typhoid fever, plague, in- fluenza, septico-pysemia, etc., as being " mixed forms." From a practical standpoint immunity to toxin is of more importance than immunity to bacteria, because in toxin infections, for example, diphtheria or tetanus, the transference of antitoxic serum from a specifically treated— actively immunised—animal may confer very marked protection, and may induce a cure if there has been pre-existing infection {passive immunisation), whilst in pure bacterial in- fections such protection cannot be conferred by the blood serum of an actively immunised animal, for instance in anthrax, tuberculosis, etc. In the mixed forms the success attained by passive immunisation, i.e. by serum thera- peutics, is varied, but usually slight. By active immunisation, i.e. by inoculation with killed cultures, however, man may obtain a certain degree of protection from Asiatic cholera and plague (Haff"kine). Another point of practical significance is that the natural power of resistance may be increased by certain means, and that this increase is manifested either throughout the whole body or merely in certain localised parts. In endeavours towards this end medicine touches upon what may be called the question of personal or indi- vidual hygiene, which likewise aims at increasing the power of natural resistance against disease. I. Natural Power of Resistance (Innate Immunity) A. Natural Resistance to Bacteria.—Each infective agent endangers the various species, varieties, and even races of animals to a different degree, and no infective agent is of the same danger to all. Infective agents have only a limited sphere of action in the animal kindgom, whilst most species, etc., possess a natural power of resistance against them. The human sub- ject, for example, appears insusceptible to cattle plague, fowl cholera, swine erysipelas, etc., whilst all animals are resistant to the micrococcus of gonorrhoea, to scarlatina, measles, influenza, and so on. Even closely allied varieties may mani- fest great differences in susceptibility ; for ex- ample, the field-mouse (Arvicola arvalis) is very susceptible to glanders and tuberculosis, whilst the common house mouse and white mouse are resistant. The marmot (Spermopkilus guttatus), which is indigenous to southern Russia, possesses a remarkable susceptibility to glanders. Even racial differences may play an important part. Algerian sheep, for example, are much less susceptible to anthrax than are the races of European sheep. Similarly, certain breeds of swine (Yorkshire hogs) are decidedly more resistant to swine erysipelas than are other breeds. Diff'erences are also found among the races of men. Negroes are noted for their remarkable powers of resistance to yellow fever, and in a lesser degree to malaria, yet they quickly sicken of and succumb to tuberculosis and small-pox. In identical species and races, age, the state of nutrition, and other circumstances are im- portant factors. Young individuals are in general less resistant. Young pigeons, for instance, may be infected with anthrax, whilst the older birds can be infected only when their physical state has been altered by prolonged fasting. The same holds true for anthrax in dogs, their power of resistance being reduced if water is withheld from them. Tesser and K. Miiller by feeding rats exclusively on a bread diet succeeded in rendering them more sus- ceptible to anthrax than when they are kept on a meat diet, and Charrin and Roger obtained similar results by fatigue induced by making rats run in a revolving wheel. Pasteur's experi- ments on fowls and pigeons are celebrated. The birds' normal temperature (42° C.) was lowered by immersion in cool water, and the power of resistance against anthrax was thus abolished. Many animal experiments under- taken by Wagner, Lode, and others prove that the natural power of resistance to various infections can be lowered by artificial cooling. The injection of chloral, antipyrin, or phloridzin also diminishes the power of resistance. In the human subject, besides such factors, for example, cold, as already mentioned, conditions of psychi- cal depression exert an important influence in lowering the power of resistance, as in tuber- culosis. Again, the power of resistance which is commonly present may be suspended by local injury to certain organs, or by local factors which from the outset favour the multiplication of the infective agent, or its transference into the blood. Severe bruising of the periosteum, for example, not infrequently induces pyaemia, in consequence of the staphylococcus settling