434 INFLUENZA The Cardio - Vascular System. — Influenza poisons the heart. These words perhaps will best express the disastrous efl'ect which this strange malady has upon the heart muscle, but especially upon the innervatioii of the heart. Indeed, the term " heart failure," now on every one's lips, was scarcely ever heard before the pandemic of 1889-90. The very treacherous and dangerous form of influenza known as the cardiac type may occur with or withoTit pneu- monia. The frightful ebbing of strength in many cases of influenzal pneumonia in persons of middle life or advanced in years reaches its climax in a true heart-palsy. In other cases, uncomplicated with pneumonia, the heart collapses, sometimes with a suddenness that suggests rvipture or cardiac thrombosis. In Dublin the outbreak of 1889-90 had an immediate and untoward effect in raising the mortality from diseases of the organs of circula- tion, including " heart disease," in the most general sense of the term. A marked rise in the number of deaths coincided with the chief epidemic period, the second, third, and fourth weeks of 1890. In the fourth week diseases of the circulation were returned to the Registrar- General for Ireland as the cause of death in the Dublin registration ai'ea in 30 instances, com- pared with a ten years' average of 12*2 deaths for the corresponding week. Of the 30 victims, 14 were aged between 40 and 60 years, 9 between 60 and 80, and 4 were above 80 years. In estimating the malign influence of the disease on this class of maladies, it is noteworthy that neither intense cold nor undue warmth in winter raises the death-roll from diseases of the circulatory system to any perceptible extent. This interesting fact throws into bolder relief the baneful results of influenza. The grosser lesions of pericarditis and endo- carditis must be accounted rare in or after influenza. Even evidences of myocarditis and acute degenerations of the cardiac ganglia and nerves are often sought for in vain, alike before and after death. Nevertheless, in a large number of cases the physical signs and symp- toms bear testimony to a profound influence of the poison of the disease upon the myocardium and its nerves. Breathlessness on slightest exertion, coldness and blueness of the extremi- ties, restlessness, the presence of blowing systolic murmurs at the apex, paroxysmal tachycardia, or arrhythmia of the pulse, epigastric pulsation —all point to acute dilatation of the ventricles —a pathological state brought about by changes (inflammatory or degenerative, or both) in the heart muscle and in the cardiac nerves. The pulse is not only rapid, irregular, or intermit- tent, but its rate varies remarkably with change of position, becoming extremely rapid when the patient sits up. This is what Huchard calls the pouls instable. The toxins of influenza may affect the blood-vessels, causing thrombosis or haemorrhages, lesions which are strictly analo- gous to those which occur in the vessels in the course of other infective disorders. Nose-bleed- ing, haemorrhage from the ear, htemoptysis, hsematemesis, bloody stools, htematuria, and menorrhagia have all been observed more or less often. The Shin.—The skin may be the seat of various rashes in influenza. Thus in the hsemorrhagic variety of the disease petechiae may occur. Or again, from vaso-motor paresis, fleeting erythematous rashes (erythema fugax) may develop, resembling either measles (mor- billiform) or scarlatina (scarlatiniform). Papu- lar sweat rashes, with miliary vesicles or sudamina, are also met with. Herpetic erup- tions are especially common. In contrast to dengue fever, however, in- fluenza must be regarded as a non - eruptive fever. When the rashes just mentioned do appear, they are accidental rather than essential or specific, and they result from vaso-motor paresis, or hyperpyrexia, or profuse sweating, or from the ingestion of such drugs as quinine, phenazone and its congeners, or salicylate of sodium. Erysipelas, eczema, acute furunculosis, and suppurative follicular impetigo have also been observed as complications or sequelae. Pem- phigus has occurred in rare instances. Extreme dryness of the skin is a rare epiphenomenon. Extreme sweating (hyperi- drosis) is not uncommon. Finkler has seen a man who suffei'ed for months after influenza from hyperidrosis which nearly drove him frantic. When the man stood naked in a cool room the perspiration would literally pour in streams from his skin. It is interesting to note that in this case atropin had no effect what- ever, while the attacks suddenly disappeared after salipyrin was administered. The Kidneys.—Albuminuria is by no means uncommon in influenza, but nephritis must be looked upon as an infrequent complication or sequela. When it occurs it is a true acute in- fective glomerulo-nephritis—to use Klebs' term. Glycosuria has tolerably often been met with in or after influenza. The Digestive System.—The digestive system suffers severely in many cases of influenza, but the disturbances are of functional or nervous origin rather than pathological in character. The thickly coated tongue, foul mouth, and foetid breath have already been mentioned. There is sometimes absolute loss of aj^petite, amounting to disgust at the very idea of food, constipation, flatulence, vomiting, and less fre- quently diarrhoea. Occasionally tenderness on pressure and pain in the ileo-caecal region indi- cate the presence of a true influenzal enteritis. If to these symptoms distension of the abdomen, insomnia, delirium, rapid pulse, and enlarge-