445 INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF an hereditary tendency to insanity is 43 per cent, and to neuroses 19 per cent in addition. And yet this is not all the truth, for in spite of every care and repeated investigations there are patients of such a nature that their hereditary taint can be recognised in the symptoms of their insanity, but who are excluded from the list of predisposed either by the wilful untruthfulness of their relatives or by the absence of definite information. Heredity and JVeuroses.—We shall now con- sider in some detail how this chief cause of in- sanity occurs. The outstanding laws of heredity are well known, and have been the subject of much discussion of late years. Darwin and Weissmann have each their disciples, and with regard to the main fact they are agreed that there is a transmission of parental attributes. It is sufficient for our purpose to accept the laws of heredity in the Darwinian form, for we can- not but believe that slow and gradual modifica- tions by environment are transmissible (see "Heredity," vol. iv. p. 172). It is nothing to the purpose to search for the transmission of imperfect limbs consequent on parental amputa- tions. The law of solidarity (the transmission of ancestral characters intact) repels any such objection, which is merely a revival of early objections to the Darwinian theory of evolution. But, although the tendency is for the child to inherit every character of the parents, there are various modifying influences at work, such as prepotency. There are also toxic influences, such as syphilis and alcoholism, which are undoubtedly transmissible and alter the course of the life of the offspring. There can be no doubt that the child of parents advanced in life is endued with less vitality than the normal, and that pathological heredity follows the same line as physiological heredity. We recognise that it is not so much a transmission of patho- logical characters as a predisposition to succumb to pathological influences. The child is not born phthisical, but its constitution develops into a condition favourable for the growth of the special bacillus. Then, again, there are well-known laws relating to consanguinity and exsanguinity, which must be observed if heredity is to be maintained in the most favourable condition as regards offspring. This becomes a question of practical importance in the consulting-room, for it is occasionally asked whether a person with an hereditary predisposition to insanity should marry. The marriage of first cousins is not un- commonly proposed in families of insane hered- ity, for these individuals have an undoubted tendency to form such connections. These marriages should be forbidden if a common and near ancestor has been insane, or if there is a near inheritance in each of the separate families ; but it is permissible if insanity has declared itself in only one of the separate families. The question of inbreeding has not been discussed with moderation at all times; no doubt if con- tinued for generations it is disastrous ; but Huth has shown that arguments and facts are want- ing to prove that consanguineous marriages in healthy families cause insanity and similar evils. Insanity is a retrogression, a dissolution. It is a reversal of evolution, and as such has its beginnings in the latest evolved structures and functions of the brain. The recently acquired characters are least stable ; they have been added in course of generations by the operation of natural selection and the conditions of environ- ment. It has been said that if men gave the same attention to the propagation of their species as they do to the breeding of horses the race would have been more highly civilised, more highly developed physically and mentally. But while that is in measure true, we must recognise that the successes of the horse-breeder are few compared with his disappointments. We are in haste to be perfect, but the operations of the laws of heredity are not abrogated on that account. And the fact remains that marriages are not entered upon with that sense of responsi- bility to offspring which is desirable. Degeneracy. — What is degeneracy % Much has been written round about this subject, and we have had elaborate descriptions of the stig- mata of degeneration which are held in light esteem by those who are definitely opposed to the extreme teaching of Lombroso and the pamphleteering of Nordau. Following Morel, and making a special study of the prisoners under his care in Perth, Bruce Thomson came to the conclusion that heredity was the prime factor of criminality, and that environment determined the almost inevitable issue. He outlined the physical appearances of criminals, called attention to their malformations of body and perversions of mind. These are the stig- mata of degeneration familiar to those who are brought into contact with the criminal and the insane. They are pathological deviations from the normal type, not to be declared morbid separately. The weight of evidence declares them to be morbid, just as in the Tichborne case Orton was not found to be an impostor on one count or another, but consequent on the summation of all the counts, by the strength of the condemnation of all the evidence. It would indeed be surprising if mind did not betray weakness when manifested in a body stunted, malformed, and weakly in organisation. The nervous system is imperfect in development, and mentalisation is degraded in proportion. One would not expect a perfect mind from an organism thus morbid in constitution. The re- actions of the criminal mind are morbid in pro- portion as the criminal is degenerate. We do not desire to push this conclusion too far, hold- ing that it is but a proportion of criminals who are degenerate ; but when that proportion can be shown to exist in prisons and in asylums we