227 HIP-JOINT, INJUEIES OF consists in keeping the patient at rest with a pelvic band and a weight and extension on the injured side. This may be replaced by a plaster of Paris spica at the end of six weeks, after which the patient is allowed to go about on crutches. Fractures of the rim of the acetabulum are usually associated with direct dorsal dislocations of the femui'. The symptoms are those of a dislocation of the hip backwards with the addition of crepitus and a great tendency for the displacement to recur after reduction. The prognosis is not very good since per- manent lameness may occur from the im- possibility of keeping the head of the femur in the acetabulum. The treatment consists in reducing the dislocation, and afterwards applying a Hodgen's splint (vol. iii. p. 360 and Fig. 4) for a month or six weeks after the accident. Fractures of the Upper End of the Femur. —Although intracapsular fractures of the neck of the femur generally occur in persons over 60 years of age, they are undoubtedly met with as rare accidents in children in consequence of injuries of the same nature but of somewhat greater severity than those causing a separation of the epiphysis. The fracture is connnon in old people, because the changes which occur in the bones as a result of increasing age are especially marked in the upper third of the femur. These atrophic changes lead to an enlargement of the cancelli in the neck of the femur, whilst the compact layers of bone undergo a process of absorption which renders them particularly liable to yield when they are subjected to a strain or twist. The osteoporosis is especi- ally marked in the denser layer of bone which reaches from the under part of the head to the lesser trochanter—known as the calcar feviorale of Merkel. In women, too, the neck of the femur has to withstand a greater strain in supporting the weight of the trunk than in men, for in women the width of the haunch-bones causes the neck of the femur to form with the shaft an angle which is nearer a right angle than it is in the male pelvis. An intracapsular fracture, therefore, often occurs in persons over 60 years of age, and in women more often than in men. Falls upon the feet or knees, and blows upon the front of the great trochanter, are particularly likely to produce an intracapsular fracture, and it is often remarkable how slight an injury, especi- ally if a twisting force be applied, is sufficient to cause it. The signs (Fig. 3, 3) are eversion of the limb with slight shortening. The great trochanter is less jDrominent, lies higher, and is situated more posteriori^'- on the injured than on the uninjured side. In a few cases the eversion is replaced by inversion. Crepitus may be obtained by drawing the thigh down- wards and rotating it inwards, but it is not usually well marked, nor is it necessary to obtain it. The fascia lata is relaxed (Fig. 5) between the great trochanter and the crest of the ilium in consequence of the loss of resist- ance which is normally offered through the neck of the femur. Pain of a starting character is referred to the insertion of the psoas, and may extend down the thigh to the knee; it is in- Fio. 4.—A photograph of a case ol fractured femur treated by a Hodgen splint to show the method of suspension. The details of the spfint may be seen in vol. iii. p. 360. (From a photograph by Mr. G. B. Wynne of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) creased by adduction and flexion of the hip. There is usually much loss of power over the limb, but when the reflected portion of the capsule is untorn the patient may be able to stand upon the injured limb. The experiment, however, is a dangerous one, and should never be tried, because so long as the two fragments are held in apposition there is some chance of obtaining bony union. Impaction rarely takes place, but when it occurs the neck is driven into the head of the femur. The prognosis is most inisatisfactory, both as regards the life of the patient and the use of the limb. Old persons with feeble circulations and atrophied lung tissues are liable to suffer from serious hypostatic congestion when they are suddenly compelled to lie flat upon their backs in bed. The temperature rises, there is some bronchitis, a little wandering of the mind, and in a few days, unless care be taken, and often when