HERNIA 196 Superior Direct— Skin. Superficial fascia Intercolumnar fascia. Cremasteric fascia. Transversalis tendon. Transversalis fascia. Subperitoneal tissue. Peritoneum. Inferior Direct— Skin. Superficial fascia. Intercolumnar fascia. Colles' fascia. Conjoined or Transversalis tendon. Transversalis fascia. Subperitoneal tissue. Peritoneum. (A) Oblique Inguinal Hernia. I. The acquired form. II. Hernia depending upon congenital anom- alies in the processus vaginalis. (a) Congenital Hernia; {h) Hernia into the funicular process; (c) Infantile Hernia; {d) Encysted Hernia; (e) Hernia with retention of the testis; (/) Hernia into the canal of Nuck. III. Properitoneal Hernia. IV. Interstitial Hernia. (B) Direct Inguinal Hernia. A. Oblique Inguinal Hernia I. Acquired Inguinal Hernia.—This form of hernia generally makes its first appearance in adult life. When confined to the inguinal canal the swelling is known as a bubonocele ; after escape from the canal it becomes a scrotal or complete hernia. The sac is formed slowly and is derived from the parietal peritoneum. When the hernia reaches the external abdominal ring, it is free to enlarge in all directions. The result is that a globular scrotal swelling is con- nected to the abdomen by a narrow neck; the neck being the portion lying in the canal. As the tumour enlarges, the neck (as a result of the approximation of the internal to the external abdominal ring from traction exerted by the hernial mass) becomes progressively shorter. The scrotal portion descends down to, and en- larges in front of, the testis. The sac is never intimately adherent to the structures of the cord. II. Hernia depending upon congenital anomalies in the pro- cessus vaginalis.—These forms are probably much more com- mon than is generally believed. There may be little or nothing to distinguish an ordinary (so-called acquired) liernia from a hernia into the funicular process, and Russell lias recently suggested that all herniaj are congenital in the sense that they occur in preformed sacs derived from the pro- cessus vaginalis. It is certainly quite common to find in adult bodies a fine funicular process unclosed when there has never been a history of any hernial descent. If the upper portion of this process remained open and formed a hernial sac, the case would almost certainly be looked upon as acquired, though in reality dependent upon congenital abnormality in the processus vaginalis. (rt) Congenital Hernia is characterised by the absence in the processus vaginalis of any attempt at closure. The process remains open through- out and forms a ready-made hernial sac into which the gvit descends without hindrance. In the sac the hernial content is in touch with the testis. A hernia of this form fre- quently appeal's quite suddenly, and in a young- adult is not uncommonly strangulated at its first emergence. Constrictions, the result of attempted closure at certain points, may give rise to an " hour- ^ glass" sac. The in most common nar- —X rowing of this kind is situate at the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. (h) Hernia into the funicidar pro- cess results when the tunica vagin- alis is fashioned from the lower part of the pro- cessus, while the upper part remains unchanged. This hernia possibly forms the majority of the cases of inguinal hernia. (c) Infantile Hernia.—The term " infantile " has no reference to the period at which the hernial tumour first appears. The admirable work of Lock wood in this matter has been generally accepted by all subsequent writers. This author first described four varieties of infantile hernia. In each of them a second peritoneal process is pulled down into the scrotum behind the processus vaginalis, by an aberrant attachment of the gubernaculum. The varieties of infantile hernia depend not upon the condition of this second peritoneal tube, but upon the varying states of closure in the processus vaginalis, according as to whether this process is (1) closed below and open above; (2) closed V 9 L B -A. Congenital hernia. Fig. B.—B. Hernia into the funicular process. Fig. C 1 C 2 C 3 Fio. 7.—Infantile hernia.—4 varieties. above and open below; (3) closed above and below ; (4) open throughout. I have seen one example of an infantile sac, closed at its upper end, containing hydrocele fluid. In the un-