IMMUNITY 348 Alcohol, however, when locally applied has, more than any other chemical agent, the direct power of dilating blood-vessels and especially the arteries. In limbs which are enveloped in alcoholic bandages the effect is seen in local increase of arterial pressure, proving that the action of the alcohol is distributed throughout the whole limb. This is the explanation of the beneficial change which occurs so rapidly in cellulitis, for example, after the application of alcoholic bandages.^ D. Natural Resistance to Poison A certain degree of knowledge concerning innate immunit}'' to poison existed even in ancient times. Lucanus, in the Ninth Ode of De Hello civili, mentions that the Psylli, an African tribe, were able to withstand the bite of the asp found in their country. They also understood how to cure strangers bitten by snakes, the treatment mainly consisting in suck- ing the woimd and rubbing in abundance of saliva. It is therefore interesting to note that, according to Wehrmann {Annal. de I'Institut Pasteur, 1898), ptyalin has a definite antitoxic action against snake poison. Ages ago it was known that snake venom is comparatively harmless when in the stomach, and such a " regional" resistance to poison (Behring) is found to be very common; rabbits, for example, are resistant to morphia when administered subcutaneously, intravenously, or by the stomach, but not so to intra-cerebral injections (Roux and Borrel). Similarly with tetanus toxin in the case of fowls; they exhibit considerable resistance to this deadly toxin if it be administered by the usual subcutaneous method, jet are killed, even by small doses, if the injection be intra-cerebral. Those animals, nevertheless, which are in- susceptible to a toxin administered by the usual methods, i.e. subcutaneously or intravenously, must be denoted as "resistant to the poison." Now there are differences in the degree of resistance., and two different animal species ' Tlie alcoholic bandage consists of eight layers of gauze bandage which has been dipped and rung out in 95 per cent alcohol (60 per cent alcohol is rarely employed) and applied directly to the skin. Over this is placed a layer of cotton wool, and then gutta-percha tissue, which is often perforated. To ensure success it is important that the bandage should cover a large area, for example, in cellulitis of the hand the whole forearm should also be bandaged. The arterial dilatation is due to the cutaneous irritation associated with the dehydrating action of the alcohol, hence propyl-alcohol is more efficacious than ethyl-alcoliol, but the use of the former is not advisable, because of its unfavourable by-etfects. One result of the locally increased arterial pressure is the disappearance of oedema, and alco- holic bandages are therefore beneficial in non-inflammatory swellings. Lastly, alcohol is of great benefit in caries of the teeth. They should be cleaned twice daily with a tooth-brush which has been well moistened in water, and been then dipped in alcohol, 45 per cent or weaker. After three or four weeks' treatment the caries ceases because of the increased r.rtcri.al blood-supply to the pulp. almost invariably exhibit a different degree of susceptibility to a poison. Knorr, for example, ascertained that the following quantities of the same tetanus toxin are required to produce a lethal effect for each gramme of body-weight:— In the horse 1 unit of toxin, in the guinea-pig 2 imits, in the goat 4 units, in the mouse 13 imits, in the rabbit 2000 units, in the fowl 200,000 units. This table applies, as already mentioned, only to subcutaneous and intra- venous, but not to intra-cerebral injection. It has long been known that the hedgehog, the pig, the ichneumon, and many snakes are very resistant to snake venom, and that scorpions are resistant to their own poison, liats are very resistant to diphtheria toxin, and mice are but little susceptible. Crocodiles are very resistant to many bacterial poisons, and especially to tetamis toxin, being susceptible, however, to diphtheria toxin. The supposition that resist- ance to poison is due in all these instances to the presence of antitoxins in the animal species in question is on the whole erroneous (Vaillard); such a condition occurs only in exceptional cases, for instance, in scorpions (Metschnikoff). After the injection of tetanus toxin into turtles their blood remains poisonous for several months, i.e. capable of inducing tetanus, although the animals themselves are absolutely resistant. This is accounted for by the absence in this particular species of animal of cells and groups of cells susceptible to poison. The existence in the different animal species of these fundamental differences in regard to resistance to poison must be taken into con- sideration in attempting to explain general natural power of resistance. There are cases in which it is only because of the pre-existing resistance to poison that the phagocytes and alexins ai'e enabled to exert their protective powers. Resistance to poison must therefore be regarded as an important factor in general natural power of resistance. II. Specific Immunity As a result of recovery from a specific disease or of protective inoculation. A. Specific Immunity as a result of recovery from specific disease.—Specific protection, lasting for a comparatively long time, is conferred after recovery from an acute eruptive fever such as small-pox, scarlatina, or measles, and also after typhoid fever; and in animals after recovery from cattle plague, contagious plcuro-pneumonia of cattle, sheep-pox, contagious pleuro-pneumonia of the horse, and black-quarter (G. Rauschbrand; F. charbon s7/mptomati(/ne). There are other infective processes, however, which confer no protection, for instance, diph- theria, relapsing fever, and gonorrhoea, and after certain diseases, such as pneumonia and ery- sipelas, the individual appears to be even more liable to a subsequent attack. Malaria, too,