450 INSANITY, ETIOLOGY OF yet mental work must be moderate in intensity and in quantity, and physical excess must be equally regulated. In girls especially at this critical period great caution is required. Fatiguing muscular exertions should be abso- lutely forbidden, extremes of heat and cold should be avoided. The touchstone of success will be the establishment of physical health, the avoidance of anajmia, the broadening of interests, and the healthy avoidance of evil habits. In regard to those who have to gain a liveli- hood comes the question of the choice of a career. That must be considered in view of the mental and physical aptitudes. It seems hardly neces- sary to advise that neurotic persons should keep as close to mother earth as possible, yet there is a decided inclination among such persons to decide for emotional, exciting, irregular modes of life; and it is difficult to induce them to be content with the even routine of a government office or the bucolic delights of the country, while the stock exchange or the crowded halls of commerce beckon them on with high promises that so often end in disappointment and disaster. " The land for the people " is a cry that comes with convincing appeal in these days of over- grown cities; and when one considers the stunted degenerates of town life, one cannot but re-echo that cry in the interests of the race. The career for neurotic individuals should be free from great responsibilities, should interpose no great diffi- culties, while it should afford occasion for the exercise of healthy volition. It should be restful in the intervals of work, yet it must be remem- bered that idleness is not rest—a change of occupation and a variety of interests are both necessary. Kraepelin has shown that mental work added to physical work is provocative of exhaustion; recuperative rest in intervals of brain excitation is not to be gained by bodily exercise. The nervous system is stimulated and exhausted by both these processes, and we have to fall back upon nature's sweet restorer—sleep. We need hardly urge the importance of sound refreshing sleep, or indicate that it must be gained by natural means and not by toxic sub- stances. That brings us to a brief summary of con- clusions as regards the use of alcohol in nervous cases. We have shown that it is a widespread cause of degeneracy, and that it plays a leading part in the production of insanity. We there- fore prescribe it with grave unwillingness for the cases under review. Safety for a neurotic individual is only to be maintained by a total avoidance of alcoholic liquors or other drugs of lethe. It may be advisable in rare cases to give it as an anaesthetic in conditions of fatigue and in peril of collapse. It may be required in anaemic complications, but the possibilities of abuse render it a two-edged weapon which we shall do well to avoid using in so far as possible. There can be no doubt that those of feeble nervous constitution are liable to take extreme views in connection with religion, and guidance is required in this sphere of thought. The green sickness of youth is often characterised by bizarre opinions in religion and politics, which a greater experience of life modifies. Heinroth's theory of the common origin of in- sanity and sin was fortunately soon put aside by his fellow-countrymen ; but every now and then it crops up amongst those afflicted with certain forms of religiosity. The religion of the present day is more concerned with conduct than with forms of profession, and the religion for neurotics is of a moderate, practical nature—avoiding undue introspection or the attempted solution of insoluble questions. If a person of unstable nervous tendencies decides to marry, the most reasonable advice usually comes too late and is often taken amiss. For the women there are dangers in the pro- babilities of adverse circumstances and domestic troubles; in too rapid procreation ; in the petty worries of life which marriage so often entails. For the men, there are dangers in the greater responsibilities and the social difficulties which they undertake to meet. But objections raised in the consulting-room very rarely carry weight, and until the State interferes to limit the pro- creation of the unfit, we can only rely upon right education informing the public mind and emphasising the moral code. At present, in this transition stage, it is evident that prudence in marriage is confined to the classes who have least need to exercise it. The criminal, the reckless, the improvident put no bounds to the gratification of their desires, and the breeding of paupers and inefficients is assuredly a danger to the commonweal. Restrictive measures were not unknown in former days. Howell {Familiar Letters, Ix. pt. ii.) says—"The countries that are freest from excess in drinking are Spain and Italy; if a woman can prove her husband to have been thrice drunk, by the ancient laws of Spain she may plead a divorce from him." If we may believe Hector Bocce, Scotland did early recognise that the procreation of the unfit should be restrained. He recorded : " If any were troubled with the falling evil, or leprosy, or fallen frantic, or otherwise was out of his wits, they were diligently sought out; and, lest those diseases should pass further by infectious generation into their issue and posterity, they gelded the men. But the women were secluded to some odd place far oft' from the company of men, where if she afterwards happened to be gotten with child, both she and the infant were run through with the lance. Gluttons and ravenours, drunkards, and egregious devourers of victuals were punished also by death, first being permitted to devour so much as they listed." These were Draconian methods which marked the dawn of civilisation, and there are