IMMUNITY 373 assimilable two possibilities are conceived of— (a) The side-chain may consist of a haptophore group and a group with digestive power, and this receptor of the second order may be com- pared with the agglutinins and precipitins which appear in the serum after immunisation. (6) The receptor may possess two haptophore groups, to one of which the food molecule anchors itself, while the other has an affinity for some molecule possessing digestive properties. These receptors of the third order find their analogy in the im- mune body which needs for its bactericidal or lytic action the cooperation of the complement. Therapeutic Use of Bactericidal Sera. — The fact that for bactericidal sera to act, com- plement is essential, is fundamentally important. Let us suppose, for the sake of argument, that by inoculation we can greatly increase the immune body, and that we can inject this into a person invaded by the organism in question; we have still to face the fact that (beyond the small quantity which the immune serum con- tains) there is no more complement than formerly, and that the immune body is only available for the destruction of bacteria in so far as it can be complemented. Thus there is at once a practical difficulty, and it should be added that there is some reason to believe that an excess of immune body over available com- plement may defeat its own ends. For imder these conditions a part of the immune body may attach itself to the bacteria and another part to complement, whereupon the only way in which complement and bacteria can come into relation is by immime body uniting to immune body, which is impossible. So far, it has not proved possible practically to increase the complement. For one thing, little is known as to whether com- plements are single or multiple, and the search for a suitable one is largely at random. Again, to inject complement may simply result in the formation of anticomplement, which will neu- tralise what already exists. Antibacterial sera originally contain the complement of the species from which they are derived, but complement is an unstable body and liable to disappear as time goes on. It does not follow that the comple- ment present in man will be able to attach itself to the immune body injected ; that, there- fore, may prove useless. The whole question of complementing antibacterial sera may be said to be the crucial point on which their future usefulness seems to hinge. Phagocytosis.—The most important recent advance in connection with the relations of what we may call cellular and humoral immunity is due to the researches of Sir A. E. Wright and his collaborators on Opsonins. They esti- mated the phagocytic power of the leucocytes by counting the organisms ingested by these cells when equal parts of a standard bacterial emulsion and human blood were incubated together at 37° for 15 minutes. They further devised methods by which the respective parts played by corpuscles and serum in the role of phagocytosis could be determined, and proved that " blood fluids modify bacteria in a manner which renders them a ready prey to phagocytes." To this influence they gave the name opsonic action, and to the constituents of the serum which so act, op)sonins (oiZ-wveoj, I prepare victuals for). The method adopted is to with- draw blood by a pipette, to centrifuge and decant ofi^ the supernatant serum, and to wash the coi'puscles. The serum and corpuscles can then be tested separately against a standard- ised bacterial suspension. Wright, working with an emulsion of staphylococc^is pyogenes aureus and his own corpuscles and serum, found that the number of organisms ingested fell when serum which had been kept for four or five days, or heated to 60°-65° for 10 minutes, was used. When the serum was first allowed to act on the bacteria, and then heated, and the mixture thereafter exposed to the action of the cor- puscles, phagocytic action was unimpaired, whence it follows that serum contains some substance which so affects bacteria as to cause them to fall a ready prey to phagocytes. This opsonic power of the blood is exerted in regard to staphylo- and streptococci, B. pestis, M. Melitensis, diplococcas pneumonice, B. coli, Shiga's bacillus, B. anthracis, B. typhosus, B. tuberculosis, and the cholera vibrio. It is not exerted on B. diphthericB or B. xerosis. The nature of opsonins is uncertain. There is some reason to suppose that they are analogous to agglutinins and precipitins, and consist of a haptophore and an opsoniphore group. By comparing the number of bacteria ingested in (a) a mixture of normal corpuscles, bacterial suspension, and normal serum, and (b) normal corpuscles, bacterial suspension, and the serum of a patient suffering from a bacterial disease, a ratio, called the Opsonic Index, is obtained. In cases of localised infection with staphlococcus aureus—e.g. sycosis, boils, etc.—Wright invari- ably found this ratio, or index, lower than normal—from "1 to '87, 1" being normal. The inoculation of such patients with a vaccine of dead staphylococci is followed, first, by a tem- porary fall in the opsonic index (" negative phase"), and then by a more prolonged rise positive phase") to or above normal. Co- incidently with the rise in the opsonic index, there is a great amelioration of the lesion due to the bacterial invasion. In connection with the subject of bacterial invasion, Wright lays great stress on what he terms the bacteriotropic 2jressure — i.e. the mass effect exerted on the invading bacteria by the protective substances contained in the blood fluids. This does not stand at the same level throughout the organ- ism. In fatal typhoid or Malta fever, for in- stance, the agglutinating action may be as much as 200 times less in the splenic pulp than