185 HERNIA Conditions of a Hernia— Reducible . . . . .188 Irreducible . . . . .188 Incarcerated . . . . .189 Inflamed . . . ■■ .189 Strangulated . . . . .189 Special. Inguinal . . . . . .194 In Children . . . . .199 Strangulated . . . .199 Femoral 200 Umbilical 201 Congenital In Infants In Adults Ventral ...... 203 Lumbar . . . . . . . 203 Obturator ...... 204 Hernia of Special Viscera . . . 204 Bladder, Ovary, CcBcum, Appendix Treatment . , . . . .207 See also Appendix Vbrmiformis {Hernia) ; Bladder, In.]uries and Diseases of {Malposi- tions) ; Brain, Surgery of {Hernia Cerebri); Chest, Injuries of {Diaphragmatic Hernia) ; Cretinism {Description, Umbilical Hernia); Diaphragm, Surgical Affections of {Hernia); Fallopian Tubes {Hernia of); Gastro-In- TESTiNAL Disorders of Infancy {Constipation, Causes); Intestines, Surgical Affections of {Intestinal Obstruction, Internal Hernial); Muscles, Diseases of {Hernia); Pelvis, Per- ineum and Pelvic Floor {Rectocele, Prolapsus Uteri); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Eti- ology) ; Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs [Hernia of Gravid Uterus); Scrotum AND Tksticle, Diseases of {Malposition of Testicle); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Impotence, Causes); Umbilicus, Diseases of {Hernia). A hernia (€/)vos = a branch) may be detined as the protrusion of any visciis through an abnormal opening in the walls of the cavity con- taining it. In general use the word " hernia " is tacitly understood as referring to an abdominal hernia. In an abdominal hernia the viscus generally derives a complete covei'ing from the peritoneum, and remains always covered by the skin. There are certain regions which from their anatomical conformation, from congenital incompleteness of development, or from both, are especially pre- disposed to the occurrence of hernia. These are tlie inguinal, femoral, and umbilical. Hernial protrusions may also occur in the following situations:—at the obturator foramen, in the perinseum, at the sciatic notch ; in the lumbar region and at the linea alba or any portion of the anterior abdominal wall. All such hernijB are known as external, in contrast to the internal, which occur within the peritoneal cavity, gener- ally into certain pre-existing peritoneal fossfe. A hernia consists of {a) the sac, (/>) the con- tents, (c) the coverings. {a) The Sac consists of peritoneum continuous with and derived from the parietal peritoneum. As a general rule the sac is complete, but in certain cases, for example, " extraperitoneal " cystocele, it may be absent, and in others, such as " paraperitoneal " cystocele, it may be incom- plete. Two forms of sac are recognised : — I. The Congenital, and II. The Acquired. I. The Congenital Sac results from the want of closure of peritoneal processes normal in the foetus. Such are the processus vaginalis, the canal of Nuck, and the peritoneal protrusion at the umbilicus. These will be subsequently re- ferred to in detail. Some foi-ms of sac produced by the traction of an aberrant attachment of the gubernaculum must also be considered as con- genital. Such is the sac of an infantile hernia, and such, probably, is the sac formed from one of the pouches of Rokitansky. II. T]ie Acquired Sac, in its earliest stage, is represented by a mere laxity or bulging of the parietal peritoneum. Then at a certain point, the internal abdominal ring, for example, a dimple is formed which, gradually deepening, forms a tube-like process lying in the inguinal canal. The orifice of communication with the peritoneal cavity is now the widest portion of the sac. As the tube-like structure gradually elongates it reaches the upper part of the scrotum, and there, relieved of pressure, expands readily and rapidly, and becomes spherical in shape. To some extent the increase in size of the sac may be the result of the dragging down of peritoneum from the iliac fossa, but it is largely due to the inherent capacity for expansion under a process of stretching possessed by the serous membrane. The upper end lying within the canal is then the narrowest portion of the sac, and is known as the nec/c, the expanded lower end being known as the fmidus. During the time of the progressive enlargement of the sac adhesions form between it and the structures immediately external, so that when the sac has reached even a moderate size it is fixed, and, except imder unusual circumstances, irreducible. The neck of the sac is generally described as being thrown into folds which, from irritative inflammation, adhere to one another, and result in the formation of a constriction, a thick fibrous band, at the abdominal orifice. Such a condition is certainly rare. Since the introduction of the operations of Bassini and Halsted, which impose upon the surgeon the necessity of opening up the inguinal canal and laying bare the neck of the sac, it has been noticed that even if any pleats are present at the abdominal orifice they unfold themselves as soon as the external pressure is relieved. In not a few cases, however, the sub-peritoneal tissue is thicker at the neck than elsewhere, and by a local condensation may form a fibrous