255 HOPS constituent is Lupulin, a liquid alkaloid; but there are also present lupulinic acid, an aromatic volatile oil, resin, and tannin. Preparations— 1. Tinctura Lupuli. Dose—^-13. 2. Infusum Lupuli. Dose—1-25. 3. Lupulinum, a bright yellow powder — lupulinic glands — separated from the strobiles of the hops. Dose—2-5 grs. Hops have been used as antispasmodics and nervous sedatives in hysteria, priapism, vesical and renal irritation, and even in delirium tremens. Beer owes its soporific effect partly to the hops contained. The influence of " hop pillows " in nervous insomnia is probably largely imaginary. Hordeolum. See Eyelids, Affections OF {Hordeolum or Stye). Horn-pox.—An abortive form of small- pox, in which the vesicles dry up instead of filling about the fifth or sixth day ; wart-pox. Horns. See CoRNu; Tumours op the Skin {Benign). Horripilation.—The standing up of the hairs on the body from fear or pain (Latin, horrere, to bristle, and jnlus, hair) ; cutis anserina. Horrocks' Bag's.—Indiarubber bags for the dilatation of the cervix uteri or vagina. See Labour, Operations {Induction of Premature Labour). Horrors.—See Delirium Tremens {Visual Hallucinations). Horse. See Glanders or Farcy ; Eheu- MATiSM, Chronic {Comparative Pathology). Horse-pox.—A contagious disease of the horse; inoculation of man with the virus gives immunity against small-pox. Horse-radish. See Armoracijb Radix. Horsfail Destructor. — A forced- draught furnace for the destruction of refuse, in which a very high temperature is used. Horsley'S Putty.—A htemostatic sub- stance, consisting of carbolic acid (1 part), oil (2 parts), and wax (7 parts). See Brain, Sur- gery OF {Trephining, Operative Details). Hospital Fever. See Typhus. Hospital Gangrene.—Wound phage- daena. See Gangrene {Infective). Hospitalism.—The prejudicial eff'ects produced upon the inmates of a hospital by overcrowding (./. Y. Simpson). Hospital Sore Throat. See Pha- rynx, Acute Pharyngitis ; Tonsils, Diseases OF {Ac%ite Tonsillitis). Hospitals. Hospitals have been provided for the reception and treatment of the sick from earliest times. Hospitals supported by Government existed in India, Persia, and Arabia before the Christian era. It is declared that the sick were treated in the temple of JEsculapius as far back as 1124 B.c. Within recent years a very great development has taken place in Scotland by the provision of hospitals for the treatment of infectious diseases, and also for ordinary medical and surgical diseases in cottage hospitals. There are two distinct classes of hospitals : (1) Those for the treatment of infectious diseases, usually called isolation hospitals, and (2) those for the treatment of non-infectious diseases, sucli as ordinary medical and surgical diseases. In the first category the hospitals ai'e usually provided under statutory powers by sanitary authorities, and the cost of equipment and upkeep fall upon the public rates. There is no power by which sanitary authori- ties can provide hospitals for non-infectious diseases, as Section 66 of the Public Health Act states that any Local Authority may provide, furnish, and maintain hospitals for the use of the inhabitants of their district sufiering from infectious disease. Space entirely forbids a lengthy description of the general principles to be observed in hospital construction, and it further demands that the description shall only refer to the smaller-sized hospitals suitable for villages and small towns and rural districts. There will be no reference to maternity hospitals, hospitals connected with medical schools, asylums, workhouses, or with boarding schools; each of these would have required specialised reference to the special exigencies of the type. There are certain general conditions to be considered in the construction of all houses, whether hospitals, schools, or ordinary dwelling- houses. The first of these is the site. Site.—Site has sometimes to be determined under conditions in which the hygienic element is not the most prominent. It should be dry and not malarious, and with an aspect which gives light and cheerfulness. The soil should be open and pervious, such as sand, gravel, and chalk. An underlying bed of clay is most unde- sirable. A clay soil is distinctly objectionable. Sites on granite, trap, limestone, and sandstone are usually healthy. Where the soil is damp, draining must be resorted to, and in all cases a damp-proof course of concrete or asphalt should cover the surface of the ground enclosed by the walls. A site with a gentle slope at a moderate eleva- tion facing the south, and protected from pre- vailing winds is most desirable. A belt of trees,