375 IMMUNITY opsonic index considerably, and to maintain the high level for a long period. The injections are repeated at intervals of a week or a fortnight.] LITEKATURE.—A record of current literature is contained in :—Baumgarten. Jahresbericht d. path. Mikroorganismen.—Koch and FLiioGE. Zeitschr. f. Hyg. M. Infects. — Centralh. f. Bakt. u. Parasit., Abthl. I. — Maly. Jahresbericht u. d. Fortsch. d. Thier-Chemie. Impaction. — The condition of being firmly fixed or impacted, as when fteces in large amount become fixed in a portion of the bowel {foBcal impaction). Impa,ludism.—The morbid condition of body in which there is a special tendency to become affected with malaria (Lat. palus, a marsh). See Malaria. I m pa,r.—Unequal, odd (as opposed to even); used in the description of structures {e.g. some arteries and nerves) which are not paired; an azygous part. I m perforation. — The condition of being imperforate, i.e. of showing no opening when normally an opening should be present; the closure of the opening may be congenital or acquired; atresia. See Menstruation and its Disorders {Retention of the Menses, Atresia of Hymen or Vagina); Uterus, Malformations of (Atresia of the Genital Ca7ial). imperial Drinlc. /See Invalid Feeding {Food in Pyrexial States). impetigrinodes. See Impetigo. 1 m pet i go. See also Alopecia (Varieties); Dermatitis Herpetiformis {Diagnosis); Pre- gnancy, Affections and Complications {Cutan- eous Rashes, Impetigo Herpetiformis) ; Skin, Bacteriology of {Impetigo); Sycosis {Impetigo Contagiosa, Impetiginous Eczema).—The term impetigo {ah impetu) is applied to an eruption, or group of eruptions, characterised by the evolution of small superficial epidermic vesicles, vesico-pustules, or pustules of the kind formerly described as psydracious, and distinguished clini- cally from the larger ecthymatous pustule, the acneiform perifollicular pustule with indurated base, and from the sycosiform pustule. Not all pustular eruptions are, however, impetigo. There is a rare, primary, pustular disease of a totally different nature known as impetigo herpetiformis. In all the vesicular and bullous eruptions the contents of the lesions may be- come puriform, e.g. vesicular eczema, dermatitis herpetiformis, herpes. On the other hand, a host of pruritic eruptions may be complicated by pus formation following scratching, e.g. eczema, animal parasitic diseases, prurigo, lichen urticatus, prickly heat. As the pus formation thus secondarily complicating eruptions is prob- ably due to microbes similar to those producing the impetigo under consideration, it is evident that the subject is a very complex one. It is at the present moment being subjected to rigor- ous investigation at the hands of bacteriologists. The dismemberment of the Willanean groups porrigo and impetigo, and the transference of the constituents to the pustular or impetiginous phases of eczema, left one variety to be dealt with, characterised by contagious and auto- inoculable "favous pustules" {porrigo favosa of Willan and A. T. Thomson, impetigo favosa of Bateman), and even this was wrongly included under eczema by Hebra, and confounded by Bayer and Biett with favus on account of the name. Startin, senior, whose name is frequently mentioned in connection with the history of the eruption, identified this affection with one he had christened porrigo simplex {Medical Times, 1846), and Devergie in France also recognised its contagious nature. In 1864 and 1869 Tilbury Fox attracted general attention by his papers on impetigo or p)orrigo contagiosa, and thence- forward the literature multiplied. Fox described a vesicular eruption, primarily of systemic origin and tending to run a definite course, but kept up by secondary auto-inoculation. He proved the inoculability experimentally, and was corro- borated by van Harlingen. This definite picture was somewhat blurred by the further observation that similar phlyctenje might arise out of and around vaccination crusts, about cuts and like injuries, and that it might complicate eczema, scabies, and other affections, and vice versa. He expressly states that pediculi were absent as a rule, and in his Atlas (pi. xxiii. xxiv.) he differen- tiates between a pustular eruption, which is non-contagious and often associated with pediculi in the head, and his vesico-pustular impetigo contagiosa. The former frequently complicates the latter, he said, and so gave rise to confusion. On the other hand, J. Hutchinson, who was familiar with Startin's teaching, figured {Syd. Soc. Atlas of Skin Diseases, pi. xv. xx.) common contagiosa porrigo almost universally, but " prob- ablyaccidentally,"associated with pediculi capitis, and characterised by the formation of vesications, which dry into thick, dirty pus scabs. Extant drawings of a similar eruption secondary to vaccination crusts are alluded to. He thought the eruption produceable on an irritable skin by any kind of local irritation, and thence inocidable on other parts and on other persons by scratching. Coming to later times, Kadclift'e Crocker holds that no line can be drawn between the epidemic febrile form of Tilbury Fox and the common non-febrile, more localised, cases of less definite course, which may have their origin in the effects of scratching, and are always due to the inocula- tion of contagious/JMs independently of its source. F. J. Payne characterises the lesions as vesico- pustiiles, and states that the original source of infection is always some kind of sup2m7-atio7i, such as the pus formation in pediculosis capitis, old vaccination scabs, conjunctivitis, otorrhoea.