INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF 454 connected with each specific centre of sensation there is an associative zone that forms a corre- sponding mnemonic repository. Whether this is exactly so or not, "two facts," says Tanzi, "remain beyond dispute, namely, that tliere are associative stations, and that the anatomical connections by which these stations are united to the known centres of projection are of a specific nature. From the latter fact it is legitimate to infer that differentiated intellectual functions develop in the sphere of these con- nections." The same authority draws from the ascertained facts regarding the development, arrangement and mode of action of the cerebral nervous elements, some further very striking deductions which may be mentioned here. The psychical processes are always pluricellular phenomena ; a single cortical element is not by itself capable of lodging or producing a concrete image, not even that of an image of a luminous point that has impinged upon a single rod or cone of the retina. The cortical cell is poly- dynamic ; every central element (and especially those of the associative centres) has multiple connections with other elements, laoth peripheral and central, and may therefore be affected by a series of impressions different in origin and to a certain extent also in nature; the function of the coi'tical cell is therefore very far from being limited to a single form of stereotyped activity, but at the same time it does not consist in an indefinite capacity to receive any kind of stimulus. Every cortical cell is both an organ of reception and an organ of discharge, inasmuch as it passes on to other cells the stimulus it has received. In contact with so many other different kinds of cells, and exposed to so many forms of excitation, the cell of the cerebral cortex acquires the power of reacting in various ways and little by little, through adaptation, even that of not reacting, or of exercising a direct inhibitory influence. Another very suggestive conclusion is one that has been drawn by Lugaro. He maintains that two distinct elaborations of external im- pressions occur in the nerve centres, the one inter - neuronic, at the terminations of the afferent fibres, and the other intra - neuronic, between the wave conveyed by the dendrites and the dynamical processes that occur in the interior of the cell-body, and that the first corresponds to the intellectual phenomena, the second to the affective state. The subjective manifestation of reaction in the associative zones is the stream of conscious- ness, which has always a certain emotional colouring, and its objective manifestation is included in conduct. The stream of conscious- ness is initiated and maintained by sensory stimuli, and would quickly cease if these were completely cut off; but it is guided in its course, at least in all educated people who do not follow the mere promptings of instinct, by hierarchical representations or ideals which become habitual I reactions, and which constitute the great motive forces of conduct. As we are observed to react, so we are classified in the catalogue of intelligence as well - informed or ignorant, diligent or lazy, honest or dishonest, clever or stupid, sane or insane. We are here concerned with the ex- planation of the conditions that determine mental reactions so anomalous as to cause the individual to be placed in the last-named cate- gory. It is necessary to remind the reader, however, that insanity is essentially a legal distinction. Moreover, if the pathology of in- sanity is to be brought into line with general pathology, we must begin to distinguish be- tween " mental disease " and " insanity," for the former consists in internal reactive processes, the latter is marked by the occurrence of anomalous functional reactions. In other words, mental diseases (on the analogy of gastric diseases and renal diseases) are reactions to an inimical force that threatens the integrity of those nervous tissues that subserve the in- tellectual functions; insanity, on the other hand, essentially implies, as we shall see, the presence of a reactive mechanism that is de- fective, as a result either of disease or of genetic or germinal variation. Biologically it is a lack of adaptation to environment. Practically it is a particular form of racial degeneration or de- fectiveness, about which so much has been said in recent years. How, then, are those anomalous functional reactions that we call insanity brought about ? The possible factors are very numerous and require to be carefully analysed and distinguished. It is, however, impossible to enter into the subject in any detail here, and therefore only what appear to the writer to be the important principles will be sketched. Broadly speaking, either the external stimulus or the reactive mechanism must be at fault. The influence of abnormal sensory stimuli is greater than might at first appear. Here, how- ever, it is essential that there shoidd be no mistake as to the point of view from which the vital processes are being regarded. The re- active mechanisms with which we are concerned are those that immediately subserve the mental functions, that is to say, the associative centres. Other portions of the nervous system, including the peripheral and central sensory organs, are external to these centres and the stimuli that they convey to them are external stinudi. Among external stimuli of this kind are to be included fright, the receipt of bad news, and other similar causes of severe emotional disturb- ance. It may be questioned if such influences are capable of causing insanity without the previous establishment of some defect of the central reactive mechanism, but that they occasionally do determine the occurrence of insanity is certain. Their action may be so