335 HYSTERIA, SURGICAL ASPECTS OF twice made exploratory incisions (under protest), and in both instances the moral effect on the patient was nil. If the case be a hysterical one the treatment must be directed to the hysteria. Too much attention may be directed towards the supposed affected part by treatment being applied there. Paget dwells strongly and forcibly on this. I will, in conclusion, repeat that diagnosis is the main thing. If the case be hysterical, treat the hysteria. If, on the other hand, you have any suspicion that even a trace of disease is present, treat the local affection. It is the less dangerous mistake of the two. Hystericism.—The hysterical state. Hystero-cataphraxis.—Fixation of the uterus to the anterior abdominal wall, as in cases of persistent prolapsus ; abdominal hystero- pexy. HysterOCele.—A hernia in which the uterus constitutes one of the contents. HysterOCleiSiS.—A plastic operation in which the cervical canal is closed ; it has been employed in inoperable cases of vesico-uterine fistula. Hystero-cystocleisis.—A gynajco- logical operation, performed in cases of uretero- uterine or of vesico-utero-vaginal fistula, in which the cervix uteri is turned into the cavity of the bladder and fixed there. Hysterodynia.—Pain in the uterus. Hystero-Epilepsy. See Epilepsy {Diagnosis); Hysteria ; and Hypnotism {Thera- peutic Uses). Hysterog^en ic Poi nts. — Hypertes- thetic areas or zones of skin, pressure upon which leads to the development of an attack of hysteria. See Hysteria. Hysteroma.—A fibroid tumour of the uterus. See Uterus, Non-Malignant Tumours OF. Hysterometry.—Measurement of the length of the uterus, as carried out by means of a graduated sound or hysterometer. See Gynae- cology, Diagnosis in. Hysteromyomectomy.—The opera- tion by which that part of the uterus which contains a fibroid tumour (myoma) is removed. Hysteromyomotomy.—Removal of a myoma from the uterus by incision of the latter. HysteroneurosiS.—A nervous dis- turbance due to uterine disease. Hystero-oophorectomy.—The re- moval of uterus and its annexa, as in Porro's Caesarean section; Ceesarean hysterectomy. Hysteropexy.—The fixation of the uterus either to the anterior abdominal wall or to a neighbouring structure or organ, as carried out by the abdominal route (abdominal hystero- pexy or ventral fixation) or by the vaginal (vaginal hysteropexy). See Uterus, Displace- ments of the. Hysterophore.—An instrument for re- placing the uterus (in inversion or prolapse) or for maintaining it in its normal position. Hystero ptosis.—Prolapse of the uterus, or, sometimes, inversion of that organ. HysterOStomatotomy. — Enlarge- ment of the OS uteri by incisions, e.g. in forced delivery. Hysterotomy.—Incision of the uterus. Hystricismus or Hystriciasis.— Ichthyosis Hystrix Gravior (Gr. va-rpi^, a hedge- hog). See Ichthyosis. Hythe. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {English). later or latrOS. — A physician (Gr. laTTjp, a physician or surgeon); many compound words are formed containing this root, such as iatrochemia (medical chemistry), iatrologia (the science of medicine), iatrophysics (physics applied to medicine), and iatrophylactes (one fond of taking remedies for the preservation of health). Ice. See Hydropathy {Use of Ice). Ice-cream. See Toxicology {Poisoning by Food-stuffs, Milk, Ice-creams). Iceland. See Balneology {Norway, Sweden, and Iceland); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Foreign). Iceland Moss. See Diet {Vegetable Foods, Lichens). Ichor.—An acrid or irritating discharge from an ulcer or wound. Ichthalbin.—A compound of ichthyol with albumin (albuminate of ichthyol), given in doses of 15 to 30 grains as an intestinal anti- septic. Ichtharg'an. — A silver preparation {Merck), being thiohydrocarburosulphonate of silver, soluble in water and glycerine, and recom- mended in the treatment of gonorrhosa in the male or female. Ichthyol. — Ammonium sulpho-ichthyol- ate; ammonium ichthyolsulphonate. A dark- brown viscous substance, with a disagreeable tarry