238 HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF marked abduction extension should be applied to both limbs. In adduction it may be neces- sary to apply counter-extension by means of a perineal band. The attitude ultimately desired is one of almost complete extension with slight abduction. It is not necessary to apply the extension plaster to the limb as a whole; abnormal attitudes are more easily corrected if it is limited to the thigh. The attainment of the desired results requires skill and close personal attention. Extension is too often employed in a routine fashion without regard to the special features of the case. There can be no doubt that the more general use of extension in the treatment of hip disease has been of grea.t service in the prevention of deformity. It is capable of eliminating the common causes of shortening, viz. flexion, adduc- tion, upward tilting of the pelvis, and displace- ment of the femur within the acetabulum. It cannot prevent the shortening from arrest of growth, but this can be compensated for by a moderate degree of abduction and tilting of the pelvis. To further promote absolute rest in the attitude of extension and slight abduction additional means may be employed, especially in restless children : a long splint may be applied on the sound side, and a heavy sand-hag on the affected side; better still is a douhle long splint and cross bar. The long splint on the affected side is made with a hinge opposite the joint, so as to permit of abduction and of varying the amount of it. If there is any tendency to rotation it may be prevented by strips of strong plaster, wrapped round the thigh in a direction opposed to that of the threatened rotation, and fixed to the long splint (or sand - bag) with safety-pins. Ambidat07y Treatment.—When pain, tender- ness, and muscular contractions have disappeared, and when any faulty attitude has been corrected (or over-corrected towards abduction), but not till then, the patient is in a condition to benefit from open-air treatment. The joint is still kept at rest, and the affected limb is not to touch the ground. In children who are unable to use crutches we rely upon a double Thomas splint, a Phelp's box, a Bonnet's wire cuirass, or plaster of Paris; by using any one of these the child is converted into a rigid object, capable of being carried about like a portmanteau from one room to another, or into the open air. Personally we have had best results from the double Thomas splint, like that intended for spinal disease, which extends from the occiput to the feet. When the patient is able to use crutches the affected limb is prevented from touching the ground by fixing a high patten to the sole of the boot on the sound side. The hip-joint is kept rigid in the abducted position by a Thomas or Taylor splint, or by a case of plaster of Paris. The plaster is chiefly used in hospital out- patients who cannot be kept under continual supervision. It extends from the level of the navel to the foot on the affected limb and to the middle of the thigh on the sound limb. The plaster may be strengthened by broad strips of aluminium, and it should be renewed at intervals of from six weeks to three months. The patient is re-examined from time to time, and the treatment is continued until some time after all symptoms have disappeared, and until that phase of hip disease which is productive of deformity is passed. The duration of treat- ment will vary from six months to two years. If at any time there is a return of active symptoms the patient must again lie vip with extension to the limb. The patient or his relatives must be warned of the tendency to relapse. Counter-irritation l>y means of the actual cautery has largely gone out of fashion, but where there is much pain in the persistent hip disease of adults it may give considerable relief. It is applied upon one or other aspect of the great trochanter. When there is a deformed attitude which does not readily yield to extension, such as may be met with in cases which do not come under treatment until it has existed for some time, there is considerable advantage in correct- ing the deformity at once rather than waiting until the disease is cured This may be accom- plished under anesthesia in the majority of cases. If the tendons and fascife are so con- tracted as to prevent this they should be divided. The limb is placed in the attitude desired, and maintained there by the methods already de- scribed. When there are other indications for operative interference (see later), the possibility of correcting a deformed attitude may be an additional incentive for recommending it. Iodoform Injections into the Joint.—This pro- cedure is recommended by Krause and others. The limb is placed in an attitude of slight ad- duction audi inversion; the trocar and cannula, about 2 in. long, is inserted immediately above the trochanter major, and is pushed horizontally inwards at the level of the upper edge of the trochanter until it strikes against bone. This will either be the head or the upper part of the neck of the femur. The limb is then strongly ad- ducted and the trocar is pushed on, always in contact with the femur, until it again strikes bone. This should be the socket. The trocar is withdrawn and the iodoform emidsion is in- jected through the cannula. The procedure should be repeated at intervals of two or three weeks. Treatment of Abscess—The early recognition and prompt treatment of abscess before it has enlarged, wandered, or threatened to rupture externally, has greatly reduced the suft'ering and mortality from hip disease. The methods of treatment are the same as are employed else- where, i.e. by means of iodoform injections or by