378 IMPETIGO baths. The case has to be treated like a bad burn. Impetigo Herpetiforme Under the titles Impetigo herpetiforme (Hebra), Dermatite piustuleuse circinee et excentrique (Bes- nier and Doyon), l7ifectio7i 2nirulente tegumentaire (Hallopeau), a rare malady of much gravity has been described, characterised by the formation of superficial pustules, tending to arise in patches spreading excentrically, which invades a great portion of the skin and evolves incessantly by successive outbursts accompanied by fever. At first it was supposed to occur exclusively in gravid females, like herpes gestationis, but in later years it has been described in women apart from pregnancy and also in man. The eruption has many analogies with the pustular phases of dermatitis herpetiformis, but in the latter the pustules are mostly formed, often very rapidly, out of vesicles; in I. herpetiforme the pustules evolve as such. Whether the eruption is due to a pyjemia, or toxsemia, or a neurosis, is not certain. Kaposi has published some striking portraits (Archiv fur Dermat. 1887). Implantation.—The process of graft- ing or inserting, or the thing so ingrafted or inserted. Implantation cysts are such as form round foreign matter accidentally introduced into some part of the body {e.g. the eye). The name is also given to that form of monstrosity in which one foetus is found in the interior of another {foetus in foetu). I m potence. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Impotence) ; Morphinomania {Effects) ; Obesity {Etiology, Castration); Sterility. Impregrnation. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Fertilisation); Sterility. Impressions, Maternal. See Maternal Impressions. Impulse.—A thrust or beat {see Physio- logy, Circulation, Cardiac Impulse); also a " sudden access of volition" {see Insanity, Nature and Symptoms, Mental Functions, Impulse). Impulsive Tic—A chorea-like affection occurring in children, and consisting of in- voluntary muscular movements, explosive utter- ances {echo/alia, coprolalia), and sometimes of fixed ideas; Giles de la Tourette's Disease. Inadequacy. — Insufficiency, e.g. when the kidney or the thyroid gland is not active enough to perform its proper functions (renal or thyroid inadequacy). Inanition.—The condition of exhaustion arising from want of nourishment, either from starvation or from inability of the organs to assimilate. Incarceration. — The retention of an organ of the body in a place where it either ought not to be or from which it ought to have passed at an earlier time, e.g. the bowel in a hernial sac, the pregnant uterus in the pelvis, etc. Incised Wounds. See Medicine, Forensic (Varieties of Wounds). Incisor Teeth. See Children, De- velopment of {Dentition); Teeth. inclusion. — The shutting up of one structure or body within another, e.g. foetus in foetu, or foetal implantation, in which one foetus is contained within another (in its abdominal or cranial cavity). Incoherence. See Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms. Incompatibility. See Prescribing. Incompetence.—A defect in the per- formance of the functions of any part of the body, but especially of the valves of the heart when they close imperfectly and allow the generation of a backward current in the circula- tion. See Heart, Affections of Myocardium AND Endocardium ; Pulse ; etc. Incontinence of Faeces.—inability to control the expulsion of fteces from the lower bowel, as in torn perineum, etc. Incontinence of Urine.—Inability to retain urine in the bladder. See Micturi- tion {Incontinence); Prostate Gland {Hyper- tro2jhy. Symptoms); Urination, Disorders of {Incontinence). Incoordination.—The results of want of harmony between the will power and the action of the muscular system. See Paralysis {Introduction); Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptoma- tology, Disturbance of Gait, etc.). Incubation Period. iSee Diphtheria {Clinical History); Disinfection {Periods of Incubation and Infectiveness); Epidemiology ; Measles (Incubation); Scarlet Fever (Stages); etc. Incubator.—An apparatus in which eggs, germs, or the new-born infant can be placed and kept at a constant temperature ; a couveuse (q.v.). See Labour, Operations (Induction of Premature Labour); Sclerema Neonatorum (Treatment). Incudectomy.—Excision of the incus from the middle ear. Incus. See Physiology, Senses (Hearing, Middle Ear).