437 INFLUENZA The mucous membranes of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi show a redness of varying intensity (Ribbert), and, as a rule, are smeared with a tenacious grey or yellowish-green mucus. While these are the macroscopic appearances, Ribbert describes a very marked cellular infiltration of the mucosa, together with an engorgement of the blood-vessels,—these microscopic appearances giving one the impression of an erysipelatous process. This impression is strengthened by the fact that these catarrhal changes in the mucous membranes show a strong tendency to advance—^spreading from the nasal passages and pharynx to the larynx and trachea, and bronchi, or in the reverse direction outwards from the bronchi to the larynx, pharynx, and nose. In the lungs, the consolidation presents the appearance of splenification rather than of hepa- tisation. The cut surface of the pneumonic areas is usually smooth, wanting the minutely granular or granite-like appearance of a typical fibrinous pneumonia. PfeifFer, as a result of his microscopical investigations, is of opinion that each infiltrated area of influenzal pneumonia stands in direct relation to a diseased bronchus. The epithelium of such a bronchial tube is in- fested with influenzal bacilli, which also lie in masses under the epithelium. The same observer has also found the purulent exudation in in- fluenzal pleuritis filled with great numbers of bacilli. As regards the heart, thrombosis within its cavities, endocarditis, and pericarditis are occa- sionally found. Weichselbaum particularly states that in a number of cases the myocardium showed a distinct fatty degeneration.^ The spleen, liver, and kidneys are not often profoundly altered in influenza. As regards the nervous system, Jtirgensen describes intense hyper^emia of the membranes of the brain. A. Pfuhl of Cassel states that he found the bacilli of influenza within the blood- vessels of the brain and spinal cord in every one of a series of cases showing congestive and in- flammatory changes in the cerebral and spinal meninges. Foa of Turin found in a case of in- fluenza, fatal by broncho-pneumonia and pulmon- ary hepatisation, numerous microscopic hsemor- rhagic foci throughout the spinal cord, and in some places even degenerative changes. The heemorrhagic areas were situated especially in the posterior horns almost invariably at the periphery, the degenerated areas for the most part in the lateral horns. The grey substance and the anterior horns were not in the least altered. Hetweg speaks of an influenza hypertemia which affects the entire central nervous system. He regards the process as not an ordinary vaso- motor disturbance, but a forerunner of an in- flammation. ' Finkler, TioeiUieth Century Prmtice of Medicine, vol. XV. p. 106. Diagnosis Influenza must be distinguished from dengue, acute lobar pneumonia or pneumonic fever, cerebro - spinal meningitis, measles, or other eruptive fever in childhood, and enteric fever. Dengue fever is a tropical or subtropical disease. Its epidemics are circumscribed. The fever movement is much more decided than that of influenza. Complications seldom occur. An erythematous rash is of very constant occurrence. In contrast to dengue influenza is a non-eruptive fever. When rashes do appear they are accidental rather than essential or specific, and they result from hyperpyrexia, or profuse sweating, or from the ingestion of such drugs as quinine, or phenazone, or salicylate of sodium. In the epidemic of 1889-90, in addition to several cases of herpetic eruptions, the writer saw three cases of papular sweat rashes with sudamina, and one case with ei-ythema fugax. As to pneumonic fever, it is only in those cases of influenza which are complicated with pneumonia that any doubt arises. The dia- gnostics are—the strict lobar distribution of pneumonic fever, its entirely cyclic course, its viscid, rusty sputum, its critical defervescence. The features of influenza pneumonia have already been given in this article. Professor A. Netter, of the Hopital Trousseau, Paris, in his article on " Cerebro-spinal Menin- gitis " in the sixteenth volume of Twentieth Century Practice, points out that influenza in its nervous form presents certain symptoms which resemble very closely the symptoms of that disease. These are especially the pain in the head and the back, the general soreness, and not infrequently delirium and vomiting. The onset in both cases is usually equally sudden. Influenza may even be accompanied with suppurative lesions of the meninges as Eugen Frjinkel observed in one case. To add to the difficulty epidemics of both cerebro-spinal meningitis and of influenza have coincided. Netter is persuaded that the two diseases have been confused a number of times, even in Paris, and that the cases of "grippal meningitis," upon the frequency of which several writers have remarked, were actually instances of epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis. The diagnosis would turn on the presence of Kernig's sign of menin- gitis, and the result of a bacteriological examina- tion of the cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture, as advised by Quincke. Re- gard, lastly, should be had to the character of the prevailing epidemic. Dawson Williams observes that influenza, if accompanied by much coi'yza, may resemble \ very closely the onset of measles, and the re- semblance may be the closer if there be much depression and high temperature. The most j characteristic single symptom of the prodromal stage of measles is photophobia. In a child