HYPNOTISM 295 In this country I have only seen three cases of " gi-ande hysteria" of the true Salpetriere type. The first, treated by drugs alone, died from cerebral hfemorrhage following a con- vulsive attack. The second, hypnotised after repeated failures, recovered completely and has remained ten years without relapse. The third, after varied treatment, passed four months in the National Hospital, Queen's Square, where subcutaneous injections of hyoscine, and large and frequently repeated doses of chloral, bromide, etc., were administered, her condition growing distinctly worse meanwhile. On 14th June 1900, when I first saw her, she was unable to walk ; there was a contracture of the muscles of the left leg, constant clonic muscular spasm of the muscles of the head, trunk, and extremi- ties on the left side, together with frequent and violent generalised convulsive attacks of the true Salpetriere type. On June 18th, she was discharged from the hospital and came under my care; she commenced to improve almost immediately vmder hypnotic treatment, and three weeks later all morbid symptoms had disappeared. Numerous cases of " grande hysterie," with good results, are reported by Continental observers, and Berillon, who for three years watched Dumontpallier's cases at the Pitie Hospital, states that most of the patients made a complete recovery and are now in good health —some married and mothers of families, others occupying responsible business positions. Voisin reported a case of long - standing hystero - epilepsy with maniacal attacks ; the patient recovered and became wardrobe maid at the Salpetriere. II. Monosymptomatic hysteria — monoplegia, mutism, ajjhonia, hiccough, cough, blepharo- spasm, discromatopsy, rhythmical chorea, etc. The following are illustrative cases from my own practice :— Mrs. , aged 49 ; singultus of three years' duration, supposed to be due to large uterine fibroid. No improvement from careful drug- ging, electrical treatment, etc. Hypnotised. Recovered. No relapse after five years. Miss , aged 20; aphonia of four years' duration, with loss of reflex sounds. Paresis of lower extremities. Rapid recovery under hyp- notic treatment. Miss , aged 19 ; violent muscular tremor of extremities of fifteen months' duration. Careful hospital treatment without benefit. Hypnotised. Rapid and complete recovery. No relapse after five years. Berillon, de Jong, Wetterstrand, van Eeden, van Renterghem, and many other Continental observers, report successful cases of hysterical aphonia, hiccough, cough, mutism, blepharo- spasm, chorea, etc. Dr. A. Gros d'Apt reports a case of hysterical paralysis of the lower extremities of three years' duration, which was rapidly cured by sugges- tion. Van Renterghem records a case of long- standing clonic spasm of the cervical muscles in a man, aged 42, who had been treated without success by drugs, electricity, hydropathy, nerve- stretching, etc., but completely recovered under hypnotic treatment. A similar successful case is reported by Tatzel. The patient, a man, aged 44, had been compelled to abandon work and, after having spent all his money on medical and surgical treatment, ended in the workhouse. Tatzel also reports two successful cases of paramyo- clonus multiplex, while Lemoine cites one of hysterical tremor of twenty-one years' duration, simulating paralysis agitans, which recovered after six days' hypnotic treatment. III. The various manifestations of ordinary hysteria — insomnia, dyspepsia, visceral and menstrual troubles, neuralgia, etc. The following are illustrative cases from my own practice :— Miss , aged 20; insomnia from infancy, with spinal neuralgia of ten years' duration. Complete recovery after short hypnotic treat- ment. No relapse after five years. Mrs. , aged 41 ; migraine, dj'smenorrhoea, dyspareunia, chronic constipation, dyspepsia, insomnia, constant depression, spinal neuralgia, etc. Slight hypermetropia, over-corrected by ciliary spasm, causing virtual myopia—could only read third line of Snellen's unaided. All the morbid symptoms, including the ciliary spasm, disappeared after a short hypnotic treatment, and the patient was able to read the bottom line of Snellen's unaided. The ophthalmic observa- tions were made by the late Mr. Bendelack Hewetson. Two years later thei-e had been neither relapse nor return of the ciliary spasm. Miss , aged 28; pain in hip and leg of five years' duration, with inability to walk. Treatment: drugging, rest on back for two months; Weir-Mitchell; massage; electricity; hydropathy; Paquelin's cautery to leg—about 20,000 applications in all. Meanwhile, the patient grew steadily worse; all treatment was then abandoned, and she was considered incur- able. Complete recovery followed two days' hypnotic treatment; the patient exchanged her bath chair for a bicycle, and now, four years' later, is well, active, and strong. As a large proportion of my patients suffered from hysteria, I could cite many cases similar to those just given. In all the type was identi- cal, the details alone differed. One or more of the bodily functions was performed consciously and painfully, and some form of headache or neuralgia was generally present, together with more or less marked symptoms of mental in- stability. On the Continent, hysteria has also been the disease most frequently treated by hypnotism,