467 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS learned to consider as manifesting paralysis— loss of function; and diffusion—disorderly func- tion. Excitement, delusion, fear, and other positive symptoms of insanity are but incoordin- ate excesses following upon a paralysis of those mechanisms which normally command the cortex. There is no difference in the kind of effects which disease has in insanity and those which it has in tabes, in multiple sclerosis, or in a lesion which affects Broca's convolution. The differ- ence is only one of situation. In each case the defect is that normal connections have failed and movement passes by wrong channels. We must, however, take note of a feature of nervous tissue which is essential to subconscious- ness. Next to its conductivity, which is its first and obvious function, the brain is an organ of retention. And retentiveness depends upon the nutrition of differentiated structure, just as every other function does. We are very liable, if we think of our brains at all, to conceive only of that function which is engaging our attention for the moment, or of our habitual activities. But, if memory has any organic significance, it implies that every experience to which we attend—and others as w^ell—leads to a charac- teristic differentiation ; and that the mechanism of it is maintained indefinitely and is function- ally active to some extent all the time. To furnish an image of something that we saw or heard an hour ago, a year ago, twenty years ago, the brain must have preserved an activity in a definite and appropriate set of nerve-cells and fibres. One must therefore conceive of the mind as afloat upon a vast sea of move- ments, of which only a small part comes now and again into relation with it and engages the attention. Here again we may revert to the analogy of the telephone, and remember what an ocean of words is streaming all day long through its countless wires. Sometimes, just before the contact is made for you which isolates the message that you want to hear, a hum as of a million voices vibrates in the instrument until suddenly the proper voice is focussed. In the cortex a similar relation obtains. From infancy onwards, personal experience has initiated a million activities which persist indefinitely in the brain. Moreover, other cerebral activities which are independent of individual experience occur automatically—instinctive processes which are the inheritance of the race. Axioms of life, for example, self-evident propositions which the mind accepts as facts the moment they are pre- sented to it, imply a cortical structure which was active before the occasion for its use arose, just as the act of sucking implies an automatic maturation of a motor mechanism. But both these activities which experience initiates and those which are instinctive lie buried, for the most part, beneath our consciousness. They come within the attention only as occasional facts, when contact is made with them in the course of a train of feelings or of ideas, or when an outward stimulus occasions our notice of them. Subconsciousness is as vast and as real as are the unheard, because disconnected, mes- sages of a telephone system. We may compare this development and differ- entiation of cerebral mechanisms to what occurs in the growth and development of bone. Nerve - cells and fibres maturate and become differentiated very much as bone cells do. There are to begin with what we may call centres of cerebration—foci of developmental activity, which are common to the race, and whose diverse proportions determine individual variations. For example, the centres of vision, of hearing, of sexual feeling maturate automati- cally at different times, and character is modified according as one or other of these (amongst a host of others) is strong. But structure is de- termined also, as in the skeleton, by functional factors. What the mind attends to, that will the brain become apt for, as surely as stress moulds bone. The relation of the mind to subconsciousness has been made the subject of much unnecessary mystery. We need achieve no new conception in order to understand it. If we analyse our mental processes we shall discover that atten- tion to an idea or to an emotion is not different in kind from a simple sensation. If a thorn pricks, we are aware of the prick simply as such without thought of the rest of our body. And attention to a mental fact is equally simple. We attend to a fancy which jumps into our mind, or to a memory, long hidden, which some- thing at hand suggests—both of them derived from subconsciousness—just as we attend to a prick. The difference is that we do not locate the object of our attention in the former case. We have not developed a mechanism for the location of mental processes. As I have sug- gested, consciousness has spread in its develop- ment as each system after another became the subject of nervous function. When at last nearly every part was possible of discernment, the mind was in a position to perceive the body as a whole. But there is nothing different in the perception of one's own body and the per- ception of any other. That kind of self-con- sciousness then—the bodily self-consciousness— is nothing strange. Nor is it strange that we should be aware of nerve movement which is occurring in our brain any more than of one which is in the big toe. The only difference is that we do not locate the former. The nervous activity which underlies an idea simply does not appear to us as occurring in any particular place. Hence of course the difficulty of realis- ing that mental facts have physical facts to correspond. But the brain is one of many viscera whose nervous activities we do not locate. (No healthy man locates his pancreas.) None the less of course the experience, the