62 HEADACHE grains. Should the salicylate disagree he gives potassium bicarbonate. In some cases the per- sistent use of ammonium chloride after meals gives freedom. Wilks strongly recommends a nightly dose of cannabis indica, ;j to 1 grain. Occasionally obstinate headache, which has resisted other remedies, has been cured by the administration of an anthelmintic. In countries in which lumbricoids are common, headache in children is treated with worm nuts; here santonin in castor oil is best. In other cases a dose of ethereal oil of male fern has caused the expulsion of tape-worm, and with it the cure of persistent headache. Sometimes headache has been cured in ladies by cutting the hair short. In the treatment of chronic headaches many drugs have been used in addition to those already named, both nerve tonics and sedatives. Quinine, zinc, valerian, ergot, butyl chloral hydras, etc. Turpentine was highly praised by Warburton Begbie—20 drops repeated after an hour or two. Balthazar Foster found that nitrite of amyl relieved headache like magic. This remedy and nitro-glycerine might be expected to be useful in the spastic variety (hemicrania sympathetica tonica). Ergot has been recommended in con- gestive headache, and Campbell recommends that it be tried if other remedies fail. Several writers advise the use of electricity. Campbell states that it has not received the praise due to it because it is seldom used in temporary and occasional headaches ; he has occasionally found the pain of intracranial disease temporarily removed by the constant current. In all cases, specially chronic cases, we must remember that we have to treat a peculiar nervous system, that it should through hygienic and dietetic measiu-es be braced up, that exercise in the open-air is important, that the cause of headache should, if possible, be discovered and removed, and that as rarely as possible should our treatment be only palliative. Alcoholics and morphine to be used as rarely as possible. H ead I ess IVl o n ste rs.—Acephalic twin foetuses. See Teratology (^Placental Parasites). Head-Lockingf. See Labour in Mul- tiple Pregnancy {Complicated Cases, Inter- locking/). Head-Nodding^. See Head-Shaking. Head-Shaking:. Head-Shaking and Head-Nodding with Nystagmus in Infants (Spasmus Nutans). Synonyms. — Head - jerking ; Head - rotating ; Gyrospasm; Nodding spasm. Definition.—This is a functional co-ordination- neurosis affecting infants under two years— generally when between four and twelve months old. Clinical Features.—Its two cardinal symptoms —involuntary nodding or shaking of the head and ocular nystagmus—are usually both pre- sent, but either may begin some weeks before the other. Sometimes, however, only head- movements are observed throughout; while in other cases there is passing nystagmus only. The movements of the head may consist in a simple forward nodding, but lateral or rotatory skaking is more common. They cease when the child is lying down, and also when the eyes are closed voluntarily or artificially. The nystagmus is rapid and of short range. It is oftenest horizontal, but may be rotatory or vertical; in the latter case the upper eyelid may participate in the movement. It is gener- ally more marked in one eye than in the other, and it is common to find one eye only affected. Occasionally there is rotatory or vertical nystagmus of one eye, and distinctly horizontal movements of the other. When the head is passively steadied by the hand the nystagmus increases ; or it may become visible then for the first time. Rhythmical contraction and dilatation of the pupil (hippus) may sometimes be found, and occasionally convergent strabismus develops. The child has often a peculiar trick of turning his head to one side and staring fixedly out of the opposite corners of his eyes. This gives him, at times, a curious vacant preoccupied look. The intellect, however, is not at all affected however severe or long-continued the symptoms may be. When the child's attention is attracted in any way this seems to increase the movements. They diminish with drowsiness and cease during sleep. Course and Dicration. — The patients are generally weakly children—very often rickety —and in unsatisfactory hygienic surroundings. The symptoms usually begin suddenly, almost always in mid-winter. They seldom last less than six weeks, usually from three to six months, and sometimes longer. Occasionally, after complete recovery, there is a return during the following winter. Etiology.—There are many factors contri- buting to the causation of this condition. Falls on the head and the irritation of teething have been blamed. The most important influences, however, in determining the onset of the dis- ease are the age of the patients, the absence of sufficient sunlight in their surroundings, and the presence of rickets. It is also pi'obable that anything else which temporarily or per- manently lowers the vitality predisposes to its occurrence and to its long duration. Diagnosis.—Cases of spasmus nutans are usually easy to recognise. Eclampsia nutans, or the "salaam convulsion," has sometimes been mistaken for it, but is quite different, being a form of epileptic seizure associated with serious cerebral defect. It is also not difficult to distinguish these cases from those in which