INDIGESTION 387 than to institute for a considerable period of time immutable and cribbed conditions, disregarding any changes which may occur intercurrently— conditions as unlike the salutary variations always exhibited in nature's doings as is possible. How far psychical changes in temperament represent concrete alterations of substance in nerve ganglia, or differences in the processes productive of nerve force, is as yet undecided; be the relation what it may, psychical tempera- ment exerts marked influence over functional activity throughout the body, and concerns our methods of therapy. All that tends to depress the mind tends to diminish functional activity, and to intensify or prolong existing morbid conditions. The dietetic rule, which, while benefiting the more local errors of digestion, is best calculated to stimulate the psychical functions, and not to cause mental depression, which progresses in variety of available foods as the condition of the patient improves, while strictly remaining within the limits of tolerance, is the rule, the adoption of which is likeliest to be followed by satisfactory results, general as well as local, and lasting in effect. Gastric processes are principally concerned in the digestion of proteids, in the disintegra- tion of masses of flesh, and in the thorough intermixture of all the food-stuffs taken. Normally it has little or no action on cai-bo- hydrates or fats, except by reason of its acidity in preventing their fermentation. Wherever the secretion of hydrochloric acid is decreased, and, therefore, abnormal fermentative changes in carbohydrate substances facilitated, farina- ceous foods should be largely forbidden, especially those which are most readily fermentescible. The diet given, varied according to circum- stance, should be mainly composed of the blandest forms of proteid foods, never taken in large quantity at any one time. The normal powers of digestion possessed by the stomach juice are lessened; they should, therefore, be given an easier task to do, while guarded as far as possible from further irritation. Indeed, it almost seems to be quite rational to assume that whenever the stomach is sick the diet should mainly consist of that class of food-stuffs which is naturally acted upon by its secretions, discarding the foods which are almost as foreign bodies to it. Nervous Dyspepsia.—The multitudinous mani- festations of indigestion proceeding from nervous causes require both local and general treatment. Here, again, the subject is complicated by the question of post hoc, vel propter hoc. Are the symptoms the result of morbid nervous affec- tion, or have the dyspeptic lesions brought on nervous disorder 1 While, again, the possibility of a purely reflex causation of the symptoms of indigestion adds to the difficulty. As a rule local treatment can only be palli- ative, although in so far as it benefits the general nutrition of the body it helps towards ultimate cure; while removal of the source of the nervous disturbance is the real goal to be aimed at. If the symptoms arise reflexly from local disease in other regions, as is frequently the case, relief will follow most surely from the cure or improvement of the remote causal agency. Diseased conditions of the large bowel and rectum, of the female pelvic organs, dis- placements of other abdominal viscera than the stomach, pregnancy, and disordered menstrua- tion, may require attention. In several instances the writer has procured rapid relief of dyspeptic symptoms in women at or past the menopause, or who had undergone double ovariotomy, by the sole employment of ovarian extract or didymin—all local calls for treatment being entirely ignored. When the underlying cause consists in nervous debility, neurasthenia, or nervous irritability, choice of correct therapeutic measures is a matter for grave consideration. Treatment of symptoms in accordance with the nature of the local lesions inducing them, as revealed by analytical examinations of the gastric contents, or in the light of previous experience of like cases, prohibition of dietetic transgressions, and prescription of nerve seda- tives may help. Far more benefit follows change of habit, of environment, and of interest; less (or more) professional work or manual labour; less (or more) physical and mental exercise; less (or more) opportunity for careful regard to personal traits, phenomena, and wants. Many of the victims of nervous dyspepsia, who have developed hypochondriacal tendencies, derive special benefit from change of scene and circumstance, with absence from routine work, and diversion of thought. Others, again, seem to experience a larger degree of relief from assiduous local therapy, especially if employ- ment of physical methods be associated with it. Excessive emaciation in neurasthenic subjects, with neurotic dyspepsia, especially that type known as anorexia nervosa, can only be success- fully treated away from home and by some form of the treatment associated with the name of Weir-Mitchell, into which rest, massage, and a generous supply of simple food enter. In Ancemia and Chlorosis.—In treating the symptoms of chronic indigestion so often met with in anaemic and chlorotic subjects the possibility of gastric ulcer should always be borne in mind,—acute, in course of formation, and existing in part, or chronic, imperfectly healed, or cicatrised. The increased sensitive- ness of the nerve-endings in the gastric mucous membrane towards the irritant effects of free acid in the contents, because of the lowered nutritive properties of the blood supplied to them, must also be taken into account. Their digestive powers may be normal, along with severe symptoms of gastric disorder, arising solely from the anaemic state of the blood.