•208 HERNIA the body from the base of tlie sacrum behind, between the crest of the ilium and the upper border of the great trochanter laterally, and just above the symphysis pubis in front. The number of inches, in this measurement, in- dicates the size of the truss. A truss should be applied by the surgeon. The leaving of this matter in the hands of in- strument-makers has led to nmch irregular practice, and to the introduction of many "special" or " patent" trusses which are, with scarcely one exception, worthless, or positively harmful. A truss is as surely a surgical instru- ment as a splint, and requires at least equal care and skill in the application. Inguinal Trusses.— 1. Fm^ Bubonocele.—A single truss should be of the exact size, obtained by measurement in the manner just mentioned ; a double truss should be a size (that is, one Fii :. 13.—Inguinal truss to sliow tlie shape of the pad. inch) larger, for its coverings are thicker and there is not the same adaptability as is afforded, in the single truss, by the strap. The inner end of the pad should be at the outer border of the rectus, and above {not on) the pubes. The truss should lie in the hollow just below the iliac crest, and should fit snugly and firmly. The commonest of all faults is to find a truss which is too large for the patient. After placing the belt of the truss in position, the cross-strap should be first fixed, and then ViQ. 14.—Femoral truss to show the sliape of the pail ami the forward attachment of the uuder-strap. the under-strap, which is carried round in the fold of the buttock from the shoulder of the truss to the bottom stud on the pad. 2. For Scrotal Hernia.—The ordinary pad is not sufficient, as a rule, to retain a rupture which has descended into the scrotum; it must be made fuller and more bulkj', and of such a Fig. 1.0.—Rat-tailed tru.ss. shape that the surface next the skin looks rather more in an upward direction. The soft part of the pad should also be prolonged down- wards into a tail or nnder-strap which can be attached to a fixed buckle or hook in front of the shoulder of the truss. The double object of exerting pressure on the inguinal canal (by the pad) and on the external ring (by the under- strap) is effected by this truss, which is known as the rat-tailed truss. 3. For direct hernia a rat-tailed truss or a modification known as the " forked-tongue truss " is employed. In this latter the pad is carried inwards to the middle line and termin- ates in the strap which is fixed to the belt of the truss in front of the shoulder of the opposite side. Double trusses should be made the same on both sides, double rat-tailed, double forked- tongue, or double ordinary, as the need may be. A truss whose two sides are dissimilar is rarely satisfactory. Femoral Trusses.—The same measurement is used as in the case of inguinal hernia. The pad of a femoral truss is rather smaller than that of an inguinal, and is prolonged a little downwards to cover the femoral canal. The under-sti'ap is attached to the truss well in front of the shoulder, so that when made tight it tilts the pad and causes increased pressure to be made on tlie femoral ring, which is normally almost horizontal when the body is erect. The pad should be kept well outside the pubic spine and should not be allowed, as it often is, to over-ride that bony prominence. If the hernia is large and the pad has to be increased considerably in size in order to make effective pressure, a belt must be added to