HYDROCEPHALUS 275 spines slightly to one side of the middle line. The patient is made to stoop forwards, or the spine is fully flexed so as to widen the space as much as possible, and then the needle is passed gently in. If it enters to a sufficient depth and fluid is drawn oft", it will be known that the theca has been tapped. If the needle impinges upon bone, its direction should be changed so that it passes below the edge of the lamina and enters the theca. After withdrawal of the needle the puncture may be sealed by a small collodium or celloidin dressing. In a certain number of cases of meningitis, whether due to syphilis or tubercle or other cause, the ventricles become distended either with or without a subdural collection of fluid. Under these conditions the apertures leading from the ventricles to the sub-arachnoid space may be closed. A good many cases are on record where an operation has been done to drain away this intra-ventricular fluid as in chronic hydrocephalus. Thus Parkin {Lancet, 1st July 1893) trephined below the superior curved line of the occipital on the right side, opened the dura, and passed a bent probe beneath the cerebellum, thus setting free the fluid, which may be drained away either by a small tube, or better, by use of a bundle of horsehair. Parkin had a case in which a fatal result followed in sixteen hours. Ord and Waterhouse {Lancet, vol. i. 1894, p. 397) record a case of tuberculous meningitis, in which a very similar operation was successful, and the child, which was five years old, recovered after seventeen days' drainage. A paper of Morton's {Brit. Med. Jour., 8, 4, 1893) on the anatomy and method of reaching the intra-ventricular fluid without traversing the brain substance may also be consulted. Chr 'onic Internal Hydrocephalus. — The sur- gical treatment of this condition may be limited to an attempt to check or even diminish the rate of secretion of the fluid by pressure applied to the head. This has been done by strapping the head circularly with plaister, or by the application of an elastic bandage. Though such a simple and obvious measure has been many times attempted, it does not appear that any good result has followed, and there is real danger of causing sloughing of the scalp by compression of the vessels between the bandage and the unyielding skull. Another method of treatment is by tapping the ventricle through one of the lateral angles of the anterior fontan- els. The middle line is to be avoided on account of the presence of the superior longi- tudinal sinus. The tapping may be done with a fine hollow needle, a small trocar, or an aspirator, and after a certain amount of fluid has been drawn off, the opening may be sealed, or drainage for a time may be provided for by leaving in a capillary tube. For this purpose Southey's trocars have been employed. With this method of puncture may be combined the use of pressure to try to prevent reaccumulation of the fluid. Hern {Brit. Med. Jour., 11th Nov. 1893) records six cases of repeated tapping, with improvement in five. A further step consists in the attempt to check intra-ventricular secretion by the injection of iodine or other irritating fluid. Prof. Keen suggested making a trephine opening \^ inch above and behind the external auditory meatus, and then puncturing the brain with a needle directed towards a point 2J inches above the opposite meatus. The ventri- cular cavity was reached at a depth of about If inch. In a case in which this operation was done, a small horsehair drain was kept in the ventricle for fourteen days, and then a drainage- tube was substituted. Twenty-eight days later a similar operation was performed on the other side, and a tube passed into the ventricle. The child died on the forty-fifth day. Two other cases died four days and four hours respectively after operation. The first case was one of cerebellar tumour {vide Jacobson, Oper-ations of Surgery, from whom the above is taken). It is obvious that the measurements given above are only very vague guides, inasmuch as they appear to refer to adult heads or those in which the ventricles are not dilated. It is clear that in a dilated ventricle with a thinned brain the depth from the surface could be nothing like If inch. It should also be noted that in a case in which the hydrocephalus was a mere secondary effect of a cerebellar tumour no good result could be expected. Mayo Robson {Brit. Med. Jour., 1890, vol. ii.) trephined and punctured the ventricle in a case supposed to be one of basal meningitis resulting from ear disease. After failing to find pus he withdrew from the ventricle ovj. of clear fluid. The puncture was made in the posterior ex- tremity of the second frontal convolution. No drainage was used. The child recovered. This case, again, can hardly be taken as a guide to the treatment of ordinary cases of chronic hydrocephalus. Mr. Robson points out that mere leakage or drainage away of cerebro- spinal fluid is not necessarily fatal, a fact well established by the records of cases of fractured skull, with laceration of brain involving the ventricle. He gives Prof. Eraser's directions for reaching the different cornua, though these are perhaps hardly necessary, since in any case likely to call for treatment a puncture through the cortex at any point of the upper part of the hemisphere would reach the dilated ventricle. Care will, of course, be taken to avoid the motor area. Robson records another case of ordinary hydrocephalus in which he operated, but the drainage-tube slipped out and the child died. Bruce Clarke, in the discussion on Robson's paper, mentions a case of chronic meningitis with subdural collection of fluid (external