HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 99 fore, seem to be no clear pathological reason or clinical advantage in insisting on this some- what artificial division. It is well to remember that in many cases of mitral stenosis the natural seat of the auriculo- ventricular orifice is shifted, and instead of being on a level with the base of the valve segments, is lowered to a position at the apex of the funnel-shaped rigid valve. Still further, the obstruction is occasionally increased by the formation of thrombi on the aricular surface of the sclerosed valve, or by pendulous coagula from the left auricle. The results of this lesion on the general circulation have already been sufficiently de- scribed, and certain of the local effects will be referred to presently when considering hyper- trophy and dilatation, so that it is only necessary here to mention the more conspicuous intra- cardiac consequences and associations. Naturally the chief stress of mitral stenosis falls on the left auricle, which, according to the stage of the lesion, presents variable degrees of hypertrophy and dilatation. There is also considerable increase in the size of the right ventricle, the hypertrophy of its walls and prominence of its infundibulum being usually most conspicuous. In the early stages hypertrophy is the chief if not sole feature, but in old-standing cases, where a certain amount of mitral incompetence has existed with progressive heart failure, more or less dilatation is usually found at the autopsy. Possibly some degree of incompetence has much to do with this. The auricular appendix is often blocked by firm thrombi, and the cavity of the auricle generally contains much a.m. and p.m. blood-clot. Theoretically it might be considered that the left ventricle should show but little alteration, or even be diminished in size, but generally when examined post-mortem it presents some de gree of dilatation, and not infrequently distinct hypertrophy. Mitral Incompetence.—In the normal heart the mitral valve effectually prevents any com- munication between the left ventricle and the left auricle during the systole of the former. Two distinct forms of mitral incompetence, essentially different in etiology and mechanism, although presenting many clinical features in common, can be recognised :— (i.) Incompetence from primary valvular d isease. (ii.) Incompetence from muscular failure. Etiology.—According to the form of mitral incompetence, two chief groups of etiological agents are to be sought:— 1. That in which the curtains of the mitral valve or their tendinous cords are affected. (i.) Infective Endocarditis.—The rapidly de- veloped and often very extensive and destructive character of this malignant inflammatory process has already been indicated. The mitral segments, like the aortic, frequently suffer, and very exten- sive incompetence may be established, and that so speedily as often to give little opportunity for any effective compensatory changes. (ii.) Simple acute endocarditis, generally of rheumatic order, although often considered as giving rise to regurgitation, probably often allows of such rather from the associated muscle failure than the actual changes occurring in the valve segments—at least the muscle failure assists in the result. (iii.) Chronic endocarditis, the consequence usually of rheumatism as already explained, not only leads to deformities, but is apt to produce loss of mobility, and a deterioration of the structures as an efficient mechanical valve. Although sclerosis of the mitral tends to produce incompetence, and that perhaps at a compara- tively early stage in the cardiac history, yet in many instances the degree of compensation has been such that the case does not come under medical observation until the mitral orifice has been considerably stenosed, and the then marked regurgitation is obviously occurring through an obstructed orifice. In all probability, however, some degree of regurgitation invariably occurs before the development of stenosis. (iv.) Traumatic influences are said to be capable of establishing sufficient injury to the mitral valve as to produce incompetence, but it is difficult to obtain evidence in favour of such an assertion. 2. That in which the valve curtains are normal, but changes in the muscle substance lead to a widening of the mitral orifice. In advanced cases probably also some yielding of the structures forming the auriculo-ventricular ring may occur. Mitral regurgitation from such causes may be of almost any degree of severity. In some the enlargement of the mitral orifice is slight and temporary, in others it is enormous and per- sistent. One group may be relatively curable ; another incurable and incapable of lasting amelioration. All conditions leading to a lowering of the nutrition of the cardiac muscle are to be con- sidered instrumental in the production of this form of mitral insufficiency. Among such are the following: (i.) Febrile states; (ii.) Toxic conditions ; (iii.) Ansemic aff"ections ; (iv.) Local inflammatory degenerative or other abnormal processes affecting the myocardium; (v.) Some chronic wasting diseases. It may be well here to point out more ex- plicitly that the toxjemic influence of many of the infectious diseases on the cardiac muscle may be such as to effect marked mitral insuf- ficiency. Rheumatism, also, although attacking the endocardium in chief degree, can sometimes produce such myocardial enfeeblement as will lead to a considerable amount of dilatation, and amply to account for signs of mitral incom-