INSANITY, ITS NATUHE AND SYMPTOMS 495 activities of a form very near hallucinations and obsessions and illusions. Illusions are misinter- preted sensations ; hallucinations are sensations or perceptions automatically occasioned, that is, without an apparent objective stimulus; obsession is an idea which occurs again and again, and obtrudes itself irresistibly upon the attention; delusions are mistaken beliefs, whether referring to perceptions or to oneself, or to things in general. But in insane processes there are no hard and fast lines between these various morbid activities, and the merging of one into another is clearly apparent in con- fusional cases. Ideational activity of an un- related form—the occurrence of words and meanings in the mind without a proper content —are due to morbid processes in mental areas exactly comparable to hallucinations such as voices, bells, singing, and visions, which pre- sumably arise near the Rolandic areas or below them. A gentleman who had been working- hard in a hot climate told me lately that, on several occasions when resting, words, not in any recognisable voice, and having no apparent coherence, crept upon his attention in a string, such as "Mine—hut—sweet—contract—lie—," like a telegram in cypher of which he did not possess the code. The moment he turned his attention full on the process the representation ceased. If he had attributed these words to some voice, we would call them hallucinations of hear- ing ; if he accepted them as significant and believed nonsense because of them, he would be suffering delusion. And in confusional insanity, without hearing actual words, meanings, ideas, and suggestions occur to the patient's mind and have to be explained. In particular, confusional cases suffer from a morbid process very analogous to illusion in that they lay an emphasis on certain phrases that they hear that was never intended, and ponder over them with care and perplexity. Some confusional cases are insanely mystical. The patient begins to doubt self- evident facts, cannot accept the material limita- tions imposed upon our senses, and constantly seeks a mystical and subtle explanation of the most simple things. These metaphysical dis- orders usually have a religious reference. Such patients are often slow to accept a dogmatic delusion, they simply regard everything as an open question; but such a state of mind is quite unfit for society, and it is on the way to gross delusion if not corrected. A patient, for example, who wonders whether some one else can occupy his mind, and who occasionally supposes that the things he is saying and doing may not be his own, is very near to delusion. Many confused patients are haunted by that suggestion of an indwelling spirit. I have volu- minous notes written by one of Dr. Clouston's patients of this class—essays upon such problems as that of the " existence of the real objective world, which exists, I suppose, objectively and subjectively, to God and in God." His mind was of extraordinary quickness and subtlety, his nature very gentle and generous and affec- tionate. I often think of him as one whose mental disease is to be explained on the hypo- thesis suggested in a previous paragraph—that the organs of his personality were a good deal too much in advance of the standards of our time. He suffered from an alternating disorder of the intelligence. We called him well when we had induced him not to think, but to engage his muscles. When he took to thinking he usually became painfully confused and be- wildered. Sometimes he then went back to a muscular life, in which he found relief; at other times he gave himself over to some ex- pansive truth such as that " God is love," that "all thought is one," that "persons are in- separate," etc., and, revelling in the develop- ments of such an idea, he suffered what was really a mild ecstatic mania for a few days. In that phase he could hardly be said to think. Everything was clear to him : he knew all that he cared to know; he did not require to con- sider. Most confusional cases, however, are perplexed by much less subtle imaginings and occupied by much more mundane suggestions. Two cases under my care, one a man, the other a woman, were very far from occultism. They were perplexed usually about quite trivial matters—wondered if somebody meant anything personal when he said that the day was over- cast ; or if that remark at table, " Make yourself at home," could signify a good deal more than appeared; and so on. A great many patients from overstrain or shock go no further than simple bewilderment. Tbey complain that they cannot understand things as formerly, that in reading or conversation some irrelevant sugges- tion crops up and confuses them, and that their memory is precarious. If such patients can be taken in time, compelled to rest, and not allowed to think, recovery often follows quicklj^. As soon as the patient begins to ponder over these cross-suggestions he is in risk of becoming- delusional, or if, without entertaining these fleeting ideas, he allows himself to mope over the facts of his case, he is apt to become melan- cholic. The primary lesion in this as in swither- ing insanity seems to be a destruction of common sense. That characterises all delusional states. Systematic Delusions not Progressive.— Patients who entertain absurd suggestions for any length of time usually end in gross delusion. Their mistaken beliefs are systematic in the sense that they are elaborate conceptions, supported by a mass of supposed evidence, and they are systematically expressed in conversa- tion and in conduct. But in many cases, though perhaps not in most—which is doubtful—they are not progressive. That is, ill-health and cerebral neurasthenia, characterised by doubt and by delusion, may be recovered from as