IMMUNITY 364 mother was able to transmit the antitoxin by her milk, and a marked and progressive immunity was thus conferred to the offspring of the con- trol animal. The transference of immunity or tolerance of poison to the offspring by means of the milk was subsequently demonstrated in tetanus (Ehrlich), and it was shown that the subcutaneous injection of the milk of goats which have been immunised against tetanus confers protection from tetanus (Brieger and Ehrlich). Antitoxin has been successfully pre- cipitated from milk and prepared in a dry concentrated form. The antitoxins contained in milk are absorbed from the intestinal canal without undergoing change mainly because of their marked stability. Ehrlich shows that the maternal milk may also be serviceable for the transference of antitoxin to the human infant, and indicates that it is possibly owing to this fact that a number of infectious diseases (mumps, scarlatina, measles) so seldom occur during the first year of life. •5. Employment of Immune Sera for Imviun- isation and C\irative Purposes. {Prophylactic Employment and Serum Therapeutics.)—Two forms of immune serum can be differentiated : the antitoxic serum, and the serum the action of which is only anti-bacterial or bactei'icidal. Results of real value have hitherto only been obtained with antitoxic serum, but brief men- tion must be made of the results gained by the use of bactericidal sera. In diphtheria and tetanus more especially it has long since been proved experimentally that a cure may be effected by antitoxic servim even after the disease has commenced (Behring, Kitasato, ^\^ernicke, Knorr), the explanation of the cura- tive effect being the above-mentioned combina- tion of antitoxin and toxin. But a relatively large amount of antitoxin is required if treatment is to be successful, and the longer the time elapsed since the commencement of the illness the more antitoxin is necessary. In the late stages of the disease the intoxication is so great that large doses of antitoxin are ineffectual. Under such circumstances an antitoxin of the highest possible concentration is of great value, and it has often been successfully prepared by precipitating the antitoxin from the serum and subsequently making a concentrated | solution. Another method of gaining the same end is to freeze and then thaw the serum, thus separating water and proteid, a process which may be promoted by centrifugalisation. Dijjhtheria.—Antitoxic diphtheria serum is but seldom used for immunisation. The usual dose is 200 units, and if danger of infection persists the inoculation is to be repeated about fourteen days later, because of the rapid excre- tion of the antitoxin from the body. The use of larger doses of serum is not so suitable, because the more concentrated the antitoxin in the blood the more rapid is the excretion. It is difficult to furnish absolute proof of the protection man derives from these inoculations ; to do so would require many statistics. The results gained by Lohr and Slawyk in the children's clinic at the Berlin Charite are in- teresting. By immunising all the children, including those newly admitted, they succeeded in checking the spread of diphtheria in the clinic, as could not be done otherwise, whilst mere immunisation of those children in beds adjoining that of a diphtheria case had failed to do so. The imnuniising dose was usually 200 units, which was borne without risk. The therapeutic application of diphtheria serum is based on the experimental studies of Behring and Wernicke (1892) on the recovery of guinea-pigs after subcutaneous inoculation with diphtheria bacilli in such doses that the animals would have died in three or four days had they not been treated. If treatment were commenced immediately after infection, 1| to 2 immunising doses were required to effect a cure; eight hours after infection, 3 immimising doses ; and twenty-four to thirty-six hours after in- fection, 8 immunising doses were requisite. After small doses of diphtheria bacilli, when the disease in the guinea-pig runs a slower course, the curative action can also be recog- nised in the local changes at the seat of in- jection, for the serous exudation which has been formed quickly disappears. If infection has occurred some considerable time previously, so that the disease is already advanced, large doses of antitoxin cannot save the animal. The disturbances, which are already in existence in the various cells of the body, can no longer be influenced by the antitoxin. The action of diphtheria serum can also be experimentally shown in the case of a true superficial diphtheria produced by inoculatioia of diphtheria bacilli on the vagina, trachea, or other mucous membranes of animals. The false membrane so formed becomes detached as the animal recovers (Roux and Martin). The action of the serum is only antitoxic, not anti-bacterial; but as the diph- theria bacilli do not spread into the body from the seat of inoculation, the organism, after the use of curative serum, gains time to gradually overcome the bacilli by means of its natural protective powers. For use in medical practice the rule is to inject large doses as soon as possible, giving at least 1000 units, in severe and urgent cases 1-500 to 3000 units, or even more. The anti- toxin must be regarded as absolutely innocuous; any by-effects, such as skin eruptions or pains in the limbs, which sometimes occur, are due solely to the serum, normal horse's serum being able to cause similar symptoms. The injections are made with a sterilised syi'inge luider the skin of the thigh, or between the shoulders, with strict attention to asepsis. The serum must be clear or somewhat opalescent, it should