DISEASES OF 526 INTESTINES, tinned, preserved, and potted meat, tinned fish, putrefying meat, pork more frequently than other kinds, sour milk, high game, oysters, etc. In this class of food poisoning the poison may be either bacterial or the product of their action, which results in the formation of ptomaines, and the symptoms produced are known as ptomaine- poisoning {vide " Food," vol. iii. p. 334). There is every reason to believe that this is due to a poisonous animal alkaloid formed, it is generally supposed, in the later stages of putrefaction and not to bacteria themselves. The exact alkaloid has not yet been isolated, but a substance called " sepsin," capable of producing intense hsemor- rhagic enteritis, has been obtained by Bergmann from decomposing yeast, and Briegar has secured nuerine, coaline, and murodine, which closely resembles the poison of mushrooms—muscarine —from decomposing meat. Alkaloids, resembling ciirara in their action, have also been separated from decomposing fish. All of the alkaloids thus separated are not poisonous, but some are extremely toxic. All toxic ones cause enteritis, cardiac failure, and paralysis or convulsions. In epidemic enteritis (summer diarrhoea of children) it is probable that no one bacterium but many are the potent factors in its causation. Attempts have been made to classify cases accord- ing to the bacteria found in the stools, but such a classification is, for the present at least, im- practicable. Klein separated from the stools in an outbreak of enteritis a bacillus which he called bacillus enteriditis sporagenes, but he and others, by subsequent investigations, have failed to prove this anaerobic organism to be the specific bacterium of this disease. A break in continuity of the intestinal mucous membrane favours the entrance of bacterium coli, and enteritis, with subsequent ulceration, is likely to sxipervene, as exemplified in some cases of traumatic appendicitis, or intestinal cancer or intestinal obstruction when the intestine at and above the lesion is frequently inflamed and ulcerated, and may be gangrenous as a result of bacterial infection of the damaged intestinal walls {vide post " Bacteria of the Intestine "). Pathological Anatomy.—The superficial mucous membrane is in mild cases the site of inflamma- tion, but in more severe forms inflammation extends to the submucous coat. The initial lesion appears as a diffuse redness of the mucous membrane, and the exudation of inflammatory products causes oedema and tumefaction. The surface of the inflamed mucous membrane is usually coated with a tenacious layer of mucus, often blood - stained. Lieberkiihn's follicles, Peyer's patches, and the solitary glands are swollen and prominent; their ducts become obliterated, small erosions or catarrhal ulcers develop, and, if the inflammation is severe, hccmorrhage into and under the mucous mem- brane takes place. Unless the case becomes chronic or the inflammation be very acute, the muscular and serous coats are slightly, if at all, affected. If, however, the case becomes chronic, the inflammatory products develop into new connective tissue, the glandular elements are to a great extent destroyed, the muscular and serous coats become involved, the intestinal wall is in- filtrated by the products of chronic inflamma- tion, the mucous membrane at the same time shows considerable erosion, and by sloughing of the glandular elements, consequent on tension produced by plugging of their ducts, catarrhal ulcers are formed. The secretive and muscular functions become then permanently damaged. In certain cases further mischief may follow; localised abscesses may form and break into the bowel, or gangrene, with perforations of the bowel, may result. Enteritis rarely affects any considerable length of the small intestine ; usually a few yards only are involved. The colon is more frequently affected than other regions, and the jejunum probably less frequently than any other part. Symptoms.—The symptoms of acute intestinal catarrh vary greatly in severity, and to a large extent in accordance with the cause. An acute irritant, like carbolic acid or a caustic alkali, will produce a more acute diarrhoea than that due to a simple mechanical irritant. As a rule, the earliest symptom, as in most febrile affec- tions, is chilliness. A feeling of uneasiness in the abdomen, followed by colicky pains, nausea, and loss of appetite, are complained of early. The nausea may be followed by vomiting and hiccough. The tongue is dry and coated, the expression is anxious, and the face pinched; thirst is complained of, diarrhoea soon com- mences, the stools being at first semi-solid and gruel-like, but later watery, acid, and scalding, containing more or less mucus in accordance with the site of the enteritis; the higher in the intestine the less the mucus in the stools. (A stool almost wholly composed of mucus may with a fair degree of certainty be said to have its origin below the splenic flexure of the colon, vide "Faeces," vol. iii. p. 241). The stools are usually numerous, and often become foetid, either from decomposition in the intestine by bacterial action or from temporary arrest of the biliary secretion. The colour may be green from bili- verdin staining, especially in children, but as a rule the evacuations remain clear and watery, consisting of unabsorbed intestinal contents— epithelium, mucus, food particles, leucocytes, other products of inflammation, and innumer- able bacteria, of which the bacterium coli spores and rod-shaped bacteria are the chief. In pro- portion to the amount of fermentation going on in the intestine there will be abdominal disten- sion, borborygmi and increased flatus passed per anum, and palpitation and cardiac discomfort may arise from upward displacement of the diaphragm. Diarrhoea may be absent in inflam- mation of the duodenum or of the upper part of