HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 139 rest with the great advantage of abundant nourishment at the same time being rendered innocuous in spite of the denial of voluntary activity to the muscles. The muscles are " ex- ercised," as it were, by the masseur—-that is to say, are helped to the disposal and removal of their often toxic products of metabolism—with- out any strain on the heart. Rather, we might fancy, does the process actually relieve the heart by rendering the peripheral circulation more easy. Of course, in the presence of much general dropsy, the kneading of the muscles is rendered impossible; but it is not under these circumstances that the question of this treat- ment is likely to arise. Diet We have next to consider that most important subject in the treatment of heart disease—diet. That this subject is too often ignored by the medical practitioner is abundantly evident by the frequent bitter complaint by the patient of his gaseously distended abdomen, which, pressing up on his diaphragm and impeding his already embarrassed respiration, occasions him infinite discomfort. If there is some albumin in his urine, as is the rule in most severe cases, so much the more is the patient likely to be injuriously fed with excess of carbohydrates, rice, tapioca, and the like pernicious puddings, while his nitrogenous food is cut down to a minimum. If we reflect that the heart is a muscle, and the most important muscle—not to say the most important organ—in the body, surely we ought to give the food that long experience has taught us is best for muscle tissue—nitrogenous, and not carbohydrate articles. The modern system of athletic training is, the writer understands, less strict in this respect than that of former days, but he doubts if the "staying powers" of its subjects are any better in consequence—if as good. However, past records are good enough for him. The patient with severe heart disease cannot take exercise, and we must recognise the fact. His muscles must lie fallow, except in the very few cases in which general massage is adopted. But is the case for excess of carbohydrate food any better on that account than that for a preponderance of nitrogenous food? If the physician fears an excessively nitrogenous diet, let him reflect that the toxic nitrogenous bodies in the blood he fears are promoted, not diminished, by a largely carbohydrate diet, inasmuch as the articles of the latter will use up the oxygen necessary for the metabolism of the tissues and for dealing with its nitrogenous products. Another consideration is the state of the liver, in all cases with venous stasis: the nitrogenous elements of food and the nitrogenous products of metabolism no doubt undergo change in the organ ; but so also—and probably in greater amount—do the carbohydrates, so that the abnormal state of the gland that must result from its congestion with venous blood is at least as important in the one case as in the other. We should say that excess of carbo- hydrates in the diet was infinitely worse than an excess of nitrogenous elements, provided that carbohydrates are at the same time cut down to a minimum. So much for the question of metabolism. But for the primary disposal of food in the stomach what does reflection teach ? A rice pudding alone is probably rapidly passed through the stomach, and does no mischief there ; but far otherwise is the case if nitro- genous food, as beef or mutton, is given at the same time. Evidently the rice pudding will simply clog the process of gastric digestion by its bulk, and if digestion is weak it is only too apt to be arrested altogether, a decomposing mass of incongruous stuff being idtimately passed into the intestine to create discomfort lower down. We may start with the assumption, well borne out by the scientific labours of the late Sir William Roberts, that the healthy human being has great excess of digestive power, and can afford to conform to the customs of society in the mixing of his foods. Most healthy people can do this up to a good old age; never- theless, in many difficulty of gastric digestion is experienced early in middle life, in which case relief can often be obtained without medicinal agency by the mere simplification of the dietary ; that is to say, the patient lets his stomach's full energy be exerted on his nitrogenous food, while he is equally careful to take his carbohydrate food at a different time from that at which he takes his nitrogenous food, thereby, no doubt, promoting its speedy passage through the stomach to the parts beyond, which are capable of dealing with it, all the more that the saliva, with which it ought to be saturated, has probably to a large extent escaped being- interfered with by the acid of the juice in its rapid transit through the stomach. We plead, then, in the case of cardiac sufferers, for simplification of their food, in the first instance, and in the second for the reduction to a minimum of their carbohydrate food; the object of the first principle concerning the primaiy digestion in the stomach, that of the second principle concerning the metabolism of the tissues. We have spoken only of the stomach, but the digestion of food and the impeded absorption of food and fluid throughout the whole tract of the alimentary canal beyond must not be forgotten in a heart case. We have dwelt in symptoma- tology on the distressing tympanites of heart sufferers, and in its production the important part played by food is only too patent. Far better than any drug treatment, by intestinal antiseptics, is the simplification of the alimenta- tion of the sufferer, bearing in mind his peculiar disabilities and how all his digestive powei's are handicapped by the venous stasis of his digestive