IMMUNITY 367 this serum on the human subject. In man, therefore, active immunisation by killed cholera cultures appears as yet to be the only practical method of proved value. The therapeutic value of cholera serum is naturally still more doubtful, especially when the rapid course of the disease is borne in mind. Attempts to treat cholera patients with the blood serum of those who had recovered from the disease have been very indecisive. Typhoid Fever. — By treatment with killed cultures (R. Pfeiffer), a serum is obtained which is specifically bactericidal in a moderate degree, but not antitoxic, and therefore unsuited for therapeutic purposes in man. For intoxication is the main feature in typhoid, and an antitoxic serum would therefore be required. Pfeiff'er's results have been corroborated by many writers. Beumer and Peiper obtained a serum from sheep by a method essentially the same as Pfeiffer's, but it had no curative action in typhoid. Appar- ently good results were obtained by Klemperer and Levy, who got the serum from dogs, but the typhoid cases in which it was employed were mild, so that the observations are not decisive. Pneumonia.—Attempts to obtain an immune serum and to employ it in pneumococcal in- fection in animals were formerly made. G. and F. Klemperer were the first to employ the serum of rabbits, which had been treated with pneu- mococci, in pneumonia in the human subject, having previously proved that such serum can effect a cure in pneumococcal infection in rabbits. They sought to prove the etiological identity of these two diseases by showing that the serum of persons convalescing from pneumonia can also bring about recovery from pneumococcal infection of rabbits. An injection of 4-6 cc. of the serum appeared to influence the course of pneumonias favourably, in that the temperature often fell and remained down. Observations were, however, only made on six cases, so that no definite opinion can be given. The action of the serum is probably bactericidal and not antitoxic (Issaeff and Bonome). Streptococcal Infections.—Behring, Knorr, and others had worked at immunisation against streptococci, but without definite success. In 189-5 Marmoreck claimed to have obtained an antistreptococcus serum from rabbits, and after- wards from horses. Favourable reports as to its value for the human subject were soon published in France. For immunisation, horses are subcutaneously inoculated with gradually increasing doses of cultures of streptococci, which are highly virulent for rabbits. Each injection is given only after the complete dis- appearance of the signs of reaction, which are very intense. The serum of such animals is then claimed to exert a protective and curative action in streptococcal infections. This was experimentally confirmed by Bordet, but others (Aronson, Petruschky) obtained absolutely nega- tive results. The apparently favourable results attained with this serum in erysipelas and puerperal fever are too scanty, and the use of the serum does not sufliciently explain the direct change induced in the temperature, etc. It was afterwards asserted by Denys and others that a given streptococcus can induce immunity and furnish a protective serum only against streptococci of the same stock, and that a number of streptococci of different stocks must therefore be simultaneously made use of when immunising. But it was also shown that streptococci of different stocks which are viru- lent only for animals may be quite unsuitable for the production of a serum which is to be employed in man. Hence Tavel for the im- munisation of horses only employs such strepto- cocci as have been obtained directly from the human subject. There is but little known of the clinical results obtained by such serum. But on the whole it is improbable that a potent antistreptococcus serum will be obtained, because the serum of persons who have recovered from a streptococcal infection has no power of im- munising against the same streptococcus, and again because streptococcal infection in man confers no protection, or even predisposes to a subsequent attack, as in erysipelas of the face, for example. The apparent benefit from the use of such serum in many clinical cases is possibly due to an increase of natural resist- ance induced by hyperleucocytosis. Staphylococcal Infections. — Animals can be rendered immune to staphylococci by giving them increasing injections of cultures of staphy- lococci. Viguerat rendered goats highly im- mune by this method, and then used their serum for therapeutic purposes in staphylococcal in- fections in man. But the results recorded cannot be regarded as proof of a curative action. Subsequent investigations by Petersen have indeed confirmed the fact that animals can be immunised against staphylococci, but the value of the immune sera olQtainable is too slight to admit of the serum being of practical value for the human subject. According to Petersen these sera are anti-bacterial and not antitoxic. Intoxication with Snake Venom.—^ According to Calmette, the various varieties of snakes have different venoms, and in a given snake the virulence varies according to the length of time the snake has fasted, becoming gradually and steadily greater. Rabbits, guinea-pigs, donkeys, and horses can gradually be rendered immune to what is otherwise a lethal dose of venom by treating them at first with small and later with increasing doses of venom. Their serum then possesses antitoxic and curative powers, both of which, according to Calmette, are tested on rabbits. A rabbit is first given 2 cc. of serum, and five minutes later the minimum lethal dose of snake venom is injected intravenously. With-