116 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM is best observed in the upper part of the neck towards the angle of the jaw, while pulsation in the veins is best seen at the lower part of the neck. Venous pulsation in the neck while the patient's body is upright may be regarded as always abnormal, but it must be confessed that the circulatory disturbances need not be serious. For instance, most cases of chlorosis or antemia show it. The pulsation is seen to be double, and a tracing of such pulsation taken with Dr. Mackenzie's phlebograph shows that there is indeed a double wave—a small and a large one. Till Dr. Mackenzie demonstrated the error of pz'evious interpretations, it had been assumed that the small wave was the auricular wave, and the large wave the ventricular, while in reality the opposite is the case. A moment's con- sideration will show that Dr. Mackenzie's interpretation is the right one, apart from actual observation with the aid of instruments, by which the venous and arterial pulses of the patient are recorded simultaneously on a re- volving cylinder. When we consider the relation of parts, the vein that is visible in the neck, the auricle and the ventricle, realise that the con- traction of the auricle is immediately succeeded by the contraction of the ventricle, and remember that between the vein and the ventricle the auricle is interposed, we have only to ask our- selves the question : What is happening in the auricle during the first part of the ventricular systole? to be convinced that in the cervical vein during the first part of ventricular systole there must be a negative, not a positive wave, inasmuch as between the contracting right ventricle and the visible cervical vein is inter- posed the expanding right auricle, for immedi- ately its contraction is over this last must expand and give rise to a negative wave in the veins of the neck. Not until the chamber has become again full will its contents transmit to the veins of the neck the ventricular impulse. It does happen in advanced disease of the heart that the ventricular contraction may be mani- fested by a positive wave in the veins of the neck from the outset of systole, but before this can occur the contractile power of the auricular walls must have ceased, and the chamber have become as it were a passive reservoir. The great majority of visible venous pulsations arc double and of the auricular type described, although the venous pulse may, as stated, be alone represented by a ventricular wave occupy- ing the whole period of the systole of the right ventricle. It is a remarkable fact that venous pulsation in the neck does not always coincide in frequency witli the arterial pulsation : extra venous impulses being, as it were, interpolated from time to time. This was well seen in a case of bradycardia under the writer's care. In many cardiac cases the most pronounced visible pulsation in the neck is that of the vein, as is often observed in mitral stenosis. In aortic incompetence venous pulsation may be absent, while arterial pulsation is apt to be exaggerated in an extraordinary degree. When in the latter disease, however, both kinds of pulsation are present, the inference is that the lesion on the left side of the heart has seriously interfered with the pulmonary circulation and led to much disturbance in the function of the right chambers. Sometimes other veins than those of the neck, as those of the chest, face, and upper extremities, are seen to pulsate, and the liver may pulsate in an expansile manner. Tracheal tugging is a sign of aneurysm of the aorta, and cannot be regarded as a sign of heart disease, though aneurysm frequently produces incompetence of the aortic valves : hence the necessity of refer- ence to the sign here. Apart from true aneurysm, the arch of the aorta may be dilated, and thus its impulse be exaggerated, so as to be perceptible in the supra-stemal notch and at the stei'nal end of the right 2nd intercostal space. Deformity of the chest, however, may be the sole cause of such abnormal pulsations. Capillary Pulsation.—In cases of aortic in- competence, on making a patch of erythema by rubbing the nail over the forehead, this phe- nomenon is developed—the redness deepening and paling with the pulse. Apart from aortic incompetence, this sign may be elicited in some degree of development under conditions of the pulse that resemble those characteristic of the lesion, for instance alcoholic muscle failure of the heart. In examining the chest of a patient suspected of having heart disease the cardiac region, as a whole, must be carefully scrutinised. In young- subjects of advanced heart disease the whole region is often prominent, owing to the enlarged organ opposing the effects of atmospheric pres- sure upon the framework of the thorax. This is especially noticeable when lung-expansion has been interfered with, and pigeon - breast has resulted. Again, the whole cardiac surface may seem to be thrust forward en masse during the cardiac systole, in which case the special visible areas of ordinary cardiac pulsation, to be de- scribed, cannot be distinguished, the condition being the result of a growth encroaching on the posterior mediastinum and pushing the heart forwards. It must be remembered that during diastole the heart is flaccid, while during sj'stole it assumes a special shape, to accommodate which the parietes have to give way before the hardened mass of muscle the ventricles in systole represent. Even when a large aneurysm in the descending thoracic aorta projects the heart forwards against the chest wall, it is the pulsation of the heart itself of which we have chief evidence, though the two pulsations—that of the aneurysm and that of the heart—may be so intimately blended as to be indistinguishable. Apart from such rare conditions it will be found that the visible impulses of the heart are usually