439 INFLUENZA Dawson Williams, in an excellent article on " Incubation and Infectiousness," in Twentieth Century Practice (vol. xiii. p. 383), holds that the period of isolation ought to be a week to ten days after the commencement of the dis- ease, according to the severity of the attack. In cases complicated by pneumonia it should be extended to the end of convalescence. When a person is struck by influenza, only one course lies open to the patient, and that is, to take to bed with the least possible delay. Rest, warmth, and quiet are three sovereign remedies for the primary disease and the best preventives of its more deadly complications. We have said that there is no specific for in- fluenza. True, yet many drugs play a useful part in its palliative and symptomatic treat- ment. Tonics, like quinine and strychnine; antineuralgics, such as phenazone (antipyrin), phenacetin, acetanilide; heart medicines, like digitalis, strophanthus, caffein ; antiseptics, such as phenol (carbolic acid), salicylic acid, salol, salipyrin, all these and other similar remedies fulfil the several indications for treatment which influenza in its varying phases presents. The most popular form for the exhibition of quinine in this disease is the ammoniated tincture, which may be given in one-drachm doses, equivalent to a grain of quinine, every four, six, or eight hours. After the first two or three days the official solution of quinine hydrochloride in tincture of orange peel may be given instead in like doses. Children take a grain of quinine mixed with and partially dis- solved in milk without demur, especially if a little syrup of orange or syrup of orange flower water is added to each wineglassful of milk. Quinine salicylate may be given in wafer cachets containing three or five grains as required, where the combined eff"ects of salicylic acid and quinine are desired. In the heart-palsy and tedious weakness of convalescence of influenza strychnine is our sheet- anchor. In failing heart it is best given hypo- dermically—one twenty-second of a grain ( = 5 minims of the official solution) night and morn- ing, or every eight hours. In convalescence the following will be found an agreeable mode of administration :—B/ Liquoris strychninse hydro- chloridi 3ss-) acidi hydrochloridi diluti 3iss., tinct. aurantii ovj., aquse chloroformi gvij. M. ft. mist. Signa: "One-eighth part twice or thrice a day with or after meals." In this prescription dilute phosphoric acid may be substituted for the dilute hydrochloric acid, and tincture of quinine for the plain tincture of orange peel. Also, it is advisable to interrupt the taking of this mixture after a few days, should it cause headache or the spasmodic pains of strychnine-accumulation. While hypodermic injections of strychnine, combined with morphia if the patient is restless or sleepless, tell best in the emergency of heart- palsy, digitalis, strophanthus, or caffein may be exhibited when the crisis of heart-failure is past. From two to five grains of caffein may be given every six hours in the more acute stage, a quarter of a grain of sulphate of spartein being added to each dose, if so desired. As caffein increases arterial tension, trinitrin, which so markedly reduces it, may (if necessary) be ex- hibited at the same time. But the use of the nitrites in cases of extreme weakness of the heart must not be indiscriminate or unwatched. Camphor elixir, composed of spirit of camphor ten parts, syrup five, and distilled water one part, mixes well in water and proves an excel- lent diffusible stimulant, in doses varying from half a drachm to one drachm. An American writer, in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, recommends, in the crisis of the weak heart of pneumonia, fifteen minims each of tincture of valerian, spirit of lavender, and aromatic spirit of ammonia, every quarter of an hour, until the pulse shows that the heart is regaining tone and beating more efficiently. The external application of warmth over the prse- cordial region is often attended by the happiest results when the heart flags. When choosing between digitalis and stro- phanthus it is well to remember that the latter acts more quickly than the former. It should not, however, be forgotten that a remarkable tolerance for digitalis is established in acute asthenic pneumonia; indeed, in some cases this drug seems to exercise an almost specific action on the disease. Liquefied carbolic acid in 2-minim doses, three times a day, proved an advantage in the initial stages of influenza in 1890-91. Salicylate of sodium, given in combination with effervescent citrate of caffein, is most use- ful as a mild aperient and in relieving the rheumatoid pains of influenza. Salicylic acid and phenol may be exhibited in the form of salol, or better still, salophen (Drewes of Ham- burg). The dose of the latter compound is 10 to 30 grains daily, or even more. Another salicylic acid compound is salipyrin, which con- tains 57'7 per cent of that acid with 42-3 per cent of antipyrin (phenazone). This last-named coal-tar derivative is an invaluable antineuralgic when given in moderate doses. A favourite prescription is the following:—^ Phenazoni gr. 12-20, tincturaj gelsemii TT^xx., aquee chloro- formi ad gij. M. ft. haustus. Signa: "One- fourth part every second or third hour until pain is quieted." A long experience leads the writer to the con- clusion that phenazone even in very small doses is not a suitable drug for young children, in whom it produces cyanosis and other signs of collapse. Phenacetin is a drug of the same class which is safer, and which soothes to sleep while producing more lasting analgesic effects. It is but sparingly soluble in water, an objec-