INFLAMMATION 421 also extensively and similarly restored by like tissues. The blood-vessels enter into the pro- cess of regeneration wherever there has been loss of tissue. New blood-vessels are formed and the new tissue appears around them. This may be easily followed in the healing of an ulcer. Its floor soon becomes covered with little red points which are known as granula- tions. Each consists of a vascular loop sur- rounded by cells of various types which may be arranged in three groups : (1) Small round cells with polylobular, fragmented, or single deeply staining nucleus, and with or without oxyphil granules. (2) Large uninucleated cells with a clear protoplasm. (3) Cells of varying size (mostly larger) and shape with a bright oval nucleus and abundant protoplasm. Their rela- tive proportions vary greatly. The last tends to be deeper than the first two, which are prob- ably both leucocytes. The regeneration of the fibrous tissue is apparently performed entirely by the third type, which is indubitably a con- nective-tissue cell. It assumes many different shapes, such as spindle, star-shaped, irregular, etc. It is often called an " epitheloid cell." It is seen to secrete fibres either at its side or end. Large cells with many nuclei (giant cells) some- times appear in granulation tissue. They are epitheloid cells which have become altered by some special character possessed by the noxa, e.g. the tubercle bacillus, which can inhibit the division of the protoplasm, but not that of the nucleus. Similar cells are often seen around foreign bodies such as silk ligatures. The new blood-vessels of granulation tissue always arise as buds from the pre-existing capillaries of the inflamed area. They are at first solid (usually) outgrowths which come to bend round and join other similar outgrowths or pre-existing capillaries. They become vacuolated and hollow, and nuclei appear in their walls, which later become segmented into endothelial plates like normal capillaries. The blood soon makes its way through these new vessels from the mother capillaries. The gap of the ulcer will thus in time become filled up by this newly-formed vascular fibrous tissue, and its surface at the same time gradually covered by epithelium. The time which this takes will vary greatly according to circum- stances. The most important of all the dis- turbing factors is the presence or continuance of infection. The amount of inflammatory exudate may be taken as a good practical guide to the probable duration of the inflammation, especially of its later formative phases. The exudate, wherever it is not absorbed by the lymph or blood, must be replaced by granula- tion tissue, a much slower process. Extensive exudates are followed by prolonged granulation tiss.ue formation, which may lead to extensive fibrous thickenings and adhesions. These con- ditions hold good for deep {e.g. in muscles, bones, brain) as well as for superficial inflammations. Considerable transformation may afterwards take place in the newly-formed tissues The capil- laries may largely disappear, and the fibrous tissues increase in number and density. Elastic fibres may appear and the connective-tissue cells greatly diminish in numbers. The ulti- mate cicatricial tissue is thus often denser, less elastic, less vascular, and more vulnerable than the original tissue which it has replaced. This ultimate development is often slow, and may not be reached for months. The fixed tissue cells of an inflamed area usually exhibit other changes not referred to above. They may be seen at almost any stage of inflammation to have engulfed leucocytes, bacteria, pigment particles, remains of red blood cells, necrotic tissues, etc. They may do so while still in situ or after becoming free. They may show a considerable range of movement. It is probable that they possess and exert a certain degree of selection, for they may be brought in contact with bacteria without at first ingesting them, though they may do so later. This has been explained by the suggestion that the bacteria first exert a negative and later a positive chemotaxis, particularly when inert or degenerated. The phenomenon of phagocytosis is thus exhibited both by leucocytes (micro- phages) and by fixed tissue cells (macrophages), and if it be of a nutritive value in the former, it is probably so also in the latter. It is obvious that all the changes which the fixed tissue cells undergo in inflammation cannot subserve a useful purpose, though some of them do. The earlier degenerative changes cannot be beneficial, but many of the later regenerative processes may be. The latter are, however, not always present, or they may be so slight as to have no practical influence. Again, they may be excessive and altogether beyond the require- ments of the tissue, and in such cases they may do obvious harm. It is not the necessities of the tissues which call them forth, but the nature and the intensity of the noxa reacting through the vital qualities of the tissues themselves. They are also influenced by the nature and con- ditions of the structures affected. Nomenclature used in Inflammation. — (i.) Terms signifying Inflammation.—It is cus- tomary to refer to inflammation of an organ under a term made up of the Greek (usually) name for the organ with the termination -itis appended. Hence we say peritonitis, pleuritis, endocarditis, pericarditis, meningitis, bronchitis, etc. The prefixes peri and para attached to these terms indicate that the serous covering or tissues around the organ are inflamed, as peri- hepatitis, perisplenitis, parametritis, etc. (ii.) Duration o f Inflammation.—The course of an inflammation is sometimes short, some- times prolonged, hence we call it acute, sub- acute, or chronic. (iii.) Kinds of Inflammation.—The factors