80 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM pass to more important states of degeneration or actual necrosis. Ansemia of the myocardium is also said to occur from the pressure of pericardial effusions, and in conditions of acute and even chronic dilatation, but perhaps generally a state of local cyanosis is more apt to accrue. (3) Hyperveniia. — Little can be said with certainty respecting the process of hypersemia as it occurs in the cardiac structures, since post-mortem it usually leaves no distinctive characters, and clinically presents no special features. Some clinicians, however, believe that some of the temporary or so-called func- tional derangements of the heart may possibly be due to a state of local congestion. At the present time considerable doubt exists as to the occurrence of any condition meriting the term of general hypersemia or plethora, although formerly many cardio - vascular derangements were so explained. Passive hypera;mia of the cardiac walls may be said to result only as a part of a more or less general or secondary venous engorgement. Occasionally, however, in cases of acute dilata- tion, or rapidly established cardiac obstruction, as from the formation of a thrombus, it is not uncommon to find enormous distension of the venous sinuses, and extensive passive congestion of the heart and pericardium. The turgid myocardium has a dark, reddish-brown appcai-- ance, and the veins, especially those visible in the sub-epicardial region, are tortuous, large, and engorged. The congested endocardium is slightly darker in colour, less glistening than usual, and the dark and hypencraic muscle stretches the overlying endothelial lining. (4) llasmorrhage. — Small localised haemor- rhages into the cardiac tissues are not in- frequently found post-mortem. In certain blood diseases, such as scurvy, purpura, infantile scurvy, profound anaemias, especially in the form termed " pernicious," and leucocythsemia, small punctiform hicmorrhages into the peri- cardium, or scattered throiigli the myocardium, or even sometimes beneath the endocardium, are of common occurrence. Associated with many of the infectious diseases, especially those of a septic nature, haemorrhages into the cardiac textures are counnon. They ai-e also not infrequently met with in certain cases of poisoning, particularly by arsenic and phosphorus. In states where convulsions have occurred either from toxic influences, as in strychnine poisoning, or from local injury or disease of the nervous structures, small ecchymoses are occasionally found in the tissues of the heart at the autopsy. In conditions, also, where extreme venous engorgement has occurred, as, for in- stance, in the forms of suffocation, more or less extensive lucmorrhagcs, particularly into the pericardium, are common. In the final stages of many cardiac conditions small haemorrhages frequently develop in the walls of the heart as well as in the body generally. In some cases considerable areas of haemor- rhage may be met with. In an old man with advanced coronary disease we found a large area of haemorrhage which had occurred into a myomalacic patch, and which, rupturing into the pericardium, led to a fatal issue. Haemor- rhagic infarcts of the myocardium result from lesions of the coronary vessels. Such vascular changes are usually of slow development. Occasionally emboli, particularly in cases of malignant endocarditis, cause acute blocking, with rapid effusion of blood into the adjacent muscles. Aneurysm of the coronary artery may result. The rupture of a cardiac aneurysm is one of the well-recognised causes of htemo- pericardium and sudden death. Hiemorrhages into the cardiac structures are usually situated chiefly in the pericardium or endocardium, or in the tissues immediately beneath. They are generally of very limited extent, and should the patient recover from the condition giving rise to the haemorrhage, the effused blood is doubtless readily absorbed. Ecchymoses of the pericardium and endocar- dium must not be confused with post-mortem staining. Occasionally haemorrhages into or beneath the endocardium occur in the region of the valves, particularly in connection with infective or malignant endocarditis. Extensive areas of haemorrhage into the cardiac substance may be met with in fatal cases of violence. Sometimes, especially in children, much bruising of the heart may occur without rupture into peri- or endocardial cavities. (5) Dropsy.—An oedematous condition of the cardiac textures is always a secondary process. Such occasionally occurs in Bright's disease, and to a less extent in certain hydraemic states of the blood. Not only may there be transudation into the pericaixlial cavitj^, but the sub-pericardial tissue, and even the myocardium, often assume aboggy and water-logged appearance. Frequently the surrounding adipose tissue will be found distinctly edematous. Where large pericardial adhesions exist, the old inflammatory tissue not infrequently presents considerable asdema. Also in the final stages of cardiac disease the heart's tissues participate with the rest of the body in a more or less extensive oedema. This is pai'- ticularly marked in cases of primary muscle failure. The myocardium, however, even in these cases, from the character of its sti'ucture and the nature and arrangement of its fibres, presents but little evidence of extensive serous transudation. (6) Thrombosis, Embolism, and Infarction.— Local clotting may occur either in the cavities of the heart or in the vessels supplying the heart.