HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 132 frequently met with in cases of simple muscle failure of the heart. (3) As the pulse was regular and of good tension in the first stage, so it may pass into a third stage in which it is again regular but of low tension. The bigeminal pulse is not very rare in mitral stenosis, but is generally—not always— met with when the heart is mider the influence of digitalis. It probably bears relation to the muscle of the heart rather than to the lesion. There is no form of sphygmograni that, alone, enables the observer to make the diagnosis of mitral stenosis; the pulse may be regular and of high tension, it may be regular and of low tension, and it may be irregular and composed of both high and low tension beats, the latter being usually more or less abortive. Lastly, a patient quite early in the clinical evolution of the disease may have a low tension regular pulse under a disturbing influence, and as he recovers, his pulse may ultimately assume the characters of a high tension pulse, having pre- viously passed through an irregular stage in which beats of both high and low type—the latter more or less abortive—occur side by side, though commonly the beats of one or other type appear in series, separated by the interpolation of one or more beats of the other type. Too much importance must not, therefore, be attached to the condition of pulse in mitral stenosis; it may be a " third stage" pulse when the patient is in no danger, and it may be a "first stage" regular pulse, i.e. of well- maintained tension, almost to the end, while the irregular or middle stage pulse is by itself of no gravity in prognosis. Mitral Incompetence.—In no department of clinical medicine has a greater change in thought taken place during the last quarter of a century than in that concerning incompetence of the mitral valves. The importance of distin- guishing mitral disease associated with incom- petence and mitral incompetence independent of mitral disease at the beginning of that time was to a large extent, if not altogether, ignored. For such a state of thought the responsibility may be attributed to the ignoring of two simple, self-evident facts: (1) That the mitral curtains were never constructed to act inde- pendently of the contractile heart mviscle, so that whenever the latter fails in its two obvious functions of diminishing the orifice to be closed by the valves and of supporting the curtains in action there must be a likelihood of incom- petence resulting ; and (2) That the great lesion of the mitral curtains found after death in the most common cases, the rheumatic, was not crippling of the valves, so that they could not close, but deformity of them resulting in narrowing of the orifice — in stenosis. It is not denied that lesions of the mitral curtains without stenosis are met with, amply sufticient to explain their incompetence alone, but it is aflirmed that such cases are the exception and not the rule—it may be said the exception that proves the rule. Nay, in the most pronounced of them there are the best of reasons for believing that the damage of the structure of the curtains was not—even in these extreme cases—the onl^ cause of the failure in the function of the curtains, but was inseparably associated in the accomplishment of such failure with weakening and debility of the heart muscle. Moreover, when stenosis of the mitral orifice was found after death in cases in which the clinical evidence for long had pointed to incompetence as the only condition, the obvious fact that whenever there is stenosis of the mitral orifice there must be deformity of the curtains, and consequently a likelihood of incompetence, was seized to do duty in explanation of the clinical experience. To put the matter shortly, the essential lesion (the stenosis) was ignored, and the mere accident of the lesion (the incom- petence) was yielded a share of importance in disturbing the circulation to which it had absolutely no title. That the murmur of incompetence is by far the most common murmur in cases of mitral stenosis has been elsewhere demonstrated, but it is idle to say that the minute regurgitant current it probably denotes is the cause of the profound disturbance of the general circulation in mitral stenosis. The cases associated with the most serious damage to the valve curtains, apart from stenosis, are those of septic endocarditis, in which the disturbance of the general circulation that must inevitably result is but a minor matter in the evolution of the case, seeing that hitherto the disease has jDroved inevitably fatal in an acute or at least subacute illness, which compels the patient to remain in bed (vide " Septic Endocarditis," p. 113). Skoda, it is believed, first called attention to the frequency of a systolic murmur in the " pulmonary area" in association with mitral incompetence and the consequent dilatation of the right side of the heart, and many years later the view (which we cannot regard other than as a great heresy) was advocated that this systolic murmur in the " pulmonary area " was nothing else tlian the murmur of mitral incompetence conducted to the surface at this spot by the left auricular appendix presumed to be dilated. In support of this theory a disposition was manifested to change the position of this long-familiar murmur, and move it out- wards " half an inch or more to the left of the sternum " in the second intercostal space, to the spot corresponding to the tip of the left auricle as it lies to the left of the pulmonary artery. It was alleged that in chronic cardiac cases associated with habitual engorgement of the right side of the heart, the appendix of the left auricle becomes dilated, and to such an extent, indeed, as at times to occasion visible pulsation