393 INFANT feeding is most important both for the mother's sake and for the child's, and the disturbance of sleep is of little consequence, as an infant usually falls asleep again very quickly after it has been fed. It is quite easy to accustom an infant to expect its meals at regular intervals as timed by the clock ; indeed, some infants will wake almost to the minute when their feed is due, if only these regular habits are insisted upon from the very beginning. Unfortunately the habit is easily broken, and on this account the rule of regularity in infant feeding must be as the laws of the Medes and Persians. Some of the commonest troubles of infancy—such as flatulence, colic, hiccough, fretfulness and sleep- lessness—are due to neglect of this rule. Some writers have advocated the use of one artificial feed daily, on the ground that circum- stances may occasionally make it impossible for the mother to suckle at the proper time, and that if the infant is accustomed to take food from the spoon or bottle a difficulty is thus avoided, and also that it facilitates weaning. In the present writer's opinion such artificial feeding as a routine practice is certainly not to be recommended: it encourages the mother to think lightly of the importance of breast- feeding, in fact it facilitates neglect of her duty; it introduces a very serious element of risk which is totally unnecessary; and, lastly, any real difficulty in weaning is so exceptional that it may be disregarded. Variations in Human Milk Qiiantity.—-According to some observations quoted by Dr. Holt, it would seem that the average quantity of milk secreted in the twenty-four hours increases gradually during lactation from 10-16 oz. at the end of the first week, up to 30-40 oz. at the sixth to ninth month. The amount taken by the infant at each feed also increases from | to 1^ oz. during the first week up to about 3 oz. at the end of the first month, and then varies from 2 oz. to 5 oz. at the end of the third month, and from 3 oz. to 7 oz. from the third month onwards. The accurate measurement of the milk secreted by the mother, and also of that taken by the infant, is no easy matter. The latter may be determined roughly by weighing the infant immediately before and after each meal; the total amount calculated thus for the twenty- four hours gives approximately the quantity secreted in that time by the mother. A more direct and accurate method of determining the daily secretion would be to draw off' the contents of the breasts at intervals during the day and measure them, but this is hardly ever feasible. Fortunately for practical purposes, it is very rarely necessary to make any actual measure- ment of the milk, for any marked deficiency can hardly escape the mother's observation, and is sometimes obvious to any one who watches the infant at the breast—it sucks vigorously for a few minutes, and then failing to obtain milk, rejects the nipple and cries out peevishly ; in other cases it remains sucking much longer than it should, perhaps as long as half an hour or more, evidently getting the milk very slowly. Deficiency of Milk.—Even if there is reason to think that the quantity of milk secreted is below the average, it must not be hastily con- cluded that the addition of artificial food is necessary. The (juantity may be quite sufficient for the needs of the infant, and the most reliable criterion of this sufficiency, as already pointed out, is the weight of the infant; so long as this is increasing it is not only unnecessary but unwise to make any addition. Where the breast milk is insufficient it may be increased by the mother's taking milk and gruel freely. In some cases the same result may be obtained by taking malt extract. Malted liquors certainly increase the flow, and some mothers are enabled to feed their infants by taking half a pint of good beer or stout daily ; this is, however, quite unnecessary as a rule, and should never be ordered without special reason, for apart from other obvious objections, the drinking of such a beverage by the mother sometimes alters the character of the milk so that it disagrees with the infant. Excess of milk is quite uncommon, and but rarely calls for treatment. The fluids in the mother's diet should be restricted, and if there is any sign of the breast becoming unduly hard or tender, some of the milk should be drawn oft' two or three times a day in the intervals between the infant's feeds. Quality.—The proportion of each constituent of human milk is subject to some variation, and this is noticeable even in samples taken from the same mother at short intervals. The sugar and salts would seem to be more constant than the others, and their slight variations are of no practical importance. The fat and proteids show considerable variations which are of great import- ance, for excess or deficiency of either of these constituents may render the milk unsuitable for the infant. The actual proportions of each constituent can only be determined by analysis. Unfortu- nately there is no simple method available for clinical purposes in the estimation of the pro- teids, but a rough estimate can often be made from the specific gravity if the proportion of fat is known. The sugar and salts may be con- sidered as practically constant, and therefore any variation in specific gravity depends upon the fats or the proteids. The higher the pro- portion of fat the lower is the specific gravity, and consequently, if with a high proportion of fat the specific gravity is high the proportion of proteids must be above the average ; if with a low proportion of fat the specific gravity is low, the proportion of proteids must be below the average.