90 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM the tendencies and consequences of the morbid process, the endocardites have been divided into (i.) necrotic or destructive ; (ii.) proliferative, formative, or sclerosing ; and (iii.) adhesive. Simple Endocarditis Syn. — Benign, rheumatic, papillary endo- carditis. Simple endocarditis is met with in varying degrees of severity, and (i.) acute, (ii.) subacute, and (iii.) chronic varieties are usually described. A considei'ation of the chronic form may be best deferred until valvular diseases are dealt with. The acute simple variety alone need be men- tioned here. Etiology.—At present it is impossible to clearly distinguish between exciting and merely predis- posing infliiences. While several causes are usually suggested, one causal agent stands out as pre-eminent—rheumatism. Many consider it as sometimes a primary rheumatic manifesta- tion. Certainly endocai'ditis occurs in associa- tion with acute polyarticular rheumatism, or " rheumatic fever," in proportions variously estimated as from 20 to 80 per cent. The younger the subject the more common the association. It is sometimes said that the more violent the articular rheumatism, the greater the coincidence of endocarditis, but in a large number of cases it develops in association with very mild or even unrecognised attacks of rheu- matism. The first attack of rheumatic fever usually proves more damaging than later ones. Usually the endocarditis commences early in the course of the rheumatic attack, although the condition may be undetected at the time. Sometimes endocarditis develops during or follows less manifest rheumatic processes. The endocarditis occurring in scarlatina is some- times, and pi'obably in gonorrhoeal rheumatism always, of an " infective " type. Endocarditis is rare in monarticular rheumatism and in chronic rheumatism. Amongst 29 cases submitted to autopsy with apparently acute " simple " endocarditis, in the Pathological Department of the Manchester Royal Infirmary, a clear history of rheumatism had been obtained in 17, and there was reason to believe that rheumatic manifestations had been present in even a larger number. In 20 there was also evidence of old-standing valvular disease. Whether or not chorea is a manifestation of rheumatism as some would believe, it is at all events commonly associated with rheumatism and endocai-ditis. Probably some degree of endocai-ditis occurs in from 40 to 60 per cent of all cases of chorea. Endocarditis occasionally occurs in connection with the infectious fevers, particularly scarlet fevei-. Quite exceptionally endocarditis arises in the course of other acute infectious diseases, such as measles, small-pox, diphtheria, typhoid. and malaria, and is possibly then truly of " ni- fective " type. It is also said that acute endocai'ditis has in some few instances followed injury to the chest or rupture of a valve by strain. Among the predisposing conditions reference maybe made to the following:—In young subjects acute endocarditis occiirs with somewhat greater frequency in females. In later life the difference of sex is less marked. It is most common in young subjects and in early adult life. It is exceed- ingly rare in old people, a first attack being then practically unknown. The average age of fatal Manchester cases of acute endocarditis was a little over 26 years. Pre-natal endocarditis un- doubtedly occurs; indeed some pathologists consider foetal endocarditis as by no means rare. Endocarditis is not infrequently associated with malformations, particularly of the valves. Transmitted influences are of importance, apparently only in so far as they lead to the development of rheumatism. Conditions of climate, social position, occupa- tion and habit, are probably only of moment as they expose the subject to the influence of the exciting agents of endocarditis, particularly rheumatism. Morbid Anatomy.—The lesions met with in acute endocarditis are usually most conspicuous in connection with the valves, and principally affect those of the left side of the heart, except in fojtal life. The mitral valve is most com- monly involved, but in fatal cases vegetations are usually found on both aortic and mitral segments. The vegetations usually appear as a row or fringe of bead-like prominences on the auricular aspect of the auriculo-ventricular cusps, and on the ventricular aspect of the sig- moid segments, but situated a little distance from the free edge along a line corresponding to the points of maximum contact. Sometimes the vegetations are large and assume pedimculated or villous-like shapes. The development of such large fungating masses is a more characteristic feature of malignant endocarditis. Sometimes a few vegetations will be found on the chordae tendineaj, but in the simple form of endocarditis they do not generally extend to the mural endocardium. In fatal cases care must be taken to carefully distinguish between (i.) the lesions depending on the endocarditis, and (ii.) those merely asso- ciated with the endocarditis. Acute pericarditis is common. Inflammatory and degenerative myocardial changes are fre- quent, and probably account for the rapid dila- tation which occasionally leads to a fatal issue. Infarction is much less common than in the malignant form. Adherent pericardium is not infrequently met with in fatal cases, generally showing that the fatal attack has been preceded by former similar attacks. The effects of simple endocarditis may be