312 HYSTERIA in others unequal, one or other side being specially affected. While the restriction of the field of vision is permanent, its limits vary from one moment to another during the attack, due to emotion or fatigue, e.g. under prolonged examination. There is no lesion at the back of the eye on ophthalmic examination. Besides limitation of the field of vision there is partial colour-blindness, chromatopsia. In pictures the patient can distinguish the perspective, trees, etc., but cannot see the colours; everything seems grey. Dyschromatopsia is very common ; the loss of the colour-fields is elective, and is generally in a given order, the colours usually disappearing in the following order: violet, green, blue, yellow, and last of all red. The colour-fields of vision are inverted. Whereas in the normal condition blue has the widest field, in the abnormal condition red is the greatest. More rarely the disappearance of the colour-fields is in a different order, viz. violet, green, red, yellow, blue, and this modification of the colour-fields is a very important symptom in hysteria. Although dyschromatopsia is met with in other m.aladies, the order of colour dis- appearance is not the same. Thus in alcohol poisoning the red and green go first, and in tabes the red first. In the diagnosis of dyschro- matopsia these facts have considerable value. Monocular dyschromatopsia presents one interest- ing feature : the patient affected with monocular dyschromatopsia for one colour sees this colour correctly by the use of binocular vision, a fact proved by the researches of Parinaud and Pitres. The limitation of the field of vision is accom- panied by marked symptoms of asthenopia ; if any object is looked at steadily the eyeballs burn and throb, and are -wearied. Other important symptoms appear side by side with these ocular disorders, e.g. diplopia or monocular polyopia, megalopsia and micropsia. Monocular polyopia is discovered as follows: a pencil is placed vertically near the patient's eye (the other eye being closed), and then is slowly removed ten or twenty centimetres ; the patient perceives a second object on the temporal side as the pencil is moved farther off; later the two objects may recede and a third appear. This polyopia is largely due to a defect in accom- modation. These ocular phenomena always accompany anajsthesia of the conjunctival mucous membrane and more rarely antesthesia of the cornea. There is ancesthesia of taste when the gusta- tory sensations are deranged; the sense of taste may be limited, perverted, or abolished. As an example of perversions salt may be mistaken for sugar, etc. Anosmia is rarer than ageusia, and may be absolute or partial, or elective, where certain odours are perceived and others unperceived. The general sensibility of the lingual and nasal mucous membrane is sometimes increased and sometimes diminished. Disorders of the auditory nerves are sometimes subjective, sometimes objective. In the former, whistlings and sing- ing in the ear may be present, and in the latter total or partial deafness. Rinne's test gives a positive result, and Schwalach demonstrated that the perception of sound lasts longer than when the patient is in his normal state. There are also variations of hearing; a patient may hear a whisper at some distance off, and he cannot hear a watch close to his ear. This perverted acuteness of hearing may be a very pronounced feature. Disorders of the aural organs, in common with those of the ocular organs, are irregular and variable. They often coincide with anaesthesia of the auditory nerve and tym- panic membrane, but this coincidence is by no means absolute. Anpesthesia attacks not only the superficial surface of skin and mucous membrane, but descends to the muscles, tendons, periosteum, and articular ligaments. The anaesthesia in the latter is evidenced by the fact that an unnatural amount of movement can take place without in- convenience to the patient. The muscular sense is sometimes intact, some- times altered ; the patient loses the sense of the appreciation of weights, does not feel fatigue or the strain following an effort, and is insensible of the position of his limbs. These muscular troubles betoken a serious alteration in the sensory condition, and indicate some degree of anaesthesia. B. Hypercesthesia.—This is rarer than anaes- thesia, and as a rule is more difficult to recog- nise ; it differs also inasmuch as it causes much suffering to the patient. It may be general or confined to one limb, its area being limited to one or two centimetres square. These zones, called hysterogenic points or zones, may be situ- ated in the abdomen, about the ovarian or epi- gastric region, the groin, the thorax, the breasts, the clavicular region, the spinal column, from the top of the throat to the eyeballs, and the malar region. These zones may be bilateral or unilateral, and they are usuall}' first observed near the anaesthetic areas. An attack of hysteria may be brought on by rubbing or pressing these zones, in which case the zones are called spasmo- genic ; the same means also may be used to re- lieve the attack, in which case the zones are called spasmodic or spasmofrematic. The same zone can be alternately spasmogenic when it is gently pressed, or spasmofrematic when it is vigorously rubbed. As a general rule the zones situated at the level of the thorax are spasmo- genic, and the epigastric and ovarian zones are spasmofrematic. These zones ai-e limited, the bounds of hyperaesthesia are clearly defined, and the zones are liable to appear and disappear spontaneously; they can be momentarily sup- pressed by distracting the patient's attention, or by suggestion, or the influence of electrisation.