HOMO CAUDATUS 254 embryonic life goes on the caudal filament atrophies; the part containing vertebrse (coccy- geal projection or Steisslioclcer) remains for a time as a prominence, but gradually disappears by the growth and alterations in surrounding parts and by the reduction (by fusion) of the seven or six coccygeal vertebrse to five, four, or three. It begins, now, to be clear that these human " tails" are the result of arrested develop- ment. The soft, boneless tails are due to per- sistence of the caudal filament (His), and the rarer cartilaginous or osseous tails are due to the arrest of development in the later stage, when only the Steisshiicker is left. We are not in a position to explain completely how the arrest is brought about, or how the development of neighbouring parts affects it or is affected by it ; but we may surmise, with Schceffer {loc. cit.) and others, that either amniotic compression or amniotic adhesions or both have something to do with it. It is interesting to note that several of the associated malformations {e.g. sympodia) are ascribed to amniotic narrowness, and it is quite possible that the caudal fold or part of the amnion may remain attached to the caudal fila- ment or Steisshuckei- and prevent its normal atrophy or its embedment in the surrounding structures. Human "tails," therefore, would seem to be due to the persistence of a state which is transitorily present in the human embryo itself; no evidence can be extracted from them to support the view that they are atavistic revivals of the animal tail of a far- back ancestor. Whatever may be its origin, the human " tail" had best be removed by the surgeon's knife to relieve the patient from its " discomfort and reproach." Homoeopathy. See Medicine, His- tory OP {Nineteenth Century). HomolOgfOUS.—In Pathology a homo- logous growth is one having the same structure as that of the normal tissue of the part {e.g. a myoma of the uterus); in Obstetrics, homologous twins are those born within the same chorion (uniovular or monochorionic), and showing usually a great resemblance to each other; the term is opposed to heterologous. Homonataloin.—A lower homologue of nataluin and found along with it in Natal aloes. Homonymous. —" Applied to the two images of one object seen in looking at a point nearer than the object, when the right image is that seen by the right eye and the left by the left; opposed to heteronymous" {Murray, N.E.D.). See Retina and Optic Nerve {Physi- ology, Homonymous Hemianopia). Homopterocarpin.—A substance (Cj.^HjoOg) found m red sandalwood {Pterocarpus santalinus), along with pterocarpin (CjQHgOg) and santalin (Cj^Hj^Og). Homoquinine. — An alkaloid (C.2,|H.,^N.,0o) which is a compound of cupreine (CigH;,N20;,) and quinine {G,J^.-,^N^02,^B.^0) ; and is also known as ultra quinine. Homotype.—One organ or part is said to be homotypal or homotypic of another when it is of the same structure; a homologue, espe- cially a lateral or serial homologue. HomunCUluS.—A mannikin or dwarf. See Dwarfism. Honey.—Mel Depuratum : clarified honej'. Preparation — Oxymel, a mixture of honey, acetic acid, and water. Dose—1-25. It is also contained in Confectio Piperis, Oxymel Scillaj, and Mel Boracis. Honey mixed with water is a good basis for gargles. It relieves dryness of the mouth and fauces, facilitates swallowing, and lessens congestion of the throat by increas- ing the secretion of mucus. It is frequently given as an ingredient of expectorant mixtures. It has a slightly laxative action, and may be taken by children for this purpose. Hook.—The term " hook " has been given to a number of different instruments used in Surgery and Midwifery : for instance, various hooks (lens hook, fixation hook, squint hook, and Tyrrell's hook) are used in operations on the eye; Malgaigne's hooks were used for approximating the pieces of a fractured patella; there are tonsil hooks, uvula hooks, cleft palate hooks, and tracheotomy hooks, used in opera- tions on the tonsils, uvula, soft palate, and the trachea, and polypus hooks for the fixation of aural polypi, etc. ; the tenaculum is a sort of cervix uteri hook {see Gynaecology, Diagnosis in); the blunt hook of Obstetrics is used to aid the expulsion of the infant in breech cases, etc. {see Labour, Management, Podalic Presenta- tions), the sharp hook or crotchet to extract a perforated head {see Labour, Operations, Em- hryotomy), and Ramsbotham's sharp hook or C. Braun's decapitating hook or key to decapitate the foetus in impacted shoulder cases {see Labour, Operations, Embryotomy in Trunk Presentations). Hookworm Disease.—Ankylostomi- asis, miner's ana;mia, or uncinariasis. See Anchylostomiasis ; Parasites {Strongylidce). Hopkins' iVIethod. See Uric Acid {Detection hy ammonium chloride). HopiOCephaiuS. See Snake-Bites {Col- ubrine Snakes, Elapidct). Hops.—Lupulus. The strobiles of ordinary hops, llunmlus lupulus. The most important