107 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM patient's countenance is apt to assume a greenish tinge; that to the experienced observer is pecu- harly characteristic of the final stage of cardiac disease. Palpitation, or the too forcible or too frequent beating of the heart, whereby its action becomes perceptible to the individual, is an unimportant symptom in the majority of cases of organic heart disease, although it occupies a high position in the estimation of the laity. Moreover, in some cases of organic disease it is a cause of much distress. The writer has seen this result most frequently in cases of aortic incompetence, in which, notwithstanding huge enlargement of the left ventricle, the right side of the heart was little involved. Also in Graves' disease, which often leads ultimately to cardiac dilata- tion too, he has witnessed the symptom in most distressing severity. Patients often confuse various disturbances of their cardiac action under the term palpitation, which agree only in one respect, namely, that they make the in- dividual aware of the movement of his heart. Thus the too forcible beat that follows an inter- mission or an abortive beat, and the peculiar " fluttering" sensation that often accompanies irregular action, are frequently described as " palpitation," so that the physician has to be careful not to accept the term in its proper significance too readily. Sometimes the patient seems to be hyperaesthetic, so that he is aware of his heart's action, though to the observer it seems neither unduly forcible nor sufficiently frequent to occasion the sensation, while it is quite regular. Cardiac Pain.—The great pain associated with heart disease is angina pectoris, which seems unquestionably dependent—absolutely as far as the writer's own experience goes—on obstruction either at the orifice or in the course of the coronary arteries, one or both. Angina pectoris, however, is specially described in a separate article in this work. {See " Angina Pectoris," vol. i. p. 187). Butitis astonishing how frequently the subjects of morbus cordis com- plain of local pain in the region of the affected organ. The writer is aware that the heart itself is stated by physiologists to be directly insensitive to pain, but he has good grounds for questioning the statement in disease. It may be that though in health the heart is insensi- tive, it acquires sensitiveness to pain in disease. That the heart itself does in disease become painful, though not severely, the writer cannot doubt in view of his clinical experience. Such local pain as is complained of by genuine heart sufferers is certainly seldom or never acute and severe, while it is often accompanied by some deep local tenderness over the apex-beat as well as by superficial tenderness to pressure over the second and third left costal cartilages, although the latter is not properly direct tenderness, but is associated with the relationship existing between the visceral and peripheral nerve-dis- tribution proceeding from the spinal segment concerned in cardiac innervation, which is situated in the upper dorsal region. Pulmonary Conditions.-—In correspondence with the early dyspnoea experienced by sufferers from cardiac disease the consequences of lung congestion soon manifest themselves. Among the earliest of these is a hitherto unwonted tendency to bronchial catarrh, with its ordinary symptoms and physical signs : the latter rhonchi and, in severe attacks, moist sounds, which are apt to be most abundant at or to be limited to the bases of the lungs. As such attacks succeed one another these moist sounds linger longer after each attack, until their presence may become habitual, while the rhonchi from time to time clear away. In other cases, with neither present evidence of nor distinct history of bronchitis, moist sounds are found at the bases of the lungs, the bubble they denote being evidently of comparatively small size, while in still other cases a very fine bubbling sound limited to the end of inspiration, to which the term crepitation or " vesicular bubble " (Skoda) can hardly be denied, is persistently present for long periods, while rise of temperature, indica- tive of inflammatory action, is entirely absent. The explanation of these sounds, which are usually heard equally on both sides, is no doubt an oedematous condition of the lung-bases. Nowhere, so well as in the lungs, do we see illustrated the pathological law that venously congested organs are prone to become in- flamed. A large number of sufferers from chronic cardiac disease are carried off in the end by a pneumonic complication, and such processes are often associated with " pulmonary apoplexy," which will be considered in another part of this article (under Embolism). There is little or nothing distinctive in the sputa of the cardiac sufferer from bronchitis; they present the ordinary characters of " bron- chitic " sputa. Little less important than the lung conditions are affections of the pleura in chronic heart disease. Effusion is usually the most important fact, and such effusion may be of inflammatory origin, or a simple dropsy as that of so many other parts. Pleuritis without effusion is usually secondary to some intra-pulmonary pathological state, such as embolism or pneumonia, when it is of quite subordinate importance. The possi- bility of one or both pleural sacs having become obliterated as the result of adhesions from old pleuritis must be borne in mind. When such obliteration has taken place, instead of the usual hydrothorax, oedema of the lung occurs. As regards the physical signs of hydrothorax, it is perhaps unnecessary to point out that the fluid in the case of a simple dropsy of the pleura is just as immobile as that of a pleuritis, when the