499 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS study for him and already knows the part. Far more commonly, however, the character to which the reduced consciousness attaches is one familiar, at least in its essentials, to the mind. It is a vice, for example, of hosts of idle minds to revel in day-dreams of an attractive form. Factory hands, we are told, are much addicted to the dissipation of resorting to a fancy-self, a glorified self, who perhaps lives in a castle, with many horses and untold servants, or who has wardrobefuls of fine dresses, count- less admirers, and unlimited opportunity of romantic adventure; and those who have studied the mental habits of that class tell us that these people revert to this fancy-self when they have nothing else to think about, and, day after day, imagine themselves in their romantic character, enjoying a fancy-life in ever-varying circumstances. If these things be true, we have here an explanation of the assumption by the brain, when normal personality wanes, of a grandiose mode of consciousness and of a name which expresses it. For historical characters, long since dead, are not the most popular in insanity. The most commonly assumed identities are living celebrities and their re- lations, and nearly always aristocratic celebrities whose names are an emblem of rank and power. Many persons who pass for religious are victims of a like kind of vice. Their religious phase does not bind their whole life together, but is dissociated from general activities and is often almost entirely sensuous. It is a phase to which men and women resort when they wish " to forget the world," and then they languish in florid imagination and in unbridled feeling, very much as if under the influence of a nai-cotic. Such dissociations perhaps explain some of the religiose forms of insanity. Com- pare also the love-dreams of some minds, fed on sentimental novelettes; also the adventui-e- dreams of message-boys who gorge themselves on "penny dreadfuls." Still more intelligible are those cases of alternative consciousness of which the two phases correspond to two actual stages in the life-history of the patient. Last year such a case came within my knowledge—a German colonel who spent his latter days in England. After an apoplexy he became aphasic and forget- ful, subject, as these paralytic cases often are, to emotional excesses, and continually semi- delirious. Some days he was in a German phase, speaking German nearly all the time, and recalling German people and incidents. Other days he spoke English almost exclusively, and his reminiscences referred chiefly to English experiences. In his less pronounced phases, his disordered consciousness embraced both German and English images. Of such varieties, L. Bruce's ^ case is a good sample. His patient a.ppeared to alternate between a right-sided and ' Brain, vol. Ixix. a left-sided celebi-ation, with states also in which both hemispheres were active. At all events the man was in one phase an alert, mischievous maniac, Avhose sensibilities were keen, who spoke English, used the right hand freely and wrote, not very clearly, from left to right; and in another phase he was demented and dull, manifested unmistakable impairments of sensi- bility, spoke a kind of Welsh gibberish, carried his right hand usually in his pocket, but used his left freely, and wrote with his left hand in mirror-fashion. He also had ambidextrous phases whose mental state was a mixture of the English and Welsh modes. But the dissociation was so complete that in his pronounced Welsh phase he entirely forgot the facts of his English phase, and vice versa, though his English con- ciousness retained facts of its own phase. But there are still other cases which cannot be explained as the revival of actual stages of a life's history. Many cases have been recorded of alternation between the real personality and that of some one else. All that we can surmise about such cases is that the brain had received vivid impressions of that other self, had sub- consciously compovmded them, and assumed the new personality at times and for a brief period to revert again, after a sleep perhaps, to the modes of activity of the real self. And, short of the assumption of a new identity, the loss of the real identity is very common in dis- ordered minds. Many patients complain that they feel they are not themselves, and when they speak it is some one else's voice and not even their own opinions which we hear, or that the things they do are not their own actions but those of an interloper. All such impairments of normal identity are peculiarly liable to occur in persons whose activities are too often dissociated. Stable brains are brains in which one mode of con- sciousness prevails and to which all other activities are subordinate. A brain which entertains diverse interests and pursuits not correlated by any unifying idea or feeling is by nature unstable, and an abrupt failure is apt to occur when one phase of the mind includes a conscience which will not condone the pursuits followed in the other phase. Tandem-driving is a precarious mode of progression when the tracer wants to be leader and the leader dis- approves. Insane Defects of Inhibition.—Sane inhibi- tion is obviously impaired in all acute insanities. Melancholia or mania supervenes only when normal personality fails, and that implies that the patient's sane will is lost, though he may manifest determination or impulsiveness in disorderly directions. In Stupor, as we have seen, the expressional functions are profoundly disordered, the muscular or projective elements in life suffer great impairment, and anergia prevails. It may be that the will in its more