DIAGNOSIS IN GYNECOLOGY, separating and keeping out of the way the (1) Indications are the same as those for percussion, as a rule, first with patient on the back and then lying on the side and sitting up; (6) Details: from the percussion note we can often determine more exactly the outlines and nature of abdominal swellings, their relations, and the presence or absence of free fluid. (4) Auscultation : (a) Method: with stetho- scope or phonendoscope, usually in the hypo- gastric and iliac areas; {h) Details : the results are generally negative {e.g. no footal heart sounds), but may hear uterine souffle (in myo- mata), and, of course, pregnancy may be present although the case has been hitherto regarded as non-obstetrical. (5) Mensuration : (a) Method : tape measure or cyrtometer; [h) Details may be useful in estimating rate of growth of abdominal en- largement. 4. Inspection of Pudenda : only necessary if there is suspicion of gonorrhoea or syphilis, when something is said " to come down " either in front (e.//. prolapsus uteri) or behind {e.fj. piles), or if there is local tenderness {e.g. Bar- tholian abscess, or urethral caruncle); do not, in other cases, make this a routine practice. 5. Examination per Vaginam. — (1) Indica- tions : {a) in all women who are married and who complain of symptoms pointing (even indistinctly) to a pelvic cause; if refused, then (save in the case of very nervous women seen for the first time and in whom the symptoms are not urgent) the gynaecologist should not consent to deal with the case ; {b) in unmarried women, in whom the pelvic symptoms are neither urgent nor long continued, it is well to try first general or medicinal means of treatment, but if these fail a vaginal examination should be no longer postponed, e.g. in (a) menorrhagia, {[i) amenorrhoca, and (y) dysmenorrhoea which have not been benefited by such means as (a) regula- tion of the bowels, (/i) iron and arsenic, and (y) such a simple remedy (in 3i- doses) as spiritus chloroformi and spiritus ammonige aromatici (aa. §ss.) made up with liquor ammonise acetatis (si.); tlie value of the rectal examination in young inimarried women is undoubted, but it is not free from objection. Note.—The word examination, if unqualified by " of the chest" or " of the lungs " is under- stood by women to mean "the vaginal"; the presence of menstruation, save in emergencies, contra-indicates the vaginal examination. (2) Method : the patient lies on her left side, with her hips near the edge of the couch or bed, and with the knees drawn up towards the abdomen ; the gynaecologist thoroughly washes his hands with soap and water (using the nail brush), and anoints the fore and middle fingers of the right hand with vaseline (to facilitate entrance and give sensitiveness); he then folds these two fingers up in the palm and passes his hand towards the posterior part of the vulva, patient's garments or the bedclothes with his left hand as he does so; having reached the perineum he extends the fore and middle fingers of the right hand and introduces them into the vaginal orifice which lies immediately in front. {Note.—It is well to practise the use of the left hand, for the position of the patient or the couch may make it necessary for the examina- tion to take place with the woman lying on her right side.) (3) Details to be noted : observe in order the following points :— (a) Condition of the vaginal orifice : whether it be patulous or narrow, the state of the perineum (intact, ruptured, and to what extent), presence of growths attached to labia, protrusion of masses through vulva, pain or painful spasm (vaginismus) at orifice. {b) Condition of the walls and cavity : size and shape of canal, presence or absence of ruga; on walls, temperature and moisture, tumours attached to walls or lying in canal, foreign bodies (plugs, pessaries), discharge (secretion), and character. (c) Condition of cervix uteri and os: form, size, consistence, position, mobility, and direc- tion of cervix; form, size, and dii'ection of os ; state of lips of os (fissured, lacerated, swollen); projection of tumours, fragments of abortion sac, or pessaries through os. {d) Condition of posterior vaginal fornix or fossa (keeping in mind anatomical relations): presence of any swelling in it which causes it to project into the vaginal canal; such a swell- ing may be (a) faeces in rectum, tumours, (/3) celliilitic (inflammatory) deposit round rectum, (y) inflammatory deposit or effusion or ascitic fluid in pouch of Douglas, (6) body of retro- verted or retroflexed uterus (moving with cer- vix), (e) tumour (fibroid) attached to posterior wall of uterus, (0 pi'olapsed or enlarged ovary or Fallopian tube {e.g. tubal pregnancy) in pouch of Douglas, {ij) abdominal organs {e.g. kidney) or tumours growing from them which have gravitated into pouch of Douglas. (e) Condition of anterior fornix (keeping in mind anatomical relations): a firm body felt through it may be body of uterus with or without tumour attached, cellulitic deposit, tumour or stone in bladder, or displaced ovary or tube. (/) Condition of lateral fornices (keeping in mind anatomical relations): a swelling felt at side may be cellulitic deposit in broad ligament, extra-uterine pregnancy, ovarian or tubal growth, or hfematoma ; posteriorly a tense or contracted utero-sacral ligament may be felt. {Note.— Morbid states in the lateral fornices are usually associated with uterine displacement.) 6. Bimanual Exajiination : most important; the per vaginam is simply the first stage of the bimanual.