284 HYPERCHONDROMA Hyperchondroma.—A tumour com- posed of cartilage. HyperchromatOSiS.—Excessive pig- mentation, especially in certain forms of skin disease, congenital or acquired (Auspifz). H y pe rc i n es i S. — Excessive muscular action ; spasm ; it is opposed to hypocinesis. HypercyesiS.—Superfcetation. Hyperdactyly.—Polydactyly. See De- FORJiiTiBS {Hand mid Fingers). HyperdesmOSiS.—Increase of connec- tive tissue. Hyperdi erotism.—When a sphygmo- graphic tracing shows the dicrotic notch lying below the abscissa the pulse is said to show hyperdicrotism. See Pulse (Vahie of Sphygmo- gram, Position of Dicrotic Notch). HyperemesiS. — Excessive vomiting, such as occurs especially in pregnancy. See Pregnancy, Affections and Complications (^Digestive). Hyperencephaly.—The teratological type in which there is partial absence of the cranial vault (the occiput is usually present), and the brain lies outside. See Teratology. H y pe re p i n e p h ry.—A sy mptom - com- plex or syndrome consisting of headache, ear symptoms (vertigo, tinnitus), eye symptoms (amaurosis, glaucoma), transitory aphasia and hemiplegia, with arterial hypertension; it is regarded as due to the circulation in the body of too much adrenalin on account of functional superactivity of the adrenal glands. HypererethismuS.—A state of ex- cessive irritability. Hyperesophoria. See Ocular Mus- cles {Ahnormal Position). Hyperexophoria. See Ocular Mus- cles {Ahnorvial Position). HypergfenSia. — Excessive sensitive- ness of taste. See Fifth Nerve, Affections OF {Affections of Taste) ; Hysteria {Sensory Disorders). HyperglobuIia.—Excess of red cells in the blood; polycythsemia. Hy perhedon ia. — Excessive pleasure experienced in doing agreeable acts (Gr. ijSov^, pleasure). Hyperidrosis.—The excessive secretion of sweat. See Hysteria {Disorders of Secretion); Nails, Affections of {In Skin Diseases, e.g. Hyperidrosis); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Arsenical Poisoning, Symptomatology); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Hyperidrosis). HyperinosiS. — Excessive amount of fibrin in the blood. Hy peri n volution. — Superinvolution, e.g. of the uterus after delivery. See Menstru- ation AND its Disorders {Amenorrhoea, Atrophy of the Uterus). HyperkeratOSiS.—Excessive develop- ment of the stratum corneum of the epidermis, congenital or acquired. *See Ichthyosis; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Arsenical Poisoning, Symptoms, HyperJceratosis); Preg- nancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Foetal Ich- thyosis). Hyperkinesis. See Hypercinesis. Hyperiactation. — Long-continued suckling, common among the poorer classes, among whom the erroneous idea is prevalent that conception may thus be prevented; it results in a depreciation of the general health and possibly in hyperinvolution of the uterus; immediate weaning is the proper remedy. HyperleuCOCytOSiS. See Immunity. Hypermetropia. See Asthenopia {Causes, Refractive) ; Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis); Glaucoma {Predisposing Causes) ; Refraction {Hypermetropia) ; Retinoscopy {Hypermetropia). Hypermnesia.—Abnormal power of remembering. See Memory in Health and Disease {Hypermnesia or Excitations of Memory). Hypernepiiroma. — A renal tumour, often of great size, growing upon or in the interior of the kidney, derived from " rests " of adrenal tissue. Hypernoea.—Excessive mental activity (in disease), especially as regards imagination. Hyperonychia.—Hypertrophy of the nails, e.g. in foetal ichthyosis. Hyperopia.—Hypermetropia {q.v.). Hyperosmia. -—Increased sensitiveness to smell. See Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Hyper- osmia). Hyperostosis.—Increased growth or hyperplasia of bone. See Hypertrophy {Uni- lateral) ; Rickets {Clinical Features, Limbs). Hyperplialang^y. —A structural ano- maly consisting in an increase in the number of phalanges in a digit, e.g. three phalanges in a thumb and four in one of the other fingers.