HYDATID DISEASE 267 bulging of the outer table, and may at the same time cause signs of cerebral tumour. Echinococci of the Nervous System.—Sixty- eight cases of echinococci in the brain are recorded by Neisser. The cyst may develop in the meninges, cortex, or central white matter. It is usually single and of limited size, being as a rule as large as a nut or an orange. The adventitious capsule is either poorly developed or entirely awanting. The cyst grows slowly, and produces the general signs of a cerebral tumour, with localising symptoms according to its site. Sudden death may occur at any time from rupture of the cyst, but probably both the prognosis and the results of treatment are more favourable than in many other forms of cerebral tumour. Echinococci in the cerebellum are very rare, in the medulla and spinal nerves they are almost unknown. In the spinal canal about 14 cases have been recorded, and the cyst usually invades the dura mater from without. Blaschek finds that there are 59 cases of echinococci in the orbit on record; the cyst causes gradual exophthalmos and amblyopia, and a fluctuating swelling may sometimes be found between the orbital margin and bulb. The heart is rarely affected. According to Roche there were in 1897 only 45 cases recorded, and in the case which he himself records there was sudden death, as so often occurs. Hydatid disease in arteries, veins, parotid, thyroid, muscles, subcutaneous tissues, and other sites is exceedingly rare. Gerulanos narrates a case where the muscles were affected with no less than 100 echinococcus cysts, varying in size from a lentil to that of two fists. A single echinococcus in the muscles is more common and may be mistaken for a lipoma, malignant tumour, or abscess. Multiple Echinococci. — The symptoms vary according to the number, site, and size of the cysts. The liver is often enlarged, and there may be great abdominal distension, with fluctu- ating swellings in various parts of the abdomen, or more rarely in other parts, e.g. the axilla. Moore records such a case:— The patient, set. 38, had suffered occasionally from severe abdominal pains for a twelvemonth, and for the last seven months the abdomen had steadily increased in size. The patient had never any vomiting or jaundice. A number of rounded movable swellings could be felt all over the abdomen, but there was no ascites or hepatic enlargement. He was operated on four times, 47 cysts being dealt with in all, whilst at the first operation the whole omentum was seen to be studded with cysts varying in size from an orange to a hazel-nut. The patient made a good recovery. Diagnosis.—The apparently good health and unimpaired nutrition of the patient, the history of the slow yet steady growth of the tumour, and the presence of a cystic swelling, are import- ant. The diagnosis, however, must be mainly made by exclusion. The chief conditions from which hydatid disease of the liver has to be dis- tinguished are distended gall-bladder, hepatic abscess, various hepatic tumours, subphrenic abscess, and pleuritic effusion. The initial site of the swelling should be ascertained. If this prove to have been, say, the right or left hypo- chondrium, pelvic hydatids can be excluded. If the swelling commenced towards the middle line, and is very movable, but does not move on respiration, the cyst has possibly developed in the omentum. If the swelling started in the left hypochondrium it may be impossible, until the abdomen is opened, to say whether the cyst belongs to the left lobe of the liver or the spleen. Echinococcus of the kidney develops behind the colon. Hydatid disease in the pelvis can in most instances only be suspected; the diagnosis must be made at the time of operation; similarly with cerebral and spinal echinococci. Multiple echinococci in the abdomen may be mistaken for tubercular peritonitis. The special points as to pulmonary echinococci are the copious sputum with its peculiar characteristic microscopic ap- pearances, the localised area of dulness, and in most cases the absence, after repeated examina- tion, of tubercle bacilli. A cyst in the lower lobe of the left lung may be indistinguishable from one of the spleen. To the Rontgen rays, all echinococci, not only those with calcified walls, are comparatively non-transparent, and as regards the size and extent of some abdom- inal echinococci, skiagraphy has been claimed to yield moi-e information than ordinary physical examination. It may be useful, too, in locating pulmonary echinococci (Levy-Dorn and Zadek, Berl. Min. Wochns., 1899). If the cyst have ruptured, the diagnosis is usually comparatively easy. Otherwise a de- finite diagnosis is often impossible without an exploratory puncture. As fluid in some varie- ties of hydronephrosis and cerebro-spinal fluid closely resemble hydatid fluid chemically, the absence of albumin is not so characteristic of the latter as scolices, hooks, etc., the presence of which enables a positive diagnosis to be made. Tapping, however, unless it can be followed by immediate operation, should never be performed. For it is sometimes followed by serious symp- toms, such as shock, syncope, dyspnoea, vomit- ing, convulsions, or high fever. Tapping is not infrequently followed by suppuration in the cyst, and the puncture of an abdominal hydatid may bring about the development of multiple echino- cocci of the peritoneum, or the trocar may wound some important structure such as the portal vein. An urticarial eruption, termed the " hydatid rash," may also appear after puncture, coming on rapidly, and involving the abdomen, thorax, face, and arms. The rash persists for 24 to 72 hoiu's, and is usually accompanied by severe pruritus. These symptoms are thought to be