HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 127 Aortic Incompetence.—Incompetence of the aortic valves differs considerably from aortic stenosis with regard to its effect on the chamber of the heart that is immediately and chiefly concerned—-the left ventricle. The changes that occur in the latter are dilatation and hyper- trophy. Very little consideration of the mode in which these changes are brought about will render it evident that the former process must be the first established, and there is no difficulty in accoimting for the latter process, the former once established. With the advent of aortic incompetence, the ventricle has to accommodate the regurgitated blood plus the normal quantity, if the circulation is to be maintained. But the larger the cavity of the ventricle the greater must be, by physical law, the contractile power requisite to empty it. These theoretical con- siderations are abundantly borne out by clinical experience. It may be said, indeed, that aortic incompetence is the lesion of all others that is found associated with a huge left ventricle. As the muscle of this chamber begins to fail in vigour, secondary results of such failure become manifest, and take the usual forms of mitral re- gurgitation and imperfect systole, which in their train bring disturbance of the pulmonary circula- tion and engorgement, and finally dilatation of the right ventricle and auricle, usually associated with incompetence of the tricuspid valves and imperfect systole from muscle failure. Of course in a rheumatic case it is always exceedingly probable that the mitral valves are independently damaged and deformed, rheumatic endocarditis seemingly having a preference for the mitral valves. Inspection.—One of the most notable signs of aortic incompetence is the exaggeration of ai'terial pulsation, which is perhaps nowhere better dis- played than in the neck. The upper portion of the neck is the best to observe, in looking for this sign, as in the late stages of the disease venous pulsation may be pronounced as well, and the latter is most noticeable at the base of the neck. So long as the auricle retains its contractile activity the venous pulsation will appear to be double or undulating, as already explained, while the slightest pressure over the vein at the root of the neck at once stops the venous pulsation, the arterial pulsation remain- ing unaltered. The peculiar throb of the carotids at the upper part of the neck is one of the most striking clinical signs of this valve-lesion, and depends on the wide variation between the maximum and minimum blood-pressures that results from it. All the arteries of the body participate in the character, but the larger vessels are those to which attention should be directed. Very rarely various superficial veins may be seen to pulsate, but the same phenomenon is occasionally met with in other forms of cardiac disease. Under inspection must be mentioned a minor sign of aortic incompetence already described, namely, the so-called "capillary pulsation" that becomes visible when a patch or streak of ery- thema is produced on the forehead by rubbing a hard substance, as the finger-nail, over the skin. The erythema is seen to redden and pale with the heart-beats. Proceeding to the examination of the cardiac region the increased extent and displacement of the apex-beat will usually bear witness to the enlargement of the left ventricle. Epigastric impulse will be more or less pronouncecl accord- ing to the degree of implication of the right ventricle. In a few cases the impulse of a huge left ventricle would seem to be predominant even in the epigastrium, but in such cases the left ventricular impulse is widely diffused, while the indications of much implication of the right chambers are absent or ill-marked. Pulsation of the liver itself, again, is much less likely to be met with in aortic than in mitral cases. Our considerations led us to the conclusion that there is no lesion that more readily dilates the left ventricle than aortic incompetence, and when the ventricle is not only large, but has lost its shape and become rounded, a true apex- beat tends to disappear, and the impulse of the left ventricle that remains is diffuse and ex- tensive. On the other hand, all visible impulse may cease, an indication of failing power on the part of the heart muscle, especially the portion forming the left ventricle. The differences with regard to the natural impulse that are met with in individuals must be borne in mind : what is referred to specially here is progressive change in the course of the case. If the aorta becomes dilated, pulsation may become A'isible in the suprasternal notch, and in the second and first interspaces close to the sternum, a sign essentially due to the enlarge- ment of the vessel, though promoted by the incompetence of the valves. Palpatio7i is useful chiefly to confirm the indications afforded by inspection. The force of the visible impulses can be better estimated by it, and so an inference be drawn more correctly as to the power of the heart muscle. Thrills are also ascertained by it. Over the aorta there may be a systolic or a diastolic thrill, or both. A systolic thrill—due to dilatation—is the more common in this region, though in rare cases a diastolic thrill is perceptible, and, curiously, may be limited to the apex. Such a thrill as this last probably in no way entitles to the assumption of any special condition of lesion in the valves, such as a long tag hanging down into the ventricle, etc., for the writer has found a diastolic thrill at the apex when the aortic incompetence was due to dilatation of the aorta and its orifice only, and was unassociated with any valve lesion—aortic or mitral. When the ventricular impulses, especially the left, are invisible, the tactus eruditus of a skilful observer