HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF 231 with age; in children it comes second after the spine; in adolescents it comes third after the spine and knee. In a certain number of cases hip disease is primary in the sense that it is the only dis- coverable tuberculous lesion ; in others it follows upon tuberculosis of the lung, kidney, lym- phatic glands, etc., and is thus to be regarded as definitely metastatic and less favourable. When it develops after an injury the patient is to be regarded as already tuberculous, and the injury merely plays the part of a localising factor. Pathological Anatomy.—This will only be considered in so far as it affords an explanation of certain of the clinical features, or affords guidance in diagnosis and treatment. I. The relative frequency of disease in the synovial membrane and in the bones has an important bearing on prognosis ; while recovery under conservative treatment may be reasonably anticipated in disease of synovial origin, opera- tive measures will be required in the majority of cases in which there are lesions in the bones. Observations based on specimens removed by operation or preserved in museums are mislead- ing, as these are derived from the graver and more persistent forms of the disease. The general experience, however, is unanimous that bone lesions bulk more largely in the pathology of hip disease than is the case in other joints. The most recent estimate is that given by Krause based on 177 cases; the origin of the disease was osseous in 129, synovial in 26, and doubtful in 22. The proportion of osseous disease would appear to be even higher in the case of children; synovial disease per se is less infrequent in young adults, and in cases where other joints are affected simultaneously with the hip. II. Seat of the Bone Lesions.—The acetabulum and upper end of the femur are affected in about equal proportion. The most frequent site in the femur is at or near the junction of the epiphysis and neck of the bone; in this situa- tion the tuberculous material has only to erupt through the cortex of the bone in order to infect the synovial membrane or the entire joint. Gross lesions at the epiphysial junction may cause detachment of the epiphysis, and the latter may subsequently become fixed in the acetabulum. Lesions in the epiphysis itself are on a smaller scale. Those at the base of the neck and in the trochanter, although capable of running an extra-articular course, are, if left to themselves, liable to extend to the joint; in exceptional cases they may do so by tunnelling the cervix and head of the bone. In the acetabulum the wall or the floor may be the original site of the disease ; in either case the joint can scarcely escape infec- tion, and the latter is usually more serious than when it arises in the femur. III. natm-e of the bone lesions has a con- siderable influence on the clinical features of hip disease; we may distinguish between the primary lesions, which are essentially tuber- culous, and the secondary lesions, which are largely the result of pressure. The tuberculous lesions present the same characters and wide variation as in other joints; it should be noted, however, that the sclerosed foci, which result in necrosis, are comparatively frequent, especially in the femur, where they are usually wedge-shaped, the base of the wedge abutting on the epiphysial disc or on the articular surface of the head. Riedel estimated that sequestra are present in 70 per cent of the cases subjected to operation. Disease in the floor of the acetabulum may result in per- foration at one or at several points, and in the formation of an abscess within the pelvis. Gross alterations on the pelvic aspect of the acetabulum may be discovered on rectal ex- amination. The secondary changes from pressure involve an alteration in the size and shape of the bones subsequent to the destruction of the articular cartilage. While the disappearance of the surface bone may be the direct result of the tuberculous process, the more extensive altera- tions, at present under consideration, are the result of the absorption of bone, already softened by inflammation (rarefying ostitis), under the influence of pressure. In untreated cases, the bones, being immobilised in a definite position by muscular contraction, exercise a continuous