310 HYSTEKIA tiglitneas which forces the sutferei- to tear oft' her clothing. The "hysteric fit" produces a sensation of suffocation and strangulation. The aura in certain cases begins in the epigastrium, instead of the ovarian zone, and follows the same course. A cephalic aura is marked by throbbing veins in the temples, singing in the ears, and specks floating before the eyes; such an attack often commences in the back portion of the brain (clou hysterique). In men the auraj belong to the testicular zones and the pseudo- ovarian zones. First Period, or Epileptic Period..—This de- velops in three phases. In the first phase the aura is followed by shocks; without warning the patient loses consciousness, the breathing- stops, the head rolls and falls back, the mouth is open, the face distorted, the eyes convulsed, the limbs twisted, the body heaving up and down. The patient now becomes rigid, the throat swells, the veins are swollen and project- ing, the face is cyanosed and puffy, the features are rigid and a little froth escapes the lips. The arms are thrown up, the elbows out, the wrists bent, and the fists clenched ; the lower limbs are extended, the knees pressed one against the other, and the feet pointed. The body is usually in a state of opisthotonos, more rarely in a state of emprosthotonos, or sideways in pleurothotonos. This phase of tonic contrac- ture is usually brief, lasting only one or two minutes. Two phenomena are characteristic of it, namely, loss of consciousness and spasms in breathing. This tonic phase is succeeded by the clonic phase, as in epilepsy. The breathing- recommences, irregularly and in hurried jerks; the whole body is shaken by rapid and extensive convulsive motions usually more pronounced on one side, the head oscillates, and the abdomen is distended. After a time the convulsions cease, and a phase of muscular resolution begins ; this is the third period of the epileptic period. The patient is stretched on his back, his face contracted and the head sunk, the eyelids rising or falling from time to time, and the breathing regular and stertorous. The patient is now in a state of coma, interrupted by slight shocks and a degree of contracture; this phase lasts from two to five minutes. Second Period, or Period of Convulsions.— Convulsions appear in two forms: (1) Contor- tions or clownish attitudes. (2) Emotional attitudes. The phase of contortions is charac- terised by disordered movements, attempts at wrestling, or trials of strength (clownism). The attitude called the arc de cercle appears during this phase, the body raising itself from the bed, and only resting on the head and the heels. The arc de cercle is generally anterior, more rarely posterior or lateral; the face is convulsed and grimacing. The movements of the body are more pronounced than in the preceding period, they simulate bowing, etc., and the limbs are distorted. The patient cries and shouts, tries to bite, and becomes so violent that he has to be held down by force. His attitudes corre- spond to his various emotions. There exists a transition from this phase to the following one, the phase of emotional attitudes. The patient expresses by attitudes his mental condition: anger, prayer, etc. Reminiscences of former hallucinations or scenes which occurred before his seizure, such as violin-playing, disputes, etc., powerfully affect his attitudes. When the attack reaches its height a kind of somnam- bulistic trance occurs, lasting from five to fifteen minutes. As the patient recovers he can often explain his attitudes, for he often remembers the hallucinations. Period of Delirium.—In this last phase the patient suffers from delirium and hallucinations, greatly aggravated by outside influences, to which he was formerly indifferent. During this later phase of paroxysmal disturbance, hallucina- tions (zoopsia), paralysis, partial contractures, and epileptic shocks may supervene. Its dura- tion is very uncertain, lasting- hours and fre- quently days. The end of the attack brings with it a feeling- of relief, and the patient re- sumes his normal condition. Accidents are rare, though cases of death have been known, occasioned by respiratory spasms. If the attacks are frequently repeated the condition is more serious, as the case then becomes one of true chronic hysteria (etat de mal hysterie). Such is an attack of hysteria major as de- scribed by the school of La Salpetriere. Some writers deny its existence, and argue that it is merely a type of the disease artificially engendered by the surroundings of hospital life. This opinion is not tenable; the reality of this form of hysteria is only too true, and a consideration of its symptoms furnishes a key to the other more or less developed forms of hysteria which are constantly met with. B. Hysteria minor. — This is the most fre- quent form of hysteria, and it also has three periods. During the pre-con-vulsive phase the prodromal phenomena differ very slightly from those of hysteria major; the ovarian aura, how- ever, is wanting. The initial spasm seizes the hollow of the epigastrium ; and the attack may often be arrested at this crisis. The period of convulsions, after a comparatively short tonic phase, during which one observes the swelling of the neck, the contortion of the face, and suspension of breathing, is followed by more rapid movements, hurried breathing, clenched jaws, and cries of anguish. This period of agitation soon yields to one of emotional atti- tudes, the attacks generally resembling one another. The crisis terminates in the phases of resolution and delirium, during which the patient neither speaks nor moves, and in which fits of crying, singing, or laughing may alter-