HEART, CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF 151 The physical signs produced by defects in the inter-ventricular septum are a matter of great difference of opinion. It is generally believed, however, to produce a loud, harsh, long-con- tinued systolic murmur, which is audible chiefly over the upper third of the proecordia, in front, and also markedly in the inter-scapular region behind, and whicli is not accompanied by any thrill. Many difierences in the physical signs have, however, been described by good observers. Cyanosis may be absent; and there is no ques- tion that very large defects in the inter-ventricu- lar septum inay persist without causing any symptom or physical sign whatever. The prognosis is, on the wliole, less favour- able than in cases of open foramen ovale. The presence of an inter-ventricular communication causes greater interference with the circulation, and leads at an earlier period to cardiac hyper- trophy. Cases have, however, been recorded in which patients with this lesion lived forty and even forty-five years. The danger of the occur- rence of embolism is the same as in cases of patent foramen ovale. Stenosis and Atresia of the Pulmo7iary Artery. —This is probably the commonest congenital malformation of the heart.^ It may be due either to abnormal division of the common truncus arteriosus in the course of development, or to the result of foetal inflammation. The exact situation of the narrowing varies. It may be caused by thickened and adherent valves, or may be situated above the valves. The artery itself may be thickened, or there may be a diminution in size of the conus. The lumen of the vessel may be quite obliterated. It is usually accompanied by patency of the inter- ventricular or inter-auricular openings, or both, and often by an open ductus arteriosus. The symptoms are generally striking. There is usually marked cyanosis, with its accompani- ments. Often the right side of the heart shows distinct evidence of enlargement. The auscul- tatory signs vary considerably. A loud systolic murmur in the second and third left spaces near the sternum, which is propagated into the vessels of the neck, is what is most character- istic. There may, however, be no mvirmur at all. In cases of simple stenosis the pulmonary second sound is faint or absent, but in some cases, where the valves are not implicated and the ductus is widely open, it may even be accentuated. The prognosis in cases of pulmonary stenosis is not good as regards the prospect of long life. In exceptional instances patients have been known to live more than forty years. The great majority, however, die in childhood or as young adults. In cases of atresia the chances of life are considerably less than in According to Peacock, more than four-fifths of tlie children with congenital heart disease who reach twelve years old suft'er from this lesion. those of stenosis. There would seem to be a special tendency for patients with this malfor- mation to suffer from various forms of cerebral disease. It is said, also, that they are peculiarly liable to tuberculosis of the lungs. Transposition or Malposition of the Aorta and Pulmonary Artery. — This is a group of not very common cases which are complicated both as to their anatomical details and their mode of production. The physical signs are also very obscure and equivocal. There is generally marked cyanosis, and systolic murmurs are usually present. These, however, may possibly be referable to the complications which are present. Accord- ing to Hochsinger, the presence of extreme cyanosis, with pure heart sounds and accentua- tion of the second sound at the base of the heart, gives sufficient ground for a diagnosis of this condition in an uncomplicated form. The prognosis in cases of transposition of the large vessels is very bad. In a few instances the patients have survived to adult age, but in the great majority they die within the first six months of extra-uterine life. Stenosis a-nd Atresia of the Aorta.—This is a much less common condition than narrowing of the pulmonary artery. Most forms of it are inconsistent with continued extra-uterine life, and the children survive for a few days at most. The only variety of the malformation which is compatible with longer life, and therefore of clinical interest, is the stenosis or atresia which occurs near the entrance of the ductus arteri- osus. This is situated at the commencement of the descending aorta, either above or below the ductus. The obstruction at this point leads to great dilatation of the aortic behind it and of its branches, and an extensive collateral circula- tion develops. The symptoms in these cases are either slight or quite absent in childhood, so that the condi- tion is not diagnosable. They become, however, steadily more marked in later life. This is largely due to the fact that the constricted portion of the vessel remains about the same size, while the lumen of the rest of it grows with age, so that the effect of the dispropor- tion between the two becomes increasingly felt. Cyanosis is seldom present. The physical signs which are characteristic of this malformation in adult patients are as follows :—(1) Marked hyper- trophy of the left side of the heart; (2) a loud systolic murmur, accompanied by a strong thrill over the manubrium sterni to right of it, and in the jugular fossa, which is also conducted into the vessels of the neck; (3) a visible collateral circulation in the form of superficial, dilated, pulsating arteries, recognisable over the chest and abdomen, in which systolic murmurs may sometimes be heard. The diagnosis may be con- firmed by the occurrence of retardation of the femoral pulse and marked weakness of the