328 HYSTERIA IN CHILDHOOD which the hysterical symptoms closely simulate organic disease, the neuromimesis of Paget. Joint symptoms are perliaps the commonest of these in children. The hip-joint in particular is often affected, and it is sometimes very diffi- cult to differentiate hysterical coxalgia from rheumatic or early tubercular disease of the hip. It may indeed be almost impossible to exclude rheumatism; the hip-joint is one of the favourite sites for rheumatism in childhood, and the objective evidence of articular rheumatism in childhood is often extremely slight; more- over, as already mentioned, hysteria is specially liable to occur in the children of rheumatic families; and, lastly, what began as a slight attack of genuine rheumatism may persist as hysterical coxalgia. Lateral curvature, early spinal caries, and talipes are all simulated by hysteria, but in these, as in the joint cases, the nature of the trouble is often shown by the sudden onset of the symptoms, the diffuse character of the tenderness over the supposed seat of the disease, the variation or disappearance of the symptoms when the child's attention is distracted, the presence of other symptoms of hysteria, and the rapidity of cure by such " moral treatment" as is effectual in hysteria. A very puzzling condition is that which has been called " pseudo - meningitis hysterica." Several instances of this in childhood have been recorded. The following case may serve as a typical instance. A girl aged 9 years had in- fluenza. The temperature was raised to 101° or 102°, but became normal after a few days. From that time she was drowsy, with obstinate constipation, vomited once, and complained of continual headache in the right frontal region ; at one time there was photophobia ; and there was great difficulty in persuading the child to take food. The child was apathetic, scarcely ever spoke unless questioned, and just before the writer saw her the pulse was reported to have fallen to 45, and the respiration had been of the Cheyne-Stokes variety. The child was thin and extremely weak ; she lay curled up on her side, with the face turned away from the light. The heart acted irregularly, the abdomen was much retracted. There was no irritability, the child answered questions readily, there was no stiff- ness of the neck and no affection of cranial nerves, the discs were normal. Meningitis was suspected, but a few days later analgesia appeared below the knees, and on being removed to hospital and treated with electricity the child was well in about ten days. Diagnosis.—For the general diagnosis the reader is referred to the previous article on Hysteria. The diagnosis of hysteria in child- hood must be approached with the utmost wariness. The fact that no obvious cause can be found for aches or pains or other symptoms is not sufficient reason for labelling them hysteria. Where there is any doubt it is safer as a rule to assume that the condition is not hysterical than to risk the serious error of supposing a case of organic disease to be one of hysteria. Hysteria, moreover, is sometimes associated with or started by an organic lesion; hysterical joint affection, for instance, is some- times started by a slight articular rheumatism. The difficulty of diagnosing hysteria in chil- dren is further increased in some cases by the fact that only one symptom is present; the so-called " stigmata " of hysteria are commonly absent. Prognosis. — The immediate prognosis is probably better in children than in adults. It is very rare for hysteria in childhood to resist treatment obstinately as in later years ; and as a rule the symptoms disappear in a few days, or at most in a few weeks, under suitable treat- ment. But the neuropathic tendency remains, and therefore relapses, usually perhaps with some new symptoms, are apt to occur. More- over, a study of severe cases of hysteria in adult life shows that in many such cases there have been symptoms of hysteria in childhood, and on this account the prognosis as to the future must be guarded, for in some cases at least, hysteria in a child is the indication of a strong neuropathic taint, which is likely to show itself in graver manifestations in later life. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—There are few conditions in childhood which call for more experience and tact in management than the early manifestations of the hysterical tendency; and by this is meant not the fully developed hysteria which is commonly recognised as such, but that less-defined group of prodromal symp- toms, noticeable almost from infancy, to which attention has been drawn above. Home life, companions, amusements, education, every de- tail of the child's life, must be carefully super- vised, so as to avoid those harmful influences which have been mentioned already as predis- posing and exciting causes of hysteria. The choice of a nurse is a matter of the utmost importance. To deal with such children success- fully requires more than ordinary tact in the nursery ; they need a nurse who is quiet and firm, who knows when to take notice and when not to take notice, when to sympathise and when not, and, above all, one who never loses her patience. In most cases it is probably wisest to send such a child to school as soon as it is old enough, rather than to have a governess or tutor at home; for the mixing with other children helps to counteract the tendency to become self-centred, which is often noticeable in these children, and, moreover, gives them a wider range of interests. But the conditions of school life must be properly regulated; any- thing like brain-worry—and this is possible at a very early age — must be carefully avoided. The best beginning is undoubtedly the kinder-