537 INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF cient blood to colour it, as occurs in the sac of an acute strangulated hernia. The intestinal wall above the obstruction becomes red, thickened, sodden, and friable, and the first histological alteration apparent in it is an active destruction of the cells lining its mucous membrane, which play so large a part in its protection from septic invasion. Below the obstruction the bowel is pale and contracted. The bacterium coli now becomes exceptionally active, thriving in the stagnatiug intestinal fluids and invading the intestinal walls. The transition from this stage to the final one, if the patient survives the auto- intoxication produced by absorption from his own intestines, and exhaustion resulting from the starvation, pain, and vomiting, is by peri- tonitis, brought about either by the migration of organisms through the distended and damaged intestinal walls, or by the more gross method of perforation through a distension ulcer or gan- grenous patch above the obstruction. In the final stage the only diagnosis possible may be that of peritonitis. Classification No classification is entirely satisfactory. Per- haps the best is one which divides the causes of mechanical obstruction into five classes :— 1. Strangulation of the intestine by bands, accidental rings, internal hernite, adhesions. 2. Defects of position in parts of the intestine, such as intussusception, volvulus, kinks, displace- ment by tumours, etc. 3. Blocking of the lumen by foreign bodies, polypi, hard faecal masses, etc. 4. Strictures, simple and malignant. 5. Paralytic ileus. 1. Strangulation hy Bands, Internal Hernias, Adhesions, etc.—Strangulation by bands appears to have become more common since abdominal section ceased to be a rare operation, for many of these bands resiUt from a preceding peritonitis, and may be caused by the traumatism of opera- tion. In addition to this cause, disease in the appendix or in the pelvic viscera, or tuberculous lesions in the abdomen, are frequent sources of a peritonitis which leaves adhesions to be stretched and thinned into cords or broader bands. Another origin is not imcommon : a tag of omentum adhering in the neighbourhood of a femoral or inguinal hernia in course of time, by a process of stretching and rolling, is con- verted into a cord or band, often of a gTeat length. Such cords or bands produced by any of the causes mentioned may strangle the in- testine in every conceivable way, so much so that no two cases are exactly alike. Adhering at both ends, either to viscera or parietes, and remaining free in the centre, a bridge is formed under which a loop of intestine may slip and be strangled. A long cord may loop itself and become knotted round an intestinal loop, as a piece of string purposely tied round it would. On the other hand, the intestine may wind itself round such a cord, and become strangled by its own act. More than one case has been reported where two bands have been found post mortem, the wrong one having been divided during opera- tion. In addition to the band, it is not infre- quent for a volvulus to be found in the ensnared intestine beyond the band. Many of the well- marked cords are not, however, due to a preced- ing peritonitis, but have a congenital origin fi'om persistent remnants of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. In this connection, too, the Meckel's diverticulum may be noticed. In the human foetus, about the eighth week of intra-uterine life, the vitelline canal normally disappears. If it does not, the connection between the small intestine, usually at the convex surface of the ileum, and not far from the ileo-caecal valve, and the umbilicus, may permanently remain. Then a tubular off-shoot or diverticulum possessed of the same structures as go to form the small in- testine may be found extending from the intestine to the umbilicus. More commonly a portion of this tube is obliterated, and there is found pro- jecting from the intestine a short diverticulum attached by a cord to the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. At times the distal extremity of the diverticulum, or its obliterated representative, is set free and may continue to float, or may con- tract fresh adhesions to any part of the pai'ietes or viscera. Another band pi'oducing precisely similar results may be constituted by the adhesion of normal structures, for example the vermiform appendix, the Fallopian tube, the apjjendices epiploicse, the intestine itself, and its mesentery. Cases also are recorded of intestine strangulated by the long pedicle of an ovarian cyst. The pathological results produced in the in- testine by strangulating bands are of two kinds : —(1) Those limited to the area of intestine strangulated ; and (2) changes in the intestine above. The latter are similar in every instance of acute obstruction, and have already been referred to. The local changes are those pro- duced directly by the constricting agent, causing necrosis from pressure at the site of constriction, and vascular changes in the gut beyond, which tend to produce gangrene of the portion ensnared. An early release of the gut shows a pallid de- pression at the point constricted, the pallor and constriction disappearing in a few minutes after its release. At a later stage the pallid con- striction does not disappear, and section of the intestine shows that the whole thickness of its wall, except the peritoneal coat, has been de- stroyed, the site of the constriction internall\ being marked by ulceration of the mucous and muscular coats. This ulceration is found in tlie entering portion of gut, and at the limit of the distended portion when the constriction is a small tight band, and only a few inches of gut have passed under it, as is generally the case