HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF 219 may seem to be slightly lengthened, and the great trochanter maintains its normal relation to the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; whilst in a fracture there is some shortening, and the trochanter is displaced and no longer rotates round its proper axis. Even these guides, however, are lost in a patient who suffers from osteoarthritis, and an attempt must then be made to establish the diagnosis by means of a skiagraph. The prognosis of a bruised hip is good, but the practitioner should warn an old person or the mother of a delicate child of certain special risks, which will be described immediately. Treatment.—The treatment in the simpler forms consists of a few days' rest in bed, during which the hip may be rubbed with an embroca- tion or may be massaged by a skilful shampooer. When the shock is so great as to make it doubtful whether the injury is a bruise or a fracture the patient must be treated as though he were suffering from an intracapsular fracture. After-effects.—The pain sometimes continues for a long time, and is increased by exercise after a severe bruise upon the outer side of the thigh in the neighbourhood of the great tro- chanter. At first there is no shortening, but the patient limps more as the local pain and dis- comfort diminish, until the injured limb is found to be appreciably shorter than its fellow when the thighs are measured from the anterior superior spines of the ilia to the adductor tubercles. The condition occvirs most often in old people, but it is also met with occasionally in young adults who have apparently been healthy until they met with the accident. The pathology is in dispute, and the condition has been described hitherto under the vague ex- pression " interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur." Mr. Arbuthnot Lane has lately advanced good reasons for assuming it to be a result of severe bruising of the cartilages cover- ing the upper part of the head of the femur and the corresponding portion of the acetabulum. The injured cartilages and the underlying bone become absorbed as a result of the chronic in- flammation thus set up. The head of the femur becomes altered in shape, and the acetabulum becomes deeper and larger in a manner similar to that seen in osteoarthritis. The great tro- chanter seems, therefore, as though it had ap- proached the head of the femur, but in reality the trochanter comes nearer to the rim of the acetabulum because the head of the bone lies deeper in its socket, whilst the length of the neck of the femur remains unaltered. The prognosis is imsatisfactory, especially if the patient is not seen until there is well-marked shortening. The treatment in the early stages consists in keeping the patient in bed, with a weight and extension applied to the injured limb to remove all pressure from the joint, and to prevent, as far as possible, the continued absorption of the bruised cartilage and bone. When the shorten- ing has commenced, the difference in the length of the legs should be accurately adjusted by a thick-soled boot, for the limping tends to increase the absorption. Bursal Enlargeme>;t.s.—Blows on the outer side of the hip, injuries, exposure to cold, and certain occupations, such as tailoring, which involve prolonged sitting in bad attitudes, may lead to pain and swelling over the top of the great trochanter. After a longer or shorter time a well-defined swelling appears in the long axis of the limb. The swelling is limited abruptly by the femoral insertion of the gluteus maximus, and is due to an enlargement of the bursa beneath the aponeurosis of this muscle. If it be left untouched it opens at the outer side of the thigh below the level of the great trochanter. In unhealthy people it oftens suppurates and tracks far and wide, leaving most troublesome sinuses, hwt it is not often associated with any necrosis of the bone even when there has been extensive suppuratioi Treatment.—The treatment consists in laying open the bursa freely—by cutting through the fascia lata parallel to its fil)res—turning ovit its contents, breaking down all bridges of connective tissue, scraping the wall with a flushing scoop, through which a stream of boracic lotion at a temperature of 110° F. is passing, and after- wards suturing the edges of the wound and obtaining luaion by first intention. A drainage- tube may be inserted at the time of the operation if it be removed twenty-four hours later. The bursa sometimes communicates by a narrow channel with a small subcutaneous abscess, forming a " collar-stud " abscess, and it is im- portant in dealing with such an abscess not to overlook the point of communication between the small subcutaneous abscess and the larger one situated beneath the fascia lata. The bursa beneath the ilio-psoas tendon (Fig. 1, lo) may also become enlarged as a result of injury or from infection with syphilis, rheumatism, or gonorrha;a. It forms a smooth and fluctuating swelling, which lies below Poupart's ligament, and may extend downwards as far as the middle of the thigh. The swelling may cause neuralgic pains from pressure upon the nerves, or venous thrombosis from pressure upon the deep veins. The movements at the hip are often hampered, and the limb may become slightly flexed, ab- ducted, and rotated outwards. But it is not difficult to distinguish an enlarged ilio-psoas bursa from hip disease, because there is neither shortening, rigidity, nor tenderness of the joint. The treatment consists in freely incising the bursa after it has been exposed through a skin incision. It is absolutely necessarj- that the wound should heal by first intention. There are other bursaj in the immediate neighbourhood