HERNIA 211 ligament, and fibres of the aponeurosis of the external obHcjue on the other. Kocher's Operation.—Dr. Albert Kocher in- forms me that the operation now practised (May 1900) by Prof. Kocher is carried out as follows :— An incision is made over tlie inguinal canal; the sac is isolated from the cord very carefully as high up as possible, traction being maintained upon the sac in order to pull it down to its farthest extent. A special light forceps then seizes the end of the sac, which is invaginated upon itself (just as one would turn the finger of a glove inside out), and brought up, about 1 cm. above and outside the internal abdominal ring. An incision of \ cm. is made through the external oblique aponeurosis down to the point of the forceps, which is thrust through the small wound. The sac, still inverted, is pulled out as far as possible. A silk ligature is passed round the neck of the sac and the sac removed beyond the ligature. The stump of the sac is pushed back through the opening in the fascia. The ligature surrounding the neck of the sac is left long, and with it the edges of the little wound in the aponeurosis (including the cut edges of the parietal peritoneum there) are stitched together. Finally some six or eight sutures are passed through the anterior wall of the canal to strengthen it, and so make the outer ring smaller. For the buried sutures many materials have been recommended. Halsted uses silver-wire and is eminently satisfied with it. Bassini, since 1892, has abandoned the use of silk, and now employs chromicised catgut. Silk, silk- worm gut, kangaroo tendon and chromicised catgut are those in general use. Silk has the great disadvantage that, if the wound becomes septic, the silk will be readily infected, and thereby give rise to a persisting sinus. Silk- worm gut is open to the same objection, but in practice I have had very little trouble with it. Kangaroo tendon and chromicised catgut both remain unabsorbed for several weeks, and prob- ably in that time the deep union of the wound is sound and complete. Marcy and Bull and Coley use and advise kangaroo tendon. After trying impartially all these forms of suture I now use nothing but silkworm gut. In all operations for the radical cure of hernia a point of chiefest importance is the securing of perfect primary union. In no other operation is this so essential. Recurrence of the hernia is proportionately very much more frequent in cases that have suppurated than in those where primary imion has been secured. 2. Femoral.—The radical cure of a femoral hernia is generally ver}'^ much more satisfactory in its result than is the case with any other variety of rupture. The operative procedure is very similar to that employed in cases of inguinal hernia, so far as the earlier steps of the operation are con- cerned. A vertical or transverse incision is made, the sac exposed, stripped and opened. The viscera are replaced or omentum removed, Fig. 17.—Halsi'd's opemtion. Sliowing the division of the internal oblique, the transplantation of the cord, and the method of introdnciny the stitches. (Bloodgood.) the sac ligatured as high as possible and re- moved. For the closure of the canal and ring two methods are in general use :— A. Bassini's Method.—With a curved needle a series of sutures are introduced uniting the fascia covering the pectineus muscle with the inner end of Poupart's ligament, above and internally, and with the falciform process of Burns externally. All the sutures (five or six are generally used) are passed and are then tied from above downwards. B. Lockwood's Method. — A special curved needle armed with silk is used, whose point is guided up the femoral canal until it rests against the inside of the linea ilio-pectinea, opposite the outer edge of Gimbernat's liga- ment. The needle is then rotated so that its point scrapes over the linea ilio-pectinea and picks up Cooper's ligament. Finally the point emerges through the upper part of the pectineal fascia, where it is unthreaded and withdrawn, leaving the suture beneath Cooper's ligament. Additional sutures are passed in exactly the same way, but each a little farther outwards, until the last lies at tlie inner edge of the common femoral vein. Two or three sutures genei-ally suffice, but more may be necessary. The next step is to again thread the upper end of each ligature in turn through the herniotonty needle, and by pushing the point of the needle half-way up the femoral canal and rotating it forwards pass the thread from within outwards through Hey's ligament, close to its junction witli Poupart's ligament. On tying these