320 HYSTERIA intoxication or infection, must be regarded as hysteria. If during infancy hysteria is rare, it becomes more common as the years go on, and clothes itself in very curious forms. " Who has not seen," says Grancher, " the little ones of four or five years playing with their dolls, and already showing in their shining eyes, their caressing and feline attitudes, their coquetry, and their malice, a neuropathic tendency only requiring opportunity to develop ?" From the ages of eight to nineteen years, the disease may develop with most astounding symptoms, but is of shorter duration than in adults ; as Charcot says, " Hysteria has no hold on a child." In grave cases infantile hysteria is monosympto- matic. The most frequently observed pheno- mena are vertigo, cephalalgia, stammering, fits of yawning, digestive disorders of a gastric nature, polyuria, and astasia-abasia. Trophic troubles such as oedema are not uncommon. Ocular disorders, save the narrowing of the field of vision, are seldom met with; hyper- sesthesia governs to the exclusion of anaesthesia. Coxalgia, the malady of Pott, and hysterical torticollis, are habitual manifestations of this hypersensibility. In a less advanced degree hysteria expresses itself by cerebral irritation, dreaming, nightmares, and hallucinations ; there are also digestive troubles, vaso-motor troubles, and special psychic conditions. Hysterical children are precocious, specially with regard to the arts; their alfectivities are active, but change- able, the slightest impression produces intense reactions, either joy or grief. Such children have tendencies to lie and dissimulate, their extraordinary statements should seldom be believed, and they often give false witness in courts of justice. Many suffer from mania, are habitually melancholy, and may commit suicide with little or no reason. A commencing hysteria produces the greatest number of cases of simu- lated organic disease. Hysteria can imitate hooping-cough, enteritis, and meningitis; certain cerebral disorders such as infantile spasmodic hemiplegia, certain medullary affections such as spinal paralysis, nervous disorders such as epilepsy, and organic disorders such as inter- mittent fever. It is especially in children that neurosis is best simulated. In its mildest form infantile hysteria only appears in psychic phenomena. Children often have pallakinia, tenacious prurigo, and nettle-rash; they sleep badly or lethargically, start and tremble at the slightest noise, and are frightened of the dark- ness. Their dispositions are flighty, imgoverned, passionate; they are jealous of their brothers and sisters, have ideas unsuited to their age, excessive sympathies and antipathies. They eat badly, are thin, with hollow eyes, and present often attacks of meningism. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of hysteria depends on the presence of stigmata; these should be sought with great care, especially in mono- symptomatic hysteria. Should they be want- ing, the special circumstances causing the accidents and the antecedents of the patient will be of the greatest value in the diagnosis. The possibility of an organic lesion has to be carefully considered. It is impossible to show here the differential diagnosis of hysteria and all the disorders it may simulate; we shall limit ourselves to indicating in the following table the differences between hysteria and epilepsy, the malady most often confounded with it:— Epilepsy It shows itself diu-ing the first fifteen years of life. Generally there have been infantile convul- The fits follow night or morning ; the patient falls without any pre- vious warning, in con- sequence there are scars on the face and skull of an epileptic. The beginning of the fit is marked by an initial scream. During the fit it is seldom necessary to hold tlie patient energetically, his movements are not prolonged. The loss of consciousness is absolute. The patient cannot possibly speak. Emotional attitudes not exist. do The delirium after the convulsions is unreason- ing and impulsive. At the crisis of the attack the tongue is bitten, there is involuntary defecation and mictu- rition. The general health is de- ranged by these fits, and the condition is grave and feverish. After the fit, torpor, sleepi- ness, curvature. From a clinical point of view, one finds after the fit a rise in tlie rate of the fixed resi- duum of the urea, clilorine, sulphates, and phosphates, without in- version of the formula of the latter. No hysterical stigmata, no permanent narrow- ing of the field of vision. Bromides have a thera- peutic action most un- deniably. Hysteria Although sometimes exist- ing inchildhood, it often- est appears at the time of puberty, and during the first portion of the adult life. The attack follows the fall, and is preceded by an aura. The patient is aware of the attack, and does not injure himself. There is no initial scream. The cries come on at a more advanced stage. The patient's movements are so violent and pro- longed that it is often necessary for several people to hold the patient. The patient utters excla- mations, and sometimes pronounces sentences. The consciousness comes back during the phase of violent movements. Emotional attitudes exist, as if the patient were acting in a dream. The delirium is rational, and can be directed by speaking to the patient. There is no injury to the tongue, and no involun- tary defecation or mic- turition. The frequency of the at- tacks do not aff'ect the general health. The temperature is normal. The attack ended, the patient shows no mor- bid phenomena. From a clinical point of view one finds a lower- ing of the rate of tlie fixed residuum of the lu'ea, chlorine, sul- phates, phosphates, with inversion of the formula of the latter. Besides the attack, there are stigmata and per- manent narrowing of the field of vision. The action of bromides is nil, or inferior to what they are in epilepsy.