INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF 457 tive reactive mechanism, such as simple loss of mnemonic records, psychical blindness, aphasias, certain obsessive ideas, pseudo - hallucinations, and permanent changes in character. Reference must also be made to the occurrence of toxic lesions in the nervous centres during intra-uterine life. These may be of all degrees of severity; their consequences may be early manifested in the form of infantile cerebro- pathies accompanied by idiocy, imbecility, and often epilepsy. It is probable that many other manifestations of defective cerebral develop- ment have a similar origin, including most cases of epilepsy that ar-ise in adult life. Cerebral vascular lesions and the gross lesions that result from them are essentially toxsemic in origin; changes in the neuroglia and membranes of the brain are chiefly secondary to toxic conditions that have affected the nervous tissues. When the factors and processes concerned in the development of insanity are examined from the standpoint of general pathology, it becomes evident that the inimical forces against which the individual is constantly or occasionally called upon to defend himself are by far the most important causes of insanity, and that among these forces toxic, and especially in- fective, agents play the largest role. They produce insanity by altering the structure of the reactive mechanism that constitutes the physical basis of mind. That one person more readily becomes insane than another under similar con- ditions, is due partly to differences in the cerebral tissues, but probably in still greater measure to differences that concern the whole organisation of the individual. It will be seen that vmder the view of the pathology of insanity that is here taken we are concerned not only with the brain as a reactive mechanism, but also within the internal and external stimuli to which it reacts. Lastly, it may be added that in the various forms of in- sanity, as in other kinds of disease, there are, from the standpoint of pathology, three possible objectives of treatment, namely—(1) to suspend or arrest the action of inimical forces; (2) to restore, as far as may be possible, to a normal condition reactive mechanisms damaged by patho- logical processes or originally anomalous ; and (3) to adapt the environment to defective reactive mechanisms in cases in which these cannot be restored to a normal condition. B. Pathological Anatomy The Scalp.—Morbid adhesion of the epicranial aponeurosis to the pericranium is present in about 50 per cent of persons dying insane. An extreme degree of this adhesion, such as to render detachment of the scalp impossible except by dissection, occurs in over 10 per cent of cases. The condition is most common in general paralysis and in epilepsy. In a large majority of instances it is associated with either thickening or condensation of the bones of the skull. " Hypertrophy of the scalp" is a rare abnormality which appears to have been observed, at least in a well-marked form, only in the mentally defective, and in the majority of instances in genetous idiots. It consists in an abnormally redundant, thick, lax, and mobile condition of the integument of the upper and posterior parts of the head, which at the same time presents a number of roughly symmetrical, generally antero-posterior and transverse furrows and ridges. Hasmatoma auris, which is exceedingly common in the insane and comparatively very rare in other persons, is described in vol. iv. p. 18. The Sknll.—Morbid conditions of the skull consist of two distinct classes, namely (1) variations in form and size overstepping the limits of the typical or normal, and (2) changes in the structure of the bone, evidenced by abnormalities in thickness, consistence, and histological characters. The skulls of the insane in this country have not yet been sufficiently studied by strict craniological methods to allow of precise state- ments being made regarding the special morphological features that they exhibit. Only a few of the more distinct abnormalities that have been observed need be mentioned here. The microcephalic skull, which exhibits a characteristic form as well as an abnormally small size, has, according to the observations of Sir George Humphry, ^ an average circumference of 16-7 inches. This authority has described its chief characters as follows:—"The brain- case is small or contracted in all its dimensions, in the base as well, though less than in the vault; and it is most so in the fore part, the frontal bone being sloped back and narrow, with deep temporal fossae behind the external angular processes, and with curved orbital plates, which narrow the ethmoidal fossas. The parts in the interior are contracted and often thickened." The macrocephalic or hydrocephalic skull has its greatest circumference above the glabella and occipital point. The authority just quoted has described its chief characters as follows :— "The brain-case is expanded in all directions, to some extent in the base, but much less than in the vault. The forehead bulges forwards, beetling over the face; the orbital plates are in the young flattened and pressed down, and the superciliary ridges are elevated and depressed. The temporal fossaj are shallowed, and the occipital condyles are not prominent." - Although asymmetry of the cranium is not necessarily an indication of an abnormal brain, high degrees and certain special forms of it are 1 Journ. Anat. and Physiol, vol. xxix. 1895, p. 307. ^ Journ. Anat. and Physiol., loc. cit.