HYPNOTISM 304 them in previous illnesses. At that time hyp- notism was not discussed in the public press, and the patients had not been frightened with absurd stories as to its dangers. Many of the patients were healthy persons hypnotised for operative purposes, while the percentage of cases of long-standing nervous disease was small. In the first 100 cases, drawn from other sources, the failures reached 22 per cent. Here, most of the patients suffered from serious and long-standing nervous disease. All were strangers to me, while the majority had heard that hypnotism was dangerous and inevitably associated with loss of consciousness and volition. Remarks on Methods and the Management OF THE Hypnotic State Some further hints, as to the induction of hypnosis and the management of the hypnotic state, may be useful to those about to practise hypnotism. 1. Do not attempt to hypnotise your patient at the first interview. Hear his history ; form your diagnosis, and make friends with him. Then tell him that what you propose doing involves neither interference with volition nor possibility of harm. Explain that he will have to rest quietly, with his mind fixed on some monotonous idea, while you make suggestions, and that these, when given under specific cir- cumstances, tend to arouse powei's which are latent in his own brain, and which may be used for his benefit. Above all, emphasise the fact that only a very small proportion of those who are cured pass into a condition in any way re- sembling sleep. 2. At the next visit, place the patient in a comfortable chair and darken the room. Then, after making him gaze fixedly upwards for a few seconds, tell him to close his eyes, and to keep them voluntarily shut until you request him to open them. Meanwhile, verbally suggest that he shall pass into a more restful and drowsy state each time he visits you, and lose all his morbid symptoms. The latter suggestions must be varied according to the nature of the case; you must also explain to the patient that they are not likely to be realised at once, and that frequent repetitions are often necessary. Sometimes patients are easily hypnotised at the first attempt, and respond at once to curative suggestions. With the majority, however, the length of treatment required bears some pro- portion to the duration of the disease and the mental instability of the patient, and I have sometimes only succeeded in inducing hypnosis after a hundred failures. Curative suggestions, repeated in a more or less varied form, are usually given for ten minutes to half an hour at a time. According to Wetterstrand, however, too much importance has been attached to suggestion, while the health-giving action of hypnotic sleep has not been sufficiently recognised. He records many cases of hysteria, epilepsy, morphinomania, etc., where the patients were kept in the hypnotic state for a month or more. Nurses, put en ra2:iport with them, fed them at stated intervals, while the action of the bladder and bowels was regulated by suggestion. The results were ex- tremely satisfactory, and no untoward symptoms of any kind occurred. This method is only applicable to cases of deep hypnosis and somnambulism ; fortunately, however, the majority of subjects respond to curative suggestions as soon as the slightest hypnosis has been induced, and thus Wetter- strand's method of prolonged sleep is rarely necessary. In some instances, however, it suc- ceeds when ordinary hypnotic methods have failed. Thus, one of my patients, who had suffered from insomnia, spinal neuralgia, dysme- norrhcea, and menorrhagia, was cured of the three former conditions by suggestion. The fourth was unrelieved, and the patient had to remain in bed a full week out of each month. She was kept in the hypnotic trance for three days before a period, and then for five during it, while frequent suggestions were given. Since then the interval, duration of the period, and amount of loss, have become normal, and the patient, instead of remaining in bed, can now take active exercise without inconvenience. Hypnotic Theories First, to summarise the phenomena requiring explanation : The somnambule recalls the events of normal as well as of hypnotic life, but, when hypnosis is terminated,- remembers those of ordinary life alone. Further, he can influence and control his own mind and body to an extent undreamt of by the waking will. Finally, there is no impairment of consciousness or volition, nor, in proper hands, the slightest danger. In slight hypnosis memory is unchanged, but an increased power of controlling the organism always exists. {a) TIte Mesmeric Theory.—According to the mesmerists, the phenomena were due to a vital fluid or physical force, which was transmitted from operator to subject. This force also existed in certain metals, crystals, and magnets, but all were not influenced by it; those who could be were termed "sensitives." (6) Braid's Theories.—The subjective nature of the phenomena—the fact that they were due to changes in the patient's own brain—was the essential part of all Braid's theories. On other points, his views changed with increased know- ledge. At one time, he attributed everything to an involuntary monoideism ; this view was published by John Hughes Bennett in 1851. Here, the phenomena were explained physio- logically by the arrested action of some of the " fibres of association." Psychologically by dominant ideas; these had obtained undue