464 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS and the consequent revival of irrelevant activities. These things must be borne in mind as we try to interpret the facts of biology, as well as the facts of experience. Of the consciousness of the lower animals we can say very little that will be generally accept- able. For the beginning of organic reflexes we must go right down to the most primitive organisms, whose nervous function apparently is entirely alimentary. Their nerves respond only to food ; their movements are concerned with the appropriation and with the disposal of it. At first there is no perception of food as distinct from rubbish, and we may question if even fairly advanced organisms perceive their surroundings. At such a level we can learn but little, except to remember that there was a time when animal consciousness, if it may be called so, was directly, particularly, and wholly visceral. And this visceral sensitiveness extended, we may suppose, to the respiratory organs when they appeared, to the cardiac, to the reproductive, and to the others in turn. Of such beings it seems mistaken to speak as if they had a personality, for that word implies a conception of oneself in relation to other things; and these creatures are probably not conscious of themselves, but only of parts of themselves. But we may speak of them as having a character—a visceral character. Right up the line to mammals the fact is in general apparent that the nervous system in certain cases, and presumably con- sciousness, have reference primarily to what is happening within the organism in all its parts —-a particular subject-consciousness; and the first outward reference which the organisation seems to have is towards things which have an almost purely nutritional purpose. This pre- ponderance of internal consciousness is carried up even into the big mammalia, is especially notable in some of the domesticated varieties, and in my belief characterises in considerable degree even some human individuals. It is probably an error in interpretation of a cow's movements, for example, or of a sheep's, or of a pig's, to imply any great perception of the environ- ment. The history as well as the anatomy of the herbivora suggests that the feeling of the animal is still very largely visceral. The character of these animals can best be described as still nutritional, with the addition of more or less acute phases of sexuality. Attention to stimuli arriving by the special senses is but an interrup- tion of a consciousness which is still chiefly de- termined by internal stimuli. And to such a mode of consciousness, with its characteristic over-attention to the bodily states, insane patients are often reduced. Indeed, we are familiar with it in the hypochondriac. But its most obvious revival is in visceral melancholia and in delusions of persecution which refer to bodily symptoms. In relation to defence and off"ence, especially in the carnivora, the rare development of special sense—eyes, ears, and nose always on the qui vive—betokens a range and activity of object- consciousness, which of course has developed gradually, but which now for the first time is of the most obvious importance. It would be more true, for example, to speak of the character of the fox, the hysena, the leopard, as predatory or fugitive, offensive or defensive, rather than as visceral. We may regard their consciousness as the converse of the visceral — a habitual attention to the environment, of which internal stimuli are an interruption. That preponderance of outward relation has of course persisted ; and there are individuals in whom it is notable— persons who are uncomfortably aware of the smells, the sights, and the sounds of their neigh- bourhood ; or who, without discomfort, are always noticing things. And of either kind of consciousness we have to note how little the attention really grasps of all the things which the brain carries. Every creature has its mode of consciousness, which largely determines the range of its attention, and all its other nervous processes are subconscious. It is, however, in the social functions of animals—whether merely as a family, or in a flock, or school, or herd—that we begin to have a suggestion of an evolution suitable for the development of personality. Still capable of much visceral sensation, still wide awake to environment in general, the attention of animals in a family or flock has, for the first time, an opportunity of relating to systematic activities. Now becomes manifest the domestic conscious- ness, with all that entails of attention to each other, and upon which the whole fabric of social feelings is based. In such conditions also arrives that kind of object-ward attention which is an advance upon the merely predatory or fugitive, which relates to the environment as amenable to work—the construction and care and fortifica- tion of the home, the colony, the city. In this is the beginning of the pre-eminently human faculty, one which, not content with the world as we find it, proceeds to a reconstruction of it. The prime chai'acter of early man — so that Carlyle distinguishes him as tool-using—is his constructive faculty. In the evolution of these activities which regard the world as a place to be made fit for human habitation is the begin- ning of all that phase of the mind whicli we may speak of as purposive. Organisation, providence, ambition, ideality, became possible only as men regarded the world as a place to be taken in hand—-different from the point of view of the self- regarding beast, which takes things as it finds them, except when it destroys them. This con- structive mode of consciousness is of course still characteristic of our race—so much so that every generation sees a new face upon the world, an evolution of the environment to which the indi- vidual must be educated. And, in insanity, when