533 INTESTINES, DISEASES OF Malignant Disease of the Intestine.— Malignant growths of the intestines differ but slightly from malignant disease of other parts, in so far as the characteristics of the growths are concerned, but when a hollow tube is attacked the potency of every part of which is recognised as important, and when the depen- dence of health on a vigorous digestive appa- ratus is remembered, the special importance of this subject will be admitted. Site.—Of 1148 cases collected by Ewald— 874 occurred in the rectum. 148 occurred in the large intestine (of these twelve occurred in the transverse colon). 64 in the Ccscum, including the appen- dix. 26 in the ileum. 19 in the duodenum. 17 in the jejuni;m. In the above Table, cancer of the small intestine (duodenum, jejunum and ileum), as compared with the large intestine (ccBCum, appendix, colon, sigmoid flexure and rectum), occurs in the proportion of 1 to 17|. It will thus be seen that the large intestine is much more frequently affected than the small, and that the jejunum is the portion least likely to be involved. Statistics of other authors show the jejunum to be more rarely involved than the above. It is a noteworthy fact that where the intestinal contents stagnate longest (rectum), or pass through a part with diminished calibre, or where two differing surfaces adjoin (ileo-csecal valve and pylorus), there cancer is most frequently found. Pathological Anatomy. — Carcinoma of the intestine may be primary or secondary. Prim- ary is far more common than secondary cancer, which, indeed, is rare, and occurs either by metastasis, or by extension from neighbouring- organs (pancreas, uterus, stomach, etc.), and being but a complication of pre-existing disease, requires no special mention here. Primary cancer of the intestine occurs as cylindrical- celled epithelioma, )nore rarely as a spheroidal- celled growth. Either of these forms may undergo colloid degeneration and produce a third variety known as colloid cancer. Cancer of the intestine begins as a small deposit in the mucous membrane, usually in Lieberkiihn's glands. As it increases in size it spreads in such a manner as to present itself in three distinct aspects, namely :— 1. As a nodule, which, expanding equally in all directions, becomes a more or less rounded tumour, the intestinal surface of which is apt, from irritation of the intestinal contents and bacterial invasion, to become ulcerated and assume a polypoid outline. 2. The growth may spread laterally rather than towards the lumen of the bowel, and assume the form of a plaque or raised flattened mass on one side only of the intestinal wall, with well-marked edges, and often ulcerated centre. 3. Most commonly extension takes place in an annular manner, so that the intestine is surrounded by a ring of cancerous deposit often of small longitudinal depth. This variety is the commonest cause of malignant stricture. It occurs most frequently in the large intestine, and is a frequent cause of intestinal obstruction. In the later stages ulceration at the site of growth, dilatation of the bowel above the stricture, ulceration at or above the stricture, and probably haemorrhage, mark the subsequent course. Extension early takes place to lym- phatic glands, and secondary deposits occur usually in the liver, and other neighbouring abdominal organs, the peritoneum becoming invaded by direct extension; or ulceration and perforation may occur into the bladder, stomach, and other parts of the intestine, or into the peritoneum, generally or becomes localised by adhesions. In some cases of annular stricture gangrene of the cancerous deposit is apt to occur. The author has seen a case of annular stricture of the sigmoid which caused intestinal obstruction, necessitating colotomy. The case ended fatally by peritonitis, due to gangrene of the annular stricture with subsequent per- foration. The stricture was so insignificant in size that it was impossible to say definitely without microscopic investigation, and the corroborative and extensive secondary deposit in the liver, that it was a malignant one. A few special points are noteworthy in cancer of the duodenum, which is usually columnar - celled, but may be spheroidal - celled. The growth begins in the mucous mem- brane, or possibly in Brunner's glands, though the latter origin is doubtful. A malignant growth of the head of the pancreas and of the lower end of the bile and pancreatic ducts or the biliary ampulla is an extra-duodenal growth, in which the duodenal mucous membrane is not, until the last stage, and may not be at all, involved. Any part of the duodenum may be the site of primary cancerous growth, but it is important to distinguish from a clinical point of view whether the original site is above or below the biliary papilla. Malignant growths of the duodenum, as elsewhere in the intestine, have a tendency to pi'oduce annular stricture resulting in dilatation of the duodenum and stomach behind the stricture, and the symptoms simulate those of pyloric stricture. Sy)iiptoim. — The presence of a malignant growth in the intestine may be revealed in a variety of ways, but a diagnosis in the ea.-ly stages is rarely possible. The initial subjective and objective symptoms seldom occur until the growth has existed for some time. It may happen that acute intestinal obstruction will be the first sign to arouse suspicion, a condition of affairs explicable, and caused by the sudden