BLOCK 148 HEAET infiltration, and loss of striation of the fibres. The vagus and heart muscle have been found healthy. Hea.rtbuni. See Isbigestion {Si/mj'toms, bensory, Cardialgia); Pregnancy, Affections AND Complications {Digestive); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptom- atology, Ilearthum). Heart, Congenital Malforma- tions of. Classification . . • • .148 Etiology 148 Clinical Phenomena . . . .149 Some Forms op Cardiac Malformation 150 Dextrocardia . . - . .152 Ectopia Cordis, etc 152 Diagnosis 152 Prognosis . . . . • .153 Treatment 153 In commencing the subject of congenital mal- formations of the heart we cannot do better than begin with a classification of its various forms taken from Professor Vierordt's admirable monograph. This list gives some idea of the complexity of the subject and of the extra- ordinary multiplicity of forms which congenital defect of the heart may assume. In estimating this we must further bear in mind that it is much commoner to find several malformations combined in one heart than to meet with one only, and that in the case of patients wlio have attained adult age there are apt to be further complications as the result of post-natal endo- carditis having attacked the abnormal parts. Vierordt's classification is as follows:— 1. Patent foramen ovale, uncomplicated de- fects of the inter-auriciilar septum. 2. Uncomplicated defects of the inter-ven- tricular septum. 3. (tt) Primary inflammatory stenosis of the ostium and conns of the pulmonary artery with- out malformation (with patent foramen ovale). (6) Stenosis and atresia of the pulmonary artery. (1) Without septal defect and transposition of the vessels. (2) With septal defect and transposition of the vessels. 4. Transposition of tiic large arterial trunks (with various complications). 5. Dilatation of the pulmonary artery. 6. Persistence of the truncus arteriosus (in- cluding cases of direct communication between the aorta and pulmonary artery). 7. Congenital stenosis and atresia of the commencement of the aorta (conus and ostium). (a) From arrest of development, (i) From fa^tal endocarditis. 8. Congenital abnormalities of the semilunar valves. 9. Stenosis of the aorta near the entrance of the ductus arteriosus, persistent isthmus aortte. 10. Congenital narrowness of the aortic system. 11. Patency (uncomplicated) of the ductus arteriosus. 12. Primary defects at the right auriculo- ventricular opening—• (a) Developmental. (i) From foetal endocarditis. 13. Primary defects of the left auriculo- ventricular opening— (rt) Developmental. {Ij) From foetal endocarditis. 14. Misplacements of the heart. 15. Malformation of the pericardium. Causation.—The lesions of congenital heart disease may be divided into three groups accord- ing to their causation. (1) In some cases the abnormalities in the heart are evidently of such a nature that they must have resulted from intra-uterine endo- carditis. When this disease occurs in foetal life it may be of the warty variety, especially when it affects the semilunar valves of the arterial openings. In the great majority of cases, however, it assumes the sclerotic form, and leaves behind it an opaque wiiite or buff" yellow thickening of the endocardium. It may cause contraction of one or more of the cavities or of the valvular openings, or shrinking or adhesion of the valves themselves. The con- dition occurs more frequently on the right than on the left side of the heart. (2) In many cases, part or the whole of the lesion consists in persistence of openings in the inter-ventricular or inter-auricular septa or of the ductus arteriosus. Abnormal patency of any of these structures is referable to obstruc- tion to the course of the circulation occurring at a period earlier than that of their natural closure. This obstruction may exist in the lungs or in the course of the pulmonary artery, in the right ventricle or at the tricuspid aper- ture ; and it may equally well be situated on the left side of the heart either at the mitral or aortic orifice. The presence of a patent inter- ventricular opening indicates an earlier date for the commencement of this obstruction than an open foramen ovale or ductus arteriosus only. Sometimes on examining the heart and lungs no lesion can be found which could have caused any obstruction to the circulation; in such cases it is probable that the block has been of a temporary nature and has disappeared. (3) The remainder of the cases, which can- not be grouped in one or other of these categories, present other imperfections of de- velopment which show no trace of being due to inflammatory action. Such are transposition of the large arterial trunks, congenital abnor- malities of the semilunar valves, absence of the pericardium, etc. The causation of these arrests or perversions of development is in