INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF 455 severe as to produce shock, and in this case is equivalent to traumatism. When insanity arises as a more remote consequence it is de- pendent upon a general toxtemia induced by emotional disturbance, which causes disorder of the functional action of various non-nervous organs. Insanity arising from excessive stimu- lation of the associative centres, or mental over-strain, is also essentially dependent upon general toxtemia similarly induced. The evi- dence of experimental physiology goes to show that nerve tissues are inexhaustible, and that therefore the action of over-exertion in produc- ing insanity is not a direct one. It is probable that in most cases in which nervous over-strain and aiTective disturbances are followed by insanity, some other toxic condition, or some defect in the reactive mechanism, is already present, without which the cause to which the insanity is usually attributed would not have produced it. Simple sensory disturbances, if very intense or unusual, such as severe neuralgia affecting the fifth nerve and the irritation pro- duced by intestinal worms, may occasionally cause psychopathic disturbances. Lesions of the special sense organs, by rendering corre- spondence with the environment defective, may cause insanity. As a rule, however, a compensa- tory action on the part of other sense organs is displayed and the effects of the lesion are more or less completely nullified. A special lesion of the sensory centres is, according to the hypothesis of Tanzi, which seems to be in agreement with the available evidence, the cause of most forms of true hallucination. According to this hypothesis, an halhicination has its origin in a representational centre from which a stimulus (and idea or symbol) passes back to the sensorial centre, where it assumes the aspect of a sensation and is mistaken for a real sensation. The fault consists in a morbid permeability to stimuli on the part of certain afferent fibres which normally probably control the process of attention. Disturbances or lesions affecting the somsesthetic centres may seriously modify the emotional tone, giving rise in some instances to euphoria, in others to severe mental depression. In the production of the mental reactions, ideational stimuli are of paramount importance, and therefore it might seem that abnormal ideational stimuli should be included here; but such ideational stimuli are themselves evidence of reaction induced by other stimuli, and the reaction is one that takes place in the psychical centres. Abnormal ideational stimuli are there- fore dependent upon defect of the reactive mechanism. It must be evident that abnormal external stimuli, acting apart from other moi'bid con- ditions, can have only an insignificant share in the causation of insanity. In the vast majority of cases it is therefore the reactive mechanism that is at fault. We have then to inquire in what ways the reactive mechanism constituted by the associative centres may become so ab- normal as to determine insanity. As in the case of all other organs the psychical centres are the product of heredity and environment, and as their structure varies so will their re- activity vary. There is first the possibility of the occurrence of genetic variation of such a nature as to result in the development of associative centres so anomalous that their reactive manifestations are regarded as insane actions. Such an occur- rence is probably not so common as is sometimes supposed, for it is certainly closely simulated in its effects by another essentially different con- dition, namely, unsuitability of the blending of two ancesti-al lines, intensified often by the operation of the law of exclusive inheritance. In compensation for such occasional disastrous results of genetic variation or of germinal varia- tion, there are converse cases in which either genetic variation or the fortunate combination of two ancestral lines produces an individual of far above ordinary capacity for intellectual de- velopment. We are concerned here, however, only with the unfortunate deviations of these kinds from the normal lines; they probably account for most cases of paranoia, certain forms of idiocy and imbecility, some cases of moral insanity, some of the obsessive psychoses and certain forms of hysteria. Genetic varia- tion may also affect non-nervous organs, which consequently manifest imperfect adaptation to environment, and so give rise to disorders of metabolism which are responsible for the for- mation of toxic substances which may injure the nervous tissues and so affect their reactivity. There seem now to be grounds for the belief that proneness to the development of certain forms of insanity depends not upon any inherent cerebral defect as is so commonly assumed, but upon a special tendency to the development of certain disorders of metabolism or to chronic infections by organisms that are ordinarily only saprophytic. In this category there are prob- ably to be placed the whole group of the affective psychoses and also dementia prjecox. In the building up of the associative reactive mechanism, the powerful influence exercised by education must not be forgotten. Defective or vicious education, to be included in which is the moral influence of a bad environment such as that which is to be found in the slums of our large cities, is probably to an important extent responsible for cases of alcoholism, criminality, and moral insanity. Traumatism and its consequences occupy a considerable place as a cause of morbid altera- tion in the associative reactive mechanism. Head traumatism occurring at birth is probably a far more common cause of imbecility and epilepsy than is generally believed. Similar injuries occurring at later periods of life, as well