HYDROSTATIC TEST 282 Hydrostatic Test. See Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide, Proof of Live Birth). Hydrotherapy. See Balneology; Hydropathy ; Hysteria {Treatment); Mineral Waters ; Tabes Dorsalis {Treatment, Hydro- therapy). Hyd roth ionaemia.—The presence of sulphuretted liydrogen or sulphide of ammonium in the blood, due to pei-foration of the bowel, etc., and causing serious toxic symptoms (ver- tigo, collapse, etc.). See Unconsciousness {Auto-intoxications). Hydrothionuria. — The presence of sulphuretted hydrogen in the urine from bacterial decomposition. See Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Sulphur, Hydrothionuria); Urine, Bacteria in {Hydrothionuria). Hyd rot ho rax.—The presence of serous fluid (non-inflammatory) in one or both pleural cavities. See Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Symptomatology, Dropsy); Labour, Prolonged, Faults in the Passenger {Diseases of the Child, Hydrothorax); Pleura, Diseases of {Hydrothorax). Hydrotympanum.—Presence of fluid (serous or mucous) in the tympanic cavity. Hydro ■ ureter. See Uterus, Non- Malignant Tumours of {Pressure Symptoms of Fibroids). Hydroxy I.—The radicle OH ; water less one atom of hydrogen ; it enters into the forma- tion of alcohols, phenols, etc. See Physiology, Appendix {Organic Chemistry). HydrOXylamine.—Ammonia in which one atom of hydrogen is displaced by hydroxyl (NH.jOH); it has been used medically as an external application in some skin diseases {e.g. lupus). Hy%res. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Hygiama.—A food said to consist of condensed milk, with (fatless) cocoa and cereals added to it; it is recommended for infant and invalid feeding. Hygiene.—Public Health. See Abattoirs; Air, Examination op ; Air-borne Diseases ; Anthrax ; Canal Boats ; Cattle ; Disinfec- tion ; Epidemiology ; Food ; Hospitals ; In- fection ; Meteorology ; Milk ; Pregnancy {Management); Quarantine ; Rabies ; Sewage and Draina(;b ; Trades, Dangerous ; Venti- lation and Warming ; Vital Statistics ; Water. Hygroma. See Broad Ligament, Diseases of {2'umours of the Mesosalpinx, Sub- serous Hygromas) ; Burs/E, Injuries and Diseases of {Bursitis, Acute and Chronic Hy- groma) ; Neck, Region of {Cysts, Hygroma of the Neck); Orbit, Diseases of the {Cysts, Hygromata). Hygrometer. See Air, Examination of {Moisture); Meteorology {Humidity, Hy- grometry). Hygrophila. — The herb known as Hygrophila spinosa or asteracantha has been used as a diuretic in dropsy and as a urinary sedative ; there is a Decoctum Hygrophiloe which may be given in doses of | to 2 fl. oz.; it is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Phai'macopoeia of 1898. Hymen. ^See Generation, Female Organs OF {External Organs); Medicine, Forensic {Rape, Proof of Penetration) ; Uterus, Malfor- mations OP {Defects of the Hymen); Vulva, Diseases of the {Morbid Conditions of the Hymen). HymenoiepsiS. See Parasites {Ces- todes). Hymenoptera. See Myiasis {Insect Stings and Bites). Hyoid Bone. See Neck, Region of {Anatomical Details). HyOSCine. See Hyoscyamus. HyOSCyamuS. See also Alkaloids ( Vegetable); Analgesics and Anodynes ; Phar- macology ; Toxicology {Alkaloids, Henbane). Heiabane. The fresh leaves of Hyoscyamus niger. They contain two important alkaloids. 1. Hyoscyamine occurring as minute crystals, soluble 1 in 120 of water, with an action prac- tically the same as that of atropine. 2. Hyoscine, a thick syrupy substance, only used in the form of one of its crj'stalline salts. It is identical with Scopolamine, an alkaloid derived from the root of Scopolia atropoides. It has a powerful depressant action on the central nervous system. Preparations—1. Extractum Hyoscyarai Viride. Dose—2-8 gr. 2. Succus Hyoscyami. Dose— |-13. 3. Tinctura Hyoscyami. Dose—i-l3- 4. Pilula Colocynthidis et Hyoscyami, containing the green extract of hyoscyamus. Dose—4-8 gr. 5. Hyoscinie Hydrobromidum, identical with Scopolamine hydrobromide ; colourless crystals, soluble 1 in 3 of water. Dose—tt^o't^o ^■ HyoscyaminfB Sulphas, a crystalline deliquescent powder, solul)le 2 in 1 of water. Dose— The action of hyoscyamus is very similar to that of belladonna, but it possesses also a sedative effect on the nervous system due to the presence of hyoscine. It is a more powerf^il peristaltic stimulant than belladonna, and more effectually prevents griping when given in conjunction with