HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF 223 there is no tendency for the signs to reappear. But it is by no means unusual to find extensive fractures of the pelvis or femur associated with dislocation of the hip, and then, as well as when a portion of the rim of the acetabulum is separ- —drawn from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the most prominent part of the outer lip of the tuber ischii—and it lies unduly near the iliac spine because the head of the bone is directed backwards upon the dorsum of the Fig. 3.—Sir Astley Coopers diagrams to show tlie positions of tlie limb in the ditf'erent dislocations of the tlii.Ljh-bone, and in intra- capsular fracture ot the neck of the femur. Fig. 1. The right thigh-bone dislocated upwards upon the dorsum ilii. Fig. * Dis- location of the right femur downwards into the tliyroid or obturator foramen. Fiq. 3. Sciatic dislocation of the right hip. Fig. U. Pubic or subspinous dislocation of the right thigh. Fig. 5. Intracapsular fracture of the neck of the right femur. atcd, there will be both crepitus and a tendency for the dislocation to recur after reduction. The hip is wider and flatter than its fellow in a dorsal dislocation (Fig. 3, 1) and the injured limb is considerably shorter. The thigh is slightly flexed, adducted, and rotated inwards, so that when the patient is erect the great toe rests upon the instep of the opposite foot, and the knee touches the patella of the uninjured side near the upper margin. The great tro- chanter lies some distance above Nelaton's line ilium. The femoral vessels have lost their support owing to the displacement of the head of the femur, and the groin appears therefore to be unduly deep. The head of the femur can j generally be felt in its new situation, but all the I movements of the joint are greatly hampered. Flexion is most free, adduction is diflicult, alv j duction is impossible. When the head of the bone lies below the tendon of the obturator internus (Fig. 3, S) there is less shortening of the limb, but the flexion, adduction, and inver-