88 HEAKT, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUxM veins; when of embolic origin it is of course always arterial. The medium-sized vessels seem to be most prone to be involved. The embolus occurring in cardiac disease is commonly formed by blood-clot, but sometimes it may arise from a detached fragment of a calcified valve, a portion of vegetations, or parts of a softening thrombus. In endocarditis em- bolism is common. It also frequently occurs iu cases of dilated heart, and particularly in such cases of valvular disease as mitral stenosis, where cardiac thrombi are especially liable to form between the musculi pectinati of the left auricle, in the left auricular appendix, and around and between the columnse carnefe of the left ventricle. The manifestations of embolism vary according as to whether the obstructed vessel is furnished with a free anastomosis or is terminal. In the former the effects are usually temporary and comparatively trivial. Obstruc- tion of so-called end arteries, such as the pulmon- ary, renal, splenic, and coronary arteries, the central artery of the retina and the nutrient arteries of the brain, to which may also be added for practical purposes the superior mesen- teric artery, leads to results more or less serious, and frequently producing permanent defect. The consequences of such blocking are engorge- ment, hiemorrhage, and necrosis occurring separ- ately or in combination. Acute aneurysms may arise in the cerebral and coronary vessels as a result of embolic blocking in septic endocarditis. Hsemorrhagic infarction of the lungs is an almost constant accident of severe cardiac dis- ease. The affected portion, varying in size from a minute patch to a mass involving the greater part of a lobe, is rendered solid, of a deep red colour, and often wedge-shaped. The lung alveoli are distended with blood, and the adjacent vessels engorged. Frequently an " embolic " pneumonia in the neighbourhood of the infarct greatly extends the area of con- solidation. Some pathologists claim that many of tiie pulmonary infarcts are not of embolic origin, but are to be looked upon as true htemor- rhages. Renal infarcts are common in heart cases. They are usually of the so-called white variety, presenting yellowish-white wedge-shaped areas with the base at the surface of the cortex, and generally with a surrounding zone of hyper- aimia. Splenic infarcts often assume considerable dimensions. Various gradations between the white and the red occur. Commonly they form large wedge-shaped but sometimes irregular yellowish-white areas surrounded by a zone of congestion. Obstruction of the cerebral vessels leading to infarction of the brain, as it may be considered, usually produces a simple white softening or encephalomalacia; but in some cases, as for example in malignant endocarditis, there may be red softening, or even such copious haemor- rhage as to obliterate all evidence of the pro- ducing embolus. Infarction of the myocardium may itself occur from embolism of the coronary vessels. It leads to a condition of cardiomalacia, but occasionally a distinct " hsemorrhagic infarct" is produced. In heart cases it is by no means uncommon for the pathologist to discover depressed, puckered cicatrices and remnants of scar tissue in the spleen, kidneys, and lungs, evidencing the occurrence of previous infarction. Reference may here be made to the fact that in most cases of malignant endocarditis the resulting infarcts are usually simple, presenting no tendency to undergo suppuration, although in some of the pyaemic varieties distinct ab- scesses result. Hcemorrhages are of common occurrence in heart disease. Usually they are associated with states of passive hypersemia, embolism, or in- farction. Numerous minute cutaneous haemorrhages are frequently met with in the final stages of cardiac affection, being particularly common about the wrists and back of the hands, but especially met with in the lower extremities. In malignant endocarditis haemorrhages into the skin and mucous membranes are of common occurrence. Such forms of haemorrhage as epistaxis, haemo- ptysis, haematemesis, apoplexy, hfematuria, and metrorrhagia will be best dealt with clinically. Altered Blood States.—From what has been said regarding the secondary anaemia and hyperaemia occurring in heart disease it will be manifest that profound changes must occur in the blood. In malignant endocarditis leucocytosis is usually well marked, and may prove of dia- gnostic service. In cyanosis the blood is visibly darker than normal. Its density is increased. The haemo- globin is raised in amount, and both forms of corpuscles increased. This [increase is said to occur in congenital as well as acquired forms, and in both primary and secondary cardiac failure. Such changes are apparently not to be explained by a mere concentration of the blood arising from transudation of its more watery parts, neither are they altogether com- pensatory to the cyanosis, but are due probably, as Gibson suggests, to the fact that the functions of the corpuscles being lessened the wear and tear which they undergo is reduced, and the duration of their individu.al existence prolonged. It is, however, not clear if the condition of the blood in the superficial and more accessible parts may not vary from that in the deeper regions of the body. Jaundice is a common condition in advanced stages of heart disease. It is generally indica-