INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 478 And lastly, extravagant conduct is characteristic —a manner and behaviour which is on the way to the ridiculous, or which sails very close to the wind and verges on the disreputable. As I have said, these signs of abnormal varia- tion may be multiplied indefinitely, and from what has necessarily been little more than a list of the more important, the physician may gather little that will be of use in practice. It remains, therefore, to refer to a few of the more frequent types of persons who manifest the insane diathesis; but always with the premise that even those who seem to conform most closely to such types are not to be set down as abnormal unless there is an abundance of contributory symptoms. But many of the symptoms which have been mentioned will be found in some of the following:— There is a type of men and women who are the impersonation of timidity—shrinking, cring- ing, diffident, bashful—whose knees seem to give way on the slightest provocation, who are always afraid, but who may be all the same capable of great and even of heroic things. There is the sentimentalist who wallows in feeling, who cannot take a cool and reasonable view of anything,—pious perverts who translate every- thing into the terms of a silly religion which finds almost no expression in a dutiful life; devotees of festhetics, who sacrifice everything to their sense of beauty; and other sensuous varieties. There is the amorous type of persons who take the opportunity, in season and out of season, to engage the affections of their pro- miscuous victims; feminine men who dote upon male beauty, masculine women who fight shy of men, the sanest of whom find expression in asserting the rights of their sex ; and others who make a fetish of prudishness and "dwell with inverted gusto" on the evil of a feeling which, in its normal form, nature has denied to them. Of another form are the grievance-mongers, persons of an inveterate suspiciousness, always smelling a rat, ready to take offence, hopeless as wives or husbands or colleagues in office. There are the half-insane snobs, devotees to " good families," toadies, and sycophants; and the "affiliative" variety who, on the slenderest grounds, trace their relationship with all and sundry who can be of use to them. Then there are the recognised paranoiacs, victims of disordered thinking, many of them more or less degenerate. The generic feature of them all depends upon a temperament which indisposes them to get on smoothly with their neighbours. The classical type is the querulous paranoiac, a variety of grievance-monger who airs his disputes in public, and supports his case with obviously deluded arguments, who can never take a decision against him, carries his case perhaps from one court to another, and who often has recourse in the end to a violent attack upon some personage of note in order to attract the attention of an indifferent public. In private life the tactless bore is almost as grievous a person, full of superficial ideas, in- ordinately pleased with his sickly wit, quite oblivious of contempt, not easily snubbed. Then there is the gull, the butt of all his acquaintances, good-natured often and often secretly vain, whom any one can impose upon, and who never learns from experience. And Paul Pry is another type, the curious paranoiac, whose nose is always in his neighbours' affairs, or who, in a less harmful sphere, buries himself in useless investigations. Then there are the unpersuadables, whose ideas are hopelessly fixed and who cannot see the force of argument, or, if they do, " are of the same opinion still " ; and all the cranks and fanatics, "idea-fiends," as America knows them, who find in teetotalism, anarchy, socialism, or a land-tax, the solution of all the world's difficulties. Lastly, there are the more or less thoughtless persons whose conduct is dis- orderly. Of these, we may note the dare-devil, who does anything he cares without apparent regard to safety; casual paranoiacs who cannot appreciate the importance which men attach to their time and to their property, careless, hap- hazard, impunctual people who break their engagements and do nothing thoroughly or exactly; gushing men and women, voluble in expression, silly and empty-headed, except for a store of useless information; the would-be re- formers who never see anything they cannot improve upon; and the feckless, who can never arrange their affairs, who spend their days in vain efforts to redeem lost time, always busy and never doing much. These people, ill-nourished, or prone to excess, or careless of health, often come to an unhappy end, perish in some hopeless cause, pamper themselves with the connivance of foolish rela- tives into chronic hypochondria, or, driven from pillar to post, from post to pillar, end in an asylum. A little care and systematic inquiry easily furnish the facts by which to recognise the more precarious of these variations. We must not, however, conclude hastily that a man is of insane predisposition merely because of some conspicuous eccentricity or bad habit. From such judgments has arisen the prepos- terous fallacy that geniuses are usually degene- rate. As has been noted, some abnormal people are prodigiously accomplished in certain direc- tions. But the common sense of mankind re- volts against the judgment which classes with them the really great minds of history. A Shakespeare, a Goethe, a Napoleon, does not manifest arrest of development, and a woman must needs have suffered much from modern teaching to be afraid to have such an one as the father of her children. These great minds apprehend much that is beyond the common perception, but their genius was based upon a strong fabric of primitive human instinct.