HAND 50 line running from the pisiform bone, and the lowest part of the arch being in the middle of the palm at a level of the web between the thumb and index finger. The deep palmar arch lies a quarter of an inch higher up the palm. Appearances in Certain Diseases. — In examining the hands one should notice whether there be any cyanosis or oedema, the latter being- most noticeable on the dorsum. The strength of the grasp should be ascertained, and, if de- ficient, recorded by the dynamometer. The sAo/je of the hands may be abnormal in consequence of some general disease. Thus in acromegaly the hands, though not deformed, are much enlarged and extremely broad, the enlarge- ment being mainly due to increase of the soft parts. The palmar creases are unusually dis- tinct. In pulmonary osteoarthropathy the hands are enlarged, but also somewhat deformed, and the fingers are clubbed at their extremities. In syringomyelia the hands may be enlarged, but they too show deformity, for instance, muscular atrophy, contraction, and scarring. In myx- oedema the dorsum is swollen, but does not pit on pressure and the hands are cold. The hands of a cretin are short, broad, and appear somewhat swollen, are sometimes of a purplish colour, and the skin is crumpled, redundant, and cold. In achondroplasia the hands somewhat resemble those of a cretin, but the ring and middle fingers are curved away from one another, and the skin is more natural than in the cretin. The meta- carpal portion of the hand in Mongolian imbecility is small and soft, while the fingers, as compared with the hand, are somewhat thick, but taper at their extremities, and the little finger has often a curve, the concavity of which is towards the ring finger. General atrophy of the hand is chiefly observed as a congenital defect or as a result of infantile paralysis. Wasting of the soft parts is seen in the course of general wasting diseases, starvation, and old age, whilst atrophy, localised to certain areas, indicates some myelopathic or nervous lesion. Thus one sees atrophy of the thenar and hypothenar eminences in progressive muscular atrophy, and sometimes in syringomyelia and lead palsy. Localised atrophy may be associated with contraction and deformity, as occurs in ulnar paralysis from wasting of the interossei and the two inner lumbricales, the contraction affecting specially the little and ring fingers of one hand, or again in the main en griffe of progressive muscular atrophy, where all four fingers are equally involved. The alteration in form may exist chiefly in the joints, which may be swollen, painful, dis- torted, etc. The causal condition will in most cases be rheumatism, rheumatoid arthritis, or gout, and in gouty subjects one may also find tophi, Heberden's nodes, and exostoses. In consequence of disease or injury of a peripheral nerve the nutrition of the sMn may be impaired in the area supplied by it, and the skin becomes thin and shiny, or is even the seat of other trophic lesions. Fibrillary tivitchings in the muscles are seen in several conditions, e.g. progressive muscular atrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or syringo- myelia, but the first-mentioned of these condi- tions is the most frequent cause. As regards treinors, the most important, from a clinical standpoint, is the tremor so often seen in the hands in chronic alcoholism. Wounds.—The hand is one of the regions of the body most frequently wounded, and the majority of the wounds are on the palmar aspect. A small punctured wound of the palm may be troublesome on account of hsemorrhage from a punctured vessel. This is best dealt with by enlarging the wound and applying a double ligature to the injured vessel. Frag- ments of glass, broken needles, and other foreign bodies often penetrate, and chiefly into the palmar surface. They may be followed by suppuration, or may only give rise to pain when the skin over them is touched. It is often difficult to locate with accuracy, and still more difficult to remove these foreign bodies. Septic Inflammation may occur after a wound of the hand itself, or may spread to the hand from elsewhere. Thus it is common after a whitlow, and more especially after a whitlow of the thumb or little finger, in which digits the flexor sheaths continue upwards through the hand to above the anterior annular ligament. The symptoms are in general the same as those of suppiu-ation elsewhere, but in the palm, owing to the density of the more superficial tissues, any deeply-seated inflammation is liable to be unusually painful, and if pus be formed, it tends to travel either above the wrist towards the fingers, or towards the dorsum of the hand. Tenosynovitis, or inflammation of the tendon sheaths, may be seen affecting the flexor or extensor sheaths in the hand or the fingers. If it be acute, there is pain, stiffiiess, creaking on movement, and sometimes fluctuation. Or the acute form may be of a suppurative character, and then tends to cause necrosis of the tendon and suppuration round the sheath. Pus in the palm travels to the regions previously indicated. Chronic tenosynovitis is usually tubercular, and occurs more often about the wrist than in the hand itself or the fingers. The affected sheath contains a variable amount of fluid in which one finds the characteristic melon seed bodies. Compound palmar ganglion, which is usually a tubercular tenosynovitis of the common flexor sheath, is characterised by a chronic swelling in the palm and in the lower part of the forearm. This swelling appears to be divided by the anterior annular ligament into two portions, but the fluid can be driven from one portion to the other beneath the ligament. Simple ganglion, too, may be seen in the palm, but