110 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM to give at least occasional purgatives in the treatment of heart disease, that the influence of these in the production of intestinal catarrh has to be kept in mind. Apart from the use of purgatives, constipation is, perhaps, a more commonly troublesome symptom than looseness of the bowels. It often happens that, while there is habitual constipation, diarrhoea sets in fi'om time to time, probably tlie resiilt of irritat- ing substances being formed in the intestinal ti'act. Here, as in the case of the stomach, the importance of the manner of alimentation of the cardiac sufferer is immense. HcBmorrhage from the Portal System. — In sevei'e gastric catarrh a little blood may appear in the vomited matters, but such htemorrhage is iisually very scanty. It occasionally happens, however, that a profuse bleeding occurs in a heart case per rectum, and is preceded by pain and a tendency towards collapse. In the worst of such cases embolism or thrombosis of large mesenteric arteries is the likely lesion to be found post-mortem, but more than once the writer has known profuse hemorrhage from the bowels to occur in heart disease without there being found post-mortem any lesion to account for it. Cerebral Si/mptoms. — Towards the end of cardiac cases mental disturbance is not un- common, and assumes difierent forms, no doubt determined by the hereditary and personal pre- disposition of the individual. The writer doubts if any special form of mental derangement can be definitely ascribed to cardiac disease, much less to special forms of it. Painful delusions of suspicion are common, and under their influence patients will rise from their beds and subject themselves to efforts they might be thought incapable of. It happens as a consequence that a patient by thus throwing a strain upon his enfeebled heart may render impossible further rally, though the case is often nearing its end before the supervention of mental de- rangement. The many forms of heart disease, and the multifarious associations of the disease, must introduce toxic and other conditions as capable as the disturbed circulation of disorder- ing the functions of the brain. For instance, the extreme cyanosis accompanying the cardiac failure of pulmonary emphysema is often associ- ated with bad dreams, in which the patient vociferates loudly, so that in a ward he becomes an unmanageable nuisance to his neighbours. In the heart failure of Bright's disease, again, toxic conditions, determined by the kidney dis- ease, probably have much to do with the mental disturbance, which resembles rather that of the " typhoid state" in general, than that associ- ated with venous stasis. Active delirium, again, is a common accompaniment of the hyperpyrexia of acute rheumatism, so apt to be associated with endo- and pericarditis. Perhaps the most definite association, as cause and effect, of heart disease and cerebral disturbance is the hemi- plegia resulting from cerebral embolism, which will be considered later. Epileptoid and syncopal seizures are common as the result of sluggish cerebral circulation in cases of bradycardia. In extreme aortic incom- petence mental disturbance is perhaps specially common, and in its production the wide varia- tion between the maximum and minimum blood- pressure may play a part. The cyanosed, bloated face of the sufferers from extreme mitral stenosis or the cardiac failure of pulmonary emphysema contrasts strongly with the pale face of the subject of free aortic incompetence, and it seems reasonable to suppose that the two physiognomies reflect to some extent the mode of interference with the cerebral circiilation, notwithstanding its peculiarities. Active mental derangement is too often a lethal indication in cardiac cases, and the fact is to be explained by this derangement being a late symptom, and therefore likely to be associ- ated with the more lethal conditions of other important organs, including the heart itself, and specially by the very grave opposition to the treatment of the case it offers. Thus if a patient in the late stages of cardiac disease insists upon going down and up stairs on his own legs, the effort may prove speedily fatal to the already over-taxed heart, and the medical attendant has no choice except between heavily narcotising him (not always a safe and easy thing to do) and restraining him by the hands of attendants. Strapping any patient down in bed is a relic of the barbarous ages that has hardly quite gone, but to strap down a cardiac case would simply mean manslaughter, so certainly and speedily would it determine hypostatic congestion of the lungs. After a prolonged forced sleep it often happens that the patient wakes up, if not compos mentis, at least amenable to the care of his attendants, but occasionally the morbid activities them- selves awake likewise as if refreshed by rest. Thrombosis of large veins is an occasional result of cardiac disease producing in the lower extremities the conditions so well known as " Phlegmasia alba dolens" (though it is not always painful), liable to occur after parturition, fevers, etc. In heart disease the accident is to be regarded as of very unfavourable prognosis, not so much because of its intrinsic gravity as of the state of general circulation and vitality it denotes. Moreover, the possible detachment of particles of clot and consequent pulmonary embolism has to be borne in mind. The dropsy that results from it is distinguished from cardiac dropsy by its being usually limited to one ex- tremitj", or if involving both extremities, by its being greater on one side than the other. Cardiac dropsy is, however, not invariably sym- metrical, and the cause of such asymmetry is not always clear. It is obvious, however, that in a cardiac case ordinary dropsy is likely to be