519 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF his clothes, in pulling things to pieces, and so forth. The remedy is obvious. He should be found something to do. If he is too demented to undertake any more intelligent occupation than that of tearing, he should be given news- papers to tear. Mechanical restraint is practically never used in institutions specially devoted to the treat- ment of insanity, although the imbecile wards of workhouses are not considered properly equipped without a supply of strait waistcoats and of buckled sheets for fastening troublesome patients down in bed. While restraint to the extent which this provision of appliances implies is never required, and is improper, it is a ques- tion whether the total abolition of mechanical restraint is not an unnecessary and an undesir- able sacrifice to convention and sentiment. Certainly mechanical restraint should never be employed, and should be rendered illegal outside of lunatic asylums; but with the usual logic of that law, which its professors are fond of describing as the perfection of common sense, the use of mechanical restraint, in the last resort, in places in which its use is surroimded by every imaginable safeguard, is pounced upon, discovintenanced, and considered disreputable; while its use by persons who are very incom- petent judges of its necessity or desirability as a frequent means of control in cases in which it is neither necessary nor desirable, is not forbidden in private houses or in workhouses. While the cases in which the use of mechanical restraint is permissible are undoiibtedly very few, there is a small residue in which it is some- times of service and even very beneficial. A patient will sometimes beg to be tied down or put in a strait waistcoat in order to prevent him from giving way to his impulse to injure him- self or others; and in such a case the feeling of confidence and peace that is engendered by the restraint is far greater than can be attained by the knowledge of watchfulness on the part of liis attendants, and is well worth the sacrifice of a principle which, carried to excess, is but a sentiment. Cases of very persistent masturba- tion are sometimes impossible to control by any but mechanical means, and in such cases the mechanical restraint is certainly a less evil than continual struggling and interference. The same may be said of cases of very persistent self-injury. In this, as in other matters, there is a degree of fanaticism which is unjustifiable and pernicious. While it is undoubted that the use of mechanical restraint should be minimised to the utmost, it is a mistake to suppose that it would be an unmixed benefit to abolish it altogether. I n sects. See Cholera, Epidemic {Etiology, Insects); Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causal Agents); Malaria ; Myiasis ; Para- sites {Diptera); Pinta {Etiology). Insemination. -— The deposition of semen in the vaginal canal as the result of sexual connection. insensibility. See An/esthesia; Un- consciousness ; etc. Insertion of Cord. See F(etus and Ovum, Development {Umbilical Cord); Preg- nancy, Pathology of {Diseases of Placenta and Cord, Ano7nalies in l7isertion of Cord). Insolation. See Sunstroke; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of. Insomnia. See Sleep, Normal and Morbid ; Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {AncBmia, Hypercemia); Gout {Symptoms, Ner- vous System); Headache {Results); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Treatment, Sleeplessness); Hypnotics; Hyp- notism {Therapeutic Uses); Insanity ; Pel- lagra {Symptoms, Insomnia) ; Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Nervous System); Pruritus {Treatment of Insomnia). Inspiration. See Physiology {Respira- tion, Mechanism, Movements of Respiration); Pulse {Pulse and Respiration); Respiration. Instillation.—The administration of a liquid medicine drop by drop, usually in connec- tion with diseases of the eye or ear. See Bladder, Diseases {Cystitis, Treatment, Instil- lation). Instinct. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Index of Mental Functions, Instincts). Instruments. See Aseptic Treatment op Wounds : Antiseptic Surgery ; Curettage ; Disinfection ; Labour, Operations ; etc. Insufficiency. See Inadequacy; In- competence ; Heart, Affections of Myocar- dium AND Endocardium (Valvular Lesions); Pulse. Insufflation.—The blowing of air laden with a finely divided drug or of a vapour into a cavity, e.g. the larynx for medical purposes. See Pharmacology ; etc. Insula Reilli. See Brain, Physiology OF {Anatomy, Island of Reil). Insular Sclerosis. See Paralysis (With Tremor, Disseminated Sclerosis). Insurance. See Life Insurance. Integ^ument. Skin. Intellig'ence. See Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms {Index of Mental Functions, Thought, Intelligence). Intemperance. See Alcoholism; Morphinomania ; Vice.