HYSTERIA, SURGICAL ASPECTS OF 333 patient limps badly, or refuses to use the limb at all. There may be the history of an injury —perhaps months or even years before. Pain is said to be very severe, especially on move- ment. Examination should be made with both limbs bare so that the surgeon may be able to compare them. At first a difference between the two may be apparent, but closer examina- tion will show this to be slight if at all. On looking for painful spots these will be found to be, as usual, superficial, variable, and uncertain. By this the possibility of a Brodie's abscess may be often at once eliminated. Anaes- thetic areas also may be made out. It will gener- ally be found that the pain does not prevent sleep, and that there is xio starting at night. This last symptom may be simulated if the patient has heard or read about it. The temperature of the joint will be normal or sub- normal, the skin being sometimes blue or dead white in appearance. The joint may seem to be swollen, but there will be no fluctuation, or thickening of the synovial membrane. The bones will be normal, and the patella will be movable, but not floating. The relation of the bones to one another will also be normal. There may be some " puffiness " or even oedema, and perhaps a transient redness —as has already been pointed out. If the patient be otherwise well nourished a comfortable layer of subcutaneous fat will be easily made out. On the other hand, atrophy of the limb may exist to a certain extent from want of use, and may be increased by what I have ventured to call "hysterical shrinkage." Careful measure- ments will, however, demonstrate that the joint is not enlarged, and that the muscle wasting is more apparent than real. The position which the limb usually adopts is straight, but the joint may be flexed. The limb is usually rigid with the muscles firmly contracted so as to pre- vent motion, which is said to be very painful. If the surgeon manipulate carefully, however, he may be able to satisfy himself that mobility is present and is perfectly normal and painless. In some hysterical cases, instead of pain with rigidity, the patient complains of weakness. She does not use the limb, and, in consequence, there may be considerable atrophy. One very important point, on which Paget lays consider- able stress, is, that the apparent disease is not so advanced as would be the case had actual disease existed for the period during which the patient has complained. Sometimes swelling and redness may be caused by irritating applications. If this be done fraudulently it can generally be discovered by investigation. One must be careful not to overlook some chronic or subacute affection, such as gout or rheumatism. The symptoms of a loose body or cartilage in the knee joint may be simulated. Generally, however, the pain complained of is excessive and uncertain in character. Lastly, under an anaesthetic all symptoms disappear, and as the consciousness returns so do the symptoms. This generally settles the diagnosis. Hysterical Affections of Muscles.—These are often pure examples of mimicry. The patient sees some one affected with the genuine disease, and, consciously or unconsciously, voluntarily or involuntarily, imitates the move- ments. As examples I shall refer to only two affections, spasmodic wry-neck and squint. Wry-neck, if hysterical, comes on suddenly, varies in degree, may intermit, and may pass from the one side to the other. It disappears entirely during sleep. It may be connected with intestinal irritation. It tends to disappear, and may do so suddenly. This will be more fully discussed under " Wry- neck " and " Spasmodic Affections of Muscle." (See also " Strabismus.") Hysterical Tumours.—Abdominal phantom tumours, as they are called, seldom come into the hands of the surgeon. They generally go to the physician and obstetrician. I have little to say of them beyond that they disappear when the patient is placed under the influence of an anaesthetic. Mamma. —Painful affections of the breast are sometimes supposed by patients to be malignant tumours. If the non-existence of a tumour be made out the patient is generally much com- forted. If, however, she be hysterical, she may prefer her imaginary tumour and may disbelieve the surgeon's comforting assurances. This is a very characteristic symptom. In regard to such cases Paget says that we must judge by what we feel, and not by what the patient feels or says she feels. The pain complained of in hysterical breast is, as usual, excessive and varying; sometimes passing from one breast to another. I should like to say in this connection, that in my ex- perience the removal of the breast for neuralgia (hysterical f) when no actual disease can be made out is most unsatisfactory. The patient may be better for a time, but the pain returns in the other breast, and if that be removed, as I have seen done, the pain is transferred, after a time, to some other part. Hysterical Intestinal Obstruction.—Hys- terical subjects are well known to be prone to constipation. They are neglectful of the calls of nature, and are sometimes even dirty in their habits. Under such circumstances it is possible for the bowels to become torpid, and loaded with fccces to such an extent as to cause ob- struction. Such cases difi'er in no respect from ordinary examples of fajculent obstruction as regards either symptoms or treatment. But there is another class of cases in which ob-