213 HERPES cyclical ulcer is exposed. At the end of a week or so the scab, which becomes daily thinner, finally sepai'ates, leaving only a pinkish or slightly pigmented spot which rapidly dis- appears. It is extremely rare, and in marked contrast to zoster, to have any permanent scar left even when the lesions have been the seat of pus infection, or been irritated by unsuitable dressings. Herpes geiiitaiis is a common disease in the male sex iip to forty years of age, but in the female sex its incidence is almost entirely confined to prostitutes, occurring often at their menstrual periods, and frequently in those who have suffered from antecedent syphilis. In the male the disease usually occurs on the prepuce; it tends to relapse at much shorter intervals than herpes facialis, and is certainly of frequent occurrence in persons who have had syphilis. It sometimes recurs after every act of coitus in some individuals, irrespective of the health of the woman, and often follows indiscretions of diet, or may occur independently of any ascertainable cause. In France it is regarded as strong evidence of " arthritism " {vide "Gout," vol. iii. p. 494). The chief importance of pro- genital herpes lies in the facility for which it may be mistaken for soft chancres, especially' when not seen at the commencement. Generally speaking, the lesion of chancroid is at first single, those of herpes are multiple, and on an erythematous base; the herpetic lesions are generally cleaner, not so purulent as the chancre ; there is more burning and itching in herpes than in chancroid : finally, the pus of herpes is not auto-inoculable. Treatment. — Facial herpes may often be abated in the early stage by mopping with swabs soaked in rectified spirit or eau de Cologne. Sometimes bathing with very hot water answers equally well, or the application of a coating of collodion. In the later stages inert powders (oxide of zinc, starch, chalk, emol) may be dusted on; when the vesicles burst, dilute boric vaselin or ammoniated mercury ointment may be used. Norman Walker recommends painting the affected parts in each attack of facial herpes with argent, nitrat. (gr. xx.) in spir. aether, nitrosi (ij.), as distinctly increasing the intervals between the attacks and ultimately sometimes effecting a cure. For the same purpose arsenic in prolonged courses and gradually increasing doses is warmly recommended in many quarters, while others rely upon nerve tonics (quinine, strychnine, belladonna, bromide of potassium) or change of air to various spas, home or foreign. In the management of genital herpes in both sexes strict attention to cleanliness is of paramount importance. Herpes Zoster or Zona Herpes zoster, zona, or shingles—so called from its girdle-like distribution—is a fairly common disease, and occurs in about 6 per cent of all skin cases (Radclifte-Crocker). Its etiology is obscure, and beyond cold or chill no definite cause can be assigned for it, although recent views tend to favour the possibility of its being caused by a specific poison. It occurs in both sexes, and is generally stated to be most freq^ient between the ages of 3 and 20, the maximum incidence being between the ages of 12 and 13 ; but older people are by no means exempt, and in them the symptoms are apt to be severe. Although the disease often occurs in persons in robust health, general debility acts as a predisposing cause, as also—as first pointed out by Hutchinson—does arsenic when taken over long periods of time ; but that arsenic is only an indirect cause is clearly shown by the small number who are affected out of the m^iltitude who take the drug. Herpes zoster may be symptomatic, and, as such, is seen in certain diseases of the nervous system, as tabes dorsalis and myelitis; in the latter the eruption often corresponds to the upper level of the anaesthesia. Chronic peri- pheral irritation, e.g. caries of a rib or nerve injuries, will also sometimes give rise to attacks, which in such cases may be recurrent. The disease is probably of a specific nature, as shown by its acute onset, definite coarse, the infrequency of second attacks, and by the fact that it often recurs in distinct epidemics. Head considers it an acute inflammatory affection of the posterior root ganglia, analogous to that of the cells of the anterior cornua in acute anterior poliomyelitis. Symptoms arid Co^irse.—An attack of herpes zoster is usually ushered in with general feelings of malaise and a rise of temperature which, in children, may reach 102° F.; superadded to these symptoms being acute pain and hyper- aesthesia over the nerve area subsequently to be affected. In children the amount of pain may be slight or nil. The date of the appearance of the eruption is variable, but it usually appears at earliest two or three days after the first symptoms have shown themselves. The eruption appears first as an erythematous patch or patches, upon which numbers of small vesicles develop within a few hours. This out- break follows the distribution of the nerve- fibres of the posterior roots, and is most intense where the main branches come to the surface, the patches being frequently oval, their long axis parallel to the subjacent nerve. The characteristic distribution is most typically shown in a case of intercostal herpes, in which one group of vesicles will often be seen near the spine over the spot where the posterior primary branch of the posterior root comes to the surface; another close to the axillary line over the site of the lateral branch of the anterior