INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF 509 manager of the institution. In any case he must not be so insane as to be certifiable. A Bill is now before Parliament authorising the temporary admission into private care of a lunatic whose insanity is not confirmed, under a single medical certificate and without any further authority. This provision is adopted from the Scotch law, which see. If the patient is certifiable, and if his malady is " confirmed" (see infra), there are three modes by which his detention under care and treatment may be legalised: the judicial re- ception order, the urgency order, and the in- quisition. The judicial reception order is obtained from a justice specially appointed under the Act, or from a stipendiary magistrate, or from a County Court judge, by means of a petition from a relative of the patient, accompanied by a state- ment of particulars and supported by two medical certificates. There is no need to give here the form of the medical certificate, which is suffi- ciently well known, nor is any accomplishment needed for its correct execution beyond ordinary care and ordinary intelligence. It is neverthe- less remarkable how few certificates are correctly executed. The obvious precaution of referring to all the marginal notes and complying with the instructions that they contain is usually neglected, as is the other obvious precaution of reading it carefully through after it is made. The consequence of this neglect is that certifi- cates, which are discreditable to their signators, are very frequently sent to the commissioners, by whom they are returned for the correction of palpable blunders which never ought to have been made. Apart from the form of the certifi- cate, which can be made in due order by the exercise of the most ordinary care, the substance demands attention. The object of the certificate is to satisfy the mind of the judicial authority to whom the petition is presented, that the patient is of unsound mind, and a proper person to be detained under care and treatment. It should, therefore, contain such evidence of these facts as shall carry conviction to the mind of a person who has never seen the patient and knows nothing about him. Too often the medical practitioner looks upon himself as the only person who has to be satisfied of these condi- tions, and embodies in his certificate little more than an assurance that he is satisfied. This is a very erroneous view. What is required by the justice is not the conclusion at which the medical practitioner has arrived, but the grounds of this conclusion. The terms of the certificate itself are quite sufficient to indicate what is required. They require the practitioner to state that he has arrived at the conclusion that the patient is of unsound mind, etc., and that he is a proper person to be taken charge of and de- tained under care and treatment; and further, that "I have formed this conclusion on the I following grounds, viz.: facts indicating insanity observed by myself at the time of examination," and " facts communicated to me by others." It would be difficult to put into more explicit terms the requirement of the law, and yet this require- ment is frequently ignored. Very commonly, under the head of "facts indicating insanity," is inserted a diagnosis, and still more commonly is inserted an opinion which the certifier mis- takes for an observed fact. The only "facts," rightly so called, which can properly be stated in a certificate are the sayings, doings, and in some cases the appearance of the patient. Seeing that the certificate states that the patient is of unsound mind, the certifier fre- quently falls into the error of enumerating states of mind as " facts indicating insanity." He will say that the patient is depressed, that he suffers from delirium, that he thinks this, and feels that, and believes the other. But these are not " facts observed at the time of examination," or at any other time. They are opinions. They are inferences drawn from the sayings and doings of the patient; and it is these sayings and doings, and not the inferences from them, that are in fact observed, and that alone may rightly be included in the certificate. If the act or statement of the patient is mani- festly insane; if, for instance, he hands his interlocutor a scrap of newspaper on which is written a cheque for a million pounds ; or if he knocks oflP his visitor's hat and jumps upon it, then no more than the bare recital of the fact is needed. But if the act or statement is only conditionally insane ; if, that is to say, it cannot be known to be insane without a knowledge of the circumstances of the patient, then so much of these circumstances as suffice to establish the insanity of the act or statement must be em- bodied in the certificate. If, for instance, the patient states that he is ruined, or that his leg- is broken, or that his wife has deserted him,— statements which are only conditionally insane, —then the practitioner must satisfy himself, first, that the statement is untrue ; second, that the patient cannot be convinced of its untruth ; and must state these qualifying facts, as well as the primary fact of the statement itself, in the certificate. The disadvantage of the procedure by judicial reception order is that, requiring as it does the concurrence of several—at least four—persons, it necessarily occupies time, and sometimes the necessity of taking out of a person's own hands the control of his affairs is so instant and im- portunate that this time cannot be given. For these cases is provided the procedure by urgency order, under which it is lawful to detain a patient for a limited time upon the oi'der of the relative, accompanied by a medical certificate, not only of his insanity and of the evidence of it, but likewise of the reasons which render it expedient that he should be forthwith placed under care