337 ICHTHYOSIS pellicle of dark brown or yellowish colour, and after a few days epidermic scales and plates of various sizes are found, with fissures and cracks. The mouth, nose, ears, and genitals are affected as in a harlequin foetus, but to a less degree. Pathology.—Caspary found great hypertrophy of all the layers of the epidermis, and a pro- nounced atrophy of all structural elements of the skin, with the exception of sweat glands, which were in marked evidence. Ichthyosis Simplex—(Syn. : /. Vera, Com- mon Ichthyosis).—Although the more severe forms of this disease were clearly recognised by older observers, Willan was the first to take a comprehensive view of the disease in all its degrees of severity. His original clinical de- scription remains, even at the present day, almost perfect and complete; and his separa- tion of two distinct types—I. simplex and I. cornea—is still generally accepted. Amongst others Alibert, Rayer, Hebra, Gas- koin, and Erasmus Wilson have greatly helped to advance our knowledge of the disease, while Unna has recently made important observations on its pathological anatomy. Symptoms.—In the mildest form, to which the names xerodermia and xerosis are often unneces- sarily given, the skin in certain regions, such as the extensor surfaces of the arms and legs, is dry and dirty-looking, with exaggeration of the natural skin lines. The surface is covered with fine scales, and the hair follicles stand out as innumerable little conical projections, which feel remarkably rough and hard when the hand is passed over them. (/. anserina vel. keratosis follicularis.) Associated with the rough condition of the skin there may be a certain amount of redness, which is liable to become more pronounced in cold weather, or from iri-itation of any kind. In more severe cases (/. nitida) the whole of the surface of the skin is more or less involved, the disease being still more pronounced on the ex- tensor surfaces of the extremities, as in the milder cases. The general appearance of the skin varies with the size, thickness, and colour of the scales. When the scales are small they desquamate as thin whitish flakes, but when they are large they are of a dirty grej or brown colour, and more adherent. In the latter case the skin is dry, rough, and dirty-looking, the natural lines and furrows are exaggerated, and the skin loses its normal elasticity. With a further degree of severity the scales are represented by large, thick, polygonal epi- dermic plates, separated by deep furrows (/. serpentina, sauridermia), and adherent to the skin. The colour in such cases becomes dark brown, green, or even black (/. nigricans). With regard to distribution the disease is VOL. IV most marked on the tips of the elbows, on the fronts of the knees, the extensor surfaces of the extremities, and on the buttocks. The follow- ing regions are either affected to a slight extent or are entirely free, viz. the face, where the skin may be rough on the forehead and cheeks, the axillfe, the flexor bends of the elbows and pop- liteal spaces, the groins, and the genital organs. In nearly all cases the disease is accurately symmetrical in distribution and intensity. The palms and soles are, in the writer's ex- perience, in most cases hard, dry, and smooth, with exaggeration of the major natural lines and diminution of the minor ones. This opinion is at variance with the statement expressed by Unna and others that the palms and soles are never affected. The mucous membranes are never involved. Subjective Symptoms.—Apart from the cutane- ous defect subjects of ichthyosis show no other signs of abnormal development and enjoy aver- age good health. Associated with the condition of the skin are certain symptoms, of which a peculiar sensitiveness to changes of temperature, especially to cold, is perhaps the most common. Patients will often volunteer the statement that they " feel the cold terribly." In many cases there is an entire absence of symptoms, although pruritus, sometimes severe, may give trouble. Asthma is sometimes associated with the disease, its sevei-ity corresponding with the con- dition of the skin (Jamieson). Acne, boils, and other skin lesions due to pyogenetic organisms are liable to occur, no doubt from the fact that the rough cracked skin is extremely suitable for harbouring micro-organisms. In addition to these symptoms ichthyotic skin is very liable to be attacked with a moist catarrh or troublesome dermatitis. These inflammatory changes are apt to occur even in the mildest cases from irritation of the skin, exposure to cold winds and heat, or even without any obvious cause. The recognition of this tendency to inflam- mation is of the greatest importance both for diagnosis and treatment, for many cases of so- called chronic eczema may be entirely due to this cause, and the underlying condition of ich- thyosis may be overlooked. The persistence of this eczematous condition, starting as it does in early life, may produce a clinical picture closely resembling prurigo. The hair tends to be scanty and lustreless, and is often absent on the trunk and limbs. The nails are sometimes badly developed, dry, and brittle. Sweating is diminished in regions where the ichthyosis is pronounced, but m&y be vicariously increased in parts slightly affected (Aubert). Free sweating in summer gives relief to patients, while wintry weather tends to aggravate any symptoms which may be present. Occasionally, 22