HEART AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 78 peculiarities of an individual, exclusive of all definite tendencies to disease," should be allowed a place in the etiology of cardiac derangements. Temperament is not an easily estimated factor. Nevertheless in functional derangements of the heart it cannot be altogether laid aside, and even in organic disease has to be remembered when arranging a course of management. (.5) PrevioMs Disease.—A former morbid pro- cess may (i.) by afi'ection of the structui-e of the heart itself or (ii.) by producing impairment of tissues outside the heart have rendered the cardio-vascular apparatus more vulnerable or less able to meet the needs of the body and the requirements of daily life. Some previous pathogenic influence may have led to injury, or established a process which, even when the particular etiological agent is withdi'awn, leaves a textural scar or functional weakness which makes the aft'ected tissues peculiarly liable to capitulate. The most influential agent is rheumatism. This, especially when acting in the form of " rheumatic fever," commonly produces endo- carditis, and frequently pericarditis. One attack is commonly followed by others, and whilst the heart is perhaps most liable to be damaged in the first, each subsequent exacerbation or fresh establishment of endocarditis i-enders the affected parts more predisposed not only to similar attacks, but to succumb to other pei'nicious influences. Thus in the case of " malignant" endocarditis it will often be found that the valves have been already crippled by a simple I'heumatic process. Scarlatina is said to precede pericarditis and endocarditis; but if all cases of rheumatism in scarlet fever be excluded, one is bound to admit that, considering the frequency of this infectious disease, it can only be accorded a very sub- ordinate place amongst the affections predispos- ing to distinct cardiac disease. Measles is also sometimes said to predispose to endocarditis, but this is doubtful. Reference may here, too, be made to the in- fluence of renal disease, especially when in the form of " granular kidney," in producing ex- tensive cardio-vascvdar changes. In not a few cases the ventricular hypertrophy ultimately gives rise to a fatal dilatation. (6) Climate. — Indirectly climatic conditions may be of considerable influence in the produc- tion and progress of cardiac affections. The cardio-depressor action of cold is of much importance, and some are still found sufficiently loyal to ancient beliefs as to consider soil, temperature, and humidity imj)ortant influences in promoting the incidence of rheumatic lesions of the heart. As might l)e expected, climate is chiefly of importance in caixliac etiology in so far as it is related to rheumatism. Rheumatic fever, howevei-, would seem to be almost ubi(iuitous. The influence of malaria in the production of cardiac disease must also be noted. (7) Social 2}osif 1071, and all therein included, is to be credited with wide reacting influence for weal or woe in the production and develop- ment of cardiac disease. It will be sufficient to remind the reader that dilatation of the heart from laborious occupation or excessive beer- drinking, or the two combined, is most frequently met with in the working class. Aortic regurgi- tation is common in men of all sections of society. It is generally thought that incompetence result- ing from a dilatation of the aorta is commonest in working men, while that dependent on valvular sclerosis from the extension of an atheromatous aortitis is common in all ranks of life. (8) Education must be allowed a place in considering the predisposing causes of cardiac disease. Not a few cardiac breakdowns date fi'om a period of ill-advised and badly regulated physical education; especially is this of im- portance when athletic pursuits are strenuously continued beyond youth and early manhood. The importance of mental strain and emotional stress in the precipitation of functional derange- ments must not be overlooked. (9) Occupation. — As above indicated, the " calling" in life is often of the greatest in- fluence in determining the special form of cardiac disease. Occupations of a laborious character will lead to hypertrophy, and if continued in states of malnutrition, with implication of the cardiac vessels, or after the limit of healthy compensation has been attained, dilatation and degenerative changes will inevitably result. The importance of work and pursuits necessitating sudden strain or intermittent stress cannot be over-estimated. Work requiring exposure to damp and cold and such influences as are supposed to lead to rheumatism indirectly become of some import- ance in the etiology of cardiac disease. Duties or avocations making exceptional calls upon the nervous system are liable to produce functional derangements of the heart. Sedentary workers, who feed not wisely but too well, frequently develop conditions associated with high arterial pressure, sclerotic changes in the coronary and other vessels, and degenerative changes in the myocardium. Ultimately such persons may suffer from cardiac dilatation, and present signs and symptoms practically identical with those so commonly seen in the over-worked and under-fed aged labourer. (10) Habits.—From what has already been stated the bearing of habits on cardiac health cannot be forgotten. Bad habits, hygienically speaking, if they cannot be credited with directly engendering cardiac disease, at least oftentimes go far in exposing the subjects of them to the attacks of definite irritants. Errors of eating and drinking must be held