HEAET, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 79 responsible not only for such conspicuous con- ditions as "alcoholic " and "gouty" heart, but for many manifestations of malnutrition and a considerable number of the so-called fimctional derangements of the heart. Possibly the use of belts or constricting bodies may have exerted some influence, as was once thought, in the production of " soldier's heart." Tobacco and indulgence in snufF and certain drugs also exert an indirect influence in de- ranging the cardio-vascular mechanism. Reference may here also be made to habits which give rise to states of morbid excitement. In attacks of temper or conditions of worry or fright death may result from angina pectoris and syncope. Protracted emotion also exerts a prejudicial effect upon the heart and vessels. Sexual excesses may prove a not readily recog- nised cause of cardiac derangement. II. Morbid Processes Before describing the individual lesions met with in the more common cardiac affections, it will be desirable to consider briefly the essential nature of the morbid processes afl'ecting the cardiac structures. This constitutes what may be termed the general pathology of diseases of the heart. (1) Maldevelopment.—The normal process of cardiac evolution may be arrested or deranged and malformation or malposition result. These can only be interpreted by a reference to embryology. Although it is manifest that most congenital cardiac deficiencies are dependent on some interference with the development of the foetus, but little is known respecting the remote etiological factors. The oft-quoted influence of maternal impressions is little more than mythical. Congenital defects arising from fa^tal inflam- mation are more easily understood. An in- herited tendency to rheumatism or rheumatic fever in the mother may possibly lead to the establishment of an endocarditis in the embryo, but here also evidence is very uncertain. A consideration of the individual forms of cardiac malformation does not come within the scope of the present article, having been dis- cussed elsewhere. It is, however, necessary to observe that at no period of existence can the cardiac textures be considered free from the attacks of pathogenic excitants, or incapable of reacting thereto. In studying the forms of cardiac disease originating after birth, it is necessary to remember that the predisposing influence of a developmental aberration may play an important part. Thus malignant endocarditis not infrequently attacks a heart the subject of some slight anomaly in the number or size of the valves, or in the character of the septum. A hypoplasia of the heart has been claimed as a common association of chlorosis, and explanatory of certain features of the anfemic heart, but it is well to remember that in antemia the heart is often dilated. It only remains to add that congenital pro- cesses of disease, whether essentially of develop- mental origin or of the nature of a foetal inflammation, are capable of initiating a series of conditions which usually declare themselves by such striking featvu-es as cyanosis, blood alterations, various nutritional derangements, abnormal cardiac action, and occasionally dropsy. (2) Anaemia.—The integrity of the cardiac muscle is dependent upon an adequate supply of normally constituted blood. Conditions of cardiac bloodlessness may arise from local causes, or be a part of a general poverty of blood. In both cases the myocardium suffers. As it is the ofiice of the blood to convey nutri- ment to the cardiac textures, states of anaemia if prolonged are apt to lead to degradation of structure and impairment of function. In simple antemia the heart may be markedly involved. As already indicated, the cardio- vascular apparatus in chlorotic girls may be in a condition of subnormal development. The cardiac tissues are pale, often soft and flabby, diminished in size and consistency, and micro- scopically are usually found to be in a state of lowered activity, as indicated by the reaction of the protoplasm of the cells to staining reagents, or by changes indicative of its actual conversion into lower forms. In not a few cases of chlorosis distinct cardiac dilatation occurs. In pernicious ansemia the regressive changes become conspicuous, and fatty degeneration of the cardiac muscle may be manifest to the naked eye, as the so-called " tabby-cat stria- tion " or "thrush's breast" appearance. This irregular distribution contrasts strikingly with that of a localised anajmia due to limited vascular disease. Anjemic conditions also tend to produce a condition of hydraemic dropsy, and occasionally not only may slight effusion be met with in the pericardial sac, but a somewhat sodden and oedematous condition of the cardiac textures- generally may occur. Thus from general antemia and its immediate consequences serious cardiac derangements en- sue. Functional deficiencies are common, asthenic manifestations are easily brought out by slight effort, and dilatation of the ventricular cavities readily develops. Anajmia of local origin is almost always dependent on impairment of the blood-supph' from disease of the coronary arteries. At all events from a practical standpoint, the coronary arteries are to be considered as terminal vessels. This seems to be particularly the case as regards the important papillary nuiscles. Obstruction to the lumen, thickening of the walls, or com- pression of the vessels from without, inevitably lead to profound nutritional changes which, while starting as a simple local antemia, quickly