29 H^MIN and glacial acetic acid and evaporating; its chemical formula is believed to be CggHjgN^Fe O3HCI; its crystals are black in colour and rhombic in shape; and its formation is used as a test for blood stains. See Medicine, Forensic [Blood Stains, Hcumin Crystal Test); Physi- ology, Blood {Cells of Blood, Chemistry). Haemochromatosis.—A morbid con dition in which there is extensive pigmentation of the body, with secondary cirrhosis of the liver and pancreas ; there is marked destruction of red blood corpuscles and cachexia; it is prob- ably the same disease as diabetic cirrhosis ("ciVrAose pigmentaire"). See Liver, Diseases of {Arteriosclerosis of Hepatic Artery, Hyper- trophic Biliary Cirrhosis, Pigmentation of the Liver). HaeinOChromOgen.—Reduced alka- line h«3matin. See Physiology, Blood {Cells of Blood, Chemistry); Pigments op the Body AND Excreta {Hcemochromogen). Haemochromometer.—An instru- ment for determining the amount of haemoglobin in the blood by the tint of the latter. HasmOCyanin. — The respiratory pig- ment of the blood of some Crustacea and molluscs {e.g. the Octopus); it contains copper. HaemocytolysiS.—A breaking down of the red blood cells. HaemOCytometer. — An instrument for estimating the number of blood corpuscles per cubic millimetre. See Blood {Enumeration of Corpuscles, Thoma-Zeiss and Oliver Hmmocyto- meters); Physiology, Blood {Cells, Red, Enu- meration). HasmOCytOZOOn. — A parasitic pig- mented protozoon found in the blood corpuscles in malaria. See Malaria {Parasitology); Micro- organisms {Protozoa). Haemodynamometer.—An instru- ment, such as Oliver's, for determining the blood pressure; a blood-pressure gauge. See Pulse {Measurement of Arterial Pressure in Man). Haemoferrum.—A preparation of an iron-containing proteid used in anaemia, chlorosis, etc. See Chlorosis {Treatment). Hasmog'alloi.—An iron-containing pre- paration used in anaemia; it is made from the oxidation of hajmoglobin. Haemog'lobin. /S'ee Anemia, Pernicious {Symptoms, Percentage of Haimoglobin); Blood {Methods of Clinical Examination, Estimation of Haemoglobin); Chlorosis {Pathology); Liver, Physiology op {Elimi-nation of Haimoglobin); Meteorology {High Altitudes, Effect on amount of Haemoglobin); Physiology, Blood {Cells, Red, Pigment of); Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Haemoglobin and its Derivatives); Spectroscope in Medicine {Absorption Spectra of Pigments); Urine, Pathological Changes IN {Proteids, Haemoglobin); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Sediments, Haemoglobin Casts). Haemoglobinaemia. —Existence of the haemoglobin of the blood in a state of solu- tion in the serum. See H^emoglobinuria {Definition). Haemog^lobinometer. — An instru- ment for estimatino; the amount of hicmoglobin in the blood ; in addition to the haemoglobino- meters already described {v. Blood, Estimation of Haemoglobin), that invented by Haldane is worthy of mention. In order to obtain an un- alterable standard colour Haldane has substi- tuted for the picrocarmine jelly of Gower's instrument a solution of carbonic oxide htemo- globin, which remains stable for an indefinite time. The technique is the same as in using Gower's instrument, with the exception that the oxyhaemoglobin of the blood examined is converted into carbonic oxide haemoglobin by allowing coal gas to act upon it. The instru- ment permits of considerably more accurate readings than the ordinary Gower's haemo- globinometer. Haemog'lobin uria. Definition ...... 29 Toxic H/emoglobinuria .... 30 Febrile „,,.... 30 HiEMOGLOBINURIA IN LoWER AnIMALS . 30 Infantile H^emoglobinuria ... 30 Paroxysmal „ „ . . . 31 Pathology ..... 33 Treatment ..... 35 Hemoglobinuria from Exertion . . 35 See also Blackwater Fever ; Labour, Opera- tions {Induction of Premature Labour, Glycerine Injections); New - born Infant ( WincheVs Dis- ease, Hcemoglobinuria Neonatorum); Parasites {Hxmosporidia, Hoemoglobinuria of the Ox); Rabies {Symptoms, Urine); Raynaud's Dis- ease {Complications, Paroxysmal Hemoglobin- uria) ; Transfusion {Dangers); Tropics, Un- classed Fevers op {HcBmoglobinuric Fever). The term haemoglobinuria is used to designate the passage of urine containing free oxy- or methaemogiobin in solution, or in the form of granular debris, as distinguished from haema- turia, the passage of urine mixed with blood. It is the outward manifestation of hacmo- globinaemia, by which is meant the presence of free haemoglobin in the blood-plasma. Ponfick has shown that if a solution of hasmo- globin, or laked blood, be injected into the circulation of an animal, until a certain propor-