468 INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS content, which accompanies cerebral activities, is as real as that which we recognise as having to do with a toe or a finger. And, as the mass of these unlocated cerebral facts multiplied, men and women — or at least some of them — have come to regard their spiritual selves as them- selves and their bodies as secondary. Character or personality has evolved ever since that time. With the spiritiial aspect of such an evolution we have nothing now to do. Our bvisiness is to remember that every tradition appropriate to the race has had a nervous structure to cor- respond with it in the brain of each individual who accepted it; and so also with every personal experience. At school, in the family, at college, in the workshop, traditional discipline is constantly at work, and but for the force of individuality, moulds all men and women to something very near a given pattern. And as men think, they choose as a rule the kind of life which their training has suggested, with just a slight modification due to the personal equation, so strengthening by act of will the force of education. All that process simply implies a very definite and very stereotyped kind of nervous differentiation. It implies that in each individual the great mass of cerebral activities hardly come into contact with person- ality at all ; and, conversely, that those activities which the man selects as appropriate to himself become strongly integrated. A man's brain is commanded by the functions to which he de- votes his attention. And such a stability is to be expressed physiologically in terms of inhibi- tion. Inhibition is a nervous process which we all recognise in what we may call its focal form in such mechanisms as control cardiac, respira- tory, cystic, and rectal movements. In these an isolated and recognisable group of cells and fibres control the activities within their physio- logical sphere of influence. But the process is one which pervades the whole central nervous system. Indeed we cannot understand cortical development and integration at all except as a serial evolution of one function after another, each having a sphere of influence in which subordinate mechanisms are under its control. And in the mechanisms of the stable mind this process is one in which every cerebral activity which comes within the province of the intelli- gence is under the inhibition of the centres which represent personality. We are now, then, in a position to state less vaguely the relation of personality to subcon- sciousness— a conception without which, or some substitute for it, any general understand- ing of sane or insane life is impossible. Subconsciousness is that whole mass of cere- bral activity to which the mind does not attend. At any given moment that is nearly everything that is occurring in the brain. By means of attention the mind handles, so to speak, one of the brain threads at a time, or several in very quick succession, does something with each, and drops it again. Some parts of subconsciousness never come within attention at all; some come once into it and never again ; some are very fre- quently there. Further, the mass and kind of subconsciousness varies with different constitu- tions. And it varies, and the mind's relation to it varies, with individual experience and habit. The essential point is, however, that at the moment of contact, when the mind is con- scious of a cerebral activity (not locating it), something happens. As the mind moves along a train of thought, for example, the thread of cerebral activity which it pursues is not left the same as before. Next time it comes into con- sciousness it is different. The irrelevant and casual things to which we attend we need not now consider, except to say that their subconscious existence explains, for example, a vast deal of the sayings and doings of the delirious and of the insane, who fetch forth from their recesses many strange and hidden and sometimes horrid things with which their friends never knew them to be acquainted. But a great deal of life is consecutive and coherent, and becomes woven into the personality. To become concrete, take the commonest and the average personality whose central feeling and idea and purpose con- cern themselves with livelihood. At the founda- tion of that there is the domestic consciousness —wife and children, the hearth, bread and butter. For that there is certainly a cerebral mechanism—a centre diffuse in form, but defi- nite in structure. We have not located it yet, but surmise that it is in the prse-frontal region —the area for the images of acts; for personality is determined by its expression of itself—what a man conceives of himself as doing and saying. All consecutive experience then comes into rela- tion with the man's notion of livelihood. From religion to silly pleasures the criterion of their effect upon his position and comfort and pros- pects is the constant one by which the man gauges things. And that means a great integration as well as a great spread of mechanisms. The pro- cess is one which occurs to some degree in every mind, for even the most versatile have one or a very few notions to which they most attend. All through life, then, one activity after another is coming into relation with these highest and most central mechanisms. Each point of con- tact modifies both. On the one hand, the primary mechanism is modified, extending its fibres so as to meet and, if all goes well, bring that other within its sphere of influeiice. On the other hand, the secondary mechanism is modified conversely, just to the extent to which it has been subordinated to the primary centre. A sane and successful life is one in which every conscious experience enlarges the range and adds to the power of the organs of personality. The occasions of insanity, over and above the organic causes which interfere with nutrition, are those