HYSTERIA 311 nate. After some little repose the patient can resume his ordinary occupations. Varieties of Attacks. — In many cases the attack is not always typical; it is often modified either by the predominance of one period which obliterates the others, or by the accession of foreign elements. To illustrate, the aura may supervene without loss of consciousness, and may be marked by a crisis of palpitation or of suffocation, or sometimes by hydrophobic phenomena. The epileptoid attack sometimes simulates epilepsy, more especially as to fre- quency of attacks; or again it resembles Jacksonian epilepsy. Certain subjects suffer from vertigo like epileptics, and in some cases the vertigo simulates Meniere's vertigo. The phenomena may be limited to those characteristic of the second period, namely, to the convulsive stage, and it is to this form of attack that maniacal excesses belong. In the third period the emotional attitudes always present the form of ecstatic emotion. In the fourth period the terminal delirium may present itself under various guises, to which the name of folies hysteriques has been given. These last appear in somnambulistic form, and are always identical in the same patient. Lastly, the sub- jects may feel themselves impelled to exhibit the phenomena of ambulatory automatism. We must also refer to the fits of sleep which simu- late coma, but are distinguished by the rigidity of the limbs and by trismus; they are attended by difficulty in breathing, which may be quickened or suspended, or assume the Cheyne- ytokes rhythm. During this sleep the patient hears sounds, but is incapable of response. This hysterical sleep may be compared to attacks of pseudo-syncope and hysterical fainting fits, and to the irresistible tendency to sleep which is so difficult to distinguish from narcolepsy. In several cases the attack resembles an apoplectic fit {apoplexie hysterie), and is accompanied by a hemiplegia either fleeting or permanent. Sensory Disorders Sensory disorders constitute one of the invari- able and most conclusive symptoms in the dia- gnosis of the neurosis ; they affect equally the mucous membrane, the skin, and special senses ; sometimes by the diminution or abolition of sensibility, sometimes by hyperexcitability or hypersesthesia. A. Anaesthesia.—Anaesthesia has been long- known. Witch-hunters and magistrates in the Middle Ages searched with care for "diabolic stigmata " in persons accused of sorcery, but it is only in modern times that the true signifi- cance of stigmata has been proved. The anaes- thesia shows itself in 60 per cent of cases, but though a common symptom it is variable, and is sometimes complete, sometimes incomplete. Pitres has shown by the following table its different degrees:— 1. Total, beaiiuff t, s i i ..i • i on ail the sen I ^^'^ Complete anaesthesia, pro])erly scry tions. so called. peicep I luoomplete hypoaesthesia. Partial, bearing only on certain sensory per- ceptions, the others not being affected. (a) Loss of the sensations of pain, with the preservation of the tactile sensations: Analgesia. (b) Loss of the sensations of move- ment, preserving the tactile and painful sensations : Thermuancesth esia. (c) Loss of the tactile and painful sensations, preserving those of movement: Anccsthcsia with Thermoanesthesia, id) The isolated loss of electric sensations : ElectroancBS- thesia. (c) The preserving alone of the electric sensations : Anaes- thesia with Elcctroanaisthesia. From a topographical point of view anaes- thesia assumes different forms. In exceptional cases it may spread over the whole surface of the body; generally it is partial and confined to one side of the body, and is then hemianes- thesia, which has a marked predilection for the left side, being three times more frequent on the left than on the right side; sometimes it appears in islets, insular anaesthesia ; and lastly, it may be segmentary. It may be superim- posed on paralysis or contracture, affecting a limb or portions of a limb. Like other hysterical phenomena anaesthesia is variable, and may be spontaneously modified either by some cutaneous irritant, such as electric currents, blistering, etc., or in a convulsive crisis by a suggestion or effort to pay attention. Hysterical anaesthesia in contrast to organic anaesthesia is compatible with the normal exercise o*' most of the reflex actions. The patellar reflexes, cremasteric and abdominal of Rossbach, are generally preserved, so also is the pupillary reflex action. Pricks practised on the level of the anaesthetised region are not attended with a flow of blood, but an appearance of a red aureola sets in, like nettle- rash, followed by a flow of limpid serum. Hysterical anaesthesia has another distinctive characteristic; it is attended with no conscious pain to the patient. The results obtained by an exhaustive diagnosis frequently differ even in the same subject; hysterical patients comport themselves like malingerers. Anaesthesia of mucous membranes is frequent, being exhibited mainly in the mouth and pharynx, and to a less extent in the genital and anal mucous surfaces. Ocular Ancesthesia is the commonest form of sensory anaesthesia. It may result in the sudden total loss of vision in one or both eyes, but this is rare ; more frequently it causes no subjective visual disorder, but there is sometimes a central scotoma or even temporary liemiopia. On ob- jective examination there is always found a restriction of the field of vision; this is con- centric in character, in some cases symmetrical.