194 HERNIA been made by many of the more ardent surgeons in a reference to statistics, showing that the mortahty after resection is less than after the formation of an artificial anus. Thus in 394 cases of gangrene that I have tabulated, where an artificial anus was made, 30-7 per cent of patients recovered. In 443 cases of primary resection 53'9 per cent recovered, a difierence of more than 20 per cent in favour of resection. Nothing covdd be more misleading than this argument. Resection is done in the less severe cases by siirgeons adept and skilful in manipula- tion, with the most desirable surroundings and with adequate help. A surgeon who resected intestine in a moribund patient could have no sense of the fitness of things. In such a case the laying open of the gut would be performed to give the patient a last, slender chance ; if death followed it would be due to the delay, not to the method. I hold the argument from statistics, therefore, as not valid, though it supports the method which is ideally the better. There are certain circumstances under which enterectomy, v/ith stitching of the divided ends, could not be legitimately performed. These are— (a) When the patient is profoundly collapsed from septic poisoning, almost pulseless and moribund; or aged, bronchitic, or otherwise in bad condition. {f3) Where prolongation of the operation would add a serious risk, as in cases where a large segment of gut is involved (as much as 6 feet has, howevei', been successfully removed). (y) Where strangulation has been of long duration. After 3-4 days' obstruction resection is rarely successful. In such cases the distension of the gut above the constriction is considerable, and the bowel does not lend itself readily to successful suture. When, however, one meets with a case of recent, limited gangrene in a young, otherwise healthy subject, not exhausted by vomiting nor collapsed by the absorption of poisonous material, resection will find its most successfid applica- tion. The disadvantages of the method in which an artificial anus are formed are neither few nor inconsiderable. Briefly they are :— (a) The possibility of the continuance of •symptoms of acute obstruction, a possibility by no means remote, if the stricture is not adequately divided. (/?) Septic infection from the wound in the gut or from the sac spreading to the peritoneum, or infecting a wide area surrounding the open- ing. (y) The opening in the gut may be liigh up in the small intestine, and inanition may ensue. (8) The necessity of a second operation, which is not without its own mortality. We arc not, however, in a position to say that the application of either method should be un- varying. Each has its uses. No hard and fast rule can be made; the surgeon can only be guided by the general principles laid down; the decision he makes will depend upon his own resourcefulness, and his readiness and capacity to appreciate the relative value of many signs. Complications of Strangulated Hernia. — Among the more important of these may be mentioned— 1. The persistence of symptoms after reduction^ due to— (a) False Reduction, complete or incomplete {see page 191). (Ij) Acute enteritis in the snared loop leading to paralysis, and going on perhaps to ulceration, gangrene, or perforation. (c) Acute peritonitis from infection by the damaged gut or by the escape of infected fluid from the sac. {d) The existence of acute strangulation, apart from the hernial protrusion, or connected with it. (e) The existence of another hernia, femoral, obturator, etc., which is strangled. (/) The existence of a condition where symptoms are mistaken for strangulation in a hernia, e.g. lead poisoning. If (A) or (c) are present the abdomen should be opened; if the former condition is found an artificial anus should be made ; if the latter, the cavity may be flushed and drained. 2. Affections of the Lungs.—Pneumonia and bronchitis are seen, not infrequently, in cases of strangulated hernia both before and after reduction. Verneuil, in 1881, called attention to an intense pulmonary hypersemia as a factor in causing death. Gussenbauer regarded the condition of the hnigs as the result of infective embolism from the mesenteric vessels; Lesshaft suggested that infection was probably conveyed by inhaled particles of putrid vomit, especially during anaisthesia. The signs of pulmonary trouble do not, as a rule, become manifest till 12, 24, or 36 hours after reduction. There is at the first some respiratory concern, hardly amounting to diffi- culty, a little hurry in the rate of breathing, a trifling elevation of temperature. In a few hours all these conditions are accentuated, and pneumonia, usually of a very aggressive type, is developed. The investigations into the bacteriology of strangulated hernia are of interest in this connection (see page 190). As more or less remote sequehe of strangulated hernia should be mentioned stricture of the intestine iji the strangled loop, and acute intestinal obstruction from the formation of peritoneal adhesio7is. Inguinal Hernia Inguinal Hernia is by far the most common form of hernia met with. According to Macready, in 100 men ruptured, 97*5 per cent have inguinal