18 H^MATOIDIN {Decomposition of Hcemoglobin); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Bile, FigtJients); Pigments OF THE Body and Excreta. HaematOlOg^y.—The science of the blood both in its normal state and in pathological conditions. Hasma.toma.. See Aneurysm {Intra- mural lloematoma, Arterial Hamiatoma) ; Aneurysm {Subclavian, Hmnatomata); Axilla {Injuries, Hcematoma); Broad Ligament, Diseases of {Ncematorna); Burs^e, Injuries and Diseases of {Injuries); Contusions {Mo7-bid Anatomy, Hcematoma); Head {Injuries of Scalp, Cephalhcematoma); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Podalic Lies, Hcematoma of Infants Sterno-Mastoid); Labour, Post-partum Haemorrhage {Traumatic, Hiematoma Vaglnce) ; Labour, Injuries to Generative Organs {Ex- ternal Organs, Vulvar Hcematoma); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Mastitis); Meninges of THE Cerebrum {Anatomy, Hcematoma of the Dura Mater); Muscles, Diseases of the {Rupture); Neck, Region of {Tumours, Sterno- Mastoicl Hcematoma); New - born Infant {Cephalhaematoma, Hcematoma of Sterno-Mastoid Muscle); Orbit, Diseases of {Injuries of Soft Parts); Ovaries, Diseases {Complications of Ovariotomy, Hcematoma); Pelvis, H^ematocele and Hcematoma ; Peritoneum, Tumours op {Hfematomata); Pharynx, Examination {Hcemor- rhages); Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Hmmatoma); Purpura {Cutaneous Hcernorrhage); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases {Hcematoma of Cord); Vagina, Disorders of {Injuries, Hcema- toma). Hsematoma Auris. Conditions of Occurrence. . . .18 Clinical Features . . . . .18 Mc/rbid Anatomy . . . . .19 Etiology 19 Onset apart from Insanity ... 20 Relation to Microbic Infection ... 20 Prognosis . ... . . .20 Treatment . . . . .21 See also Ear, External, Diseases of {Auricle, Hcematoma); Insanity, Pathology of {Patho- logical Anatomy). Conditions of Occurrence.—Hseinatoma auris, otherwise known as othsematoma, or the insane ear, occurs in its typical form in persons of unsound mind. A few instances have been recorded of the occurrence of an apparently similar condition iniassociated with insanity, but in all probability either these cases are purely traumatic in origin, and therefore essen- tially dissimilar, or the patients are of degenerate habits, and mentally not far removed from the overtly insane. The broad fact remains that it is in lunatic asylums that the great majority of such cases are found. Even among the insane, however, only a certain small proportion suffer,, estimated by Lennox Bi'owne at 2'24 per cent,, by Campbell at 2-23 per cent, and by Langdon Down as high as 3'6 per cent of male congenital idiots. It may be noted that these figures over- estimate rather than under-estimate the average frequency in most modern asylums. The number of men affected is relatively greater than the number of women. A somewhat peculiar and inexplicable fact is that the left ear is much more commonly involved than the right. Moreover, when both ears are implicated, as they are in about one-third of the total mnnber of cases, it is the left which is usually first affected. There is no particular form of insanity ex- clusively associated with othsematoma. It has been foiuid in all the more common varieties, but there is some difference of opinion concerning the types with which it is especially correlated. Clouston states that it is very common in general paralysis, and is sometimes seen in bad cases of mania of the chronic variety, sometimes in chronic epileptics, occasionally in agitated and convulsive melancholia, and rarely in dementia. Lennox Browne found that it occurred for the most part in patients subject to attacks of a violent and paroxysmal character. Out of thirty-two cases collected by him, seventeen suffered from mania acute or chronic, eight from general paralysis, five from epilepsy, and only two from dementia (not epileptic). Langdon Down, in noting its frequency in male congenital idiots, states that it is rare in female idiots and in accidental idiocy, that it may be found in idiocy arising from developmental causes, but almost never when the cause is operative in the early days of post-uterine life. The majority of idiots whom he observed to be subject to othfe- matomata were also epileptic, and in all the element of excitement was excessive. Clinical Features.—Othpematoma of the insane first appears as a swelling in the external eai', and is almost invariably limited to the car- tilaginous portion. It starts most commonly in the helix, and may then be bounded by the line of the anti-helix, or may extend more widely. Less frequently it begins elsewhei'e, as in the concha or fossa triangularis, and only very rarely in the external auditory meatus. In its earliest stage there occurs a small, somewhat red or livid, tense, cystic swelling which tends to increase more or less rapidly, until in the course of a few days it attains the size of a hazel nut or a hen's egg. The surface may be quite smooth, or may retain traces of the ridges in the fossa of the helix. Some irritation and discomfort are usually present, but seldom actual pain, and there are no subjective auditory symptoms such as deafness or tinnitus unless the external meatus is implicated. If proper treatment be withiield the cyst continues to en- large, and may ultimately rupture, discharging