276 HYDROCEPHALUS hydrocephalus) which he drained. The patient died in four days. Kendal Franks tapped a ventricle with temporary improvement, but death occurred in four days, which seems about the usual time. In this case the ventricle, after death, contained but little fluid, but there was a purulent basal tubercular meningitis. Wheel- house had a similar experience. Jacobson, to whom we owe several of these references, quotes a case of Broca's, in which drainage appears to have been successful up to the fiftieth day, when the wound was healed and the child discharged. The operation of Parkin already described was performed on a child of eleven months with chronic hydrocephalus. The child was becoming comatose, but after eighteen days' drainage recovered and became more intelligent than it had been before the onset of the acute symptoms. The plan would apparently be applicable to cases in which the foramen of Majendie was closde by adhesions. Sutherland and Watson Cheyne {Clin. Soc. Transactions, vol. xxxi.) devised and carried out a plan of draining the ventricles into the subdural space. An opening was made in the left lateral angle of the anterior fontanelle (the child was six months old), and a bundle of fine catgut tied together at one end was passed into the subdural space, the other end of the bundle was by means of sinus forceps carried into the lateral ventricle, and the wound closed. The size of the head diminished steadily, and for a time the child did well, but a convulsion came on after the first month, and after nine weeks it began to go downhill, and died three months after operation, with I'apid wasting, screaming, and opisthotonos. The shrinkage in size of the head was remarkable, and good drainage had been apparently established. The principle of the operation in establishing drainage and preventing intraventricular pressure is good, and the operation is apparently very simple. The length of drain should be only sufficient to project \ inch into the ventricle. The child was syphilitic, but the plan, though not ultimately successful, is more promising than the other methods devised, except, perhaps, that of Parkin. In this case, as in so many other operations, craniectomy, simple tapping, and so on, the temperature rose high at first, nearly to 106°, but subsided gradually, and was clearly not due to septicity. Starr (Brain Surgery) records some other cases of operation for hydrocephalus. In 1898, Bruce and Stiles (Brit. Med. Jour., 29th Jan. 1898) treated a congenital syphilitic child of thirteen years suff'ering from basal meningitis and severe and increasing symptoms of intra- cranial pressure by an operation like that of Parkin's, except that the opening was made in the middle line, and included the margin of the foramen magnum. On separating the amygdala a large quantity of fluid escaped and continued to drain away. The child improved, but died after fifteen days of hyperpyrexia, possibly the result of renal disease. On the whole it is probably best, in any case with progressive symptoms, to try either Cheyne's or Parkin's method. Hydrochloric Acid. See also Diges- tion AND Metabolism (Gastric, Secretion); In- digestion (Acidity); CEsophagus (Inflammation, Causes); Physiology, Food and Digestion (Gastric); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OF (Gastritis) ; Toxicology (Inorganic Poisons, Corrosives). Acidum Hydrochloricum. HCl. A clear colourless fuming liquid, obtained by dissolving in water the fumes produced by the action of sulphuric acid on sodium chloride. Contains 31-79 per cent of hydrogen chloride. Preparations—1. Acidum Hydrochloricum Dilutum (contains 10'58 per cent of hydrogen chloride). Dose—5-20 m. 2. Acidum Nitro- hydrochloricum Dilutum. Nitric acid, 3; hydrochloric acid, 4 ; distilled water, 25. Dose— 5-20 m. Pure hydrochloric acid has a caustic action when applied to skin or mucous membrane, but as it is the weakest of the mineral acids it is hardly ever employed as an escharotic. In very dilute solutions it may be used as a refrigerant lotion in febrile conditions. Internally the dilute forms are prescribed for their action on primary digestion. They stimulate the flow of saliva and are also said to increase the amount of bile. Their effect on the secretion of hydro- chloric acid in the stomach depends on whether they are given before or after a meal. When the stomach is empty they are said to diminish the formation of hydrochloric acid and are therefore indicated in dyspepsias associated with acid eructations and heartburn. Given after a meal they simply augment the acidity of the gastric contents and are given where dyspepsia is due to deficient secretion. Small doses are recommended in typhoid and other febrile con- ditions, the natural secretion of acid being defective when the temperature is raised. HydrocirSOCeie.—A combination of hydrocele with varicocele. Hydrocyanic Acid. See also Breath (Odour of); Toxicology (Cyanogen Com- pounds). Prussic Acid. Acidum Ilydrocyani- cum Dilutum, containing 2 per cent by weight of hydrogen cyanide, is the official form. It is a colourless, volatile, unstable liquid with an almond-like odour. Dose—2-6 m. Preparation —Tinctura Chloroformi et Morphiufe Composita, an imitation of chlorodyne, each 10 m. contain- ing ^ m. of dilute hydrocyanic acid. Dose— 5-15 m. Hydrocyanic Acid is also contained in Aqua Laurocerasi and in oil of bitter almonds. Hydrocyanic acid is useful locally as a sedative