HEMOPTYSIS 38 Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Chronic, Clinical Phenomena); Chest, Injuries of (Viscera, Lungs, Hoemoptysis); Children, Clinical Ex- amination of {Respiratory System, Sputuvi); Gout {Irregular, Respiratory System, Hamiopj- tysis); HiEMATBMESis {Diagnosis); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symptomato- logy, Pulmonary Conditions, Embolism); Hys- teria {Respiratory Disorders); Lung, Tubercu- losis OF {Clinical Features, Lung Symptoms, Haemoptysis); Lungs, Gangrene of {Symi^toms, Haemoptysis); Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Pulmonary Embolism, Clinical Features) ; Lungs, Parasitic Affections of {Aspergillosis); Pneumonia, Clinical {Clinical Features, Spu- tum) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and Seqttelae). Definition.—The expectoration of blood from the lungs or lower air-passages (larynx, trachea, and bronchi). Pathogenesis.—The older writers were in the habit of using the terms Bronchorrhagia and Pneumorrhagia as signifying in the one case effusion from the bronchial mucous membrane, and in the other escape of blood from the pul- monary vessels proper. Laennec ^\'as of opinion that slight htemoptyses were bronchial in origin, while all grave ha3morrhages were due to pul- monary apoplexy, the result of vascular tension in the lungs themselves. In this he was in error. Pulmonary apoplexy is due to em- bolism, and is a comparatively rare cause of htemoptysis. All pathological evidence goes to prove that in the vast majority of cases of hcemoptysis— both slight and severe—the pulmonary and not the bronchial vessels are to be regarded as the source of the ha3morrhage. This is only what we would theoretically expect when we consider how badly supported the pulmonary vessels are as compared with those of the bronchial mucous membrane. The htemorrhage itself is due either to escape of blood by diapedesis, the result of active or passive hypersemia of the pulmonary, and to a much less extent of the bronchial capil- laries ; or, on the other hand, to rupjture of a blood-vessel, generally a branch of the pulmonary artery, the result of some pathological condition {e.g. ulceration or aneurysm) of the vascular wall. Etiology.—A. Diseases of the Lungs.—Pul- mcmary Tuberculosis.—This, especially in its more chronic forms, is by far the most important cause of pulmonary hcemorrhage. Sir Thomas Watson says : " If a person spits up blood who has received no injury to the chest, in whom the uterine functions are healthy, and who has no disease of the heart, the odds that there are tubercles in the lungs of that person are fearfully high." Hiemoptysis occurs in about 60 per cent of all cases of pulmonary tuberculosis; the Inpatient Bromptoii Report gives 62 per cent; Dr. Williams (1000 private cases) gives 57 per cent; Dr. Wilson Fox, 54 per cent. Of 200 successive cases admitted by the writer into Brompton Hospital, htemoptysis occurred in 70 per cent. It is extremely rare as a symptom of acute miliary tuberculosis. Htemoptysis occur- ring in pulmonary tuberculosis is due to one of the following causes :— (1) Hypermnia and Rupture of Capillaries.— Occurs mainly in the early stages of tuberculosis. Such htemorrhages are usually very slight, and are indicative of congestive and inflammatory states of the pulmonary tissue. Dr. Kingston Fowler regards capillary hajmorrhage as prob- ably the cause of the streaks and small blood- clots which appear from time to time in the sputum in the course of chronic pulmonary tuberculosis. (2) Tubercular Infiltration tvith subsequent Ulceration and Perforation of a Branch of the Pulmonary Artery.—Tubercle bacilli have been demonstrated by Koch, Weigert, and Percy Kidd in the thickened and infiltrated vessel walls in connection with commencing caseation. The ulcerative process occasionally leads to per- foration of an artery of some magnitude, and in this way may induce very profuse haemorrhage. This is probably the cause of the severe htemop- tyses which occasionally occur in the earlier stages of pulmonary tuberculosis, particularly when associated with rapid caseation. Fortu- nately such a result is comparatively rare, owing to the fact that closiu'e of the vessel by thrombosis and endarteritis obliterans generally takes place. In the more rapid forms of tuber- culosis, the vascular wall becomes softened and infiltrated before the thrombotic process is com- plete, and rupture takes place, the vessel being- no longer able to withstand the force of the blood pressure within. (3) Rupture of a,n Aneurysm of a Branch of the Pulmonary Artery.—This is by far the most common cause of profuse haemoptysis, and occurs most frequently in the stage of excava- tion. In 30 out of 35 consecutive fatal cases occurring at Brompton Hospital, Dr. Percy Kidd traced the source of the bleeding to ruptured pul- monary aneurysms, while in3 out of theremaining 5 unruptured aneurysms were discovered. These aneurysms, which are usually the size of a large pea or hazel nut, but which may reach the size of a walnut or even larger, are most commonly found where an artery passes along the wall of a cavity. The vessel wall, which may be softened by tubercular infiltration, bulges on the side next the cavity where it is not supported by lung tissue. Very rarely the vessel may be seen to bulge into the lumen of a bronchus. Occasionally an aneurysm has been found in a caseous patch which is undergoing softening. The aneurysms are usually round and sacculated, but may be fusiform or irregu- lar. Very occasionally they contain laminated