HERNIA 200 compiled notes of 87 herniotomies for inguinal, 11 for umbilical, and 1 for femoral hernia. To this already comprehensive list Stern added 51 later cases of inguinal and 3 of umbilical hernia. It is remarkable that operations are more frequently called for during the earlier months of childhood than during the later. The greatest number occur in the first, second, and third months of the first year. The proportion after this period diminishes very rapidly, as is shown by comparing in a tabular form the cases operated upon in each of the first twelve months. During the 1st month 16 cases occurred. 2nd „ 15 „ 3rd „ 14 4th „ 9 5th „ 4 6th „ 7 7th ,, 3 „ 8th „ 6 „ ,, 9th ,, 9 ,, „ 10th „ 3 „ „ 11th „ 3 „ 12th „ 4 The symptoms and the signs are similar to those already described as being present in adults. In nearly all the recorded cases re- tention of urine has been observed. Treatment.—If careful taxis prove unavailing, resort will be had to operation, which is carried out as in adults. In young children a "radical cure " is generally effected by the simple removal of the sac. Sudden death after operation without evident or sufficient cause has been noticed by several surgeons. Femoral Hernia Femoral or Crural Hernia (merocele) escapes from the abdomen at the crural ring, passes down the crural canal and emerges upon the thigh through the saphenous opening. It is only very rarely congenital in origin. The crural ring is marked on the abdominal aspect by a slight depression, the fovea femoral is, and is closed by a specialised portion of the sub- peritoneal tissue, containing a lymphatic gland, knowii as the " septum crurale" of Cloquet. The ring is bounded in front by the superficial and deep crural arches, behind by the pubic bone covered by the pectineus and the pectineal fascia, to the outer side by the inner partition of the crural sheath which separates the ring from the external iliac vein, to the inner side by Gimbernat's ligament and tlie other fibrous structvu'cs attached to the ilio-pectineal line. Tlie epigastric artery is placed at the upj)er and outer portion of the ring, and the pubic branch of tliis vessel runs transversely inwards to (iimbcmat's ligament. In about 30 per cent of cases the obturatf)r artery arises from the epigastric and may then pass down on the outer side of the ring (54 per cent), directly aci-oss the ring (37 per cent), or on the fi-ont and inner side of the ring (9 per cent). The iipper part of the pectineal fascia is considerably strengthened by a tough white band of dense fibrous tissue running along the ilio-pectineal line ; some of these fibres are con- tinued into Gimbernat's ligament, and others pass across the middle line and meet those of the opposite side. This band is known as Cooper's ligament, or the ligament of the pubis. The crural canal is about half an inch in length. In front of it the upper margin of the saphenous opening arches inwards to join Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligaments. That portion of the upper edge lying internal to the femoral vein is known as Hey's ligament or the femoral ligament. A hernia passing along the canal descends at first vertically, but on reaching the saphenous opening it bulges forwards, and afterwards tends to enlarge in an upward and outward direction. The coverings of a femoral hernia are skin, superficial fascia, cribriform fascia, the femoral sheath, the septum crurale and subperitoneal tissue, and the peritoneum. The femoral sheath and the septum crurale are generally blended into one firm layer described by Cooper as the " fascia propria." Femoral hernia is more common in the female than the male, probably because the pelvis is proportionately wider and the crural ring actu- ally larger than in the male. The symptoms of the rupture are similar to those present in cases of inguinal hernia, but are of a distinctly less aggressive type. A femoral hernia may pass quite unnoticed, especially in stout women, and indeed the abdomen may be opened upon a diagnosis of acute obstruction when the symptoms are due to a strangulated femoral partial enterocele of inconspicuous size. Differential Diagnosis. — The diagnosis of femoral from inguinal hernia has already been discussed. The other conditions simulating femoral hernia are— Adenitis.—A single enlarged femoral gland placed over the saphenoiis opening may very closelj^ simulate an irreducible epiplocele. Such a gland is superficial, movable from side to side, and has no deep attachment; in all these points differing from a rupture. Varix of the Saphena Vein.—A varix occupies almost exactly the position of a femoral hernia, has an indistinct impulse on coughing, increases in size upon standing, and is reducible. The venous distension will, however, reappear on standing if pressure be kept up on the crural canal. As a general rule, there are other dila- tations of the veins of the leg and thigli on the same side. Hydrocele of a hernial sac.—This may very closely simulate a hernia, but the fluctuation and possible translucence are distinguishing