INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF 513 The greatest mistake of all is made when the melancholic is recommended a sea-voyage. Here he is placed in circumstances of dismal monotony, with the temptation to suicide constantly pressed upon his attention. What wonder if he often succumbs ? Regulation of Control.—Having complied with the legal formalities, and released the patient from the obligation of regulating for himself the more elaborate portions at any rate of his con- duct, the next question in treatment that presents itself is, to what extent this release is to be given or this control to be exercised. This must depend upon the depth to which conduct is disordered. If only a superficial flake is peeled off from the upper strata of his capabilities, —• if, for instance, as sometimes happens, his conduct is disordered in certain social relations only, — if his conduct say towards the members of his family, or towards members of the other sex, or towards religious ceremonies, or towards children, or with respect to legal proceedings, is the only region in which his conduct is disordered—then there is no need to exercise control over him except with regard to the particular relation disordered. There is no reason why persons whose disorder of con- duct is limited to such particular divisions as those above specified should be deprived, for instance, of the management of their "estate," nor of other aspects of their affairs. The limi- tation of disorder of conduct and the limitation of control which logically follows upon it, are explicitly recognised both in English and Scotch law by provisions which allow the patient to retain the management of his other affairs, while he is deprived wholly or partly of the manage- ment of his estate; and there is no reason, save the difficulty of formulating in words the depart- ment of conduct disordered, and of precisely limiting the control to that department, why the principle should not be generally applied in statutory enactments. But if not applied in law, it can and ought to be applied in practice, and the principle upon which control should be exercised over lunatics should be, in all save acute and recent cases, that the control should extend over that region of conduct only which is disordered. This principle is already followed to some extent in practice, but it is followed partially, haltingly, and with no true perception of its full application. All patients who are detained as lunatics are not controlled in the same degree. Some are allowed their liberty on parole, others are not; some are allowed the restricted use of money, others are not; some are allowed to regulate their own costume in accordance with their own taste, others are not; most are allowed to take their own food in such quantities as they desire, others are forcibly fed; and other distinctions are in practice. But in most institutions and in every large institution there is a certain fixed maxi- VOL. IV mum of freedom which no patient is allowed to exceed, and this maximum is far too low, and is fixed without regard to the considerable class of patients whose activities need resti'icting in one direction only, and in different directions for each. To this rule, that conduct should not be con- trolled further than it is disordered, an exemp- tion has been made. In all acute and recent cases the control must be very complete; and this for several reasons. In the first place, until the patient has been under observation for some time it is not known with certainty how far conduct is in fact disordered. In the second place, it is in acute and recent cases tliat a principle already alluded to applies, viz. that the demand upon function shall be withdrawn very completely so as to leave the metabolic process at full liberty to restore the damaged structure. The validity of this exception is fully borne out in practice. It is found that in acute and recent cases the mere removal from home and compulsory detention among strangers has of itself, without further measures, a distinct ameliorative effect; and it is a well- established fact, known to all who have care of the insane, tliat during the early days of their malady the visits of relatives and friends with whom they are in habits of social intercourse has a detrimental effect. The beneficial influ- ence of detention under control is often ascribed to the mere change of surroundings of every kind which it usually involves, and it is probable that a part of this beneficial influence is cor- rectly so ascribed ; but it is probable also that in the presence of near relatives and customary friends the patient feels that the control over him is relaxed, and that he may venture upon a degree of self-assertion which in their absence he would not aspire to. Be the explanation what it may, the fact is indisputable that in recent and acute cases of insanity the mere removal from home and the detention under care have of themselves a beneficial effect, an effect which is at once neutralised for the time being by the visit of near relatives. Fortun- ately the ill effect of those visits does not usually endure. Sometimes the melancholic who has poured out his woes to his wife and has wept copiously over his imaginary troubles, will cheer up on the instant of her departure and join in amusements as heartily as he was doing when her visit was announced. More often it takes him a few hours to get over it, but I cannot say that I have observed any per- manent ill effect. It is in cases in which the disorder or defect of conduct is deepest, in which the most funda- mental and primary departments of conduct are affected, that the control must be most com- plete. Where the primary instinct of self-preser- vation is absent, or is reversed ; in the deeper forms of dementia, in which almost all forms of 33