HEAET, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCAEDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 93 than indicate stages, and all conditions may be met with in the same case. The valves are more particularly affected, but the chordte tendinete and parietal endocardium are frequently involved, and the process some- times extends into the aorta. The left side of the heart is generally affected, although the tricuspid and pulmonary valves may also be involved. Of the 65 Manchester cases, in only one instance was the malignant endocarditis limited to the right side. In 5 both right and left cavities were involved, the tricuspid and mitral in 2, and the tricuspid, mitral, and aortic in 2. In only one case were the pulmonary valves affected, and their vegetations were found in the pulmonary artery and right ventricle. In 17 the mitral segments were alone involved, in 18 the aortic. In 20 both aortic and mitral valves were the seat of vegetations. In a considerable number the process had extended from the valves and chordse tendinete to the adjacent parts. In several the wall of the left auricle was involved. In 4 cases vegetations were present in the aorta itself. In one they extended into the coronary artery. In another they surrounded the open- ing of one of the coronary vessels. As to the character of the lesions, in 25 there was extensive formation of vegetation, in 34 more or less ulcera- tion. In one there was local suppuration, and in another the mitral valve was the seat of an acute aneurysm. In at least one instance there was apparently recent calcareous deposition in the vegetations. The vegetations vary greatly in size and extent. Sometimes they are small and scanty, frequently they form large, irregular, peduncu- lated, shaggy masses. They are generally of a grey or pinkish-yellow colour, and often covered with blood-clot. Sometimes, as already indi- cated, they are the seat of a recent calcareous infiltration. The destructive character of the process is commonly indicated by the presence of ulcera- tion. Sometimes the ulcers are small and super- ficial ; more frequently they are large and deep, penetrating through the valves, extending to the chordae tendine£e, which are frequently eroded and ruptured, and sometimes penetrat- ing deeply into the myocardium. The vegetations are usually very irregular in arrangement, contrasting greatly with the more or less limited distribution of those in simple endocarditis. They frequently extend to the mitral endocardium, and particularly is this the case when the chordse tendineje of the anterior flap of the mitral are ulcerated through, abundant vegetation being then usually present on the posterior and outer part of the wall of the left auricle. Occasionally the vegetations extend up- wards along the aorta and pulmonary artery, and sometimes encroach upon the orifices, and even spread into the channels of the coronary vessels. Mural malignant endocarditis without involve- ment of the valves is almost unknown. Occasion- ally an aneurysm of a valve is produced. Some- times foci of suppuration occur in the valves, or small abscesses may form in the subendocai'dial and myocardial tissues. In this way cardiac aneurysm or even penetration and rupture of the heart may result. Secondary and Associated Lesions.—But the lesions noted in cases of malignant endocarditis must be carefully distinguished accordingly as they (i.) are primary and have preceded the endocarditis, or are (ii.) secondary and due to or associated with it. In the latter cases they will usually be the result of (1) embolism or (2) toxic absorption. The secondary lesions include infarction of the lungs, spleen, and kidneys; cerebral embolism and softening; embolic blocking of mesenteric vessels or peripheral arteries; and multiple hfemorrhages into the skin, serous membranes, and retina. Congestive and degenerative states of various organs are common. The spleen is usually much enlarged. The kidneys also frequently present profound tubular changes. Infarcts manifest much caprice in their distribution. It is, however, exceptional for the secondary embolic centres to become the seat of suppuration. Reference to some of the conditions noted in the 65 fatal Manchester cases may not be with- out interest. Infarction occurred in 34. The spleen was involved in 20, the kidneys in 11, the lungs in 7. In one instance an embolus blocked the right middle cerebral, in another the femoral, and once an embolic aneurysm of the coronary artery was found. Acute lobar pneumonia existed in 12. In the majority of these it was apparently secondary, and possibly in several of embolic origin. Hajmorrhage into the lungs existed in a number. Acute pleurisy was marked in 7, and in 3 empyema had occurred. Acute pulmonary tuberculosis, with extensive excavation and tuberculous ulceration of the intestines, was met with once. Acute peri- carditis was found in 4, and old adherent peri- cardium also in 4. Peritonitis was present in 3, one of these being evidently tuberculous. Gastric ulcer of recent formation occurred once. In two instances a duodenal ulcer had lead to death from hsemorrhage. In another case intestinal ulcera- tion existed, possibly of embolic origin. Sup- purative cholecystitis was found twice ; in one the gall-bladder was obstructed by old inflammatory thickening, but no calculi were present. Hepatic abscesses were noted once, and in the same case there was extensive abdominal tuberculosis. Well-defined hepatic cirrhosis was present in at least 4. Most cases had a more or less " nutmeg " condition of the liver. Splenic enlargement was a special feature in 53. In another case which had appeared during life to be one of " splenic anaemia," though there had been prolonged intei'-