DISEASE 260 HYDATID dog's muzzle or hindquarters, and toys, bits of bread, etc., may thus be contaminated. Again, the dog's faeces may be deposited in the neigh- bourhood of springs or pumps, and any pro- glottides or ova will tend to be preserved by the constant moisture, and will eventually reach the stomach in the drinking-water (Mosler). Many Australian writers assert that in their country infection is probably mainly due to drinking contaminated water. The eating either of uncooked vegetables, such as salad, or of berries and other fruits which grow near the ground, may also be a source of danger. Development.—If the ova of T. echinococcus enter the stomach their shells are digested, and the asexual six-hooked embryos are carried to the intestines, and bore their way (Leuckart) through the intestinal walls. The embryos thus reach venous or lymphatic channels, and are distributed throughout the body. As the embryos are mainly distributed by the portal system the liver is the most frequently afiected organ. They may, however, be carried by the lymphatics to the mesenteric glands or peri- toneum, and may gain the pulmonary or systemic vessels not only by traversing the liver, but also by the thoracic duct. Having reached its destination in any part of the body the embryo loses its hooks, enlarges, becomes converted into a cyst, and excites a chronic inflammation of the surrounding tissues. The developmental changes were most thoroughly investigated by Naunyn and Leuckart. In the liver of a pig, four weeks after the ingestion of ova, Leuckart found small nodules each about 1 mm. in diameter. In the interior of each of these was the altered embryo, which is globular and resembles a mammalian egg, there being a thick, homogeneous, transparent outer zone enclosing coarsely granular material. Eight weeks after ingestion the larva had doubled in size, the granular material was clearer owing to partial liquefaction, and the fluid having collected towards the centre a cyst was formed, whilst the granular material situated more peri- pherally, just inside the homogeneous outer zone, had become differentiated into a definite layer, termed the parenchymatous or germinal layer, or endocyst. At this stage the endocyst consisted chiefly of granules and pale, drop-like cells, which sometimes showed stellate rami- fications. When nineteen weeks old the cyst measured about I cm. in diameter, the homo- geneous outer zone had attained a thickness of 0-2 mm., was distinctly laminated, and is called the external laminated layer, ectocyst, or cuticle. The ectocyst is formed by deposition in successive layers from the parenchymatous layer. The latter layer at this stage was not more than 0-12 mm. thick, yet could be differ- entiated into two layers—an inner consisting of small, clear droplets, and an outer layer of a more cellular nature—whilst there were highly refractile granules and calcareous corpuscles between the cells. External to the ectocyst is an adventitious fibrous tissue capsule formed by proliferation of the surrounding connective tissues. Development of Brood-cap&ules.—When the cyst is about the size of a hazel-nut small elevations arise on the parenchymatous layer by cellular proliferation. The centre of each of these elevations becomes hollowed out, and the A'esicle, or " brood-capsule," so formed is bounded by two layers similar to those of the parent cyst; but in the brood-capsule the laminated layer lies internal to the parenchy- matous layer. The older hydatids may contain thousands of brood-capsules, none of which, however, exceed 1*5-2 mm. in diameter. Formation of Scolices.—Each scolex originates as a diverticulum from the wall of a brood- capsule, the cavity of the latter being con- tinuous with the canal-like cavity of the diverticulum, which is, therefore, lined by a cuticle. At the distal end of this diverticulum, or rudimentary head, hooks and four suckers appear. The scolex is markedly contractile, and eventually becomes invaginated so as to project into the cavity of the brood-capsule; and the cuticle which formerly lined the canal is now the outer covering of the scolex, whilst the suckers and hooks are external too. The scolex, which is never more than 0"3 mm. in length, is now a solid cylindrical mass, attached posteriorly by a " stalk" to the wall of the brood-capsule; but the anterior or cephalic half of the scolex often becomes invaginated into the posterior part, so that the scolex has then a spherical shape. The hooks are smaller than those of the adult ttenia, from which they are also distinguished by their small, slender root processes. Leuckart maintains that the bladder wall, brood-capsules, and scolices are all in direct structural continuity with one another, and that it is only as a result of exposure to deleterious influences, e.g. contact with water or death of the host, that the brood-capsules burst, when the scolices are either at once set free, or remain for a time attached to the shrivelled wall of the brood-capsule. In many instances, and especially in the case of E. veterinorum, the larva midergoes no further developmental changes (acephalocyst), and grow- ing but slowly it rarely exceeds an orange in size, and is either globular or irregular in outline, according to the resistance of the surrounding tissues. The ectocyst increases in thickness; and the adventitious capsule is often 5 nnn. thick and very firm. Formation of daughter-cysts, which have the same structure and function as the mother- cyst.—1. E. exogemis or E. gramdosus, where daughter-cysts lie outside the mother-bladder. These daughter-cysts originate as buds in