INTESTINES, DISEASES OF 525 umbilicus and the intestine. This may be occluded at any part of its course, and this remnant of foetal life (met with in about 2 per cent of bodies examined) is known as Meckel's diverticulum. If the tube remains open at the umbilicus, it forms one variety of faecal fistula {vide " Intestinal Obstruction "). (6) Multiple diverticula of the small intestine are said to have their origin in protrusions from within, the result of defective resistance of limited areas of the intestinal muscular coat, or dragging from without, the result of adhesions due to congenital peritonitis. (c) Occlusion of the small intestine by dia- phragms stretching across the lumen occurs singly as a rule, but is occasionally multiple. Their etiology has received no satisfactory explanation, but it has been suggested that they resemble the similar malformations in the duodenum, and arise from excess of the atrophic process which results in the obliteration of the vitelline duct. It is also possible that intra- uterine peritonitis may, by the formation of bands, produce the same result. Occlusion of the small intestine is incompatible with more than a few days of life, but as distinguish- ing symptoms from duodenal occlusion vomit- ing of biliary matter and abdominal distension will usually be recognised, the latter in propor- tion to the distance of the obstruction from the stomach (see also " Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy," vol. iii. p. 400). (For malformations of the colon vide " Colon," voh ii. p. 185.) Enteritis Definition.—In its widest sense enteritis im- plies inflammation of any part of the intestine large or small. This generic definition is, how- ever, by common usage, restricted to inflamma- tion of the small intestine. The corresponding inflammation of the large intestine is known as colitis, and is described under that heading. Etiology.—Enteritis is caused by contact of an irritant of sufficient virulence with the intes- tinal wall. It may also be produced by an extension of inflammation from other neigh- bouring structures or organs, and it is then known as secondary enteritis. Predisposing Causes.—(a) Debility.—Feeble and reduced health, particularly in very old or very young people, predisposes to enteritis. (6) Age.— Children sufl'er far more frequently than do adults. Indeed a mild catarrhal enteritis is such a frequent accompaniment of the period of lactation as to make it probable that the highly active digestive tract of early childhood is specially susceptible to inflammation. (c) Season and Temperature. — Atmospheric conditions and environment exercise a marked eff'ect upon the prevalence of epidemic enteritis commonly known as summer diarrhoea. The third quarter of the year, July, August, and September, has double the number of deaths from this cause that the combined remaining nine months of the year have. In a dry, hot summer and autumn more cases of epidemic enteritis occur than in a cool wet season. It is more prevalent in the ill-ventilated and dirty streets of large towns than in more healthy localities, or in the country. The facilities for its spread are greater in crowded localities, but dirt, the want of sunshine, and fresh air among the children, and other circumstances favourable to bacterial growth, errors of feeding, spoiled food, and milk, etc., are all powerful factors in favour of its occurrence. id) Exposure to cold has the same relation to enteritis as it has to pleurisy or nephritis, but another factor, namely, disordered digestion by producing an intestinal irritation, may act as a more direct exciting cause. Exciting Causes.—These may be mechanical, chemical, or bacterial. Of mechanical causes the most potent are indigestible and undigested food. For instance, the firm coagulum of milk may cause diarrhoea in children, unripe fruit too freely eaten, fruit containing much woody fibre, nuts, fruit-stones, gallstones, intestinal worms, etc. Among chemical irritants capable of causing enteritis may be mentioned violent pur- gatives such as oroton oil; other irritants in- clude the caustic alkalies, carbolic acid, arsenic, corrosive sublimate, etc. Under this heading also may be placed the unascertained irritant which causes enteritis in some cases of extensive superficial burns. Bacterial causes of enteritis assume a more and more important place as our knowledge in- creases. The exact method of action of the micro-organisms is as yet imperfectly under- stood, but it is now generally recognised that the bacteria normally existing in the intestine may, under certain altered states of nutrition of the individual, of the intestine itself, or of its contents, become pathogenic, or that one species of bacterium, becoming abnormally active, may so alter the normal equilibrium that other species can multiply and become virulent; or bacteria introduced into the body and coming in contact with the intestine may cause inflam- mation. In the former class probably the best example is furnished by the bacterium coli communis, which, normally saprophytic and useful under healthy conditions, may become imder abnormal conditions pathogenic, as, for example, above the site of a strangulation, when the resulting peritonitis is due to this organism becoming unusually virulent aiad invading the intestine after its vitality and nutrition have been lowered by strangulation. In the second class, bacteria introduced into the stomach and intestine from without, the medium is almost always some form of foodstuS" which is more or less decomposed, as, for example.