60 HEADACHE scalp, and there is the history of former rheu- matic ailments. Occasionally when the struc- tures at the back of the head are affected in rheumatism the slightest movement of the head is painful. The diagnosis of intracranial tumour in early stages !presents considerable difficulty, specially if it be slowly growing and if it do not involve any trunk of a peripheral nerve. The difficulty is all the greater from the fact that occasionally hysterical sym- ptoms are the most prominent features in the early stages of organic disease. The character- istics of headache produced by tumour are, the constancy of pain with severe exacerbations, which may come on at night but are not confined to that period, and the pain seems to be present even during sleep. Gowers lays it down as a rule that headache which prevents sleep is due to organic disease, but the rule is not an in- variable one. If in such a case examination of the fundus of the eye reveal symptoms of intra- cranial pressure, tumour may be diagnosed. Hfemorrhage as a cause of headache is excluded by the history. Abscess is often difficult of diagnosis, history of disease of ear, bone, or of pyfemia, with variable pulse and temperature, should guide. In encephalitis severe headache is the first symptom, it increases from hour to hour, and the temperature is elevated. It is not always easy to diagnose hysterical headache; usually the description given is out of proportion to the evident condition, the patient sometimes smilingly descants on the suffering; a common seat of this headache is the vertex; the pain is likened to the driving in of a nail. Violent exercise, laughter, coughing, blowing wind instru- ments, stooping aggravate congestive headache. If the condition be produced by fatigue, noise, bustle, study, it is probably due to debility or exhaustion. The amount of debility may be gauged by the facility with which the pain is induced,—-the more readily induced the more tedious the recovery. If a nursing mother com- plain of headache after having given the breast to her child she should at once wean it. If headache be produced by sightseeing we have to do with a person debilitated, or naturally delicate, or with eye trouble. Occasionally the condition of the pulse will put us on the track of the cause. If it be one of high tension, examine for toxajmia, urfemia, uric acid, or some other form autogenetic or heterogenetic. Liver derangement is a not un- common cause of such trouble. The locality to which pain is referred is not of much aid in diagnosis. Headache from eye strain, although often frontal, may be situated in any part of the head. Pain from ear trouble may be in any part of the same side, even on the opposite side ; the ear itself may be free. Re- moval of cerumen has cured pain over the whole head. Ocular headache is common in bilious- ness, also in gout. Frontal headache is common in malaria, in dyspepsia, in congestion of the frontal sinuses, in catarrh and influenza, and in inflammations and suppurations of these sinuses. Lauder Brunton states that disease of the nose is liable to cause pain in the frontal region at the margin of the hairy scalp. Pain at, or a sensation of pressure on, the vertex is often complained of in hypochondriasis, hysteria, in women debilitated by prolonged lactation, anaemia, poverty, and about the climacteric. Pain at the back of the head is common in cere- bellar tumour, in basal meningitis of children ; it occurs also in chronic affections of the naso- pharynx. Von Troltsch, while stating that disease of the naso-pharynx is a common cause of pain in any part of the head, noted that ex- amination of that space with the finger often produced pain at the occiput. Occipital head- ache occurs in persons who have evidences of nervous breakdown, in constipation, and in rheumatism of the scalp and nucha. Tender- ness on pressiu'e and pain on tapping are common in rheumatism of the scalp ; the hairy scalp is more liable to be tender than the parts without hair, the vertex more than the occiput. In organic disease pain on tapping or even on pressure over a limited ai-ea often indicates the seat of lesion—affection of periosteum or of bone, or a tumour. Treatment.—The discovery of the cause in many cases indicates the cure. To enter with detail into the treatment of headache would involve the writing of a small treatise on the practice of physic, the number of causal con- ditions is so great. For the ti'eatment of these the reader is referred to the various subjects— meningitis, ansemia, ura3mia, etc. In some cases the first treatment must be palliative, but if in any case the only prescription is antipyrin and rest, it is a practical acknowledgment of failure of diagnosis. In more chronic cases the treat- ment is at once directed to the cause. For example, if the nose be at fault, the diseased condition must be treated secundtim artem; if the eye be to blame, the error mixst be corrected by means of lenses, or prisms, or the necessary combinations of these. Carious teeth may require treatment, and if impacted teeth be the cause the removal of one or more may be neces- sary ; it is often good practice to remove the first permanent molars if they show evidence of caries, in order to obtain room, and often in older persons the wisdom teeth must be ex- tracted. Headache due to periostitis from caries may occasionally be cured by painting the neigh- bouring gum with equal parts of liquor iodi fortis and of linimentum aconiti; half a minute later rinse the mouth with tepid water, and repeat the painting if required. Occasionally we are called to treat severe headache in association with acute gastric catarrh ; nothing gives more rapid relief than a sinapism to the epigastrium and a dose of castor oil. When constipation or