INTESTINES, DISEASES OF 521 forward growth and over-folding of the meso- blastic layers immediately in front of the anterior end of the neural groove, form the head of the embryo in which the blind fore gut appears, while at a slightly later period a protrusion from the posterior blind end of the groove curves downwards and forwards to form the hind gut. Coincident with the formation of the fore and hind gut, the lateral sulci, as they dip down, mark off the body cavity of the embryo from the rest of the blastoderm to form the middle part of the alimentary canal, which for a time remains open, and then gradually becomes pinched off from the yolk sac. Later, by in- vagination of the epiblast anteriorly and pos- teriorly, the mouth and anus ai-e formed. The further development of the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach continue, while the intestine still retains a connection with the yolk sac by its duct. This gradually becomes con- stricted by ingrowth from the sides, remaining for some time as the omphalo-mesenteric or vitelline duct, the remains of which in after-life are represented by the permanent cicatrix known as the umbilicus. It thus happens that the whole of the intestine, with the exception of the invaginations of epiblastic tissue from with- out to form the mouth and pharynx and anus, is formed from hypoblast. The organs of secretion which discharge their contents into the intestine (liver, gall-bladder and its biliary <lucts, pancreas, gastric and intestinal glands, etc.) are developed round tubular extensions from the intestinal tract, and are also hypo- blastic structures, with their excretory ducts lined by epithelium of hypoblastic origin. The mesentery and peritoneum are developed from mesoblast. It is of interest in this connection to note that most primary malignant diseases of the intestine commence in the glandular struc- tures, and are of hypoblastic origin and of a cancerous nature, and that primary tumours of the peritoneum are sarcomatous in structure. Anatomically the intestine, about 26 feet in length, is divided into large and small, the former being one-fifth the length of the latter, but in diameter twice as great. The small in- testine is arbitrarily divided into three portions, the first 10 or 12 inches, below the pylorus, being known as the duodenum, the upper two- fifths of the remainder the jejunum, and the lower three-fifths the ileum. The duodenum is, except when immediately adjacent to the pylorus, practically fixed, while tlie jejunum and ileum are freely movable by virtue of their being possessed of a mesentery. The large in- testine, commencing at the lower end of the ileum, is divided into the ctecum, to which the rudimentary vermiform appendix is connected, the ascending, transverse and descending colon, the sigmoid flexure, and the rectum. The caecum is that part of the large intestine which. blind at its lower end, lies below the level of the ileo-csecal valve, and, unlike any other part of the intestine, is entirely covered by peri- toneum. The sigmoid, the ascending and the descending colon have normally no mesentery, and are more or less fixed, but the sigmoid flexure, though usually situated in the left iliac region, is capable of extensive movement within the abdominal cavity, a fact of considerable clinical importance. The structure of the small intestine, speaking generally, is the same throughout its length. It has a serous coat, a muscular, a submucous and a mucous layer. The serous coat entirely surrounds the intes- tine, except at the mesenteric attachment. The duodenum is but partly surrounded, and the mesentery of the colon, and upper part of the rectum, contains numerous little projections enclosing fat, and known as appendices epi- ploicse. The muscular coat is disposed in two layers, an external longitudinal and an internal circular. In the small intestine the disposition of the longitudinal coat is uniform, but in the large intestine it is so arranged as to constitute three well-marked longitudinal bands. The submucous coat is a layer of areolar tissue between the muscular and mucous coats. The mucous membrane is lined throughout with columnar epithelium, and contains the various secreting and absorbing structures necessary to digestion and absorption. Its superficial area is greatly increased by the presence, from imme- diately below the opening of the bile and pan- creatic duct, of the valvulae conniventes. These are very numerous, high in the jejunum, but fade gradually imtil they disappear towards the lower part of the ileum. The intestinal villi on and between the valvulse conniventes are in structure similar to the mucous membrane itself. They are covered with columnar epithelium, and below this a basement membrane is found. In their structure also are included the lacteals, blood-vessels, and nerves, which are supported by a loose network of lymphoid tissue, with a few muscular fibres. The glands of the mucous membrane are Lieberkuhn's, Brunner's, Peyer's patches, and solitary glands, which are known in the large intestine as lymphoid follicles. Brunner's glands occur in the duodenum only, and are branched tubular glands identical with the pyloric glands of the stomach. They lie in the submucous coat, and their ducts pierce the nuicosa. Lieberkuhn's glands are simply tubular or test-tube-like glands. They occur throughout the length of the intestine, but are more numerous in the large than in the small intestine. They are lined with a low, cylindrical epithelium between which are numerous goblet cells, these being more numerous in the glands of the large intestine. Lieberkuhn's, and to a less extent Brunner's glands, secrete the succus eutericus. The solitary glands are found throughout the large and small intestine, and in