INFLUENZA 438 who has not previously suffered from measles the sudden onset of coryza, accompanied by dread of light, would raise a very strong pre- sumption of measles, and it would be imprudent to hazard a suggestion of influenza even if that disease were prevalent. When the erythema of the palate (exanthem) appears early, it will be of assistance in confirming a diagnosis of measles. In the epidemic of influenza of 1892, very many cases were observed by Forchheimer of Cincinnati, in which a differential diagnosis between scarlatina, rubella or rdtheln, and in- fluenza proved difficult at the beginning. After the cases began to increase in number the differential diagnosis seemed easier. The diagnosis between enteric fever and the gastro-intestinal type of influenza will be aided by the application of Widal's test, and by Ehrlich's diazo reaction in a less degree. Atten- tion should be paid to the prevailing epidemic. The presence or absence of rose-spots should be noted. The condition of the spleen should also be ascertained. The duration of the fever is greater in enteric fever. Treatment The treatment of the affection we have been considering is based upon common-sense prin- ciples. It is expectant, palliative, symptomatic. There is no specific for influenza; nor up to the present are there means at our disposal for securing immunity against its infection. The susceptibility to the disease varies remarkably from time to time in the same individual. It has already been shown in this article that immunity is not acquired by an attack, rather the reverse. The prophylaxis of the disease turns on strict isolation, however difficult to secure. In the next place, the mouth and nose should be systematically and frequently disinfected by antiseptic inhalations, sprays, and washes. From his own experience in practice, the writer can speak most highly of quinine and resorcin among remedies of the class named. A grain of sul- phate of quinine mixed with (but not dissolved in) a wineglassful of cold water makes an ex- cellent and efficient aseptic gargle. The anti- microbic properties of quinine are well known, and its topical use after the manner just de- scribed at once relieves the symptoms of sore throat, which result from the strain of the phagocytic conflict in the tonsils—our first line of defence against the invading pathogenic microbes. Another excellent preventive is the frequent employment of a resorcin spray. Eighty grains of resorcin, dissolved in half an ounce of glycerine and seven and a half ounces of pepper- mint water or rose-water—such is the formula which has proved most useful as a mouth spray and also as a nasal spray. Inhalations of oil of eucalyptus, thymol, oil of mountain pine {Pumilio), and the like are also valuable aids in prophylaxis. Internally quinine has been given with apparent success as a preventive by Graeser, of the Polyklinik of Bonn. Finkler quotes Graeser's observations as follows :— " In Bonn all the men of one squadron (of a regiment of hussars stationed at that place) were given 0*5 gm. (7| grains) of quinine in 15 gm. (half an ounce) of whisky for a period of twenty-two days. During this experiment there became ill in the first squadron, 22 men ; in the second, 7 ; in the third, 19 ; in the fourth, 42 ; and in the fifth, 32. The second squadron was that in which the quinine and the whisky had been given to the men. Out of the seven cases of sickness occurring in this squadron, three may fairly be excluded, because the disease made its appearance after the termination of the experimental period. The four remaining cases occurred on the second, fourth, fifth, and sixth day respectively of experimentation ; after this period no more cases of influenza occurred in the second squadron while the quinine was being given, although the disease continued to progress in the others. This result cannot be due to chance." During an epidemic of influenza in the winter of 1899-1900 in Manchester, the sanitary autho- rity of that city, at the instance of their medical officer of health. Dr. James Niven, D.P.H., issued a placard containing the following " Pre- cautions against Influenza " :—• 1. The sick should be separated from the healthy. This is especially important in the case of first attacks in a household. 2. Discharges from the nose and mouth should not be allowed to get dry on a pocket-handker- chief, or inside the house or workshop. They should be at once collected in paper or clean rag and burned. If this cannot be done, the paper or rag containing the discharges should be dropped into a vessel containing water. 3. Infected articles and rooms should be cleansed and disinfected. {See " Disinfection," vol. ii.) 4. Those attacked should not, on any account, join assemblages of people for at least a period of ten days from the commencement of an attack, as they are likely to convey the disease to others. In severe cases the person attacked should remain away from work for a period of three weeks from the onset of the disease. 5. During the epidemic special attention to cleanliness and ventilation should be shown in factories and workshops. Workpeople are ad- vised to wear warm clothing and to avoid un- necessary exposure. 6. Persons who are attacked by influenza should at once seek rest, warmth, and medical treatment; and they should bear in mind that the risk of a relapse with dangerous complica- tions constitutes a chief danger of the disease. 7. The attention of employers is especially called to these recommendations.