HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 121 often loud and short so as to resemble the physiological second sound. It is similar shortening of the first sound that gives the heart-sounds in fever the i-esemblance to the heart-sounds of the foetus in titero, that was so ■well described by Stokes. In the gravest fevers, however, as in typhus, a further change is pro- duced as the result of profound failure of the heart muscle, namely, disappearance of the first sound altogether. As an event of the greatest rarity the second sound may likewise cease, so that the patient would be reasonably thought to be dead but for the faint flicker of the radial or other pidse. When the ventricular contraction is abrupt and the arterial tension low, as in palpitation of nervous origin, the first sound, again, is usually loud and short. Sir William Bi-oadbent has called attention to a condition of the heart-sounds which he regards as of peculiarly bad omen, and in which the first soimd is short and immediately followed by the second sound. The first sound may be reduplicated in all degrees from that in which the clouble sound seems to give only a prolonged and somewhat blurred character to the first sound, to that in which there are clearly two first sounds separated from one another. Ihtrrup-du]) may be taken as representing phonetically such a reduplication as the latter along with the following second sound. Naturally, in all these cases it is over the ventricles that we expect the modifications mentioned to be best heard. In mitral stenosis the first sound is apt to imdergo a remarkable change, which with quiet action of the heart is most significant of the lesion. Such change is commonly termed accentuation. The first sound becomes peculiarly loud, short, and sharp. When the presystolic miu-mur is present it is invariably accompanied by a first sound of this kind into which it runs, so that the two together form a combination of murmur and sound, accurately represented by the syllable "trupp" with an accentuated end, to which reference will again be made. The resemblance between a reduplicate first sound and the combination of murmur and sound referred to, may be close when the heart is acting qviietly, but exciting the heart's action by exercise or otherwise usually at once brings out the accentuation of the first sound, if it does not also develop the murmur, and doubt is dissipated in the case of stenosis. Of 2Iurmurs.—The foregoing remarks suffice to show how much valuable information con- cerning the heart, both for diagnosis and prognosis, may be obtained from modifications of the physiological heart-soiinds qiiite apart from the production of murmurs, as we term the adventitious soimds, that in no way can properly be regarded as physiological soimds however modified. For the most part murmurs may be described as " blowing " sounds. It is difficult to apply such a description, however, to the auricular systolic murmur, which is further sui generis, inasmuch as it is crescendo in character and runs into the accentuated first sound, which at once brings it to a close. Some murmurs assume musical quality, transiently or permanently, and others acquire a loudness that renders them audible not merely over the greater part of the patient's trunk, but actually at a varying distance from it. The quality and loudness of murmurs have not, however, been sufficiently utilised, either for diagnosis or prognosis, to render a discussion of them desirable here. Moreover, the caprice occasionally displayed by murmurs, in regard to the attributes under consideration, makes the probability small of their ever becoming of much practical im- portance. In the case of every murmur heard over the heart it is necessary for the observer to note— (i.) The rhythm auricular or ventricular systolic or ventricular diastolic—in accordance with the physiological act taking place in the chamber of the heart concerned. When either of the physiological sounds remains audible with a murmur it is of great value in the determina- tion of the rhythm of the latter. (ii.) The exact spot at ivhich the murmur is heard loudest, or, as it is called, position of maxi- mum intensity. It must be remembered, how- ever, that this does not necessarily correspond to any of the four areas that are usually associated with the four orifices and their valves. (iii.) The direction or the conduction of the mtirtnur over the surface of the chest. (i.) Rhythm.—At the base of the heart murmurs may assume two rhythms, ventricular systolic and ventricular diastolic ; and at the apex and sometimes over the ventricles they may assume three rhythms—auricular systolic, ventricular systolic, and ventricular diastolic. The basic or arterial murmurs being the simpler will be considered first of all. During the systole of the left ventricle blood is rushing through the aortic orifice, and if a murmur becomes audible during this time we may pre- sume that the current of blood is in some way interfered with. The term "obstruction" is often used to denote such interference, but it is open to very great objection, seeing that the aortic orifice may even be larger than normal. For instance, in aortic dilatation a very loud systolic murmur is often audible in the aortic area, of which the explanation is that, large as is the orifice of the vessel, its channel is larger still, so that the current entering through the former has to spread out to occupy the channel beyond. This condition we know to be the cause of arterial murmui's in general, so that in health all we have to do in order to produce a murmur with the blood current is to narrow the channel of an artery by pressure with the stethoscope. With regard to the aortic orifice