HEMATOMA AUEIS 20 In all probability the actual effusion of blood from the diseased new vessels in the degenerative ear cartilage is determined by some insignificant traumatism. A slight accidental blow, or even the mere friction of the ear between the head and the pillow in a restless patient would suffice. It is quite unnecessary to assume that there has invariably been rough or careless treatment or a severe local contusion, and it is quite erroneous to maintain, as has been done by several writers, that all cases of othsematoma are purely trau- matic in origin. Onset apart from Insanity.—Cases of hsema- toma auris in persons who are not under treatment for mental disease do undoubtedly occur, and may be included in one of two categories. If the subjects are in full mental health with undegenerated ear cartilages, the condition is unknown apart from severe local injury, e.g. fracture of the cartilage and lacera- tion of healthy vessels. It has been known to occur at football, boxing, wrestling, or in other circumstances where the ears are exposed to considerable violence, but even then it is ex- ceedingly rare. Moreover, the frequency with which some children receive a violent box on the ear without any damage of this nature, shows that, when the vessels and cartilages are healthy, haemorrhage is not readily produced. Another class of patients, however, though not confined in asylums for the insane, includes those of degenerate mental powers, alcoholic habits, etc. From the researches of Ford Robertson on the ear cartilages of the pre- sumably sane it is permissible to infer that in such cases considerable degeneration of the cartilage is also present. In other words, these represent a group of transitional cases in which the degeneration is not so advanced as it is in the insane, but yet sufficiently marked to allow haemorrhage to occur from an injui'y of only moderate severity. The literature of the subject abounds with cases which support this view. Relation to Microbic Infection.—The earliest reference to the infective origin of othaematoma was made in 1846 by Leubuscher, who applied the term erysipelas auriculae to the condition. Subsequently, from 1892 to 1896, Pellizzi pub- lished the results of a bacteriological research, from which he concluded that the ordinary haematoma auris of the insane is due to a streptococcus indistinguishable from the strepto- coccus pyogenes vel erysipelatis. Vassale, quoted by Pellizzi, failed to find any organism in one case examined by him. In 1894 Goodall stated that out of seven cases five showed the presence of the pyogenic staphylococci, both aureus and albus, while two were absolutely sterile. The attention of the writer was directed to this subject in 1895, and two typical cases of othaematoma were examined. In each the cyst contents were at first perfectly free from micro- organisms, but in one case accidental inoculation subsequently occurred, the cyst contents became purulent, and then, and not till then, strepto- cocci were abundantly present. Pieces of ear cartilage showing the early degenerative changes which precede the onset of an actual haematoma were also investigated, but no bacteria were detected. The organisms so frequently present must be either the cause or an accident of the condition. In the former case, either they must have the power of producing those early degenerative changes in the cartilage which precede the formation of the haematoma, or they must by their presence determine the occurrence of the haematoma from a degenerated patch already present, or from healthy cartilage. There is, however, absolutely no proof that micro- organisms are at all related to simple cartilage degeneration. Hence, if the presence of micro- organisms is not to be considered purely acci- dental, it must be shown that they are the direct cause of the haematoma. This is the position for which Pellizzi contends, and which Goodall is inclined to support, but it is quite untenable, for the following reasons:—(1) The cases quoted by Pellizzi, Goodall, and the writer, show that no single organism can be regarded as the specific cause, since at least three different varieties have been found. (2) The results of Vassale, Goodall, and the writer, further show that organisms are by no means constantly present, but that there is a considerable pro- portion of cases which, when examined with all due care, give purely negative results. (3) By inoculation of pure cultures Pellizzi has con- sistently failed to reproduce the condition, causing simply inflammation and suppuration in varying degrees of severity. (4) The organ- isms hitherto discovered are all identical with well-known pyogenic forms which have never been found to produce any condition analogous to haematoma auris. The conclusion, therefore, to which the evidence most strongly points is, that the relation of micro-organisms to othaematoma is purely accidental. It is not the presence of organisms that determines the formation of the haematoma, but, on the contrary, it is the haematoma that affords a subsequent nidus for organisms. Nor is it difficult to understand how such access may be obtained. Any sub- cutaneous effusion is more or less liable to become inoculated, and, in the insane, this liability is considerably increased, more especi- ally when such an exposed part as the ear is affected. For, owing to the carelessness, or restlessness, or actual violence of the patient, or owing to his fingering the damaged part, there may readily be produced an abrasion which may become the channel of infection. Prognosis.—The result to the aiu'icle affected depends chiefly on the promptitude with which suitable treatment is applied. If the condition