376 IMPETIGO purulent rhinitis, ulcerative stomatitis, vaginitis, festered wounds or scratches ; and many of these in turn may be secondary to impetigo. We thus see that im}:>etigo is the name given by most authors to an eruption of superficial vesicles, vesico - pustules, or pustules, arising from the inoculation of corresponding contagi- ous exudations, and that for the most part the vesicular eruption described by Tilbury Fox is not distinguished as a separate affection from the primarily pustular phases, although his name impetigo (porrigo) contagiosa is widely adapted to include all. Duhring, however, dis- tinguishes a primarily pustular impetigo. It must be clearly understood that in addition to the primary cases originating in the sources detailed by Payne, others in succession may be derived by direct or indirect inoculation, ^ and appear to be spontaneous, i.e. their source cannot be identified. Further, that similar eruptions, generally pustular, but differing as a rule in their wider dissemination, may appear as com- plications of a host of pruritic eruptions. The all-important bacteriological aspect has next to be considered. It has been established that for the most part the staphylococci are the causal agents of pus. Other organisms, however, are also pyogenic, such as the bacilli of typhoid fever, glanders, tuberculosis, soft chancre, actino- mycosis, and some ringworm fungi of animal origin. In 1887 an important paper by Bock- hart appeared {Monatsh. f. prakt. Derm.), in which he proved that a form of impetigo with primary pustules, generally found about the nates and extremities, and often secondary to pruritic eruptions, was caused by staphylococci. He regarded furuncle and sycosis as different forms of the same disease. Since then it has been generally taught that impetigo, in the wide sense, is a staphylococcia. Soon observers were forthcoming who affirmed the streptococcic origin of some forms, and now the battle rages over this difficult problem. The latest author, Sabouraud, contributes {Ann. de Derm, et de Syj)h., 1900) an elaborate memoir, in which he insists on the utter confusion which has arisen from not recognising a distinction between tlie streptococcic vesicular or phlyctenular impetigo contagiosa of Tilbury Fox and the staphylococcic pustular peripilar impetigo of Bockhart. This may be so, but putting on one side the latter eruption, many of us are still puzzled to know if we rightly include with the apparently spon- taneous vesicular forms the more or less pustular phases arising from the various local sources detailed above. We may here note that the organisms in dispute are constantly present in the skin, and Payne supposes that " they in the first place cause inflammation, if the tissues in which they live are injured in any way; then growing as a pure cultivation in the inflamed ^ H.g. by towels, pillows, washing flannels, antimacassars, football jerseys, etc. tissue they acquire increased pathogenetic pro- perties, and, by passing through one focus of inflammation after another, ultimately acquire sufl&cient virulence to cause suppuration in healthy skin." He notes that pus from deep abscesses does not appear to produce impetigo, and suppurative acne rarely. Impetigo contagiosa of Tilbury Fox (vesicu- lar OR PHLYCTENULAR iMPETiGo) is a very common eruption, occurring especially in children and in the poorer classes, but occasionally seen in adults. It is auto- and hetero-inoculable directly and in- directly, sometimes quasi-epidemic, and varies from time to time in frequency and virulence. Sabouraud affirms that this eruption is due to a streptococcus, and the same which causes erysipelas, though Unna and Schwenter think it distinct. He points out that, if an ordinary blister be raised on the skin, hardly has the vesication risen before it is invaded by micro- organisms, and so it is with the impetigo vesicle. The streptococci are scanty and difficult to culti- vate in the early stages, and are rapidly mixed with a secondary staphylococcic infection.^ Now the pure streptococci impetigo is characterised by the evolution of tiny, isolated, inflammatory papules, which rapidly vesicate, or of clear vesicles, of a uniform type, without relation to a hair follicle and unaccompanied by any marked local disturbance of sensation. The vesicle re- mains clear as long as the causal streptococci culture continues pure, but becomes opalescent and pustular by leucocytic invasion consecutive to secondary staphylococcic infection. Secondary inoculations may contain mixed organisms from the first and furnish primary vesico-pustules, and, if the secondary staphylococci invasion be strong, even true pustules. The vesicles or vesico-pustules tend to enlarge into flat phlyc- tente, attaining in five or six days the size of a sixpence or shilling, unless ruptured by scratch- ing, which generally occurs promptly. Even then a characteristic extending vesication can be often seen. The phlyctena; are rarely full and pemphigoid (see Tilbury Fox's Atlas), some- times simulate a vaccine vesicle, but generally are flat and collapsed. As in all excentrically spreading eruptions ringed or marginate lesions are not infrequently formed, and in rare case the prevalence of this type and their confluence produce strikingly figured pictures. The con- tents of the phlyctense dry up into crusts, often with a stuck-on appearance. If the contents are serous the crusts will be amber-coloured, but if puriform more or less thick and deeply coloured. The isolated lesions are often scanty, sometimes copious, and the crusts may be crowded in parts so as to form confluent patches simulating those of pustular eczema. Tihe fall of the crust leaves a temporary red macule, which disappears with- out scarring. The initial evolution is generally ^ We must refer the reader to Sabouraud's memoir for a description of his special methods of cultivation.