INDIGESTION 382 dragging down of the stomach are often very distressing ; they appear in dilatation, in gastroptosis, where the pyloric end alone is displaced downwards—pyloroptosis,—frequently with floating kidney, and where peritonitic adhesions exist between the stomach and other abdominal organs or tissues. The relationship between gastric uneasiness and painful sensations and the taking of food is an important factor in cases of indigestion. These symptoms may precede, accompany, or follow its ingestion. If coming after food the length of time which elapses before the morbid sensations set in is of value in determining their origin. When distress and pain occur at the time of entry of food into the stomach, if they be not more than slight though persistent, subacute or chronic catarrh of the gastric mucous membrane, malignant disease, dilata- tion with incomplete emptying and fermenting residual contents, or irritability of the nerve- endings in the mucosa, resenting the introduc- tion of new material, may be present. More acute pain and discomfort coincident with entrance of food occur in gastric ulcer, in cases of cancer with ulceration, and in hyperfesthetic nervous cases. The usual site of pain due to gastric disease is the epigastric region, extending up below the sternum in chronic gastritis, of a radiating and more continuous character in cancer of the pylorus, severe and strictly circumscribed in gastric ulcer, but associated with a similar small painful area in the back close to and usually a little to the left of the eleventh or twelfth dorsal vertebral spine ; paroxysmal and localised in idio- pathic gastralgia ; dull and more diffuse in neur- asthenia. Cancer of the smaller curvature of the stomach may give rise to painful sensations at a somewhat higher level, of the posterior wall to pain felt in the back. In dilatation and gastroptosis the location of the pain approaches nearer to the umbilicus. Gastralgia when caused reflexly by disease of other organs is usually located in the epigastric region, but the pain tends to spread over a wide area. Cardialgia, a symptom commonly described as heartburn, proceeds from irritation of the nerve terminations in the lining membrane of the oesophagus and pharynx by hyperacid con- tents of the stomach, eructated by antiperistaltic action and initiated by over-stimulation of the gastric nerves by the excessive acidity of the contents. Heartburn is merely an extension of the less definite variety of pain induced by excess of acidity in the stomach itself to the oesophagus and pharynx, whose nerve-endings are more sensitive to acid stimuli. 2. Motor Symptovis.—The most frequent re- sult of disturbance of gastric motility is delayed digestion, from weakened peristaltic movements of the muscular coat of the stomach wall, with some degree of stasis of the contents and fer- mentation. If severe or protracted, actual dilatation may follow. Hyperperistalsis is not so common, but is met with in irritable nervous cases, especially in those with hyperchlorhydria, and occasionally is so pronounced in character that the contractions are palpable. Pyloric spasmodic contractions are of a similar nature; irritation of the adjacent gastric surface by acid contents inducing the paroxysms which are fre- quently accompanied by severe cramp-like pains and burning sensations. Vomiting or emesis is directly due to abnor- mal motor action, but is usually a secondary result of nerve irritation. Consisting in paroxysmal gastric antiperistalsis, combined with contraction of the diaphragmatic muscle and of the muscles of the abdominal parietes, it may be of local, remote, or central origin. If of local origin, the exciting cause may be in the stomach contents, or in the blood supplying the local nerve ganglia; if remote, the primary source is usually irritation of peripheral nerve fibres or cells, of the abdomen and pelvis in pregnancy and ovarian tumours, of the peri- toneum in acute peritonitis and intestinal obstruction; and, if central, either of spinal or cerebral origin, from organic lesion, toxa^mic irritation, or functional nervous disorder. Generally speaking, acts of vomiting which are independent of meals, are preceded by little nausea, and followed by few if any feelings of ill-health, and in which the materials vomited are of normal character, or nearly so, point to a functional cause, peripheral or central, un- complicated by local organic disease, or by morbid changes of local function induced by neurotic influence. The relationship between the taking of food, the kind of food, the regu- larity or irregularity of occurrence, the degree of nausea experienced, the character and amount of the vomit, the features of the act itself, and an attack of emesis, requires investigation be- fore the true significance of the symptom can be properly appreciated ; in addition, of course, to the obtainal of positive or negative evidence as to the presence of complicating lesions, which may possibly be to blame. Rumination or merycism is another motor symptom, and one indeed which is not so im- common as popularly supposed. It may be, however, perfectly compatible with a healthy state of digestion, although tending to initiate symptoms of dyspeptic disturbance in course of time, if the habit be long and constantly per- sisted in. While met with in certain cases of indigestion, particularly in those of neurotic origin, it can scarcely be regarded as a true morbid symptom of dyspepsia, but rather as a more or less abnormal habit, often begun in curiosity, perceived to be not unpleasant, re- peated too frequently, and ultimately found to have become a necessary custom. The habit has arisen from imitation, as in Korner's case.