154 HEART, NEUROSES OF on Angina Pectoris, and its discrimination from non-cardiac dyssesthesise in the region of the heart (voh i. p. 187). In this place we shall be concerned with the nature and treatment of motor neui'oses of the heart. In the introductory chapter it w^as pointed out that a rhythmical pulsation of the embryonic heart was to be detected at a stage prior to the organisation of the blood-vessels and the intru- sion of the nerves. Life is manifested in the cardiac muscle, in other words, before the com- plete formation of the vessels into which the heart is destined to project blood, and before the nerves destined to regulate its action have grown into it and been distributed to its essen- tial cells. In course of time, however, it was also pointed out that such a distribution does take place, and is not without an influence upon its movements. Regulation of rhythmicality appears to be as necessary to its persistence as nutrition of the structures manifesting move- ment. The existence of rhythmical structures not endowed with nerves may now be denied as positively as the existence of such structures unnourished by blood. It is evident, therefore, that irregularities and abnormal pauses in the action of structures which are perfectly rhyth- mical under normal circumstances must in some measure be due, either to the abnormal exercise of the regulative influence, or to the exercise of this influence being abnormally in abeyance or impaired. It was likewise argued that the structure common to the anabolic and catabolic nerves was the muscle cell — that it was, in short, the peripheral conducting medium be- tween the two adjuvant and supplementary if not antagonistic series of nerves. The muscular or other peripheral organic cell closes the neiiro- cellular circuit at one end, just as the cells of the cortical and subcortical centres of reflex action, physical and psychical, do at the other. Contiinied defect, therefore, in any one of these three factors which constitute the functional imity of cardiac, as indeed of all other visceral action, may lead- to disorder of the regular action normal to the organ {see Plate). Regarding the second sound of the heart as a passive event, and the double contraction of the auricle and venti'icle as one in propulsive effect, the normal action of the heart may be viewed as consisting of a regular alternation of action and pause, of work and rest, distributed in due and recognised proportions, the consequence of which, ceteris paribus, is a recognised normal rate of action. The latter, naturally, varies with circumstances. The heai't of the human foetus, notwithstanding its division into dis- tinguishable chambers, is in reality a complex single tube with comnnniicating orifices, and the systemic circulation is to all intents and purposes a rhythmically pulsating vessel pi'opel- ling blood supplied to it, as a rule, from a higher level than tiiat wliich it occupies itself, and always under a steady materno-placental pressure which influences it. The active and passive phases of its action are therefore practically equal. The " tic-tac" of foetal cardiac action shows little distinction between the duration of systole and diastole. Excessive uterine pressure from inter- ference with the oxygenation of the foetal blood may indeed diminish the normal rapidity of the foetal heart, but its two chief phases are of nearly if not quite the same duration. With the introduction of the second or pulmonary circulation at birth, the closure of foetal com- munications, and the withdrawal of placental pressure, the increased activity of the organ re- quires a greater period of rest, and a noticeable distinction between the duration of systole and diastole arises, which increases with the growth of the organism, until, in adult life, the duration of diastole is distinctly greater than that of systole in the normal and unaccelerated cardiac cycle. Under what are usually regarded as abnormal circinnstances, the duration of both phases of the cycle may be equally increased or equally dimin- ished, or one or other phase may be increased or- diminished in proportion to the complementary action. Thus arise the conditions of abnormal slowness of the heart's action or bradycardia, ab- normal rapidity of the heart's action or tachy- cardia, and irregularity in the phases of the cycle or arrhythmia. Moreover, in this arrhythmical action there may be a certain periodicity of variation which introduces a rhythmical form of arrhythmia, to use an apparently contra- dictory phrase, by means of which certain recog- nised variations are brought about, such as the bigeminal and trigeminal pulse, and the asso- ciated coupling of beats in the heart's action. Such abnormalities may be more or less per- sistent or even permanent, and then they become so marked a clinical feature that the apparent causes and consequences of the con- dition are capable of separate study as patho- logical entities, and are so considered in many text-books, although it is questionable whether any of them have a right to be regarded as such. Taking them seriatim, we shall first con- sider abnormal retardation of the heart's action. Bradycardia. — Grob, who was the first to- apply the term bradycardia to the condition originally described by Adams and Stokes, found in 3578 cases examined as to pulse-rate that an unusually slow pulse existed in six cases. In about 0-17 per cent of these cases, therefore, the condition was to be regarded as physio- logical. The pulse - rate in males is on the whole slower than in females, and all Grob's physiological cases occurred in men. Of per- sistent cases of bradycardia associated with signs and conditions which remove them from the category of the physiological, the majority also occur in men, although the condition is met with among women. In thirty-eight cases