HYPERTROPHY 286 called a j^fogressive nutritive change (as opposed to a retrogressive nutritive change—a degenera- tion or atrophy), and when it deviates to any great extent from the types of embryonic de- velopment or physiological growth we have no longer to deal with hypertrophy, but with a tumour. We can distinguish histologically between true hypertrophy, or increase in the size of the individual tissue elements, and false hypertrophy (hyperplasia), or increase in their number. In the case of hypertrophy of an organ, both true hypertrophy and hyperplasia are commonly associated, but since it is only possible to ascertain the existence of the former by careful micrometric measurements, we gener- ally include both, as stated in the definition given above, under the common term hyper- trophy. Hypertrophy depends on a disturbance of the equilibrium between absorption and consumption of nutriment in favour of the former, a state of matters which is normal during the period of growth—physiological growth being in fact the natural type of the pi'ogressive nutritive changes of which hypertrophy is one. Since normal growth depends on three factors : (1) Inherent predisposition on the part of the cells; (2) a due supply of nourishment; and (3) the amount of tissue waste—it is to these we must look in seeking to understand hypertrophy. It is im- possible to draw any hard and fast line between simple hypertrophy and overgrowth resulting from inflammation on the one hand, or between it and certain forms of pathological new growth on the other. Further, it is impossible to differentiate sharply between normal develop- ment and hypertrophy. Neither does our definition exclude congenital hypertrophy, since there is no reason for discriminating between intra-uterine and extra-uterine growth ; it must also include such conditions as simple over- growth of nails and hair. The influence of the nervous system on the occurrence of hypertrophy is indirect, and would appear to be twofold : (1) it stimulates the cells of the tissues to perform their functions, and, as we shall see, functional activity is in most cases necessary in order that the ceils may be capable of assimilating nourish- ment ; (2) as the great controller of the blood- flow it determines the amount of nourishment supplied to the various organs. Factors influencing Growth and Hyper- trophy.—(1) Inherent Predisposition on the Part of the Cells.—This varies in the different organs of the body. In some, e.g. the thymus, it ceases early ; in others—the nervous tissues—it ceases entirely when normal growth is complete ; while in others, again—the muscles, glands, and epi- thelial structures—it persists during the greater part or the whole of life. Speaking generally, however, it is greatest in early life and diminishes with advancing years. (2) SujTXily of Nourishment.—Increase in the blood-supply alone will not cause overgrowth of all tissues. The conditions under which it may do so are by no means clear. Experimental section of the cervical sympathetic with result- ing vaso-dilatation does not by any means invariably cause increased growth in the hyper- temic area. Hunter, however, produced hyper- trophy of the spur of a cock by transplanting it into the highly vascular comb. In the human subject we apparently have an example of hyper- trophy due exclusively to increased blood-supply in tlie great development of the corpus luteum of pregnancy as compared with that of men- struation, and occasionally a somewhat similar corpus luteum occurs in the unimpregnated con- dition, when there is congestion of the pelvic tissues from some pathological cause. In organs whose function is active—the muscles and glands —no amount of hyperemia alone will cause an increase beyond normal limits. Inflammatoi'y hyperfemia alone, however prolonged, will never cause hypertrophy of either of these structures, but if associated witli excessive functional activity it will readily do so. That is, the cells of such organs are only capable of assimilating extra nourishment if they are actively function- ing. On the other hand, the supporting struc- tures of the body, and also its epithelial coverings, increase in size as the result of long- continued hypersemia ; their capacity for assimi- lation, therefore, is mainly if not entirely regulated by tlie amount of nourishment sup- plied to them. (3) Amount of Waste. — Diminished waste must be accounted a i-elatively unimportant cause of overgrowth. Nutrition and waste can- not be regarded as mutually dependent: it does not follow that nourishment will be automati- cally supplied where waste is excessive, or that where waste is diminished nutrition is also lessened. Each of the processes has its own conditions, and therefore waste must be a factor in determining the size of individual organs. An example of pathological enlargement, associated with diminished tissue waste, is said to be afforded by subinvolution of the uterus, but inflammatory clianges also play an important part in its production ; excessive development of fat in certain cases of obesity would sometimes fall into this group. Clinical Varieties of Hypertrophy.— Hypertrophy of an organ may be a purely physiological process, as in the case of the growth of the uterus and mammary glands during gestation. In the pregnant uterus there is both hyperplasia and true hypertrophy, the muscular fibres becoming increased in number as well as in size ; according to Kolliker they are eleven times longer and four times broader than in the unimpregnated condition. Excessive development of the voluntary muscles, either as the result of athletic exercises or in consequence of certain occupations, can scarcely be looked