INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 498 persecution, is less deeply disordered than the brain of mania or the brain which conceives delusions of grandeur. The latter have lost nearly all self-consciousness and are the seat of a low-level activity. They have dropped their exhausted personality. The clinical facts of these grandiose cases need not be elaborately reviewed. Filled with a sense of good fortune, the patient believes that he is a person of great rank or of great wealth. As always, his conduct does not really square with his delusion. In particular he does not demand with consistent dignity that other people should acquiesce in his belief. His mind, so reduced as to believe the preposterous about himself, is demented enough to be facile and easy-going. Nearly all his ex- pression of his delusion is in the sphere of appearances—in dress and in manner. Believing himself to be heir to the crown, he may assume a pompous air and may don a royal dress. But he smiles if you treat him as a lunatic, his crown is probably of straw and his royal robe a tawdry thing in tatters, he never concerns him- self with the serious affairs of state. And the same superficiality and insane insincerity charac- terise patients who believe, for example, that they are Christ, Shakespeare, Croesus, or Sandow. All such cases, when the patient assvmies a new character, the personification of some kind of grandeur, and abides by it for years, are likely to become demented or to die in their delusion. Such insanities signify a reduction to a level of consciousness which is the converse of the fugitive—a refined mode of the predatory state of mind; an ambitiousness which regards all that the world holds of good as rightfully its own. Alternative Personality—{Double Conscious- ness). — Cases of alternating personality are endlessly interesting and suggestive. And their special attraction, like that of some other mental disorders, seems to be because they exhibit in exaggerated form modes of con- sciousness with which we are familiar in sane life. We find it useful to take the simple mind as our normal standard and select its pre- vailing interest, say the domestic, as determin- ing personality. But the more active human minds are far too complex to admit of such description. Such persons especially as are aware of a conflict between what they call their better selves and other phases of themselves which they do not understand and cannot manage, can at least be said to have interests and pursuits which are without their personality. Indeed we must note a type of persons whose different phases seem hopelessly discrepant and are in fact not at all bound by any unifying process in their consciousness. Such people can be said to have two or more personalities— as difficult a metaphysical conception as that of the Trinity. And this dissociation of the various phases of a mental life, though it has not received much attention from alienists, is a very important factor in insanity, even when there is no obvious question of morals involved. The dislocation which such minds suffer is metaphorically described by Robert Louis Stevenson in his " Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde " as a profound bodily disturb- ance. But even when there is no such con- scious antagonism between the two or more personalities, there must be a cerebral disloca- tion, a dissociation of two or more great kinds of activity, and such brains, whose parts are not subordinate to a central function, are certainly precarious. This object is too large for our summary view of insanity; but it is too important to be passed over ; and a glance at some aspects of it which seem important in practice may suggest others which cannot be remarked upon. To appreciate the significance of alternative personalities, we must understand something about subconsciousness. In particular, we must note that, though the mind is not conscious of it, the brain may carry out a synthetic, a con- structive process. That happens daily. The child, for example, acquires the elements of things—the yellowness, the softness, the smell, the shape of an orange, let us say—as separate ; l)ut his brain compounds them into a whole. And every one of active mind knows how things resolve themselves in sleep. You go to bed with two and two in your head, so to speak, and in the morning they have become four. The same thing happens when the mind entirely leaves a subject for a while and returns to it again In the interval the subject has developed : that is, subconsciousness has been busy with it and the salient features of the thing stand out clearer than before. A man, for instance, who spends his days in the city and returns each evening to music, finds that, while his mind has been busy in the city, his music-brain has been making progress; and next day again it appears that, while his mind had been wrapt in music, his city-bi-aiu had solved some of his business difficulties. But these developments may not be all pleasant, and they may occur in relation to things which tlie mind has not attended to for years. The revival of long-past images in a new and com- pound form is common in primitive intelligences. B}" some such process we must probably explain the adoption by the insane of an entirely un- expected personality. The young mind perhaps was impressed by some Bible character or by some dramatic personation, and, years after, when normal personality subsides, the patient awakes to the fact that lie is the prophet Daniel, or a brother of Prince Charlie, or Solomon him- self, or pei'haps King Lear. And when that happens, the patient does not have to think how such an one would feel and what he would say or do. The brain has made a character-