215 HERPES recorded after a herpes involving the cervical and post-dorsal nerves ; facial paralysis of Bell's type has been stated to follow cervical herpes. On the other hand, Head states that " with the exception of the iris, there is no evidence that any deep structure (pleura, peritoneum) is affected during an attack of herpes zoster." Occasionally the sensation is impaired for a time over the affected area of skin, but it does not usually persist; and Head found that the impairment was generally most marked over the areas of deepest scarring; thermal sensa- tions according to Head suffer more than others. The writer has observed several well-marked instances of " anaesthesia dolorosa" as a parti- cularly obstinate sequela. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis does not usually jjresent any difficulty, but before the appearance of the eruption a pleurisy or pleurodynia may be closely simulated or in cases of herpes ophthal- micus a tic douloureux. The collections of grouped vesicles on erythematous bases with their definite lines of luiilateral distribution usually form a characteristic picture; but sometimes doubts may arise from the lesions being abortive. Again, if the condition is seen for the first time when the vesicles have lost their early char- acters and run together into indefinite areas, the condition may resemble eczema, and the primary lesion may be further masked by secondary in- fections. Occasionally when the disease has occupied unusual regions, the erythema and vesicles have been mistaken for erysipelas. Cases described as universal herpes zoster are undoubtedly instances of dermatitis herpeti- formis {q-v.). In all cases of doubt a careful inquiry into the history of the onset and the accompanying symptoms will usually clear the matter up. Treatment.—There is no marked method of treatment known which will certainly cut short the disease. The indications are to treat the patient on the same lines as for any other acute febrile affection, and to protect the affected parts from the air and from rupture. For this pur- pose the eruption may be freely dusted with zinc oxide and starch powder, and covered with a thick layer of medicated cotton wool and a bandage. The application of Unna's g'lyco- gelatin of zinc is often very efficacious, appar- ently arresting the eruption. When the pain is severe a small quantity of powdered opium added to the dusting powder will sometimes give relief. The application of camphor-chloral or belladonna liniment may also be useful. Generally speaking, the use of ointments or greasy substances is unsuitable, but if the vesicles burst, a boric ointment containing cocaine is valuable. As soon as the attack is over, the patient should be given general tonics, such as strych- nine, iron, quinine, or arsenic, with a generous diet and sound wine; while cod-liver oil is often of signal service. When the pain persists it becomes a very troublesome symptom; anti- pyrin, phenacetin, and other drugs of this class may be given, and the continuous current is frequently efficacious, but too often morphia is the only drug which gives any real or permanent relief. Herring'. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Clupea Thryssa, etc.); Toxicology {Fish, Herrings). Hesperidene.—A giucoside (Cj^Hg^On), obtained from bitter orange rind; a variety of limonene. Hesselbach's Hernia.— A rare variety of femoral hernia in which a series of diverticula is sent off from the sac through the openings in the cribriform fascia. See Hernia {Femoral^ Varieties). Hesseibacli's Triangle.-The tri angular interval formed by the plica epigastrica, the outer edge of the rectus abdominis, and Poupart's ligament. See Hernia (Inguinal, Anatomy). HeteradeipilUS..—A variety of double monster, in which one foetus is fully formed, while the other is little more than a parasite attached to the former (e.g. an acephalous mass attached to the thorax of the autosite). Hetero-.—in compound words hetero- (Gr. (Tepo'i, the other, or one of two), means "different," and is used in opposition to homo-, or auto-, or iso-, or ortho-; thus heteroblastic means arising from cells of a different kind, in opposition to /iomoblastic, arising from cells of the same kind. HeterOCeie.—A hernia contained in a prolapsed part of such an organ as the rectum. HeterOCephaiUS.—A double monster in which there are two heads, one of which is in- completely developed. Heterochromia. — This name is usually given to a pigmentary anomaly of the iris : that of one eye may be different in colour from that of the other eye, or one part of the iris may be differently coloured from another. See Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnor- malities of the l7'is). Heterochronism.—A term applied specially to the appearance of certain symptoms in a malady at a tihie other than that at which they usually manifest themselves, or to the development of organs or tissues at abnormal times; "displacements in time." HeterochthOnOUS. — Arising outside the organism, in opposition to autochthonous. HeterOCinesia. See Hysteria {Motor Disorders).