HEART, NEUROSES OF 156 are half as numerous as they really are (Fig 4). True persistent bradycardia is inaccelerable by posture, exercise, or stimulation. The rate of respiration may be sUghtly diminished when bradycardia is equable and persistent, but is Fill. 4.—Bradycarilia with dropjied beat. usually accelerated more or less when the con- dition is due to cardiac failure of a most acute character. Diagnosis.—Bradycardia being a mere sym- ptom is not to be distinguished from any other condition. But two points have to be borne in mind in examining such cases, namely, (1) the possibility of cardiac action and pulse-rate mani- festing the sesquipedalic or dropped-beat pheno- menon, a y)oint which must be determined by an examination both of the heart and the radial pulse ; and (2) the fact that bradycardia may be due to causes either within or outside the heart. To determine the latter point Dehio has ingeniously suggested that atropine may be employed as a test. In intrinsic, or, as Dehio terms it, cardial bradycardia, atropine fails to accelerate the heart, while in extrinsic or extra- cardial bradycardia it succeeds in doing so. Pathology.—The pathological conditions which have been found in association with bradycardia are proliferation of the interstitial tissue of tlie lieart, fatty degeneration of its muscle cells, atheromatous changes at the aortic orifice with, in many cases, systolic bruit, and likewise, in many cases, in association with a general arterial thickening, usually due to senile change. The defective quality of blood so frequently found in connection with fatty degeneration of the heart and various cardiac neuroses may also be present when the neurosis takes the form of bradycardia. Visceral nerve changes, central and peripheral, have been little investigated. In Holbcrton's well-known case, the autopsy in which was made by Robert Liston, there was said to be some induration of the medulla oblongata, and enlargement of the pneunio- gastric nerves as well as of the middle cervical ganglion on the right side. In congested hyper- trophic conditions of the heart Ott has found proliferative changes in the cardiac ganglia, and in dyscrasiiB due to ansTemia and pyfemia, fatty change in the ganglion cells themselves, together with a like metamorphosis of the muscle cells. It is difficult, however, to attribute bradycardia to any one or to any combination of these changes, for some of them are even more fre- quently associated with tachycardial and arrhythmical conditions of cardiac action. Stokes of Dublin, who noted the frequent occurrence of bradycardia with obstructive atheromatous states at the aortic orifice, con- sidered that the whole bodily conditions of which atheroma and arterial degeneration are the outcome, might be regarded as causal of slow pulsation. That the aortic lesion may have some influence in producing this state may, however, be argued from the comparative slowness and regularity of the heart's action in aortic as compared with mitral disease. Our ignorance of visceral neural pathology prevents the expression of any useful opinion as to the share taken in this matter by the nervous system, but there are circumstances which point to the abolition or depression of the accelerant action of the spinal cardiac nerves, however induced and associated with whatever anatomical changes, as the probable cause of retarded cardiac action. Prognosis.—This in bradycardia due to fever, poisons, or sudden failure of the heart maj', of course, not be gloomy. The effect passes oft' with the disappeai'ance of the cause. But in persistent cardial bradycardia the prognosis is always grave. The usual termination is in death by syncope with or without associated epileptiform phenomena. Treatment.—The treatment of bradycai'dia must be guided by the view taken of its most probable cause, the opinion formed as to its transient or persistent character, and the possi- bility of its being influenced by therapeutic agencies. Extra-cardial bradycardia must be combated by cardiac accelerants, of which bella- donna, ether, and the nitrites are the chief. The bradycardia due to sudden dilatation or cardiac overstrain may be beneficially influenced by rest, the digitalis group of remedies, and in some cases by bleeding. Persistent bradycardia in elderly people, however, which, as a rule, is uninfluenced by posture or stimulants, calls for little treatment beyond that proper to senile arterio-sclerosis in general. Chief among these may be mentioned the employment of short courses of mercury, with or without the addition of digitalis or belladonna, and an occasional saline aperient. In many cases, however, a " masterly inactivity" is indicated. If the bradycardia be unassociated with subjective discomfort, it is wisest in many cases to avoid the use of specific cardiac agents, which may upset the balance, if they act at all, of what is in reality a form of established cardio-vascular compensation. The issue of such cases being as a rule syncope, emotional and physical stress, and the sudden increase of the vascular contents by the imbibition of large quantities of nutritive fluids, should be avoided. TACHVCARniA.—The term tachycardia was first applied by Gerhardt to a markedly quickened action of the heart which had been previously described in this country. Accelerated cardiac action may be met with in various degrees and