HYPNOTISM 293 hystero-epileptics. In Germany, Heidenhain and others commenced to investigate the sub- ject in 1880, but the movement they originated soon ceased. Charcot and his followers formed the school of the Salpetriere; their views, how- ever, are now generally discredited, and have done little or nothing to further the therapeutic use of hypnotism. On the other hand, the movement originated by Liebeault has now spread over Europe, its development in Ger- many being mainly due to Forel. In England, although Braid was never completely forgotten, the hypnotic revival, apart from my own share in it, arose from Liebeault's influence, and hyp- notism, despite some opposition, has now gained a recognised place. At the Birmingham meeting of the British Medical Association in 1890, a committee ap- pointed to investigate hypnotism reported unani- mously, two years later, that they had satisfied themselves as to the genuine nature of hypnotic phenomena, and the value of hypnotism as a therapeutic agent. Hypnotism has now defin- itely taken its place in medicine and science. No work on general therapeutics is complete without reference to it, and the physiologist or psychologist who ignores its existence, or denies its phenomena, imperils his reputation. Methods of Inducing and Terminating THE Hypnotic State Inducing Hypnosis.—The chief methods of inducing hypnosis are—(1) Sensory stimulation, e.g. passes with contact, fixed gazing, etc.; (2) Central stimulation by suggested ideas. The first was the only one consciously employed by the mesmerists ; the latter is the avowed method of the Nancy school. The modern hypnotiser, however, borrows in technique from Mesmer and Liebeault with equal impartiality. The members of the Nancy school, while asserting that everything is due to suggestion, do not hesitate to use physical means, and Mesmer's passes are almost exactly reproduced by Wetter- strand. Fixed gazing generally precedes or accompanies suggestion, and, when these fail, Bernheim has recourse to narcotics. At first Braid relied mainly on fixed gazing; later, he hypnotised as readily in the dark as in the light, and easily succeeded with the blind. As the result of this, he concluded that the influence acted directly on the mind — not through the optic nerves—and that the best method was direct verbal suggestion. While it is doubtful whether physical methods alone have ever suc- ceeded, hypnosis can certainly be induced when these methods are excluded. Here, the subject is made to understand the condition the operator wishes to induce, and to expect its appearance. This condition is kept constantly before the subject's mind by the operator's reiterated verbal description of it; nothing more is necessary. Once hypnosis has appeared, it can be reinduced at any time in response to any signal previously arranged by suggestion. Terminating Hypnosis.—No matter how pro- found the hypnosis, the siibject can always be aroused with ease. It is only necessary to sug- gest during hypnosis that the condition shall terminate in response to some given signal, such as the audible counting of "one," "two," "three " by the operator. Afterwards the subject invari- ably responds at once whenever the signal is given. Experimental Phenomena of Hypnosis These vary with the depth of the hypnosis, the personality of the subject, and the methods of the operator. In the earlier stages we do not find all the phenomena which characterise the deeper ones, but in the latter we can induce not only its own phenomena, but those of all lighter stages. For convenience' sake, therefore, I propose to describe the phenomena which have been evoked in the most profound form of hyp- nosis, i.e. somnambulism. Changes in the Voluntary Muscles.—The following muscular phenomena have been ob- served :—Catalepsy.-—In extreme cases there is general tonic contraction of the muscles. Flexi- bilitas Cerea.—Here the limbs can be bent like soft wax and maintain any position in which they are placed. Increase of Muscidar Pouter.— Sometimes the subjects are able to perform physical feats far beyond their normal strength. Paralysis.—The different voluntary muscles may be paralysed singly or in groups. In some cases, the muscles necessary for the performance of a given movement do not contract; in others, the muscles act, but are overpowered by the violent contraction of the antagonistic ones. There are, however, few, if any, changes in the voluntary muscles which are absolutely characteristic of hypnosis, and none which arise independently of direct or indirect suggestion. The most noticeable phenomenon is the long maintenance of an uncomfortable posture, associated with extreme muscular rigidity, without subsequent fatigue. Changes in the Involuntary Muscular and Vaso-motor Systems.—Pidse. — In many in- stances the freqiiency of the pulse can be easily altered by suggestion, this being accompanied by corresponding sphygmographic changes. Thus, increased speed is associated with decreased tension, and vice versa. Bourru and Burot, Mabille, Jules Voisin, Artigalas, Remond, Hulst, etc., report cases of bleeding from the skin ; Forel, Schrenck-Notzing, Rybalkin, etc., local redness of the skin; and Focachon, Rybalkin, Kraff't-Ebing, Hulst, etc., blisters produced by suggestion. Krafft-Ebing and others cite cases of alterations of temper- ature. The evidence as to local redness of the shin and bleeding is convincing in some instances and