HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF 239 open operation. If the latter is adopted, the opportunity may be taken of clearing out any extra-articular bone lesion at the same time. The wound should heal by first intention, or should be dealt with by the open method from the outset. If the abscess be extensive, or if it have relapsed, or if it be situated within the pelvis, the existence of serious bone disease should be suspected, and the question should be considered whether the joint itself should not be subjected to operative interference, either at the same time as the abscess or at a subsequent period. Operative Treatment of the Disease in the Joint —Arthrectomy and Excision.—The results of conservative treatment are so superior to those obtained by the operations hitherto practised that we only have recourse to these when there is no prospect of spontaneous recovery. In other words, operation is indicated when the local conditions are such as prevent recovery, or when the general condition of the patient neces- sitates the removal of the disease. So far as the first of these indications is concerned, the diffi- culty lies ill being able to recognise those cases in which the local conditions are incompatible with recovery at a time when it will be of practical value. It must be remembered that complete excision of the hip is an operation of considerable severity, as evidenced by the existence of a considerable mortality from shock alone. The occurrence of tuberculous meningitis would appear to be as frequent in cases treated on conservative lines as in those subjected to operation. Indications for Operative Interference. — 1. When the disease from the outset presents un- favourable features, e.g. rapid progress, severe pain, early occurrence of adduction, or when it advances in spite of proper treatment; when pain and starting pains are not relieved by ex- tension ; or when, after a long period of quies- cence, the disease becomes suddenly active and aggressive. 2. When the disease relapses after apparent cure, and if the recrudescence of the disease is attended with suppuration. 3. When, along with evidence of persistence of the disease, there is a deformed attitude which does not yield to extension ; where there is dislocation of the head of the femur, or separation of its upper epiphysis. 4. When there is abscess within the pelvis, or other evidence of disease of the acetabulum. 5. When there are septic sinuses with sym- ptoms of hectic and of waxy degeneration and persistent discharge in spite of proper drainage. These ai-e most unfavourable cases whether an operation is performed or not. Operation may afford the only chance of recovery if it is not too long delayed, but it should not be attempted in hopeless cases. 6. In adults who show no signs of recovery within a year from the onset of the disease. This indication specially refers to " bread-winners," who desire above all things a definite promise as to when they will be able to return to work. Complete removal of the disease is an essential condition for any such promise. In patients over thirty natural recovery is so exceptional that it is unwise to count upon it. In children, on the other hand, there is no urgency for resuming active life; the prospects of spontaneous recovery are great, and an operation may interfere with the subsequent growth of the limb. Nature of the Op>erative Interference.—From what has been said it is evident that we are often compelled to operate without knowing the condition of matters within and around the joint. We are, therefore, unable to decide beforehand the nature of the operation which is required. Our object should be to expose the disease wherever situated, and to remove it with the least possible damage to the normal structures. The more "open" the method of operation the better, since more reliable information is ob- tained by inspection than by palpation. These indications are best fulfilled by Kocher's method, which, by permitting of dislocation of the femur, affords free access to all parts of the joint. If it should be found that the disease in the head of the bone is limited to the surface or to isolated areas, it may be got rid of with the spoon or gouge, thus preserving the head, which is returned into the acetabulum at the close of the operation. This method, which may be described as an arthrectomy, should be practised wherever possible. If, on the other hand, there is a gross lesion in the head or neck of the bone, the neck is divided with a chain saw or chisel and the head is removed. The remaining disease having been got rid of, the raw surface of the neck is implanted in the socket, or is made to lie opposite to it. This operation is described as an excision of the joint. In the anterior operation (associated with the names of Parker and Hiiter) the [head of the bone must be removed in order to give access to the acetabulum and posterior segment of the synovial membrane. As this excludes the pos- sibility of arthrectomy, and affords an exposure of the joint inferior to that secured by Kocher's method, its application should be restricted to cases in which the lesion is believed to be con- fined to the anterior part of the joint. Kocher's operation is performed as follows :— The patient is turned over on the sound side. An angular incision is made through the skin and fat with its centre at the anterior superior angle of the great trochanter. Its upper limb runs upwards and backwards in the line of the fibres of the gluteus maximus ; its lower limb runs downwards and slightly backwards to the posterior margin of the base of the trochanter. The incision is deepened at the upper part of the wound so as to separate the fibres of the