GYNAECOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS IN 7. Use of— (a) Speculum. (b) Volsella. (c) Sound. (d) Curette. (e) Aspiratory Needle. (/) Dilator or Tent. 8. Physical Changes in- (a) Nervous system. (6) Respiratory system (c) Circulatory system ((/) Locomotory system Diagnosis of Case. Prognosis of Case. Treatment. Progress and Termination. (d) Digestive system. (e) Urinary system. (/) Cutaneous system. C. D. K F. Symptomatology of GYNiECOLOGY (Anamnesis) This part of the examination is conducted by questioning the patient (or her mother, if the patient be an unmarried girl) as to her symptoms; tact is required, for it is necessary to elicit all the facts without offending the patient's modesty or causing her to mislead us either intentionally or unwittingly. The information gained by the anamnesis is not of the same high value as that got from the physical examination (in competent hands), but it is not to be neglected. 1. Prellminary Inquiries : (a) wame, for pur- poses of reference, and in order at once to get idea of patient's state as regards marriage ; (6) age, in order (i.) to be alert as to detection of diseases which are common at special periods of life, such as nervous affections at the menopause, cancer of the uterus about the same age, and myomata a little earlier, and (ii.) to help in deciding what kind of treatment is to be adopted; (c) occupation, in order to learn if any causal conditions exist, such as lifting heavy weights, long hours of standing, luxurious habits, etc.; (d) residence, for future reference, especially when it is desirable to trace the result of treat- ment ; former residence in a malarious or tropical climate should also be noted; (e) condition as to marriage, keeping in mind that a woman may be single, married, or widowed, that she may have been twice married, and that she may be pregnant although unmarried or a widow ; (/) date of admission (in hospital practice) or exam- ination (in private practice). 2. Complaint and Duration of Illness : (a) complaint, to be recorded in patient's own words, e.g. a " falling of the womb," " flooding," " white discharge," " pain in the back," etc.; and the gynfecologist will do well to familiarise himself with the popular terminology in use for the description of gynsecological complaints in the part of the country where he is settled; (h) duration of illness to be noted as exactly as possible, useful time - marks in the patient's history being the birthdays of her children; and from this information one may judge as to acute or chronic nature of malady. 3. General History : (A) Present Attack OR Illness, as to (i.) date of commencement. (ii.) first symptoms, (iii.) mode of advance, (iv.) development of fresh symptoms, (v.) treatment adopted, and (vi.) effects of treatment. Do not ask too many leading questions, but endeavour to prevent patient wandering from the point and giving much irrelevant information. (B) Previous Health, more particularly as to (i.) occurrence of similar attacks, and (ii.) the histoiy of syphilitic or gonorrhoeal infection (very carefully elicited, and 7iot by direct interrogation). (C) Diathesis may be noted (e.g. when a dis- tinctly nervous, rheumatic, or gouty constitution is present), but is a somewhat minor detail. (D) Social Condition and Habits must be carefully inquired into, and (the latter) with delicacy and tact, special attention being paid to want of exercise, indulgence in alcohol or drug-taking {e.g. for painful menstruation), and tea-drinking in excess. (E) Family Health, especially in relation to occurrence of cancer (call it " tumours"), of phthisis (call it " lung troubles"), or difficult labours, etc., in near relatives. 4. Sexual History is most important in a gyntecological case. (1) Menstruation: if (a) Tioi'ma/, inquire into its date of commencement (menarche), its type (cyclical recurrence), its habit (duration and quantity), and (in elderly women) its date of disappearance (menopause); and the reader may here usefully read the article dealing with Menstruation and its Disorders ; if (6) morbid or abnormal, inquire {a) into the form of the abnormality, e.g. (i.) amenorrhoea, or absence of menstruation, including oligomenorrhcea (scanty menstruation) and cryptomenorrhoea (concealed or retained menstruation); (ii.) menorrhagia, or excessive menstruation; and (iii.) dysmenorrhoea, or painful menstruation ; and {b) into the degree of the abnormality {e.g. amount of excess, pre- sence of clots, character of the pain, etc.). {Note.—The physical examination will be neces- sary in order to discover the cause of the abnormality.) (2) Intermenstrual Discharge or Pain : there may be {a) metrorrhagia, or a red (blood) discharge in the intermenstrual period ; or {b) leucorrhoea, a white (or yellow) discharge, which may come from the vulva or vagina (acid in reaction), or from the uterine cervix or body (alkaline in reaction), and may contain various histological elements, according to its origin ; or (c) Mittelschmerz, or Mid-Pain, a pain occurring at the mid time between two menstruations. (3) Pareunia : the occiu-rence of pain during coitus (dyspareunia) is occasionally a symptom which it is of importance to elicit; but usually no inquiries need be made under this heading. (4) Pregnancies : inquire {a) as to number of pregnancies the patient has had, including those that ended prematurely as abortions ; {h) the dates of the first and last, often ascertained