INFANT FEEDING 403 minutes, or more accurately by such an appara- tus as has been described above for pasteurising, the thermometer being kept at 100° F. for about three minutes. The bottle must be gradually tilted by the nurse as the child empties it, so that the nipple end shall be kept full to prevent the child sucking in air. The infant should be accus- tomed to take its food without interruption, the whole meal lasting ten to twenty minutes, after which any remaining milk must be thrown away, and the bottle washed and put away. are some infants who will not thrive on cow's milk however carefully it is diluted, and for such it is necessary to find some other method of feeding. For those who are able to afford it the milk of the ass or the goat is sometimes successful as a substitute for mother's milk, but by no means always, and such milk should never be ordered without due regard to the cause of the failure to thrive on cow's milk. This will be better understood from a comparison of the analyses of these various milks :— Human Milk. Cow's Milk. Asses' Milk (Winter-Blyth). Goat's Milk (Winter-Blyth). Proteid Fat . Sugar Salts . r Casein, '6 2-0- Lact- ic albumin, 1 '4 3-5 7-0 •2 (Casein, 3"25 4-0- Lact- (albumin, •75 3- 5 4- 0 •7 (Casein, 1"0 1-8 J Lact- ic albumin, "8 1-0 5-5 •4 C Casein, 3-0 3 "7-^ Lact- ic albumin, "7 4-2 4-0 ■5 (Under the head of lactalbumin in the analyses of asses' milk and goat's milk peptones amounting to about "1 per cent have been included for convenience.) The infant should not be allowed to take its food in a desultory way, lingering over its bottle for half an hour or more, or still worse, being allowed to suck even after the bottle is empty in order to keep it quiet. Additional Food.—Supposing an infant to be making satisfactory progress on diluted cow's milk, the question arises. How soon should any additional food be given ? As a general rule no other food of any kind is required until the infant is at least seven months old, and many infants will do well without any addition to their diet until nine months old. The best guide is the weight of the infant, so long as this is increasing satisfactorily the diet is sufficient. As early as the third or fourth month a small quantity of a completely malted food, such as Mellin's, can be added to one or two of the feeds daily without doing any harm, but it is seldom necessary. At the age of six or seven months one of the partially malted foods, such as AUenbury No. 3, or Nestle's Food, which contain some unconverted starch, may be cautiously added to one or two meals in the day. If these are well taken, some prepared wheat flour or a Robb's biscuit may be given once or twice a day at the age of nine or ten months, and about the same time the yolk of an egg lightly boiled may be given occasionally. At the age of twelve months a tablespoonful of crumbled stale bread or a rusk soaked in milk or in red gravy from underdone meat may be allowed once a day, and a little later mealy potato mashed into a fine flour and beaten up with milk may be given two or three times a week. Milk of Animals other than the Cow Asses^ Milk, Goat's Milk.—Unfortunately there It will be seen that asses' milk is much poorer than cow's milk both in proteids and in fat (in a specimen examined by the writer the fat amounted to only -3 per cent). The casein forms a very fine flocculent curd almost like that in human milk, and therefore may be digested well, where, as usually happens, the trouble in digesting cow's milk is due to the casein. Its extreme poorness in fat, however, makes it unsuitable for continued use, and asses' milk must be regarded only as a temporary food suitable for very young or very weakly infants, or for such a feeble condition of digestion as is left after a severe attack of gastro-enteritis. It has a laxative action, which is also sometimes useful, but may make it unsuitable where there is any tendency to diarrhoea. Goat's milk, on the contrary, is almost as rich in casein as cow's milk and is richer in cream. It might be expected, therefore, that it would be useless ordering goat's milk where there is difficulty in digesting casein; this, however, does not necessarily follow, for in some observations made by the writer, the curd given by goat's milk with hydrochloric acid was much more finely divided than that given by cow's milk under similar conditions. A trial of goat's milk may therefore be useful even where the infant is unable to digest the casein of cow's milk. Some infants thrive excellently on goat's milk, and in the country where a field is avail- able it is not an expensive matter to keep a goat. One infant under the writer's care was fed on goat's milk for several months; the goat cost fourteen pence a week to keep, and yielded at least two to three pints of milk twice a day. Goat's milk, of course, requires dilution in the same way as cow's milk.