290 HYPERTROPHY the growth is slowed, and the subjects generally die early. Giantism may occur in later life under a variety of circumstances, and associated with several other diseases, of which the most common is acromegaly. Sternberg, to whose writings we are largely indebted, divides giants into the following groups:—A. Normal giants, without any deformity, who enjoy good health, and reach old age. £. Pathological giants, (i.) Asso- ciated with acromegaly, (ii.) With multiple tumour-like exostoses, leontiasis ossea, or facial hyperostosis. These often show signs of pres- sure on the brain or cranial nerves, (iii.) Com- bined with facial hemihypertrophy (unilateral hyperostosis). (iv.) With multiple curvature of bones, such as scoliosis, bending of the arm bones, genu valgum, etc.—probably osteitis deformans of Paget. (v.) Giantism has also been seen associated with congenital syphilis, tumours of the testicle, and after castration (?). Since many of the reported cases of acromegaly have occurred in giants, and many museum skeletons of giants, e.g. the Irish giant, have been found to show signs of acromegaly, it appears that something more than a merely accidental relationship must subsist between them. Langer, before the recognition of acro- megaly, divided cases of giantism into those with normal skulls, and those who had an enlargement of the hypophysis. The latter he called pathological, and many of them are now known to have been the subjects of acromegaly. It has been said that all giants are acrome- galians, but the incorrectness of such a statement is obvious from the above grouping of the cases. Another view of the relation between the two conditions is this : that when the disease occurs in youth, giantism results; when in later life, acromegaly. We now know, however, that typical acromegaly may develop in young persons. It appears that while about 40 per cent of all giants suffer from acromegaly, only about 20 per cent of all acromegalians are giants—that is, acromegaly is more common in giants than vice versa. As Sternberg's classification shows, we may have along with giantism not only acro- megaly, but a variety of other more or less rare diseases of the bones—leontiasis ossea, osteitis deformans, etc., and it has been argued that giant growth may predispose to the occurrence of such widely-spread dystrophies and lesions of the supporting structures of the body. Much further observation is, however, required before the relations of giantism to acromegaly and these other diseases can be known. PsEUDO - Hypertrophy. — In pseudo - hyper- trophy of muscles there is not merely a replace- ment of atrophied muscle-fibres by fat, but there is actual hypertrophy of the fat and connective tissue. The affected muscle-fibres are abnormally small; most of them, however, preserve their normal striation, but where the change has progressed farthest they show granular degenera- tion and other changes. The condition is a primary disease of the muscles due to an inherited tendency. Treatment.—Little need be said on this point. Since compensatory hypertrophy is in the main beneficial, and is, in fact, what we aim at in dealing with the conditions to which it is due, we have to do our best to further it in most cases. The indications are furnished by our knowledge of its proximate causes. We endeavour to supply appropriate nourishment, to adapt the stimulus to the capability of the hypertrophying structure—as for example when we order rest in a case of cardiac valvular disease in order to give the ventricular walls time to gain strength and cope with the effects of the lesion, and finally (though this is less often within our power) to diminish tissue waste. Apart from this, com- pensatory hypertrophy, as such, requires little or no treatment. In the case of the morbid conditions grouped under the heads of patho- logical and inflammatory hypertrophies, the treatment—further than if possible removing the cause—will vary according to the organ affected. Reference must be made to the special articles for particulars. Hemihypertrophy does not admit of much treatment. Benefit is said to have followed the application to the limbs of elastic pressure so as to retard growth. In some cases surgical measures may be needed. HyperymenoiTia,.—A tumour consist- ing of membrane (Gr. virep, excessive, and vfinjv, a membrane). Hyphae. See Micro-Organisms {Hypho- mycetes or Moulds). Hyphaema or Hyphaemia.— Hsemorrhage into the interior of the eye. See Eyeball, Injuries of {Detachment of Iris) ; Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Inflammatory Condi- tions). Hyphedonia.—Morbid lessening of the feeling of pleasure in doing agreeable acts; it is opposed to hyperhedonia {q.v.). Hyphomycetes. See Micro-Organisms {Ilyphomycetes). HypinOSiS.—Deficiency of fibrin in the blood, as opposed to hyperinosis {q.v.). Hypnacetin.—An antiseptic and hyp- notic drug; it is an acetophenon and phenol derivative, and it has been given in doses of 3 or 4 grains. HypnagOg^iC State.—That condition in which an individual is neither awake nor fully asleep. See Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Hypnagogic State); Unconsciousness {Double Consciousness).