75 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM continued exertion. Porters, navvies, miners, blacksmiths, workers in iron and other heavy metals, and like laborious occupations, are all liable to cai'diac derangement and failure from the unavoidable strain associated with their work. The influence of physical effort in the produc- tion of an attack of angina pectoris, when the heart is ill-nourished by an imperfect blood- supply, is so well recognised as hardly to need mention. The relation of muscular effort to blood-pressure may undoubtedly become of pathological importance, especially in subjects who have passed the meridian of life, which period, however, is not to be stated in years. In advanced life nature demands and usually ensures that there shall be a tempering of the strain to the weakening powers. It must, however, be admitted that in the majority of cases the effects of " strain " do not generally make themselves apparent unless there is also some other agent or agencies at work im- pairing the cardiac nutrition, or in some way rendering the tissues more vulnerable. In many instances careful investigation will show the patients to have been the subjects of anaemia, chronic alcoholism, toxtemic conditions, or nutritional derangements. In some instances an inherited cardio-vascular weakness may play an important part in precipitating the breakdown. The effects of fatigue during periods of conval- escence, overwork at times of physical depression, and ill-regulated exercise in the presence of actual cardiac lesion, are only too frequently met with to permit of denial. Strain is often said to be accountable for lesions of the aorta. Undoubtedly prolonged effort, such as is necessarily associated with certain laborious occupations, plays a very im- portant part in the establishment of forms of chronic aortitis, particularly the variety usually described as " atheromatous," which, moreover, often implies interference with the coronary orifices and impaired nutrition of the heart muscle. To sudden strain is also due the rare lacera- tion of a degenerate myocardium, and possibly an acute dilatation of one or more of the heart's chambers. It is sometimes said that external violence is capable of producing rapture of a cardiac valve. Without absolutely denying this, the extreme rarity of such an event warrants one in believing that it only occurs when the valve is already the seat of some morbid process, and even then it is extremely uncommon to meet with any such condition as could be considered due to external violence. Injury sufficiently severe to rupture a sound valve is almost invariably immediately fatal. Latent disease is frequently made manifest by some form of undue or unaccustomed exercise. Not infrequently chronic cardiac pathological conditions are much aggravated by unwonted resort to procedures necessitating ill or unregu- lated effort. A hitherto efficient compensation may be completely ruptured by a trifling accident or a slight tussle. The importance of such considerations on therapeutical measures and medico-legal investigations will at once be evident. It is not necessary to discuss here the particu- lar localisation of the effects of strain. It will be sufficient to point out that those pernicious mechanicalinfluences which, collectively, we may include under "strain " exert their power (i.) by establishing functional derangement (including leakage of valves and deficient emptying of chambers), which may be merely temporary or pi'olonged vmtil organic defect is established; (ii.) by producing arterial valvular defects either as the result of dilatation of the aorta and its orifice, or through changes in the valves themselves. (2) Chemical.—Agents conveyed in a soluble form by the blood to the various structures of the heart are accoiuitable for many of the morbid conditions which form the pathological basis of cases of so-called cardiac failure, which, coming under the observation of the physician in their advanced and final stages, present features more or less in common, and principally indicative of waning muscular powers. Certain of these chemical bodies are of autogenetic origin, as in Bright's and Graves' diseases, while others are heterogenetic, being manufactured outside the body, and wilfully or accidentally introduced. The action of toxic ag-ents resulting from microbial growth will best be referred to later. Among the foremost of the toxic bodies pro- duced within the system must be mentioned those associated with the condition of gout. The influence of gout in producing functional de- rangement of the heart has long been recognised, but its most prejudicial eftects are expended either directly or indirectly in establishing changes, usually leading to increased cardio- vascular pressure, and generally associated sooner or later with cardiac hypertrophy. Gout also seems to lead to degenerative changes in the coronary vessels, thereby producing an impaired nutrition of the muscular substance of the heart. The cardio-vascular associations of "gouty" kidney are not to be overlooked. It is very probable also that gout is capable of establishing primary degeneration in the muscle itself. Some of the cases of gouty syncope ai"e probably due to such myocardial changes. It is some- times said that gout is accountable for a form of chronic mural endocarditis, but this, if it ever occurs, is quite exceptional. The establishment of an aortic valve disease (apart from mere aortic dilatation) is more probable. Of even greater importance than gout stands out rheumatism. It is unnecessary here to con- sider whether the toxins associated with this