DIAGNOSIS IN 4 GYN.^COLOGY, most easily by asking the ages of the yovmgest and of the oldest child; (c) the number of abortions, the age of the pregnancy {e.g. third month) when they occurred^ and whether medical attention was then sought for and obtained ; (d) the character of the labours, normal, laborious, preternatural, or complex ; (e) the course, normal or abnormal, of the puerperal periods, especially in regard to the occurrence of fever or haemor- rhage in the days following labour; and (/) the duration and course of the lactations or nursing periods, and the occurrence of mammary troubles. 5. Local Functional Disturbances. — (1) Bladder : inquii'e whether there is pain during or after passing water (dysuria), or retention (inability to pass water), or incontinence (loss of power of holding water), for such symptoms may point to uterine disorders {e.g. displace- ments) or to fistulae {e.g. vesico-vaginal). (2) Rectum : inquire into the existence of habitual or occasional constipation, or of diarrhoea, or of pain on def<ecation (emptying of the bowel), for these symptoms may be associated either as causes or effects of uterine and ovarian troubles. (3) Pelvic Nerves and Muscles : sometimes pelvic pains (sacralgia), or pains shooting down the thighs, are associated with gyntecological diseases {e.g. cancer, cellulitis); sometimes, also, muscular weakness occurs {e.g. in rupture of the perineum) or muscular spasm {e.g. in vaginismus). 6. General Functional Derangements : although the attention of the practitioner is specially directed towards the symptoms local- ised in the pelvic organs, he must not forget to inquire into the occurrence of symptoms in the more distant parts of the body {e.g. in the nervous, respiratory, circulatory, digestive, and urinary systems); for they may have a connec- tion with the gynaecological complaint, either the general symptom being a consequence of the pelvic trouble, or (less commonly) the pelvic symptom indicating a general disease; thus, dyspnoea may be a pressure symptom due to a large ovarian cyst, palpitation may be caused by metrorrhagia in uterine fibroids, and pain in a distant part {e.g. the heel) have its origin in a urethral caruncle, while dysuria may be the result of renal disease, and pain in the back indicate lumbago of rheumatic origin. Physical Examination in Gynaecology 1. General Appearance and Configuration to be noted when the patient walks into the room and during the anamnesis, e.g. anaemic or cachectic appearance, abdominal enlargement, crookback, dwarfism, etc. 2. Mammary Glands : these are examined by inspection and palpation, in order, early in the investigation, to get a hint of the existence of pregnancy, for, in dealing with a patient sup- posed to be gynaecological, this possibility must be kept in mind. " Ovarian tumours " have sometimes turned out to be pregnancies, and vice versa; therefore, be alert to detect any or all of the seven mammary signs of pregnancy. In other cases the breasts are examined to detect mammary abscess, cyst, cancel", or fissure of nipple, and to determine their capacity for lactation. 3. Abdomen.—(1) Inspection : (a) Method: position of patient, dorsal, on consulting-room couch, or in bed ; her head supported on a pillow; the bladder and rectum should be empty; her clothes are drawn up to her waist under the covering, which is then folded down over the examiner's right hand, placed at the level of the symphysis pubis, leaving the abdomen but not the general genitals exposed ; (6) Details: note state of skin (pigmentation, etc.) and cutaneous veins; condition of disten- sion, local or general; and iimbilicus (depressed, flattened out, herniated); (c) Descriptio7i: in recording what is observed, make use of the regional division of the abdomen into nine areas by two horizontal lines (upper one joiiiing tenth costal cartilages at their most prominent parts, lower one uniting the two iliac crests \vhere most prominent), and two vertical ones (from eighth costal cartilage to mid point in Poupart's ligament on each side); for, in this way, swell- ings and other irregularities can be localised in one or other or several of these areas. {Note.— The reader should here recall to mind the anatomical contents of each region.) Right Hypochondriac Epigastric Left Hypochondriac Right Lumbar Umbilical Left Lumbar Right Iliac Hypogastric Left Iliac (2) Palpation : (a) Method: with warmed hands (wash in hot water, which both warms and increases tactile sense of skin) palpate firmly and deeply, beginning with the lower zone of regions (iliacs and hypogastric); patient should lie easily and comfortably, with her knees drawn up, and should be engaged in conversation, so as to relax the abdominal muscles; (?;) Details: note feeling and thick- ness of skin and subcutaneous tissue ; sensation of resistance or tenderness or fluctuation at any part; size, shape, and consistence of any swell- ing found either in the abdominal walls or cavity, and its connection with the pelvic struc- tures {Note.—The hand cannot be insinuated at the pelvic brim below tumours which have grown up out of the pelvis) and other organs; presence of swellings {e.g. enlarged glands or hernite) in the inguinal regions, as indicative of possible venereal mischief or inflammation of vulva and lower part of vagina. (3) Percussion : {a) Method: make deep