362 IMMUNITY The firm of Merck (Darmstadt) in addition supplies Germany with Tizzoni's tetanus serum, which is a dry prejaaration. Kdhler's statistics show that it acts just as well as Behring's pre- paration, provided it can be injected early enough, repeatedly and freely. Before use, the dry preparation is to be dissolved in ten times the quantity of sterile fluid, and 1 cc. of the solution then contains 80,000 immunisation units, i.e. is able to completely neutralise 80,000 toxic units. Tizzoni's toxic unit represents the mini- mum quantity of filtered tetanus bouillon which can kill 1 kilo, living weight of rabbit in five to six days. 3. The Cause of the Antagonism of Antitoxin to Toxin. — Now there are three conceivable possibilities. Behring at first thought that there was a destruction of poison by means of the antitoxin. But if this were the case, a given quantity of antitoxin, if remaining longer in contact, would be able to gradually destroy more toxin; a mixture of antitoxin and toxin, which had at first a toxic action, would after a time have a neutral action, and would finally contain surplus antitoxin. This, however, is not the case (Roux and Vaillard, Buchner). It was also shown that a mixture of tetanus toxin and antitoxin which is almost neutral for a mouse can, when absolutely the same dose is injected, cause fatal tetanus in the gviinea-pig, which is about eighteen times as heavy (Buchner). Hence in a mixture which is neutral for a mouse the poison is not completely destroyed. This fact, however, harmonises with a second theory propounded by Roux, according to which the action of antitoxin is to be regarded as an indirect one—the antitoxin acting on the living- elements of the organism and immunising them to the toxin. Roux based this view on the fact that the action of antitoxin is completely different in a healthy organism, and in one previously weakened, a fact which could not be explained by the supposition of a direct destructive action of antitoxin on toxin. In support of Roux's theory is the fact that antitoxic action is not in all cases strictly specific. For example, the blood-serum of animals which have been treated with tetanus toxin is antitoxic, not only to that toxin, but also to snake venom. The blood- serum of rabbits which have been immunised against rabies is not protective against rabies, but is markedly antitoxic to snake venom (Roux and Calmette). Similarly, the serum of animals immunised against snake venom is also antitoxic to scorpion poison (Calmette, Metschnikoff'), and the immiine sera obtained by means of ricin, abrin, etc., yield similar results (Ehrlich). In spite of these facts this second theory, according to which antitoxin and toxin are physiological antagonists, cannot be regarded as correct. There is more probably a direct com- bination of antitoxin and specific toxin, whereby the action of the latter on the organism is arrested, as was first shown by Ehrlich and then by Knorr. But here too it is necessary to determine more definitely the nature of this combination which Ehrlich regards as a simple chemical one like that between acid and base. Recent investigations carried out by Ehrlich with ricin and antiricin, by H. Kossel, Camus and Gley, and Kanthack, prove beyond doubt that antitoxin and toxin directly affect and com- bine with each other. Possibly, however, there is not a simple chemical combination, but a sort of absorptive action, such as we see in connec- tion with staining agents. This latter supposition is as a matter of fact by no means improbable, for it is only thus that a series of facts ascertained by A. Knorr can be explained. There is no doubt that toxin and antitoxin generally com- bine in proportionate amounts, so that if one unit of toxin be neutralised by a given quantity of antitoxin, one hundred times as much anti- toxin is able to combine with one hundred units of toxin. Yet there are deviations from this rule. One striking fact is that a concentrated mixture of toxin and antitoxin differs from a dilute mixture in regard to neutralisation. For instance, Knorr, using the same toxin and anti- toxin in each case, obtained the following results :— Units Units toxin. antitoxin. 250,000 + 260,000 = 0 2,500 + 2,500 = 1 nT-i n , , 25 + 25 = I ^^^^^ Again, the length of time the toxin and anti- toxin have been in contact before being injected is of importance in determining their combina- tion ; for example, a mixture of 2500 units toxin -f- 2500 units antitoxin immediately after being prepared was injected into an animal, and death from tetanus occurred three and a half days later. The same mixture if kept for two hours caused only slight disease, and after being pre- served for twenty-four hours it became inactive. Such combinations vary very greatly according to the nature of the poison in question. The subject has only become comprehensible since Ehrlich showed how greatly the constitution of various preparations of one and the same poison may differ, according to the amount of toxones, toxoids, etc., they contain, i.e. the amount of modified toxins which are non-poisonous, and yet which combine with antitoxin. These differences in the various toxic preparations, therefore, do not help to solve the prol)lem. Now, if there were merely a chemical combina- tion of toxin and antitoxin, it would necessarily follow, when dealing with one and the same solution of toxin and antitoxin, that the degree of concentration woiild be of little importance. In point of fact, however, this is not so. Knorr, for example, working with his standard toxin and standard antitoxin, obtained the following results;—