102 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM distended. The general effects have already been fully indicated. III. Affections of the Myocardium It is only of recent years that a true appre- ciation of the importance of lesions of the myocardium has aroused pathologists and clinicians to a more intimate study of the same. A clear recognition of anatomical arrangements and structural peculiarities constitutes an essential preliminary. Of special importance is the vascular supply. The structure and characters of the coronary vessels have, how- ever, been described elsewhere and need not be referred to again, except to insist on their great importance in considering many of the most important patliological conditions of the myocardium. In dealing with the processes of disease occurring in the heart frequent reference has been made to involvement of the muscle sub- stance. It will be well, therefore, in the present section to limit our consideration to the more important affections of the myocardium. Cardiac debility, although a term which, pathologically speaking, may be considered in- defensible, nevertheless conveniently indicates a condition, congenital or acquired, of inadequacy Avithout visible structural change. Asthenic states of the cardiac muscles arise often under the influence of deficient coronary arteries, and may even end in angina pectoris. Sometimes cardiac debility is temporary, but more fre- quently it is of long duration, and constitutes one of the forms of disability embi-aced under the comprehensive but indefinite clinical designation of " weak heart." Atrophy and degenerations of the myocardium are very common. They are to be looked upon as evidences of either local or general mal- nutrition. In not a few instances the muscular degradation is dependent upon general blood states of anaemia or toxaemia. In other local conditions involvement of the coronary vessels is the determining cause. Simple atrophy is said to occur as a part of the general wasting incident to old age, but certainly in healthy old people the very oppo- site seems frequently to be the case. Atrophy arises also in conditions of starvation and general malnutrition, and as a part of a more direct disease, such as fibrous transformation of the myocardium. Special forms of atrophy have been described, such as:— (i.) PMbrillary atrophy, where there is, as it were, an exaggeration of the longitudinal stria- tion of the muscle fibres; (ii.) Fragmentary atrophy or segmentation, in which a splitting up of the muscle cells is noticed, probably from a necrosis of the myosin ; and. (iii.) Pigmentary atrophy, where hajmatoidin granules of a brownish-yellow colour appear about the nuclei of the muscle cells, and the myocardium becomes darker, harder, and lighter in weight. Degenerations of varying degree are common, but have been already sufficiently described. Myocarditis or inflammation of the cardiac muscle is practically always a secondary con- dition. It may develop in the course of in- fectious fevers or in association with septic and toxic states. It is also said to arise from a local extension, as from endocarditis or peri- carditis. Myocarditis is often described as being either (i.) parenchymatous or (ii.) intei'stitial; but such a distinction is somewhat artificial, as in most instances both muscle and inter-muscular substance are involved. The process may be (i.) general or (ii.) local. As regards intensity it is (i.) acute, (ii.) subacute, or (iii.) chronic. Whatever may be urged on the ground of theoretical pathology, it is certainly difficult to draw any sharp distinction between certain forms of degeneration of the cardiac muscle cells and so-called parenchymatous myocarditis. Profound protoplasmic change in the muscle elements occurs in many toxsemic conditions, and particularly in typhoid, diphtheria, and septic fevers. It is important to remember that a like change occurs in acute rheumatism. In some cases of " alcoholic heart" the muscle cells present cliaracters indistinguishable from those met with in diphtheria. Influenza has of recent years amply proved itself, in many instances, a serious agent in affecting heart failure. The importance of pneumonia in bring- ing about rapid cardiac collapse, especially in muscle degraded by chronic alcoholism, is too well known to need more than a passing refer- ence. But so-called parenchymatous myocar- ditis to a greater or less extent may occur in almost any disease of an infective character, or morbid condition associated with continuous pyrexia. Special reference may here be made to the " alcoholic heart" so common among heavy beer-drinkers in male labourers, and such as draymen, market-porters, cabmen, and public- house employees, but from which spirit-drinkers are far from being exempt. Although the symptoms of cardiac failure may be of sudden or rapid development, more or less hypertrophy, and often very conspicuous increase in the muscle, is almost always present. The toxic influence of alcohol on muscle leads to degenera- tive changes, but the enormous quantities of fluid frequently imbibed must not be left out of consideration. AVhen a myocarditis proceeds to the forma- tion of pus it is spoken of as a suppurative myocarditis, which may be localised, forming one or more abscesses, or more rarely diffuse.