HYSTERIA 325 contraction of the field of consciousness. This manifests itself in a peculiar manner and by a certain number of elementary phenomena. Thus sensations and images are no longer perceived, and appear to be blotted out from the individual's perception, a tendency which results in their persistent and complete separation from the personality in some cases and in the formation of many independent groups. These series of psychological facts alternate the one with the other or co-exist. Finally, this synthetic defect favours the formation of certain dependent ideas, which develop complete in themselves, and unattached from the control of the con- sciousness of the personality. These ideas show themselves in affections possessing very various and unique physical characters." Recently Sollier has propounded a new theory for hysteria which differs considerably from the conception of the Salpetriere school. It is based on the well-known fact that hysterical subjects {hysteria major) sleep little, and yet do not suffer from fatigue. He concludes that these patients are immersed by day in a patho- logical sleep, which renders natural sleep im- possible. It is for this reason that if one orders hysterical patients who have grave symptoms to wake up completely after hypnosis, a series of phenomena are seen similar to those accom- panying the natural waking state, with regression of the personality. To conclude from this that the subjects of h3'steria are somnambulists or rather " vigilambulists," is not a wide step. The state of vigilambulism is modified, not only when one orders the patients to awake, but also when one orders them no longer to be aware of their anaesthetic zones. The return of sensation, obtained in this manner, is sufficient to arrest all the symptoms comprised in the somnambulistic state. This method, which at the same time is a therapeutic agent, is called by the author the " method of arousing the sensibility." These alterations of sensation are, in the same way, dependent upon a torpid con- dition of the cerebral centres, which are indeed asleep. It is easy to explain by this conception the different symptoms of the neurosis, since, according as such and such a centre becomes torpid, different symptoms will result, and in cases where numerous symptoms are present several centres may be asleep at the same time. This doctrine admits that the existence of cerebral localisation accounts for the dynamic troubles of hysteria. It deserves on account of its originality to be placed alongside of the generally accepted theories. LITERATURE. — Briquet. Traite de Vhysterie, 1899.—AxENFELD et HucHARD. TruiU des niivroses, 1883.—Charcot. Le(;ons sur les maladies du systeme nerveux, t. i. ii. iii.—Idem. Lc(;ons du Mardi, t. i. ii. —Idem. Cliniques des maladies du systtme nerveux, t. i. 1892.—P. Richer. Etudes cliniques sur I'hysUro- ipilepsie ou grandc hystirie, 2e ed. 1889.—A. Pitres. Leqons cliniques sur I'hysUrie et I'hypnotismc, 1891.— GiLLES DE LA TouRETTE. Traite clinique et thira- peutique de Vhysterie, 1891-95.—P. Janet. £tat mental des hysteriques (Bibliotheque Cliarcot-Debore), 1894.— Idem. Accidents mentaux de Vliystirie (Bibliotheque Charcot-Debore), 1894.—Guinen. Les agents provo- cateurs de I'hystiric. These de Paris, 1889.—Souques. Les syndromes simulateurs de Vhystirie. These de Paris, 1891.—BfezY. L'hysterie infantile, 1900.— SoLLiBR. Ocntse et 7iature de l'hysterie, 1898. Hysteria in Childhood Etiology 325 Symptoms ...... 327 Prognosis . . . . . .328 Treatment ...... 328 Hysteria is probably mvich commoner in children than is generally supposed, and it is a matter of no small importance that its frequency should be recognised, for at this age environ- ment, one of the most potent factors in hysteria, is easily modified and controlled; moreover, education in its widest sense can be carefully planned even in its smallest minutise, so as to guard against neurotic tendencies at that period when they are most easily checked. Age.—There is some doubt as to the earliest age at which hysteria may occur. At least three cases have been recorded in which symp- toms attributed to hysteria were present at the age of 18 months, and there have been some very doubtful cases at an even earlier age. Hysterical catalepsy has been seen at 2 years (Mills) and at 3 years (Jacobi), and hysterical analgesia at 2| years (Barlow). After the age of 4 years hysteria becomes more frequent. The writer has met with hysterical amaurosis with analgesia at 4 years, and has known severe hysterical contracture to occur at 4^ years. But the majority of the cases of hysteria in childhood occur during the five or six years preceding puberty: of 33 consecutive cases under the age of 12 years, which came under the writer's observation, 23 were in children over the age of 8 years. Sex plays a far less important part in the hysteria of childhood than in that of adults. The predominance of the female sex Avhich is so striking in adult hysteria is much less notice- able in this condition in children. AVhile the proportion of males to females in adult hysteria is variously stated at 1 to 3 (Pitres), 1 to 10 (Bodenstein), 1 to 20 (Briquet), in children it appears to be about 1 to 1 "25. In the series of 33 children mentioned above, 18 were girls, 15 were boys. It would seem, however, that when boys are affected they are liable rather to the milder manifestations of hysteria, than to the severe forms often seen in girls. Predisposing and Exciting Causes. — There can be little doubt that in many, perhaps in most, cases the tendency to hysteria is con- genital—the child is born with a neuropathic tendency; and in this sense the dictum of