86 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM relieved from time to time by hsemoptjsis, which may prove a natural and beneficial venesection in the subjects of mitral stenosis. As the result of long-continued passive con- gestion the lungs pass into conditions of so- called " red" and " brown induration." A cyanotic lung is of increased consistency, its elasticity diminished, and generally increased in weight, though often lessened in size. In colour it varies from a red to a deep brown, according to the degree and duration of the engorgement. The connective tissue is usually increased and the air vesicles diminished in size, while their walls are thickened. The capillaries are much distended, tortuous, and htemorrhages readily occur. " Nutmeg " Liver.—The hepatic tissue is one of the first to fall under the influences making for passive hypera^mia. Failure of the heart to empty its right-sided cavities necessarily inter- feres with the return of the blood from the inferior vena cava. Passive hypersemia of the hepatic veins ensues, and if prolonged leads to such changes in the appearance of the liver substance as is aptly characterised by the terms " myristicated " or " nutmeg." The organ is often enormously enlarged and much increased in weight. In states of venous congestioii the sponge-like adaptability of the organ becomes of considerable practical importance. The liver substance is dark red in colour, and, as seen through the smooth and stretched capsule, has a mottled appearance. On section the large veins are found distended, but after death the alteration in blood-pressure allows the thin- walled vessels to collapse and the liver to shrink to a considerable extent, so that frequently the pathologist finds an organ which does not corre- spond in size to that mapped out during life. The cut section of a " nutmeg " liver presents a mottled appearance; the central part of each lobule is of a dark reddish-brown colour, due to distension of the intra-lobular vein and engorge- ment of the capillaries, with atrophy of the adjacent liver cells. The peripheral zone of the lobvile is of a grey or yellow colour, due to extensive fatty changes in the liver cells, and in advanced cases the atrophy, degeneration, and pigmentation with bile may be extensive. " Cyanotic " Spleen.—The spleen participates in the results of obstruction to the portal blood- flow, hence, in most cases where the eff"ects of impeded blood-flow from cardiac disease are transmitted to the liver, the spleen sooner or later pai-ticipates in the portal venous engorge- ment. It is interesting to note, however, that the capillaries of the liver may long successfully act the part of a protective buff"er to the portal system. A cyanotic spleen is of a dark purplish- red colour, fii-m in consistency, tough, and not readily friable. It is generally enlarged to some extent, but not always so. In cases of con- gestion from hepatic cirrhosis the spleen is usually much larger and heavier than when of " cardiac " origin. Passive congestion of the gastro-intestinal tract is usually well marked in cases dying from pro- gressive heart failure. The veins of the stomach and intestines are engorged, the mucous mem- brane swollen, and frequently small haemorrhages occur. It is important to note that cyanotic conditions of these structures readily pass into a state of actual inflammation. It is quite com- mon to meet with evidences of gastro-intestinal catarrh in fatal cases. Htemorrhoids and some- times oesophageal varices may be present. Passive venoiis congestion of the pancreatic and other branches of the portal vein lead to impairment of the function of the organ con- cerned, and the engorgement of the peritoneum leads to the establishment of ascites; and in long-standing cases chronic indurative processes seriously damage the absorptive properties of the peritoneum. Special note should be made of the porcelain-like thickening of the capsides of the liver and spleen, and other parts of the serous membrane of the abdomen met with in long-standing cases of ascites of cardiac origin. Cyanotic kidneys are met with in all cases of long-continued heart disease. The organs are enlarged, increased in weight, of firm con- sistency, having a dark brownish-red colour and with pi'ominent stellate veins. The capsule may not separate very readily, but the surface is generally moderately smooth. Occasionally old scar-like depressions are met with. Both cortex and medulla are increased in extent, of a dull red or purplish colour, with the venae rectse and glomeruli often prominent. Mici'oscopic ex- amination shows great distension of the veins and usually distinct changes, mainly degenera- tive, in the renal epithelium. In many in- stances it is clear that no hard and sharp line can be made, either pathologically or clinically, between states of venous stasis and actual in- flammation. It is certain that in the kidney conditions of the former readily merge into those of the latter. In cyanotic kidneys minute haemorrhages are frequently found, as also pig- ment granules in the cells, and not uncommonly hyaline casts in the tubules. Congestion of the genital organs, when occur ring in the female, may be of importance in explaining the occurrence of menorrhagia or metrorrhagia. Passive hyperctmia of the su2yerior vena cava and its branches is manifested by engorgement, and sometimes by tortuosity of the veins of the neck and face. Special reference may here be made to certain curious cases of so-called "alcoholic" heart, which clinically much re- semble cases of mediastinal tumour at the first glance—the venous engorgement and dropsy of tiie head and neck and upper part of the trunk and upper extremities being often extreme.