MALFORMATIONS OF HEART, CONGENITAL 150 Ije considered no longer tenable. Extreme cyanosis has been found in cases where the con- dition of the heart did not permit of any abnormal mixture of this kind; and, again, individuals have been known to live for years without a trace of cyanosis, although their hearts presented more or less extensive septal defects. (2) A more widely accepted explanation is that first enunciated by Morgagni, that the discoloration is merely the result of congestion of the venous system arising from backward pressure. It seems probable that this accovmts to some extent for the phenomenon, and the differences noticed between the cyanosis of ordinary heart and lung cases and that of con- genital malformation may be partly at least attributable to the very early onset of the back- ward pressure having caused greater dilatation of the smaller blood-vessels. The fact that the blood which distends these is abnormally dark from its concentration must also be borne in mind. (3) Dr. Lees has presented strong arguments in favour of the cyanosis in congenital heart cases being simply an index of the extent to which aeration of the blood in the lungs has been hindered, the discoloration being due, not to venous congestion pure and simple, but to the congestion of non-aerated blood. Clubbing of the Fingers and Toes.—This is a common symptom of congenital heart disease ; but the exact conditions under which it occurs are not quite clear. It is present in most cases where the cyanosis is extreme, but not in all, and it may be present without any cyanosis. Dr. Lees points out that it is not likely to occur if the systemic venous congestion is prevented by the presence of a widely patent foramen ovale. When clubbing of the fingers and toes is present to a marked degree a correspond- ing condition of the nose and ears is usually seen. Blood.—In cases of this form of cyanosis, as well as in others, there is a concentrated con- dition of the blood. Its specific gravity is in- creased (1070-1080), and the number of coloured blood corpuscles may reach as high as from 8,000,000 to 9,000,000 in the cub. cm., while the hsemoglobin may be over 150 per cent. Some Forms of Cardiac Malformation.—A few facts may now be given regarding some of the varieties of congenital heart lesion, includ- ing those which are most frequently met with in clinical work or in the post-mortem room. Patent Foramen Ovale. — Very little blood passes through the foramen ovale at birth, although the opening is often not completely closed before the middle of the first year. Not inicommonly the foramen persists dui'ing life in the form of a small valvular opening. This scarcely amounts to an abnormality, and gives rise to no symptoms. When, however, the opening is large and not valvular, it is to be regarded as distinctly abnormal, even if, as sometimes happens, it has no apparent effect on the health. In some cases the patent foramen is accompanied by a more or less extensive defect of the adjacent inter-auricular septum. Patency of the foramen ovale is not very rarely the only malformation discoverable ; it is, how- ever, much more common to find it along with other malformations of the heart or large vessels. The symptomatology of this defect is still very obscure. Frequently it gives rise to no symptoms or physical signs at all. Such symptoms as have been ascribed to it are inconstant and ill-defined. Murmurs of various kinds have been met with, and these have not only been presystolic or diastolic, as might have been expected, but quite as often systolic in time. The area of their maximum intensity has also varied, but they have generally been heard best about the level of the 3rd or 4th costal cartilages. In some cases there has been cyanosis ; in others it has been absent. Under ordinary circumstances the diagnosis of these cases is impossible. In the rare instances, however, in which a patient with this defect acquires mitral incompetence in later life, the defective state of his inter-auricular septum may be betrayed by the occurrence of venous pulsation in the neck without evidence of tri- cuspid disease. The prognosis in these cases is obscure. Many of the patients die in early infancy, but not a few instances are on record of individuals with large defects of the inter-auricular septum who have reached adult life and even old age (sixty to eighty years). It must be remem- bered, however, that the presence of an open foramen ovale constitutes a source of danger to life in cases in which anything of the nature of venous thrombosis is present. A detached frag- ment of a thrombus carried to the right side of the heart is very apt to pass directly into the left auricle, thence through the left ventricle into the arterial system, causing an embolism in the brain or elsewhere. Defects in the Inter-ventricular Septum.—The normal inter-ventricular opening closes by the eighth week of intra-uterine life. A permanent opening in this situation constitutes one of the commonest malformations of the heart. It may occupy the position of the "undefended space," or membranous portion of the septum, or it may be at one or other side of this area. It is but rarely situated near the apex. Although occasionally found alone, this malformation is generally one of several. It is especially apt to be associated with pulmonary stenosis. When it is met with to a very marked degree along with a large defect of the inter-auricular septum, we have the condition which has been described as " corbiloculare " or " reptilian heart."