INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 490 contrast with the gymnastic of melancholia. And the exultation is intelligible; for the dynamical conditions of pleasure are fulfilled— rest of the devitalised mechanisms and full activity of the energetic—exercise of the imagina- tion, of the special senses, and of the voluntary muscles. And even in mania the systematic nature of the disorder can generally be demon- strated. It is impossible here to expound the statement, but mania is not intrinsically in- coherent. The maniac's sentences seem inco- herent to us, but they are coherent to his surviving mode of consciousness. Could we obtain a complete bird's-eye view of all that happens in his cortex, we should discover that his disordered activities, even when peripherally initiated, and still more when they are centrally determined, follow along paths which are organic- ally associated. And the big types of mania are obviously systematic developments. The follow- ing varieties are those described by Clouston. But the disease is so gross, so obvious, so fully treated of in the text-books, so impossible of private care, that we need only point out salient features and remark a few of the relationships of the affection. Simple Mania is often not diagnosed in its early stage. There is a general exaltation of cortical function. The patient is restless, active, fanciful, pleased with himself, but often quarrel- some. This stage is characterised by great activitj' of the high-level functions short of corrective judgment and coherent purpose. The consciousness teems with extravagant ideas, hopes and schemes, and revels in excess of affec- tions. Now and onwards we must note the un- restrained activity of the objective relations. Every little change in the environment suggests something to the patient's restless mind. A clever companion, who cares to lead the patient on, will elicit an apparently endless flow of con- versation, quite coherent, but grossly extravagant, and may lead him into any madcap adventure •—a visit to the crowned heads, or to the North Pole, the purchase of an army of elephants, or of half the coal-fields of Europe. But let the guidance of the companion be withdrawn even for a moment, and the exuberant interest of the patient will fall a prey to the next suggestion his environment offers. Facility and fickle enthusiasm are the features of this stage. Acute Mania.—In acute mania the loss of function becomes more obvious. The patient is incapable of ideas and of purposive activities, even of the insane kind, which occurs in simple mania. Consciousness now is apj^arently on the Rolandic level. At least the patient's activities are almost entirely sensori-motor. She—for women offer the most exuberant symptoms of acute mania—has passed gradually from active ideas and projects, and the attention is occupied wholly with sense-perceptions or with simple movement, or with both. Over-attention to sights and sounds and smells—the sensory mode of acute mania—is in my opinion less desirable and apt to become a chronic insanity with hallucinations. As a rule, however, objects perceived excite an immediate motor response. The patient sings in answer to the birds, knocks over vases, shouts the name of each thing she sees, blows her nose fiercely at a smell, poses, jumps, and gestures appropriately to the stimuli of which she is conscious. And if this sensori- motor relation obtains, such a case is more easily led back, under appropriate treatment, to orderly and purposeful activities. Other cases, again, are of a predominantly motor type, whose muscular activities seem to be subjectively determined. The outward relation is at its acme in such cases, at least quantitatively. The patient dances and gestures like a dervish to the point of exhaustion, or talks or shouts or sings incessantly. In the latter case ideation is at a minimum, and words, not sentences, pour from her lips, though she may repeat set phrases or snatches of poetry or song. Quite often she will suffer a diarrhcea verborum, whose only coherence is a rhythmical or rhyming or allitera- tive or other non-ideational association. These are the cases most likely to become exhausted, and liable to end in stupor or in acute delirious mania or in dementia. Acute Delirious Mania.—BelVs Mania.—In acute delirious mania the reduction of cortical function is still greater, and is accompanied by grave bodily symptoms. The mental condition is one of delirium. The patient is unconscious of things around her as such. She stares at them, feels them, picks them, as in a dream, moves restlessly about in a wandering manner, as if looking for something, or as if trying to get away even through walls and doors, and only mutters if she speaks at all, or cries feebly or whines. And meanwhile she is physically exhausted and febrile, appetite is gone, the tongue is dry and heavily furred, there are sordes about the mouth, the breath is foul with an ante-mortem odour, the pulse fast and irregular, the respiration shallow, and not pro- portionately rapid. Sleep is impossible. The case is now one for most careful nursing and sustaining food, which usually must be adminis- tered by the tube; and, in my opinion, rest should be obtained by mechanical restraint. This condition sometimes develops rapidly, or, less commonly, follows a prolonged acute attack. The symptoms certainly suggest, over and above exhaustion, some cerebral toxication such as we suppose to be the part cause of other febrile insanities. No one knows whether the toxins are the products of extreme nerve waste or of paradigestion, or from some other source. Delusional Mania. — This condition, as Clouston observes, is to be distinguished from delusional melancholia and from chronic delusional insanity, only by the fact that the