IMMUNITY 344 down in the contused periosteum. Boils on the lips are known to be very dangerous, because the staphylococci gain access to the blood with unusual rapidity from tlie tissue of the cheeks, which are rich in lymphatics. B. Causes of Natural Kesistance to Bacteria We must, in the first place, mention the external protective appliances which retard the penetration of infective agents into the body. Provided there be no separation of continuity the external skin affords protection, which is, however, insufficient on inunction of the in- fective agent with mechanical pressure. There is a secdnd line of defence in the lymphatic glands, which mechanically retain the infective agents taken from the lymphatic vessels, and the organism is thus afforded time to rid itself of the virus by its further protective powers (vide infra). Intact mucous membranes are, for the most part, impervious to infective agents. Large quantities of virulent anthrax spores, for example, are required to infect guinea-pigs or mice by the intestinal canal, whilst very small quantities suffice to infect either subcutaneously or by the lungs if the infective material be finely pulverised. Other truly protective appli- ances of the body are the acid reaction of the normal stomach contents, the bactericidal pro- perties of the saliva, of the vaginal and urinary secretions, and so on. It is evident that the essential cause of natural resistance to bacteria does not consist in these external protective appliances, but in internal and somewhat complex conditions of the bodily organism of which we have as yet only an incomplete knowledge ; yet the facts which we do know are from the practical aspect those of the greatest importance. It was for- merly thought that infective agents could not multiply at all in a resistant organism on account of unsuitable food-supply. Such a conception is, as a rule, incorrect, for the bacteria usually multiply at first—for instance, in superficial wounds—yet after a time the multiplication ceases and recovery ensues. Hence the problem is as follows :—What are the factors which effect this change 1 by what means is the multiplication of bacteria inhibited whilst there is manifestly suitable pabulum for them in the tissues ? The change can only be induced by the direct action on the bacterium of the prophylactic appliances of the body two of which are known, viz. phagocytes and alexins. 1. Phagocytes, according to Metschnikoff (phagocytic theory since 1884), are in part wandering and in part fixed tissue cells, which, by throwing out protoplasmic processes, are capable of developing, of then digesting, and of thus removing infective agents which have penetrated into the body. The chief wandering phagocytes are the mono- and polymorpho- nuclear leucocytes (with the exception of the small lymphocytes and of Ehrlich's mast-cells), and the so-called wandering tissue cells; whereas many endothelial cells, especially Kupfer's star cells, the cells of the splenic pulp and of bone- marrow, sometimes also connective-tissue cells, and even nerve and muscle cells, act as fixed phagocytes. The first decisive observations were made by Metschnikoff in the fungus disease of the daphnia, a species of water-flea, where the fungus spores are devoiired by the leucocytes of the daphnia, and a cure thereby effected. Metschnikoff afterwards detected a similar pro- cess in frogs affected with anthrax, and more especially in them did he observe the death of anthrax bacilli inside the leucocytes of the frog, a process associated with swelling of and de- generative changes in the bacilli. By numerous observations Metschnikoff later on proved that phagocytosis may be perceived in the course of all infective processes, and more especially if the animal be resistant, i.e. if the process end in recovery. If micro-organisms are brought into direct contact with the phagocytes of a resistant organism—for example, if injected into the blood-vessels—they are then taken up by wandering or fixed phagocytes. Should the micro-organisms reach a part where there are few or no phagocytes, the subcutaneous tissue for instance, numerous leucocytes migrate to- wards the affected spot, and in vertebrates this process is facilitated by the inflammatory emi- gration. Thus the local deposition of bacteria induces a local reaction which indicates the inflammatory process. The cause of this im- migration consists, as proved by Leber, Massart, Bordet, and Buchner, in chemiotaxis of leuco- cytes, i.e. in the capability of their migrations being affected by the attractive influences of certain chemical substances. We make a dis- tinction between positive chemiotaxis (attraction) and negative chemiotaxis (repulsion). Buchner showed that dead bacteria, the proteid con- stituents of bacterial cells (bacterial proteins), and, lastly, certain closely allied chemical sub- stances, such as vegetable casein, are positively chemiotactic or attractive. The toxins of many virulent bacteria have a negative chemiotactic or repellent power, so that they are avoided by the phagocytes. Bacterial spores may also be engulfed by phagocytes, and even though not killed will yet be prevented from germinating. Metschnikoff has also proved that not only living but also virulent infective agents may be engulfed by phagocytes. Yet, when infective agents which have been enclosed in collodion sacs, and thus protected from phagocytes, are introduced into the tissues, they retain their vitality and virulence a long time, even though the animal be resistant. In natural resistance to bacteria phagocytosis is, according to Metsch- nikoff, developed to an exceptional degree, and is of such constant and regular occurrence that we