261 HYDATID DISEASE the deeper layers of the maternal ectocyst (Leiickart), the buds enlarge, push forward, and finally burst through the superficial layers of the maternal ectocyst. They form an ex- ternal cuticle for themselves, their central portion becomes liquefied just as in the case of the parent cyst, and the daughter-cyst may finally be completely separated from the parent cyst by the fibrous capsule of the former. E. exogenus is most common in the domestic mammals, especially the pig; whilst in man it is rarer, and has been found mainly in the bones and on the peritoneum, though in the liver or other organs also. 2. E. endogenus or E. hydatidosus, in which daughter-cysts lie within the parent cyst. The (0"l-4 mm. in diameter), enclosing clear granular substance, and separated from one another by a fibrous stroma, so that the appearance resembles that of a colloid carcinoma. The multilocular echinococcus has a tendency to degenerate at its centre and to become calcified. The line of separation between the echinococcus and the surrounding liver tissue is very irregular, and the liver is often bile-stained. This variety has also been found affecting the lungs, peritoneum, and brain, but is very rare in other situations. The spaces between the fibrous stroma, like the bladders of other echinococci, possess a lami- nated cuticle, but scolices are seldom developed. E. multilocularis probably originates, not in consequence of infection by many embryos, but Fig. 2.—Diagrammatic reprpspiitatiou of a proliferating eoliinococcus. Leucliart. Fk;. 3. -Hooli of Echinococcus veterinorum (xiiOO). Leuckart. Fig. Adnlt Taenia ecliino- coccus (X12). Letickart. Fig. 4. — Echino- coccus-head, with tlie anterior part of tlie heail iii- vagiiiated (x 90). Leuckart. daughter-cysts may be few in number and of globular form, or may number some hundreds or thousands, and then from mutual compres- sion exhibit irregular forms. They originate in retrograde metamorphosis of scolices and brood-capsules, which thereby assume the struc- ture and functions of daughter-bladders. If they be formed from brood-capsules the super- ficial parenchyma of the latter disappears, the scolices lose their form, and ultimately become a layer which is evenly distributed over the internal surface of the cuticle, thus forming a new parenchymatous layer. Daughter-cysts may also be formed from folds of the maternal parenchyma, portions of which form a cuticle, and become hollowed out internally in the same way as exogenous cysts. In either of these varieties granddaughter-cysts may arise from the daughter-cysts just as the latter do from the mother-cyst. 3. E. multilocularis is usually found in the human liver, and varies in size from that of a pea to that of a child's head. On section it is found to consist of numerous small spaces Fig. 5.—Development of brood-capsule.s (A) and of the appended heads; (B) fiist rudiment of the liead; (C) further development; (D) invagination (x fO). Leuckhart. from one embryo by repeated exogenous pro- liferation, a mode of development somewhat similar to that of the racemose forms of echino- cocci seen in the livers of cattle. The laminated ectocyst is highly elastic, and when incised curls upon itself. It possesses considerable capacity of imbibition, and contains chitin and a small amount of hyalin (Hoppe- Seyler). Hydatid, fluid is colourless, transparent, of neutral alkaline or faintly acid reaction, and has a specific gravity varying usually from 1009 to 1015. It usually contains 97-98 per cent H.,0, 0"5-0-8 per cent NaCl, succinic acid and inosite. The fluid may contain other constituents owing to the absorptive power of the ectocyst; the fluid of a hydatid in the liver may contain grape sugai', leucin, tyrosin, cholesterin, cystin, and hsematoidin, whereas in the kidney it may con- tain crystals of uric acid, oxalic acid, triple phosphates, and other earthy salts. The normal fluid never contains any coagulable albumin, which can as a rule, however, be detected if the cyst wall is inflamed or has been previously