IMMUNITY 365 not show cloudiness. Statistical proof of the curative action of the serum has been furnished from all sides; for example, Roux's experience is that since the introduction of curative serum the mortality has fallen from 50 per cent to 26 per cent. The decrease of mortality according to Heubner is from 44-3 to 21-1 per cent, according to Baginsky from 48-4 to 15-6, according to Ranke from 57 to 18'8, and according to Monti from 34 to 22 per cent. The joint inquiry of the Deutsche medicinische Wochenschrift showed that in 5833 cases treated with serum the mortality was 9*6 per cent, whilst it was 14'7 per cent in 4479 cases not treated with serum. Statistics also prove that the sooner treatment is begun the more favour- able are the results. The following are the results published by the German Imperial Board of Health, the investigations dealing with 204 hospitals in Germany for the period from April 1895 till March 1896 :— Total number of cases . . 9581 Total mortality . . . 15'5 per cent Mortality when treated on 1st day 6 "6 ,, „ ,, ,, 2nd „ 8-3 „ „ ,, 3rd ,, 12-9 ,, 4th „ 17-0 „ „ ,, 5th „ 23-2 „ after 5th „ 26-9 Behring's experience is that those cases of diphtheria in which treatment with a single curative dose (600 uiaits) is begun within forty- eight hours of the commencement of the disease will have a mortality of less than 5 per cent. Many doctors, moreover, maintain that the clinical course of disease is favourably influenced by the curative serum. There are those, how- ever, who hold a contrary opinion, which is perhaps due to the fact that in diphtheria there is often a mixed infection with streptococci, and that the latter are not influenced by the serum. But the majority of observations indicate that it is more especially in laryngeal diphtheria that injections of serum induce the most favour- able effect, the signs of stenosis usually dis- appearing rapidly after the injections. It cannot be denied that post-diphtheritic paralyses are as numerous since the introduction of serum treatment, or that they have become more frequent still; but this is possibly due to the fact that a greater number of severe cases recover now than formerly. It is often said that curative serum causes albuminuria. Accoi'ding to the statistics of the German Imperial Board of Health, two-thirds of the cases treated with serum had no albuminuria, although it is by no means of rare occurrence in diphtheria. Un- pleasant by-effects, such as skin rashes of an urticarial character, joint pains and swellings, can doubtless be caused by the diphtheria curative serum. The cause thereof is not the antitoxin, but the serum, which even when normal can induce such conditions in persons predisposed thereto. Such effects are in no way dangerous, but it would be well if the anti- toxin could be separated from the constituents of the serum and prepared in a pure form. Tetanus.—The prophylactic use of serum is of greater importance in tetanus than in diph- theria. Immunisation against tetanus was carried out by Nocard (1895-97) in 2373 horses and 332 other large animals. None of these succumbed, whilst during a similar period of time and under the same conditions there had previously been 191 cases of tetanus in horses and 68 cases in other animals. Immunisation, therefore, for which small doses costing but little are sufficient, is advis- able previous to any operations on the horse when cleanliness is a matter of difficulty, and also after such wounds as are known to be often followed by tetanus. In man, too, tetanus serum as a prophylactic agent is very useful after severe contused wounds contaminated with soil, dust, manure, etc. The duration of the immunity conferred is comparatively short except when horses are inoculated with tetanus serum obtained from horses. Behring and Knorr, injecting tetanus toxin into animals, have experimentally investigated the possibility of curing tetanus with serum. If only the minimum lethal dose be given it may be possible to save the animal by the introduction of serum even a considerable time afterwards. If, however, the intoxication be induced by a larger quantity of toxin—for example, 100 times the minimum lethal dose— the amount of antitoxin subsequently required becomes much greater. Even a quarter of an hour after the injection of toxin it is necessary, in order to effect a cure, to use 100 times as much antitoxin as would have sufficed to neutralise the same quantity of toxin had they been mixed in viti-o prior to injection; and very soon, long before any tetanic symptoms appear, it becomes impossible to save the animal. It is much easier to cure animals after they have been infected with tetanic spores, as occurs in natural infection, than when they have been poisoned with prepared toxin (Kitasato, Knorr), and such experiments prove that the antitoxin may really effect a cure even though symptoms of the disease have appeared. The difficulty of curing an advanced case of tetanus by means of serum is probably due to the fact that the toxin is soon absorbed by and bound to the tissues of the body, and the neutralising effect of the antitoxin thus inhibited. It has been shown in rabbits that to prevent the onset of tetanus a dose of serum, if given twenty-four hours after the injection of toxin, must be twenty-four times as great as that which suffices when given at the same time as the toxin (Donitz). This indicates that even in the first few hours the greater part of the toxin has combined with the tissues of the body, for otherwise subsequent neutralisation in the blood would be possible by