174 HEREDITY Dual NaUire of Inheritance.—It is a familiar fact that, apart from exceptional cases {e.g. asexual multiplication and parthenogenesis), the inheritance of a multicellular organism is dual, part of it coming from the mother and part of it from the father. The more we know in regard to fertilisation, the clearer does the general fact become that there is an intimate and orderly union of maternal and paternal contribiitions. Professor E. B. Wilson sums up the present state of opinion somewhat as follows :—As the ovum is much the larger, it is believed to furnish the initial capital—including it may be a legacy of food-yolk—-for the early development of the embryo. From both parents alike comes the in- herited organisation which has its seat (according to many) in the chromosomes of the nuclei of ovum and spermatozoon. From the father comes the centrosome which organises the machinery of cleavage and distributes the dual inheritance equally between the daughter-cells. Recent dis- coveries confirm Huxley's prophecy (1878):—" It is conceivable, and indeed probable, that every part of the adult contains molecules derived both from the male and from the female parent; and that, regarded as a mass of molecules, the entire organism may be compared to a web of which the warp is derived from the female and the woof from the male.'' " What has since been gained," Wilson says, " is the knowledge that this web is to be sought in the chromatic sub- stance of the nuclei, and that the centrosome is the weaver at the loom." Four saving clauses seem necessary at this stage in our discussion :— (1) What we have called the second great fact of inheritance does not imply that the dual nature of the inheritance must be joaiewi in the full-grown offspring, for hereditary resemblance is often markedly unilateral. (2) Though in- heritance is immediately dual, it is in quite as real a sense multiple, from ancestors through parents. (3) If Loeb is able to induce artificial parthenogenesis in sea-urchins' eggs exposed for a couple of hours to sea-water to which some magnesium chloride has been added ; if Delage is able to fertilise and to rear normal larvte from 71071-nucleated ovum-fragments of sea-urchin, worm (Lanice), and mollusc (Dentalturn), we should be chai-y of accepting too readily the conclusion that the nuclei are the exclusive bearers of the hereditary qualities. (4) The fact that an ovum without any sperm-nucleus, and an ovum-fragmeut without any but a sperm- nucleus, can in some cases develop into a normal larva, points to the conclusion, which other facts also suggest, that each germ-cell, whether ovum or spermatozoon, bears a complete equipment of liereditary ([ualities. Different Degrees of Hereditary Resemblance.— The big treatise of Prosper Lucas (1847) may be said to close tlic period of proving hereditary resenibhuice. It is now legitimately taken for granted tliat the ])resent is the child of tlie past, and that the past is represented in the child. An organism's start in life is vigorously determined by its parents and ancestors ; not only specific characters, but trivial idiosyncrasies —not only physical qualities, but mental as well—not only the normal, but the abnormal may be transmitted. At the same time, it should be noted that this department of the study of heredity is by no means closed; thus some morbid conditions are much more likely to be transmitted than others, and we ought to have statistical estimates of the probabilities of transmission in each case. And, again, there are some subtle qualities whose heritability must not be assumed without evidence. Thus it is of great importance that Karl Pearson has recently supplied, for certain cases, definite proof of the heritability of fecundit}', fertility, and longevity. The large fact of inlieritance which confronts us is the sensible stability of type from generation to generation. It is summed up in the familiar saying, " Like begets like." We know, however, that this saying is insufficient, since variation is as striking a fact as complete hereditary resem- blance. A variation may imply some incomplete- ness in the offspring's re-expression of the parents' hereditary qualities, or it may imply the appear- ance of something new,—some novel molecular arrangement in the germ-plasm. In any case it leads us to modify the familiar saying, and to state more cautiously that like tends to beget like. But this platitude does not sum up even our familiar experience, and thus we are led to consider the different degrees of hereditary resemblance, for which a confused classification and a troublesome terminology have been suggested. The three most important cases seem to be blended, exclusive, and particulate inheritance, (a) In blended inherit- ance, the characters of the two parents, e.g. in regard to a particular feature, such as the colour of the hair, are ultimately combined in the off'- spring. This is particularly well seen in some hybrids, and is probabh' the most fi-equent mode of inheritance, {b) In exclusive inheritance, the expression of maternal or of paternal characters in relation to a given feature, such as eye colour, is suppressed. The resemblance is unilatei-al, and often crossed, the son taking after the mother and the daughter after the father, {c) In ^Mrti- cnJate inheritance there is in the exj^ression of a given chai'acter a part which is wholly paternal and a part which is wholly maternal. Thus an English sheep-dog may have a paternal ej'e on one side, and a maternal eye on the other. Suppose the parents of a foal to be markedly light and dark ; if the foal is light-brown or grey the inheritance is blended ; if light or dark it is exclusive ; if piebald, it is particulate in its mode of inheritance for that featui'e. As ali'eady hinted, the different modes of in- heritance are often well illustrated in hybrids between different species or breeds. Tlie hybrid may be thoroughly intermediate between its