INFANT FEEDING 395 with some disorder or failure of nutrition in the infant. If it is found by repeated estimations that the proportion of fat is continuously low, an attempt should first be made to increase it by increasing the proteids in the mother's diet. For this purpose meat, poultry, or fish, and oat- meal porridge are valuable, and at the same time eggs and milk should be taken freely. As far as possible worry is to be avoided, and work or recreation must always stop short of fatigue. If these measures fail to increase the proportion of fat the deficiency must be made up by giving the infant two or three feeds daily of hot water and cream, or whey and cream (see " Artificial Feeding," p. 396), or if this is not convenient, cod-liver oil in doses of 10 to 20 drops according to the age of the infant may be given two or three times a day. Deficiency of fat is not to be regarded as a reason for weaning : fat can readily be supplied in an easily digestible form by supplementing the mother's milk as suggested, whereas if the child is weaned entirely it becomes necessary to supply proteids also, and experience shows that one of the chief difficulties in artificial feeding is to supply the proteids in a digestible form. Conditions in the Alother affecting the Milk.— The effect of menstruation and of pregnancy on lactation has already been considered. The milk may be diminished in quantity or lost altogether as the result of worry or mental shock. The quality of the milk is also some- times seriously affected by any strong emotion, such as fright, anger, or grief, and under these conditions the milk may cause severe gastro- intestinal disturbance in the infant. Where this occurs the infant should be fed artificially for one or two days if necessary, and then again tried at the breast. In some very emotional women the milk fluctuates so frequently in quality that it may be necessary to wean altogether. Effect of Drugs.—Certain drugs are found to be excreted partly in the milk, and may thus affect the infant. Of these the most important are belladonna and atropin, potassium iodide and bromide, salicylates, arsenic, and saline purgatives. There is some evidence that opium and morphia given to the mother may affect the infant, and in one case a fatal result has been recorded. Other drugs have occasionally been found in the milk, but not in sufficient amount to be of any practical importance. The administration of drugs to the mother for the sake of their action on the infant has little if any advantage, and has very obvious disadvantages; besides the unpleasantness to the mother, the effect on the infant is very un- certain, and there is no means of accurately regulating the dose which the infant obtains; it is far simpler and more effectual to give the drugs to the infant in the usual way. Weaning Time of Weaning.—This must be determined chiefly from the circumstances of the individual case. As a rule an infant should not be weaned earlier than the end of the ninth month, nor later than the end of the twelfth month. It is very unadvisable to wean during the hot weather; in the writer's opinion it is often better to con- tinue suckling even as late as the thirteenth or fourteenth month, if in this way weaning during the hot weather can be avoided. It is wise, also, not to wean at a time when teething is causing much disturbance; weaning should be done if possible in an interval between the cutting of teeth. Any transitory disorder, gastro-intestinal or otherwise, is usually sufficient reason for postponing the time of weaning. The conditions which may call for premature weaning have already been considered. Method of Weaning.—Weaning may be sudden or gradual. The sudden cessation of suckling is hardly ever to be recommended, except in those cases where the obstinate refusal of the infant to take artificial food as long as it is suckled makes it necessary to stop breast-feeding altogether. Gradual weaning is more satisfac- tory in everyway. The breast feeds are gradually replaced by artificial feeds, until at the end of four or five weeks all the meals consist of artificial food. The infant in this way gradually becomes accustomed to its altered diet, and digestion is much less likely to be upset. Many infants wean themselves : sometimes quite suddenly they seem to take a dislike to the breast, and refuse to suck; in some cases it is only one breast which the child refuses, and partial or entire suckling may be continued with the other. This refusal often occurs at a time when the milk is becoming scanty, at other times no cause whatever for the sudden dislike can be found. Wet-Nuksing W^here the mother is unable for any reason to suckle her infant the question arises whether a wet-nurse should be employed. There can be no doubt that, so far as the nature of the food goes, the only perfect way of replacing the mother's milk is by a wet-nurse; but the objections to this method are so very serious that it is now comparatively seldom used. The neglect of the nurse's own infant, possibly at the cost of its life; the immoral character of some of the women thus employed; the difficulty of excluding the presence of syphilis in women of whose previous histoiy nothing is known ;— these are some of the weightier objections, to which have to be added such minor points as the inconvenience to the household which the presence of such a nurse often involves, and the costliness of such a method of feeding. If it is decided to employ a wet-nurse she must first be thoroughly examined by the