HYDROCEPHALUS 274 when the disease commences after the skull has closed up; gradual enlargement of the head with opening up of the sutures are the im- portant points. Chronic hydrocephalus by itself, or in association with a cerebellar or other tumour, and without enlargement of the head, cannot be diagnosed with any certainty. Head- ache, paresis of limbs, exaggerated knee reflexes would probably be present, but it is needless to say these symptoms by themselves would not be distinctive. Prognosis.—This is always grave, whether the disease is primary or secondary. In the majority of cases which arise within the first few months the disease steadily progresses, and death occurs within the first two years ; in a few cases life is prolonged a few j'ears, but rarely beyond the sixth or seventh. In a minority of cases the enlargement of the head ceases, the skull closes up, but the head remains abnormally large. In a very small number of cases complete recovery appears to take place. This can only be expected in the early stages, and when the hydrocephalus is slight or modei-ate in degree. Complications. — Congenital cases of hydro- cephakis may be associated with other and somewhat similar lesions as spina bifida, meningocele, and encephalocele. In some instances there has been club-foot or hare-lip. Reference has already been made to a leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid from the cavity of the skull through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone into the nasal cavity. Treatment. — In all cases of primary hydro- cephalus, especially in those cases arising during the first few months of life, no time should be lost in commencing antisyphilitic treatment. The prospect of cure cannot be said to be very brilliant, but a certain pi'oportion of these cases are syphilitic, and cures have been apparently effected by mercury and iodides, and it is at least worth while trying if they are of service, especially in early cases. Half a grain to a grain of grey powder may be given twice daily with one to two grains of iodide of potassium. This treatment should be persevered in for many months. Apart from such treat- ment it cannot be said that drugs are of much use, and medicinal treatment becomes a treat- ment of symptoms. The Surgical Treatment of Hydrocephalus Surgery has chiefly concerned itself with the treatment of chronic internal hydrocephalus or chronic distension of the lateral ventricles, and principally with those cases which are due to some cause other than cerebral tumour. Occasionally need for surgical measures arises in cases which may be considered as examples of localised external hydrocephalus, where a collection of fluid is formed in some limited space either between the dura mater and the arachnoid or in the subarachnoid space so-called. Many of the instances of localised external hydrocephalus should rather be con- sidered as examples of cysts resulting from blood extravasations or as passive collections of fluid poured out to replace an atrophied or shrunken brain. Though occasionally such conditions may require operative treatment, they hardly come within the scope of the present article. Since the term acute hydrocephalus has been used as synonymous with acute meningitis due to tuberculosis or other conditions, the considera- tion of its treatment by operation must be briefly undertaken here, before the question of chronic internal hydrocephalus with which we are chiefly concerned is dealt with. Amte Hydrocejjhalus.—If the evil effect of an acute meningitis, whether traumatic or simple or tubercular, was due entirely to pressure by a localised collection of thin fluid which could be readily drained away, its treatment by operation would be comparatively simple and probably satisfactory, the chief difficulty would arise in finding the position of the fluid, but it is obvious that other factors come into play, the fluid is only a part of the exudation, which may be mainly composed of lymph, and this by pressure upon important structures may render futile the attempt to give relief by drainage. Further, the inflammation may have involved the brain tissue and not merely the surface of the meninges, hence drainage in many cases cannot be expected to do more at best than give partial and temporary relief. If, however, it is determined to try the effect of draining oft" the fluid, the attempt may be made either by trephining or puncturing the skull or by " lumbar puncture" (Quincke, Centralblatt fur Chirurg., 1892), i.e. tapping the spinal theca in the interspace between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrte, and thus either directly or indirectly the fluid effusion is drawn off. The question of draining for a longer or shorter period must be decided by the nature of the fluid ] if this is sero-purulent or purulent it would, no doubt, be wiser to make provision for drainage: if the object was merely to relieve a suddenly increasing intracranial pressure, the removal of a certain quantity of fluid at the time would possibly be sufficient. If the puncture was made for the purpose of clearing up a doubt as to the tuberculous nature of the disease by examination of the fluid, aspiration would be sufficient, and might also produce a beneficial effect analogous to that obtained by removal of the fluid from a tuberculous peritoneal cavity. For the performance of " lumbar puncture " it is only necessary to render the skin and syringe aseptic, and then with or without local or general anresthesia to pass the needle between the laminae of the third and fourth lumbar