HAY FEVER 52 Hay Fever. Introductory . . . . .52 Intra-Nasal Disease .... 52 Etiology 52 Symptoms ...... 53 Prognosis ...... 54 Treatment ...... 54 See also Adrenal Glands, Adrenalin (Uses); Asthma (Derivation); Cocaine (Uses). The study of hay fever is a matter of recent years, the first good account of it being written by a Dr. Blackley of Manchester in 1873. He was a great sufferer himself, and wrote an admirable brochure on it. He was the first to substantiate the point that the commonest source of irritation is the pollen of certain grasses, especially of ripe rye-grass. He also noticed the fact that it was only the few who experienced any discomfort from it, though all were equally exposed to it. The next writer on the subject was Dr. Beard of New York, who, five years after, pointed out that nearly all the patients were of the neurotic temperament, and that constitutional treatment directed towards the amelioration of this condition was often of considerable value. Then Dr. Marsh, also of New York, in 1877 published a paper on hay fever. He himself was susceptible only to the pollen of the common ragweed (artemisia), which blossoms only in the autumn in America. But he was obviously mistaken in supposing such patients were susceptible to this alone, as in that case the hay fever of those suffering in the spring would be unaccounted for. In the year 1882 Dr. Daly of Pittsburg contributed perhaps the most important theories of all, though he in his turn was practically misled. He maintained that hay fever was invariably due to morbid conditions of the nose, and that they could all be successfully treated by intra-nasal operations. But cases are frequently encountered in which the nose is absolutely normal, and such would be inexplicable on this supposition. Sajous in the following year made a contribution of some value, in which he corroborated Daly's theories, which were subsequently embraced by specialists all over the world—in Vienna by Hack, and in this country by Woakes, M'Bride, and many others. But Dr. J. N. Mackenzie of Baltimore advanced the theory that the coryza, as he con- siders it, is dependent upon some functional derangement of the nerve-centres rather than any abnormality in the mucous membrane. Then there appeared Morell Mackenzie's able treatise in 1885, in which he contended that there was no intra-nasal disease at all, and that the whole trouble was an idiosyncrasy dependent upon the general health. All these writers were practically right; and yet not one of them, as appears to me, has grasped the subject from a wide point of view. I think we may define hay fever, in the first place, as an idiosyncrasy which renders certain individuals abnormally sensitive to sources of irritation to which they, in common with the rest of their fellow-creatures, are exposed; which idiosyncrasy may be augmented, if not actually started, by abnormal conditions of the nose. Yet it must be admitted that we find many a case in which the mucous membrane is exquisitely sensitive to these unwarrantable sources of irritation, and, never- theless, in which we find no morbid condition Avhatever in the nose. Yet, again, although there may be abnormalities in the nose, they do not justify our saying that the hay fever is actually caused by such abnormal conditions. Rather may we assert that when the affection has persisted for many years it may actually lead to pathological conditions. Now I must enlarge a little further on these points. We may have abnormalities in the nose interfering with respiration, yet in themselves not necessarily pathological, but merely malfor- mations. We may have many forms of obstruc- tion to respiration from hypertrophy, such as spurs and deviations of the septum. These are common causes of obstruction, and when they occur to any extent they more frequently obstruct the inferior meatus. And it seems to me, rather from clinical observation than from any theoretical consideration, that it is essential that these patients should breathe easily through the inferior meatus. In all patients there is a strong instinct to breathe through the nose rather than through the mouth, often in spite of grave obstruction, though perhaps the instinct does not assert itself so forcibly in adults as in children. When the inferior meatus is obstructed, the inspired current of air, instead of passing along the less sensitive portions of the nose, is drawn up into the middle meatus, which is more sensitive and irritable than the lower. So that in many cases of hay fever the history is this : at the starting-point we have the idiosyncratic hypersesthesia, the consequence of which becomes more serious if the inferior meatus be obstructed; next, as the consequence of the continued irrita- tion, actual hyperplasia of the inferior turbinated bodies is induced. Yet we must admit on clinical grounds that these cases of real hyper- plasise offer as good a prognosis for surgical treatment as those in which the obstruction is structural rather than pathological. As to the conditions under which the affection may begin, we have predisposing causes as well as those immediately exciting. In the first place there is climate; hay fever occui's in temperate latitudes, being in tropical countries almost unknown. Then we find that the idiosyncrasy is confined to certain races, being especially found among the Anglo-Saxons and the associated portions of the Celtic race : the Irish are certainly not exempt. Heredity is a factor of the greatest importance. I have in I my books the case of a mother and two