347 IMMUNITY the cells of various forms of bacteria, because they likewise induce hjperleucocytosis (Buch- ner). The older tuberculin of R. Koch (1891) belongs to this class of substances, and is to be regarded as essentially the protein of the tubercle bacillus. The specific action which Koch supposed this tuberculin to possess is a very limited one. It induces hyperleucocytosis, however, and acts as an irritant on all the tissues of the body, but by careful dosage the irritation amounts to real inflammation with accumulation of leucocytes only in diseased parts where there is some pre-existing irritation. As bacterial protein is contained in the bac- terial cells, it is only natural that hyperleuco- cytosis and increase of resistance should be induced by the mere use of killed cultures of various bacteria. It was experimentally shown that subcutaneous injection of killed cultures of the pneumo-bacillus may effect a cure from anthrax (Buchner), and that in typhoid fever subcutaneous injection of sterilised cultures of the typhoid bacillus or B. pyocyaneus may sometimes be beneficial, and may considerably shorten the course of the fever (E. Frankel, Eumpf). Living bacteria of various kinds may consequently be introduced into the animal body ; they perish there, and excreting protein they induce hyperleucocytosis and increase the resisting power. Thus rabbits, after simultane- ous infection with anthrax bacilli and non-lethal streptococci of erysipelas, recover from anthrax (Emmerich). A similar recovery of rabbits from anthrax can be effected by means of B. pyocyaneus (Bouchard) or various other bacteria (Pawlowsky). For the same reason a severe intercurrent yet not fatal attack of ery- sipelas may induce recovery from pre-existing pulmonary tuberculosis (Schafer, Waibel, Mac- namara, Thornton, etc.). The injection of various apparently absolutely indifferent fluids, for example, physiological saline solution, bouillon, etc., into the peritoneal cavity of guinea-pigs may be followed by a temporary increase of natural resistance, which may even simulate a specific immunisation. Cinnamic acid is an agent exciting general hyperleucocytosis. Landerer has for several years successfully treated pulmonary tuber- culosis in man by the use of intravenous emul- sions of cinnamic acid. The fine particles of cinnamic acid circulating in the blood are deposited in those parts of the body where there are morbid tissue changes, hence in the tissue around tubercular foci. The results of the chronic inflammation in this instance are dilata- tion of capillaries, oedema and accmnulation of leucocytes; at a later stage a thick wall of leucocytes is formed, there is subsequent forma- tion of connective tissue, and lastly cicatrisation. Finally, we may note that a general increase of the natural power of resistance to bacteria may undoubtedly be aflected by general dietetic and hygienic measures, and the most convincing proof of this is afforded by the successful dietetic treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis at the present day. In this instance nutriment suit- able both in quality and quantity, suitable alternation in the use of the different organs, bodily activity, pure air, and all strengthening measures are of great importance. We may note more particularly that general hydrothera- peutic measures which attract great numbers of the leucocytes towards the skin may imdoubtedly be followed by general hyperleucocytosis. The same is obviously true in the case of sun and light baths, for there is no doubt that they too attract leucocytes towards the skin. 2. Local increase of natural resistance to bacteria is most easily effected by the artificial increase of blood-supply to the part in question. The resistant power of a part may possibly be increased because it is better nourished by blood. Yet the blood must not be regarded solely as a means of transport for nutriment, for it has also, in proportion to the leucocytes and alexins it contains, an important absorptive action on diseased structures, and also, of course, against their causal agents. The experience gained by increasing the blood-supply to diseased parts of the body, such as the limbs, entirely corroborates this view. The most important results in this respect have been obtained by Bier, who was the pioneer of the successful treatment of tuberculosis of joints and bones by means of chronic venous congestion. The following methods of inducing increased blood- supply have been employed :— {a) Venous congestion of a limb by means of elastic compression. This method may be bene- ficial not only in tuberculosis, but also in gonor- rhoeal infection of joints, and in acute and chronic articular rheumatism. (i) Arterial hyperajmia is best induced by hot air (100°-150° C. with a special apparatus) ; for articular rheumatism and arthritis defor- mans. (c) Mixed hyperaBmia induced by Bier's suction apparatus ; for chronic articular rheumatism. {d) Increased arterial flow without evident external hyperaemia is caused by the permanent application of alcoholic bandages. Such bandages were first employed by Salz- wedel in cellulitis, lymphangitis, whitlows, boils, mastitis, etc., and with splendid results. In many cases an excellent recovery from tuber- culosis affecting bones or joints may follow the permanent use of alcoholic bandages. This action cannot be duo, as was supposed, to any direct disinfection by means of the alcohol, for alcohol cannot penetrate deeply into the tissues, and moreover the presence in the tissues of any direct chemical disinfectant is well known to be favourable to bacteria, which, because of their protective membranes, are always more resistant to antiseptics than are the tissue elements.