HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 89 tive of the degree of engorgement of the liver, but may arise from an intercurrent attack of gastro-intestinal catarrh, which is by no means rare in cardiac affections. In some cases of malignant endocarditis well - marked icterus appears, and very intense jaundice is often seen towards the end of mitral cases. Toxaemia occurs in the final stage of some few heart cases, particularly malignant endocarditis ; but in the greater number of forms of cardiac lesion there is not much evidence of toxic in- volvement unless CO2 be included. Nutritional changes are specially noticeable in congenital heart disease, or lesions established early in life, " clubbed fingers" particularly becoming very marked. In a few cases of aortic incompetence failure of nutrition occurs for which there is no obvious cause. Rupture of the heart, although sometimes de- scribed as "spontaneous," is probably in most if not in all cases to be looked upon as a terminal result of antecedent disease. Usually lesions of the coronary vessels are present, but these and the changes observed in the myocardium are referred to elsewhere. Sudden death is one of the most striking of the pathological and clinical effects of cardiac ■disease. It is, however, not usually so frequent as is generally considered to be the case. It is rare for death to occur without some evidence of cardiac embarrassment having been present. In not a few cases, however, the final stages may be rapidly passed through. More usually cardiac failure is progressive, and takes time for its evolution. In valvular affections sudden death is peculiarly associated with aortic incompetence. We have also met with several instances of sudden cardiac failure in aortic stenosis, a lesion not usually supposed to lead to such a termina- tion. In mitral affections death is generally slow. In some cases of muscle failure sudden death is by no means infrequent. Degenerate conditions of the myocardium, as in the notorious "fatty heart," and disease of the coronary arteries also frequently lead to a like conclusion, in the latter case angina pectoris supervening. A consideration of the intrinsic effects of cardiac lesions, such as hypertrophy, dilatation, and other changes involving the myocardium and endocardium, may be best left until the more important individual lesions are described. The mechanism of compensation will be more clearly understood after the various special valvular lesions have been dealt with. B. SPECIAL PATHOLOGY Having now completed our general survey of the etiological factors of heart disease, and con- sidered the morbid processes and their effects, it becomes necessary to describe the individual lesions met with in the more important cardiac affections. I. Enuocarditis Definition.—An inflammatory process involv- ing the internal or lining membrane of the heart, and especially the valves. General Etiology.—Considerable uncertainty exists as to the relative importance to be attached to the different causal factors, and hence a perfectly satisfactory etiological group- ing is not at present available. Manifestly the irritant must in all cases reach the endocardium by means of the blood. In most forms of endo- carditis mici'o-organisms have been discovered, and many pathologists claim that all varieties are of microbic origin. The so-called " malig- nant " cases are undoubtedly due to parasitic invasion, and hence to them the term "infec- tive " is strictly appropriate. The exact cause, however, of the " simple " or " benign " forms, such as are more particularly associated with acute rheumatism, still remains obscure, and is likely to continue so until the true nature of the rheumatic excitant is demonstrated. Some pathologists hold that while " malignant" or " infective" endocarditis is due to virulent micro-organisms, "simple" or "rheumatic" endocarditis results from the action of attenu- ated forms. However this may be, certainly both pathological and clinical gradations can be traced in the forms of endocarditis, and there is something in favour of the view that the varying lesions really represent different degrees of in- tensity of essentially the same process. But it is quite possible that certain toxins, including the more or less hypothetical " rheumatic" toxin, are capable of initiating the morbid con- dition. It will thus be manifest how desirable it is at present to lay aside hard and sharp definitions, and to use our available groupings mainly as means whereby a more intimate know- ledge of the diffei-ent etiological factors may be attained, and a more perfect classification rendered possible. Classification.—It has long been customary to distinguish (1) simple or benign from (2) malignant endocarditis, and on clinical as well as pathological grounds such division may well be retained, and in accordance with the same we shall consider the two varieties separately. Other classifications are also adopted:—1. According to the severity and duration—(i.) acute, (ii.) subacute, and (iii.) chronic. 2. Dependent upon localisation—(i.) valvular and (ii.) mural. 3. When the lesion appears origin- ally strictly local, and there is no evidence of any channel of infection, it is conveniently spoken of as—(i.) primary or protopathic, while in the majority of cases it is manifestly (ii.) secondary or deuteropathic. 4. According to the character of the lesion cases are divided into (i.) warty or verrucose, (ii.) polj'pous or villous, (iii.) ulcerative, and (iv.) suppurative. Com- bined forms are also frequent. 5. Judged by