INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 481 failure of normal personality with all that that entails. The primary lesion is in the mechan- isms of sane character and sane conduct which have gone by the board, leaving an activity in lower mechanisms by which we designate the disease. It has been suggested by many authorities —Bevan Lewis, for example—^that clinical varieties of insanity are not to be regarded as essential, that they are "purely artificial or arbitrary divisions," that the pathological process, vascular or nervous, is the important thing. The practitioner, however, wants first to know what the clinical developments in any given case are likely to be, and he is right in insisting upon that knowledge. For in all nervous affections the site of the lesion is as important as the lesion. It is important for our knowledge of disease to distinguish between thrombosis and glioma, between apoplexy, em- bolism, and sclerosis. But in each case the consequent impairments are part of the illness, and what they will be depends upon the site and size as well as upon the nature of the lesion. And these things are still more true of the lesions of insanity. We may safely defy any one to predict the differences in the course of a mental disease which is due to slow vascular obliteration, and one which is of the nature of a slow neural atrophy. The differences that we recognise are chiefly differences in the positive secondary symptoms. Abeyance of normal personality is the prime fact in all episodic insanities. Thereafter the course of the disease depends upon what groups of lower functions become too active, and that is an affair of anatomy—a topical factor. That experiment and disease have localised and demonstrated the Rolandic centres does not make them more real. Hughlings Jackson and others knew of their existence long before. And similarly, recognising as we must a domestic mode of consciousness, for example, a fugitive, an amorous, a constructive, we are bound to infer a systematic mechanism for them; and our knowledge of it will not be greatly en- hanced even if, as seems unlikely, some one should demonstrate their position and form. There are exceptional cases, but the vast majority of insanities are only intelligible as systematic secondary affections. Were con- sciousness and its mechanism not systematic there would be, as I have said, no clinical types of insanity. Melancholia.—Melancholia is characterised by an abeyance of interest in things in general. That is the primary fact, the negative symptom. Following that loss of habitual conduct and of interest, the patient becomes self-absorbed, dwells upon his misery, seeks to find some explanation for it, or perhaps tries to put an end to it by insane violence. In any case he cannot forget his pain, and that self-regarding VOL. IV mode of consciousness is the secondary, the positive, fact in his case, and it is constantly present in melancholia. Moreover, this mode of consciousness is not fortuitous. It is deter- mined by subconscious system. Self-regard to an insane degree is provided for by inherited cerebral mechanisms, and would predominate in all human minds but that higher interests and activities overrule and prevent it. Melan- cholia is the simplest, the most likely result of insanity. Its primary features are, as I have said, a loss of physical energy, an anergia, so that the patient is not fit for usual activities, and a loss of interest in life, so that the mind does not attend to affairs. A very slight investi- gation will reveal these facts. A melancholic is habitually tired, and if compelled to undergo great exertion will certainly become worse, and probably proceed to mania or to dementia. But the exhaustion is most notable in the highest functions, such as are normally concerned with the conduct of life. Hence, as Dr. Mercier points out (p. 507), the direct benefit of a complete relinquishing of all responsibilities and duties. In many cases the nervous depression is due to bodily disorder, but at the same time the failure of the functions of personality induces or occasions physical de- terioration, and we can never exactly say how much of the depression of bodily functions is a cause and how much an effect. The fact remains that a little inquiry will reveal disorder in nearly every system—dyspepsia, constipation, and anorexia, a variable heart, a soft pulse, cold, and perhaps swollen extremities, diminished secretion of urine, dry skin and hair, a loss of weight, sleeplessness, muscular irritability and flabbiness, diminished surface sensibility, exaggeration of deep reflexes, and often neu- ralgia, stiffness of muscles, and difficulty and slowness in executing fine movements. The loss of outward relation is the central and primary impairment of mental function— the abeyance of object consciousness, as Bevan Lewis designated it. The melancholic is interested in nothing and in nobody in his neighbourhood. He neglects duties and pleasures alike, and forsakes his habitual occu- pations. When the disease is advanced even striking events pass almost unnoticed, and emergencies induce no response. That of course betokens a serious failure of personality. Thereupon lower forms of nervous activity become apparent, chief of which is the self- regarding mode of attention — the rise of subject consciousness. That is one definite phase of subconsciousness. The mind, on relinquishing usual affairs, might become occu- pied with the unusual, as on a holiday, or in delusion, or in mania. In melancholia it becomes occupied with itself; and a per- sistence of that form of consciousness is in- evitably associated with unhappiness. Pleasure 31