319 HYSTERIA four hours after the attack be examined, there is found a reduction of the average amount of uric acid and phosphates, with inversion of the formula of these latter. The total solid, which normally averages from 40 to 52 grammes, is lowered to 35-38 grammes; the uric is lowered to 13 gr. instead of being 20 gr.; the phosphoric acid is 1*2 gr. instead of 2-2 gr., as in the inter- paroxysmal period. Whilst in normal urine the soluble phosphates and alkalies are as 1 to 3, after the attack they are as 1 to 1. This modi- fication is called inversion of the phosphatic formula; the same urinary formula is found in attacks of partial or ordinary epilepsy, chorea, delirium, stupor, and other mental disorders. The i study of general nutrition leads us to observe hysterical fever. Its existence has been disputed, as a fever can be so easily simulated, but recent researches undoubtedly prove its existence. The variations of temperature are identical with the different known forms — remittent, intermittent, continuous, and some- times polymorphic, changing quickly from inter- mittent to continuous. The rise of temperature may be considerable, reaching 41°, and even more. From a clinical point of view there are two very distinct forms : one in which hyper- thermia exists alone, without other symptoms—• the so-called hysterical fever—often accompanied with convulsive phenomena; the other form is accompanied by certain visceral disorders, and simulates other maladies, such as typhoid fever, meningitis, pulmonary tuberculosis, peritonitis, and malaria. This hysterical fever differs from infectious fevers in its irregularities, the absence of the usual serious symptoms, and its resistance to antipyretics; it should be considered as equivalent to an attack. The diagnosis of hysterical fever is a diagnosis by exclusion, but it should only be arrived at after careful con- sideration, as many organic disorders begin with hysterical manifestations. Disorders of the Mental State We have already spoken of the delirium which follows an hysterical attack, and we shall now study the mental condition between the paroxysms. This mental condition is one characterised by modifications of memory and will power. Derangements of memory are frequent, and cause the patient to make con- flicting and contradictory assertions. Pierre Janet has made an exhaustive study of amnesia and its different modifications. (1) It is system- atised, not confined to one given period in the life of the individual, but to a group of recol- lections ; for example, it causes an individual to forget a foreign language or proper names. (2) It is localised, and causes the individual after some severe shock or accident to forget events accompanying or preceding the event. (3) It is generalised; the individual has then to be taught everything like a child. (4) It is anterio- retrograde, that is to say, the individual forgets events as soon as they happen. In spite of this amnesia the intellect remains intact, but the power of attention is enfeebled. The will is often as much disturbed in hysteria as the memory; automatic actions are un- consciously accomplished, but voluntary actions, such as a new piece of work, are impossible. This loss of will power is very marked in hysteria, and explains the facility with which the patient responds to suggestion. The emotions and affections are often disturbed; sometimes the hj'sterical patient is excited, easily affected, and exceedingly irritable; at other times he is indifferent, sad, melancholy, and depressed; in both cases the emotional reaction is ex- aggerated and out of proportion to the cause. Hysterical subjects are sometimes accused of being liars, hypocrites, dipsomaniacs, etc., but these faults ought rather to be placed to the account of the mental degeneracy resulting from hysteria than ascribed to the subjects themselves. The question of legal responsibility in hysterical mental troubles is a difficult one. If criminal acts are committed during a paroxystic crisis the personal irresponsibility is incontestable, but if they take place during an interparoxystic period the personal irresponsibility is not quite so clear. Clinical Forms of Hysteria.—Hysteria may appear in a convulsive form, or in a mono- symptomatic form, in which case stigmata should be carefully searched for to prove the diagnosis. The clinical picture varies accord- ing to age; the convulsive reactions are less violent in the old—in whom they exist often in a masked state. The case of children is different, and merits a special description. Infantile Hysteria.^—Infantile hysteria has very special manifestations owing to the brain conditions present in infancy. During infancy the brain develops very rapidly, the convulsive reactions are numerous, and at this period there is a continual growth of new and violent sensa- tions ; the nervous system is in a state of con- stant erythism. Education is an all-important factor in the nervous development of the child, and should the parents be of a changeable and unstable character, and the servants coarse and unintelligent, the child's predisposition to nervous disorders will be intensified. Such causes as abnormal pliysical growth, over-study, helminthiasis, and teething, all tend to develop these nervous disorders iu the predisposed subject. The hysteria of early infancy must be distinguished from that of later years and adolescence. With the nursling many disorders attributed to teething are really hysterical. Not a few nervous disorders encountered in infancy where the disturbance exceeds in in- tensity the degree of reaction normal at that age, and which cannot be explained by an ^ See also " Hysteria iu Children," p. 325.