INFLUENZA 429 As bearing on the diagnosis of this case, it is to be noticed that four—if not five—of the other members of this lady's family suffered from influenza either immediately before or after her illness. Appended is the clinical chart. The foregoing case illustrates the fact that influenza, while infrequently directly fatal, causes an indirect loss of life which is appalling, chiefly through complications affecting the respiratory, and, in advanced life, the circulatory systems. It has been said that influenza, while relatively less fatal, is absolutely more fatal than cholera. The writer has seen fatal cases of influenzal bronchitis, pneumonia, pleuritis, and heart failure. The pneumonia, while producing the ordinary physical signs of acute croupous pneumonia, is often latent in its course, or accompanied by a profuse muco-purulent ex- pectoration, with scarcely any rusty sputa. The ebbing of the strength in some of these cases in elderly people is something awful—it is often absolutely beyond control. Younger subjects have a better chance of " pulling through." For example, a young lady, aged nineteen, was suddenly attacked with shivering, headache, and high temperature, with very rapid pulse, on Friday, December 6th, 1889. The fever lasted a few days, and then gave way, to be followed by a second rigor on Friday, December 20th, and urgent chest symptoms. On visiting her with Dr. Usher of Dundrum on the 22nd, her pulse was 124, respirations were 36, and the temperature 102-7° at 3 P.M. The left base was solid. Great dyspnoea, tubular breathing, and marked bron- chophony were present. She was bringing up an abundant muco-purulent sputum—like that of bronchiolitis rather than acute lobar pneu- monia. It was examined by Dr. Bewley, who reported that no tubercle-bacilli were present, but that various putrefactive microbes were found. On December 26th, her pulse was 120, respirations had risen to 48, and the temperature at noon was 101-6°. Dr. James Little saw her with Dr. Usher and me next day, when we found a new patch of pneumonic consolidation in the middle of the right back, and there were a few rusty-tinged sputa. From this time she steadily recovered, and went to Bournemouth with her father on January 23rd, 1890, "pretty nearly all right," as he expressed it in a letter to me. III. The Gastric Type. — On Wednesday, January 8th, 1890, Mr. W. B. S. enjoyed a day's shooting in the County Wicklow. 'The following day he returned to town in his usual good health; but in the afternoon felt chilly, com- plained of headache and nausea, and felt utterly miserable. He went to bed early, but passed a wretched night—restless and sleepless. Next morning he complained of pains in the eyeballs, back of the head, and small of the back. Pulse, 84 ; temperature, 99-9" ; tongue thickly coated ; complete loss of appetite and nausea. He felt entirely prostrate, and expressed his belief that some fish which he had eaten for dinner had thoroughly disagreed with him. Two miserable days of sickness followed, the temperature rising on the morning of the 5th day to 103-1°. A short cough had set in, and the eyes were suff'used and tender. There was constipation, and he complained of weight and fulness in the pit of the stomach. Dr. James Little saw him with me and thought it likely that the fever would run on for some time. A quiet day gave promise of a restful night, and this promise was abundantly fulfilled. He had an excellent Chart II.—Mr. W night, partly due to 20 grains of phenazone, with 20 minims of tincture of gelsemium in a draught in four divided doses at bedtime. Next morning, pulse 76 ; temperature 98-7°, rising to 100-2° in the evening, but without any return of restlessness. Subnormal temperatures followed for a few days—96-4° being one obser- vation. The tongue cleaned very slowly, and several days of extreme languor and weakness preceded final convalescence. This gentleman's wife had, a few days pre- viously, suffered from influenza, from which she was recovering when he fell ill. She nursed him and got a relapse, accompanied with cough, bronchial catarrh, and absolute loss of appetite. It is right to mention that Mr. S. had been subject to occasional "bilious attacks," as he described them. Except for these he had not known a day's sickness from his boyhood, and did not recollect when he had been obliged to keep his bed even for a day. IV. The Febrile 'Type.—On New Year's Eve 1889 I received a note from a surgical colleague asking me to see him, as he had been taken ill the same afternoon while in his study. On visiting him in bed, he was still shivering at