HEART, NEUROSES OF 157 continue for very varying periods of time. So- called "palpitation of the heart" is usually a transient acceleration of the heart's action, but being usually of short duration, and the ac- celeration in many cases not excessive, it has not been classed with tachycardia proper, of which at least three varieties exist. These are: (1) A considerable acceleration associated with certain nerve-lesions, to which reference will be made again; (2) A long-continued acceleration without such lesions; and (3) An excessive acceleration of comparatively short duration, arising suddenly and, as a rule, ceasing as suddenly, and usually associated with a detect- able degree of cardiac dilatation, to which Bouveret in 1889 applied the term essential paroxysmal tachycardia. The influence of sex is more evenly divided between the male and female in tachycardia than in bradycardia, and its commencement or occurrence in earlier life than the latter condi- tion has also been remarked. The condition may, however, be met with in its most typical and paroxysmal form in comparatively advanced life, as in the fifth or sixth decade. These facts appear to argue its essentially neurotic character, as the nervous system of the child and of woman are more mobile than that of man as a rule, and the catabolic or quickened action of the heart is, on the whole, a more frequently- witnessed physiological phenomenon than ana- bolism or retardation. Neurasthenia, or that gradual and general loss of reserve force in the nervous system which is usually associated with exaggerated reflexes, mental and bodily, is particularly conducive to paroxysmal outbursts of accelerated cardiac action. Cardiac overstrain may, in this case, as in the case of other forms of disordered cardiac motion, be an important causal factoi'. External agencies, such as bella- donna and tobacco, may likewise induce the condition. Tachycardia is indeed of the bella- donna type of poisoning, as bradycardia is of the opium type. Certain cardiac valvular defects likewise conduce to the occurrence of tachycardia. It has been remarked that brady- cardia may be associated with aortic lesions, and that aortic lesions are generally associated with less acceleration than mitral lesions. The mitral type of cardiac action is, on the other hand, tachycardial, and we shall learn that cardiac dilatation, with mitral insufliciency, is not infrequently observed in paroxysmal tachy- cardia. The fact that one of the functions of the pneumogastric nerve is cardiac inhibition, and the fact, likewise, that pressure upon these nerves by neoplasms or other growths is fre- quently associated with a measure of tachycardia, have led to the maintenance of the " vagus theory" of the condition, the action of that nerve being assumed to be more or less ham- pered, or in abeyance, under these circumstances. It must be remembered, however, that both physiologists and surgeons have shown that injury of one of these nerves has little permanent eftect upon the heart's action, while injury of both is usually soon fatal. Herringhani inclines to the opinion that not the nerve as a whole, but its peripheral endings, are at fault in tachy- cardia. Others have regarded it as an affection of the sympathetic nerves of the heart, and yet others as due to disease of the myocardium. Regarding the muscle cell as the ground common to the nerve-endings both of the vagus and sympathetic nerves, and as having a rhythmicality in a measure independent of either, it seems possible that there may be an emancipation of cellular rhythmicality from all nerve control in excessive paroxysmal cases; while in others, characterised by acceleration and augmentation, or by increased force with less rapidity, that the catabolic nerves may be active agents in producing the condition, the action of the retardant nerves being for the time in abeyance, but accumulating that energy which at last suddenly asserts itself in the restoration of slower action to the heart. We must be on our guard, however, not to throw the reins on the neck of imagination when we enter that area of neural exposition which has been termed the refuge of the destitute in search of theories. The occurrence of such disorders in children whose organic cells are presumably normal, and the probable dependence of organic irregularities in some cases on reflex causes outside the organ most notabl}' affected, seem to leave the initi- ative in such processes to the nervous system. Hence the justification for regarding these con- ditions as neuroses. Symptomatolofiy.—An accelerated palpitation of the heart with a sense of " fluttering " in the prsecordial region, coming on without observable cause or after slight exertion, is a common phenomenon in ansemic persons, \isually young, and as usually females. While this common condition is not that which has been raised to the dignity of a disease by the style and title of tachycardia, it is, nevertheless, a humble attempt in that direction. Could it succeed in persisting longer—for days, months, or it may be years, with an average pulse-rate of 120 or 130 in the minute, without other observable disorder, the condition would constitute persistent tachy- cardia. This state may for long be associated with little subjective sense of physical discomfort or general functional inactivity, and be indicated by no other fact than a persistent rapidity of pulse, perhaps accidentally detected. In course of time, however, even these cases tend to give out, and the tachycardiac patient becomes un- fitted for the exertion hitherto undei-gone with apparent impunity. Functional disturbances of secretion and excretion manifest themselves, and sleep, the great recuperator of the nervous system, may become defective and unrefreshing.