HEART, NEUROSES OF 161 of regular recurrence, and give rise to the cardiac and radial pulse evidences of coupled and tripled beats {Figs. 4 and 7). In some cases the patient, when recumbent, evinces the coupled beat at the wrist and a quadruplication of sounds at the heart, which may be rendered phonetically as lup—dup—lup—diip, and on assuming the erect position, the heart's action being quickened, the pulse becomes regular at the wrist and the cardiac sounds may be rendered as lup—lup— dup. The acceleration of the heart in this case obliterates the first diastolic pause in the coupled beat, and the change is marked by an anachrotism of the pulse not previously- present (Figs. 11, 12, and 13). The objective signs of arrhythmia may be associated with no subjective discomfort on the part of the patient. On the other hand, a forcible irregularity of the heart may give the sense of palpitation, and well-marked inter- missions are also frequently felt by the patient at the moment of their occurrence. The heart is felt to " stop," as patients at times remark. It is unnecessary to state that these objective and subjective signs may also be associated with other evidences of cardiac failure, local and general, such as valvular bruits, and various somatic and visceral forms of venous stasis. They may also manifest themselves without any of the notable signs of cardiac debility. Diagnosis.—Arrhythmia, as its name denotes, is essentially irregular pxdsation. It may be too quick a pulsation of the heart, with inter- vals of slower pulsation, and this irregularity is one of the means of distinguishing it from tachycardia. It is never likely to be confused with bradycardia, although in some cases, as has been stated, it may give place to a per- sistent domination of the latter sign. The diagnosis of tachycardial arrhythmia from per- sistent tachycardia may also be made by observ- ing the effects of treatment by posture and drugs. The heart-rate of the former is more certainly reduced than that of the latter. The discrimination of tachycardial arrhythmia with functional bruit, usually soft and mitral systolic, from the same condition in association with organic valvular disease due to rheumatic endo- carditis, is also important. As Huchard has pointed out in the former case, the bruit is a consequence of the disoi'der of cardiac motion and late in appearing, while in the latter the bruit is of early occurrence, and usually noted before the arrhythmical phenomena manifest themselves. In many cases, moreover, the func- tional bruit is due to mitral insufficiency from cardiac dilatation of a temporary kind, while the organic naturally persists, however much the heart may receive muscular compensation. Indeed, the more compensated the heart be- comes, the more audible, in many organic cases, is the bruit. Pathology.—The ultimate disappearance of VOL. IV arrhythmia in many cases, and at various periods of life, leads to the conclusion that it may sometimes depend upon transient condi- tions affecting one or more of the three factors in organic action, which do not leave permanent and recognisable traces in the heart. As, how- ever, a large proportion of persistent cases occur within the arterio-sclerotic period of life after the fifth decade, it is not surprising to find that Fig. 11.—Arrhytliraia with asystole. Fifi. 12 —Arrhythmia witli quadruplication of heart sounds when recumbent. Fig. 13.—Another of the same. Fig. 14.—Triplication of heart sounds in the same patient when erect. interstitial and myocardial changes, fibrosis, pigmentation, fatty degeneration of the heart, together with more general arterio-sclerosis, are associated with many cases of persistent ar- rhythmia. Inasmuch, however, as all these states may occur in an aggravated degree, and with every phase of cardiac failure, without the patient manifesting arrhythmical action of the heart, it follows that causes still largely unex- plained lie at the bottom of the disordered action of the heart. Of the intimate pathological changes in car- diac innei'vation, and in the innervation of other viscera, little more is at present known than has been already mentioned, but the more system- atic examination of this point after death, and the more regular examination of the blood in such cases during life, are calculated to afibrd useful and much-needed information. There can be little doubt that the toxins generated by the germs of such infectious diseases as influenza may exact a morbific influence upon the visceral 11