HYSTERIA, SURGICAL ASPECTS OF 331 sive, that is to say, greater than is met with in actual disease, all movement being strongly resisted. Sometimes it is possible to see the patient stiffening the limb in anticipation of the surgeon's manipulations. In such cases, if the patient's attention be diverted by conversation, the limb may be gently yet freely moved. In this connection I may refer to the position which the limb may assume. Paget says, " Subjective intensity of pain brings about the same postures as are assumed instinctively for the relief of pain." He also points out that there may be unwilling or unconscious imitation. This we should always bear in mind. Barker says that the limb assumes the position commonly observed in disease. This, however, is not always the case. 4. Sivelling.—Swelling is said to be conspicu- ous by its absence. My own experience is that there is generally an appearance of swelling of the affected joint and also of wasting of the muscles of the limb. But both these conditions are more apparent than real in hysterical affections. Swelling of a joint is made more apparent by muscle wasting, as in other affections. Careful measurements and comparisons with the other limb will demonstrate that the joint is practi- cally the same as the other. There may be some puffy swelling, but that is generally slight. Wasting of the limb, however, is usually present to a certain extent. This is only what one would expect from the limb not being used as much as the other one. But there is something- more that has to be taken into consideration. There seems to be a possible simulation of atrophy, a hysterical shrinkage (if one may use the teruj) that occurs, and is very apt to mislead. This disappears under the influence of an ansesthetic. A hysterical limb may, however, be quite plump, with a good layer of subcutaneous fat. Such a state of matters should make one suspi- cious. But I have, on the other hand, seen cases of tuberculous disease in which there was a fair amount of fat on the affected limb. Lastly, one may meet with hysterical oedema; that is to say, fictitious oedema that may dis- appear under an anaesthetic, and is not therefore due to disease. Charcot describes this hysterical cedema. I have myself seen it in a case which I published in The Hospital in 1894. Now let us still suppose that we have our patient before us. We have carefully examined the case, especially locally, tested the pain, the temperature, the rigidity, the apparent swelling and atrophy. If we still have any doubt we should employ a general anassthetic. There may be some incipient or latent affection, the symptoms of which are very slight, or perhaps masked by the hysterical condition of the patient. Suppose the patient to be under the influence of chloroform. If the symptoms resembling disease gradually disappear, and as gradually reappear as the patient comes out, then we may presume that the case is hysterical. If, on the other hand, we discover some evidence of disease, such as grating, we can be quite sure that disease is present. One should not forget that in a hysterical patient there may be great exaggeration of a symptom, such as pain. This is not a case of hysterical joint, but of joint disease in a hysterical patient, and has to be treated as such. We should also remember that a long continuance of hysterical conditions may bring about actual disease. Mr. Holmes says that the influence of the mind on the body is so powerful that it " may lay the foundation of organic disease." Before leaving this subject of diagnosis let me say that there is one thing, which I cannot call a symptom, very characteristic of hysterical affections, and on which I have very much relied in forming my diagnosis. It cannot be put in one word. It is the presence, more frequently the absence, of some symptom which would not be absent or present in the disease which is being simulated. In other words, the symptoms are not according to type, they are not convinc- ing, they have not the ring of truth about them. One's suspicion is aroused. Something is here that should not be, or something is awanting that ought to be here. Paget says, " The absence of symptoms should be weightier than the pres- ence." Mr. Holmes says that the local symptoms show contradiction or inconsistency. Another way of putting the matter is, in the graphic words of Paget, " There are sensation signs of disease without a single mark of any organic change produced by them." That is to say, you don't find grating, unnatural mobility, osseous thickening, pulpy synovial membrane, actual swelling, or such like conditions which, if present, would prove decidedly diagnostic of disease.^ Now, at the risk of repetition, I must put the case again shortly. To reach a correct diagnosis the surgeon must examine the joint (or other part) carefully, with an unbiassed mind, and with the object distinctly before him of dis- covering disease if it exists. If, under these conditions, he is not convinced that disease is present, then he may conclude that the con- dition is hysterical. If, on the other hand, he finds the slightest trace of disease, or even is unable to say certainly that no disease exists, it is safer to treat the case as one of real disease. Diagnosis should, however, not be uncertain in the vast majority of cases. I have not yet spoken of the connection between hysterical affections and the sexual 1 Hysteria may be produced by some local affection. An example was published in the British Medical Journal, 28th July 1900, in which the irritant was an ingrowing toe nail. This is not the surgical hysteria of which I am writing. There is no simulation of disease. Any other peripheral irritation might produce the same effect.