281 HYDROPATHY mustard pack over the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Dyspepsia and Hepatic Congestion.—Needle bath, Scottish douche, mustard pack over cervical ganglia of sympathetic and over liver and stomach. Piles.—Ascending douche. Leucorrhoea, dysmenorrhcea, and otlier uterine troubles, sitz-bath with ascending douche. Obesity.—Needle bath, spinal douche, Scottish douche, Aix douche. Constipation.—Scottish douche, cold spinal douche, large enemata of water to wash out colon. Ice.—May be used internally or externally. It is useful sucked, or swallowed in small pieces, in inflammatory conditions of, or hsemorrhage from mouth, tonsils, throat, or stomach, and in vomiting it also lowers temperature and some- times stops hiccough; placed in the rectum it lowers temperature. Externally it has many uses. It is applied to the head in inflammatory and feverish affections: to the neck in acute tonsillitis. Application to the spine and over the epi- gastrium relieves hiccough, and is often placed over lungs and stomach in hsemorrhage from those organs. It has been used with much success in the treatment of pericarditis and endocarditis, applied for short periods over the heart; and tachycardia has often been relieved by this application. It relieves acute inflammatory affections of joints, and also some cases of neuritis. Certain obstinate cases of acute or subacute rheumatoid arthritis, especially of the knee, have done well with ice massage, twice daily, for half an hour each time. A flat piece of ice is taken in the hand of the attendant, and gentle rubbing is given. The application of the ice bag to the lower spine is said to stimulate the utero - ovarian organs; while applied over the lower part of the abdomen it stops uterine haemorrhage; it is sometimes serviceable in the early stage of strangulated hernia, enabling reduction to be made without operation. Hydropericardium.—The presence of serous fluid (non-inflammatory in origin) in the pericardial sac. See Pericardium, Diseases OP (^Hydropericardium). Hydroperione.—Liquid lying between the decidua vera and the decidua reflexa ; it has been regarded as serving for nourishment to the embryo. Hydroperitoneum. — The accumu- lation of serous fluid in the peritoneal cavity. See Ascites. Hydrophidae. See Snake-Bites {Cohi- brine, Hydrophidce or Sea Snakes). Hydrophobia.. Rabies; Hysteria (Varieties of Attacks, Hydrophobic Phenomena); Tetanus {Diagnosis). Hydrophthalmos. See Cornea {Changes in Hydrop)hthalmos) ; Glaucoma ; Sclerotic, Diseases of {Staphyloma). Hydropneumopericardium. — The presence of air and fluid in the pericardial sac. Hydropneumothorax.—The pres- ence of air and fluid iu the pleui'al cavity. See Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumothorax). Hydrops.—Dropsy. See Ascites; Fal- lopian Tubes {Hydrops Tubae Profluens); Joints, Diseases of {Definitions, Hydrops); Joints, Diseases of {Tuberculous, Hydrops Tuberculosis); Joints, Diseases of {Arthritis Deformans, Hydrops); Knee-Joint, Diseases OP {Tuberculcnis, Hydrops Tuberculosis); Labour, Prolonged, Faults in the Passenger {Hydrops Amnii); Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of {Lacrimal Sac, Hydrops) ; Pregnancy, Patho- logy OP, Ovum and Decidua {Affections of Amnion, Hydrops Amnii). Hydrops ad Mat u lam. See Diabetes Mellitus. Hydroquinone.—An isomer of resorcin and pyrocatechin (CgH^. O^H,,) ; it is an oxida- tion product of phenol (paradihydroxy benzene); the difference in properties existing between the three isomeric substances (resorcin, pyrocate- chin, and hydroquinone) is supposed to be due to the relative positions of the two hydroxyl groups in the molecules ; as an antiseptic hydro- quinone has been used in tj'phoid fever, rheu- matic fever, etc. ; it may be found in the urine. See Toxicology {Corrosives, Carbolic Acid, Symptoms); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Colour in Carboluria, Ethereal Sulphates). Hydrorrhachis.—Spina bifida {q.v.). HydrorrllOea. — A watery discharge, especially that which takes place, intermittently, from the pregnant or less often from the non- pregnant uterus (hydrorrhoea gravidarum); hydrorrhcea may also occur in nasal disease. See Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Hydrorrhcea or coryza vaso-motoria periodica); Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. {Nasal Hydrorrhcea); Pregnancy, Pathology op. Ovum and Decidua {Affections of Decidua, Inflammation, Hydrorrhcea Gravi- darum). Hydrosalpinx.—A collection of watery fluid in the Fallopian tube, causing it to assume a retort or sausage shape. See Fallopian Tubes {Hydrosalpinx or Dropsy of the Tube); Men- struation AND ITS Disorders {Dysmenorrhcea^ Causes, Tubal Disease).