HYSTERIA 314 total antesthesia cannot stand upright if their eyes are shut; no movement can be made unless the patient is looking at the anaesthetised limb, otherwise it remains in its former position (partial catalepsy). Pitres puts this fact lucidly before us ; a movement is begun with the eyes open, and is arrested if the aid of vision is withdrawn. Other disorders of movement may be noted; syncinmsia, if the patient is told to lift one arm he lifts both ; allocinesia, the patient raises the opposite arm from the one he is told to lift; heterocinesia, where the movement execTited is the contrary one to the movement he is shown. Paralysis and Contractures.—Paralysis, con- tractures, spasms, etc., are the temporary motor disorders of hysteria. They affect both the organic and voluntary muscles; disorders of the organic viscera will be studied in connection with the affection of the viscera, and only voluntary motor disorders will be here described. Paralysis and contractures proceed from the same causes, and occur either at the end or during an attack. Very occasionally they pre- cede the attack, in which case they are tran- sient, but if they accompany the convulsive attack they may be much more obstinate. At times the predisposing cause is some local in- flammation (congestion, laryngitis, etc.). The attacks affect the moral emotions most power- fully. Traumatism is influential in producing paralysis {hystero - traumatism); it need not necessarily be very violent, and there often exists very little relation between the intensity of the trauma and the degree of the motor trouble. The development of the paralysis is preceded by an interval of " meditation," during which the sufferer dreams incessantly of the accident of which he has been the victim ; at the end of a time, varying from fifteen days to three months, paralysis or contracture appears; the force of the mental shock is thus seen to be greater than the physical, hence the term psychic paralysis, or paralysis of the imagination {hei einheilduny). Hysterical paralysis develops sometimes slowly, sometimes rapidly, sometimes like a blow or ictus. Wherever it appears it has a certain number of ordinary characteristics. (1) It is usually partial, the limbs still retaining a certain power. These paralytic strokes are not always attended by amyotrophies, nor by vaso- motor troubles and oedema. (2) The tempera- ture is slightly lowered about the affected part, the electric reactions are scarcely modified, and the tendon reflexes are normal. (3) Another typical characteristic of this paralysis is the appearance of a segmentary, anjcsthetic zone. (4) The muscular sense is numbed. Hysterical paralysis presents many variations, some astonish- ing in their intensity and duration, and lasting sometimes hours, sometimes years. The termina- tion takes place on recovery, and may be sudden or gradual, or may give place to a contracture. In some cases the paralysis is systematic, and only affects certain movements. Hysterical para- lysis is distinguished from cerebral paralysis by its irregularity and the intensity of the sensory disorders; and from organic paralysis by the absence of any considerable muscular atrophy or disorders of the reflexes. The locale of paralysis is varied ; with a monoplegia the paralysis is flaccid, and the limb feels inert. The sensory disorders are the following : in the upper ex- tremity the anaesthesia is en gigot, with a slight encroachment on the thorax before and behind ; in the lower extremity the superior limit of the insensibility is marked by a line passing through the fold of the groin, the iliac crest, and the in- sertion of the gluteus maximus, leaving out the genital organs and the sacrum. Hemiplegia is the ordinary form of hysterical paralysis, which affects most frequently the left side, and is accompanied by the characteristic gait described by Todd : the lower limb is inert and drags like a useless member, and, unlike organic hemi- plegia, there is no power of motion or circum- duction, and the feet drag on the ground; hemianaesthesia is always observed. The face generally escapes, though occasionally it is affected in the course of hysterical hemiplegia. In some rare cases this reproduces the Gnbler Millard symptom. The existence of hysterical facial paralysis was long doubted, but is now an incontestable fact. It may be accompanied by glossolahial hemi- spasm {vide p. 315). It is seldom very acute, being more frequently a paresis rather than true paralysis ; it has one outstanding characteristic, viz. a remarkable disconnection in the motor faculties, the patient being able to laugh or cry, but possessing no power of voluntary action. Hysterical paraplegia is sometimes observed. It may be associated with a flaccid state of the muscles, or with rigidity, and in the latter case may closely simulate serious organic disease of the spine. It is distinguished from organic para- plegia by the absence of subjective pains and by the particular type of anaesthesia. In certain cases paraplegia simulates tabes, "hysterical pseudo-tabes"; the association of tabes with hysteria is not otherwise an exception, the two maladies often appearing separately on their own account (hystero-tabes). The occurrence of paralysis of the ocular muscles, although admitted by certain writers, is problematical. Contractures develop suddenly or gradually like paralysis, and consist in motor weakness and persistent stiffening of the muscles. The contracture involves the antagonistic muscles, and only relaxes under the influence of chloro- form. A segmentary anaesthetic zone is present as in paralysis, the reflexes are rarely augmented, and epileptic tumours are rare, though there is hysterical trembling. A common form of con-