INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 486 you try to raise them, root themselves to the ground if you try to make them walk, clinch their teeth if you would feed them, refuse to swallow, to wash, to dress, to undress, or even to empty bowels and bladder. Further, they often kick and bite, and scratch and pull the nurse's hair. They call for immense patience, and people are apt to regard them as wilfully disagreeable. That is because of the outwardness and apparent purposefulness of the symptoms. Even the most uninitiated recognise that the quiet melancholic is irresponsible. But the resistive melancholic seems responsible. Some- times we may help the nurse by reminding her how a trapped animal, or a child in distress, will repel and perhaps attack those who go to its help, and that in resistive insanity the patient does not understand people. Chronic melancholia, which may persist for years, is usually of an active form and often resistive. Phobia [Partial Mdancholia).—Many cases, and some of them very interesting, without a general melancholia, suffer a morbid and per- sistent fear in relation to limited and specific things—knives and scissors, blood, and blood- red colour, narrow places (claustrophobia), open spaces (agoraphobia), and what not. Some of these phobias are developmental, and the common mind is normally afraid of gross dark- ness, loud noises, dead human bodies, reptiles, precipices, fire, deep water, and other things properly to be avoided. In the weak, either by development or after critical bodily illnesses, or in other neurasthenic states, the affection often relates to things not essentially harmful. The fear, whatever it may refer to, primarily occurs only when the patient is face to face with the object of it. But in many cases of a melan- cholic habit the patient dwells upon the fear, and, apart from any objective occasion, becomes distressed at the mere idea of the thing. Then very probably obsession will develop, in which the nauseous suggestion obtrudes itself re- peatedly and persistently imtil the distracted patient breaks down under it. In any case, while the terror is upon him the patient is in great distress. And the panic which rivets his attention is associated with a characteristic muscular state, not unlike the gymnastic of acute melancholia, but with an added tremu- lousness and an accentuated feebleness. At the same time the pupils often dilate, the face tui'ns pale, and the patient feels himself unable to move. In fact, the differences and resem- blances, mental and bodily, between melan- cholia and phobia are analogous to those be- tween imhappiness and fright. Moreover the treatment of phobia practically resolves itself into preventing its becoming melancholia,—by diminishing the genei'al, and diverting from the particular, nervousness from which the patient suffers. Stupor When insanity is described as a disease in the cerebral structures which subserve normal life, we imply that the function of nerve-cells and nerve-fibres is impaired in the sense that their excitability is diminished. Such an abey- ance of functional activity becomes manifest, when it is far advanced, in changes which we can observe under the microscope, such as are described by Dr. Robertson. But, following that impairment of excitability in the cells and fibres of sane mental activity, there is usually very evident in insanity a hyperexcitability of mechanisms on a lower level, or, at least, an abnormal activity in them, and these secondary excesses constitute the positive symptoms of insanity. But stupor must be described almost entirely in negative terms. It is characterised by failures and losses rather than by excesses and extravagances. The patient, in pure stupor, cannot do anything except the most primitive things — cannot speak, cannot walk, cannot shake hands, cannot brush his hair, cannot button, and, presumably, cannot think. In other words, and to describe the disease in a sentence: Stupor is the cessation of conduct. But, before elaborating that remark, we must digress to consider exactly the system of func- tions which we must suppose are chiefly in- volved in the diminished excitability which characterises the disease. In his description of melancholia, Bevan Lewis lays much emphasis upon the failures of the muscular element of mind, and indeed re- gards them as primary. The subject, however, is one which is perhaps more apposite to stupor. And that is in no way at variance with Bevan Lewis's position. For stupor is a secondary development of melancholia in which the depres- sion of function, the increased neural resistance, has spread downwards and outwards towards the muscles. Indeed we might have described a stuporose variety of melancholia as leading us on to stupor. There is no case of acute melancholia that does not threaten stupor; and there is no stupor that is not, or has not been, melancholic. The term " muscular elements " as applied to intelligence is easily understood. Based upon the muscular sense, it has its final expression in the constructive or inventive consciousness —in conceiving and designing things to be done and made. Its most elementary form is necessary to all perception. The shape, the size, the distance, the feel, the weight, the direc- tion in which things are—all these and other qualities of external objects are perceived by muscular sensations following movements of the eye, limbs, and body. Bevan Lewis thinks that these muscular elements in the melancholic's perception of things may be impaired befoi'C and without an impairment of the other and