141 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM portal congestion, nay almost to the end of the case. But portal congestion unquestionably implies a proneness to catarrhal inflammation of both stomach and bowels. It is in the case of the former organ that this process is most evident—the patient losing all appetite and then vomiting his food. (The possibihty of digitalis being a factor in the sickness must always be borne in mind.) For this condition medicinal treatment alone avails little. Large doses of subnitrate of bismuth constitute probably the best form of it, but in a severe attack deprivation of all food by the mouth is necessary, nutritive suppositories or enemata being given per rectum. In any case the food taken by the mouth should be limited to milk, and this is best peptonised, as there can be very little digestive power in the stomach during catarrh. Fermented milk or "koumiss" (originally mare's milk) will often be retained when ordinary milk is rejected. But it fails in a certain proportion of cases, and then there is no alternative but to let the stomach have absolute rest for a timeusually twenty-four or forty-eight hours suffice for recovery. Care, of course, must be exercised in the resumption of nourishment by the stomach—only bland fluids in small quantities at a time are at first permissible. Mention must be made of an absolute milk diet in the treatment of heart cases, especially those associated with high arterial tension and kidney disease. This treatment is only appli- cable to the patient confined to bed. It would seem that the products of metabolism arising during milk diet and rest are much less toxic than those produced while ordinary diet and exercise are being taken; and as a consequence the vascular tension declines, an important matter, seeing that it directly concerns the heart. No doubt another element in the good effects of the treatment is the speedj'^ washing away of any toxic products of metabolism there may be. A tendency to constipation can easily be obviated by laxative drugs. But few patients will or can continue the treatment lone:. It is such a common practice to give frequent purgatives in heart disease, that it is usually hard to disassociate catarrh of the bowels from their action. Moreover, the mucous membrane of the intestines in a severe heart case is sure to be exposed to the venous stasis of the portal system. Notwithstanding, it is not often that diarrhoea calls for treatment, a moderate loose- ness being usually considered desirable. It must be remembered, however, that any approach to acuteness of the catarrhal process is apt to exert a depressing influence upon the heart; while frequent actions of the bowels imply exertion on the part of patients who do not use a bed-pan. These considerations lend additional importance to the dietetics of heart disease, and the writer believes that tympanites, so distressing to many suff"erei'S from the disease, is largely promoted by excess of carbohydrates — the usually innocently regarded rice pudding and its kindred—while well-boiled green vegetables and even fruit may be taken with impunity provided they are taken with nitrogeiaous food alone. It is a remarkable fact that cases of obstinate chronic tropical dysentery after resisting all medicinal treatment are sometimes cured expeditiously and per- manently by the consumption of large quantities of fruit, apples, etc. The permission to take fruit may seem to be contrary to the principles of diet already laid down, but a patient, whose starchy food and cane-sugar is as much reduced as has been advised in heart cases, can consume the glucose of fruit with as much impunity as the patient on milk diet consumes his lactose. We are not dealing with diabetic patients, though an apparent sugar reaction is sometimes obtained in the urine of cardiac patients; generally it is due to excess of uric acid, or the presence of some abnormal body, as glycuronic acid; sometimes really to glucose. When we consider the disorder of the liver that must result from heart disease, it is surprising rather that glycosuria should be so rare than that it should occur occasionally in the urine. Medicinal Treatment.—We have next to con- sider in detail the treatment of heart disease by drugs. The powerful and toxic remedies that act directly on the heart muscle itself must of necessity have the first place in the considera- tion of these remedies. One may be said to be facile princeps—a giant among the rest—namely, digitalis, which, take it all and all, has no rival. A knowledge of the peculiarities of action of this remedy, which include the slowness of the estab- lishment of its diuretic effects, its cumulative properties, by virtue of which its action is main- tained for a considerable time after its adminis- tration has ceased, and its double, in a sense antagonistic action, at the same time on both the heai't muscle and the peripheral arterioles, is of immense importance in the employment of digitalis in practice. The effect desired is a tonic one on the heart muscle, the best indica- tion of the achievement of which is an increase in the flow of urine steadily maintained for several days. And once for all, let it be clearly understood that it is the heart muscle, and not any lesion there may be, that is influenced by the drug. The writer has absolutely no faith in the suitableness of the remedy in cases of one lesion, and in its unsuitableness in cases of another lesion. Such views, he thinks, have sadly often led to the withholding of digitalis when it constituted the only hope of the re- demption of the case. Aortic incompetence and mitral stenosis are the two lesions in regard to which purely theoretical considerations have been allowed to exert such a grievous influence on practice.