1-28 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM may yet utibrd him information as to the power and size of the chambers. Percussion.—By this method the usual pre- ponderating increase in the size of the left ventricle can be demonstrated, the extension of cardiac duhaess taking place towards the left— to the left with an inclination downwards more or less marked. That this should be so is evident from the anatomy of the heart. In cases in which tlie right chambers have become secondarily enlarged, the extension of the right auricle to the right of the sternum will enable the observer to gauge the dilatation suffered by this chamber and the degree of obstruction in the pulmonary circuit that has occasioned it. When dilatation of the aortic arch has reached a high degree, a " mediastinal" dulness—that is to say, a dull area passing across the middle line in the upper sternal region, and reaching to neither " costo-acromial" angle—may be detectable. Auscultation.—The great sign that this physical method of diagnosis affords in aortic incompetence is a diastolic murmur, heard in some part of the triangle defined as follows : by a line drawn along the right border of the sternum from the second costal cartilage to the xiphoid cartilage, and by lines joining the extremities of this one with the apex of the left ventricle, which is, of course, the point of greatest extension of the whole heart to the left. Over all this triangle, or limited to any part of it, the diastolic murmur of aortic incompetence is audible. Most murmurs of aortic incompetence are well heard down the sternum and to the left of the lower half or more of the bone. Feeble murmurs, again, may be limited to a small area close to the left sternal border, lying between the third and fifth cartilages. Some aortic murmurs are transmitted specially to the apex, and these have to be carefully distinguished from certain mitral diastolic murmurs, the resemblance being increased by the possible association of both murmurs with an ac- companying thrill. In all cases of suspected aortic incompetence it is necessary to explore the whole of the triangle defined above. The majority of cases of aortic incompetence also present a systolic murmur accompanying or replacing the first sound of the heart in the aortic area. Tliis, as already emphasised, must not be accepted as a sign of aortic stenosis, inasmuch as it may be produced by the most trivial of projections on a valve or some little thickening or rigidity of the same, in which cases the obstruction is only nominal, or the same murmur may be met with, as already explained, when the orifice, far from being smaller than natural, is actually larger than normal, in dilatation of the arch. This last type of murmur may be not only very loud, but heard over a considerable area, the aortic arch being in contact with the chest wall to an abnormal extent. (Thrill may accompany such a murmur and be felt over an extensive area corresponding to the dilated vessel.) Valuable information as to the actual condition of the affected parts may be obtained from a considera- tion of the second sound of the heart when that is still present, while its absence probably indicates destruction or profound defoi-mitj' of the valves. The alteration of the second sound that is of chief diagnostic importance is accentua- tion or intensification. The combination of a systolic murmur followed by such a second sound renders dilatation of the arch, involving the ascending portion, almost certain, and the preservation of the sound in this form indicates such a degree of integrity of the valves as to render it very probable that the incompetence depends rather on dilatation of the aortic orifice than upon valve change. On theoretical grounds it has been assumed by some that incompetence according to its degree interferes with accentua- tion of the second sound. Clinical experience fails to support such assumption, and one thing is absolutely certain : accentuation of the aortic second sound and diastolic murmur are frequently associated, the murmur following the second sound without the intervention of the slightest pause. Dr. Walshe long ago called attention to an alteration of the aortic second sound that he conceived to be due to a short murmur pre- ceding the second sound and running into it, as the mitral presystolic murmur runs into the first sound, and such alteration he no doubt correctly associated with dilatation of the aorta. The writer recognises the altered sound referred to, and the accuracy of Dr. Walshe's inference as to its pathological association, but he regards it rather as a modification of accentuation than as a combination of murmur with sound. Phonetically, the sign referred to is represented, according to Dr. Walshe, by the letters 2}hwi . . . tt. In this relation it is curious to note that it is often difficult to distinguish simple accentuation of the first sound in mitral stenosis from the combination of short jH'e- systolic murmur running into an accentuated first sound. The Fulse in Aortic Incompetence. — Long before the days of the sphygmograph the peculiar characters of the pulse in aortic in- competence had atti'acted the attention of physicians. Sir Dominic Corrigan in 1838 first described those characters in relationship to the lesion, and throughout the medical world the pulse is known as " Corrigan's pulse." Perhaps the most concise statement with regard to its characters is that they consist of a very extensive and a very rapid transition from the maximum to the minimum blood-pressure. The term " the pulse of unfilled arteries" is objectionable, seeing that the arteries are never empty ; the name " Corrigan's pulse" implies no theory, and does honour to one to whom