VOL. IV V a 2 EDITORIAL NOTE This, the fourth, volume of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery carries the work from Gum-Eesins to Intussusception, and contains 872 subject- headings. The four volumes now issued contain almost all the articles of the first five volumes of the Encyclopcedia Medica, along with a great mass of new material, consisting for the most part of shorter contributions, but embracing also not a few comparatively long ones. Of the 872 subject-headings in the present volume, 52 are those of articles of more than 1000 words in length, and one of these (that dealing with the Heart and its Diseases) occupies 98 pages, while another (that concerned with the various aspects of Insanity) covers 77 pages. New articles on Diagnosis in Gy^mcology, on Heart Block, Hirsiities, Homo Gaudcdus, and on Recent Views on Immunity (including the Opsonic Index) have been added; and the contribution dealing with the Pathology of Insanity has been re-written. Other important articles in this group are those on Hmmatemesis, ou Hematoma Auris, on Hematuria, on Hcemopliilia, on Hcemoptysis, on Hemorrhage, on Hay Fever, on Headache, on Hemiplegia, on Heredity, on Hernia, on Herpes, on the Hip- Joint, ou Hydatid Disease, on Hydrocephalus, on Hypnotism, on Hysteria, on Ichthyosis, on Indigestion, on Infant Feeding, on Infection, on Influenza, and on the Intestines. Of articles varying in length from 10 lines to 1000 words there are in this volume 54. These include paragraphs dealing with Gums, Hmmatoma, Haimatoxyli Lignum, Hcemochromatosis, Haimoglohinometer, Hallux, Hamamelis, Head-Shaking, Surgery of the Heart, Hebotomy, Hegar's Sign, Hcmeralopia, " Hemisine," Heroin, Hirudo, Hoffmann's Anodyne, Holocaine, Honey, Hook, Hops, Hyaline Degeneration, Hydramnios, Hydrastis, Hydrochloric Acid, Hydrocyanic Acid, Hydrogen Peroxide, Hydrops, Hydroquinone, Hydror- rhcea, Hyoscyamus, Hyperoesthesia. Hyperpyrexia, Hypnotics, Hypoglossal Nerve, Hypophos- phites, Hypospadias, Hysterectomy, Ichthyol, Indian Drxtgs, Infancy, Infarction, Inhalations, Iniencephaly, Inoscopy, and Intubation. Of subject-headings which are of less than 10 lines in length there are 766. Many of these are short definitions of new terms, or short descriptions of new methods of treatment and of new drugs, while others are cross-references. A general idea of their nature will be gained from the enumeration of some of them, viz. Gum-Pesins, G^irjun Oil, Gut-Cleaning, Guy's Pill, Gynandry, Gyrus, Hahit Spasm, Habitual Abortion, Habitus, Hcemalops, Ha^marthrosis, Hmmathidrosis, Hoimatocolpos, Hcematocrit, Hcematogenesis, Hcematometra, Hcematosalpinx, Hcematotrachelos, Hmmocytolysis, Hmmogallol, Hoimokonia,