27 h.^:maturia between them marked by complete absence of any blood in the urine. Sometimes there may be periods of relief extending over several weeks or even months, and usually any fresh recurrence of bleeding can be explained by excessive exer- cise or unwonted freedom of movement on the part of the patient. If these conditions are associated with the absence of vesical symptoms, the strong presumption is in favour of the haemorrhage being renal in origin and against the hypothesis that the blood is flowing from an ulcerated surface; the total duration of the symptoms is also an important guide to the benign or malignant nature of the malady giving rise to it. (e) The Effects of Alovement or Exercise or ■of Complete Rest in the Course of an Attack.— When complete rest is taken, hsematuria due to the presence of stone in the renal pelvis, in the bladder, or in the prostate, is generally more or less relieved; so also in htemorrhage observed in cases of movable kidney, or in passive hyper- semia of the kidney resulting from pressure on the renal veins. In such cases it is repeatedly observed that the blood is most abundant in the urine at night when the patient has been taking active exercise during the preceding day, while at the same time the pain in the renal region or irritability of the bladder is increased. It must, however, be also borne in mind, in exceptional instances, that in hsematuria from an abraded surface, as in carcinomatous or tuberculous ulceration, or in senile prostate, the bleeding occasionally may not be increased by exercise ; but, as a rule, if the hfematuria persists in spite of prolonged rest in bed, and especially when the bleeding is more abundant during the night than at other times, carci- nomatous, sarcomatous, or tuberculous ulceration is to be looked for. n. By collecting the Urine separately from the two Ureters, or hy observing Blood escaping from the Orifice of a Ureter.—The cystoscope may be used both in men and women, and when properly employed the examination subjects the patient to very little risk. The sound is too frequently employed in cases of hsematuria. It is only when the bleeding is the result of a vesical calculus, or an enlarged prostate, or an hyper- trophy of the bladder, that any reliable informa- tion can be gained by the employment of the sound; and when the haematuria is due to other lesions, much harm may be done by the rough manipulation necessary to examine the bladder with that instrument. The educated use of the cystoscope, being more gentle, is less dangerous, and it is more valuable; but it should always be used with strictly aseptic precautions. In all cases, not only should the cystoscope itself be thoroughly sterilised, but the meatus and surrounding parts should also be carefully washed, and rendered as free from contaminating particles as possible ; and after examination has been made the bladder should be carefully washed out with a fresh supply of suitable antiseptic solution. By making careful examination with the cystoscope {vide " Cysto- scope," vol. ii. p. 264) it is usually easy to ascertain whether or not the blood is from the bladder; but in a few instances it is not safe to conclude from the fact of no lesion being observed in the bladder that the hsematuria is therefore either renal or urethral in its origin. When, however, the blood is seen by the cystoscope flow- ing from the orifice of a ureter, or more rarely from both ureters, the observation is of the highest importance as indicating the source from which the blood comes. Catheterisation of the Ureters.—Catheterisation of the ureter in the female has been much simplified by Kelly of Baltimore.^ The essential feature of his method is that of the introduction of a straight speculum into the empty bladder. The walls of the viscus are slightly separated by the position assumed by the patient, the dilatation being such as to bring the orifices of the ureters into view when reflected light is thrown into the bladder by a forehead mirror. Those who desire to catheterise the ureters must carefully study their direction in the various parts of their course, and must always remember that gentle manij^ulation is of the highest importance. Within the last few years two catheterising cystoscopes have been introduced, the one by Nitze, and the other by Casper. In catheteris- ing the ureters it must be borne in mind that rough introduction of the catheter may of itself lead to haemorrhage, and certainly this is a drawback to its use, especially when the catheterised ureter is the seat of inflammation. In the female the procedure is easily carried out, and the results are tolerably certain ; but in the male, even when one succeeds in introduc- ing the catheter into the ureter, it is difficult to say to what degree the results obtained are to be relied upon. A point of considerable importance in dia- gnosis is the appearance of the orifice of the ureter as seen by the cystoscope. III. By carefully considering all the other Objective and Subjective Phenomena. — The questions which have been considered up to the present give but a rough sketch ; the detail requires to be carefully filled in before the pictiu-e is completed. In order to do this the practitioner must consider the most common sources of ha;maturia, and enumerate the various lesions of the kidney, the ureters, the bladder, the prostate, the urethra, and the testicles, which may give rise to the symptom under discussion. It is well always to conform to tliis rule in going over the etiological factors which have been indicated above. 1 Twentieth Century Practice of Medicine, 1895, vol. i. p. 675.