HOMO CAUDATUS ■253 some bundles of voluntary muscular fibres which took origin from the subcutaneous tissue near the pi'oximal end of the middle segment, and were inserted into the skin of the terminal segment mostly on its left side. No muscles passed from the trunk to the tail. There wei-e several arteries and some small veins, also a number of small nerve trunks. Before I refer to the mode of production of tails I may take note of the fact that such structures are usually found in foetuses which show other malformations. Schseffer {loc. cit.) has made a careful analysis of the associated malformations : among them were atresia ani, exomphalos, exstrophy of the bladder, asym- metrical development of the whole body, defec- tive limbs, anomalies of the genital organs {e.g. hypospadias), amniotic bands, anencephalus, hypertrichosis, polymastia, and club-feet. A tail has also been found in double terata (Hohl- feld, Diss, inaug., Wiirzburg, 1861 ; Becker, Diss, inaug., Gdttingen, 1889) and in several instances of syrapodia. Its association with fusion of the lower limbs (sympodia) is particu- larly interesting : when it occurs it would seem that in some instances {e.g. Ruge's case. Arch, f. path. Anat., cxxix. 381, 1892) the "tail" is due to a dislocation of the lower end of the spine backwards and to one side (as in one of my cases. Fig. 2); while in others it is simply a soft caudiform structure which is met with ("penis-like" in W. Maclaren's specimen, Edinh. Med. Journ., xviii. 658, 1873; xix. 590, 1874; " soft, vascular, spongy, and obtuse" in J. Hofer's Acta Helvet., iii. 366, 1758; like a pig's tail in D. Siiperville's, Phil. Trans., xli. 302, London, 1744; and with its tip of livid colour and divided into two lobules in B. W. Huesker's case. Diss, inaug., Gryphise, 1841). It is necessary, now, to consider very briefly what explanation Teratology has to offer for the occurrence of such true " tails" as have been described. Embryology supplies part of the answer, and the general principles of Terato- genesis when applied to this part of ontogenesis complete the solution of the problem. There is a stage in the development of the human embryo when it possesses a real tail; it is best marked in embryos of about 14 mms. in length (fifth week); and it may be well seen in Figs. 12, 13, and 14, and especially well in Fig. 17 {see article on Embryology, Human, vol. iii. 87-99). Harrison's description of the tail in the human embryo (founded on the examination of Mall's specimens) is good, and I quote from it here. There are seven coccygeal vertebrte in embryos 14 mms. long, and from the third of these onwards is the " tail," i.e. the part which projects free from the trunk. Half of the length of the projection is occupied by the vertebrae, while the distal part contains no vertebrse; the former part may be called the coccygeal projec- tion {Steisshocker), and the latter the " caudal filament." The caudal filament is bent towards the dorsum and ends in a slight knob; the medullary cord (spinal cord) runs to the tip of it and ends in a vesicular swelling ; the noto- chord and the terminal branches of the aorta (middle sacral) and inferior vena cava also pass Fig. 2.—External Appearances, posterior view, of Uronielic (Sym- podial) Foetus with Caudal Projection. Specimen No. 250. into it, but not to the same distance as the medullary cord ; and there is a mesenchymatous network in it with a thickened area, perhaps representing the post-anal gut of earlier embry- onic life. At the level of the thirty-second vertebra (just above the base of the tail) the medullary cord suddenly becomes constricted to form the filum terminale ; there are few or no neuroblasts beyond this point; and the walls are composed of columnar epithelial cells. As