INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 553 above the stricture must be performed as a palliative measure. Stricture of the Large Intestine.—If the patient is vigorous enough to allow of exploration, the operation should be conducted with two objects in view—the remote one of a radical cure, and the immediate one of giving relief. This ex- ploration, which should be accomplished in a few minutes, should demonstrate for future guidance the exact situation of the disease; its character, simple or malignant; if malignant, whether fixed or movable; and the presence or otherwise of enlarged glands or secondary deposits in the liver and elsewhere. It is seldom wise to attempt a radical cure and relief of obstruction in the colon at the same time, for wounds in the colon do not unite so readily as those in the small intestine, and are, in addition, exposed to traumatism by the passage of solid faeces. Therefore colotomy should be first done as immediately above the obstruction as seems advisable, and the radical operation left for a later date. The complete operations we have described as applied to obstruction affecting the small intestine are only possible with a fair chance of success when diagnosis has been made suffi- ciently early, and surgical treatment has been carried out at once. Patients with acute in- testinal obstruction are even worse than they look, and seldom get well after a complete or prolonged operation, however satisfactory, from the operative surgical point of view, if the small intestines are considerably distended. Such an operation, even though it empties the distended intestine, completes the intestinal paresis already commenced, and the patient gets relief after operation only for a few hours. The operation of choice for such patients is enterostomy. It has been my misfortune to perform this operation, and to find on subse- quent post-mortem examination an intestinal opening 12 inches below an impacted gall-stone lying immediately under the anterior abdominal wall; to discover after an immediately successful enterostomy that death on the ninth day was due to gangrene of a loop of bowel ensnared by a string-like adhesion easily accessible, and to see curdled milk oozing through the fistulous opening soon after it had been swallowed, show- ing that the incision had been made so high in the jejunum that death from starvation must shortly be expected. Against these disappoint- ing results, which a more thorough surgical procedure could have averted only by the certain sacrifice of the patient's life, must be placed the cases in which enterostomy has aff'orded another chance of life, which the more complete operation did not. A second operation is generally required after enterostomy, but it is not a unitjue experience to find the symptoms permanently relieved, and to see the patient completely cured, with spontaneous healing of the fajcal fistula. Enterostomy may generally be regarded as a protest against delay, but until early operation becomes more frequent it holds a useful place in the treatment of intestinal obstruction. The operation is best done by an oblique incision from above downwards in the direction of the fibres of the external oblique muscle about three inches long, commencing in the right side at the centre of the back of the ileo- costal space and extending as far forward as needful. The cascum, if distended, appears in the wound, is drawn outwards and opened towards the posterior extremity of the wound, after this has been packed thoroughly with protective gauze. A Paul's tube is then tied into the bowel, the ligature and the junction between bowel and tube are wrapped in iodoform gauze, and the parietes are sutured with silk- worm gut above and below, the two sutures nearest the intestinal opening coming through the outer coats of and fixing the gut. If the caecum is not distended the nearest coil of tense small intestine is drawn out and pulled towards the back, opened, and similarly treated. The advantages of this incision over one in the middle line are that it exposes a favourable site for pathological conditions, the neighbour- hood of the ileo-ctecal valve; that if the lai-ge intestine be at fault, typhlotomy can readily be done; that there is less difficulty in retaining the intestines in the abdomen with this than with a median incision ; that if the small in- testine has to be opened, it is here that the ileum, not the jejimum, is likely to be found ; and that by keeping the intestinal opening posterior there is less risk of the entrance into the abdomen of its septic contents. This opera- tion can be done with local anaesthesia alone, but it seems better to combine the use of a local with a general antesthetic. If the skin be frozen with chloride of ethyl, a skilled chloroformist with very few drops of chloroform can dull con- sciousness enough to render the patient com- fortable and incapable of feeling pain or being fearful. If the faecal fistula left by this operation shows no tendency to close spontaneously, the abdomen should be opened in the middle line during the third week or thereabouts for the purpose of treating the cause of the intestinal obstruction, and at the same time or later, as seems best, the enterostomy opening can be closed by a plastic operation. After-treatment of Operation Cases.—-The first indications in the after-treatment are to relieve shock and procure rest. To treat shock the patient should be heated in bed by warm bottles and blankets all round, and an enema of two oz. of beef-tea, two oz. of milk, and half oz. of whisky should be administered. His face and