58 HEADACHE colds and in influenza cause severe frontal headache. Treatment of chronic disease of frontal, antral, ethmoid, and sphenoid sinuses has been followed by cure of chronic pain in head. (b) Eye.—Muscular and retinal strain in a healthy eye, as by a visit to a picture-gallery ; also the effect on the retina of glare from the sea, sand, snow, bright roads. Chronic or fre- quently-recurring headache may be induced by organic diseases of the eye, such as glaucoma and iritis. In chronic headache the ocular tension should always be carefully tested. Errors in the optic apparatus which induce fatigue are very frequent causes of headache :— 1. These may affect the focussing : (a) errors of refraction—hypermetropia and astigmatism, less frequently myopia and anismetropia; {Jj) weak- ness of the ciliary muscle—following diphtheria, due to presbyopia or to debility. 2. Errors in powers of fixation—-esophoria, exophoria, hyper- phoria—due to an excess or to a deficiency in the action of the muscles acting on the globe. (c) Teeth.—The eruption of teeth both in first and second dentition ; also of the wisdom teeth. This is a more probable cause when the jaw is small and the teeth impacted. Caries specially of teeth in the upper jaw. (c?) Ear.—Wax in the meatus, otitis media, cholesteatoma in the mastoid antrum. Legal points out that sometimes ear disease causes not so much pain in the ear as in some other part of the head. (e) Digestive tract.—Occasionally we find that headache comes on after, or is aggravated by, the taking of food, and persists till the stomach is empty. Dilatation of stomach causes head- ache, probably through the production ■ of ptomaines. Overloaded bowels may act in the same way, but overloaded bowels and rectum and haemorrhoids also act by reflex irritation. Lumbricoids and tape-worm should also be borne in memory as causes in obscure cases. (/) Reproductive system.—Although Matthews Duncan stated that the generative organs do not cause pain above the breasts, it is established that congestions and displacements of the uterus do occasionally give rise to headache. That which is frequent in young women about puberty and in older women at the climacteric is more directly related to the condition of the nervous system. 4. ToxcBmia.—(o.) Autogenetic, from uraemia, liver diseases, gout, rheumatism, oxaluria, con- stipation ; {h) Heterogenetic, from alcohol, im- pure air of crowded meetings, badly-ventilated bedroom, bad drainage, certain drugs, such as opium, quinine, etc., malaria, fevers. It is to be borne in memory that the liver, the largest gland in the body, stands at the gateway be- tween digestion and circulation, and in deranged conditions is liable to permit the passage of ptomaines. It is often deranged without pro- minent digestive symptoms. 5. Hypercemia.—Acute congestion in encephal- itis, plethora, menstrual suppression, increased action of heart, violent exertion, and mental excitement. Passive congestion from certain diseases of the circulation and pressure of tumours on great veins leading from the head. 6. Anoeniia and Nervous Debility.—Chlorosis and the various diseases which produce general anaemia induce debility of nerve-centres, and in some constitutions headache results. Overwork, prolonged lactation, exhaustion, mental anxiety —which Laycock called phrenalgia: he con- sidered depression of spirits and hypochondriasis to be varieties of phrenalgia — neurasthenia, hysteria, sunstroke. 7. Migraine or megrim.—This is a paroxysmal form of headache allied to ejailepsy and other nerve-storm diseases. As it differs materially from other forms of headache, it requires notice at greater length. It is hereditary, occurs in families of nervous constitution, in those who are intellectual and studious, and in members of families with a history of epilepsy, chorea, in- sanity, and nerve weakness. Although there is a case on record which commenced at the early age of three and a half years, it most often begins at puberty, diminishes in frequency and severity with advancing age ; it generally ceases in old age, but not invariably so. About the menopause it general^ becomes temporarily aggravated. The attacks are periodical—once a week or at longer intervals; in women it frequently occurs at the menstrual period, com- monly just before it. An attack may last a few hours or several days, most frequently one day. Its onset is occasionally indicated by prodromata—in some persons a feeling of well- being, in others malaise, or sleepiness or consti- pation ; frequently there are optical phenomena —dimness or confusion of vision, coloured lights, flashing, dazzling, hemiopsia, or teichopsia. The attack generally comes on in the early morning, either immediately on awaking or soon after, with pain or throbbing in one or both temples; there may be jDallor or flushing of the face, or both may occur at the same time. The pulse is slow in proportion to the severity of the pain, the body is cold, the head hot. In severe cases the subject must rest—generally lying, but some must sit—in a darkened room; the pain is continuous with occasional exacerbations, which may be agonising. After a time nausea and vomiting occur, and following this the subsid- ence of the attack ; in others vomiting recurs and is bilious ; rarely diarrhoea is a symptom. During the attack the urine and saliva are diminished, and usually there is anorexia. Haig states that during the prodromal period of well- being the excretion of uric acid is below the normal, and that during the seizure it rises above it. Many theories have been advanced as to the cause of migraine. Haig believes that uric-acidacmia is to blame ; some consider that