HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF 221 the instant when the forcible movement is made. Wounds.—Wounds of the hip may so injure the surrounding tissues, and even the capsule, as to lead to serious impairment of the move- ments of the joint; or they may cause a secondary arthritis ; but the joint itself is so thoroughly protected from injury that it is hardly ever injured, except as a result of gunshots. The swelling of the capsule forms the most certain sign of injury, either at once as a residt of the effusion of blood, after a short interval from an increase in the synovial fluid, or quite late from suppuration. The swelling is felt easily, and may so raise the femoral artery as to make the pulsations feel subcutaneous. The particiilar dangers of the injury are liability to suppuration and implication of the pelvic organs. The difficulty of rendering the joint immobile forms a great obstacle to successful treatment, and it is often necessary, therefore, to excise the head of the femur either immediately after the injury or at a later period. The experience gained in the South African war, however, shows that the present gunshot woTuids of joints are by no means so serious as those inflicted in previous campaigns. A bullet may pass completely through a joint without leading to permanent impairment of its function. Dislocations op the Hip are amongst the rarer forms of injury met with in general surgical practice. They are the result of con- siderable violence, and nearly always occur in adults, though most surgeons have seen a few cases of true traumatic dislocation in children : in old people a fracture of the neck of the femur usually takes the place of dislocation of the hip. Pathology.—An anatomical examination of the hip shows that dislocation of the head of the femur takes place more easily in some postures than in others, and at the same time it explains why the head of the bone generally takes up certain fixed positions after it has left the acetabulum. The capsule of the hip is strengthened in front by a fibrous expansion— the ilio-femoral or Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow —whilst behind is the ischio-capsular ligament, extending from the back of the tuber ischii to the trochanters. Of these ligaments the ilio- femoral (Fig. 1, 6, 7, 7') is the more important. It consists of a thickened portion arising from the front of the ilium just below the anterior superior spine, and passing downwards to be inserted into the whole length of the anterior intertrochanteric line; its base extends, there- fore, from the front and upper part of the great trochanter obliquely across the front of the femur to just below the lesser trochanter. The outer and the inner parts of the ligament are thicker than the intermediate portion, so that the front part of the ligament consists of two denser fascicidi—the outer and inner branches of the Y-ligament—connected together by a less dense layer. At the back of the joint, in addition to the ischio-capsular ligament, the capsvde is strengthened by numerous tendons and muscles (Fig. 2), some of which are in very intimate relation with the capsule, whilst others, from the nature of their tendons, are veritable ligaments. The tendon of the obturator internus muscle (Fig. 2, 5) is one of the most important of these structures, because it forms a compact and well-defined band of fibrous tissue lying immediately over the middle of the head of the Fig. 2.—The Anatomical Relations of the Hip-Joint. 1. The gluteus niaximus cut short; 2. The K'uteus minimus; 3. The pyriformis ; 4. The j^emelhis superior; 5. The obturator internus ; 6. The gemellus inferior ; 7. The qiiadratus femoris ; 8. The oi)turator externus ; H. The insertion of the gluteus medius ; 10. The head of the femur (the capsule of the joint is not shown); 11. The great sciatic nerve. (From Helferich's Fractures and Dislocntionx, translated by Jno. Hutchinson, Esq., Junr. The New Sydenham Society's ed.) femur. Of late years, however, somewhat too great an importance has been attached to it in connection with dislocation of the hip backwards, for it is by no means unusual to find the obturator internus torn. Primary Dislocations.—The capsule is thin- nest and least protected opposite the notch in the acetabulum, which is situated at the bottom of the joint and a little behind its vertical axis. The acetabulum, too, is shallow and incomplete at this spot. When the thigh is flexed and abducted the head of the femur presses against this weak part of the joint, and at the same time the ligamentum teres is fully relaxed. A sudden and violent movement imparted to the body of the femur when the thigh is thus bent and abducted may drive the head of the bone out of the socket through a rent in the capsule, the head being displaced downwards and a little backwards, whilst the rent in the capsule varies in size from a minimum equal to the diameter of the head to a laceration involv- ing fully two-thirds of circumference of the acetabulum. This seems to be the usual method