205 HERNIA giving approximately 1 per cent. Broadly speaking, it may be affirmed that this hernia is a disease of the aged and enfeebled. Only five cases are recorded as having occurred in children. A hernia of the bladder may be present in the inguinal, femoral, perineal, obturator, and ventral forms of hernia. The inguinal is the most frequent, forming more than 90 per cent of the recorded examples. Varieties of Cystocele.—Three varieties of cystocele are recognised :— 1. Intra -peritoneal.—An ordinary oblique inguinal hernia is present; into the sac a Fig. 11.—Tlu'tliret! varieties of cystocele. A. Extra-peritoneal: B. Para-peritoneal; C. Iiitra-peritoiieal. portion of the bladder, completely covered by 2jeritOHeum, descends, the portion of the viscus implicated being the ujaper part of the posterior surface. 2. Para-peritoneal.—The inguinal hernia may be oblique or direct. On the inner side of the sac lies the bladder, in such manner that Fig. 12.—Vesical hernia. Sir Astley Cooper's case. The bladder is covered by peritoneum except at the inner and posterior part. Para-peritoneal form. (Guy's Hospital Museum, No. 1170.) the peritoneum of the inner wall of the sac is the serous covering of the outer wall of the bladder. The rest of the bladder outside the abdomen has no peritoneal coating. The viscus, therefore, is not a content of the sac, but projects into it. This form is the most frequent. 3. Extra-peritoneal Cystocele.—This form is rare. The bladder uncovered by peritoneum escapes from the abdomen on the inner side of the deep epigastric artery ; the hernia, that is to say, is of the direct form. The bladder may generally be recognised by the copious deposit of fat which surrounds it. In a very large number of cases the bladder has been wounded, being mistaken for the sac, a second sac, a cyst, or a lipoma. Symptoms and Signs.—Very few cases of hernia of the bladder have been diagnosed before operation. When, however, a large portion of the bladder is implicated (the whole bladder, including the prostate, has been twice herniated) the symptoms are unmistakable. In such a case the signs are those of a hernia which at times con- tains fluid. The tumour is rounded, smooth, ■ soft, fluctuating; the fluid is capable of reduction, and a desire to urinate is then created. The size of the hernia is subject both to rapid and to considerable alteration. The functional characteristics are striking. The chief of these is the " miction en deux temps," the divided micturition. A patient so affected voids urine and empties the portion of the bladder in the pelvis. Then, on pressure being applied to the hernia, the urine it contains is returned within the pelvic portion of the bladder and thence passes by the urethra. Micturition is in two stages and is associated with a simultaneous lessening of the hernial swelling. If the bladder, after being naturally- emptied, is filled by the injection of lotion, the fluid will pass through the canal and distend the hernial tumour. T'reatment. — In operating upon all hernise, especial attention should be paid to any thick- ening of the inner side of the neck of the sac, and more particularly to a deposit of fat in this situation, for by such signs is the presence of the bladder indicated. If the bladder be wounded, the wound should be stitched by a double layer of sutures and may then be safely reduced, and the operation completed in the usual manner. As a truss cannot be safely worn in cases of cystocele, an operation should be resorted to whenever possible. The accompanying table gives, at a glance, the chief features of the recorded examples of bladder hernia. [Table