HIP-JOINT, INJURIES OF 229 stirrup is secured to the leg and lower part of the thigh in the manner described (vol. iii. p. 361). Strips of house flannel are cut and arranged beneath the limb, from the great tro- chanter to the ankle, each strip overlapping the one above it, and each being three inches broad, and rather more in length than the circum- ference of the limb at the part it is to overlap. The splint is then placed over the limb so that the upper cross bar lies an inch below Poupart's ligament, and the lower cross bar is over the dorsum of the foot on a level with the instep, whilst the outer bar is as high as the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the inner bar is opposite the tendon of the adductor longus. The strips of flannel are then pinned to the sides of the splint in order, and from above downwards, imtil the thigh and leg lie in a trough. A stout piece of blind cord is then attached to the stirrup of the extension, and to the end of the splint which projects at least five inches beyond the foot. The limb is slung by means of a pulley and cord attached to the splint by two pairs of hooks soldered to the sides, and the cord with a weight at the end runs over a pulley in a standard placed at the foot of the bed (Fig. 4). The position of the limb required to bring the two fragments into good apposition can only be determined by experiment, but the limb, even to its extreme upper limit, should lie free of the bed, and at the lower end the splint should be at least ten inches above it. The piece of cord attaching the stirrup to the end of the splint is a valuable test of the efficiency of the apparatus ; so long as it remains taut good extension is being exercised upon the limb through the agency of the splint, but if it become slack the appliance must be readjusted. When a Hodgen splint is not available a long outside splint with a weight and extension may be applied for six weeks, and the patient may then be allowed to go about on crutches and in a Thomas splint for a further period of three to six weeks, the actual time depending upon his age and weight. Frachire of the great trochanter is a rare form of fracture resulting from direct injury to the hip. The symptoms are flexion, deformity, limitation of movement. The great trochanter is drawn upwards and lies above Nelaton's line. It appears in some cases as if an actual increase had taken place in the length of the limb, and the accident is mistaken for a dislocation of the head of the femur, especially when the patient is only seen some time after the injury. Bony union generally occurs with the great tro- chanter in its new position, and the patient therefore limps after the accident. It is some- times worth while to pin the great trochanter to the shaft, but in most cases the treatment con- sists in keeping the patient in bed with his limb between sandbags or in a Thomas hip splint. Coxa vara is a name given to a rickety in- curvation of the neck of one or both femora which is seen more often in growing children than during the early years of life. Particular attention was first called to it in 1889 by E. Miiller, who said that " in adolescence without apparent cause or following a slight injury, the patient begins to limp and complain of fatigue and pain about the affected joint on exertion. Shortening of the limb is soon apparent and is caused by elevation of the trochanter above Nelaton's line. The limb is usually extended or flexed to a few degrees and somewhat rotated outwards. The motion of the joint is slightly diminished, particularly in abduction. There is no local tenderness on pressure." Coxa vara occurs in those who carry weights, do much walking, or are subject in other ways to pro- longed fatigue. Its onset is marked by a peculiar stiffness of the hip referred to "growing pains," the stiffness being worse on rising after sitting for a time. It is relieved by complete rest. The shortening maj^ be considerable, amounting to as much as 1^ inch. The pro- minence of the trochanters is especially well seen by flexing the thighs, and the displacement of the trochanter in relation to Nelaton's line is backwards as well as upwards. This is usually associated with external rotation of the limb, but in some cases there may be external rota- tion without any upward displacement. Tilting of the pelvis with consecutive scoliosis and secondary genu valgum or knock-knee may result from the deformity. The diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment are discussed in article "Deformities," vol. ii. p. 296. B. Diseases of. Anatomical Considerations . . . 230 Diseases of Hip-Joint— Tuberculosis 230 Syphilis . . . . . .241 Pyogenic Diseases {including Gonor- rhoeal Affections and Acute Osteo- myelitis in Region of Hip) . . 241 Acute and Chronic Rheumatism . 242 Arthritis Deformans . . . 243 Neuro-arthropa thies— CharcoCs Disease . . . .243 Hysterical Joint . . . .244 Loose Bodies ..... 244 Pathological Dislocation— in Tuberculosis . . . .235 in Pyogenic Diseases . . .242 in Charcot's Disease . . . 243 in Paralysis .... 244 Contracture and Ankylosis {under differ-ent Diseases) . . . 244 Crossed-leg Deformity {under Tuber- culosis) ..... 236 Coxa Vara (see also " Deformities," vol. ii.) 229