HERNIA 199 A congenital hydrocele is translucent, fluctuat- ing, and reducible. The reduction is slow and even, there is neither slip nor gurgle. The tumour returns gradually, and the bottom of the scrotum is first occupied. A hydrocele of a hernial sac has been already described. It presents the same features as a vaginal hydrocele, but may have a thick, solid neck. A hydrocele of the cord is rounded and trans- lucent, and feels like a grape slipping along the cord. It may be reducible, and descends upon coughing. Traction on the testis generally com- mimicates a slight movement to the hydrocele. A varicocele is reducible, reappears on stand- ing, and may have a decided impulse on cough- ing. The impulse, however, gives no shock to the hand, but is merely the result of the turgid condition of the veins. Reappearance of the swelling is prevented only by forcible pressure along the canal when the patient is standing; a gentle pressure sufficient to retain the bowel or omentum permits the reappearance. The irresular knotted " worm-like " feel of the swell- ing may simulate omentum fairly closely. The solid tumours of the testis present little difficulty in diagnosis, and need not be further considered. From labial swellings.—A hernia of the labium is practically always reducible. Cysts of the labium and hydroceles of the canal of Nuck are irreducible, smooth, translucent, and fluctuating. Varices of the labial veins may, when large, resemble hernia, but a dilatation of the surface veins will generally suggest the correct diagnosis. Inguinal Hernia in Children Inguinal hernia is very commonly seen in children of both sexes, forming in males 23-4 per cent, and in females 22-5 per cent of all cases. It is more frequent upon the right side, and descends almost invariably in a partially or completely unclosed vaginal process. The dia- gnosis of the condition is rarely a matter of doubt or difficulty. The most active of the determining causes is ill-feeding, leading to gaseous distension of the intestine and increased intra-abdominal pressure; others of less influence are phimosis with adhe- sion of the prepuce to the glans and retention of the secretion of Tyson's glands, vesical calculus, rectal polypus, intestinal irritation by parasites, or any condition leading to persistent straining on the part of the patient. Treatment. — The very great majority of patients can be satisfactorily treated by trusses. The " wool-truss " has been much vaunted as an efficient, simple, inexpensive instrument. Per- sonally I have been most dissatisfied with it, and now have abandoned it entirely. The best form of truss is a " spring truss," covered with india-rubber of the best quality. Attention must be paid to the proper fitting and adjust- ment of the truss, and to cleanliness and dry- ness of the skin. The truss may only be removed for purposes of cleanliness. As to the length of time for which the truss must be worn, Mr. Langton, whose experience is unrivalled, gives the following instructions :—" When the protrusion takes place before the age of 1, the use of the truss should not be discarded under any circumstances till the age of 4 years ; if a truss has not been worn till the age of 3 or 4, it must be worn till the age of 10; if not worn till the age of 7, then the truss should be worn till puberty." Operation is rarely called for. It should only be advised— 1. In cases of irreducible omentum. 2. In all cases where fluid is present in the sac. 3. In operations for the relief of strangulated hernia. 4. In all cases where it is impossible to re- turn and control the hernia by mechanical appliances. 5. In cases where a truss has been worn for 3 or 4 years without benefit. Strangnlated Hernia m Children.—Strangu- lated hernia requiring operation during infancy is a very unusual occurrence. The most recent contributions to the literature of the subject have been published by Carl Stern and by Tariel of Paris. The extreme rarity of the condition is appreciated by both writers. Stern, in order to determine its frequency, consulted the records of the children's hospitals of Basle, Prague, Breslau, Vienna, Krakow, Frankfort, Amsterdam, Berne, and Gottingen. In these hospitals for foi^r consecutive years 139,000 children were treated, but there is no record of any case of herniotomy for strangula- tion. Of 1900 cases operated upon for strangu- lated hernia in various hospitals, 13 occurred in children. The proportion of cases in adults as compared with children is calculated by Stern to be in the ratio approximately of 108 to 1. Tariel, after remarking that several noted surgeons, among whom are Holmes, Gosselin, St. Germain, and Lannelongue, have never met with acute cases re(|uiring herniotomy, tabulates the records that he has been able to collect. They number in all 128. Konig states that throughout his long surgical career he has only met with two cases requiring operation in the " early years " of childhood. Nussbaum oper- ated upon two cases among a total number of •54,000 children under his care. Broca found strangulation in 9 cases out of 200 requiring radical cure in infancy. The first collection of records of operations of this kind was made by Ravoth, who tabulated 30 well-authenticated cases. Fere, who followed him, investigated the records of -52 operations in 56 cases. Howai-d Marsh in 1874 collected 47 cases. Knobloch, whose investigations preceded those of Stern,