IMMUNITY 349 confers no real immunity, yet the risk of acquir- ing pei'nicious rapidly fatal malaria is diminished after residence for a considerable time in malari- ous districts. Asiatic cholera is as yet believed to confer protection of only short duration. In the case of those specific infective processes which generally confer immunity, a slight attack affords as good a protection as would a severe one. This is probably the reason why, in the case of endemic infective diseases, such as typhoid fever or yellow fever, the inhabitants are usually less endangered than strangers, the former hav- ing probably previously suffered from the infec- tion in a mild form. In those instances where the blood serum of human patients who have recovered from cholera or typhoid fever has been examined, the same protective substances have been hitherto found as in animals which have been experimentally infected with cholera vibrios or typhoid bacilli. It is therefore advisable to deal imder one head- ing with the conditions found in specific im- munity in spite of their different modes of origin, for the specific immunity is essentially the same in both cases. It is always due to an absolutely Specific protection against a certain infective agent or its poison, and is not due to a general increase of resistance. Not only so, but recovery from a specific disease may be fol- lowed by increased susceptibility to other infec- tive diseases ; thus a severe attack of measles is not infrequently the starting-point for tuber- culosis. B. Protective Inoculation (active or iso- pathic immunisation).—Since the discovery of antitoxins and antitoxic sera by Behring, two methods of artificial specific immunisation have been recognised : (1) Protective inoculation, whereby the specific protective substances have to be formed in the body itself; (2) Immunisa- tion by transference of protective substances previously formed in antitoxic serum. Ehrlich designated the former method as active, the latter as passive immunisation. Behring has, however, of late preferred to term the former isopathic and the latter antitoxic immunisation. The chief difference between the two is as fol- lows :—In isopathic immunisation, true protec- tive inoculation, the individual must undergo a reaction, often a feverish one, after the intro- duction of the infective material. The anti- toxin is meanwhile being formed, and protection is therefore obtained only after a period of time. The resulting specific immunity will, however, persist for a long time, usually for months, be- cause the toxins which have been formed become bound to the tissue elements, and even after repeated severe venesections are not entirely got rid of in the withdrawn blood. In contradis- tinction hereto antitoxic immunisation by the introductioia of serum induces specific protection at once without the production of any morbid symptoms; but the immunity conferred is of very brief duration (8 to 14 days), especially if blood serum of another species of animal be employed, for, being a foreign substance, it will be rapidly excreted. Such immunity, however, is of longer duration after the use of serum of the same species—in horses, for example, on using tetanus serum obtained from horses. Just as in natural resistance we have to dis- tinguish between resistance to bacteria and resistance to poison, must we do the same when dealing with specific immunity, and must there- fore differentiate between " specific immunity to bacteria" and " specific immunity to toxin." Immunity to diphtheria is exclusively of the latter kind ; diphtheria antitoxic serum has no action upon living diphtheria bacilli, it merely neutralises their poison. Diphtheria bacilli can even be cultivated in the specific curative serum. Diphtheria bacilli in a patient's body have to be overcome through the agency of the natural power of resistance, and this is easily effected if the toxins are rendered impotent by injection of antitoxin. The same holds good for tetanus. Behring, nevertheless, has recently advocated that there should also be local treatment of diphtheritic membranes, and especially those of the nose, with curative serum ; and likewise in tetanus that the tetanus serum, or at least a portion thereof, should be injected as near as possible to the seat of infection if it be known. If there be specific immunity to bacteria on the other hand, such as is induced by treating animals with cholera or typhoid bacteria, the serum of the immunised animal is merely bac- tericidal to the bacterium in question, and has no action on its integral cell poison. Hence if an animal previously treated with cholera vibrios be afterwards infected with a large number of the same, the latter will indeed perish, but a fatal intoxication may be induced by their cell poisons. This is one of the chief reasons of the failure to obtain an efficacious serum suitable for the treatment of cholera and typhoid in the human subject. Another point of importance is that in specific immunity to poison the condition is often a regional one, analogous to the condition dealt with when speaking of natural resistance to poison. Rabbits which, by means of long-continued treatment with bouillon containing the poison of tetanus, have become thoroughly immune to subcutane- ous inoculation of tetanus toxin, are killed by intra-cerebral inoculation (Roux and Borrel). The conditions are similar in many other in- stances ; for example, guinea-pigs in which a high degree of specific immunity has been in- duced by treatment with cholera vibrios are nevertheless not protected against intestinal infection with virulent cholera vibrios. The following methods of active or isopathic inoculation may be differentiated :—• (1) Protective inoculation with living virulent virus.