340 ICHTHYOSIS Callositas.—The most common form of simple hyperplasia of the horny layer is seen in the callosities, which may develop on any part of the body subjected to continuous pressure or irritation. These callosities frequently occur in the hands of workers in various trades, such as mechanics, shoemakers, carpenters, tailors, and others, and are directly caused by the irritation resulting from the continued use of hand tools. Similar changes occur on the finger tips of stringed instrument players, on the hands of oarsmen, and the hands of metal workers who handle mineral acids. The callosities vary in position according to the particular kind of tool used, and, as Hebra pointed out, the occupation of a man may often for this reason be ascertained by examination of the hand. It must not be forgotten, however, that callo- sities may develop in other regions, such as vmder badly fitting belts or trusses, and on the feet from ill-fitting boots. Local llyperlceratosis associated ivith general Skin Diseases.—When the palms and soles are attacked in such diseases as eczema, psoriasis, lichen planus, and syphilis, the lesions often occur as localised patches with marked thicken- ing of the horny layer. This hyperkeratosis tends to mask the usual characters of such erup- tions in these regions, and in the absence of lesions on other parts of the body it may be difficult to make a positive diagnosis of the condition. Of these conditions the most pronounced hyperkeratosis is found in the tertiary syphilidc localised on the sole of the foot. Arsenical Keratosis.—-This condition is caused by the long-continued use of arsenic, and is usually accompanied by arsenical pigmentation, peripheral neuritis, or other manifestations of chronic arsenical intoxication. The eruption which generally appears first on the hands, and more rarely on the feet, consists primarily of patches of small warty growths situated round the orifices of the sweat ducts, and subsequently of callosities with a roughened dry condition of the intervening skin. Chronic liyperidrosis is a frequent concomitant, and it may precede the development of tlio hyperkera- tosis b}' a considerable period. As the lesions enlarge they tend to lose their nodular appear- ance and become diffused, raised, thickened, rougli patches. Tliese changes tend to persist indefinitely even after discontinuance of the drug. The most important point in connection witii arsenical keratosis is its liability to become the seat of epithelioma. Other forms of Local Hyperkeratosis. — Pro- longed liyperidrosis of the palms and soles, common in neurotics, excessive tea drinkers and alcoholics, may lead to considerable horny thickening, the skin becoming smooth with loss of the smaller natural lines. Occasionally con- siderable pain and tenderness is complained of, and painful cracks and fissures may form. Local horny thickenings have been observed as a result of venous stasis as a sequel to various nerve injuries, and during the course of tabes dorsalis. Of the more rare forms of hyperkeratosis may be mentioned the keratodermia erythematosa symmetrica of Besnier, in which there arises in early life multiple scaly patches on the palms and soles surrounded by a narrow erythematous zone. The condition is not hereditary like tylosis, and its cause is unknown. It gives rise to no severe symptoms, and persists throughout life. A somewhat similar affection has been de- scribed by Brooke under the name of erythema keratodes synimetricum. A sharply defined erythema appears on the palms and soles, and is followed by a superficial hyperkeratosis with some oedema and tender- ness. This condition is readily cured, and appears to be more of the nature of a primary inflammation. Treatment.—When the epidemic thickening is associated with some general disease the treat- ment should be modified accordingly. In cases where the condition is due to chronic irritation or continuous pressure these causes must be removed if cure is to be permanent. For local treatment the thickened tissue should be softened and pared down with a knife. For softening the surface the skin may be bathed with hot water and soft soap, and after- wards treated with wet dressings, such as solu- tions of caustic potash, salicylic acid, or acetic acid. The plaster muslins made by Beiersdorft", of Hamburg, containing salicylic acid, creasote, resorcin, and pyrogallol, if persistently used, may bring about a permanent cure. IchthyotOXin. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Eels). IchthysmuS.—Poisoning by the eating of fish. Icterus. — Jaundice. See Contusions (Clinical Features, Traumatic Icterus); H.-EMA- 'i'EMESis {Causes and Source); Heart, Affec- tion's OF Myocardium and Endocardium {Symp- tomatology, Enlargement of the Liver); Liver, Diseases of {Chronic Venous Congestion of the Liver); Liver, Diseases of {Hepatic Tuber- culosis) ; Liver, Diseases of {Icterus Gravis, Acute Yellow Atrophy); New-Born Infant {Icterus Neonatorum) ; Umuiijcus, Diseases of {Hemorrhage, Sepsis). Ictus EpileptiCUS.—An epileptic fit. See Epilepsy. Ictus Soils.—Sunstroke {(/.v.).