506 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF wliich it ought to contain. To the physician the direct restoration of function is less often possible, and when possible has rarely the dramatic suddenness and completeness which are achieved by the successful effort of the surgeon. The disturbing agent whose removal he attempts is rarely of the gross mechanical nature that so often has to be dealt with by the surgeon. Often it is some subtle poison to which he possesses no antidote ; often it is some diffused and microscopic degradation of tissue whose restoration, even if the degradation can be recognised, is beyond the resources of his art. Only when he possesses an antidote, only when he can neutralise the poison by the administration of some appropriate drug, as by mercury or iodide of potassium in syphilis, or by an appro- priate antitoxin in a specific fever, can he pursue the direct method of restoration of function in the former class. In the latter he is altogether powerless to pursue this method. All that he can do is to reduce the need to the level of the impaired function. When the aeration of the blood is impaired by disease of the respiratory organs or of the heart, he reduces the need for aeration by forbidding exercise. When the digesting power of the stomach is impaired, he reduces the need for digestion by reducing the quantity of food, or by administering food easy of digestion or already partly digested, or by administering digestive agents with the food. When the kidney fails in its power of eliminat- ing nitrogenised waste products, he diminishes the need for such elimination by diminishing the ingestion of nitrogenised food. When writ- ing is rendered impossible by writer's cramp, he diminishes the need for writing by ordering the use of a typewriter. When the function of a joint is impaired by inflammation, he keeps the joint at rest. In any case he reduces the need for the function as far as possible down to the capacity of the function impaired, and thus re- stores the balance between function and need. It is evident that this second mode of restor- ing the balance is a poor substitute for the first. The restoration of the impaired function to its normal standard is a true restitutio ad integrum, and brings the organism back to its full mea- sure of capacity. The reduction of the demand of the organism down to the level that the im- paired function can reach is at best a makeshift, and an acknowledgment of o\ir impotence to do better; but this second mode of restoring the balance is not without its influence on the first. The reduction of demand upon an impaired function influences the restoration of the func- tion in both a favourable and an unfavourable direction. On the one hand, the reduction of demand upon the function, especially if the reduction can be pushed to actual cessation, sets, in the one case a part, and in the other the whole, of the anabolic process free to work at the restoration of the damaged structiire. which otherwise would be engaged in the double process of restoring structure, and at the same time actuating function, a combination that is rarely within its capacity. When the hull of a ship is damaged, she must be brought into dock for repair; when her engines or her boilers are outworn, they cannot be made good while she is on active service; and similarly the tissues of the human body cannot undergo repair so long as full functional activity is demanded of them. Only during intermittence of function can redintegration progress ; and hence those tissues in which waste is most rapid and function most exhausting, need the frequent functional cessation of sleep to keep them in repair. The reduction of demand upon an impaired function is therefore a most important condition for the restoration of the function, and is in very many cases the chief, in many cases the sole, means at our command of bringing about the restora- tion of the fimction. On the other hand, no facts in physiology are better established than that function tends to increase with the demand that is made upon it, and that prolonged diminu- tion of demand is followed by diminution of function. From the arm of the blacksmith to the verbal memory of the actor, we see how demand increases function; from the leg of the omnibus-driver to the intelligence of the soldier, we see how lack of demand leads to cessation of function. Hence we are taught that while on the one hand, as soon as a fimction is impaired by disease, the demand upon it should be im- mediately reduced to the lowest possible level, yet on the other hand, as soon as the process of repair is well on the way, the demand should be cautiously increased, so as to lead forward and assist in the re-establishment of the func- tion. Applying these principles to the special case of insanity, we find that the treatment of that, as of all other maladies, is twofold. The main end in view in every case must be the restora- tion of function to its full capacity, and as a means to this end the demand upon the function must be reduced, at first to or below the level of the capacity of the impaired function. As and when improvement of function takes place, the demand upon it must be cautiously raised, and kept always just a little in advance of its capacity, so as to lure it by degrees to wider flights and stronger efforts. Even if no improve- ment appears to indicate the period at which increasing demands may be made, still the increase of function must, after a time, be called for, and persistently called for, such demand being commonly the only means at our disposal of eliciting an improvement in function. Seeing that of these two modes or aims of treatment of insanity the second is always possible, is always imperative, and the mode of effecting it usually clear and simple, it may be dealt with first; while as the other can be