HYPNOTISM 300 a phenomenally bad sailor, afterwards made several voyages to and from India, without sickness or rehypnotisation. Rheumatism.—Grossmann records 123 cases of chronic articular rheumatism, and claims to have obtained good results in every instance. Tatzel, Delius, and others, also report successful cases. As far as my personal experience goes, the pain of all forms of rheumatic affections, both acute and chronic, can be relieved or abolished by suggestion in deep hypnosis. In one instance, a commencing attack of rheumatic fever was apparently aborted by keeping the patient in the hypnotic trance for forty-eight hours. In two cases of rheumatoid arthritis good results were obtained, even although slight hypnosis alone was induced, e.g. Mr. , aged 45. Illness of two years' duration. Joints swollen and distorted; walked badly, use of hands and feet much impaired, and suffered from insomnia and severe pain. Careful treat- ment at home and at foreign baths had produced no improvement. After hypnotic treatment all morbid symptoms, except those due to organic changes in the joints, disappeared and the patient resumed work. Miss , aged 26.—Illness of seven years' duration. All the joints of the extremities were affected, knees ankylosed, elbows and wrists almost immovable. Patient unable to walk, or even to move in bed; she invariably slept on her back, and could not turn on to her side. The stiffness in the hip joints prevented her sitting; she was in constant pain, and suf- fered from emaciation and amenorrhoea. Result of hypnotic treatment: Patient now strong and well nourished. She sleeps well, is free from pain, and menstruation is regular. The absence of pain enabled passive movements to be made, and now, although there is still much stiffness and distortion, the patient can move freely in bed, walk with crutches, sit up with comfort, and use her hands for various forms of work. Deafness. — The range of hearing can be increased in the healthy individual by sugges- tion ; many instances are also reported in which improvement or recovery has taken place in cases where the hearing had been more or less impaired by accident or disease. In the majority of those I have observed, there was a history of scarlet fever with otorrhoea. In most cases the perforation of the drum had healed, and there was little to be observed in the way of physical abnormality. The hearing, however, was defec- tive on one or both sides, the watch being heard sometimes only at a distance of an inch or two, at others only on pressure. When deep hypnosis was induced, the results were frequently strik- ing, and the hearing became normal or even hyperfesthetic. Several years later the improve- ment was still maintained. In cases of total deafness — congenital or otherwise—no improvement was obtained. In Menier's disease the results are interesting. In a typical case, there had been sixteen years' deafness of the right ear and two years of the left. At first, the patient had suffered from occasional attacks of headache, giddiness, etc., these being followed by an increase in deafness. Later, there was marked vertigo, the patient was unable to walk unaided, and this was associated with rotatory movements, constant headaches, and numbness of the hands and feet. In all cases where deep hypnosis was induced, there was a slight improvement in hearing, with partial or complete disappearance of all the nervous symptoms. A year later, these patients reported that the improvement in hearing had not been maintained, b^^t that there had been no return of the nervous symptoms. Skin Diseases.—The following cases are from my own practice :— Mrs. , aged 49.—Pruritus vulvae and eczema of four years' duration, unrelieved by treatment. Intense nocturnal irritation, in- somnia, and chronic constipation. The uterus was retroflected and bound down by adhesions; this, together with the constipation, was sup- posed to have originated and maintained the disease. The sphincter ani was stretched under ether by Mayo Robson, but this neither cured the constipation nor relieved the other symp- toms. Hypnosis was induced at the sixty- seventh attempt. Result: Rapid and complete recovery, with no relapse after three years. Miss , aged 15.—On the back of the left arm, just above the wrist, a patch of skin, 2-| inches long by broad, was the seat of con- stant perspiration, which had existed from early childhood. This was always excessive, saturat- ing the bandages which enveloped the arm, and dripping upon the floor. Hypnosis, with som- nambulism, was induced at the first attempt, and next day the perspiration had markedly diminished. The patient was again hypnotised, when the perspiration ceased, and two years later there had been no relapse. Successful cases are reported by other writers. Thus, Hamilton Osgood cites (1) a case of severe and intractable eczema of nine years' duration in a boy, aged eleven. Hypnotised. Recovered. (2) Mrs. , aged 88, severe eczema of nine years' duration. Hypnotised. Recovered. (3) Mr. , aged 60, severe and painful eczema of forty years' duration. Hypnotised. Recovered. Therapeutic Summary. — Insanity. — Forel, while admitting the genuineness of Voisin's therapeutic results, asserted that his so-called insane patients simply suffered from hysteria. The brain, he says, is the instrument we employ in suggestion, and if the instrument itself is spoilt, we are no longer able to make use of it, or only to a very small extent, as a means of reacting upon itself and influencing its functions in general. In reply to this, Voisin, while denying that