HIP-JOINT, DISEASES OF 241 bone. Such extensive operations will usually be carried out by some form of racket incision, which will permit of the ligature of the main vessels as a preliminary measure. The Correction of Deformity resulting from Antecedent Disease of the Hip.—The deformities concerned have been already described as ac- companiments of hip disease; from neglect or improper treatment they may have been allowed to persist, while the joint disease has recovered. They are associated either with fibrous ankylosis of the joint, or with contracture of the soft parts, or a combination of these conditions. Osseous ankylosis is rare. The contracture of the soft parts specially involves the tendons, fascije, and ligaments on the anterior and inner aspects of the joint, and is usually present to such a degree that even if the joint were rendered mobile it would prevent correction of the deformity. It should be borne in mind that the difficulties of correction are so con- siderable, that it should not be attempted unless the deformity is a serious hindrance to locomotion or a bar to remiuierative occupa- tion. The deformity most often complained of is represented by a combination of shortening, flexion, and adduction. If flexion is the prominent featu7-e it may be corrected as follows:—The osteotomy is per- formed through the neck of the femTir if it exists (Adam's operation), or through the trochanter if the neck of the bone has dis- appeared ; the contracted soft parts are divided, either by subcutaneous or open tenotomy; the limb is then extended and abducted as described in excision of the joint. In patients whose occupations entail the sitting posture it may not be advisable to correct flexion. If adduction and inversion are the prominent features the choice lies between a transverse osteotomy below the lesser trochanter (Gant's operation), an oblique osteotomy (from above downwards and inwards) through the great trochanter, or a resection of the joint according to the special features of the case. The adductor muscles, fascia lata, and other contracted soft parts are divided by subcutaneous or open tenotomy. The limb is then forcibly abducted and extended ; the extension is maintained by the weight (10 to 20 lbs.) and pulley, the abduction by the double long splint already •described. In cases where the deformity is bilateral special efforts should be made to obtain a movable joint, at any rate on one side. Syphilitic Disease in the Region of the Hip-Joint is scarcely met except in the form of epiphysitis of the upper end of the femur in infants who are the victims of inherited syphilis ; it is attended with swelling and tenderness over the neck of the bone, and diminution of the voluntary movements of the limb (pseudo- paralysis) ; while passive movements may be VOL. IV restricted, this is rarely so pronounced as in tuberculosis. Pyogenic Diseases These include a number of diseased conditions resulting from infection of the joint with the common pyogenic organisms, e.g. the gonococcus, the typhoid bacillus. While the organisms usually gain access to the tissues of the joint through the blood-stream, a direct infection is occasionally observed from suppuration in the femoral lymphatic glands, or in the bursa under the ilio-psoas. The pyogenic diseases are chiefly met with in childhood and youth. The clinical features vary with the gravity of the infection ; they may be much less striking than is generally supposed. They may assume the form of an acute serous synovitis or hydrops, which recovers, or persists, or relapses after apparent cure. The features are often remark- ably latent, especially when the hip affection occurs as a complication of a general illness such as scarlet fever, partly because the patient is confined to bed from the first onset. The hip lesion has been known to escape notice altogether, until at a later period the head of the femur was found lying on the dorsum ilii, or the joint is found to be ankylosed. In the " acute arthritis of infants," resulting from staphylococcus osteomyelitis of the femur or acetabulum, the clinical features may also be comparatively mild, but as a rule they assume a type in which the suppurative element pre- dominates. There is general illness ushered in by a rigor and attended with an irregular remittent temperature ; the local features are those of an acute arthritis; there is great suffering and frequently danger to life; the joint is held rigid, there is agony on the least attempt at movement, there are startings at night, the muscles waste rapidly; the limb may retain its normal attitude, more often it becomes flexed and abducted, or adducted; a swelling- forms, usually in front of the joint at the upper part of Scarpa's triangle, pushing forwards the femoral artery; the swelling may be obscured by a3dema; if untreated the pus escapes from the joint and either gravitates down the limb or, as is more often observed, it bursts through the skin over the joint and discharges by one or more sinuses; the joint becomes disorganised, the head of the bone may be displaced on to the dorsum ilii, or the upper femoral epiphysis may be detached ; in the latter case the deformity resembles that which accompanies fracture of the neck of the femur. As a complication of other diseases, pyogenic affections of the hip-joint are usually met with in relation to pyaemia and septicaemia (including puerperal fever), scarlet fever, typhoid fever, measles, acute rheumatism, and gonorrhoea. In gonorrhoea the hip-joint is not uncommonly affected ; the clinical features may be those of a 16