485 INSANITY, ITS NATUKE AND SYMPTOMS their neighbours, that the world will not go right till they are dead, or that they must die to expiate their crimes, and not infrequently the grounds for bringing about their death are fur- nished by hallucinations. From that of the religious fanatic who hears God calling upon him to come away from the earth, to that of the degenerate criminal who is beset from morning to night by fierce voices which cry out upon him that he must be slain, there are endless forms of hallucinations such as may promote the suicidal determination. In suicidal melancholia, then, the systematic nature of the disease is obvious. It probably occurs in people who have not a normal fear of injury and of death. This lack of life-preserving instinct is an inherited quality of a negative kind, and when useful activities of an outward kind become impossible and pain supervenes the consciousness assumes the suicidal mode. It is fortmmtely rare, for all pronounced melan- cholies would be suicidal were it not that the vitality of the life-preserving instincts is enough to withstand and inhibit suicidal suggestion. But they all suffer some degree of abeyance of these instincts in their disregard of the calls of nature to which I have referred. No acute melancholic takes pains to live, though only a few take pains to die. Homicidal Melancholia.—Just as the melan- cholic's distress may find a systematic expression in a determination to commit suicide, so also may it find an outlet in homicide. Here again the apparently disorderly activity is one which has a definite place in the patient's conscious- ness. Just as he might believe his own death important, and bring it about, so also he may come to think that some one else should die, and attempt to achieve that. Sometimes these suicidal and homicidal intentions are associated. Hence those tragedies in which a father kills liis family and then perhaps himself. In some cases the homicidal melancholic entertains a delusional belief about people iu general, such as that the more people he can kill the better God will be pleased. Sometimes he believes himself called upon to extirpate a class of persons—the profligate perhaps, or the oppres- sive—and in his weak thinking he may attack persons who are not of the class referred to. More often the grounds of homicide are per- sonal, and the patient attacks persons whom he believes to be in conspiracy against him or otherwise the medium of his misery. And then also the signs by which he recognises those whom he considers his enemies are generally fanciful and slender. Lastly, he may select one individual, whom he may delu- sionally endow with evil powers, and plot and plan for his or her destruction. And in such cases we have specially to protect such persons towards whom the patient has conceived an antipathy. Often because of some real slight or injury, sometimes from unreasoning dislike, the patient will develop an extreme vindictive- ness as of an elephant or dog, supporting it with delusional arguments, and seeking an opportunity of homicide. To such cases the remarks ofiered as to the constitutional pre- disposition to suicide may be applied also to homicide, but translated into terms of the others'-life-preserving instincts. The instinct not to hurt or kill others is strong in our race, or if not always so, is carefully educated in most people. Agitated or Expressive Melancholia.— These varieties of melancholia which I have indicated are obviously a transition of the dis- order downwards and outwards. The morbid state in simple melancholia is centralised. In delusion, when the mind thinks about itself and explains itself, the emotional content is diminishing; in suicide there is a distinct though insane activity of a purposeful kind; in homicide it is still less central, more out- ward. And in tlie variety called agitated melancholia the outward activities, though on a low level, are A^ery manifest. The patient wrings her hands, tears her hair, sways up and down on her chair, or perhaps scurries about the room like a frightened rabbit, moans, groans, or cries aloud. In short the condition is one in which the gymnastic of distress in its most extravagant form has supplanted the distress. The consciousness has become a motor consciousness, and probably very little pain is felt. Actual shedding of tears is uncommon, and, moreover, when the patient is left to herself, the agitation often diminishes, and she is capable of apparently sane conduct. It is in relation to the presence of onlookers, or the knowledge that people are near, that is the occasion of agitated melancholia. In that re- spect the muscular activities of agitated melan- cholia differ from those of mania. Maniacal acts do not always express joy, are often with- out reference to the central state. Melancholic acts usually express grief, are the recognised medium of expression of the distressed con- sciousness. But angry mania and excited melan- cholia are not far removed. Any attempt to interrupt these movements of grief or of fear is usually resented, and the muscular pose becomes one of resistance. The consciousness of fear begets an active distrust; or at least the conduct of a resistive melan- cholic seems to imply that. But we err in assuming, in the insane, a mental content appropriate to their conduct. Their conscious- ness probably does not contain what the muscles express, and perhaps resistiveness is merely a muscular reaction implying an unthinking aver- sion to interference. These resistive cases are most difficult and call for most skilful nursing. The worst of them stiffen on the very approach of doctor or nurse, cling tight to the chair if