IMMUNITY 369 resulting protection lasts for about one year. Before the end of that time further injections may be given and the protection indefinitely prolonged. Lorenz has of late obtained his serum from horses, and he treats it so that it shall keep. Of 4540 swine immunised by this procedure in Germany in 1896, only two died, and that too seven months after treatment. According to Voges and Schtitz this procedure is best adapted for the finer breeds of swine, whilst Pasteur's method, as already mentioned, is more suitable for the ordinary breeds. Cattle Plague (^Rinderpest). — The investiga- tions of R. Koch, Kolle, and Turner show that there are two main forms of protective inocula- tion for cattle plague, the virus of which is still unknown. The one method is the use of the bile of animals which have died of cattle plague. The injection of 10 cc. of such bile confers, about ten days later, an immunity which last for several weeks, and which according to Koch and Kolle is an active one, the bile con- taining the attenuated virus. Compulsory inoculation with bile was attended, in Basuto- land for example, with the following results: of 100,000 animals 70,000 remained alive, whilst all the uninoculated herds died. Kohlstock modified and improved this method ; subsequent to inoculation with bile he injects 1 cc. of virulent cattle plague blood. As the bile of 3-7 oxen is required for the immunisation of 100 cattle, the combined use of serum and cattle plague blood is as a rule better than the "bile method." Cattle which have recovered from the disease are given increasing injections of cattle plague blood. They eventu- ally become highly immune, and furnish a very potent serum which may even effect a cure after the disease had commenced. 15-40 cc. of such serum are injected into one flank, 1 cc. of virulent cattle plague blood being injected at the same time into the other flank (simultaneous method). The results appear to be very satis- factory; of 9007 inoculated animals only 178 (1 '4 per cent) died of cattle plague, and more- over the immunity thus obtained lasts for some months. This latter method is not only the more effective, but also the cheaper of the two, since a highly immunised animal can furnish serum for 300 others. Yet the "bile method" is of service when a herd is attacked with the dis- ease, and there is then a sufficient supply of the vaccine. Conclusion.—The latest discoveries in con- nection with immunity are characterised by the specific hcBmolytic actions which Bordet was the first to investigate in detail. If a definite quantity of rabbit's blood be introduced into the peritoneum of a guinea-pig, the red blood corpuscles of the rabbit are somewhat slowly dissolved and eventually disappear completely. If, however, the same animal be given such VOL. IV injections repeatedly, its serum requires a specific hcemolytic action on the rabbit's red blood cor- puscles, so that they are much more rapidly destroyed than they would be in the serum of a normal guinea-pig. But the increased hsemolytic power of the serum has reference only to the red blood corpuscles of a rabbit, and not to those of any other animal. The condition is therefore analogous to the specific bactericidal actions. In a similar manner the serum of a rabbit may acquire a specific htemolytic action on the red blood corpuscles of the ox or the dog, after being treated with the blood of the ox or the dog respectively. The same rule probably holds good for the red blood corpuscles of all mammals in relation to all the different species of mammals {vide infra). Analogous conditions have been demonstrated for other forms of animal cells (ciliated epi- thelium, leucocytes, spermatozoa) by v. Dungem, Metschnikofi^, and others, for after treating an animal with such cells its serum acquires a specific destructive power on similar cells. Such specific treatment, which incites the elaboration of specific protective substances in the body, can therefore be carried out in an indefinite number of instances. Bordet proved that specific hsemolytic action is similar to specific bactericidal action in being due to the combined action of two different sub- stances, on the one hand that of a specific anti- substance which is preserved at 65° C, and on the other that of the non-specific alexin which effects the dissolution of the haemoglobin. The process in detail is that the specific anti- substance is attracted and bound to the blood corpuscles in question (Ehrlich and Morgenroth), which thereby become predisposed to the solvent influence of the alexin. The analogy to the specific bactericidal action is therefore complete ; in the latter instance the specific anti-substance (agglutinin) which is preserved at 65° C. becomes bound to the specific bacteria (Gruber, Hahn, and Trommsdorff'), which are thereby rendered susceptible to the action of the alexins. But we also know that the antitoxins—the specific substances of tetanus, diphtheria and other sera, which are preserved at 65° C.— neutralise the specific toxins by forming a sort of loose combination with them, and that here at any rate the action is in no way due to the alexins, because there are in this instance no foreign living cells. In consequence of all this, the essence in all cases of specific immunity consists in the fact that the organism is protected by the formation of a specific definite anti-substance or antitoxin which is preserved at 65°, and which has a peculiar atti-action for any foreign invader (toxin, bacteria, red blood corpuscles, etc.), and that what is thereby effected is a neutralisation (of poisons), or an alteration permitting the pjrotective action of the normal alexins to be displayed, (in the 24