INFECTION 412 infection may be complete, that is to say, certain species appear incapable of contracting certain infections, or it may be partial, in which case the power of resistance to a certain infection appears increased, and the disease, if caught at all, runs a mild course. This natural immunity has been variously attributed to (a) phagocytosis, (/S) to the presence in the blood of certain germi- cidal bodies called "alexins," which are of a different nature from antitoxins, and which can be separated from the blood and tissues of most animals, and (y) to a vital reaction of the tissues at present unexplained. This subject is fully discussed in the article " Immunity." Immunity may be "acquired " by a previous attack of the same infection. That is to say, one attack of an infectious disease usually pro- tects against that disease for life, or at least for a considerable period. This immimity is of course acquired during the attack of the in- fection, and it is its establishment that leads to a favourable termination. It may also be con- ferred by vaccination or by the injection of antitoxin prepared from the serum of an im- munised animal. Such antitoxin may be not only prophylactic in its nature, but actually curative, and it is on this that treatment by serum is based. It must be remembered that an infection is not always due to one germ only. There may exist what are called "associated infections," where the illness of the patient is due to the presence and action of two or more species of micro-organisms in combination. Thus clinical diphtheria may be not merely the infection of a nuicous membrane by Loffler's bacillus. With that bacillus may be associated various other forms of micro-organisms, such as, notably, the staphylococcus or the streptococcus. And a throat which is infected by these septic organisms is very often the starting-point of a toxic in- fection more severe than when merely a pure culture of the bacillus is present. In fact the more severe cases of diphtheria are those associ- ated with other micro-organisms. In the same way in inoculation experiments on animals it is found that certain microbes are far more virulent in their specific action if other micro- organisms are injected with them. Further, two or more pathogenic germs can exist in the human subject concurrently, and independently of each other produce the char- acteristic lesions and symptoms associated with each. In other words, coexistence of infectious diseases is quite possible, and, although it is a ])ossibility which is too often disregarded, is com- paratively common. The old view that two infections cannot exist together is quite an error, and any one with any experience of infectious disease has seen scores of cases of concurrence. One of the most frequent is the concurrence of scarlatina and diphtheria. The two diseases may exist together from the same date, or one may follow closely or tardily on the other. Again, a combination of scarlatina and measles in the same patient is by no means rare. And cases have been noted in which scarlatina, diphtheria, measles, and varicella have practically coexisted. The Prophylaxis of Infection.—To combat infection the most efficient method is care of the general sanitation in the first place, and of the health of the individual in the second. Re- membering the various ways in which infection may be carried to the individual, it is the duty of the community to secure that he should live in a pure atmosphere, have a water and milk supply that is above suspicion, and that the cleanliness of streets and houses should be made an object of rigid care. Should infection break out, the local authority depends on, firstly, notification, a system under which every prac- titioner who diagnoses a case of infectious disease is bound to notify the medical officer of health, which enables that officer to inquire into the cause of the outbreak and take the necessary measures for preventing its spread. Secondly, it depends on isolation of the infected person either in a fever hospital or in suitable rooms in the patient's own home. The latter plan is seldom safe unless the house is large and airy, and the whole top flat can be placed at the dis- posal of the invalid. Thirdly, in certain more dangerous diseases, such as plague or typhus, quarantine may be imposed on persons who have been in contact with the sufferer. Fourthly, in some diseases protective inoculation, such as antitoxin in diphtheria, or vaccination in small- pox, may be offered to the so-called " contacts." In addition to these steps great attention must be paid to disinfection, and the reader is here referred to the article under that head (vol. ii). For the benefit of medical ofticers of schools the following rules will be found useful :— Rules for the Prevention of Infectious Disease 1. The following diseases are considered in- fectious :—Whooping cough, diphtheria, measles, scarlet fever, German measles, small-pox, typhus fever, typhoid fever, chicken-pox, mumps, ring- worm. 2. At the beginning of each term, cei"tificates, which will be duly sent to parents and guardians, are required to be shown to the headmaster on the entry or return of pupils, signed by the parents or guardians, not earlier than the day before admission, stating that to the best of their knowledge the pupil has not, for at least three weeks, been exposed to any infectious disease, nor entered any house where such disease has existed. 3. If a pupil take an infectious complaint, or has been in any way exposed to infection during