INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 554 neck and hands should be rubbed with a warm towel and one-twentieth of a grain of strychnine given hypodermically. If recovery does not soon manifest itself, one pint of normal sterile saline should be slowly injected under the pec- toral muscle on each side, with strict precautions against septic contamination. For the purpose of procuring rest a single dose of morphia, one- third of a grain hypodermically, is ordered as soon as the patient begins to complain of pain or to get restless. In twelve hours five ad- ministrations of calomel in one-grain hourly doses should be commenced iinless flatus has been freely passed, when nothing should be given. After five doses of calomel, if flatus still refuses to come away, the insertion of a rectal tube may be tried. If this fail, a turpentine and soap-and-water enema will assist it, and this may be repeated every four hours. Opium should not be given after the first dose unless the patient is obviously dying. In the matter of feeding, my rule is not to allow more than the smallest quantity of hot fluid, usually a teaspoonful of hot water with a few drops of brandy in it, if required, until flatus has been passed, then to administer small and gradually increasing quantities of milk and barley-water. As soon as free evacuation of the bowels has occurred more solid food may be partaken of. Intimitis.—-Inflammation of the intima or the lining membrane of a blood-vessel. See Arteries, Diseases of. intoier£ince.—Undue susceptibility to the effects of a drug or method of treatment; inability to resist such effects. lntOXica.tion. Alcoholism ; Septi- CyEMiA; Toxicology. Intra.-.—In compound words intra- signi- fies within, e.g. intra-abdominal, intracapsular, intra-articular, intracranial, intralaryngeal, in- traocular, intraorbital, intraperitoneal, intrathor- acic, intra-uterine, intravenous, and intravesical. IntroituS. — The opening of a canal or cavity by which it communicates with the ex- terior, e.g. introitus vaginse. Introspection.— In insanity, morbid introspection, or "an unnatural dwelling on and inquiring into one's own acts," is a common symptom. See Insanity, Nature and Symp- toms. Intubation. See also Diphtheria {Treat- ment) ; Larynx, Diseases of. The operation of intubation or tubage of the larynx consists in the introduction through the mouth of a metal tube provided with a collar which, when the tube is in position, lies upon the vocal cords. The tubes are of different sizes, and are gradu- ated according to the age of the patient. The introduction is effected by means of an intro- ducer, an instrument consisting of a long curved stem and handle, and provided at the end with, a screw or catch to which is fixed the jointed metal guide on which each tube tits loosely. A gag having been inserted in the left side of the mouth, the patient may be held in a sitting posture on a nurse's knee, or may be placed lying on the back with the limbs firmly con- trolled. The operator introduces the left fore- finger, and passes it behind the epiglottis. As soon as he feels the opening of the glottis he introduces the tube alongside his finger, and lifting the handle of the introducer, he brings, the point of the tube under the tip of the finger and into the opening of the glottis. Then by means of a mechanism which differs in the different instruments he pushes the tube off" the guide and leaves it lying in position in the larynx. As the operation is one of considerable diffi- culty, and there is always a chance of the tube- slipping into the oesophagus, it is absolutely necessary that a loop of thread be passed through a hole in the collar of the tube, so that if the tube is not in position, it can be at once with- drawn. It is usual after the operation is com- pleted to remove this string by pulling on one- end, but some prefer to leave it, and fix it by sticking plaster to the outside of the child's, cheek. The advantage of this method is that should the tube be suddenly blocked by a piece of membrane, a nurse can pull it out at once, instead of having to wait till the surgeon uses the- extractor provided with every set of instruments. The patient readily accustoms himself, more- over, to the presence of the string in the mouth. It may be added, that if the string is to be left in permanently, wire banjo string is most suit- able as not being so easily bitten through. If the obstruction for which the operatioa has been performed is at, or in the immediate neighbourhood of the glottis, the introduction of the tube relieves the symptoms at once. There is usually a certain difficulty in swallow- ing at first, but in the hands of careful nurses,, if the patient is fed sufficiently slowly, it is easy to supply an adequate amount of nourishment. Soft solids, jelly, baked custard pudding, and so on, are taken better than fluids. Nasal feeding, if necessary, can be resorted to. If there are no marked signs of irritation and no aggravation of the temperature, the tube may be left in from two to three days, when it should be taken out and cleaned. Quite frequently it is unnecessary to replace it. In any case it shovild not be reintroduced unless the state of the patient absolutely requires it. Advantages.—The advantages of this opera- tion are that it may often prevent the necessity of a cutting operation, so dreaded by parents, and that it, in the case of diphtheria, gives time^