540 INTESTINES, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF with its commencement and termination close together. The loop has consequently a narrow neck, and in patients snffei'ing from habitual constipation is hlled with heavy mattei", which tends to elongate its mesentery. Volvulus is one of the most acute varieties of intestinal obstruction. By torsion of the mesentery the circulation of blood in the involved intestinal loop is suddenly interrupted. The intestine becomes of a plum colour, and rapidly distends with gas and fluids. Obstruc- tion is caused by the pressure produced by one end of the loop pressing upon the other end. Fig. 4.—Volvulus of sigmoid flexure. The distension of the sigmoid loop may become so great that the whole abdomen appears to be occupied by it, and the diaphragm may be pushed up, pressing upon and displacing the heart. Organisms soon find their way through the damaged and softened gut, and peritonitis as the result of this transmigration frequently causes death. If the patient lives long enough small patches of gangrene appear in the gut, and by perforation of these rapidly fatal peri- tonitis may be caused; but this, owing to the speedy fatal issue, is a rare termination. I have recently met with a rare case in which volvulus of the sigmoid was the cause of chronic obstruction. Kinks. — Kinks are often the result of fixation of an intestinal loop l)y adhesion, and occur at the junction of the fixed with the movable portion {see Fig. 3). At other times they result from the union of two loops, as when a strangulated hernia is reduced and the damaged bowel is retained by inflammatory adhesions in the position held by it in the sac. I'he possibility of displacement and compression of the intestine by tumours external to it, though rare, ought to be borne in mind. Tumours of the ovary, of the uterus, of the broad ligament, of the pancreas, of the liver, of the spleen, of the kidney, and inflammatory masses, have all been noted as causes of intestinal obstruction. 3. Blocking of the Lumen from within.—The most common cause of this accident is a large gall-stone, which usually escapes into the small intestine by a direct fistulous communication between the gall-bladder and the duodenum. It would appear unlikely that a gall-stone small enough to get through the common bile duct could obstruct the intestine. The stone may be arrested at any part of its course through the small intestine, but its usual place of arrest is in the lower ilemu. If it passes into the large intestine the dangers are as a rule over, though I have operated on a case of intestinal obstruction produced by a gall-stone blocking and causing inflammation of the sigmoid flexure, and have had to remove from the rectum a large gall-stone which could not pass the anal sphincter, and was causing serious obstruction symptoms. Hard ffecal masses, clumps of cherry-stones, intestinal calculi, and a variety of foreign bodies, introduced either by the mouth or rectum, are also reported as causes of ()bstruction. Polypi may be benign or malignant, and single or multiple. Next to the rectum they are most fi'equently seen in the colon or ileum. Obstruction may be caused directly by the tumour or tumours blocking the intestine, or l)y their pi-oducing intussusception through dragging on their attachments. 4. Strictures. — Strictures are simple and malignant, the latter chiefly predominating. Malignant strictures are most commonly found at and after middle life, and in the large intestine. In the small intestine they are comparatively rare. Not uncommon sites are the ileo-csecal valve, the hepatic and splenic flexures of the colon, and the sigmoid flexure. Apart from the rectum, they occur with the gi'eatest frequency in the sigmoid flexure (in 60 per cent of cases). The stricture is brought about by an annular growth, sometimes remarkably limited, of cylindrical-celled carcinoma, which contracts the bowel more and more as it grows. Cancerous growths of the bowel wall and growing into its lumen occasionally obstruct it, though not caus- ing genuine stricture, and the same is true of other growths, such as lipomata, fibromyomata, polypi, adenomata, sarcomata, and cysts, all of which, though rare, have been found. Simple strictures are commonly found in the small intestine, and are comparatively rare in the large. They occur mostly in young people, and their couunonest cause is a healed tuber- culous ulcer in the neighbourhood of the ileo- caecal valve. Other causes are : congenital