13 HAAB'S MACULAR DISEASE Haab's Macular Disease. See Eyeball, Injuries of (^Injuries by contusion, Rupture of the Choroid). Haarlem. See Balneology {Hollayid). Habit. See Insanity, Nature and Sym- ptoms {Index of Mental Functions, Habit); Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths {Habitual Mouth Breathing). Habit Chorea or Habit Spasm. —A form of chorea, also known as convulsive tic. See Chorea (Diagnosis) ; Rheumatism in Children {Symptoms, Nervous). Habits. See MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED Drug Habits. Habitual Abortion. See Abortion {Recurrent). Habitual Drunkards. See Alco- holism {Treatment). Habitus.—The external indication of a constitutional morbid state, such as the apo- plectic habitus, or the habitus phthisicus. Hacker's (Von) Operation.—Pos terior gastro-enterostomy. See Stomach, Sur- gical Affections of {Ojxrations on the Stomach). Hacking' Cough.—A shallow, fre- quent, and (usually) dry cough. Hacking Movements.—Strokes or beats, in use in massage, applied either by the finger tips, or the ulnar side of the hand, or the dorsal surface of the three middle fingers. Haddock. See Invalid Feeding {Food for the Aged, Fish). Hsema.—In compound \yords Acewia-signi- fies relating to the blood (Gr. al/jLa, blood), but it is an incorrect form, and hwmato- or hoemo- ought to be employed ; e.g. hoemochroses, or dis- eases in which the colour of the blood is changed. Hsemacy to meter. — An instrument for ascertaining the number of red corpuscles in the blood, more correctly hwmatocytometer. Hsemadipsia Ceylonica.—A small land leech which draws blood through the skin, it may be with fatal effects. Hsemagglutinins. See Agglutina- tion ; Immunity ; Typhoid Fever {Pathology). HsemagOgue.—A medicine promoting the menstrual discharge, or a hfemorrhoidal flux. Hsemaibumin.—A preparation said to contain the salts and albuminoids of the blood. HaBmalopia or Haemalops. — A condition of the eye in which everything appears to have a blood - red colour; or, simply, an effusion of blood into the eye. Haemamceba and Hsemamoe- biasis. See Malaria {Synonyms); Parasite {Protozoa, HcBmosporidia, Hmmamoeba Dani- lewskii). Hsemangioma.—A tumour or forma- tion made up almost entirely of blood-vessels. See Tumours (Angeiomata). Haemaphsein.— A brown colouring matter of the blood, probably due to decom- position of hsematin. Haemarthrosis.—An effusion of blood into the cavity of a joint. See H/EMOPHilia ( Joint Affections); Joints, Diseases of {Ha^mar- throsis. Bleeders' Joint); Knee-Joint, Injuries OF (Wounds). Haematamoeba. See h^mam(eba. Haematelytrometra.-An accumu- lation of menstrual blood in the vagina and uterus, usually on account of the presence of an imperforate hymen or vaginal atresia. Haematemesis. Distinction from Conditions that may SIMULATE H.EMATEMESIS . . .13 Hcemoptysis . . . . .14 Feigned Hcematemesis . . .14 (Esophageal Hatmorrhage . . .14 True H.ematemesis— Characters . . . . .14 Causes and Source . . . .15 Diagnosis . . . . .16 Prognosis . . . . .16 Treatment . . . . .17 AS'eea^so Aorta, Aneurysm and Dilation (Cowrse and Terminations, Rupture); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Hcematetnesis); Gela- tin ; HAEMOPTYSIS {Diagnosis); -Hysteria {Dis- orders of the Digestive System); Liver, Diseases OF {Hypertrophic Biliary Cirrhosis, Physical Signs); Liver, Diseases of {Signs and Sym- ptoms of Cirrhosis, HcEmatemesis); Liver, Dis- eases OF {Portal Thrombosis, Symptoms) : Mal- ingering {Digestive System and Alimentary Canal); Mel.ena {Surgical Treatment); Myiasis {Intestinal Symptoms) ; New-born infant {Dis- eases, Melaina); Spleen, Surgery of {Oblitera- tion of Splenic Vein, Hcematemesis): Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases of {Special Sym- ptomatology of Ulcer of the Stomach, Vomiting). H/Ematemesis, or vomiting of blood from the stomach, must, in the first instance, be distin- guished from the discharge by the mouth of blood derived from other sources. The com- monest and most important of these is htemo-