HiEMATURIA 25 it must be borne in mind that saliva gives the same reaction as blood. Differential Diagnosis of the Source of the Hcemorrhage.—The methods employed may be classified as follows :— Firstly, by observing (a) the physical char- acters of the urine and of the blood-clot; {b) the admixture of other deposits with the blood; (c) the time at which the blood appears in the stream; {d) the frequency and duration of attacks; and (e) the effects of movements and exercise, or of complete rest, in the course of an attack. Secondly, by collecting the urine separ- ately from the two ureters, or by observing blood escaping from the orifice of a ureter. Thirdly, by carefully considering all the other accompanying objective and subjective pheno- mena. I. {a) Physical Examination of the Urine and the Circ2imstances connected with the Presence of Blood in the Evacuation.—The following ques- tions must be inquired into and answered :—• What is the colour of the blood 1 Is it inti- mately mixed with the urine, and is the whole stream equally colourised 1 Is the quantity of blood augmented by exercise or diminished by rest 1 Have clots been seen, and what is their form? Are there tube-casts or blood-casts to be discovered, or are there other deposits found in the urine 1 Are the attacks frequently repeated and of short duration, or are they pro- tracted 1 The colour imparted to the urine by the addition of blood varies greatly in intensity and shade—from a pale rose colour to a bright red, like red currant syrup mixed in water, to a dark red, to a colour simulating porter, or to a brown coloration not unlike coff'ee. As a general rule, however, it may be stated that the nearer the source of haemorrhage is to the external orifice of the urethra the less is the blood altered in appearance. When the hsematuria is of vesical origin, the first quantity of urine passed may present a normal appearance, especially if the patient has been for some time at rest in a recumbent posture, and the urine is passed while the patient is in bed ; but in such circumstances, as the bladder empties itself, the urine gradually becomes more and more tinged, till finally the last drops evacuated may be almost pure blood. This is to be especially noted in cases of tumour of the bladder and of vesical calculus, also in passive hypersemia of the bladder. As a general rule, in haemorrhage from the bladder the urine is mixed with a considerable quantity of mucus, and is of a bright florid colour; but, if long pent up in the viscus, it may assume a dark colour dependent upon the reaction of the urine, which in such cases is usually alkaline. When due to vesical calculus the hcxniiorrhage is in- creased by exertion, and in cases of tumour of the bladder the bleeding is always worse after an attempt has been made to examine the bladder by instruments. When the blood is from the kidneys or the ureters it is generally intimately mixed with the urine, to which it imparts a dark smoky colour, unless when the blood issues in considerable quantity from the pelvis of the kidney, and flows rapidly along the ureter, distends the bladder, and escapes without undergoing much change. Blood having escaped from the vessels, its fibrous constituents may coagulate into firm clots, which during their formation may entangle some of the histological elements of the struc- tures in which they lie, or by their firm appear- ance, form, or bulk may indicate the source of the haemorrhage. Clots are seldom noticed in the urine unless in cases of abundant haemor- rhage ; they may be few in number or numer- ous ; generally they are soft in consistence, and when small in size they are easily dissolved in the urine, and consequently, if not looked for immediately after micturition, they may be lost. The form of the clot may be ovoid, or may be long and worm-shaped, or may resemble in appearance a well-gorged leech. As to colour they are generally dark red, but may vary con- siderably, sometimes being black, bright red, or they may become partly or wholly discoloured —spotted red in a greyish background, or entirely grey. When the clot is large the haemorrhage is usually, but not invariably, from the bladder; the clots may be so huge that they cannot pass along the urethra without being broken up either by the repeated contrac- tion of the bladder or by means of instruments. Rounded clots corresponding to the diameter of the ureter may escape, or leech-like ovoid casts may be taken of the first part of the urethra, or long boiigie-like coagula from its anterior part. While the presence of considerable clots is usually, though not always, conclusively against the idea of the haemorrhage being from the secreting substance of the kidney, the ab- sence of clots visible to the eye proves nothing. If the passage of a long worm-shaped blood-clot is preceded by a temporary cessation of the haematuria, and its escape followed by a recur- rence of the bleeding, this proves almost to demonstration that the clot has been plugging one ureter ; and if, in addition, the clot is of such a size as to support the idea of being a mould of the ureter, the evidence is conclusive as to the source of the haemorrhage. In renal haematuria, minute coagula, casts of the uriniferous tubules, may be discovered in the urinary sediment by the microscope, and may give evidence by their form and shape whence they are derived. In this form of hajmaturia the number of blood corpuscles is no criterion of the quantity of albumin in the urine, whereas in haemorrhage from the conducting or collecting portions of the urinary tract, provided there is no pus in