U6 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM all the following clay, respiration and circulation being well maintained, and only benefit resulting. There are very few heart cases, other than those associated with aortic disease in the wide sense, that depend on muscle failure promoted by or actually dependent on syphilitic lesions of the myocardium,! ^nd the possibility of anti- syphilitic therapeutics being beneficial, if not curative, of the case must not be lost sight of. The patient will probably have indications of heart failure, the common antecedents of which are absent while he has had syphilis. It must be remembered, however, that because a lesion is syphilitic it is not therefore removable by mercury and iodide of potassium; the tissue destroyed cannot be restored, although the neoplasm may be atrophied. A drug that has come greatly into vogue of late is liquor strychniee (or an equivalent pre- paration) in the treatment of advanced heart disease. The writer regards it as essentially a respiratory stimulant, and of its value as such in these cardiac cases there can be no question. It is best given hypodermically, but this method is naturally not to be recommended until the case has become very serious. Atropine has a somewhat similar stimulant action on the re- spiratory centre, but its use is almost confined in the treatment of heart disease to guarding, as it were, the use of morphine. Strychnia may be used for the same purpose. The use of strychnia in early stages of heart disease as a general tonic has been already referred to. The consideration of the treatment of the special ailments that result from the disturbed circulation of the various organs in heart disease may be carried to indefinite length, but too much attention to these is apt to throw into the background the great and essential "ten- dency to death," namely, heart failure, of which these ailments are for the most part compara- tively insignificant consequences. If we succeed in restoring the heart, all such ailments will speedily be relieved. On the other hand, the most efficient treatment directed to local con- sequences in the different organs must fail, if no improvement in the general circulation is accomplished, but this statement must not be taken to imply that local symptoms are not to receive local treatment according to the dictates of common sense and common medical know- ledge. Heart Block. Definition . . . . . .146 Anatomical and Physiological . . 146 Clinical Features . . . .147 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .147 By this term is meant an interruption in the wave of contraction, which, passing from the ^ See also "Syphilis." auricles to the ventricles, constitutes the normal beat of the heart. When the wave is blocked, instead of the auricular and ventricular con- tractions occurring in harmoniously co-ordinated sequence, they become dissociated and inde- pendent of one another. The ventricular con- tractions begin to take place much less fre- quently than those of the auricles, and as a result bradycardia is established. This brady- cardia, when, as is often the case, associated with syncopal or epileptiform attacks, is known as Stokes-Adams disease. It is now certain that this complex of symptoms is always due to heart block, and has for its pathological basis a lesion of the conducting fibres between auricle and ventricle. With the elucidation of the anatomical, phy- siological, and clinical aspects of heart block we must associate the names of Kent, His, Gaskell, Wenckebach, Erlauger, Hering, Mackenzie, Gibson, and Tawara, all of whom have made noteworthy contributions to the subject. Anatomical and Physiological.—The wave of contraction normally passes from auricles to ventricles by way of the auriculo-ventricular bundle of Kent and His. The fibres of this bundle differ structurally from the rest of the heart muscle, and their course can therefore be traced (as has been done by Tawara) by special methods. They form a system ramifying under the endocardium, and serving to co-ordinate the movements of the chambers of the heart. Broadly, they are distributed in this fashion. The central point in the system is a knot, or plexus of fibres, lying above the attachment of the middle cusp of the tricuspid valve. From this nodal point the fibres run down in two main bundles, one to each ventricle, which subdivide, forming the trabeculte, and end in the papillary muscles. They are insulated from the rest of the heart by a connective-tissue layer. The left main trunk can often be seen in elderly persons as a whitish band measuring one-fourth of an inch across below the pons membranacefe septi. The nodal point is brought into connection with the auricles by the auriculo-ventricular bundle, which extends from the coronary vein along the right side of the inter-auricular septum to the position of the knot. The auricular fibres of the system are finer than the ventricular, and like them ramify in the walls of the chambers from which they arise. By experiment upon animals it has been ascertained that the time required for the trans- mission of an impulse from auricles to ventricles along the a.-v. bundle is i second. The impulse can be checked more or less completely by com- pressing the bundle more or less forcibly. When this is done an interesting series of phenomena follow. Slight pressure causes a progressive lengthening of the periods wliich elapse between successive auricular and ventricular contractions, until at length one ventricular beat is dropped