130 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM indicates tlie large right chambers and small left ventricle that theory would lead one to regard as characteristic of the lesion. When in a long- standing case of mitral stenosis seen for the first time, enlargement of the cardiac dulness in the three directions—upwards, to the right, and to the left—may cause the dull area to resemble in shape and size the dull area due to pericardial effusion, as Sir Wm. Gull long ago pointed out. The average size of the heart in fifty-five cases of mitral stenosis was —— 14—H Auscultation.—The cardiac sounds always to be given precedence, in relation with murmurs, in the auscultatory examination of the heart often furnish evidence of chief importance in cases of mitral stenosis. The first sound at the apex is apt to be abrupt, accentuated, and short, and often possesses these characters quite apart from association with the presystolic murmur, of which it must be admitted such a modified first sound forms an integral part. The second sound in the same situation—the "apex-beat" —likewise often undergoes modification, and in one or other, it may be said, of opposite direc- tions, for it may be doubled or it may be absent. In the former case it may well be doubted if the nomenclature is correct, and if we are dealing with the physiological second sound of the heart at all. The second sound of the pulmonary artery is usually, apart from reduplication, accentuated, the closure of the valves being often so forcibly effected as to communicate a perceptible shock to the palpating hand placed over the valves which lie superficially. The reduplication of the second sound (so-called) in mitral stenosis is often best heard to the left of the lower half of the sternum, and the relation- ship of such a reduplicated diastolic sound to the like sound met with in combination as the bruit de galop in muscle failure is of great interest. It rarely happens that in a case of mitral stenosis the heart sounds are normal in the absence of murmur, though for a time the lesion may thus be quite latent. The most common murmur present in cases of mitral stenosis is one that has no direct asso- ciation with the lesion at all, namely, the systolic murmur of mitral incompetence, but the very fact of the presence of stenosis implies that the mitral curtains are deformed, and it is hardly to be wondered at, if the murmur significant of incompetence should be—as it unquestionably is — the most common. This murmur may replace the first sound altogether, or it may follow the first sound, modified or normal. In either case, auscultation at the back, about the region of the angle of the left scapula, may afford a certain amount of evidence in favour of the lesion, by showing that the first sound is distinct in this region, while the murmur is absent. Unfortimately, the murmur being well hoard at the back, and the sound being quite inaudible there,—whether present or not at the apex, — will not enable us to exclude mitral stenosis from the diagnosis. Moreover, in cases of mitral incompetence due to simple muscle failure, the non-conduction of the murmur to the back, and the presence of the first sound at the back, are as common as in mitral stenosis. In a statistical inquiry as to the frequency of the diff'erent murmurs in a group of sixty cases, it was found that systolic murmur was present at the apex in 75 per cent of the cases, and that this murmur was inaudible at the back in 46"66 per cent, while it was present at both apex and back in 28'33 per cent {Medical Chronicle, vol. iii. p. 409, 1895). Presystolic Jihirmur. — In the whole wide range of cardiac auscultation, the murmur that at once has the greatest diagnostic value, and shows the greatest caprice as regards its pre- sence or absence at different times, is the notorious aiu-icular systolic or presystolic mitral murmur. No other murmur, besides, has such definite characters, and no other murmur depends on such an unalterable condition of lesion. The presystolic murmur has usually a definite and limited localisation—the "apex- beat "—and it is only exceptionally heard widely distributed over the cardiac area, and only very rarely is it heard at the back. The accentuated first sound, however, which may be regarded as an integral part of the murmur, is often widely conducted. As regards its special characters the presystolic murmur is absolutely different from any other murmur known in clinical medi- cine. It is crescendo, and closes abruptly at its maximum with the modified first sound referred to. The coarseness of its vibrations gives it another peculiarity, so that it is the most palp- able of murmurs, while the tactile sensations it occasions are similar to the aural, in that the crescendo character and the abrupt termination, when it is at its maximum, are as pronounced in the one case as in the other. The charactei's referred to are so peculiar that one can hardly help associating them with the commonly accepted view of the mode of causation of the murmur by the current of blood passing through the constricted orifice by virtue of the contrac- tion of the left auricle, which must gather force as the auricle diminishes in capacity—contracts down on its contents — and must be brought instantly to a standstill the moment the left ventricle passes into contraction. In the statistical inquiry already referred to, the presj'stolic murmur occurred in 53-3 per cent of the cases; that is to say, a presystolic murmur had been heard at one time or another while the patient was under observation in this percentage of cases. Diastolic Murmurs. — A considerably more frequent murmur in mitral stenosis is the dia- stolic, but its diagnostic value is much less, inasmuch as aortic murmiu's of the same rhythm