HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 144 of digitalis precedes in the great majority of cases the recovery of arterial tension. Strophanthus seems to be certainly a less cumulative drug than digitalis, but, if its ad- ministration be long continued, similar toxic symptoms, including abdominal pain, vomiting, and irregular action of the heart, are apt to be developed. The writer possesses charts to show that sometimes strophanthus will succeed after digitalis has apparently failed to produce a diuresis, and vice versa. In the former case, however, it is at least open to question if the influence of the digitalis has not had a share in the result. He has not found strophanthus useful in irregular action of the heart ^Jer se ; he has thought, indeed, that it at times aggravated the irregularity. He has, moreover, been quite unable to formulate rules for guidance in the preference of strophanthus and digitalis, and he recalls one case of grave damage to the mitral valves and much dilatation of the heart in a rheumatic girl, in which digitalis always failed to benefit in the slightest degree, while stro- phanthus as regularly was followed by the best I'esults, the experiment being repeated on several —many—occasions during the long period of the patient's residence in hospital. It may be added that the pulse tension was very low, altogether in opposition to theoretical considerations concerning indications for the preference of strophanthus. There are numerous drugs capable of produc- ing diuresis in heart disease, which are seldom given a fair chance, seeing that they are only used after digitalis at least has failed, and often after both digitalis and sti'ophanthus have done so: convallaria, apocynum, scoparius, etc. Then there is the series of drugs that seem to act on the kidney, rather than the heart, in the production of diuresis—diuretin (Knoll) is probably the best example of this class. The writer recalls an exceedingly grave case of aortic incompetence which seemed steadily going from bad to worse in spite of digitalis, strophanthus, etc., but in which there was the remarkable (under the circumstances) fact of the absence of even a ti-ace of albumin from the urine. Basing his action on the soundness of the kidneys, he ordered diuretin—2 grs. every hour—with the result of establishing a profuse and long-main- tained diuresis, which removed all dropsy and enabled the patient, to the marvel of physicians and nurses alike, to leave the hospital for his own home, much relieved. In cases neither cardiac nor renal, again, he has found the drug useful in setting up a diuresis for the jaurpose of removing local dropsies of inflammatory origin, as pleuritic eft'usion. Sometimes the drug pro- duces sickness, which prevents the continuance of its use. It is the diuretic of all others whose effects the writer has been able repeatedly to reproduce at intervals. It is probable that diuretin acts specially by stimulating the kidney, and the writer believes that he has seen it twice produce hajmaturia in cases of tubular nephritis, as if by over-stimulation. Citrate of caff'eine, to which diuretin is closely related, is another drug that acts principally on the kidney; most ad- mirable results are sometimes obtained liy its use, but it is somewhat capi'icious—or perhaps seemingly capricious—in its effects, of which we have not yet a perfect knowledge. In considering the records of the past concern- ing the treatment of heai't disease, one cannot fail to be struck by the high place among remedies given by the old physicians to purgatives. That these were often used to the detriment of the patient cannot be doubted, but it is no less certain that our forefathers, who were keen observers, based their practice on a measure of experience. At the present time it is dis- critnination in the use of purgatives that is the desideratum. Such discrimination must be based chiefly upon the condition of the pulse, or, to put the matter more preciselj^, upon the arterial tension. It cannot be too strongly insisted upon, that the finger must not be trusted to indicate the degree of vascular tension with absolute precision, while a sphygmogram can be taken easily within five minutes even in difficult cases, and at once indicates the nature of the pulse with which we have to deal. It is necessary here again to refer to the fact, already previously emphasised, that a high degree of tension is not rarely—not possibly—■ but is commonli/ associated with a labouring- failing heart. No doubt, provided the cardiac failure be progressive, so will be progressive the lowering of arterial tension, but the process m ly be a long one, and of immense importance is the fact that the patient may not survive it. That a sharp purgative by its action tends to reduce arterial tension is certain, and we cannot be surprised that it is so, in view of the tremendous influence exerted by the state of the vaso-motor nervous mechanism of the ab- dominal vascular sj'stem upon the distribution of the blood as a whole, as we see that influence exerted after surgical shock. The mere contem- plation of such an influence may well give us pause, when we think of ordering a sharp purge in an advanced cardiac case with the pulse flickering at the wrist. Few medical practitioners of large experience can look back over many years without recalling the disastrous effects of a purga- tive given when the heart was very weak, and it need not be a "diseased heart" in the ordinary acceptation of the term. Even the use of an enema under like circumstances is well known to be rarely followed by disastrous—even lethal —consequences. These remarks must suffice to warn the reader against the indiscriminate use of sharp purgatives. On the other hand, in cases of high arterial tension with labouring heart, they bring much aid to the overburdened organ by lightening its load, and no doubt help to clear the blood of injurious toxins.