192 HERNIA anterior superior spine. This form is probably by far the most frequent. In a very few cases, not five in all, the apparent reduction has occurred into one of the interstitial sacs beneath or superficial to the external oblique. Such a case was that under the care of Mr. Cock (Guy's Hospital Museum, No. 1120). 2. Reduction of the whole sac within the abdomen but outside the peritoneum, the relations of sac and contents to one another being unaltered and strangula- tion at the neck still persisting. It is probable that the loosening of the sac is of long duration and is the result of vigorous and ill-regulated taxis. This variety is rare. It was first de- scribed by Saviard, afterwards by Le Dran, Lafaye, and Richter. 3. Rupture of the neck of the sac and escape of the contents of the sac through the rupture into a cellular space out- side of the peritoneum. The rupture generally occurs at the back of the sac just below the neck. This form of reduction has been well described by Birkett. If fluid alone escapes while the bowel remains, an illusory appearance of reduction will be presented. If in incomplete " false " reduction the rupture is at the distal extremity of the sac and the discharge of fluid subcutaneous, it is impossible, of course, for bowel to escape. As a variety of this form may be mentioned the passage of the strangled in- testine through a cut made near the neck of the sac when a hernia knife had been introduced to divide the " stricture at the neck of the sac." Maydl has observed this accident. After the supposed division of the strangulating band, pressure is applied to the bowel, and reduction apparently occurs. The neck of the sac is, however, untouched, and the strangulation con- sequently persists. A very beautiful example of this kind is recorded by Farabocuf. This form also is rare. A fourth form of " reduction in mass " is de- scribed and figured by Roser and mentioned by Pick. It consists in the reduction " into the inguinal canal" of the bowel that has formerly occupied the scrotum. A wide dilatation of the canal is considered as permitting this partial reposition. I have not been able to discover a museum specimen of such a condition, nor have 1 found any unequivocal case in the literature of this suljject, though mention of the condition is made by several of the earlier writers on hernia. Chelius considered that in herniae of moderate or large size, when reduction was apparently complete, a small segment of gut, thick with inflammatory products and paretic, might lie inert in the canal and undergo a later, secondary strangulation. Reduction of the strangulated contents of a hernial sac into a second underlying sac in the scrotum has been recorded by Armand, Horn, Sandyfort, and Scarpa. It is possible that these second sacs are pulled down into the scrotum by guber- nacular bands, in the same manner as the sac of an infantile hernia. Demmeaux has suggested that whether the sac first present in the scrotum be congenital or acquired, the press of intestine on a weak and loosely supported neck may cause a diverticulum slowly to develop. Such pouch may be in front or behind, to the inner or outer side. If rupture of the neck of a femoral sac occurs the bowel may pass into the subperitoneal tissue. Callisen recorded in 1777 a case where, owing to rupture of the sac below the neck, the bowel had escaped and made for itself a lodg- ment between the pectineus and psoas muscles. These conditions may be represented in tabular form thus :— Complete False Reduction.—1. Reduction in- to a properitoneal sac; rarely an interstitial sac. 2. Reduction of the whole sac with contents within the abdomen, outside the peri- toneum, the mutual relations of sac and contents being undisturbed. 3. Rupture of the neck of the sac or its division during operation and extravasation of the hernial con- tents into the subperitoneal tissue. Incomplete False Reduction.—1. Rupture of the sac at the neck or elsewhere with escape of fluid only. The hernial swelling becomes considerably smaller, but the bowel remains strangled. 2. Reduction of part of the hernial contents. A small portion remaining in the canal, paralysed and stiff with inflammatory products, undergoes a " secondary " strangula- tion. If taxis prove ineffectual, operation must be resorted to. It is not possible to exaggerate the evils of delay, in cases of strangulation. There is nothing to be gained by delay, there is everything to be lost. Operation in itself is devoid of serious risk. Including all cases, the aged, infirm, or bronchitic, death would prob- ably not occur in more than 5 per cent if operation were adopted at the earliest moment in cases of inguinal and femoral hernia. The mortality after strangulated hernia is consider- ably greater than that. During the last fourteen years at the Leeds infirmary, since a statistical report has been published, the mortality has been, for strangulated inguinal hernia, 17-4 per cent, and for femoral hernia, 23-8 per cent. The difference between these and 5 per cent is the mortality of delay. During the same period the operation for the radical cure has had a mortality in inguinal hernia of 2'3 per cent, in femoral hernia of 1 per cent. If the last five years only are selected the mortality is in both cases less than 1 per cent. Treves gives the mortality of strangulated hernia as " over 30 per cent," Ross and Carless at "about 35 per cent." Now taxis, even if successful, so far as the reduction of the hernia is concerned, is not without its dangers. Bryant estimates the mortality after reduction by taxis in inguinal hernia 3'8 per cent, and in femoral hernia 10'5 per cent. It would probably be in