HOSPITALS 256 judiciously planted, may assist in moderating the intensity of winds. The site should be removed from works which cause smoke and effluvial nuisances. Accessi- bility by main roads to the district the hospital is to provide for, to the medical attendant, to shops, telegraph and telephone communication, posting establishment, must all be considered. The area needed varies; in infectious diseases hospitals, about an acre for twenty-five to thirty persons is necessary, for non-infectious hospitals much less is required, but the amount will entirely depend on disposition and arrangement of wards, etc. Construction.—This should be of such a nature as to ensure dryness of foundations, walls, and roof. The materials ordinarily used for walls are stone and brick, but concrete, corrugated iron, wood, are also used. Whatever material is used, the foundation should have a damp- proof course at a level of at least 3 inches above the ground. Brick walls should be hollow, built with an air space of about 3 inches. The inner surface of the walls to be covered with some impervious material such as Kean's cement, " Adamant" plaster; or glazed bricks may be used. Angles at the junction of ceiling with walls, of walls with floor, of end with side walls, should be rounded off. Cornices, moulding, etc., should be avoided, in brief, all receptacles for dust should be avoided. Floors should be made preferably of hard wood, oak or teak, or red pine, tongued and grooved, to be afterwards made impermeable by one or other of the carious compositions. The floor space per bed for infectious diseases hospitals is usually 144 feet with a wall space of 12 feet. The width of ward 25 to 26 feet, giving a total air space of 2000 cubic feet per bed for infectious diseases hospitals. For small- pox cases, 3000 cubic feet are required. ^ Ventilation under the floors should be pro- vided by openings in the walls at opposite sides. For the roof, slates laid on boarding and felt provide the necessary means for securing dry- ness and warmth. Rliones and down-spouts are necessary auxiliaries, and the roof-water may be, with advantage, collected in tanks for wash- ing purposes, at the same time simplifying the sewage purification problem. Water Supply.—This should be, wherever pos- sible, by gravitation, and the water must be abundant and of quality above suspicion. Where sufficient "head" cannot be got, air-motors, rams, water-wheels, turbines, etc., may be neces- sary to pump up the water from some sufficient source. At least 50 gallons per head are re- quired. Where the quality is not above sus- picion, a Pastcur-Chamberland filter should be in operation. Drainfif/e, Sewage Dispoml, and Purification. —In small comitry hospitals, earth closets might be used, thus simplifying both the question of sewage removal and treatment. For isolation hospitals, the Local Government Board do not favour this system. They should only be used where pressing difficulties of sewage removal occvir. Whether an earth-closet or water-closet is used, it must be cut off from the ward by a passage with cross ventilation. A wash-down closet with a three-gallon flush is to be preferred. Water-closet soil-pipes, sink and bath wastes, must be constructed on the most approved principles, but space does not permit of desirable details. Sewage, including water from baths and wash-house, must be puri- fied before it is discharged into any stream. The septic tank system ; Ducat's or Dibdin's are the most likely methods now in use. The methods of sewage treatment referred to depend on bacterial action. In the septic tank the sewage first undergoes anaerobic resolution, water, COg, CH^, and H^N being formed. The effluent is then run through coke beds, and nitrates are formed, where aerobic action occurs. In Ducat's system the beds, made of coke breeze, are freely aerated by drain pipes passing into their interior. The sewage is distributed over the top by a sprinkler. The beds in the latest development are covered over and warmed with hot-water pipes. The purification of sewage resulting is re- markable. Where earth, peat, or saw-dust closets are used, some form of incinerator will be necessary. It will also be useful for burning poultices, old dressings, sweepings from wards, etc. Ventilation, Warming, and Lighting. — For small hospitals ventilation is best secured by open fire-places and windows. There should be a window between every bed, and extending from 2 feet 6 inches from the floor to within one foot of the ceiling. One superficial foot of window for every 60 cubic feet of ward space is a fair allowance. The windows should be double sashed and double glazed. Sometimes a " Hopper " light, hung on hinges, is provided in addition. Open- ings at the floor level with radiator ventilators, so that the incoming air is heated, are usually provided. Outlets may be further pi'ovided by Boyle, Buchan's, or other ridge ventilators. One inch of outlet for every 60 cubic feet of room is a usual ratio allowed. Warming is provided best by open fire-places, supplemented as necessary by hot-water pipes either high or low (preferable) pressure, or by fire-clay stoves. Such are the general conditions to be attended to in all hospitals, whether for infectious or non-infectious diseases, to secure abundant light, pure air at a proper temperature, dryness of the building, and prompt removal of offensive matters.