250 HOMO CAUDATUS A great deal has been written and more has been rumoured about the existence of a tailed race of human beings. From the earliest times of Herodotus and Pliny and Ctesias, up to the most recent reports of modern African explorers, the credulous public has been asked to believe in the presence somewhere on the earth's surface of men with tails. Rimionr has been busy with reports as to the geographical location of this tailed race : now, on an old map, we find it in Tierra del Fuego, the abrupt and laconic legend being " homines caudati hie" ; again, it is in Polynesia (in New Britain), and the infants that are born without the caudal appendage are, so we are told, summai'ily killed ; again, it is near the sources of the Amazon ("cependant je laisse a chacun ajouter la foi qu'il voudra a ces faits," adds a critical reporter), or in Trebizond in Asiatic Turkey among the descendants of Con- stantino the Great ("d'ailleurs la puissance de Dieu est infinie; il fait tout ce qu'il lui plait, et cree, quand il le veut, des objets inconnus aux hommes"), or in Turkestan ("stinkendes Un- geziefer mit Schwanzen "), or in India in Rajpu- tana ("the long-tailed Ranas of Saurashtra"), or in China, or in Japan, or in Formosa, or in the Malay peninsula, and the islands of Borneo, Sumatra, and the Philippines ; but in Africa more perhaps than in any other part of the world have there been reiterated " travellers' tales about tails " (in Marocco, among the Niam- Niams of Central Africa, in Loango, in Bornu, etc.). Even in Europe, more especially in the west and south, there are legends, usually of considerable antiquity, of the occurrence of tailed peoples. Scotland and England are not without their records; and the people of Rochester ("ilia gens incredula") seem to have been most unfortunate, for by oiTending first St. Augustine {Golden Leejend, iii. 201, Temple Series) and later Thomas a Becket, their children were born with tails, as a mark, so the chroniclers say, of God's displeasure. The reader who may desire to know more concerning tliese quaint beliefs of the past will find what he wants in Bartels' classical papers {Arch. f. Anthrop., xiii. 1, 1881 ; XV. 4.5, 1884) and in "the many refer- ences which they contain. Some articles which have appeared in recent years and which may also be consulted are by Tirant {Bull. Soc. d'An- throp. de Lyon, i. 158, 1881-82 : ii. 157, 1883), J. Wilson {Ztschr. f. Ethnol, xii. 74, 1880), T. H. Parke {My Personal Experiences in Tropical Africa, p. 397, 1891), P. D'Enjoy {Anthropohqie, vii. 531, 1896), and Zaborowski {Bull. iSoc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, 4 s. viii. 28, 1897). Some parts of the evidence regarding the tailed races have been hearsay, and, therefore, outside the province of scientific inquiry ; and other parts of it have been founded upon observations upon tailed individuals made at such a distance as to leave the possibility that the caudal ap- pendages were of the nature of attached orna- ments and were not structurally united to the body. The tailed peoples have always shown a tendency to recede as the curious traveller or anthropologist advanced towards them, and when he reached his furthest point it was to find that the " homines caudati" were still three or four days' journey further on. There is no really reliable evidence of a tailed race of himian beings, although, as we shall see immediately, there are not a few records of individuals with tails or with caudal appendages resembling tails. " Homines caudati hie " cannot yet be written over any part of the world's surface ; but it is more than likely that in every country a tailed baby now and again makes its appearance, to cause loud wonder among the vulgar and sup- pressed scientific excitement among the learned. Let us look now at the individual or sporadic cases of caudal appendage which have been put on record at various times and in various places. Some of the older records contain in them a suggestion of the mythical, although the illustra- tions that accompany them are apparently most convincing. As a type of such ancient and dubious cases I may cite that reported by Krahe {Phil. Trans., xiv. 599, Oxford, 1684). It is entitled " The Description of a Monstrous Child, born Friday, the 29th of February 1684, at a village called Heisagger, distant about four English miles from Hattersleben, a Town in South Jutland, under the King of Denmark's Dominion, communicated by Mr. Christopher Krahe, a member of the Ecclesiastical Consistory and Provost of all the Churches belonging to the said Diocess." The record, then, is most cir- cumstantial, and the reader who doubts may find Hattersleben (or Hadersleben) on the map, in South Jutland, just as is affirmed. The mother of the child was wife of a soldier; the infant's legs looked as if they had been hacked, and there were swellings on them like bullets ; and a maternal impression is therefore indicated. " The face did look pretty old " ; and at the forehead there were excrescences, "as if it were artificial laces." " With the left eye it did look fiercely, keeping that other close." There were also malformations of the back of the head, of the left arm, and of the toes. The description of the tail (which is shown almost reaching the ground in the figui'e) is disappointingly short: "the Tail, which was strangely grown out of the back-part, was a quarter of a Sea- landish Ell long." The mother had two other sons, alive and well; "but this Monster, after it had cryed out 2 or 3 times, died pi-esently." The tail, long and thin, is represented as spring- ing from between the buttocks just above the anus. It is difficult to know what to make of this record ; but the most probable explanation is that an infant deformed in a way resembling the description given was actually born and died where and when it is stated ; and that the artist considerably lengthened the tail, and tried to