176 HEREDITY quarter, or each of them one-sixteenth; and so on, the sum of the series ^ + i + J + yV + ^^^-j being equal to 1, as it should be. It is a property of this infinite series that each term is equal to the sum of all those that follow, thus : i- = i + i + tV + etc.; i == i + tV + et^-, and so on. The prepotencies or subpotencies of particular ancestors, in any given pedigree, are eliminated by a law which deals only with averar/e contributions, and the varying pre- potencies of sex in respect to different qualities are presumably eliminated." This law of ancestral inheritance, which states that each parent contributes on an average one- quarter, each grandparent one-sixteenth, and so on, must not be accepted as a dogmatic conclusion, but as an approximate statistical formula, and it must be noted that it applies most convincingly to cases of blended (not exclusive) inheritance. Pearson's paper on the "Law of Reversion" (1900) should be read as a supplement to Galton's Natural Inheritance. In connection with the number of ancestors and the mosaic or multiple nature of inheritance, it may be useful to recall that intermarriages greatly reduce the theoretical number of an- cestors. Thus while Kaiser Wilhelm II. might have had 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048, 4096 ancestors in generations iv.-xii. respectively, he actually had 14, 24, 44, 74 in generations iv.-vii., and probably 116, 177, 256, 342, and 533 in generations viii.-xii. Reversion.—This term may be conveniently used to include cases where, through inheritance, an individual exhibits some character or char- acters not expressed in the parents, but known to occur in ancestors. The character, normal or abnormal, whose reappearance is called a rever- sion, may be found within the verifiable family, within the breed, within the species, or even in a presumed ancestral species. Karl Pearson defines a reversion as " the full appearance in an individual of a character which is recorded to have occurred in a definite ancestor of the same race," while atavism is " a return of an individual to a character not typical of the race at all, but foimd in allied races supposed to be related to the evolutionary ancestry of the given race." But as the two words have been used by some others in the converse way, or as equivalent, and as it seems only a distinction of degree, the single term reversion may here suffice. Good illustrations of reversion ai'e furnished by hybrids. Thus, in one of Ewart's experi- ments a pure white fantail cock-pigeon, of old- established breed, which in colour had proved itself prepotent over a blue pouter, was mated with a cross previously made between an owl and an ai'ciiangel, which was far more of an owl than an archangel. The result was a couple of fantail-owl-archangel ci'osses — one resembling the Shetland rock-pigeon, and the other the l)lue rock oF India. Not only in colour, but in shape, attitude, and movements there was an almost complete reversion to the form which is believed to be ancestral to all the domestic pigeons. The only marked difference was a slight arching of the tail, which was, however, 12-feathered as usual, in contrast to the 30- feathered one in the fantail. But great care is necessary in arguing from the results of hybridisation to those of ordinary mating, and even if some of the phenomena of exclusive inheritance seem to demonstrate rever- sion to a near ancestor, we need a broader basis of facts than we have at present before we can generalise. Karl Pearson (1900) has recently sought to formulate a general law of reversion supplementary to Galton's law of ancestral inheritance. Many phenomena have been labelled rever- sions on the flimsiest evidence. Thus the occurrence of a Cyclopean human monster with a median eye has been called a reversion to the ascidian, and gout has been called a reversion to the reptilian condition of liver and kidneys. Often there is not the slightest attempt to eliminate the phenomena of arrested develop- ment or of abnormalities induced from without. Often, too, there has been no scruple in naming or even inventing the ancestor, to whom the reversion is supposed to point, although definite evidence of the pedigree is awanting ; and the vicious circle is not unknown of arguing to the supposed ancestor from the supposed reversion, and then justifying the term reversion from its resemblance to the siipposed ancestor. Little allowance has been made for coincidence, and the postulate of characters remaining latent for millions of years is made as glibly as if it were just as conceivable as a throwback to a great- grandfather. Reversion is a phenomenon of exclusive in- heritance, and the theoretical conception which it implies is that characters may be latent for a generation or for generations, or, in other words, that certain potentialities or initiatives which form part of the heritage may remain unexpressed for lack of the ayipropriate liberating stimulus, or for other reasons, or may have their normal expression disguised. There does not seem to be anything in this conception which is at variance with more securely established general- isations. But the danger is in applying the interpretation. Even when an individual ex- hibits the reappearance of an ancestral character which was not in his parents, this is not neces- sarily due to the reassertion of latent elements in the inheritance. It may be a case of ordinary regression ; it may be a case of arrested develop- ment ; it may be an individually acquired modification adventitiously induced, apart from inheritance, by a recm-rence of suitable condi- tions of function or envii-onnient; it may be an extreme variation whose resemblance to an ancestral characteristic is a coincidence ; and so