316 HYSTERIA varieties of tremors. Dutil has described several leading types: 1st, A type of rapid oscillations (eight to ten shocks per second), slight but continuous, suggesting alcoholic tremors, and the movements in Basedow's disease (exophthalmic goitre). Sometimes these tremors are associated with other symptoms of exophthalmic goitre, and the two diseases may simulate each other. 2rid, A type with a mean rhythm (5| to 7| shocks per second), allied to mercurial quiverings and those of disseminated cerebro-spinal sclerosis ; this trembling when it attacks the lower limbs simulates epileptoid tremors. 3rd, Slow tremors with severer shocks (4 to 5|- shocks per second), resembling the trembling of paralysis agitans. The saltatory spasm was closely studied by Brissaud, and consists in a series of successive contractures of the extremities with bending of the legs and thighs, following some excitement, slight shock, or agitation. The patient leaps in an odd way when he walks, as if he trod on hot cinders; the muscular force is intact. This spasm is generally bilateral ; if the patient is in bed, a slight irritation, percussion of the tendons, or twisting of the foot over the leg, may provoke this spasm. This dancing spasm may be compared to the paramyoclonus multiplex and electric chorea, as both are in the list of hysterical accidents. Astasia-abasia may be defined as the sup- pression or disorganisation of the co-ordinated movements concerned in walking or standing upright. As may be inferred from this definition, it usually affects the lower limbs, and is rare in the upper limbs, where it betrays its existence in difficulties in writing or drawing. The features are very peculiar. The patient can leap, run, or hop, though he cannot walk or stand upright. Abasia may exist alone. There are two forms of astasia-abasia: the one paralytic, in which walking and standing upright is impossible, for the legs give way under the patient; the other ataxic, in which the symptoms only appear when the patient wishes to walk and stand upright. Astasia-abasia has a tendency to return. Disorders of the Respiratory Organs Dyspnoea is frequent in hysteria, and manifests itself under the influence of emotion or without any apparent cause. Its aspect is variable, it is sometimes due to a spasm of the glottis, some- times to difficulty of breathing arising from paralysis or contracture of the diaphragm, more frequently to tachypncea (from 170 to 180 respirations per minute) without uneasiness or acceleration of the pulse. The hysterical cough may accompany dyspnoBa, or may be an isolated symptom. In not a few instances these symptoms have led to an erroneous diagnosis of tuberculosis. This cough has marked peculiarities; it is rasping, resonant, without expectoration, rarely permanent, and habitually paroxysmal. The fits may be isolated or grouped, and follow always the same rhythm, from 3 to 4 shocks; it is rhythmical, a true equivalent of the hysterical attack, and ac- companied by similar phenomena. It is tenacious and fierce, and has special variations of sound, often resembling a dog barking, a wolf howling, a hen cackling, or a dove cooing. These phenomena of laryngeal spasm occur in epidemic form in convents, schools, etc. With these spasms of expiration there may be spasms of inspiration, fits of yawning, sneezing, and uncontrollable laughter. The disorders of phonation are many and various. In the first rank comes hysterical aphonia, which develops suddenly, and is a veritable pure motor aphasia, without mental impairment; it may sometimes be accompanied by deafness and even agraphia. This disorder has a central origin, and is unconnected with any lesion of the muscles of the tongue and lips. It may last a long time, even years. The hysterical stammering which precedes or follows the aphonia results from veritable polysyllabic aphasia, and can, in many instances, be traced to spasms or contractures. In aphonia the patient can only speak in a low voice or whisper, but articulates well. It often happens, when loud speaking is impossible, that the cough is sonorous and singing is possible, and it should be noted these patients can talk in their sleep. There is contracture or paralysis of the vocal cords. Phonophohia is less common, and consists in a fear of speaking too loud. In this condition the patient can only whisper, and any louder speech brings on an attack of pain in the larynx. Disorders of the Digestive Organs Gastric hysteria is important, and is frequently the forerunner of other visceral manifestations. Dysphagia is the most frequent phenomenon, and is due to spasm of the pharynx and a3sophagus. Contracture of the oesophagus betrays itself by the food being returned immediately after ingestion. The initial stage of dysphagia is curious, as certain solid foods pass easily, although liquids are rejected. Bouveret describes a strange case, in which the patient had clonic spasms of the muscles of the pharynx repeated 30 or 40 times a minute—a condition which he regarded as hysterical dysphagia. Hysterical vomitings often result from con- tracture of the stomach. They begin im- mediately after the ingestion of food, and are more or less continuous, often painless, and followed by anorexia. Hysterical gastralgia is caused by an hystero- genic zone in the stomach or gastric region. The reception of food causes violent pain, often I in paroxysms, accompanied by palpitation,