HYPNOTISM 305 influence, because other ideas, which ought to have controlled them, did not arise, as the por- tion of the brain, with which the latter were associated, had its action temporarily suspended, i.e. the connection between the ganglion cells was broken, owing to the interrupted action of the fibres of association. Later, Braid believed that volition was un- changed in hypnosis, the moral sense increased, and suggested crime impossible. He observed that several phenomena could be evoked simul- taneously, and without the subject having passed through any condition resembling sleep. Verbal suggestion excited, but did not explain, the phenomena; the healthy were the easiest to influence, and the condition, as a whole, could only be accounted for by the intelligent action of a secondary consciousness. (c) The Salpetriere Thewy. — This, in all essential points, reproduces that of the mes- merists. The old fallacies as to metals, magnets, drugs in sealed tubes, etc., are revived; the subjects, however, instead of being termed " sensitives," are called " hysterical." {d) Theories of the Nancy School.—Bernheim reproduces the mental side of Bennett's theory, and ascribes the phenomena to a psychological inhibition. In addition to adopting Braid's dis- carded view, Bernheim reproduces some mes- meric errors, and adds others of his own. He believes in rapport, the possibility of suggesting crime, and the practical identity of hypnosis with normal waking and sleeping life. There is, he says, no special state deserving the name of hypnosis, suggestion is everything. In some recent theories, claiming originality, the physiological half of Bennett's masquerades in modern terminology. Thus, instead of "association fibres" we have "neurons" and "neuronic groups"; "dendrons" contract and break the contact between nerve cells, while a supposed decrease in cerebral activity is ex- plained by an " inhibition of the amoeboid movements in the pseudopodic protoplasmic prolongations of the neuro-spongium." (e) The Subliminal or Secondary Consciousness Theory.—This theory presupposes an intelligent secondary consciousness, and explains the pheno- mena of hypnotism by the arousing of powers over which we normally have little or no control, instead of by the arrested action of some of the brain centres which subserve normal life. As William James points out, the principle on which it depends is largely admitted by science, and it gives, what no other theory does, a con- venient working hypothesis. The characteristic phenomena of hypnosis show increased, not diminished, mental power. Cerebral inhibi- tions, no matter how involuntary or incomplete, do not explain improvements in memory, arith- metic, and appreciation of time, and the sub- liminal consciousness theory marks an important advance towards solving these problems. VOL IV. Hypo-.— In compound words hypo- (Gr. vKo, under) has the significance of defective, and is opposed to hyper. Hypoag^nathUS. — The teratological type in which there is absence of the lower jaw (often in association with cyclopia); agnathus. HypoalbuminOSiS. — Deficiency in the albumin of the blood. Hypoazoturia. — Deficiency in the amount of nitrogen in the urine. Hypoblast.—The innermost of the three layers of the blastoderm; the entoderm See Embryology; Foetus and Ovum, Development OF; etc. Hypobulia.—Morbid weakness in exercis- ing the will; it is opposed to hyperbulia (q.v.). HypOCatharsiS.—A slight degree of purging. Hypocaustum. See Balneology (His- torical). Hypochlorhydria. — Deficiency of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice. Hypochondriac Reg^ion. See Ab- dominal Tumours, Diagnosis of ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Physical Examination, Abdomen). Hypochondriasis. See Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of {Resemblance to Hypo- chondriasis) ; Prostate Gland {Chronic Pros- tatitis, Sexiial Hypochondriasis in); Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomato- logy, Nervous, Hypochondriasis); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Reasons for sending Patients Abroad); Urethra, Diseases of {Stricture, Symptoms). HypoclysiS.—The administration of an enema or clyster (Gr. vttokXv^w, to wash from below). Hypodermic.—Subcutaneous, especially in relation to the administration of drugs. See Aseptic Treatjient {Disinfectioti of Hypodermic Syringes and Solutions); Pleura, Diseases op {Pleurisy, Differential Diagnosis) ; Syphilis {Treatment, Hypodermic Injection of Mercury). HypodermOClysiS.—The injection of serums or of saline solution (usually in con- siderable amount) into the subcutaneous tissue. Hypoepinephry. — A syndrome in which there is functional insufficiency of the adrenal glands; there are asthenia, arterial hypotension, peripheral vaso-motor disturbances, and various nervous and digestive troubles; sudden death is not imcommon ; it is to be distinguished from Addison's disease, in which there is melanoderma. 20