HYPOGASTRIC REGION 306 Hypogastric Region. >See Ab- dominal Tumours, Diagnosis of ; GyNyEcoLOGY, Diagnosis in {Physical Examination, Abdomen). HypOgastrOSCtlisiS. — The terato- logical type in which there is defect of the anterior abdominal wall in the hypogastric region, with protrusion of the viscera. HypOgeusia.—Defective sense of taste ; is opposed to hypergeusia. Hypoglossal Nerve, The. Origin, Cause, and Distribution . . 306 Lesions of .... . . 306 See also Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Tumour, Symptomatology); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Affections of Cranial Nerves). The hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve is the homologue of the anterior root of a spinal nerve. It is interesting to note that in some animals the twelfth nerve possesses a posterior root furnished with a ganglion like a spinal nerve. A similar condition has been met with in a few instances in man (Quain). The nerve arises from a nucleus which is the direct continuation in the medulla of the multi- polar cell columns of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. This nucleus, which lies close to the middle line, in its lower part is situated anterior and external to the central canal. Higher up it comes to lie on the floor of the fourth ventricle, internal to the nuclei of the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus and spinal accessory (see vol. i. p. 472). The nerve fibres leave the nucleus in successive bundles, which run ob- liquely forwards through the substance of the medulla. They lie external to the fillet and pyramid, and eventually appear in the groove between the pyramid and olive, on the anterior surface of the medulla. Ten to twelve of these bundles unite to form the hypoglossal trunk which passes through the anterior condyloid foramen. After leaving the cranium the nerve descends almost vertically to the lower border of the digastric muscle, lying between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein. It is then directed forwards above the hyoid bone, and passes beneath the digastric, the lower end of the stylo-hyoid and the mylo-hyoid muscles, while it rests upon the hyoglossus. Finally, by piercing the genio-glossus muscle it reaches the tongue, to which its terminal branches are distributed. The hypoglossal, which is purely a motor nerve, has, according to Quain, the following distribution : " The hypoglossal nerve proper supplies only the muscles of the tongue, with the exception of the palato-glossus and the pharyngeo-glossus. Fibres derived from the first three cervical nerves, which are associated with the hypoglossal for a part of their course, are distributed to the infrahyoid muscles and the genio-hyoid, others of uncertain origin pass to the skull and dura mater and to the internal jugular vein. The hypoglossal forms connec- tions with the pneumogastric, lingual, upper three cervical nerves, and sympathetic." The hypoglossal nerve is the motor nerve of the tongue, of the depressors of the hyoid bone, and of some of the elevators. Since the nerve is in great part distributed to the tongue, it is in that organ that the more important effects of lesions of the nerve are to be looked for. When one hypoglossal nerve is paralysed the tongue, when protruded, deviates to the paralysed side. If there is complete bilateral paralysis, the tongue lies on the floor of the mouth and protrusion is impossible. Articulation, mas- tication, and to some extent deglutition, are interfered with when the tongue is completely paralysed. On the contrary, if the lesion be unilateral there may be little or no impairment of these functions. If a lesion involves the nerve or its nucleus, the tongue wastes and the mucous membrane forms characteristic furrows on its surface, while corresponding diminution occurs in its electrical excitability. Under these circumstances fibrillary tremors are fre- quently to be seen in the wasted muscle. When the supranuclear portion of the nerve is the seat of the lesion these changes do not occur. The upper hypoglossal neurons, the nucleus, or the nerve in any part of its course, may be damaged by disease. Outside the cranium the nerve may be implicated in a new gi'owth. Occasionally it is divided in an attempt to commit suicide. A neuritis of the hypoglossal nerve is of very rare occurrence, possibly be- cause the nerve lies deeply and is not exposed. A few cases of supposed rheumatic neuritis have been recorded. In its course within the skidl the nerve may be involved by meningitis, tubercular and syphilitic growths, disease of the bone, or neoplasms. Paralysis of one-half of the tongue alone rarely results from a lesion in this situation; other nerves are almost always in- volved. Within the medulla the nuclei or nerve fibres may be damaged by a tumour, hnemor- rhage, local inflammation or softening, when the resulting paralysis is usually bilateral. Degenerative lesions affecting the hypoglossal together with adjacent motor nuclei occur in bulbar palsy. The comparatively frequent association of hsemiatrophy of the tongue with paralysis of the palate and vocal cord on the same side in central lesions suggests a common origin for the motor supply of these structures. Weakness of the orbicularis oris is often associated with paralysis of the tongue. In hemiplegia uni- lateral paralysis of the tongue is common; in pseudo-bulbar paralysis, a bilateral palsy more