INFECTIOISr 413 the holidays, parents or guardians must refer to this list of Rules, and if the case come within their scope must comnumicate with the head- master. 4. If a pupil take an infectious complaint, or has been in any way exposed to infection during the term, notice must at once be sent by the parents or guardians to the headmaster. 5. With regard to Rule 2, no pupil will be allowed to enter or return to school without the certificate signed by parent or guardian. In the case of a pupil who comes under Rule 3 or 4, he will not be allowed to enter or return to school without a printed form, signed by a doctor; to the effect that the said Rules have been complied with. 6. Periods of absence for pupils who have been suffering from any of the above diseases :— Whooping-Cough.—Six weeks from the com- mencement of the whooping, provided the char- acteristic spasmodic cough and the whooping have ceased. Diphtheria.—In not less than three weeks, when convalescence is completed,—there being no longer any form of sore throat, nor any kind of discharge from the throat, nose, eyes, etc., and no albuminuria. Measles.—In not less than three weeks from the appearance of the rash, if all desquamation and cough have ceased. Scarlet Fever.—In not less than six weeks from the appearance of the rash, if desquama- tion have completely ceased, and if there be no discharge from the nose, ears, glands, or any suppurating sore. German Measles.—In not less than two weeks from the appearance of the rash. Small-pox.—One week after the crusts have all separated. Typhus Fever.—When convalescence is com- plete, five weeks. Typhoid Fever.—In not less than six weeks from the commencement of the disease, or of a relapse, if such occur. Chicken-pox.—One week after the crusts have all separated. Mumps.—^Three weeks from the beginning of the swelling, if all complications have subsided. Ringworm.—(«) Of Body—One week after the disappearance of the characteristic eruption. (6) Of Scalp—One month after the pupil has been certified by a medical man to be apparently free of the disease. The pupil must also be re-examined within two days of return to school, and bring with him a certificate that he is still free of the disease. In addition to these various periods the patient must in all cases be thoroughly disin- fected {see vol. ii. p. 411). 7. In the case of a pupil being exposed to infection, the following quarantine times may be considered safe if thorough disinfection be carried out:— Whooping-Cough Diphtheria Measles . Scarlet Fever . German Measles Small-pox Typhus Fever Typhoid Fever Chicken-pox . Mumps . 21 days' quarantine. 10 „ 16 „ 10 „ 21 „ 18 „ 21 „ 21 „ 20 „ 26 „ Ringworm :—(a) A pupil who has been casually exposed to the infection of ringworm must be kept at home and carefully examined daily for ten days before being sent to school. Should any suspicious spot appear during this time medical advice must be taken before his return, (b) No pupil shall attend school from a house in which there is a case of ringworm of the scalp within a fortnight of the detection of the disease, and then can only attend if he brings with him a medical certificate that he is free from ring-worm himself, and that he has been scrupulously isolated during this time from the case under treatment. JV.H.—As the risk of infection in this variety of ringworm is much less in the case of older pupils (say over 15), special exceptions may be made in their case on communication with the headmaster or headmistress. 8. The fact of a pupil's having had any of the above diseases does not exempt from the above periods of quarantine, except in cases of whooping-cough, German measles, chicken-pox, or mumps, in which cases a pupil may enter or return to school after one day's quarantine. 9. No pupil shall enter or return to school from a house in which there has been any person suffering or convalescent from any of the above infectious diseases, until such house has been thoroughly disinfected to the satisfaction of the medical man in attendance; and it must be borne in mind that the quarantine must date from the time that such disinfection was com- pleted. 10. No article of any kind which has been worn or used by any person suffering from in- fectious disease, or has been in contact with any such patient or his attendant, shall be brought to school, unless it has been dealt with in accordance with the suggestions for disinfection given (q-v.). Note.—Influenza must be considered an in- fectious disease, but as yet no definite rules regarding the length of quarantine and of the infective period are formulated. Meanwhile it is recommended that any pupil who has had influenza should be thoroughly convalescent before returning to school; and that pxipils from a house in which there is a case of influenza should be isolated from the patient, and should be kept at home if they show the slightest sign of illness.