289 HYPERTROPHY limited in extent, but greater in degree. Thus we may have hypertrophy of a hand associated with giant growth and deformity of a finger, with syndactylus, or with tumour growth, usually either lipomatous, or of the nature of an enchondroma. Again, the hypertrophy may lead to ankylosis of the joints, or it may be com- bined with elephantiasis of the limb. These so-called false hypertrophies also differ from the preceding in not being invariably imilateral, congenital, and stationary ; sometimes both feet, or a foot and hand on opposite sides, are affected ; the hypertrophy may not develop until child- hood or adolescence, it may progress with varying rapidity, with periods of quiescence. Sometimes amputation of a giant finger has been followed by overgrowth of the arm. In fact, false hyper- trophies are more closely allied to tumour growth than those just described, and are commonly associated with some other developmental ano- maly. Still, the two conditions must not be too sharply differentiated ; in true hypertrophy we not infrequently find that one or two fingers or toes have not the same proportionate develop- ment as the rest; they may be unduly large or of natural size. In such a case the correspond- ing digits of the opposite side are sometimes also abnormal. Greig has proposed an anatomical classifi- cation of cases of unilateral hypertrophy. He divides cases into those where the affection is limited to the head and face, and those where it is not so limited. Each group is further sub- divided into cases in which the bones only are involved, soft parts only involved, and both bones and soft parts involved. Unilateral hyper- trophy limited to the head and face deserves some further notice, and although it is not always congenital may be most fittingly con- sidered here. Unilateral hyperostosis, or hemihypertrophy limited to the bones of the face, must not be confounded with leontiasis ossea. Greig found that the age of onset varied from three to thirty- five years, the average being fourteen. Four out of fourteen cases collected by him were mentally defective, one was epileptic, and in one there was strabismus. The hyperostosis is sometimes accurately limited to the region sup- plied by the trigeminal. Hemihypertrophy limited to the soft parts, as well as that in which both soft parts and bones are involved, is usually congenital. In such cases the cheeks and lips are often the places most affected, and the teeth and hair may participate in the over- growth. It might be supposed that the distinction between hemihypertrophy and hemiatrophy would not always be easy, but in practice this difficulty does not arise, the hypertrophied side always appearing so abnormally large as to pre- vent the possibility of error. It is said, how- ever, that hemihypertrophy is sometimes asso- VOL. IV ciated with hemiatrophy of the opposite side. Hemihypertrophy must not be confused with the slight degree of asymmetry which is so commonly seen in normal individuals. The pathological changes in these cases are little known ; there seems, however, to be both true hypertrophy and hyperplasia, mainly of the connective-tissue elements. No abnormality of the vascular or nervous systems, except thicken- ing of the arterial walls, has been described. The viscera are normal. The causes of the con- dition are unknown. Males are more frequently affected than females, and the right side more often than the left. There does not appear to be any hereditary tendency to this, or indeed to any other congenital deformity, in the families of those affected. It seems most likely that it is due to a developmental error in the middle lamina of the blastodermic membrane, but tlie following theories have also been advanced :-— (1) Congenital lesion of the vaso-motor centres, with venous stasis. (2) Partial intra-uterine strangulation of the affected limbs. (3) Con- genital defects in the lymphatic system. (4) Fusion of twins. (5) Nervous influences. The distribution of hyperostosis of the face and cranium over the area supplied by the fifth nerve has been alluded to. Greig, considering the comparative frequency with which mental defects are associated with facial hemihyper- trophy, especially where the bones alone are involved, believes that the condition is due to an intra-uterine meningitis or cerebritis, which irritates the nerves while their function is yet entirely trophic. He would explain all forms of hemihypertrophy on this hypothesis. 5. Giantism.—As is the case in the opposite condition—dwarfism—the nature and causes of giantism are obscure, and its various forms are not well known. Much of the writing on the subject dates from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and, however great its antiquarian interest, is of little scientific value. Probably the largest authentic giants are Frederick the Great's Scottish giant (8 ft. 5 in.), the Irish giant, whose skeleton measures 8 ft. 6 in., and the " Elsasser Bauer," who lacked only half an inch of being nine feet. The often- recurring accounts of men whose stature was ten, twelve, or even fifteen feet must be rele- gated to the domain of myth. Of late years, and especially since the recog- nition of acromegaly as a well-defined disease, which is not infrequently associated with giant- ism, renewed attention has been directed to the subject. Giantism may be congenital, or it may occur during youth or adult life. Congenital giants are rare, but every now and then children weighing fifteen to twenty pounds come into the world. In such cases the growth during the first year or two is often rapid, and a precocious puberty is reached at five or six years. Thereafter there is premature ageing, 19