390 INFANT FEEDING should actually double its weight in five months and treble it in twelve is evidence of the marvel- lous activity of tissue growth at this period. To supply material sufficiently rapidly, not merely to compensate for the waste which accompanies metabolism, but also to serve for the building of the growing structure, it is necessary to feed much more frequently than in later life, and to give the food in such a form that it shall be capable of ready absorption and assimilation. The most perfect fulfilment of these requirements is seen in the mother's milk, with its finely divided curd, so easily acted upon by the gastric juice, its comparatively large pro- portion of soluble proteid, and still larger pro- portion of soluble carbohydrate. The importance of a large proportion of fat in the diet corresponds to the vital necessity for warmth at this age. To supply this warmth the infant requires a considerably larger proportion of hydrocarbon, the heat-producing element in the food, than adults do. Physiological obser- vations have shown that while for an adult the proportion of fat to proteid required is about 1 to 3, for infants it is nearly 2 to 1. But the need of warmth is certainly not the only reason why more fat is required for infants than for adults. It would seem that fat, taken as such in the food, plays an important part, directly or indirectly, in the growth of the tissues; in par- ticular there is strong evidence to show that if the food be deficient in fat the growing bone is very apt to show rickety deformities. Human Milk The only food which fulfils all the require- ments of early infancy is human milk, and the nearer any other food approximates in its character to human milk the more suitable it is for the feeding of infants. Human milk is an opaque, yellowish-white fluid, with an average specific gravity of 1030- 1032 (the writer found variations from 1027 to 1034). It is neutral or faintly alkaline in re- action. Its taste is sweet. It is usually sterile, but recent investigation has shown that this is not always so, the staphylococcus aureus and albus are sometimes found in it, and it seems probable that these and other bacteria may find their way into the ducts from the outside. Microscopic examination shows that the milk consists of two parts: (i.) A colourless,plasma, which contains proteids and salts in solution; (ii.) Globules of fat suspended in the plasma. The proteids found dissolved in the plasma are chiefly of two kinds: (1) Casein, or more accu- rately speaking, caseinogen, which is precipitated by acids, and also by a special ferment, rennet, hi the gastric juice; (2) Lactalbumen, which is not precipitated either hy acids or by rennet, but is coagulated by boiling. The fat globules in Inmian milk measure from to ^TiViju ii^ch in diameter. Many analyses of human milk have been made with widely-varying results. The practi- cal difficulty is great, for unless the whole con- tents of the breast are used no strictly accurate result can be obtained, and it is not easy to secure the whole of the milk. The discrepancies between various observations are no doubt due partly to this fact, for the composition of the milk varies according to the part taken for examination. The milk may be divided into three portions, the fore-milk, the middle-milk, and the after-milk or strippings. An examina- tion of the fat alone will show how widely these may differ in composition. In a specimen of fore-milk the writer found 1"4 per cent of fat, in one of after-milk 10 per cent of fat; in one case the fore-milk showed only "4 per cent of fat, while the middle-milk showed 3-2 per cent. The proportion of proteid, similarly, is found to increase gradually, being lowest in the fore-milk and highest in the after-milk. It is obvious, therefore, that to obtain the average proportions of the various constituents a mixed sample of the whole contents of the breast should be taken. In practice this is seldom possible, and the next best course is to use only the middle-milk, from which presumably a fair average estimate can be obtained. A convenient method is to inquire how long the infant usually takes to empty the breast, and then to direct that it shall be put to the breast for one-third of this time, usually about five minutes, after which the specimen of milk, which should not be less than one ounce, is drawn off for analysis. The average composition of human milk, calculated from various published analyses, may be stated as follows :— Proteids P^r cent. Variations. Lactalbumen, 1"4 }^ ' ' 2 0 (1 4 8) Fat 3-5 (2-4-4-2) Lactose 7-0 (5-8-7-4) Salts -2 (•1--37) Water 87-3 (86 7-88-5) Colostrum. — During the first two or three days after parturition, before the flow of milk is established, the mother's breast yields a fluid, colostrum, which has a somewhat different com- position. It contains less fat and sugar, but a larger proportion of proteid. Microscopically, also, it shows certain large, round, or ovoid granular bodies, the " colostrum corpuscles," which are three or four times as large as the fat globules in later milk. In addition to its food- value the colostrum has been thought to have some laxative effect; this is certainly not due to excess of fat; in ten samples examined by the writer the average percentage of fat was 2*4, and some contained only I'O or 1-2 per cent. The curd formed with an acid was in some of these cases much firmer and larger than is usually found in ordinary human milk.