INFLUENZA 436 disease. While it is true that serious mental disease, temporary or permanent, may supervene on any acute specific intoxication, such as typhus, small-pox, or enteric fever, yet influenza easily takes first place as a predisponent to psychosis. Nor is it only in those who are by heredity or by constitution predisposed to mental infirmity that influenza plays havoc with the mind. Dr. Julius Althaus examined the question of pre- disposition with great care, and found that there was a congenital or acquired neurotic tendency in 62'8 per cent of the cases of post-influenzal psychosis, but no such tendency in 37-2 per cent of such cases. Kirn divides influenzal psychoses into febrile and post-febrile, according as they declare themselves during the fever or after it has run its course. Delirium, attended by motor excitement, hallucinations, and sensory illusions, is the form which the febrile variety usually takes. States of mental exaltation and of de- pression follow each other in quick succession. There is insomnia. Recovery usually occurs, but the patient's memory may be a blank so far as his illness is concerned. The post-febrile psychoses, according to Kirn, are—acute mania, coming on immediately after the fever; melan- cholia and depression, appearing within a few days to a few weeks after influenza; and general paralysis, coming on as late as six months after the attack. In addition to these graver diseases of the mind, we must note the not infrequent occur- rence of either hysteria or hypochondriasis in the later stages of influenza. The following are extracts from a letter written by a victim of influenza in January 1900. The patient was a gentleman, aged about twenty-seven, who subse- quently regained his usual excellent health. He writes :— " As I am quite satisfied that the complaint I have (and many others) is something quite new in this country, I thought you would not mind my writing to let you know how matters stand with me. ... I had a fair night's sleep—one or two ' heats and colds.' The next day I was not so well, and on Wednesday morning I went to Greenore Hotel. I walked on the shore after lunch, and had a very light dinner—fish and chicken. Having had some champagne at 4.30 P.M. I drank nothing at dinner, but took about a wineglassful of whisky pinicli at 10 o'clock. I slept the night through without any apparent changes of temperature, and felt as well as ever I did in the morning, when like a fool I took a tepid bath. This, I think, gave me a chill again, as, though I felt well all the morning and walked on the shore, I felt very dull towards evening. During the next night but one I was very dull and cold—nothing seemed able to warm me, and I got a bad attack of 'shivers.' By the way, when at Greenore, a young friend of mine was wheeled into the coftee-room of the hotel with all power of his legs gone, and he has had just the same symptoms as myself. ... I need hardly say what a shock this gave me. . . . Some of the doctors looking after this case I mention told him to go out as much as possible ; others told him to stay in—anyhow, the poor chap can keep no food in his inside, and cold is no name for him, though now and then he says he feels hot! This fever seems to me more like what fellows tell me they get at places on the West Coast of Africa—such as Bonny, Cape Coast Castle, and Lagos—for as far as I am concerned I have no sign of ' a cold' whatever. ... If I am any way better to-morrow (Saturday) I will go home, as I am a bother here at night when I can't keep warm, even with a roaring fire. I hope you will not think this letter a great bother to read, but, as I said, 1 think these cases are new and interesting. Young M. of is another case just the same—a strong, hardy chap, and run down to nothing without any cold, and nothing to bother him in the world. . . . The only thing I am taking- no w are ' Carrara pills,' to keep me clear. Some of the cases seem to be taken the other way. My appetite is excellent, and especially for breakfast, for which I take porridge, boiled eggs (2), milk, and about a quarter of a cup of tea." This letter illustrates very well the intensely subjective or self-conscious mental state of the convalescent from influenza. In a case recently under observation, a strong young fellow of twenty-two stated that he had never been well since an attack of influenza five months pre- viously. His heart thumped at night, and flushes of heat would pass from time to time up his legs and thighs, finally aff'ecting his head and face, and causing his temporal arteries to throb. These vaso-motor phenomena are very common, and cause infinite distress of mind as well as body. Pathology and Anatomical Appearances There is little that is distinctive or charac- teristic in the morbid anatomy of influenza. The disease kills through its complications and sequelae, not by its primary effect on the tissues and organs. Hence the pathological appearances belong in a great measure to the secondary affec- tions. Pneumonic consolidations in the lungs, which are often lobular rather than lobar; lesions of the pleura, of the bronchial tubes, of the mj'ocardium, — all these are met with in many cases. But in the merely partial de- velopment of a specific pathology influenza closely resembles typhus fever. The chief feature is a widespread hyperajmia and catar- rhal swelling of the mucous membranes lining the respiratory passages from the Schneiderian membrane to the bronchioles. Similar changes, though less marked and of less frequent occur- rence, are observed in connection with the stomach and intestines.