HEMORRHAGE 45 in mind, however, that in patients who are deeply ansesthetised or suffering from partial asphyxia the blood escaping from a wounded artery may be dark-coloured. 2. Venous haemorrhage is characterised by the dark colour of the blood and by its flowing in a continuous stream, due to the absence in the veins of the impulse of the heart-beat. In general the walls of the vein collapse. 3. Capillary haemorrhage is characterised by the oozing of blood from several points of the wounded surface. The amount of blood lost at each bleeding point is but small, and it is only rarely when this variety of hsemorrhage persists for several hours that the amount of blood lost is sufficiently considerable to place life in danger. Owing to the fact that the capillaries in the mucous membranes are larger and more abund- ant than those of the skin, htemorrhages from the former are apt to be more troublesome than from cutaneous wounds. 4. Parenchymatous hsemorrhage is chiefly char- acterised by its occurrence in parts or organs which present structural peculiarities, for ex- ample in erectile tissue, where little arteries open directly into veins without the intermedia- tion of capillaries, as in the erectile tissue of the genitalia and in the spleen. It is also to be observed in parts whose normal vascular condition is altered, particularly by thrombosis and malignant infiltration. A. Primary hsemorrhage occurs immediately upon receipt of the injury to the vessel. It may, of course, present the characteristics of any of the above-described anatomical varieties of haemorrhage. B. Reactionary, intermediary, or consecutive haemorrhage occurs after the establishment of the period of reaction, i.e. usually within the first twenty-four hours after the receipt of an injury or after a surgical operation. It is due generally either to the slipping of a ligature or to the increasing blood-pressure forcing out of the injured vessels the coagula which plug their divided ends. C. Secondary haemorrhage occurs after the expiration of at least twenty-four hours from the time of the injury. It is most frequently observed from the sixth to the fifteenth day. It usually occurs in a suppurating wound, and is caused by ulceration of the walls of the vessel, the result of a septic arteritis ; very rarely is it due in an aseptic wound to the too rapid absorp- tion of a catgut ligature or to incomplete repair in the injured artery. Secondary haemorrhage, in olden days a frequent and very serious occur- rence, has now, thanks to surgical cleanliness, become a rare wound complication. Constitutional Symptoms of Haemorrhage. —A patient suffering from severe hsemorrhage presents the following appearance. He is pallid, cold, and yet beads of perspiration abound, the lips are blanched, but show a faint lividity, the pulse feeble, quick, and small, and perceptible only perhaps in the large arteries. The breath- ing is irregular and quickened, the alae nasi dilate,. and complaint is made of shortness of breath, the temperature is below normal, con- vulsive movements, marked restlessness, and vomiting may occur. There are generally ab- normal sensations of sight and hearing, as flashes of light, a somid as of rushing water, or buzzing in the ears, and in extreme cases syncope, un- consciousness, and death may supervene. Whilst the quantity of blood lost and the rapidity with which the hajmorrhage occurs are, as above stated, the main considerations, other factors have to be taken into account; thus aged persons, and very young children, stand the loss of blood badly, but they differ markedly in their recuperative power—children recovering in cases not rapidly fatal (luickly and thoroughly, aged people much more slowly, and indeed rarely completely. Women at the period of parturition recover from hsemorrhages which at any other time would almost certainly prove fatal. Hoemorrhagic Fever.—After a serious hsemor- rhage the patient frequently presents the con- dition known as haemorrhagic fever, in which are found acceleration and sometimes irregu- larity of the pulse-rate, elevation of temperature, extreme thirst, diminution of the quantity of urine passed per diem, and low muttering quiet delirium. This condition, formerly held to be due to septic absorption, is now generally believed to be in great part due to insufticient supply of blood to the great nerve-centres. Spontaneous Arrest of Haemorrhage. — Fortunately in the great majority of cases natural processes stay the blood flow before the haemorrhage proves fatal. If an artery be divided completely, it, owing to its elasticity, retracts, and its muscular coat contracting narrows or even closes the open wound in the vessel. In this way the loss of blood is lessened or arrested, and coagulation at the seat of injury is favoured. In small arteries muscular con- traction may suflice of itself to completely arrest the hsemorrhage. Cardiac syncope not infre- quently, by diminishing the pressure of the blood in the artery, acts as a potent factor in arresting hsemorrhage. Coagulation of the blood is also aided by the exposure of the blood to atmo- spheric influences, and to the curling in towards the lumen of the vessel of its middle and internal coats. All the above factors aid in bringing about the formation of a blood-clot, which lies inside the sheath of the vessel, and is applied to the end of the divided artery, constituting the " temporary external coagulum." A second blood coagulum now forms within the lumen of the severed vessel. This, which is known as the "internal coagulum," frequently extends upwards as far as the next large branch of the vessel. The external coagulum becomes in