HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM 109 advanced kidney disease, though under the circumstances it is not likely that cardiac failure will be pronounced. The writer is not aware that those who have devoted special attention to urinary casts can assert from the kind of casts present in a heart case that the limit of mere " venous congestion " has been passed, and that true nephritis is established. No doubt abundance of casts, and specially of casts other than hyaline, which have least value, points strongly to the passage having been made, or to there having been old nephritis. The frequent occurrence of embolism of the kidney in heart disease must be borne in mind with regard to albuminuria, and especially hBematuria. In one form of heart disease htematuria is specially frequent—not a transient appearance of blood, as in embolism, but one usually persistent till the end of the case—in malignant endo- carditis. The spleen suffers little from venous stasis in cardiac disease, evidently because of the ready distensibility of the liver, which is interposed between it and the obstruction. Clinically it seldom happens that the spleen is found con- siderably enlarged from this cause, and when it is the liver has probably undergone some secondary change, impeding the circulation in situ. When the primary obstruction is situated in the liver, as in interstitial hepatitis, on the other hand, enlargement of the spleen is com- paratively common. When the spleen is found markedly enlarged in a heart case the occur- rence is so unusual that special circumstances are at once suggested : either there has been recent large infarction of the organ, or there is septic endocarditis, which is associated with en- largement of the spleen in the same way as enteric fever is similarly associated, and the enlargement of the spleen is thus not the result of mechanical interference with its circulation— of venous stasis. Whenever the enlargement is considerable the lower end of the organ can be easily felt below the costal arch, while its descent downwards and towards the right, with inspiration, is easily ascertained. Stomach Symptoms.—The stomach in heart failure being specially subjected, like the other organs in the distribution of the portal circula- tion, to venous stasis, becomes prone to suffer from catarrhal inflammation of its mucous mem- brane. Attacks of catarrh vary in their acute- ness, and in some cases a subacute or chronic condition is assumed, generally the result of faulty treatment, and specially in the matter of feeding. It often happens that a patient with advanced heart disease has been by habit a good feeder, and may remain so even up to the end. The writer well remembers how the fact struck him, coming to a general hospital after two years' work in a fever hospital, the association of intense illness and the ability to eat and enjoy a meal being of course utterly unknown in fever practice. When there is no gastric catarrh it is not a rare event to see a patient, in the last stage of heart disease and not far from being in extremis, eating appar- ently with relish an ordinary meal. But even in such a case there have usvially been attacks of sickness and vomiting during which there has been positive loathing of food. In these attacks the tongue usually becomes thickly coated, and there is often a peculiar odour in the breath—suggestive of that of chloroform— while the urine will often show a port-wine colour on the addition of the liq. of the per- chloride of iron. This coloration is apt to be interfered with by the precipitation of phos- phate of iron, which dissolves on further acidula- tion. This "acetone" odour in the breath— sometimes in the urine—of a patient with heart disease leads the expert observer at once to seek for other evidences of gastric catarrh. It is possible that such attacks are often immediately set up by inappropriate and irritating food. In a case of the writer's—an advanced one of mitral stenosis—the patient, a girl, had surreptitiously obtained an orange from her neighbour, and seeing the nurse apjjroaching, gulped down the greater part of it in a mass, which was found post-mortem in her stomach seventy-two hours later, the symptoms of a most acute gastric catarrh having supervened, and speedily brought about a fatal termination. Even in this place the writer would call attention not only to the uselessness, but the actual harmfulness, of con- tinuing the attempt to feed the patient by the mouth during severe gastric catarrh accom- panied by vomiting. On the other hand, if the stomach is subjected to no medicinal treatment, but is simply allowed to rest absolutely—what feeding is necessary being accomplished per rectum—recovery is usually speedy. Among the clinical symptoms of angina pectoris the eructation of flatus towards the end of the attack has long been noticed, and there seems to be a curious association between eructation of " wind " and immistakable cardiac suffering. So much is this the case, that in questioning uneducated patients, the subjects of heart disease, with regard to their " wind" in the athletic sense of the word, they often misapprehend the application of the term, and enter into a lengthy description of their suffer- ing from abdominal distension and the relief obtained when they can belch up the peccant "wind." The frequent association of the two conditions—heart disease in some form and abdominal distension with "wind"—at least the feeling of it—is too common to be ignored, whatever be its explanation. The subject is one of considerable interest with regard to diet in heart disease. The intestines are no doubt apt to suffer from catarrhal conditions in a manner similar to the stomach, but it has become so much a custom