313 HYSTERIA particularly of static electricity. At the com- mencement of the attack these hysterogenic zones are painful, and there is a feeling of con- striction and bruising. They may be superficial or deep-seated, and are cutaneous in the sense that gentle friction will excite an attack. These hyperfBsthetic areas are also sometimes found over the following glandular organs, the mam- mary gland, the testicles, and the ovaries; the ovarian zone is the most frequent. The seat of the hypersesthesia is generally the gland itself, for certain authors have traced out the displace- ments of this zone as the ovary ascends during pregnancy. Hypera3sthesia, though less constant than anaesthesia, is an important factor in the induction of the attacks, and it is more often the cause of violent convulsive attacks. Up to the present we have only taken notice of the objective disorders of hypersesthesia, so to speak, now let us consider the subjective—the different algies or hyperalgesias of Pitres. These include a variety of phenomena, and give rise to many painful symptoms. Heptalgia, enteralgia, pleuralgia, ovaralgia, and testicular irritability may be prominent features ; ophthalmic megrim is more uncommon, and can be distinguished from the organic form by the absence of hemi- opia. Other neuralgic affections may occur, such as sciatica. No matter where the seat of pain may be, hysterical neuralgia can easily be dis- tinguished from ordinary neuralgia. The fits of pain do not come on spontaneously, but are pro- voked by accidental excitement, etc., and may reach an extraordinary intensity if the descrip- tions of the patients can be believed. Cephalalgic hysteria, real or superficial, may be limited to one region {clou hysterique). Certain patients suffer intense pain, which re- turns periodically in the evening or early morn- ing hours, and is sometimes mistaken for syphil- itic cerebritis or tumour on the brain. It is accompanied with giddiness, sickness, sleepless- ness, etc., which may simulate meningitis (men- ingitis, pseudo-hysterical). Spinal hypen^sthesia may be accompanied with contracture, and simu- late a mal de pott hysterique ; if it follows a trau- matism this symptom may give the idea of a fracture of the spine. Other hysterical mani- festations have been mistaken for arthritis, and have induced mistaken surgical intervention. Charcot maintains that arthritis of the knee is the most frequent. In M. Focas's cases the arthralgia attacked the knee thirty-eight times, the hip eighteen times, the wrist eight times, the shoulder four times, and the instep twice. These arthralgias are always accompanied by contrac- tures at the elbow and knee, where the position assumed is one of flexion; at the shoulder there is adduction, which causes a twisting of the trunk. Hysterical coxalgia is one of the most interesting of these arthralgias, as it may closely simulate true coxalgia, and as in the latter, the patient is unable to walk, and the least move- ment of the articulations causes pain. The limbs may be in a state of flexion or abduction. It requires a close examination to distinguish true coxalgia from hysterical coxalgia. In the latter, percussion of the great trochanter causes no pain in the knee-joint. Further, the sensi- tiveness of the skin in the corresponding region is modified ; the zone of pain assumes the shape of a triangle, whose apex is situated over the end of the sacrum, and extends to the folds of the groin and buttock. Hysterical coxalgia develops more rapidly than ordinary coxalgia, and an examination under chloroform shows no subluxa- tion, indicating an organic lesion ; in cases where amputation has been resorted to, owing to an erroneous diagnosis, the articulations have been found to be quite sound. C. Dyscesthesia. — Having spoken of hyper- sesthesia and anaesthesia, a few words may be said of the paraesthesiae. Haphalgia is the name given by Pitres to the sensory condition, in which a feeling of intense pain is created by contact with certain substances (such as copper, brass, etc.), which in a normal state only produce the sensation of touch. Allochiria is the name Ober- steiner gives to the condition in which the patient feels on one side of the body the impressions received on the other side. Motor Disorders These disorders may be permanent or tempor- ary ; permanent disorders must be carefully sought for, as they often frustrate efforts to find them. To illustrate, the hysterical patient may have slight paralysis which scarcely affects him, and is only perceptible by the use of the dyna- mometer. This muscular inertia induces dis- orders which the patient is unable to account for satisfactorily. For example, his legs give way under him when walking, just as they do in tabes. Amyosthenia may be local or general, and affects the muscles more frequently on the right side than on the left, but varies from one moment to another, being influenced by the attack, by emotion, and by the festhesiogenic agents. There is no pronounced modification of the tendon re- flexes ; they are generally normal, though some- times weakened and sometimes exaggerated. The muscular feebleness has one striking pecu- liarity, it is only apparent in voluntary and not in automatic motion. In certain cases the amyosthenia has the appearance of akinesia algera. Another well-known hysterical pheno- menon (Lasegue's symptom) must be studied along with amyosthenia, the patient cannot move unless he looks to see what he is doing ; for example, C. Bell tells of a woman who could not hold her baby in her arms unless she looked at it. This phenomenon is accompanied by a tactile and muscular anaesthesia of the weakened limbs ; in other instances the patient cannot move at night in the dark. Individuals suffering from