HERNIA 207 given by an adherent pellet of omentum. Oc- casionally movement may be transmitted to the ovary by traction upon the uterus through the vagina. If the patient menstruates (which is not always the case), the ovary will be recog- nised as being swollen aud tender at each period. Examples of herniated cystic ovary and parovarian cyst have been recorded. {See " Ovaries.") Treatment,— An operation is nearly always desirable. The ovary when healthy should be reduced if possible. If firmly adherent or altered by pathological processes removal will be necessary. Congenital Hernia of the Cecum and of THE Sigmoid Flexure.—The cfccum on the right side and the sigmoid flexure on the left are occasionally present in " congenital " sacs. It has been shown that under such circumstances the visceral descent is the result of the action of the gubernaculum. Above the testis the smooth muscular fibi'es of the gubernaculum are continued upwards with the vessels of the testis and the vas deferens, in a peritoneal fold to which Lockwood has given the name " Plica vascularis." The ultimate attachment of these fibres is to the peritoneum lining the posterior abdominal wall. In these forms of hernia the unduly exaggerated action of the gubernaculum results in the di'agging down bodily of the peri- toneum to which the fibres are attached. There is, as it were, a sort of "landslip." The caecum or the sigmoid flexure will then bear to the sac the same relation as to the parietal peritoneum before the descent began, for what was previ- ously parietal peritoneum is now the sac, and the mutual relationship of viscus and serous membrane is unaltered. Traces of the gubernaculum (the "natural fleshy adhesions" of Scarpa) have been dis- covered in the wall of the sac. Treatment.—In the operative treatment of these cases the removal of the whole sac is, of course, out of the question. The peritoneum should be removed up to within an inch of the attachment of the viscus to the sac, the cut edges of the membrane stitched with a continu- ous suture of fine catgut, and the curtailed sac and its contents bodily returned. Acquired Hernia of the Cecum.—An ac- quired hernia of the caecum is most frequently of the right inguinal variety, but right femoral, and left inguinal and femoral, are also met with. There has been much needless discussion as to the peritoneal coverings of the caecum when involved in a hernia. It may be emphatically stated that there is no difference in the be- haviour of the caecum in this respect from that of any other viscus. The peritoneal covering of the caecum and ascending colon varies within very wide limits. In some examples, though very few, the caecum may have no coating of serous membrane on its posterior surface. lu others, the caecum and the whole of the ascend- ing colon may be included within the layers of a mesentery continuous with that of the small intestine. Between these two extremes any condition may be met with, but in the great majority of cases, at least 95 per cent, the caecum and a small portion of the ascending colon are completely clad with peritoneum. Whatever the condition of the caecum may be when within the abdomen, such will its con- dition be when descended into a hernia. If the serous covering be absent in the abdomen, it will be absent in the hernia; if complete within the abdomen, it will be complete within the hernia. Hernia of the Appendix Vermiformis.— Hernia of the appendix derives its chief interest from the fact that inflammation, recurring from time to time, and possibly going on to suppura- tion or gangrene, may occur in the hernial sac. The implication of the little process in the hernia may lead to its strangulation or to an attack of appendicitis ; or, it has been suggested, the occurrence of inflammation with the attend- ant swelling and stiffening of the process may be primarily responsible for the hernial descent. The appendix may be alone in the sac, or be associated with the caecum or with other viscera. It may be normal in appearance, and reducible ; it may be bulky from the deposit of fat, dis- tended into a cyst, or shrivelled and irreducible. So far as the treatment of the condition is concerned, it is probably safer in all cases to remove the appendix. This can generally be effected through the incision made for the treat- ment of the hernia, but in certain cases a second incision over the caecum may be desirable. The Treatment of Hernia The treatment of hernia is either 2xdliative or operative. Palliative Treatment consists in the wear- ing of mechanical appliances, specially fashioned for each separate form of rupture, known as ti-usses. A truss should fulfil two essential conditions : it should retain the hernia completely under all circumstances, and it should be perfectly com- fortable. Inguinal and femoral trusses consist of a belt, containing a steel spring encircling the body and a pad, by means of which the force of the spring is applied to the point of exit of the rupture. Steel is better than any other metal, but is not wholly satisfactory. The secretion of the skin causes the spring to rust, and, after some time, to snap. No other material, however, is so satis- factory either in this or other respects. The pad is best made of cork covered with a layer or two of flannel. The truss throughout is covered on the external surface by leather or calf-skin, and on the inner side by chamois leather. A patient, when measured for a truss, should be lying down. A tape is then carried round