ICHTHYOL 336 odour, containing about 15 per cent of sulphur, obtained by tlie distillation with sulphuric acid and neutralisation with ammonia of a bituminous quartz of fish origin found in the Tyrol. It is soluble in water, glycerine, ether, fats, and oils. Dose—10-30 grs. Sulpho-ichthyolates of sodium and lithium may be administered in similar doses. A sulpho-ichthyolate of zinc is also prepared, and is used externally. Externally ichthyol has been employed in a great number of chronic skin diseases, such as eczema, psoriasis, acne, and favus. It is usually prescribed as an ointment in strengths of from 10-50 per cent. In some cases collodion 7 parts with ichthyol 1 part will be found to be a useful application. It was at one time strongly recommended in the treatment of erysipelas, but it probably has little if any effect in check- ing this disease. A weak ointment has been said to exercise a favourable influence on the course of small-pox if applied in the early stages. It is occasionally used in the form of an oint- ment to relieve pain in chronic and subacute articular rheumatism. For gonorrhoea, cystitis, leucorrhoca, etc., injections varying in strength from 1-5 per cent are indicated. Vaginal tampons soaked in ichthyol and glycerine are extensively employed in the treatment of various pelvic inflammatory and congestive conditions. Internally ichthyol is given in capsule or in solution for many skin diseases of a chronic nature, and in urticaria. It is also recom- mended for chronic rheumatism, and as an antiseptic in flatulent dyspepsia. It has enjoyed a temporary popularity in the treatment of many widely different conditions, but the results obtained have been quite inconclusive in the majority of instances. Ichthyosis. Syn. : Fish-skin Disease, Xerodermia Ichthyoides. Definition ...... 336 Ichthyosis Fcetalis Gravior . . . 336 „ „ MiTiOR . . .336 „ Simplex .... 337 „ Hystrix Gravior . . . 339 „ „ MiTioR . . .339 Local Ichthyosis (Hyperkeratosis) . 339 See also Pellagra (Symptoms); Pregnancy, Pathology, Intra-Utekine Diseases (Foetal Ichthyosis, etc.); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands (Seborrhoea); Tongue (LeuJco- keratosis). Definition. — A disease present at birth or developing in early infancy, in which the skin is dry, rough, and scaly, with deficiency of normal secretions ; or covered partially or generally with horny plates and warty growths. Under this definition are included all the forms of fcctal ichthyosis, the various degrees of ordi- nary ichthyosis, and the generalised and localised types of ichthyosis hystrix. " Local ichthyosis " or " hyperkeratosis," due to chronic local irrita- tion, nervous diseases or venous stasis, will also be considered. The following conditions are omitted as not being true forms of ichthyosis, viz. " acquired ichthyosis," a disease of advanced life, and due to a form of seborrhcsa. " Ichthy- osis palmaris et plantaris" and " ichthyosis linguae" will be found under the headings of Tylosis and Tongue respectively. Ichthyosis Fcetalis Gravior—(Syn. : Harle- quin Foetus).—In this rare and most repulsive disease changes in the skin of a most pronounced kind are observed at birth. The epidermis is greatly hypertrophied, hardened, and broken up into scales and plates of different sizes, shapes, and thicknesses, separated by fissures and fur- rows of varying depth and width. The skin feels hard and leathery, and is of a dirty grey or yellow colour. The fissures and furrows, in contrast to the general colour of the plates, are of a deeper purple or brown. As a result of general contraction of the thickened integument, the mouth gapes, and the nose, as well as the reproductive organs, are practically absent. For the same reason the limbs maintain their intra- uterine position of flexion. The mucous mem- branes are unaffected. Such children are almost always born pre- maturely, while owing to the inability to suck, interference to the functions of the skin, sup- puration from pyogenic organisms, visceral and pulmonary congestions, death soon ensues. In one case (Jahn) life was prolonged for nine days. Etiology.—In about 8 per cent of recorded cases other children in the same family have been born with the same disease. Pathology. — Various views have been ex- pressed as to the minute changes occurring in the skin. There is little doubt that the onset of the disease dates from the third or fourth month of foetal life. Some observers (Simpson, 11. Croker) hold that the condition is an exagger- ated form of ordinary ichthyosis, while others (F. Hebra, Bland-Sutton) consider it to be a form of general seborrhoea. Unna disputes its relation to ichthyosis, and looks upon the malady as a imiversal congenital hyperkeratosis due to defective nutrition. Ichthy'OSis Fcetalis Mitior. — Under this name are included the milder cases of foetal ichthyosis. Family prevalence as in the grave form is not uncommon, and many cases are prematurely born and die young. In a certain number of cases which reach adult life the condition be- comes indistinguishable from one of severe ordinary ichthyosis, and for this reason it may be looked upon as a connecting link between ichthyosis fcetalis gravior and ordinary ichthy- osis. At birth the body is covered with a thin dry