17 H^MATEMESIS course indicative of the worst prognosis, as show- ing the virulence of the primary disease, while blood in the vomit of cases of diphtheria with- out haemorrhages elsewhere is a very ominous sign, inasmuch as death from cardiac failure is very likely to follow, the heart muscle, like the stomach, having undergone toxic degeneration. The more remote prognosis is that of the morbid lesion responsible for the hsematemesis ; thus the small " coffee - ground " vomit of malignant disease is of infinitely more serious import than the copious hsematemesis of gastric ulcer. Treatment. — The patient should be kept absolutely at rest, and the head flat so as to prevent syncope. Mental anxiety may be relieved by the hypodermic injection of morphia. Nothing should be given by the mouth, and thirst, which after a large haemorrhage may be urgent, should be relieved by enemata of 8 to 10 oz. of water every four hours. Various styptics may be given by the mouth for their local action on the stomach, such as acetate of lead 2 grs. every three hours ; gallic acid grs. x., combined with dilute sulphuric acid TT(^x. ; opium in various forms, oil of turpentine TT|_xx. every six hours. I have found half- drachm doses of Ruspini's styptic in an ounce of water act well; suprarenal extract by the mouth has recently been suggested as a local styptic. In order to increase the coagulating power of the blood, calcium chloride in full doses (grs. xxx.) every two hours for a few doses may be tried. The hypodermic injection of gelatine has been employed with the same object. The hypodermic injection of ergotin or digita- lin is not advisable. The local application of an ice-bag over the stomach has been widely recommended, does not appear to do any harm, and may do good in several ways. In cases with very severe anaemia and collapse, intravenous transfusion of saline solution should be resorted to. When large haemorrhages are repeated at short intervals, or small haemor- rhages occur very frequently, the abdomen should be opened, the stomach incised, and the mucous membrane examined ; any ulcer or pore- like erosion should be treated surgically. In repeated haematemesis of splenic anaemia splenectomy has been known to prove a curative measure. It is advisable to give a pui-ge, blue pill, and haustus sennae two days after haematemesis due to cirrhosis ; in cases of vilcer it is wisest to be content with enemata. The dietetic and further treatment varies with the cause; thus in gastric ulcer, rectal feeding should be the rule for about two weeks, whereas in cirrhosis liquid food may be cautiously given, provided there is no recurrence two or three days after the haematemesis. In VOL. IV the smaller haematemesis of malignant disease and that symptomatic of fevers and hajmor- rhagic disease, food should be given earlier. Hsemathidrosis or Haemati- drOSiS.—Cutaneous h;emorrhage without any apparent lesion of the skin; bloody sweat; haemidrosis. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Siveat Glands, Haemidrosis). Has mat in. See Faeces {Abnormalities, Blood); Physiology, Blood {Decomposition of Haemoglohin); Pigments op the Body and Excreta {Hcemoglobin and its Derivatives); Spectroscope in Medicine {Absorption Spectra). HsematiniCS. — Drugs and substances which increase the amount of haemoglobin in the blood when it is deficient, such as iron, arsenic, and good food. See Pharmacology. H ae m at i n U r i a. See Black water Fever {Nomenclature); Malaria ; Purpura ; Scurvy IN Adults. Haematobium. See Filariasis. HaematObiaSt.—An immature or im- perfect form of the red blood corpuscles. Hasmatocele. See Ectopic Gestation {Intraperitoneal Ilaematocele) ; Pelvis, HyEMA- tocele and H.ematoma ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Hce?natocele in the Scrotum). HaematOCtiyluria.—The presence of blood and chyle in the urine. See Filariasis {Filaria Bancrofti, Pathogenic Effects, Hcema- tochyluria). HaematOCOipoS. — The retention of menstrual blood in an imperfectly developed (atresic) vagina, or in one half of a double vagina {lateral hcematocolpos). See Generation, Female Organs, Arrested Developments. HaematOCrit. — An instrument for measuring the volume of blood corpuscles present in a fixed quantity of blood. See Blood {Clinical Examination, Iledin's Hoematoci'it). Haematocytoiysis.—The process of the breaking up of blood corpuscles. Haematocytometer. See Blood {Enumeration of Corpuscles); HEMACYTO- METER ; HiEMOCYTOMETER. HaematOg^en. See Chlorosis {Treat- ment, Special). HaematOg^enesiS.—The development of the blood corpuscles. See Blood {Develop- mental History). Haematoidin. See Expectoration {Microscopical Examination, Crystals); Liver, Diseases of {Pigmentation); Physiology, Blood 2