INFLUENZA 425 eastwards to Tomsk in Siberia, north-westwards to St. Petersburg, and westwards to the Caucasus and Southern Russia. In the last quarter of the year named the epidemic spread rapidly from Eastern Europe to the central and western countries. Early in 1890 it extended to America, Africa, and Australasia, "so that," says Finkler, " we may truthfully designate its appearance in 1889-90 as pandemic." "The high flood of the pandemic," observes the same writer, " flowed over the whole globe in the space of a few months." As it travelled westward the disease was known by some name connecting it with the country whence it spread. Thus, in Siberia it was the "Chinese distemper"; in Russia, it became " Siberian fever"; in Western Europe it was the " Russian influenza." Etiology A theory was propounded in 1890 by the Hon. RoUo Russell that the pandemic of 1889- 90 might possibly be traced to the diifusion of a,tmospheric dust in the wake of a great flood which had occurred early in 1888, in that part ■of China through which the Hoang Ho, or Yellow River, flows. This theory is everywhere discredited, although Dr. E. Symes Thompson in 1890 threw out the suggestion that dust in the air, whether Chinese dust or meteoric dust, might supply the " raft" for the aerial con- veyance of the microbe of influenza. The presence and diffusion of dust in the air, according to Thompson, might be the condi- tion which determined the prevalence of the •disease, and might be adequate to convert a local epidemic into a universally distributed ■or pandemic wave. In the British Medical Journal of May 9, 1891, the present writer offered a meteorological explanation of the transference of influenza from point to point ■on the earth's surface. Influenza had been raging in North China since the beginning of the winter of 1890-91. It appeared in several towns in the United States of America early in March 1891, and spread east- wards from Chicago, Pittsburg, Cleveland, and several other places in Ohio and in Iowa, finally invading New York and other cities near the •eastern sea-board. About the second week in April an outbreak occurred in Norway, 891 cases being reported in one week in Christiania, and also in Sweden, notably in Goteborg. Almost ■simultaneously a severe outbreak took place in ' Yoi'kshire and Lincolnshire, extending thence southwards and westwards to the Midlands and the south-eastern counties of England. The presumption is that the influenza microbes were wafted from China across the Pacific to North America by the air-currents connected with a winter barometric depression lying over the North Pacific. Subsequently the germs would be distributed along the eastern sea- board of the North American continent by the north-westerly winds of the American winter anticyclone or area of high atmospheric pres- sure, which results from the y»iling up of masses of cold, dense air over the land in winter. Proceeding on the lines of the same hypothesis, the agency by which the influenza outbreak in North-Western Europe was produced was a spring anticyclone over Scandinavia and that part of the North Atlantic to which the name of the " Norwegian Sea " has been given. Reference to the weather charts published in the Daily Weather Report of the Meteorological Office, London, will show that almost vminterruptedly from tlie 1st to the 25th of April 1891 an anticyclone hung over either Scandinavia or the Norwegian Sea, or over both these districts. Under such circumstances, easterly and north- easterly winds — descending from the higher strata of the air, and hence so keen and dry as these winds are known to be—played upon the very districts in Sweden and Norway, and Eng- land, which were simultaneously affected with epidemic influenza. In his Report to the Local Government Board for England and Wales on the Epidemic In- fluenza of 1889-90, Dr. H. Franklin Parsons observes that the progress of the epidemic in a direction from east to west, i.e. in a direction contrary to the winds prevailing at the surface of the ground, is at first sight opposed to the hypothesis of an infective material being carried by the air. Dr. Alexander Buchan, LL.D., Fellow of the Scottish Meteorological Society, explains this progress by supposing the material to be caught up by the ascending currents into the upper regions of the air, where curi'ents prevail in different directions from those at the surface of the earth, and brought down again in other places where descending or anticyclonic currents exist. The late Rev. Clement Ley, Inspector of the Meteorological Office, London, however, informed Dr. Parsons that the atmo- spheric conditions prevailing during winter over the central and northern regions of the con- tinents of Asia and Europe are such that upward currents cannot occur there at that season—the cold which prevails over the great continental tract in question renders it throughout the winter an area of high barometric pressure and descending air - currents. This reclamation, nevertheless, does not affect the hypothesis given above as to the aerial transference in the winter of 1890-91 of influenza germs from China to North America, and thence to Scan- dinavia and the British Isles. The mode of spreading and the prevalence of influenza are apparently quite independent of season, and weather, and climate — a cir- cumstance which distinguishes influenza from epidemic bronchial catarrh. Petrus Salius Diversus wrote — "Et tempore frigidiori et calidiori, et flante tam Austro quam Borea et