299 HYPNOTISM age, had never menstruated, but did so after the second hypnosis. Some of the successful cases of dysmenorrhoea were severe and of long standing, the periods being much lengthened and the intervals shortened. Grossmann records a case of amenorrhoea, of three years' duration, in a women 30 years of age. A few hours after the first hypnosis, the period commenced slightly, and became copious after the second seance next day. The following case is recorded by Bernheim:— Madame M., aged 35.—Up to the birth of her first child, menstruation was regular, with an in- terval of 21 days ; afterwards, she suffered from menorrhagia and dysmenorrhoea, the interval between the periods varying from 11 to 13 days. Bernheim suggested a progressive retar- dation of the periods, a definite time being fixed for the appearance of the menses, e.g. 25, 27, 28, and 29 days. These suggestions were successful; an interval of 29 days was estab- lished, the dysmenorrhoea ceased, and the duration of the period was reduced from 6 to 3 days. Successful cases of amenorrhoea, dysmenor- rhoea, and menorrhagia are also cited by Delius, Wetterstrand, Voisin, Berillon, Gascard, Journee, Marandon de Monthyel, Bourruj Buret, Decle. Many of the cases were of long standing, and had resisted other methods of treatment, while their recovery was confirmed by later reports. My personal observations accord with the conclusions just cited. In nearly every instance, where deep hypnosis had been induced, the dysmenorrhoea ceased, even when it was associ- ated with various forms of uterine displacement. In many cases of menorrhagia, the length of the interval was increased, and that of the period diminished. Some of these patients, who foi-- merly had to pass at least a week in bed at each period, have now no interruption in the activity of their lives. In one case of amenorrhoea of eighteen months' duration, the period appeared a few hours after the first seance, and again a month later, when hypnosis was reinduced. In another, of eighteen months' duration, the period appeared at the day indicated, in response to a post-hypnotic suggestion made three weeks previously. In the majority of cases, the hypnotic treat- ment required was short, and the menstrual functions remained normal after its cessation. Secretion of Milk. — Several cases are recorded in which the secretion of milk has been increased or arrested by suggestion. One of the earliest is cited by Esdaile. His sister- in-law, when weaning, suffered from an accumu- lation of milk in her breasts, which rendered them painful and swollen. Esdaile hypnotised her; in half an hour she was free from pain, while next morning the breasts were soft and comfortable, and without further secretion of milk. An experiment, the reverse of this, was related by Braid. He hypnotised a patient and suggested an increase of milk in one breast. On waking, she had no recollection of what he had said, but complained of tightness in the breast. Her child was fourteen months old, and her milk had almost disappeared; despite this, the breast became almost immediately distended with it. A few days later. Braid successfully 'repeated the experiment with the other breast. The patient suckled her child for six months longer, the supply of milk being- more abundant than it had been at any time since her confinement. The following case is reported by Grossmann : —B., aged 20, primipara, suckled her child for a fortnight; then ceased to do so as she had to leave home. Three weeks later, she returned and wished to nurse the child again, but she had no milk in the right breast and hardly any in the left. The patient was hypnotised, and the sensations associated with the flow of milk suggested. In three minutes, the veins of the left breast became enormously congested, and milk began to flow from it. At first, repeated pressure failed to produce a single drop from the right breast, but when the suggestions were repeated it was secreted freely. An interesting case is recorded by Freud, where a patient was unable to suckle her child, not from want of milk, but because violent vomiting followed whenever the child was put to the breast. This symptom had appeared after a previous confinement, and the patient had been compelled to abandon her attempts to suckle. On the present occasion, and also on a subsequent one, hypnotic suggestion rapidly removed all difficulty. Stammering.—As a rule, good results depend upon deep hypnosis, but exceptions occur, and cure may take place when slight hypnosis alone has been induced. Thus, one of my patients, an inveterate stammerer, whose infirmity ren- dered him self-conscious, shy, and miserable, completely recovered although he barely reached the stage of lethargy. All the other morbid symptoms disappeared when the stammering ceased, and the patient has recently been called to the bar. Wetterstrand reports 48 cases, average age fifteen years, with the following- results : recovered 15, improved 19, no im- provement 14. Sea-Sickness.—Slight hypnosis has apparently little effect in preventing sea-sickness. The results, however, are often very successful when profound hypnosis can be induced. Here, even when the suggestions have been made months previously, sickness is often entirely prevented, even with patients who had previously been invariably ill on short and calm voyages. One of my patients, who before treatment had been