INFANT FEEDING 408 soluble carbohydrates, together with a fair pro- portion of proteid. It contains only a trace of fat ("IS per cent), but as this food is always to be used with cow's milk the fat deficiency is less important. Such a preparation as this, which is intended as an addition to, not a substitute for, cow's milk, is much less open to objection than the other foods, and there can be no doubt that in some cases the addition of one teaspoonful or two of Mellin's food to one or two of the milk foods daily proves useful, not only by its own nutritive value, but also by facilitating the digestion of the milk. MeUin's food has, how- ever, a laxative effect, which, although often useful, may contra-indicate its use where there is any looseness of the bowels. As already said. Composition of diet in the second and later years. It is true that a certain number of infants can and do digest such foods as early as the seventh month, but these are the exceptions, and more often the result is flatulence and colic, if not more serious disturbance of digestion. The use of such foods during the first six months of life is a common cause of the pitiable condition of misery and marasmus which is so frequently seen amongst the infants of the poor. The proportions of the more important con- stituents of some of the best known of the proprietary foods may be seen from the follow- ing table, which has been compiled from analyses published by various observers, several by Dr. Leeds:— Proprietary Foods Starch Soluble carbohydrates (Sugar, dextrin, etc.) Fat . . . . Nitrogenous bodies . Ash . AUenbury No. 1. AUenbury No. 2. Horlick's Malted Milk. Mellin. Nestle's Food. Savory & Moore. AUenbury No. 3. Ridge's. 0-0 0-0 00 0-0 36-86 36-36 60-01 77-96 65-48 69-02 63-59 68-18 40-9 44-83 25-1 5-19 13-15 12-48 8-4 0-18 4-25 0-43 1-05 0-63 14-25 12-5 21-85 10-07 11-0 9-63 10-23 9-24 4-75 4-08 3-95 3-75 1-7 0-89 0-6 0-6 milk properly diluted is usually the only food an infant requires until the age of six or seven months, but where there is difficulty in digesting casein, especially if there is also troublesome constipation, and nutrition seems to be failing, a small quantity of Mellin's food may be given occasionally in the milk with advantage at as early an age as three months. Partially malted cereal foods which contain some unconverted starch form the majority of the advertised " infants' foods." Such are the AUenbury No. 3 food and Savory & Moore's food. The latter, when mixed with a warm fluid, either water or milk, as directed, under- goes changes by which the starch is partially converted, owing to the presence of malt diastase in the dry preparation. Benger's food is somewhat similar, but the partial conversion of starch is accomplished by pancreatic ferments. Such foods are very deficient in fat, and vmless made with milk are wholly unsuitable for the feeding of infants; used with milk, how- ever, they are sometimes of service during the later months of the first year. They should not be given with every feed, once or twice in the day is usually sufficient, starch being thus cautiously introduced into the diet. Farinaceous foods, in which there has been little or no conversion of starch, such as Ridge's food, Neaves' food. Frame food, entire wheat flour, and the ordinary home-made arrowroot or corn-flour, and the various "biscuits," can seldom be taken with advantage earlier than the tenth month, and in most cases are better avoided until the end of the first year. They all have their use, and are valuable additions to Eggs and Meat Foods The value of eggs as a fat-containing food is perhaps hardly sufficiently appreciated. The yolk of an egg contains nearly 30 per cent of fat, and in this respect is a most desirable food for infants. As early as nine months of age an infant may have the yolk of an egg very lightly boiled once a day, and during the second year eggs are an important constituent in the dietary of infancy. The white of an egg is of value chiefly as a proteid - containing food, and is occasionally a useful addition to the diet where an infant is unable to digest the proteids of cow's milk, and is being fed with a mixture of cream and water, which, although containing a sufficiency of fat, contains very little proteid. The white of the egg must be given raw, and the most convenient way to give it is in the form of "albumin water." The white of one raw egg is cut in several directions with a clean scissors and then mixed with half a pint of water, and flavoured with a little cinnamon water. Given in this form the white of an egg is often very useful as the only food for twenty- four or forty-eight hours in cases of severe vomiting and diarrhoea. Raw meat juice is used similarly to supply the proteid element where this cannot be taken in the form of cow's milk. Like the yolk of an egg, raw meat juice is rich also in iron and in phosphorus, and is specially valuable in rickets and anseniic conditions. An infant aged six months may take a tcaspoonful of raw meat juice, either sweetened and given alone in a