INSANITY, ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS 474 may that he cannot do it. This is in particular the symptom of stupor, which is essentially a depression in the functions of expression. Some- times stuporose patients remember what they have come through, and will tell you that they were labouring to say and do things, and failed. The contacts between the mechanisms of pur- pose and of conduct had not been made, or, if they were made, the tracts of conduct would not transmit currents. Lastly, we have to note that most interesting phenomenon, resistive- ness, in which the nerves, not content only with not doing what is wanted, insist upon doing the opposite. From the experience of the golfer, or other artist, who finds his performance so out with his conceit of it, to that degree of resistiveness in which the patient becomes rigid at the merest suggestion of movement, all degrees of resistiveness are to be observed in mental life. The Self in Insanity. — In sane life men control themselves, which is to say that they keep those parts of their brain in subjection which they prefer should be so. Insanity is the reverse, it is the subjection of the mind to a disordered brain. That is why it is fitting tliat, for purposes of insanity, one should re- gard mind in its organic aspect, so as to under- stand and be prepared for cerebral effects. It is true beyond any doubt that cerebral occasions mental activity; but it is no less true that mind influences nerves. It is quite obvious that nearly the whole brain can be brought into subjection to purpose and intention. We are then face to face with the problem of what becomes of the self when mental disorder has usurped it. And I have no desire to contribute to metaphysical futilities on this question. But if this relation of mind to brain is a fact, it has great importance in mental disorders. And I would ask the physician to revert again to the analogy of those incoordinations—such as aphasia and ataxia—which we know to be due to motor lesions. In svich a case it may be the patient is aware that when he intends one thing his nerves and muscles bring about another. So in insanity there are no doubt cases in which the patient realises that these words and acts are not his. In most instances, perhaps fortu- nately, insanity is as sleep, or as a dream, and the patient remembers not at all, or but vaguely, what has happened. But in all cases of con- valescence the mind clearly resumes authority, and in many cases, it may be, it has been con- scious of its overthrow, and not without hope of restoration. To build upon that, or to try to explain it, is to embark upon sheer mysticism. Yet the physician who prefers to be a mystic will not fail of reward if, while he does all he can to restore the disordered brain, he thinks kindly of the sad soul wlio is tethered outside of it, and if, when occasion offers, he tries to reach it and to reinstate it. III. The Insane Diathesis I have remarked, and repeated, that the brain has in it the potency of all that human char- acter is going to be, and that it is unique in its plasticity. It is the tissue which, above all others, must be prepared to take on new de- velopments. Each generation must be innately prepared for new ideas and new habits. And such a condition implies a possibility of great fluctuation or variability in the individual. Physiologists sometimes forget that, and omit from their account of brains the facts of the personal equation. For an organ which is still plastic, which is still evolving, is sure to mani- fest great departures from the type. And, though we cannot discern in every case in- dividual peculiarities of cortical structure, we certainly can observe mental differences. To take an exaggerated instance, nationality makes all the difference. For that reason, I think, we attach far too much importance to descrip- tions of mental disorders written by foreigners. Not that their observations are unsound, for in many respects they have taught us scientific methods in insanity. But the mind of a Parisian is not the mind of an Aberdonian; a Tyrolese peasant does not think and feel like a Yorkshire- man, nor a Dutch cheese-grower like a cockney cabby. And both national and local and per- sonal characters greatly modify types of mental disease. Hysteria in this country is not the gaudy type which it is in France; hystero- epilepsy is a comparatively insignificant thing with us; the mental facts of general paralysis and of alcoholism vary so much as to be hardly recognisable among different peoples; and (per- haps the best case in point) progressive system- atised insanity of persecution, as described by Magnan, can hardly be said to occur in Scot- land. Even in any one community the forms of mental disease are as important in their dis- crepancies as in their constant features. No two minds are alike either in health or in dis- ease, and a great many minds are remarkably divergent from the average. And, as we know is generally the case with extreme variations, these odd minds are liable to be unhealthy. A failure to achieve the full repertoire of functions which are the possession of the average mind is an obvious weakness, a want. But other minds, not to be termed imbecile, are also weak and unstable. These abnormal variations are brains in which one or a few functions are developed in excess, which means that the mind will not be well balanced. Such excess of function in one direction is apt to be associated with a lack in some other, and the mind fails to achieve that even activity under varying condition which is the sign of cortical stability. These odd minds are in my opinion much more deserving of study than cases of actual insanity. They repay study because, when short of insanity,