277 HYDKOCYANIC ACID to allay itching in such conditions as pruritus ani or vulvse, for which purposes a 2 or 3 per cent solution will be found sufHcient. It must not be applied if the skin is at all broken, as there is danger of poisoning from absorption. Internally it is given to relieve gastric pain and vomiting, especially when these are of purely nervous origin. It is frequently of great value in the treatment of irritable tickling cough, either alone or as an ingredient of a cough mixture. Hydrocystoma. See Skin, Diseases OP Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Sweat Glands, Hydrocystoma). Hydroformant Lamp.—A means of disinfection by fumigation, in which para- formaldehyde tablets are volatilised by the steam from boiling water in the lamp. H yd rogfe n Pe rox i d e. — H2O2. Is used in medicine as an aqueous solution. Liquor Hydrogenii Peroxidi, which should yield ten times its volume of oxygen. It is a colourless, odourless liquid with a slightly acid taste. Dose -i-23. It has been recommended for the treatment of diabetes, epilepsy, ursemia, dyspepsia, and many other diseases ; but there are no proofs of its efficacy in such conditions, and it probably is of no value in internal medication. For external use its action depends entirely on the oxygen given off when it comes in contact with any purulent material. It is used in ulcerative stomatitis, in tonsillitis, and in diphtheria. It is also a valuable preparation for cleansing ulcers and malignant growths. It is an excellent disinfectant and deodorant for injection into foul abscess cavities, but when used for this purpose care must be exercised that there is a free exit for the effervescing material that is given off. A plaster-of-Paris casing is softened and cuts easily after the application of peroxide of hydrogen, but acetic acid is equally good for this purpose and much less expensive. The pain accompanying the removal of strips of adhesive plaster is lessened by the application of peroxide. It has also been said to relieve the pain caused by wasps' stings. It is the active ingredient of the disinfectant fluid known as " Sanitas." Hydrogen Test. See Abdomen, In- juries OF {Diagnosis of Intestinal Perforation); Bladder, Injuries of {Rupture, Diagnosis of). Hydrometra.—The distension of the uterine cavity with a watery fluid. H y d ro m y e I i a. —D natation of the central canal of the spinal cord with fluid; sometimes used as a synonym of syringomyelia and even of spina bifida. See Spinal Cord, Medical {Ana- tomical Considerations, Central Canal); Spinal Cord, Medical {Spina Bifida); Syringomyelia {Pathological Anatomy). Hydromyringaor Hydromyrinx. —Dropsy of the tympanum. See Ear, Examina- tion OF {Tympanum, Fluid in). Hydronephrosis. See Abdominal Aneurysm {Pressure Symptoms); Ascites {Dia- gnosis); Circumcision {Phymosis, Complications); Kidney, Surgical Affections op {Hydro- nephrosis) ; Prostate Gland {Pressure Symp- toms) ; Urethra, Diseases op {Stricture, Sequela); Uterus, Non-Malignant Tumours op {Fibroids, Pressure Pestdts). Hydropathy. Internal uses of Water . . . 277 External uses of Water . . . 278 Hydropathic Methods . . . . 278 Packs 279 HoT-AiR Applications— General and Local . . . . 279 In Acute Diseases . . . . 279 In Chronic Diseases .... 280 Use of Ice ...... 281 See also Balneology {Action and. Kinds of Baths); Mineral Waters {Baths). Hydropathy, or treatment by water, is a most patent method either for good or ill. It covers an enormous amount of ground ; the uses of water—hot, cold, and frozen—internally and externally, by the aid of various mechanical methods, and in both acute and chronic disease. The drinking of water is absolutely necessary; without it life would be impossible. The human body contains about 59 per cent of water; there is a constant loss going on through the agency of respiration and the various secretions which must be made good. The internal functions of tissue change and the expulsion of waste products depend largely upon water. The drinking of cold water lowers for the time the temperature as taken in the axilla or rectum, reduces the frequency of the pulse, but increases its tension. These effects vary according to the quantity of water taken and the rapidity with which it is swallowed; the greater the quantity and the more quickly it is drunk the greater the result. The effect upon the pulse-rate is probably due to stimulation of the terminal branches of the vagus in the stomach, upon the tendency to stimulation of the vaso-motor centre. When drunk warm it causes diminished tension and a slight increase of pulse-rate, due, it has been thought, to nausea, causing a lower- ing of tone in the nerve-centres. Hot-water drinking (110° to 115° F.) seems to exert much the same influence on pulse-rate and tension as cold water, but slightly raises the general temperature of the body. The drinking of hot water is indicated when