DISEASE 265 HYDATID becomes much enlarged, is firm, hard, and often irregular on the surface, whilst it is not much altered in shape, and is not tender. There is often progressive enlargement of the spleen. The state of nutrition and general health of the individual remain remarkably good for a long time. At a later stage there are often haemor- rhages from various sites, and some fever from degeneration at the centre of the diseased area, and towards the end there is often very marked ascites. Multiiocular echinococcus has been mistaken for carcinoma or hypertrophic cirrhosis of the liver, but it mainly occurs between the ages of twenty-seven and fifty, develops slowly, and does not cause cachexia. Pulmonary Echinococci. — 1. In the lungs (7"4, Neisser). The echinococcus is usually single, may be situated in any part, but more often on the right side than the left (25:11, Neisser), and is as a rule in the lower lobe. The adventitious capsule, as is always the case when the echinococcus is well protected, is extremely thin, and the cyst not infrequently occupies the greater part of one-half of the thoracic cavity. The pressure effects on the heart and lungs are slowly developed, for the cyst grows slowly and insidiously, and the patient who is apparently in good health merely suffers from dyspnoea on exertion. The physi- cal signs are those of a solid tumour or a pleuritic effusion—impairment of movement, possibly bulging of the chest wall, dulness, with absence of vocal fremitus, breath sounds and resonance. The cyst while still of moderate size often ruptures into the bronchi. Reid narrates the case of a man, ajt. 37, who had never previously been ill, and who whilst in perfect health was suddenly seized with a violent fit of coughing and expectoration of over half a pint muco - pus. There was a patch of dulness below the angle of the left scapula with absence of breath sounds. The sputum con- tained abimdant booklets. The patient was operated on and recovered. In some cases there is fever from secondary pleurisy, and if there be haemoptysis too from rupture of the cyst, the symptoms are not unlike those of phthisis. In spite of rupture into the bronchi there may be neither hooks nor portions of cyst wall de- tectable in the sputum. Reid records the case of a man, tet. 32, who six years previously had typhoid fever and pneumonia. The patient had ever since suffered from cough ; he had repeated violent attacks of coughing with expectoration of large quantities of frothy, watery, slightly blood-stained and somewhat offensive sputum. Microscopic ex- amination gave no evidence of hydatid disease ; the pulmonary hydatid finally began to suppur- ate, and the patient recovered after opera- tion. In cases where a hydatid of the liver has per- forated into the lung, the sputum may be of an ochre - yellow colour. Lenhartz in such a sputum found cholesterin, bilirubin and fatty granules. 2. In the pleura (1'9 per cent, Neisser). The echinococcus is either primary or else secondary owing to it invading the pleiu-a from elsewhere, usually from the liver. The pleura itself usually constitutes the adventitious capsule. The signs are those of a pleuritic effusion, but the dulness is often localised, with its upper limit dome- shaped, and is not altered by change of position; whilst suppuration of the cyst produces symp- toms similar to those of empyema. A patient suffering from a pulmonary echino- coccus may be cured by death of the parasite, rarely by rupture into the bronchi or alimentary tract, or rupture through the parietes. The disease is often fatal, death resulting from rupture into the bronchi or pulmonary artery, tuberculosis or gangrene of the lungs, or marasmus. Echinococci of the Urinary ,Syste))i. — The kidney is affected in 8"9 per cent (Neisser)— 2-8 per cent (Mosler and Peiper) of all cases of hydatids. The echinococcus is usually uni- lateral and situated primarily in the cortex, but as the cyst increases in size the whole kidney may become involved, and a large, firm, smooth swelling may be produced in one or other side of the abdomen. Symptoms may be entirely absent, and the condition may last for fifteen to twenty years, and not cause miich inconvenience. The cyst may, however, attain an enormous size, when there will be pressure symptoms, and adhesions will as a rule form between the cyst and the bowel, diaphragm, bladder, or spleen. Rupture of the cyst into the pelvis of the kidney may occur at any time, and is a somewhat favourable indication. Manasse has collected 51 cases from the literature where such rupture occurred. A case recorded by Wiesinger furnishes a good illustration. The patient had for two years a hydatid of the left kidney. He fell on his left side, the cyst ruptured, and blood and niunerous hooks appeared in the urine. In consequence of rupture the abdominal swelling may diminish somewhat in size, and there is often at the same time renal colic. The lu-ine rarely contains blood, but becomes cloudy or milky, contains pus cells, variovis crystals, hooks, portions of membrane, small daughter - cysts or brood- capsules, the latter being seen as transparent globules no larger than grape stones. The escape of cyst contents per urethram may con- tinue for only a few days, or may recur from time to time for more than twenty years. By cystoscopy it was possible in Manasse's case to ascertain that the orifice of the right ureter was enlarged to four times its normal size, and that thence the hydatids entered the bladder. If symptoms of pyelitis or suppuration of the cj'st