HYSTERIA, SURGICAL ASPECTS OF 330 Any one who wishes to enjoy a masterly description of the subject should read Sir James Paget's clinical lectures on Mimicry. In what I am now writing I shall follow these lectures somewhat closely, and will refer to them frequently. In any given case, according to Paget, we have three things to investigate—the etiology, the nervous history and condition of the patient, and the condition of the part affected. He urges that the last is the most important, and most to be relied upon in forming a diagnosis. Let me suppose, then, a case of hysterical joint affection. The patient comes, or is brought to us, supposed to be suffering from joint disease. There will probably be a history of some injury, or of some mental shock, or the affection may have come on gradually. We may also elicit some information that, taken in relation with the local conditions, may throw light on the case. For instance, an injury may have occurred so long before, that, had actual disease existed all that time, changes would be evident in the joint of a very marked and easily recognised character. The condition of the joint, however, may be quite different. And the want of due relation between time and symptoms may show that no real disease is present. ^ Valuable evidence may be obtained by know- ing that the affection came on after some mental shock, fright, worry, disappointment, debilitating fever (Jolly), overwork, or some such nervous perturbation. Reliable data may be obtained from the personal and family history. A full treatment of these will be found in the general article (p. 308). I shall merely say here that a neurotic or alcoholic personal and family history will make hysteria more probable, while on the other hand a gouty, rheumatic, syphilitic, or tuber- culous history would make one more cautious in coming to such a diagnosis. According to Paget the patients are mostly females, of nervous temperament, easily fatigued, antemic, liable to flushes, sensitive to pain, or an£esthetic. They think of themselves con- stantly and of the part affected; " egotism has its keenest life at and about the supposed seat of disease." They are "content, almost happy, in their afflictions," or they are discontented, and make every one miserable around them. They are fond of telling every one of their troubles, and thus court sympathy, for which they have a morbid craving. Will power is deficient in one direction, though some have very strong- wills when their interests are concerned. " I cannot " looks like " I will not," but is " I cannot will" (Paget). The family history will disclose a heredity of insanity, epilepsy, intemperance, or some other nervous disorder. All these points will have been made out ' Holmes says "there is no commensurate impairment of healtli." while we are examining the affected part, and, if the case be one of simulation or mimicry—a hysterical joint — we will find the following leading characteristics or symptoms present:— 1. Pain.—The pain complained of will be in excess of what we usually find in the disease that is simulated. The pain will also be super- ficial, rather than deep, gentle pressure and pinching the skin causing as much or even more expression of pain than deep, firm pressure. The pain will also vary at different times,- may shift from place to place, and may occur in places that we do not usually find painful in actual disease. Pain may be associated with or may alternate with anaesthesia. It seldom, if ever, interferes with sleep. In joints the forcible approximation of osseous surfaces does not cause pain if carefully per- formed, and there is no starting at night of the typical kind. 2. TemjMrature.—The general temperature is never raised in the same way as by disease. If there be any rise it will be irregular, capricious, or perhaps fictitious. It is more common to have the general temperature subnormal. If the temperature be above normal the patient should be examined all over. There may be some disease elsewhere causing the rise (Paget). The same may be said of the local tempera- ture. It is generally lower than normal, the affected part being blue or dead white. If there be any rise of temperature it will be associated with a flushing of the skin and quite temporary. Paget dwells strongly on the diagnostic im- portance of the peculiarities of temperature, and points out the risk of being misled by this flushing. He considers that in highly nervous persons any part of the body may flush, just as the face does, from special attention being drawn and directed to it. He considers also that a transient gouty condition may give colour and heat to a hysterical joint. These points have to be made out by the surgeon while he is examining the joint—passing the hand over it, gently moving it, closely scrutinising it, and at the same time questioning the patient, both with the object of diverting her attention from the part being examined, and of eliciting information as to the patient's history, constitution, heredity, and other subsidiary symptoms. In carrying out these manipulations another symptom will come into prominence ;— 3. Rigidity.—Stiffness or rigidity of the joint may be present to an excessive degree, in the flexed position if the hip or elbow be affected, in the straight position if the knee. On the other hand, but less frequently, the limb may be limjJ and useless, the patient complaining of weakness rather than of pain — free movement being- possible—such as would not occur in disease. Rigidity is more common and is usually exces- ^ Pain may remit, or intermit and recur suddenly (Jolly).