516 INSANITY, GENERAL TREATMENT OF ill a state of very acute mania, raving and raging and ramping, there is no drug that approaches in rapidity and efficiency of action to hyoscin. It is said to be uncertain in its action, and occasionally to produce dangerous effects, but these I have never seen, although I have used it largely, and in much larger doses than are customary; and I am inclined to be- lieve that where it has had ill effects it has either been improperly prepared, or has been administered in larger doses than the adminis- trator was aware of. In such a case as has been mentioned, my practice is to give one- fiftieth of a grain hypodermically or one-twenty- fifth of a grain by the mouth, and usually the patient is asleep in five minutes, and wakes after from six to ten hours without an un- pleasant symptom. The effect of the drug, even when administered hypodermically, is sometimes delayed ; I have known it to take no effect whatever for as much as two hours; but it must not be I'epeated for at least twelve hours, and I have never known it to fail. It may be that thus to produce a tranquil sleep almost immediately in a patient who was liowling, roaring, dancing, struggling, smashing, biting and kicking—it may be that to produce in him an instant and tranquil sleep, from which he awakes quiet and comparatively rational, or, as has happened in one case under my care, from which he awakes completely and permanently sane—it may be that this is chemical restraint, and if it be, let us be thank- ful that we have such a means of restraint at our command. When the mania is less acute and of a more lasting character, and especially in the excite- ment of general paralysis, no drug has the efficacy of sulphonal, the action of which is somewhat peculiar. It is very insoluble, and has no hypnotic effect for some hours after its introduction into the stomach; on the other hand, its action, unlike that of hyoscin, is very enduring. After a sufficient dose of sulphonal a maniacal patient will not only obtain several hours' sleep, but after he awakes the drug will maintain its action, and the patient will be tranquil, but rather stupid, and apt to be drowsy for the whole of the following day. In other words, as sulphonal is slowly absorbed, so it is slowly eliminated; and when it is given by routine in daily doses it accumulates in the body and produces disastrous effects. Sulphonal should never, therefore, be given continuously. Its use should be alternated with that of other hypnotics, and even when not alternated it should not be given for more than three or four days in succession. In view of the delay ill its absorption, it is always wise to combine, at any rate, the first dose of sulphonal with a less quantity of its congener trional, whose action is much more rapid and more transient. The trional puts the patient to sleep, and the sulphonal maintains the sleep. For the first night 30 or 40 grains of sulphonal may be com- bined with 20 of trional; and this may be followed the next afternoon by 30 grains of sulphonal, and the third or, at any rate, the fourth night, the patient will usually sleep without any drug. Bromide of potassium, chloral hydrate, and opium with its component alkaloids, are little used as hypnotics in the treatment of the insane. Bromide of potassium has its use as a calmative in the mania which is associated with epilepsy, and when administered for this pur- pose is of little use in less than drachm doses. Chloral hydrate is not to be recommended except as a variant to be used during the intermission of other drugs. Opium is now perhaps as much neglected as, when our re- sources were more limited, it was used in excess. As a hypnotic, indeed, it has little value, but it often appears to have a distinct ameliorative effect in melancholia, especially in the melan- cholia of middle and advanced age, given regularly two or three times a day. Of course in thus administering opium or morphia we run great risk of establishing an opium or morphia habit, but this is a risk that must be run. The choice is between two evils—between leaving the patient in the most wretched condition in which a human being can be, or relieving him at a cost which is indeed great, but which both he and all to whom he is dear would be willing to pay for his relief. As a mere hypnotic the most appropriate drug in melancholia is paraldehyde. Apart from the administration of food as an hypnotic, it is of very great importance upon other grounds in the treatment of insanity. Less important, perhaps, in the insanities of old age and middle life than in those of youth, it is yet important in all. As most cases of recent and acute insanity that come under care are found to have been for some time sleepless, so most of such cases are found to have been for some time underfed, and a copious supply of food is usually as important an element in their treatment as is the induction of sleep. Often it happens that the patient will not take food; more often that the food that he does take is not assimilated. There are patients who will not eat in company, or if they know that they are observed ; and there are patients who will not eat alone. There are those who will not eat from conscientious scruples that they do not deserve it, or that it is not paid for, or that they are not entitled to it; and there are those who will not eat anything that they have not previously stolen. There are patients who take insane prejudices against this or that kind of food, and again patients to whom this or that kind of food alone is accept- able. By far the most important peculiarity is the refusal of food, and this may be of various