HEMIPLEGIA 167 of the leg, even in such a case as that now re- ferred to, is never so complete as is the paralysis of the arm in an ordinary case. Thus it is rare to find in a case of this kind complete abolition of all movement in the leg, while it is not at all uncommon to find in a case in which the upper limb has suffered most that the arm is all but completel)^ paralysed. Besides the affection of the Umbs, that of the face may be obvious or may have to be care- fully looked for. The lower part of the face suffers more than the upper, the reason being that the movements of the upper part of the face on the two sides are much more closely associated in their movements than those of the lower part of the face, and consequently they are represented in a correspondingly greater degree on the same side of the brain. Thus there may be, indeed there usually is, distinct failure of ability to raise the upper lip on the affected side in any attempt to show the teeth, while there may be no appreciable difference in the two sides when an attempt is made to wrinkle the forehead. The tongue is deflected to the paralysed side when protruded, the stronger muscles of the healthy side pushing it towards the weak side of the body. The trunk muscles also suffer, but this is only seen, as a rule, on forced movement, the reason again being that the muscles of the one side are very closely associated in their habitual movements with those of the opposite side, and are consequently represented on each side of the brain, and therefore suffer comparatively little in a unilateral lesion. But a curious and important fact has been pointed out by Dr. Hughlings Jackson, viz., that in quiet respira- tion the movement of the paralysed side of the chest may be greater than that of the opposite side, while in voluntary respiration the side on which paralysis is present moves less than the other side. Such, then, are the chief motor symptoms which are found in a case of this nature as it comes before the observer in an early stage, and the lesion causing such a condition may be situated in the cortex, underneath this, or in the internal capsule, crus, or pons. There may, however, be other conditions present. Thus marked impairment of sensation may coexist with the unilateral motor impairment—a con- dition pointing almost invariably to a lesion in the posterior part of the internal capsule where the sensory fibres from the whole of the oppo- site side of the body are transmitted to their still somewhat obscure termination in the cere- brum. In such a condition it is not unusual to find the leg more affected than the arm, because of the closer proximity in this part of the fibres subserving the leg movements to those subserving sensation. For a similar reason, when sensation is found to be impaired, the visxial condition should be carefully ex- amined, for as the fibres of the optic radiation run very near the spot at which such a lesion would exist, hemianopsia as a result of damage to them may, and frequently does, coexist with sensory impairment. Such, then, is the usual condition as regards distribution and character of paralysis in a case of ordinary hemiplegia at the onset. In a certain number of cases, however, the face, instead of being affected on the same side as the body, is paralysed on the opposite side. This is due to the fact that the lesion causing the paralysis is so situated as to affect the facial fibres heloiv the nucleus, and therefore on the same side as that of the face to which they are distributed. Such a lesion, however, being- situated above the decussation of the pyramids, will naturally cause paralysis of the limbs and body of the opposite side. This position of the lesion accounts not only for this so-called " crossed" paralysis, but it also accounts for certain features in the characters of the facial paralysis and for some associated paralysis. Thus, in such a lesion the upper part of the face is more affected than in cases of ordinary hemiplegia—the paralysis appi'oaching closely in type to the ordinary type of facial paralysis resulting from an affection of the facial nerve {see " Facial Nerve, Paralysis of "). Then, also, in such cases there is usually associated with the facial paralysis an affection of the sixth nerve, caus- ing paralysis of the external rectus muscle of the eye on the same side. The close proximity of the sixth nerve nucleus to the facial in the pons will explain this as well as an occasional involvement of the sensation of the face—from affection of the fifth nerve. Another form of crossed hemiplegia is also met with in which the functions of the third nerve are interfered with on one side and of the face and of the limbs on the opposite side. Such a condition can only result from a lesion—if there be a single lesion—in the crus cerebri, where the motor tract for the opposite side of the body and the third nerve of the same side are in close apposition. A lesion also just above the decussation of the pyramids affecting the hypoglossal nerve for one side and the motor tracts of the other, may cause paralysis of the limbs on one side, and of the tongue on the opposite side, without any associated affection of the face. Such a lesion, however, is rare, and would almost cer- tainly prove fatal on account of its proximity to vital structures in the bulb. Reference has been made only so far to a condition of hemiplegia, commencing with little if any impairment of consciousness. Such a condition is usually the result of blocking of a small artery, although at first the dynamic effect of such a lesion may extend much beyond the area supplied by the occluded vessel, and so the initial paralysis be much more severe and