INSANITY, PATHOLOGY OF 456 as the shock of severe accidents, give rise to a large variety of traumatic psychosis. The development of the great majority of cases of insanity has not yet been accounted for, and there remains only one important condition to which they can be attributed, namely, toxic action. If the cerebral functions have developed in a normal manner, and if afterwards the person suffers from an attack of insanity, there are, with the rarest exceptions, really only two conditions that can explain the departure from the normal, namely, traumatism and toxic action, and the part played by the former is certainly a comparatively small one. It is true that inanition and involution have not yet been considered, but when these are analysed they both ultimately resolve themselves into toxaemias. Objection has sometimes been taken to attaching great importance to toxaemia in the etiology of insanity laecause of the fact that the metabolic changes occiirring in the nervous tissues are extremely small in amoimt. This objection to the toxic etiology of insanity is, however, rendered untenable by the fact that the meta- bolic changes that do take place are of great importance for the elements concerned. " The association of a very small amount of chemical change with the exquisitely fine chemical sen- sibility is what constitutes the dominant char- acters of nervous metabolism. The brain serves for the redistribution, not for the production of energy; it has been fittingly compared by Belmondo to a commutator" (Tanzi). The sensitiveness of the cortical nerve - cells to toxins is shown by various facts of common experience. Ordinary fatigue is due to the accumulation of physiological toxins and the brain is quickly influenced by them. In most illnesses of toxic origin, general lassitude and disinclination to exercise the mental functions are among the most constant symptoms. Various drugs, such as morphia, cocaine, strych- nine, etc., influence the cerebral nerve-cells with extreme readiness. Moreover, there is ample experimental evidence that nerve - cells are easily damaged by certain toxic agents. It is therefore futile to attempt to belittle the im- portance of toxic action as a cause of insanity on the ground of the small amount of metabolic change that occurs in the nerve-cells. Attempts have also been made to restrict the meaning of the term toxin in a way that serves only to make false distinctions and to create confusion. It is useless to limit the meaning of the term, when disease is being regarded from its biological standpoint as a reaction on the part of the cells of the body to an inimical force to which they are attempting to adapt themselves (the pi'ocess of somatic A'ariation). Any chemical agent to which a cell is not adapted (unable to iitilise or to protect itself from) may act as a toxin to that cell. The chief forms of toxic action concerned with the production of insanity may be suhi- marised as those resulting from simple in- toxication or poisoning, infections and auto- intoxications. Simple intoxications include those arising from the taking of alcohol, morphia, cocaine, lead salts, damaged maize, etc. In- fections include those associated with typhoid fever, pneumonia, meningitis, influenza, malarial fever, puerperal fever, syphilis (second stage), each of which may be complicated or followed by insanity, and also general paralysis of the in- sane, which, according to the researches of Dr. Douglas M'Rae and the writer, is dependent upon infection by one or other of two varieties of diphtheroid bacillus of special virulence. All of these infective conditions, through the action either of the primary toxins or of secondary ones, may so alter the functional reactivity of the cortical nerve - cells as to produce the amential syndrome, characterised especially by mental confusion. This syndrome would appear to be the characteristic clinical manifestation of widespread toxic processes actually taking place in the nerve - cells of the associative centres. Its extreme form is acute delirium. Another important form of infection is chronic toxic infection by micro - organisms that are ordinarily only saphrophytic, which arises in consequence of injury to the first line of defence, more particularly in the alimentary tract. This condition occurs especially in chronic alcoholism, general paralysis, senile insanitj', pellagra, the uremic psychoses, and in chronic constipation. Auto-intoxication is in the majority of in- stances consequent upon some previous patho- logical process which has impaired or destroyed the functional activity of certain organs, and has rendered the individual in certain respects unadapted to his environment. This occurs, for example, in cretinism and myxcedema in which the atrophy of the thyroid gland can only be accomited for as a consequence of a morbid process and not as a genetic variation. A similar explanation holds good for those forms of auto-intoxication that depend upon impair- ment of the hepatic, renal, adrenal, pancreatic, and parathyroid functions, as well for the auto- intoxications that occur in exophthalmic goitre and diabetes mellitus. As already indicated, some cases of auto-intoxication are also to be attributed to lack of adaptation resulting from genetic variation and to affective disturbances of psychical origin. The changes produced in the cortical nerve- cells by toxic action may be recovered from, or they may be permanent. When they are per- manent, there is some corresponding permanent change in the functional reactivity. A typical example is seen in secondary dementia. There are, however, many other morbid conditions that are to be similarly explained as dependent upon an irreparable lesion aff'ecting the associa-