142 HEART, AFFECTIONS OF MYOCARDIUM AND ENDOCARDIUM With regard to tlie former, the writer can only endorse the view of his old master, Dr. G. W. Balfour, and maintain that aortic incom- petence, far from affording cases that are un- suitable for the administration of digitalis, supplies the most brilliant examples of its cura- tive effects. He would go further, and add that oil calm reflection theory itself bears out the actual clinical experience of the treatment of cases of the kind by digitalis. Aortic incom- petence is the lesion of all others whose effects fall directly upon the left ventricle, the most powerful part of the heart muscle, and when we give digitalis under the circumstances we get its effects exerted in chief force just where it is most wanted. In mitral stenosis, a better case for the view he has condennied the writer admits can be made out; for in its case we have no powerful muscle wall in the chamber first con- cerned to influence and stimulate. Before we can bring increased muscle vigour to bear on the obstruction the pulmonary circulation must be congested, and after all, the right ventricle is at best wretchedly weak in comparison with the left ventricle. Moreover, in the earlier stages of the lesion the pulse, as we have found, is one of considerable tension, the sphygmogram displaying a well-developed tidal wave. But practical experience overrides these considera- tions. The study of cases of mitral stenosis to their end brings fresh strength to the belief in the practical usefulness of digitalis, for in the vast majority of cases the left ventricle is en- larged. When this unquestionable fact is ex- plained in as unquestionable a manner, the writer is prepared to reconsider his position in regard to the efficacy or harmfulness (for if it does not do good, so powerful a remedy cannot be simply inoperative) of digitalis in mitral stenosis. The writer cannot too strongly condemn, however, the custom of giving digitalis as soon as the lesion of mitral stenosis is discovered, and while there are practically no symptoms, and there is a regular and almost too high pulse tension. But, of course, in every form of heart disease it is the evidence of muscle failure that alone constitutes the justification of the use of digitalis and the other drugs of its class. The pernicious habit of giving such drugs as soon as a lesion is discovered is to be further condemned, in that it probably, so to speak, " spoils the case," by habituating the heart muscle to its influence, in such a way that when the time comes for actual muscle failure and for the physiological effects of such drugs being legiti- mately sought, the heart muscle has been so rendered abnormal with regard to them that only an abnormal response can be forthcoming. These remarks are meant, of course, to apply chiefly to digitalis, but the same meddlesome- ness may make use of other tools. In certain of the lower animals death from digitalis poisoning is associated with tetanic contraction of the heart, which of course brings the circulation to a standstill quite as effectually as the most complete paralysis, but in the human subject all post-mortem evidence goes to show that the ventricles are paralysed and not tetanic when death occurs under the influence of digitalis. Nevertheless the fact need not shake our faith in digitalis as a muscle stimulant, inasmuch as with most active drugs the excessive action is the opposite in nature from the feeble and moderate, and " stimulation followed by para- lysis " is an oft-told tale in descriptions of the effects of poisons. When we overdo the effects of digitalis it is paralysis and not spasm of the heart that we must apprehend, but, most fortunately, in one sense digitalis is the safest of poisons inasmuch as it gives to the observant prolonged and emphatic warning when it is being pushed too far. This, however, is absolutely true of cases in which rest in bed is insisted upon. When digitalis is given to patients "going about," as the phrase is, it must be given in exceedingly small dose and— what is more important even—in short courses. That is to say, the drug must be intermitted for several days between each course, for its effects take a considerable time to pass off. There are few drugs, however, that in their administration require so much carefulness on the part of the practitioner as digitalis. It is necessary, there- fore, that we should consider the mode of appli- cation of the remedy in some detail, for misused it becomes a dangerous poison—peculiarly dangerous in the fact that the symptoms of poisoning may readily be overlooked 2mtil the sudden lethal termination of the case, and in that the patient may be poisoned ivithout ever having taken a single dose beyond that rightly laid down by authority as safe. The drug is " cumulative," as it is termed; its toxic effects are developed by 2}rolongation of administration in small and infrerj^uent doses, without the intervention of a pause sufficiently long to permit of the elimina- tion of its influence. In many cases, fortunately, vomiting and abdominal pain give warning of over-action, while the pulse usually becomes slow and often bigeminal or irregular. But the careful practitioner will seldom let the adminis- tration proceed so far as the production of this condition, for he will anticipate and obviate its occurrence. All the official preparations of digitalis are reliable enough, and it is hard to choose between them. The tincture is probably most frequently used, but the infusion seems to be the most active preparation. The powdered leaves are admirable for a method of administra- tion, similar to that to be immediately recom- mended with regard to a French preparation that the writer has used for many years almost to the exclusion of the official preparations. He has, however, employed this preparation simply for the sake of convenience, and not because he believes that it possesses any inherent virtue