HUM 258 Hum.—A soft, low, continuous sound, like that of a spinning top ; such is the venous hum, heard sometimes over a vein, and the amphoric hum, heard over a pulmonary cavity. Humanised Lymph.—Vaccinelymph from the human subject. Humanised iVIiik. -See Infant Veeb- mG {Sterilisation); Milk {Physiological, Huvianis- ing 2^rocedu7'es). Humerus. See Elbow Joint, Injuries AND Diseases ; Fractures {Humerus); Labour, Accidental Complications {Injuries to Foetus during Labour); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Congenital Defects of Humerus, Fractures of Humerus, Operation of Excision of Head of Humerus, etc.). H U mid ity. See Meteorology {Htimidity). Hummun. See Bai,neology {Hot-air Baths). Humoral PatllOiOgry. -S'eeMedicine, History of {Hippocratic School). HumuiUS LupuiUS. <S'ee Hops. Hung'er. 'S'ee Hypnotism {Experimental Phenomena); Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases of {General Symptomatology). Hunterian Chancre.—The hard sore of syphilis, described by John Hunter. See Syphilis {Acqui7-ed, Primary, Pathology op). Hunter's Canal. -S'ee Arteries, Liga- ture of {Ligature of the Femoral Artery). Hunter's Method. »S'ee Aneurysm {Treatment, Ligature at some distance above the sac). Hunting^don's Chorea. .S'eeCnoREA {Hereditary Adult Chorea). Hunyadi Janos Water. See Balneology {Austria, Sulphated Waters). Hutchinson's Teeth.—The notched condition of the jx^-manent teeth seen in heredit- ary syphilis, and first described by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson. See Syphilis {Syphilis in CJiiklren, Hereditary). Hutchinson's Triad.—The term ap- plied by A. Fournier to three of the chief signs of hereditary syphilis, viz. interstitial keratitis, malformations of the teeth, and deafness ; for these were specially described by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, and he showed their frequent coincidence and relationship with hereditary syphilis. Hyaline Cartilage. -See Physiology, Tissues {Cartilage, Varieties). Hyaline Casts. A*ee Nephritis (Chronic, Urine, Characters of); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sediments, Casts, Hyaline). Hyaline Deg^eneration.—A patho- logical change, affective connective tissue, and resembling waxy degeneration (Gr. mAos, glass); it is most frequently met with in the small arteries and capillaries of the spleen, kidney, brain, and spinal cord; and it is characterised by swelling of the tissue elements, which also become translucent, homogeneous, and less easily digested. The hyaline substance is not specially stained by iodine or the aniline dyes ; it resembles keratin in its resistance to chemical agents. It is met with in acute infectious fevers and septica3mia, as well as in chronic toxic states, such as chronic nephritis. It may be an early stage of waxy degeneration, and it is not infrequently followed by calcification. There is a necrotic change in muscle which in some degree resembles hyaline degeneration {e.g. in typhoid fever), but it is not the same process. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Pathology, Morbid Processes, Degenerations); Insanity, Pathology of {Pathological Anatomy, Cerebral Blood - Vessels) ; Lardaceous Degeneration ; Muscles, Diseases of {Degenerations, Hyaline). HyalitiS.—Inflammation of the vitreous humour. See Choroid, Diseases of {Suppurative Choroiditis, Pathology). Hyaloid.—Belonging to the vitreous humour, e.g. the hyaloid membrane or thin fibrous capsule surrounding the vitreous, the hyaloid or central artery of the vitreous which occasionally persists after birth as a malforma- tion. >S'ee Embryology, Human {Embryo in the Sixth Week); Physiology, The Senses (Vision, Dioptric Mechanism). Hyalophag'ia.—The insane desire to chew and swallow glass. Hyaloplasm.—The more homogeneous part of the protoplasm of a cell. See Physiology, The Cell {Movements). Hybrid.—Having a mixed character, e.g. hybrid measles or scarlet fever. See Measles {Aberrant Forms). Hybridism.—The condition of being hybrid, or the production of hybrids; cross- breeding. »S'ee Heredity {Cross-Breeding). Hydatid Disease. Hydatids, Taenia Echinococcus . . 259 Mode of Infection .... 259 Development, etc. ..... 260 Geographical Distribution . . . 262 Anatomical 263 General Symptomatology . . . 263 Special Organs ..... 264