308 HYSTEREXOPEXY Hysterexopexy. — An operation by which the uterus, or more often a tumour growing from it, is drawn through an abdominal incision and fixed there in an extraperitoneal position ; later, the tumour may be removed. Hysteria.. ■— This is described in the following sections:— 1. General Article on Hysteria. 2. Hysteria in Childhood. 3. Surgical Aspects of Hysteria. General Article on Hysteria Definition . . . . . ■ 308 Etiology ...... 308 Symptoms— Attacks of Convulsive Hysteria— Major Attack, Convulsive . . 309 Minor Attack, „ ■ .310 Varieties of Attacks . . .311 Sensory Disorders . . ■ .311 Motor Disorders . . ■ .313 Disorders of Resph'ation . . .316 Disorders of Digestion . . .316 Disorders of Urinary Organs . . 317 Disorders of Organs of Generation . 317 Disorders of Organs of Secretion . 317 Disorders of Circulation and Trophic Troubles 318 Disorders of General Nutrition . . 318 Disorders of the Mental State . . 319 Clinical Forms of Hysteria . . .319 Infantile Hysteria . . . .319 Diagnosis ...... 320 Treatment . . . . . .321 Nature of Hysteria . . . .323 See also Alcoholism (Complications); Ambly- opia (Functional, Hysterical Amblyopia); Ankle- Joint, Region op, Diseases (Hysterical Disease); Asthenopia (Neurasthenic); Athetosis (Dia- gnosis) ; Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth (Nerve-Deafness in Hysteria); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of (Tears and Contusio7is, Diagnosis); Brain, Tumours of (Diagnosis); Catalepsy (Etiology); Cautery (Black Heat); Chest-Wall, Affections of (Pain in the Chest); Chorea (Symptoms); Colour Vision (Acquired, in Hysteria); Deformities (Club Foot, Hysterical Talipes); Diabetes Insipidus (Diagnosis); Dia- phragm (Paralysis, Hysterical); Eclampsia (Diagnosis) ; Fifth Nerve, Affections of (Affections of Taste, HystericC) ; Hemiplegia (Forms, Hysterical); Hiccough ; Hip - Joint, Diseases of; Hypnotism (Therapeutic Uses of); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Etiological Varieties); Joints, Diseases of (Hysterical or Mimetic Affections); K idney. Surgical Affec- tions OF (Symptomatology, Pain); Micturition (Frequency, Causes); Mind, Education of (Hysterical Children) ; Myasthenia Gravis (Diagnosis); Paralysis (Diagnosis); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis (Diagnosis); Purpura (Sytnp- tomatic); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of (Emotional Pigmentation, Hysteria); Sleep, Normal and Morbid (Morbid Dreams); Spasm (Clonic and Hysterical Spasm); Spine, Sur- gical Affections of (Railway Spine); Spine, Surgical Affections of (Caries, Diagnosis); Spine, Surgical Affections of (i/ysieWca^>SpMie); Syphilis (Parasyphilis); Syringomyelia (Dia- gnosis) ; Tabes Dorsalis (Diagnosis); Temper- ature (Hyperthermia, Causes); Tetanus (Dia- gnosis) ; Tetany (Diagnosis); Trades, Danger- ous (Lead Poisoning, Symptoms, Toxic Hysteria); Trades, Dangerous (Bisulphide of Carbon Poisoning, Symptoms resembling Hysteria); Ty- phoid Fever (Complications and Sequelce, Ner- vous System, Hysteria); Vision, Field of (Hy- sterical Peripheral Limitation). Definition.—Hysteria, as its etymology in- dicates (vcrrepa, uterus), was long considered an illness confined to the female sex; the ancients, indeed, regarded it as the result of a disturb- ance of the uterus seeking relief. Modern writers, however, have with one accord dis- credited the uterine theory of the malady. The term hysteria, nevertheless, though denied its original signification, is not on that accoimt to be discarded, for, as Janet says, it has such a singularly interesting history that it would be difficult to replace it. What is hysteria? A precise definition can scarcely be made, as it is not a disease in the ordinary sense, but rather a state of reaction and hypersensibility. If its manifestations are varied, it is no less true that they are all specially allied to affections of the nervous system. Briefly, hysteria is a neurosis of many and perplexing varieties, and of psychic origin, whose disorders often simulate organic disease. Many of the symptoms are variable and merely accidental, others are invariable and form the " stigmata of hysteria." For the sake of lucidity we shall group the symptoms according to the systems or organs of which they indicate functional derangement. Etiology.—The appearance of a symptom of hysteria generally proves that the malady has already existed for some time, though latent. The name of an exciting cause of hysteria is given to any circumstance which sud- denly reveals the malady, but the true cause of the disorder is an hereditary predisposi- tion. If the real cause is single, the exciting causes are numberless. George Guinon, in his thesis, devotes several chapters to them. The moral emotions, fright, grief, anger, and other psychic distui'bances, are the most frequent causes of occasional hysterical affections; and in every walk of life hysterical subjects are equally liable to attacks. Traumatism plays a very important role in its development; it acts in the way of a real suggestion, as much by the nervous shock as by purely physical causes,