10 GYNECOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS IN draw down (and so straighten) the uterus with a volsella, and then, holding the sound in the right hand, simply to allow it to pass into the uterus by its own weight, guiding it with sight and touch combined. {Note.—If the cervical canal be tortuous, or be blocked with a growth {e.g. a fibroid tumour), several attempts may be necessary before the introduction can be accom- plished.) {g) Diagnostic Uses : (1) Condition of os uteri and cervical canal {e.g. atresia, narrowness at external or internal os). (2) Length of uterine cavity {e.g. increased (more than 2i inches) in subinvolution, fibroids, hypertrophy of cervix, endometritis, prolapsus; lessened (less than 2^ inches) in superinvolution, infantile uterus). (.3) Direction of uterine axis {e.g. retroversion, anteversion, lateriversion, especially before curettage). (4) Relation of axis of cervix to axis of body {e.(/. retroflexion and anteflexion). (5) Mobility of uterus. (6) Relation of uterus to abdominal tumours {e.g. if tumour be uterine, its palpation through abdominal wall conveys impulse to the sound). (7) Condition of endometrium {e.g. if there is endometritis the presence of sound will cause pain, and the instrument may be blood-stained when withdrawn). (8) Differential diagnosis between polypus in uterus (when the sound passes to normal dis- tance or farther) and inversion of uterus (when it is arrested inside cervix). (9) To aid the student in learning the bimanual (under teacher's supervision). {Note.—When, after meeting with resistance, the sound suddenly passes in for a distance of some inches, either — (1) perforation of the uterine wall has occurred; or (2) the instru- ment has passed along a Fallopian tube ; or (.3) a sudden state of uterine inertia with enlarge- ment of the cavity has developed.) (//) Therapeutic Uses : (1) Reposition of displaced movable uterus (especially in retroversion); comparatively rare now, as bimanual reposition is more practised. (2) Rectification of a flexion (requires care, and sound has to be specially (sharply) curved). (3) Dilatation of narrow os or cervical canal, especially in cases of poorly developed uterus, with scanty and painful menstruation. (4) Making applications (caustic) to endo- metrium, the sound being dressed with cotton wool (Playfair's probe serves better) after curettage. (i) Estimate of Present Value of Sounu : since the bimanual method of examination has been perfected and commonly practised, the use of the sound has become more resti'icted ; but it is still of value when it is difiicult to define the outlines of the uterus, and especially of its fundus, by the bimanual alone; in combination with the bimanual it is of great assistance in enabling the gynecologist to educate himself to the significance of the sensation conveyed to his fingers. (IV.) Uterine Curette {see also Curettage). {a) Historical No'J'e : introduced by Recamier, in 1850, for the purpose of scraping away fungosities from the interior of the uterus; Sims used it for same purpose (1865) after previous dilatation with a sponge tent; in 1874 Thomas invented his dull wire curette, and Munde in 1878 popularised its use and em- phasised its value in diagnosis rather than in treatment; since 1878 its sphere of usefulness has been greatly widened, and it is now more used in treatment than in diagnosis. (6) Description ; many varieties of curette, but it is essentially a metal rod with a loop of wire, or a nail- or spoon-shaped scraping surface at its distal end; it sometimes has a knob on the stem 2-|- inches from the end, to mark the normal length of the uterus; and occasionally it has the handle and stem hollow, so as to allow a stream of fluid to run through it during curettage (" flushing " curette); Martin's curette, or that of Recamier-Roux, is a useful form. (c) Mode of Use : with the patient in the semi-prone or lithotomy position, and under an anjesthetic, the operator passes the Sims' speculum, fixes the cervix with a volsella, and then dilates the cervical canal with Auvai-d's, Hegar's, or Ellinger's dilators, until it is wide enough to allow the curette to pass easily in; he next introduces the curette and scrapes the uterine wall with it (thoroughly if for treat- ment, locally if for diagnosis); the uterine interior can then be washed out, and have a caustic application {e.g. iodised phenol) made to it (on a dressed sound or Playfair probe). Further details are given in the article. Curet- tage, Uterine. {d) Indications : (1) For diagnosis: a scraping from the interior of the uterus being obtained for micro- scopic examination, as in cases where the diagnosis between endometritis and carcinoma, sarcoma, and chorion-epithelioma of the uterus is in doubt. (2) For treatment: in a large number of morbid states, but chiefly in (a) retained pro- ducts of conception, setting up lucmorrhage or sepsis, (/3) endometritis, especially the hyper- trophic form, (y) some infective states of the uterus (septic and gonorrhceal), (8) utei'ine cancer (as a ,'palliative in non-opei-able cases), (e) hysterectomy for uterine tumours (as a preparatory stage in the operation), and {() rarely in uterine fibroids (for the haemorrhage). {e) Dangers: these are (1) production of abortion, (2) introduction of sepsis, (3) perfora- tion of uterus, (4) subsequent obliteration of