435 INFLUENZA ment of the spleen be added, the diagnosis between true enteric fever of a severe type and the enteric or typhoid form of influenza becomes most difficult. Widal's test for enteric fever may help the physician to a correct opinion. Finkler points out that in these cases the anorexia and accompanying gastric symptoms may last for weeks after the influenza has de- clined, so that a notable loss of flesh and even a grave cachexia may take place. The liver is rarely much affected in influenza. It may, however, be the seat of congestion or of a parenchymatous degeneration, such as occurs in other acute toxaemias. Marked jaundice is also rare, though an icteric tinge of the conjunctivae is often seen. Dr. Baumler of Freiburg met with slight jaundice so fre- quently that he regarded it as a valuable diagnostic symptom of influenza. Still he admits that he could not demonstrate the presence of bile pigments in the urine, and the " jaundice " was confined to a yellow coloration of the sclera. The Nervous System. — "There is hardly a nervous symptom in existence," says Finkler, " which has not been observed in influenza." He proceeds to instance headache, backache, neu- ralgia, myalgia, hypersesthesia and anaesthesia of the cutaneous nerves, vertigo, insomnia, de- lirium, syncope, debility, post-grippal neuras- thenia, hysteria, and hystero-epilepsy, coma (so that the malady resembles the sleeping sickness or noma of the West Coast of Africa), chorea, singultus, yawning, tetanoid spasms, and local paralyses. For these various nervous phenomena Finkler believes that we must seek an explana- tion in the action of some soluble toxin. He further believes that they are all purely func- tional disturbances, basing the opinion on the facts (1) that the combination of nerve symptoms with atrophy was not sufficiently marked to justify a diagnosis of anatomical changes in the nerves themselves; (2) that recovery has fre- quently resulted in such cases with astonishing rapidity ; and (3) that drugs such as phenazone, salipyrin, or quinine frequently caused a change for the better, or even a perfect cure so suddenly "that the diagnosis of a functional nervous dis- turbance was forced upon us ex juvantibus." It must not be supposed that organic lesions of the nervous system are unknown in connection with influenza. Far from it. In the first place, this is one of the diseases of which the toxin damages the nerves. Peripheral neuritis, shown by pain, paraesthesise, and paralysis, may be present locally or as a multiple neuritis (peri- pheral polyneuritis). Or "nuclear paresse," as Leichtenstern well terms them, may arise from lesions of the motor nuclei of the third and fourth cerebral ventricles caused by the toxins of influenza. Apoplectiform seizures have occasionally hap- pened. In 1890 Leichtenstern reported eight instances, to which he afterwards added four more. The cerebral paralysis of influenza may show itself as a monoplegia or as a hemiplegia, and may be complicated by delirium, convulsions, and coma. This group of symptoms is probably due to microbic embolism of the vessels of the pia mater, similar to what may be observed in cases of epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis and of ulcerative or malignant endocarditis. Fiir- bringer has reported two cases of grave organic cerebral affections following influenza, in which large haemorrhagic foci in the brain were found after death. Similar focal diseases of the brain have been recorded by Bristowe, who observed five cases in which the preceding influenza was looked upon as the etiological factor in the encephalitic process (Finkler). In 1897 Pfuhl reported three cases of what he believed to be localisations of influenza bacilli in the brain. As these bacilli are now known to be capable of exciting suppuration, they may be the cause of primary pui'ulent changes in the brain; or secondary purulent foci may residt by meta- stasis from suppuration in the ear, frontal sinus, antrum, nose, or tonsil. Purulent meningitis may be brought about in precisely the same way in or after influenza. At the same time Krannhals of Riga has observed a number of cases which clinically resembled an undeveloped cerebro-spinal meningitis, but which at the autopsy showed only excessive hyperaemia of the pia mater. In every such instance there was pneumonic infiltration of the lower lobes of the lungs. In quoting this observation, Finkler says : " It is of extreme importance to remem- ber that we may have these marked meningitic symptoms, such as great fever, apathy, sopor, stiffness of the neck, strabismus, inequality of the pupils, grinding of the teeth, hyperaesthesia, bradycardia, and intermittent respiration, with- out any lesions whatever of meningitis." Organic affections of the spinal cord are, according to Finkler, rare in influenza. Symp- toms referable to a disseminated myelitis have been observed by Benno Herzog. Revilliod reports the case of a young girl who, after a relapse, became totally paraplegic, with symp- toms of spastic spinal paralysis. The typical symptom-complex of Brown-Sequard's paralysis (hemiparaplegia with hemianaesthesia of the opposite side) was observed by Determann in a man aged 25. Acute ascending paralysis (Landry's palsy) has been described by Fereol and Laveran; acute anterior poliomyelitis by Teissier, Henoch, and Drashe. Apart altogether from the brain disturbances, whether functional or organic, which have just been detailed, are the mental affections of in- fluenza. The disturbances of the mind, or pyschoses, which attend or follow this strange malady, are countless in number and in variety. They form one of the most distressing, because one of the most intractable, features of the