323 HYSTERIA tracture has disappeared i-etraction is observed ; surgical treatment of these retractions should not be used, otherwise there may be a return of the contracture. Among the visceral disorders of hysteria it is important to notice anorexia, as it is one which may endanger the life of the subject. Its proper treatment is complete isola- tion. The feeding tube ought not to be used, except as a last resource, for the patient may become habituated to it. The patient must be forced to eat even by threats, and there must be no yielding as to the kind or quantity of food to be taken. Nature of Hysteria The question of the nature of hysteria is singularly complicated and difficult to treat. Although the subject has attracted the attention of numerous writers, it cannot yet be said that everything is clear with regard to the explana- tion of its phenomena. The ancients—Democrates, Plato, and Hippo- crates—regarded this neurosis as taking origin in the uterus. Hippocrates defined it as " a ' suffocation' of the uterus which rises to the heart, to the liver, to the hypochondriura, to the loins ; when it comes to the liver it produces suffocation, intercepting the respiratory path which is in the belly. . . . These symptoms occur especially in spinsters and in widows who, being young and having had children, remain in expectancy. It is best that they become preg- nant ] as for the maid, she should be advised to marry." In these words the doctrine of the uterine origin of the disease and its treatment by marriage, which has been so strongly adhered to, is formulated for the first time. Galen, although admitting the possibility of hysteria in the male, associates this malady none the less with disorders of the uterus. He no longer believes, it is true, in the rising of the uterus towards the hypochondrium, but he re- gards the symptoms of hysteria as dependent on displacements of the uterus (antero-version, retroversion, etc.), and on retention of the menses resulting in a general intoxication of the organism. Later, during the Middle Ages, the views of Galen were accepted as facts. Cases of hysteria were not uncommon, and the written and illus- trated records from this epoch which remain reproduce pictures in which the features of hysteria are readily recognised. Under the in- fluence of predominant religious ideas, the hysterical subject was regarded as a sorcerer or as one possessed of the devil. The stigmata of hysteria were the " signs of the devil," and the sole therapeutic measure employed was exorcism. Thus, far from making progress, the explanation of the phenomena of hysteria be- came more and more obscure. In the eighteenth century the uterine theory is reverted to. Hoffmann attributed hysteria to a spasmodic contraction of the uterus; nearer the present time, Lonzer Villemag in 1802, and Landouzy in 1846, regarded hysteria as the consequence of uterine trouble. In our own time certain writers, if they do not admit the uterine, still maintain the sexual origin of the disease. Certain surgeons, few in number it is true, do not hesitate in severe cases of hysteria to remove the ovaries in the female and the testicles in the male. The results of these more than doubtful operations do not give support to the sexual theory. Cases have been recorded where true symptoms of hysteria have developed in nervous females who have under- gone such treatment on account of local disease. The theory which considers hysteria as a nervous disorder which may develop in the male as well as in the female is of relatively recent date. It is to Sennert (1572-1637) and to Charles Lefrois that we owe the conception of hysteria as a disease of the nervous system, a conception still very vague and very erroneous, since the last-named author attributed its symptoms to the presence of a collection of fluid within the head. It is none the less a step forward towards the humoral theory of Sydenham, who has given a perfect clinical description of the disease ; for he regarded hysteria as a consequence of debility of the nerves, of impoverishment of the fluids, of a disturbance of the esprits animaux. In the nineteenth century the nervous theory of hysteria gained ground through the works of Georget, Brachet, and Briquetait. " Hysteria," says Brachet, " is a neurosis of the central nervous system, which declares itself more or less suddenly in attacks of general clonic con- vulsions and by the sensation as if a ball were rising in the a3sophagus, at the lower part of which it settles, threatening suffocation." As one sees by this definition, the author has only recognised the convulsive form of hysteria. Through Briquetait the qiiestion expanded and the nervous theory evolved. He sought to explain not only the transient convulsive pheno- mena, but also the persistent symptoms; he showed the part which the emotions play in the disease. " To me," he says, " hysteria is a neurosis of the brain, the symptoms of which consist in perturbation of the vital acts which serve to manifest the affections and the passions." This conception is an advance towards the theory by which hysteria is regarded as a cere- bral disease, a disorder of the mind. The credit of showing the important part which is played by the " fixed idea" in the production of the various symptoms of the neurosis, more parti- cularly in traumatic hysteria (paralysis, con- tractures, etc.), is due to Charcot. He demon- strated the possibility of producing hysterical phenomena by suggestion, and emphasised the existence of a mental state peculiar to these patients. He also confirmed from the practical side the theory which regards hysteria as a