Recherche . . . ENTREES . . A COLLECTION OF THE LATEST AND MOST POPULAR DISHES. BY C. HERMAN SENN, Author of “ The New Century Coohery Book," “ Practical Gastronomy,” “ French Menus,” ” Recherche Side Dishes,” ” RechercJie Lunch and Dinner Sweets,” "Breakfast and Supper Dishes,” "Ices and How to Make Them,” "Eggs and Omelets,” "A Book of Salads,” "Chafing-dish and Casserole Cookery,” etc. etc. London: The Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, Westminster, S.W.Co!i. ‘ wefMOms<j Calf No. i arCONTENTS. PAGE Entrees, Introductory Chapter ... ... ... 7 Light Entrees ... ... ... ... 15 Some Vegetable Entrees and Farinige Dishes ... 36 A Selection of Fish Entrees .1. ... ... 56 Entrees of Veal ... ... ... ... 69 Entrees of Beef ... ... ... ... 89 Entrees of Lamb and Mutton ... ... ... 104 Entrees of Poultry ... ... ... ... 119 Entrees of Game ... ... ... ... 148 Sauces and Auxiliaries ... ... ... 173 List of Illustrations ... ... ... ... 191 193 General Index4, Lloyd’s Avenue, London, E.C. Mark the Economy. ■j-teaspoonful of L E M C O makes a breakfast cup of deli- cious strengthening bouillon— 16 breakfast cups in a 2-oz. jar. It goes just as far in cooking. LEMCO”5 Preface. The recipes collected in the present volume represent the newest and most popular Entrees of the present time, and the dishes described are of the highest type of the Continental cuisine. This work, although extensive, must not be regarded to embrace the entire branch of this important course of the culinary art, but rather as supplementary to, or in advance of, the chapters devoted to Entrees in regular standard works on cookery. As explained in the first part of the book. Entrees form the most important part of a correctly planned and well governed Dinner, and as this course has of late years been considerably modified, a greater variety of dishes are now admitted under this particular heading. The up-to- date chef will, therefore, have a much wider scope for these dishes. The most noteworthy dishes dealt with have been demonstrated by me at the National Training School of Cookery during the last and present season, and every recipe given has been actually prepared and tested by me, so that there should be no fear of failure, provided the directions are carefully followed. In compiling the recipes, I have endeavoured to explain the method of preparing each dish as clearly and6 concisely as possible, in order that any cook possessing the necessary rudimentary knowledge should be able to carry out the directions without great difficulty. Every recipe is complete in itself, and cross references, so common in many cookery books, have as much as possible been avoided. A special feature has been made of the illustrations given, which are taken from actual photographs of the dishes made according to the recipes. It will be noticed that the decorations and garniture suggested in the various dishes, and more especially those for “ cold service,” are all edible and wholesome. Over- decoration and extravagance in the use of materials, especially purely ornamental decorations, have been rigidly excluded. At the same time, elegance as well as excellence, so essential in dishes of this description, has been aimed at in every case. London, April, 1907.1 ENTRE-COTES GRILLES EDOUARD VII. [p. lOI.) PETITS PAINS DE MAUVIETTES [P- 103.)7 Entrees, INTRODUCTION. Dishes following the fish course or preceding the Remove, when such is served, are called Entrees. The literal translation of the word into English would be “ Entrance ” ; and as a matter of fact the dishes served under this heading are considered by the Epicure as preparatory, or introductions to the more serious part of the dinner. Entrees are, however, generally looked upon as the most essential part of a dinner. There is much to be said for this, inasmuch as there may be dinners without Hors-d’CEuvre, even without Soup, and without a Remove or Releve, but there can be no well balanced dinner without an Entree course. Entrees are defined as “ Dressed Dishes,” or “ Made Dishes.” A dish bearing the name Entree is as a rule composed of more than one ingredient, as distinguished from solid meats served with a garnish. It has been said that a plain cook’s idea of an Entree for special occasions is generally a sweetbread or chicken coated with a gluey-looking brown or white sauce, and a few truffles, some tinned mushrooms, or macedoine badly heated, and for ordinary occasions a Rechauffe of meat or poultry dish of some kind. The Entree course affords immense scope for the talents of a chef, who is often able to prepare Entrees from materials which might otherwise be insipid and unattractive. It is not too much to assert that upon the Entree courseRecherche Kntrees. 8 of a well balanced dinner depends largely the success of the meal. It therefore becomes a matter of great importance that the dishes served under this heading should be well thought out and prepared with the greatest possible care. Of late years, the term Entree has been modified and has in some respects undergone an entire change. Dishes that used to be served as hot Hors-d’CEuvre and even as Releve are now often given a place under the Entree course. In bygone days Entrees were served in conjunction with the joints as so-called “ side dishes,” but now these form a distinct course, and one of considerable im- portance. Some people are under the erroneous impression that by Entrees some sort of Ragout is meant. A white or brown Ragout of meat or poultry may, of course, be included as Entrees, but it by no means follows that these are the only dishes called by that name. Many simple Entrees can be, and are, with ad- vantage and economy, prepared from cold meats, poultry or game, from which excellent and tasty as well as dainty dishes are produced. In such cases great care must be taken by the cook to supplement the exhausted juices of such meat, poultry or game which has already been once cooked. This can only be done by careful manipulation and application of the required heat, and by the use of some good and rich stock or sauces, otherwise the dishes will scarcely be worthy of the name Entree, for they will neither be nourishing nor appetising.9 Entrees. Another point that needs attention in the matter of Entrees made from cold viands is the dressing and gar- nishing. These dishes, if they are to be successful, need just as much care and attention as those made from fresh materials. Fricassees, blanquettes, hashes, salmis, mirotons, cannelons, croquettes, cromesquis, rissoles, crepinettes, darioles, timbales, quenelles, souffles, bouchees, casso- lettes, friandines, and similar preparations, come under this particular heading. Sauces.—The great secret in regard to Entrees lies undoubtedly in the sauces used for their preparation or for their accompaniment. These sauces must be rich and carefully prepared. Compound or long-process sauces, foundation sauces and their offsprings, play a most important part in Entrees as well as in their rela- tion to the dishes which precede and follow them. When two Entrees are chosen for a dinner, the first should be made the lighter of the two. All light Entrees should be made in fancy style and dressed in small por- tions, it is also desirable that any possible carving should be avoided. Entrees are not as a rule carved or served from the sideboard. Dishes known as Fish Entrees, excepting in the case of cold dishes, are only supposed to be served as Entrees during Lent. There are a number of vegetable preparations and “ Farinage ” dishes which are being frequently introduced as light, i.e., first Entrees. The Entree course is divided into two classes, the hot and cold service. The hot dishes may be subdivided again into two classes, the light and the solid Entries, orRecherche ~Enirees, lO those which are served with a sauce, and such which are served without a sauce, which is frequently the case with light Entrees. There are a large number of Entrees composed of slices of meat, sauteed, fried, grilled, broiled, or braised, dressed plainly with a good sauce, or if applicable with a dainty vegetable garnish. This garnish and sauce may also be applied to Removes (Releves) ; these, however, differ from Entrees inasmuch as in the former case the pieces are dressed small, whilst in the latter they usually consist of a boned joint, which is served whole. On the other hand there are other dishes of a more elaborate kind, both in preparation and garnish. All these come under the heading of Hot Entrees, solid, otherwise known as the small hot meats garnished, such as cutlets, Fillets, Grenadins, Escallops, Tournedos, large Pates, Sweetbreads, Fricandeaux, Ragouts, Fricassees, Boudiils, Quenelles, Salmis, Compotes, Timbales, etc., etc. Cold Entries.—This is known as the Cold Service. It is the most elegant and most artistic branch in Cookery in general, especially so when large dishes for special occasions are to be prepared, such as is the case for ball suppers, banquets, wedding breakfasts, grand buffets, etc., where the moulding or ornament in wax, fat, rice, etc., is at times required. Flowers, figures, etc., are occasionally introduced in a great variety. A great deal of skill and study is required for this branch of the art, which of late has, as before stated, been considerably modified, so much so that socles of wax and fat are no longer in vogue. This does not imply that no decora- tion is needed, so long as it is of an edible character.n. MEDAILLONS DE VOLAILLE. {P- 130.) PETITS SOUFFLES DE SAUMON GAULOISE. (/>• 58.)II Entrees, Any cook of ordinary intelligence may, by careful study, become an expert in decorating moulds, etc., provided he or she will give it the study and attention it requires, so as to fully develop some artistic taste and ideas. Some suggestions of ornamenting small or large moulds are given on pages 13 and 14, which will be helpful to many who wish to adopt simple and yet effective designs. Various kinds of sauces known as Chaudfroid sauces, and aspic jelly, aspic creams, etc., are brought largely into use for all cold Entrees. Such preparations or their adjuncts must be prepared with great care ; they must be made tasty, and on no account be made too stiff. The aspic especially should be well flavoured, limpid, and above all transparent and clear ; for if there be any defect in this, then the handsomest pieces are open to criticism, and very justly so. In any cold Entree, the cook’s special aim, next to the proper cooking of the articles, must be that of rendering the dish or the dishes an effective appearance ; this can only be done by introducing tastefully and pleasingly arranged designs in the decorations. When croutons of rice, bread, etc., are used, they should be cut with pre- cision and taste. Some kind of symmetrical design should be aimed at. Hatelets or Skewers.—Hatelets, silver skewers, orna- mented with fancifully cut vegetables, truffles, mush- rooms, etc., and aspic garnishing, come largely into use with hot or cold dishes. These add greatly to the effective appearance of any dish, cold as well as hot. The number of other dishes, less elaborate than thoseRecherche Entrees. 12 just named, is also very large. These, although smaller, require just as much care and attention, because in a sense they are equally important. It is well to remember that, in preparing cold dishes, plenty of time should be allowed to do them beforehand. This kind of work should never be hurried, nor left over to be finished at the last moment. The Selection of Entries for a Dinner. The choice of Entrees and their preparation must on no account clash with either the Fish, Remove or Roast, nor must the sauces served with either be the same or similar in appearance or flavour. When a hot and a cold Entree is served for a meal, the hot Entree must be served first and the cold last. Again, an Entree com- posed of small birds (game) usually goes before a dish prepared from a large bird (poultry) or large meat. The sauce for such dishes (hot) is always served on the dish and not separately ; unless the dish will not hold suffi- cient sauce to go round the table, then some of the sauce may be handed round in a sauce-boat. In the case of light Entrees, with some exceptions, the sauce is, as a rule, handed round separately, a little sauce is often poured over the dish just to sauce it, or as it is termed in culinary French, to nape. It depends entirely upon the fish as to whether a white or a brown Entree should take the lead, and this naturally depends in a great measure upon the kind of dishes selected. If the Remove be a white meat it is best to serve the white Entree first, that is if there be two—a white and a brown Entree, so as to prevent two dishes ofEntrees, 13 a similar kind in colour following. All Entrees should, as already stated, be handed round at table and not served from the sideboard. When light Entrees are served, or when two or even three Entrees are included in the same menu, the dishes should on no account be substantial enough to entirely satisfy the hunger of the diner, they should then be more or less in the form of relishes, so as to stimulate the appetite for the more heavy or substantial dishes which are to follow. The service of Entrees should never be hurried at a dinner, so as to allow each guest ample opportunity to eat of any or all the dishes served under this heading. SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR DECORATING MOULDS.Recherche Entrees. 14 Schemes for Decoration.—The suggested decorations on this and the previous page are especially suitable for small timbales, darioles, parfaits, pains, mousses, or souffles, cold as well as hot. Truffles, hard-boiled whites of egg, green peas, pistachio kernels, pimientos, chillies, cucumber, cooked ham or tongue, and other edible and suitable ingredients may be used for this purpose. All of which must be cut into thin slices or so shaped as to suit the style of decorative design which may be decided upon.15 Light Entrees. Dominos ^ la Rochelais (Cold). Line i doz. small domino moulds with a very thin layer of white aspic jelly (made with chicken or veal stock). Decorate with dots of truffles to represent dominoes. Upon this put a thin layer of mayonnaise cream (see Sauces), and let it set on the ice. ^ Pound in a mortar 4 oz. of cooked ox tongue, when smooth, add i table-spoonful anchovy paste and 2 table- spoonfuls of double cream ; incorporate also about J gill of chicken or veal aspic. Season with paprika and mignonette pepper, and rub all through a fine sieve. Spread the prepared puree thinly on to a tin, and place on the ice to set. Next stamp out the required number of domino-shaped slices, and fix them by means of a little liquid aspic into the prepared moulds. In a similar way cut very thin slices of black bread (Pumpernickel), which must be cut to the exact size of the dominoes. Unmould the shapes, and place each on a slice of black bread. Have ready some very finely shredded and seasoned Batavia salad or Belgian endive, in the form of a bed on a round fiat dish. Dress the dominoes on this and serve. Timbale Turinoise. (Macaroni and Ham Timbale.) J lb. macaroni (boiled), 4 oz. cooked ham, 4 oz. ox- tongue, 6-8 preserved mushrooms, i oz. grated Par- mesan cheese, i teaspoonful finely grated lemon rind, demi-glace or Madere sauce, J lb. cooked chicken or rabbit meat, i oz. butter, i gill white sauce, J gill cream, 2 eggs, salt, pepper and nutmeg.Recherche Kntrees. i6 Line a well buttered pudding basin with the macaroni. Do this carefully so that the shape resembles a beehive when turned out. Cut the remainder of the macaroni into short pieces. Cut all the meats into julienne strips or shreds, also the mushrooms. Put these in a stewpan with the butter, stir till hot, add the grated cheese, the white sauce, and the cream, heat up well without allow- ing it to actually boil, then stir in the eggs, previously beaten, and continue to stir over the fire until the mix- ture begins to set. Season to taste with salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and the lemon rind. Fill the lined mould with this, cover with a piece of buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook in a brisk oven for about 45 minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour round some hot demi-glace or Mad^re sauce and serve. Tartelettes de Ris de Veau aux Trufles. (Sweetbread Tartlets with Truffles.) I large or 2 small sweetbreads, i gill Supreme or Alle- mande sauce, i table-spoonful grated Parmesan cheese, J oz. butter, \ pint rich stock, 8 preserved mushrooms, J lb. puff paste, 2 truffles, bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Blanch, trim and cook the sweetbread in the stock till tender ; the stock must be rich and well flavoured with vegetables. When done, take up, cut into dice shapes, and put it in a stewpan with the mushrooms and truffles cut into small dice or slices. Season with a little pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, then add the sauce (hot), and keep hot till required. Line some small round bouche moulds with puff paste, prick the bottom of each to prevent blistering whilst baking, fill them with rice or dried peas (uncooked), and bake them in a hot oven to aCANETON A LA ROUENNAISE. {p. 138.) Ill COTELETTES DE HOMARD A l’AMERICAINE. {p. 64.)17 Light Entrees. golden colour. When done take out the rice, unmould them, and fill the paste crusts with the sweetbread ragout. Sprinkle over the top of each some grated cheese and a few bread-crumbs, also a little melted butter. Just before serving put them in a sharp oven for a few minutes, then serve. Poulpetons de Rognons a la Parmentier. (Kidney Shapes in Potato Border.) 3 to 4 sheeps’ kidneys, i shallot, J glass Marsala, a little chopped parsley, seasoning, sharp tomato sauce, 6 champignons, \ oz. butter, 2 table-spoonfuls espagnole sauce. For border : 3 medium-sized potatoes and fry- ing fat. For bouches lining : 2 oz. choux paste, 6 oz. pounded chicken meat, panurette crumbs, 2 egg yolks, I table-spoonful cream, salt, and nutmeg. Skin and slice the kidneys very finely, also slice the mushrooms, peel and chop the shallot, fry the latter a little in the butter (i oz.), put in the kidneys, and toss (saute) them for some minutes over a quick fire. Next add the wine and the espagnole sauce, season to taste, and cook quickly for a few minutes. Lastly add the chopped parsley, and keep till wanted. Prepare a chicken mix- ture in this way : pound and sieve the chicken meat, mix it with choux paste, stir vigorously over the fire in a stewpan, adding the cream and yolks of eggs, then season to taste. Butter 12 small bouche or egg moulds, sprinkle them with panurette crumbs, and line them with the prepared forcemeat, nearly fill each with stewed kidneys, etc., and cover well with more chicken mixture. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and bake in the oven for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile peel and slice very thinly three potatoes, cut the slices into very fine julienne or straw strips, soak ini8 Recherche Rntrees. water for a time, and drain well on a cloth. Pack these loosely in a wire border mould, place the lid on it, and plunge into very hot fat for about three minutes, then remove ; let the fat get hot again, and plunge in a second time until the potatoes acquire a pale brown colour. Take up, drain, remove lid, and turn the potato border on a hot dish, sprinkle with salt ; dress the poulepetons in the centre, pour a little tomato sauce round the dish, and send remainder to table in a sauce-boat. Petites Timbales a la R^gence (Cold). (Foie-gras and Ham Timbales.) 2 oz. small macaroni, \ gill white sauce (bechamel or velout^), I small terrine foie gras, 3-4 slices cooked ham, i gill cream, aspic, salt, paprika and pimientos for decoration. Cook the macaroni till tender in salted water, drain and let cool. Mask the inside of 8 or 10 small timbale or plain dariole moulds with aspic, cut some of the macaroni into small rings, and place them neatly in the bottom of each mould ; in the centre of each ring put a tiny round of red pimiento. Cut some even lengths of the remainder of macaroni to fit them closely to the sides of the moulds in the same manner as a charlotte. Stamp out thinly cut rounds of lean ham to fit the bottoms of the moulds, dip each in aspic and place them. Chop the remainder of ham, then pound with the foie gras in a mortar till quite smooth ; add the sauce and cream, and season to taste with aromatics, paprika, etc. Rub this farce through a fine sieve, and incorporate a little aspic to make the mixture set. Fill the moulds with this, and place them on the ice. Unmould the timbales, and range them on a fiat entree dish, garnish to taste, and serve.19 Light Entrees. Petits Souffles ^ la Bayonne (Cold). (Small Ham SoufH6s.) 8 to 10 oz. cooked lean ham, i gill rich Madeira sauce, ij gills aspic jelly, J pint cream, i slice ox-tongue, seasoning. Cut the ham into small slices, and pound till smooth in a mortar ; add the brown sauce gradually, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt the aspic and whisk it over the ice till it begins to set, then stir into the ham mixture. Season to taste with pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of ground mace. Whip the cream till stiff, and work into the mixture. Continue whisking for some minutes, then fill up some small souffle cases (or silver casseroles). Place a star-shaped slice of tongue on top of each and put them in a charged ice cabinet for two hours. Dish up, and serve. Cassolettes d la Strasbourgeoise. (Small Goose Liver Cassolettes.) 6 oz. puff paste or short crust paste, i small terrine foie gras freed from fat, \ teaspoonful meat glaze or Lemco, \ gill aspic, J gill whipped cream, a few slices of cucumber and red chillies for garnish, seasoning. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds and line with them 8 or lo very small tartlet moulds ; prick the paste with the prongs of a fork to prevent blistering while baking, and fill the moulds with dry peas or raw rice. Bake them in a moderate oven until the paste acquires a golden brown colour. Take out the peas or rice, unmould and stand the paste crusts on a sieve to cool. Pound the foie gras, freed from fat, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the foie-gras puree in a small basin, incorporate the aspic and meat glaze, stir till it begins to set, then add the whipped cream and seasoning (pepper and salt). Put this preparation in a20 Recherche Entrees. savoy or forcing bag with a rose tube and fill the paste crusts with it. This must be done with taste and care. Scallop the edges of the cucumber slices and place them neatly round each other and put a star-shaped slice of red chilli in the centre of the cream. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, and serve. Petites Bombes ^ la Milanaise. J lb. chicken, game, veal or rabbit, 4 table-spoonfuls white or brown sauce, i dessert-spoonful chopped truffle trimmings or peelings, i oz. panade, 3 yolks and i white of egg, I oz. butter, i table-spoonful sherry or Madeira wine, 2 oz. cooked macaroni, seasoning, Perigord or tomato sauce. Cut up the meat, which must be freed from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade, eggs, and sauce. Season to taste with salt, pepper and aromatic spice, mix in about half an ounce of butter, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter some small bombe or timbale moulds, line them all over with short tips of cooked macaroni (these must be cut about an eighth of an inch thick). Stand the mould on the ice to set, then fill them with the above prepared farce. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about half an hour. Take up, unmould, and arrange the bombes on a hot entr4e dish, pour some hot tomato or Perigord (truffle) sauce over, and serve. Parfait de Foie Gras (Cold). Use a fine firm goose liver, insert small cube-shaped pieces^of truffle, and poach in sherry (with mirepoix) in the^oven^(twenty-five to thirty minutes). Set in aspic in a suitably shaped terrine, decorate the top with truffles,IV. {P 132.) TIMBALES DE VOLAILLE. ROTHSCHILD, QUENELLES DE CANARD A LA BULGARIENNE. [p. I42.)21 Light 'Entrks. etc., and place on ice till wanted for table. May be served in terrine, or turned out and placed on a dish. Beignets de Jambon et Foie Gras. (French Ham Fritters.) 6 to 8 slices of raw ham, i terrine or tin of foie gras pate, parsley, piquante sauce. For frying batter : 2 yolks of egg, 4 oa. flour, about J gill ale, the white of one egg, salt and pepper, \ table-spoonful of sweet oil, frying fat. Cut the ham into rounds with an inch or ijin. cutter. Remove the lard from the foie gras, cut it into similar slices, prepare the frying batter with the above-named ingredients, allow it to stand for some time. Spread a little of the batter with a knife over each slice of ham, place a slice of foie gras between each two, and make up like sandwiches. Dip each sandwich into the batter, and fry in hot fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with quarters of lemon and fried sprigs of parsley. Serve with a well seasoned piquante sauce. Darioles de Foie Gras en Belle-Vue (Cold). (Small Goose Liver Darioles.) Unmould a medium-size terrine of foie-gras pate, free it from fat and cut it into slices, put them in a buttered saute-pan containing a small mirepoix of sliced carrot, onion, a sprig of thyme, and bacon ; cook over a brisk fire for a few minutes, and season with aromatic spice, moisten with a glass of sherry, and allow to get cold. Mask 8 to 10 small dariole moulds with aspic jelly, orna- ment each with fancifully cut slices of truffle. Pound the foie gras with the liquor in a mortar till fine and pass through a hair sieve. Put this in a basin and mix with i table-spoonful of dissolved meat glaze,Recherche Entrhs, 22 and 2 table-spoonfuls of aspic, stand the basin on some crushed ice, and work the mixture with a whisk until it commences to thicken, then add by degrees a little more aspic jelly or very strong veal stock ; last of all, work in about half a gill of whipped cream. Fill up the prepared moulds, and stand them on the ice. Dress the mousses in a circle on a round dish, placing each on a round slice of aspic jelly, fill the centre with cooked asparagus points well seasoned with mayonnaise and aspic. Garnish with triangular-shaped slices of aspic jelly and parsley, and serve. Escalopes de Foie Gras d la Bagration (Cold). (Goose Liver Scallops,' Bagration Style.) I medium-sized preserved goose liver (foie gras), i gill Madeira flavoured aspic jelly, J gill white chaudfroid sauce, J gill concentrated tomato pulp, 2-3 table-spoon- fuls veloute sauce, parsley stalks, 8-10 stoned French olives, a small rice border and cup for centre. Cut the foie gras into conveniently shaped slices, and mask them twice with aspic, place them on a wire tray on the ice ; chop or pound the trimmings finely, season with salt, pepper and aromatic seasoning, and mix with a little veloute sauce, then shape into little ball or marble shapes. Heat up and strain the chaudfroid sauce, pre- viously mixed with tomato pulp reduced with a little glaze. Now coat the balls by dipping them into this preparation and let set on a wire tray. Insert a parsley stalk into each, and keep on the ice till required. Have ready a border shape of rice made with plainly boiled and pounded rice, also a cup shape of rice. Place the border and cup on a round entree dish, and place the foie-gras slices on the border and the little balls on the cup suitably hollowed out for the purpose. GarnishLight 'Entrees, 23 tastefully with halves of French stoned olives stuffed with some of the foie-gras mixture, and serve. Beignets de Volaille. (Chicken Fritters.) Cut some cold roast or boiled chickens into neat pieces, trim them and remove the skin ; put them in a pie-dish, season with pepper and salt and chopped parsley. Moisten with one or two table-spoonfuls of best salad oil, and the juice of half a lemon, cover, and let it stand for about half an hour. Prepare a light frying batter. Drain the pieces of chicken on a cloth, dip each into the frying batter so as to completely cover it, then drop into hot frying fat and fry to a golden brown, take up, drain and dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot or cold. Petits SoujQfl^s de Foies de Volaille. (Chicken Liver SoufI16s.) 12 chicken livers, i oz. butter, salt and pepper, J gill bechamel sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 3 whites of eggs, 4 oz. foie gras, 12 china souffle cases. Clean and wash the chicken livers, wipe and dry them, slice them and fry them in the butter over a quick fire. Add the seasoning and pound this in a mortar with the foie gras. Pass through a fine sieve and incorporate the bechamel sauce and egg yolks, then season to taste. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the above. Three-parts fill about 12 china or silver-plated souffle cases (previously buttered) with the mixture, place them on a baking sheet and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve hot.’Recherche ’Entrees. 24 Ramequins de Poulet. (Chicken Ramakins.) 8 oz. of cooked finely minced chicken free from skin and bone, 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked spinach, a table- spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a hard-boiled egg, and 2 raw yolks of egg, a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, pepper and salt, and a little stock. Chop finety the hard-boiled egg. Rub the spinach through a sieve, mix both with the chicken, parsley and cheese, put all in a stew-pan ; add very little pepper and salt ; moisten with stock, and stir till hot. Then add the raw egg yolks. Butter some small paper or china rama- kin cases, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake about ten minutes in a moderately heated oven. Dish up the cases, garnish with fried crisp parsley and serve. A Petites Cotelettes a TEcarlate. (Chicken and Tongue Cutlets.) About 6 oz. chicken or rabbit meat (raw), i table- spoonful cream, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. panade, 6 slices of cooked ox tongue, 6 cutlet-shaped croutons of fried bread, meat glaze, 6 preserved mushrooms, demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper and butter. Prepare a forcemeat by pounding the chicken or rabbit meat in a mortar, add the cream, panade and yolk of egg, and season to taste. Butter 6 cutlet moulds. Shape each slice of tongue precisely the same size as cutlets, place each slice on a fried crouton of bread. Chop the trimmings of tongue rather finety, put it with the forcemeat, pound again, and rub the whole through a sieve. Chop the mushrooms as finely as possible, and mix with the farce. Fill the moulds with this, and steam them in the oven. When done turn out on to the prepared croutons and tongue, place on a baking sheet, brushCANARD A LA NEMRODE. {P- I 59-) TOURNEDOS A LA SEYMOUR. (/). 94.) ZEPHIRES DE CRABES A LA ROYALE. [P- 59.)i4 ■Light ’Entrees. 25 them over with meat glaze, and put in the oven for a few seconds. Dish up in a circle on a hot dish, sauce over with demi-glace, and serve. Crepinettes de Gibier d la Chasseur. (Game Crepinettes.) J lb. cooked game (freed from skin and bone), i oz. butter, I small shallot, i egg, lemon juice, salt, pepper and nutmeg, i pig’s caul, 6 mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham, I dessert-spoonful flour, a little stock, chopped parsley, fried parsley. Peel and chop the shallot. Mince evenly but not too finely the game meat, ham and mushrooms. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the shallot, and fry a little, then stir in the flour, and cook whilst stirring for a few minutes ; moisten gradually with about i gill stock, let it come to the boil, mix with the chopped meat; add also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice ; bind with the yolk of an egg, season with pepper, salt, and a little grate of nutmeg.* Let it get thoroughly hot, and spread on a plate to cool. Shape the mixture into even-sized oblong cakes ; wrap each carefully in a square of pig’s caul, fasten the ends with a little white of egg, and let them stand a few minutes to set. Place the crepinettes in a well greased grill and broil in front or over a good fire, allowing about six minutes for each side. Dish up and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of piquante or tomato sauce. Note.—Instead of game, chicken, pigeon or duck can be used to prepare this dish. Cassolettes de Gibier. (Cassolettes of Game.) Roll out some rough puff or short crust paste, rather thinly, stamp out some rounds the size of the moulds26 Recherche Entrees. used and line with them 8-io bouche moulds. Fill them with dried peas or rice and bake them in a hot oven a nice light brown colour. Remove the peas or rice and place the cassolette paste crusts on a sieve. Prepare the following mixture (salpicon) : Chop finely 8 oz. of cooked game free from skin and bone, 6 mush- rooms, and 4 oz. cooked bacon. Fry in two ounces of butter 2 chopped shallots, and put in a dessert-spoonful of flour, stir a little and add the chopped meat, season to taste and moisten with a gill of well reduced truffle sauce. Cook for a few minutes and fill the cassolettes. Decorate the top of each with potato or peas puree enriched with cream and egg yolks. Bake in a sharp oven for about 8 minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Petites Bouch^es de Faisan a la Mod^rne. (Small Pheasant Bouch^es.) I lb. mashed potatoes, i gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i truffle, half a cold pheasant, 2 oz. butter, 6 preserved mushrooms, i gill veloute sauce, i gill bechamel sauce, Panurette crumbs, salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. Remove the meat from the pheasant, cut it into small dice, or mince coarsely, put it in a small stewpan to- gether with the mushrooms and the truffle finely chopped and sufficient veloute sauce to moisten, add a small piece of butter, season, and stir over the fire until hot. This forms the salpicon. Rub I lb. of cooked potatoes through a fine sieve, mix them with an ounce of butter and a little cream. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, let the puree get thor- oughly hot, and then add 2 yolks of eggs, and work it well for a few minutes. Butter some small bouche moulds, besprinkle with Panurette, and line them with the potato puree. Place27 Light Entrees, about a dessert-spoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each mould, cover with potato puree, smooth over the top with the blade of a knife, then brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven until of a golden brown colour. Heat up the bechamel sauce, add the remaining ve- loute sauce and egg yolk, stir well over the fire. When hot, finish with a little cream, and add the remaining butter bit by bit and season carefully. Turn out the little shapes on to an entree dish, pour the sauce round, not over them, and serve hot. Note.—Any other kind of meat, such as chicken, duck, goose, rabbit or game, may be used in place of pheasant, and worked up in this manner. Petits Souffles a la Henri IV. (Chicken and Mushroom SoufQds.) 4 oa. cooked chicken meat, oz. flour, 2 whites of eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a little cooked ham or tongue, ij oz. butter, gills good white stock, i oz. cooked ham, a small truffle, 8 large preserved mush- rooms, salt, pepper and cayenne. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour and stir till cooked, but do not let it get brown ; add the stock and stir till it boils, add the yolks of egg, and stir over the fire until thoroughly blended. Chop finely the ham and chicken meat (freed from gristle and skin), and put this to the mixture. Now add the lemon juice and season with salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne ; beat up the whites of egg to a stiff froth, and mix with the above. Fill up some buttered china or paper souffle cases, place a mushroom head on top of each, surrounded with a thin ring of truffle, bake in a moderately heated oven for about 15 minutes. Dish up and serve quickly.Recherche EntrUs. 28 Ravioli ^ la Napolitalne. Farce : 2 oz. cooked chicken, J oz. grated Parmesan cheese, pepper, salt and nutmeg, i table-spoonful cooked spinach, i oz. cooked ham, i egg, a dessert- spoonful of cream, tomato sauce. Pound in a mortar the chicken and ham, when smooth add the yolk of an egg, grated cheese and spinach, season to taste with pepper, salt and nutmeg ; then rub through a fine sieve, and add the cream. Nouilles Paste : 4 oz. flour, a little water or milk, I egg, \ teaspoonful of salt. Prepare a Nouille paste as follows : Sift the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre and break the egg into it. Melt a teaspoonful of salt in a little water or milk, add this to the egg, and work them all well together until a smooth and elastic paste is obtained. Wrap the paste in a cloth, and let it stand for half an hour. Roll out the paste very thinly, and cut it into broad strips about an inch wide. Put some of the prepared forcemeat on these in small heaps, wet round the edges, lay a second strip of paste over, and press well together between the little heaps. Stamp them out with an inch round paste cutter, boil the raviolis in fast boiling water for about ten minutes. Drain them on a cloth, put them on a deep dish, sprinkle over the Parmesan cheese, then pour over some hot tomato sauce, and serve. Mousselines de Ris d’Agneau (Cold). (Lamb’s Bread Mousselines.) Line 8-10 small entree moulds of suitable shape (oval bouche or dariole) with a thin layer of aspic. Decorate the bottom of each with thin slices of truffle and pistachio ; when set, mask the moulds completely with a layer of aspic cream. When this is fairly firm, nearly fill the moulds with a farce composed of finely pounded cold29 Light 'Entrees. braised lambs’ breads, shreds of cooked ham, mixed with cooked green peas and truffle, and moisten this with mayonnaise, before being put into the moulds. Lastly pour a good layer of aspic cream on top, so as to completely fill each mould. Place them on the ice to set, and unmould when required for table. Range the shapes on a neatly decorated foie-gras mousse border, placed in a round entree dish, garnish with small salad, and serve. Friandines de Ris d’Agneau. (Lamb’s Bread Friandines.) \ lb. puff paste, 2 oz. tongue, i truffle, seasoning, 2 lambs’ breads, 6 champignons, J gill Allemande sauce, clarified butter for frying. The Sauce : i gill tomato sauce, i table-spoonful Tarragon vinegar, i French gherkin, J oz. butter. Trim, blanch, and braize the lambs’ breads with a good mirepoix, when done let cool and cut into fine dice. Chop the tongue, mushrooms and truffles rather finely, mix with the lambs’ breads ; and season to taste. Heat up the Allemande sauce, put in the above ingredients, and let them get thoroughly hot, then spread it on a dish and let cool. Roll out the puff paste rather thinly, stamp out as many rounds as are required, using a 2 J-inch paste cutter. Place a dessert-spoonful of the mixture (salpi- con) in the centre of a round of paste, on this put a slice of truffle, wet the edges and place a second round of paste on top ; press the edges together, and continue thus till the mixture and paste are used up. Egg them, and crumb them in a mixture of crushed vermicelli and bread- crumbs, and fry in clarified butter to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce made by chopping the gherkins finely, infuse with the vinegar, and add the tomato sauce ; boil up, skim, season, and send to table in a sauce-boat.30 Recherche Entrees, Ris d’Agneau Braises en Caisses (Cold). (Lambs’ Breads in Cases.) Blanch, press and braise 8 lambs’ breads, let them cool. Make a demi-glace sauce flavoured with the reduced liquor from the braise, and add enough aspic to set it. Trim the breads to the size and shape of the souffle cases ; china or silver cases are best for this purpose. Make a short ragout of artichoke bottoms cut in fine shreds, and seasoned with mayonnaise cream. Put a small table- spoonful of this into each of the souffle cases. Upon this place a lamb’s bread. Put the cases on the ice for a few minutes, then pour over just enough of the pre- pared demi-glace sauce to almost cover the breads. Again put them on the ice so as to set the sauce. Put a fancifully cut slice of truffle in the centre of each bread, decorate round the edge with cooked green peas, and lastly coat with a layer of well flavoured aspic jelly. Cannelons a la N§va. (Cannelons of Lamb’s Bread.) J lb. puff paste trimmings, 2 lambs’ sweetbreads, i gill rich white sauce (allemande or bechamel), 6 mushrooms, I egg, fried parsley, 2 oz. cooked ham, i truffle, bread- crumbs, and seasoning. Roll out the paste, cut it into strips about an inch wide. Butter a number of cornet tins, roll the strips of paste round each tin, so that the strip of paste overlaps half the other at each turn. Keep them all of an even size. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and bake on a greased baking-tin in a hot oven, and remove carefully, whilst hot, the paste shapes from the tins. Blanch and cook the sweetbreads, trim them, cut them into dice, warm up in the sauce, and season with salt and pepper, then add the ham, the mushrooms,31 Light Entrees. and truffles, chopped rather coarsely. Fill the baked pastr}/ cannelons with this mixture. Reheat them in a sharp oven and dish up neatly, arranging them pointed end inwards, put a handful of fried parsley in the centre, and send to table. Crepinettes de Foie de Pore. (Pork Liver Crepinettes.) J lb. pork liver, \ lb. fat ham, a pig’s caul, salt, pepper, nutmeg, J clove of garlic, a dessert-spoonful chopped parsley, i egg, piquante or tomato sauce. Cut the liver and ham into fine shreds, put them on a plate, mix with it the finely chopped garlic, parsley, the yolk of an egg, and season to taste with salt, pepper, nut- meg, and aromatic spice. Plunge the caul into lukewarm water for a few minutes, then spread it out on to a board and cut it into conveniently sized squares. Put a large table-spoonful of the mixture in the centre of each square of caul ; wet the edge with white of egg, fold over and shape neatly into squares. Place the crepinettes on a well buttered baking tin or saute-pan folded sides down- wards. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes, or broil on the grill. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot with a boat of piquante or tomato sauce. Rissolettes d la Solf^rino. J pint of pancake batter, i oz. butter, 4 oz. foie gras (pate with truffles), 4 mushrooms (preserved), i egg, 2 oz. of cooked sweetbread, seasoning, i gill of veloute or bechamel sauce, bread-crumbs, frying fat, about 2 oz. of chicken forcemeat. Fry some very thin pancakes in the butter, stamp some rounds out of them about 2 in. in diameter. Prepare a salpicon as follows : Cut the foie gras.Recherche Entrees. mushrooms, and sweetbread into very small dice. Put this in a saut6-pan with the sauce. When thoroughly hot, add the yolks of egg. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put it on a plate and let cool. When cold, shape it into little balls ; place these in the centre of the rounds of pancake. Put a little raw chicken forcemeat round the edge of each and fold over the same as rissoles. Brush them over with egg, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry in deep fat to a golden colour. Drain the rissolettes carefully and dish them up neatly on a folded napkin and serve hot. Pains de Ris d’Agneau a la St. Germain (Cold). Prepare and cook 8 small timbales of lamb’s bread and green peas (see Ris d’Agneau braises, p. 30). Mask the same number of moulds, similar in shape, but a trifle larger, with a thin layer of aspic decorated neatly with thin slices of hard-boiled white of egg, cooked ham, pimientos, and truffle. Coat again with aspic, and place the moulds on the ice. Unmould the cooked timbales and let them cool. Set each carefully into the prepared moulds, filling the cavities with mayonnaise cream, tinted green with a little spinach puree or spinach greening. When quite set, unmould them and range neatly on a cold dish. Garnish with small cress or endive, and serve. Petites Bouch^es de Concombre a I’lndienne (Cold). (Cucumber Bouch6es.) I large-sized cucumber, i lemon, \ oz. curry powder, a pinch of saffron, 4 oz. cooked chicken, J gill white sauce, 8 small preserved mushrooms, J lb. rice, i oz. butter, I shallot, 2 oz. ham, 2 egg-yolks, J gill cream, seasoning. Cut the cucumber into ij-inch thick slices, and stamp out the rind of each with a fluted cutter. Cut out the inside portion of each with a plain cutter. Blanch theVI. CHARTREUSE d’epERLAN A LA MANDE. {p, 68.) M^DAILLONS EE SAUMON, DIPLOMATE. 57.)VII PAINS DE RIS D AGNEAU A LA ST. GERMAIN, [p- 33-) TIMBALE TURINOISE. {p. I5.\Light Entrees. 33 cucumber shapes in salted water, and drain them on a sieve. Wash the rice, and cook till tender in water containing salt and lemon juice. Drain, and pass half of it through a mincing machine. With this fill 8-10 small patty pans, and set them to cool. Peel and mince the shallot finely, fry it in butter to a golden colour ; add the curry powderrand fry likewise. Chop the ham and chicken finely, and pound both in a mortar, add a pinch of saffron and the necessary seasoning, also the cream ; stir this into the curry with the sauce. Heat up and bind with the yolks of eggs. Place the cucumber shapes in a buttered saute-pan, and fill them with the prepared puree, put a mushroom head on top of each, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for 15 minutes. Unmould the rice shapes, trim them neatly and heat them up ; then range them in a circle on a dish, and dress the cucumber upon them as soon as they leave the oven. Put the remainder of rice (heated) in the centre of the dish and serve. Omelette Princiere. Break and beat up 10 eggs in a basin, season with salt and pepper, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of double cream. Slice and toss in butter 6 cooked new potatoes, mixed with 2-3 slices of finely shredded cooked ham, and keep hot. Make one large or two smaller omelettes in the usual way and fill with the prepared sauteed potatoes. Fold in the ends, and turn out on to a hot dish. Have ready about 12 slices of blanched beef marrow, moistened or glazed with meat glaze, and range them neatly in a row, or as border on or round the omelette, besprinkle with cRcchcrchc Entrees 34 finely chopped parsley and serve with a small quantity of bcarnaise and tomato sauce (blended) poured round the base of the dish. Macaroni a la Rivoli. \ lb. large Naples macaroni, i small terrine of foie gras, I teaspoonful meat glaze, 2 eggs, frying batter and fat to fry. Boil the macaroni in salted water, when done, drain and cool them in cold water. Pound the foie gras free from fat and prepare a light frace made from the foie-gras puree, the meat glaze and the yolk of an egg, all well mixed, seasoned to taste, and rubbed through a sieve. Lay out the macaroni on a cloth to drain, put the farce in a forcing bag with a plain tube, and with it fill the macaroni. Poach them in a little stock in a saute-pan, take up, drain and cool again. Next cut them into 3 in. or longer if wished, egg and crumb them, or dip in frying batter. Fry them in clar- ified fat to a nice golden brown. Take up, drain, and dish up. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Note.—For crumbing use one-third of Panurette, two- thirds of freshly made white bread crumbs, and about a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Saussalis d la Walkow. I lb. of puff or rough puff paste, 3 Frankfort sausages, J lb. sauerkraut. Roll out the puff or rough paste, stamp on the required number of rounds, and line with them eight small plain timbale moulds. Cut the previously cooked sausages into even-sized pieces, short enough to fit into the prepared moulds. Remove the skin, and wrap each piece in sauer-35 Light Kutrees. kraut, then place into the paste-lined moulds. Pour a little stock in each, and cover with a round of paste. Bake them in a moderately heated oven for about 25 minutes. Unmould the shapes carefully, remove the lid, dish up, and force a narrow border of hot spinach puree round the edge of each saussalis. Garnish with crisp parsley and serve hot. It is advisable to add a pinch of paprika or cayenne to the sauerkraut,which will require no other seasoning. Cromesquis a la Russe. (Russian Chicken Kromeskis.) Prepare a salpicon composed of cooked chicken fillet, ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles and white sauce. When set and cold, make up into little rolls ; wrap each in a thin slice of bacon. Dip in frying batter so as to coat each kromeski completely with batter, and fry in hot fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with piquante or tomato sauce.36 Recherche Entrees. Some Vegetable Entrees and Farinage Dishes. Corbeilles aux C6pes. (Pastry Baskets filled with Cepes.) I lb. short crust or puff paste trimmings, J pint jar or tin of preserved cepes (cepes a I’huile or cepes au naturel), 2 oz. lean ham, i shallot, i oz. butter, J teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper and cayenne. Roll out thinly the paste, line lo or more quenelle shell moulds, or else fluted patty tins, fill them with rice and bake to a golden brown in a moderately heated oven. Stamp out some rings of paste, which wiU, when baked and cut in two, form the handles of the pastry cases, thus forming basket shapes. Remove the rice from the paste crusts as soon as baked, and let cool. Drain the cepes carefully and cut them into dice, chop the peeled shallot finely and fry in butter a light colour, pour oft some of the butter, put in the ham chopped rather finely, fry a little, then add the cepes and toss or saute them for a few minutes. Season to taste, and fill each little case with this mixture. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley, fasten on the handles with a little batter across the basket cases. Set them in a hot oven for about 5 minutes. Dish and serve. Timbale de Legumes a Tlndienne. (Vegetable Timbale, Indian Style.) Line a plain charlotte or timbale mould, previously buttered, with round slices of cooked carrots, hard- boiled eggs, and asparagus points ; this must be done as neatly as possible to ensure an effective appearance.Vegetable Knirees. 37 Place the mould on the ice till needed. Mix a pint of cooked spinach puree with a gill of curry sauce (see Sauces) previously mixed with h a gill of aspic. Stir in also one table-spoonful of cream and two table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Season to taste with lemon juice, salt and pepper ; then add about a gill of cooked macedoine of vegetables. Mix carefully and fill the prepared mould with this preparation, place it on the ice till set, then unmould on to a cold dish. Garnish with slices of cucumber and beetroot, small salad and aspic jelly, and serve. Tomates ^ la Rentiere (Cold). 6-8 sound and ripe tomatoes, J gill picked prawns or shrimps, 6 oz. cooked ox-tongue, J pint bechamel or allemande sauce, i table-spoonful cream. Krona pepper, nutmeg and salt, 2 leaves of French gelatine, tomato aspic or tomato cream for coating, i large truffle, aspic border, celery and lettuce for garnish. Choose the tomatoes firm, of even size, and not too large,plunge them into boiling water for a few seconds and peel them quickly. Scoop out carefully a portion of the inside and fill the cavities with the following mixture :— Pound the tongue in a morter, adding by degrees three parts of the white sauce, season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Now add the cream and the prawns or shrimps. Dissolve the gelatine with a little water, and strain into the mixture, stir until it begins to set, then fill the tomatoes. After a while, mask each stuffed tomato with a pink coloured chaudfroid sauce (tomato cream), and put them on the ice to set. Garnish each tomato with a fancifully cut slice of truffle. Coat a border mould with aspic cream, and fill up with layers of aspic jelly interlined with some macedoine of vegetables and let set. To serve this dish unmould the aspic border on a cold entree dish,38 Recherche Entrees. range the tomatoes neatly on top of the border, fill the centre with dressed heart leaves of lettuce and finely shredded celery. Serve as a cold entree or luncheon dish. Note.—By incorporating the remainder of white sauce with a sufficient quantity of aspic jelly, it will serve as the cream for lining the border. Choux Farcis Braises au Beurre. (Braised Stuffed Cabbage.) 2 small spring cabbages, \ lb. mushrooms, \ lb. fat bacon, J lb. fresh bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of egg, J lb. sausage meat, 2 oz. butter, i onion, i clove, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, etc., ij pints of stock, i gill brown sauce. Remove the outside leaves from the cabbages, trim and wash well, plunge into cold water containing salt and a small piece of soda or moist sugar, parboil for 15 minutes, drain, and cool in fresh water, press them gently, cut each in two longways, remove the stalky parts, and spread the cabbages on a cloth. Prepare a stuffing with the mushrooms finely chopped, the sausage meat, the bread-crumbs, about a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, and the egg yolks, season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. Mix also an ounce of butter with the preparation, and make up into small egg shapes, cover well with cabbage leaves, and shape them neatly. Wrap each in a thinly cut slice of fat bacon, tie carefully with string, place them in a stew- pan or deep saute-pan, add the stock, a small onion stuck with a clove, and an ounce of butter. Set it in the oven and let braise gently for about an hour, baste from time to time. Drain the cabbage shapes, untie, remove the bacon and line with it a hot dish, range the cabbage shapes neatly on this. Remove the fat from the gravy, add the brown sauce and reduce to half gla^e, strain over the dish, and serve hot.39 Vegetable Entrees. Aubergines, Sicilienne. (Egg Plants, Sicilian Style.) Slit 4 aubergines (egg plants) lengthways and peel them. Season them with salt and paprika pepper ; then roll each slice in flour and fry them in clarified but- ter, take up and drain carefully. Prepare a stiff batter or paste with J lb. grated Par- mesan cheese and 2 yolks of eggs, suitably seasoned. Spread one side of each piece of aubergine and sandwich them together in twos. Dip them in a light frying batter and fry in deep fat or oil to a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth. Dish up and serve with a piquante tomato sauce. Cr6pinettes de Gourge a rimp^ratrice. (Vegetable Marrow Crepinettes.) I vegetable marrow, i lb. sausage meat, i pig’s caul, seasoning, butter, demi-glace sauce, i egg, potato puree, fried parsley. Peel the vegetable marrow,cut it into halves lengthways, scoop out the soft portion and cut the rest into neat oblong or round slices (medallions). Blanch them in salted water and drain on a sieve. Pound the sausage meat in a mortar till smooth, add- ing the beaten yolk of an egg and a little cream or stock. Season to taste if found necessary, and rub through a fine sieve. With this farce envelop the pieces of vegetable marrow, and then wrap each piece so prepared in a piece of pig’s caul, fixing the ends with a little white of egg Place them on a griller and baste with butter. Grill over a bright fire, allowing about 6 minutes each side. Brush over with butter occasionally. Dish up neatly in the centre of a potato puree border, garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a boat of rich gravy or demi-glace sauce.40 Recherche Entrees. Timbales de Bl§ Vert. (Green Corn Timbales.) Beat up three eggs, season with salt, and paprika or cayenne, add a gill of milk, J gill of cream, and J pint of green corn. Fill up some well buttered timbale moulds, and stand in a saute-pan of boiling water, cover with buttered paper and bake for about 20 minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with hot bechamel sauce, enriched with a little cream, containing some lemon juice, finely chopped parsley and chervil. Cassolettes de C616ri et Macaroni. (Celery and Macaroni Cassolettes.) Trim and wash 2 heads of white celery, boil it till tender in milk and water, seasoned with salt and a bay- leaf. Drain the celery, and cut it into i-inch lengths. Cook likewise 2 oz. of macaroni (spaghetti) in salted water and when done drain on a sieve and cut into short pieces. Heat up ij gills of rich white sauce (bechamel or veloute), put in the celery and macaroni, season with white pepper and a grate of nutmeg, and let the whole simmer gently for 15 minutes or longer. Great care must be taken so as not to break the celery or macaroni. Have ready 9-10 oblong or oval cassolette cases lined with thin nouille paste and baked (blind) to a golden brown. Fill these with the above prepara- tion. Dish up on a hot entree dish and serve. Petits Souffles au C§16ri. (Small Celery Soufflds.) J lb. of the white part of celery, a small blade of mace, I oz. butter, pepper and celery salt, J oz. grated Par- mesan cheese, ij gills milk, \ bay-leaf, i slice of onion, I oz. flour, 3 eggs. Trim and wash the celery, slice it thinly, blanch in salted water and drain. Put the milk, celery, bay-leaf,Vegetable Knirees. 4^ mace and onion in a stew-pan and boil till tender, re- move the mace and bay-leaf, and pass the celery, etc., through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter in a stew-pan, add a pinch of celery salt, and stir in the flour as soon as the water boils, work vigorously with a wooden spoon for several minutes over the fire, put in the celery puree and let cool a little ; then add the grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of 2 eggs and one whole egg ; this must be done gradually. Whisk the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle with the mixture ; season with a little cayenne or Krona pepper. Three-parts fill some paper or china ramequin or souffle cases. Bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. Ar- range the cases on a hot dish with folded napkin, and serve immediately. Artichauts a la Madras. (Globe Artichokes, Madras Style.) Boil six green or globe artichokes in salted water, and when nearly done, remove the leaves and scoop out the inside of bottoms, being careful not to break them. Trim them neatly, and finish cooking the artichoke bottoms in rich white stock. Prepare a sauce as follows :— Peel and chop a large shallot, fry in J oz. of butter a golden brown, add one table-spoonful of flour and blend, then add one dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a dessert- spoonful of turmeric, i dessert-spoonful of chopped Madras chutney, i teaspoonful of mustard, and a pinch of ground mace. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with J a gill of stock, put in J a chopped apple, I small piece of chopped cucumber, a few raisins, and the meat of six prawns. Cook for J an hour, then rub through a fine sieve. Re-heat, and add i table-spoonful of cream, and the juice of half a lemon ; then season to taste. Dish up the artichoke bottoms, fill them with42 'Recherche Rnirees. plainly cooked rice, pour the sauce round the dish, and garnish with the heads of prawns. Add to the remaining portion of the mixture, 2 table-spoonfuls of demi-glace, and 2 of tomato puree, with a little cream ; season, boil and strain, and pour round the base of the dish. Serve hot. Note.—In place of fresh artichokes, preserved arti- choke bottoms sold in bottles or tins, as “Fonds d’Arti- chauts,” can be used. Souffles glac6s a TArgenteuil (Iced). (Small Asparagus Souffles.) Boil in salted water the heads or soft parts of half a bundle of best English asparagus, previously washed and boiled. When tender strain off the water and put the asparagus through a fine sieve Heat up with i giU of rich bechamel sauce and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When cold, incorporate half-pint of whipped cream and freeze the mixture in the usual way in a freezing pot. Fill up a number of very small sliver-plated casserole pans each provided with a paper band, insert i head of asparagus in the centre of each, and place the shapes in a charged ice cabinet for about one hour or longer. Before serving, sprinkle over each souffle a few finely chopped pistachio nuts. Remove the paper bands and dish up. Fonds d’Artichauts Alsacienne. (Artichoke with Foie Gras.; Drain some artichoke bottoms (cooked) and fill them with a puree of foie gras and truffles, coat well with a rich well reduced white sauce. Sprinkle with bread- crumbs and brown in oven.Vegetable Entrks. 43 Beignets d’Articiiauts. (Artichoke Fritters.) Cut some cooked artichoke bottoms into slices and season with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and chopped parsley. Dip these pieces, drained, in frying batter. Fry in hot fat, drain, dish up and serve hot. Souffles d’Artichauts. (Artichoke SouiRes.) Mix a pound of Jerusalem artichoke puree with i oz. bread-crumbs, the yolks of 4 eggs, season with nutmeg, salt and pepper, and stir in the stift whites of 2 eggs. Drop spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a golden brown, or fill into small souffle cases and bake in sharp oven from 10-15 minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Petits Choux a la Lorraine. (Stuffed Cabbage Rolls.) Blanch 2 small well washed and trimmed spring cabbages, divide each and select the best leaves, placing two or three together and lay out flat. Have ready a mixture composed of sausage meat, chopped ham, savoury herbs, chopped suet, bread-crumbs, and mix with beaten egg. Make this up into rolls and wrap up each with the cabbage leaves, tie with a small piece of string and place in an earthenware stewing pot contain- ing a mirepoix of bacon, carrot, and onion. Moisten with rich stock and braise for 20 minutes. Remove the fat and add 3-4 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce. Con- tinue to cook for another 20 minutes. Take up the cabbage rolls, untruss and dish up, reduce the sauce, and pour over or round the base of the dish. Spaghetti a la Maltaise. Boil J lb. of spaghetti, a kind of macaroni only very much smaller, until tender in salted water, drain well44 Recherche Entrees. and put them back into the stew-pan, add 2 oz. butter and heat up thoroughly, then add by degrees 2 oz. grated cheese and season with salt and pepper to taste. Skin 2 sheep’s kidneys, and cut into fine slices. Cook, i.e., saute them in butter over a brisk fire, season with salt and paprika, and moisten with J pint tomato sauce. Cook for a few minutes and lastly add 6 finely chopped or sliced mushrooms and heat up. Dish up the spaghetti on a deep round dish in the form of a border, dress the stewed kidney, etc., in the centre, sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley and serve hot. Cremes de Betterave. (Beetroot Creams.) I or 2 beetroots (cooked and pickled in vinegar), i gill milk, oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, i table-spoonful cream, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs, fried or toasted bread. Cut the beetroot into inch thick slices and by means of a paste cutter three-quarters of an inch in diameter, see that all the slices are of an even size, then with a smaller cutter cut out the inside of each and place these on rounds of fried or toasted bread. Put the milk and butter in a stew-pan, add a bay-leaf and bring it to the boil, then stir in the flour (previously sifted). Mix well together and stir over the fire for about 5 minutes. Let the mixture cool a little, then add the yolks of 2 eggs, the cream, grated cheese and season to taste, remove the bay-leaf, and add about a gill of finely chopped beetroot. Whisk the whites of egg to a froth and mingle with the above. Fill the prepared beetroot shapes with this mixture, sprinkle over the top with a few fine bread- crumbs, place the shapes on a baking tin and bake in a brisk oven from 10 to 12 minutes. Dish up on the bread croutes, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve at once.Vegetable Entrees. 45 Fonds d’Artichauts d la Cr6oIe, (Farced Artichoke Bottoms.) 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 oz. lean ham, i oz. cooked ox- tongue, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 small truffles, 6 champignons, i gill veloute sauce, J oz. grated Parmesan, I oz. butter, i table-spoonful of cream, chicken force- meat, seasoning. Drain and wipe the artichoke bottoms. Cut the ham, tongue, mushrooms, chicken meat, and one truffle into fine shreds. Mix with sufficient veloute sauce to moist- en, work the cream into the chicken farce. Place a table-spoonful of this salpicon mixture in each of the artichoke bottoms. Cover with chicken forcemeat, smooth over with the blade of a knife (pyramid shape). Put them in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a buttered paper, and put them in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. Meantime warm up the remainder of the sauce ; add the Parmesan cheese, and stir until it boils, work in the butter, season with salt and pepper, strain the sauce and keep hot. Dish up the prepared artichokes in a hot entree dish, pour over the sauce. Decorate the centre of each fond with fancifully cut slices of truffle, previously warmed in a little stock, and serve. Coeurs d’Artichiuts Maraichke. (Braised Artichoke Hearts.) 6 small tender globe artichokes, i lemon, salt and pepper, J gill of olive oil, i small leek, 2 tomatoes, i clove garlic, 3 slices of bacon, 6 small new potatoes, i small glass white wine, i gill of rich stock, a small handful of each spinach and sorell leaves. Trim the artichokes, and blend them in salted water containing lemon juice, take up, and drain them, then cut into halves or quarters, and trim again, by shortening the leaves considerably. Heat up the oil in a stew-panRecherche Knirees. 46 (fireproof earthenware), fry in it the bacon and the leek, cut into fine shreds, also the garlic ; peel and cut the tomatoes into shreds, and add them to the above. Upon this range the artichokes together with the potatoes, previously washed, peeled and blanched. Moisten with the wine and stock, and season with salt and pepper, then place the spinach and sorell leaves previously washed on top. Cover the pan with a well fitting lid, seal up the edges with a band of paste, and cook the contents of the pan thus hermetically sealed in the oven for about 45 minutes. Remove the paste band, and send the Cocotte to table—hot, placing it on a large dish with folded napkin. C616ri-Raves Tyrolienne. (Celeriae Fritters.) 2 celeriae, 6-8 large sauce oysters, J a small French dinner roll, 2 egg yolks, i teaspoonful of anchovy essence, I teaspoonful of chopped parsley, frying batter, and clarified butter and oil for frying, fried parsley for garnish seasoning. Wash and peel the celeriae. then cut into slices about J of an inch thick, blanch them in salted water, and cook in white stock or seasoned water till nearly tender. When done, drain them on a cloth, and let get cold. Beard the oysters, and chop them finel}^ put them into a basin with the oyster liquor. Soak the crumby part of the French roll in a little milk,when soft, squeeze out the moisture, and mix with the oysters, adding also the eggs, anchovy, and chopped parsley. Season to taste, and mix well. Spread the mixture between each two slices of celeriae, and sandwich them together. Dip each into a light frying batter, and fry in deep oil and clarified butter, till of a nice golden brown. Take up, drain well, and dish up. Garnish with fried parsley and serve hot.47 Vegetable Knirces. Coquilles aux Petits Pois a la Su6doise (Cold). (Coquils of Peas, Swedish Style.) Line or mask 6-8 coquil or shell moulds with a thin layer of very clear aspic jelly Decorate the bottom of each mould with finely cut strips of truffle, gherkins and hard-boiled whites of egg. Mix the remainder of these ingredients with about J pint of cooked green peas (cold), and about lo preserved mushrooms, cut into small dice, also a handful of pea shapes of cucumber previously cooked in salted water and drained. Blend all these carefully in a basin and add sufficient mayonnaise and aspic to season the ingredients. Fill the prepared moulds partially with this, and pour sufficient aspic in each to completely fill the moulds. Place them on the ice till quite set, then unmould and dish up tastefully in a round or oval dish, garnish the centre with seasoned small salad and chopped aspic and serve. This is an excellent dish for the warm weather months. In place of coquil moulds, small darioles or timbales may be used. Petites Timbales a la Duxelle. (Small Duxelle Timbales.) 2 oz. lean ham, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 2 truffles, parsley, a few slices of tongue, 2 shallots, Allemande sauce, chicken forcemeat, i|- oz. butter, i egg, hot Ravigote sauce (see Sauces), and seasoning. Butter 6-8 plain timbale or dariole moulds ; decorate the inside of the moulds by placing a thin round of tongue at the bottom of each, and at equal distances round the tongue four tiny rounds of truffle ; cut some strips of tongue the length of the moulds and line the sides to form four triangles ; fix a number of tiny round bits of truffle at equal distances against the sides and line the inside with a layer of chicken forcemeat.Recherche Enlrees. 48 Chop up the ham, mushrooms, trimmings of truffles and tongue. Melt an ounce of butter, when hot add the shallots, finely chopped, and fry a little, then put in the ham, etc., half a teaspoonful parsley, stir over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with about half a gill of Alle- mande sauce, beat up the egg and mix about half of it with this, season with pepper and salt, and a good pinch of aromatic spice. Stir until the mixture begins to set. Fill up the moulds with this, cover the top of each mould with a layer of farcemeat, if you have any over ; place them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, cover with a buttered paper. Steam in the oven for about 20 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, range the shapes in a neat style, have ready some hot Ravigote sauce, and pour this round (not over) the timbales, and serve. Champignons a la Reine. (Mushrooms, Queen Style.) J lb. of small cup mushrooms of even size, 4 oz. of raw chicken or veal, 2 oz. butter, | gill bechamel sauce, 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, i gill supreme sauce, 1 lemon, 8 fleurons, meat glaze, 2 truffles, 2 yolks of eggs, season- ing, cooked rice for border. Fleurons of puff paste. Wash and drain the mushrooms, peel them, and remove the stalks. Put half the stalks and the peeled mushroom heads in a well tinned stewpan, with the butter, and juice of a lemon. Cover, and let cook for about 10 minutes. Pound the stalks and rub them through a sieve. Pound also the chicken or veal, add to it the white sauce (bechamel), and the yolks of eggs. Season with salt and pepper, and sieve them, then mix with the mushroom puree. Drain the mushroom heads and fill them with the prepared farce. Then poach them in stock in the oven.VIII EPINARDS FARCIS A LA MOELLE. (/>. 49.) SOUFFLES DE CAILLES, MARECHALE 153.):•{ tVegetable Entrees. 49 Cook the rice, about 4 oz., in stock, season, and fill into a buttered border mould. Turn out on to a hot dish. In the centre and on the border dress the farced mushrooms, sauce over carefully with the supreme sauce, and place a slice of truffle, previously glazed, on each visible mushroom head. Garnish the dish with fleurons, and serve hot. Epinards Farcis a la Moelle. (Braised Spinach with Beef Marrow.) ij lb. spinach (large leaves), ^ lb. sausage meat (or 6 oz. of veal, and 4 oz. pork finely minced and seasoned), ij 02. butter, J lemon, i gill of gravy, i table-spoonful meat glaze, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, 8-10 small slices of beef marrow, seasoning, fieurons of pufi paste. Wash the spinach, remove the stems, and any withered parts of the leaves, then blanch and afterwards drain the spinach. Prepare the farce-meat, if that be used in place of the sausage meat, and make up either into small ball shapes, adding 1-2 yolks of eggs, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Lay out on a board 5-6 spinach leaves, and make up into ball shapes with the sausage or farce meat, being careful that the latter are well enclosed in spinach. Range the shapes thus obtained in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, moisten with the gravy, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter on top. Cook this in the oven, covered, for about 30 minutes. Blanch the beef marrow, and drain on a cloth, then put in a baking tin, and re-beat in the oven. Melt the meat glaze and remainder of butter together, ada I teaspoonful parsley and lemon juice, with this glaze the slices of marrow. Dish up the spinach in a suitably shaped dish, place a slice of marrow in each shape of spinach. Pour the remainder of gravy and glaze round the base of the dish, garnish with fieurons, and serve hot. D50 Recherche Entrees. Ramequins aux Garrottes. (Savoury Carrot Tartlets.) 2 oz. cooked ham, i bunch of young carrots, 3 yolks and I white of egg, J gill cream, i dessert-spoonful rice flour (fecule de riz), puff paste, i table-spoonful sherry, i gill stock, 2 oz. butter, seasoning. Wash and scrape the carrots, slice them finely and put them in a stew-pan with the butter and the ham finely chopped, stir over a fire for about five minutes, and besprinkle with a dessert-spoonful of rice flour, then moisten with the stock, and cook till tender, stirring occasionally. Rub the cooked carrots through a fine sieve and return the puree to the stew-pan, now add the sherry and let it get thoroughly heated whilst the pan is covered. Stir in the cream and the egg-yolks ; season to taste with salt and white pepper and cayenne. Stir over the fire till the eggs are partly set, then remove and let cool a little. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix lightly with the puree. Line some small casserole or tartlet moulds with thinly rolled out puff paste, prick the bottoms with a fork and fill them with the puree. Bake them in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Concombre farcie Agrasienne. (Farced Cucumber, Agrasienne Style.) I cucumber, 3 oz. cooked ham, 2 teaspoonfuls meat glaze, \ pimiento, i hard-boiled egg, 2 table-spoonfuls curry sauce, 8 preserved mushrooms. Cut a fairly large even-shaped cucumber into 8 pieces about I Jin. thick, and with a fluted paste cutter stamp out each piece so as to remove the skin and obtain a neat shape. Place them in a buttered saute-pan with a gill of white stock or water previously mixed with a teaspoonful of meat glaze. Cover with a piece of but- tered paper, and poach in the oven for about 10 minutes.51 Farinage Dishes. then take up the cucumber, stamp out the centre part of each piece and put them on a wire sieve to drain. Chop the ham and pimiento, mix them with the curry sauce and the remainder of meat gla^e. Fill the cucumber shapes with this and place a mushroom head on top of each. Force out a star-shape of lobster or parsley butter. Re-heat in the oven or serve cold, in which case the mushroom or butter garnish may be omitted. Ravioli a Tltalienne. J lb. flour, 2 or 3 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, about 6 02. fish or liver farce, if gills good tomato sauce, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, f oz. butter. Sift the flour on to a paste board, make a well in the centre of the flour, add a pinch of salt, mix in the yolks of eggs and a little water, and work it to a stift paste ; this must be kneaded thoroughly for at least ten minutes; it must be stiff and yet of an elastic texture. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds about the size of a half-crown piece, put about a tea- spoonful of farce (liver or fish forcemeat richly seasoned and mixed with Parmesan) on the centre of a round, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with another round of paste, press the edges well together, and proceed thus until the farce is used up. Poach the raviolis in fast boiling seasoned stock, and cook for at least 15 minutes, lake up, drain and dish up. Pour over the tomato sauce, well heated and seasoned, and serve. Riz k la Hongroise. (Rice, Hungarian Style.) Pick half a pound of best rice (do not wash it), put it into a stew-pan with lid. Add 2 oz. of butter, a tea- spoonful of paprika and a teaspoonful of salt ; mix well, cover, and place in a hot oven for ten minutes, then add a handful of mushrooms cut into dice, moisten with a52 Recherche Kntrees. quart and a half of good chicken or mutton broth, and let cook slowly on the stove or in the oven from i to 2 hours. A very small bunch of savoury herbs can be added while the rice is cooking, but must be removed before it is served. Serve in little well-buttered ramakin or souffle cases. CEufs a la Printaniere. (Egg Shapes with Spring Vegetables.) Butter eight small timbale or bouche moulds, and decorate the bottom of each with fancifully cut slices of cooked vegetables, such as carrots, or turnips, peas or French beans, etc. Break a fresh egg into each mould, add a dessert-spoonful of cream, and poach them in the oven for about lo minutes. Prepare a rich white sauce, to which add i or 2 yolks of eggs, and a few drops of lemon juice. Unmould the egg shapes, and dish up ; add a few drops of meat glaze, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil to the sauce, and pour this round the base of the dish. Garnish to taste, and serve hot. Riz ^ la Polonaise. (Rice, Polish Style.) i lb. Carolina rice, 2 oz. butter, i quart chicken or beef stock, 3 small shallots, i small onion stuck with 3 cloves, 4-6 small firm tomatoes, grated cheese, salt and pepper. Clean the rice but do not wash it, put it in a stew-pan with the butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add the shallots previously peeled and chopped finely, and let brown a little, moisten with the stock or broth, add onion and tomatoes, the latter peeled, cut into slices, season slowly and cook for about an hour. A few minutes before serving, add 20z. of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese and remove the onion. Dress theIX FILETS DE TURBOT, ISABELLE COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA GELEE. (/5. I I 2.)Far inage Dishes. 53 rice in pyramid shape on a hot dish. Garnish with a few very thinly cut strips of red pimiento, and serve hot. Riz a rindienne. (Curried Rice.) 6 02. rice, i teaspoonful curry powder, 2 shallots, ij oz. butter, I gill brown sauce, i tomato, i hard-boiled egg, I teaspoonful cream, seasoning, watercress for garnish. Pick, wash, and arain the rice ; pee' and chop the shallots. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the shallots, and fry a golden colour, stir in the curry powder and fry a few minutes longer stirring all the while, then add the rice and shake the pan over the fire in order to blend the rice thoroughly. Moisten gradually with the brown sauce, cream and a little stock if necessary. Peel the tomato, cut it into dice and add also. Cook gently until the rice is tender, being careful that the rice is kept moistened, as it swells in cooking ; stir frequently but gently ; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ground mace, and nutmeg. Dish up in pyramidal form or border shape, surround the base with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and a tuft of watercress between the slices of egg. Serve very hot. Risotto a ritalienne. lb. best Italian rice, 2 oz. butter, 2 small onion, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, \ pint tomato sauce, about i pint good stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg, J teaspoonful powdered saffron. Pick and wash the rice in cold water, drain and dry it. Peel and mince finely the onion. Melt the butter in a stew-pan ; when hot add the onion, fry slowly until a light fawn colour, then add the rice ; shake the pan over the fire for a few minutes, so as to fry the rice a little. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and saffron ; moisten with a little stock, and add more as the rice54 Recherche Entrees. begins to swell. When the stock is used up, gradually add the sauce. When the rice is tender mix in the grated cheese. In preparing this dish remember that the rice should be well done, and should be neither too dry nor too moist. Have ready a large or several small buttered timbale moulds. Fill with the cooked rice and turn out quickly on to a hot dish. Pour a little tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Petits Cannelons au Florador. J lb. nouille paste (see page 62), 4 oz. florador or semolina, i oz. butter, i pint milk, 2 oz. grated cheese, I egg, 2 slices cooked ham or tongue, bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, frying fat or butter. Put the milk and butter in a stew-pan ; when boiling, sprinkle in the florador or semolina, stir and boil gently for ten minutes, then add the grated cheese and a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Spread the mixture on a flat dish. Roll out the nouille paste very thinly, cut it into even-sized pieces about an inch wide and three inches long. Spread the centre with a thick layer of the mixture, put a strip of ham or tongue in the middle of each, wet the edges a little and roll each piece neatly so that the paste completely envelops the mixture. Beat up the egg, brush over the cannelons, roll them in bread- crumbs ; when dry, egg and crumb again ; fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain, and dish up on a napkin or lace paper. Garnish with parsley and serve. Kniokis t la Russe. 4 oz. semolina or florador, J pint milk, J pint of rich white stock, a bay-leaf, 2 eggs, J pint bechamel sauce,i oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i oz. butter, bread-crumbs. Put the milk and stock into a stew-pan, and boil upFarinage Dishes. 55 with the bay-leaf, stir in the semolina or florador, and stir continuously over the fire till boiling, then add the butter and 2 yolks of eggs, and continue to stir for a few minutes longer. Spread this on a buttered dish or baking dish, and let cool. Cut the mixture into rounds or ovals, and range them on a buttered fireproof dish Spread a la^^er of bechamel sauce and grated cheese between each, and coat the surface completely with sauce when finished dressing. Besprinkle with grated cheese and bread-crumbs, also a little oiled butter, and brown in the oven. Serve hot. Topinambours au Risotto. (Jerusalem Artichokes with Risotto.) 4 oz. butter, i oz. onion minced, 6 oz. rice (well picked), ij pints white stock, 2 dessert-spoonfuls meat glaze or Lemco, i oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 lb. Jerusalem artichokes, i small truffle, chopped finely, J gill tomato pulp. Wash and peel the artichokes, put them in salted water acidulated with lemon juice for an hour, then cook them in seasoned water till tender. Drain well and toss them in butter, and keep them hot in a little stock enriched with meat glaze. Melt 3 oz. of butter in a stew-pan, fry in it the onions just long enough to blend, then add the rice. Stir for a few minutes over the fire without browning and add the stock. Boil gently for about 40 minutes, then stir in the remainder of the meat glaze, the tomato pulp, grated cheese, and the truffle. When sufficiently reduced, fill up a buttered border mould and turn it out on to a round dish. Dress the artichokes in the centre, pour over a little tomato or brown sauce, and serve.56 Recherche Entrees. A Selection of Fish Entrees* Timbale de Turbot Frascati. I lb. of turbot, I whiting, i gill cream, 2 whites of eggs, J gill of bechamel sauce, seasoning, J pint of cooked asparagus points, J gill of mayonnaise, truffles for decoration, Breteuil sauce. (See Sauces.) Remove the skin and bones from both fish, and pound till smooth in a mortar, adding the cream and the white sauce, also the seasoning, viz., salt, pepper, paprika, and nutmeg. When well pounded, rub all through a fine sieve. If found too stiff, add a little more cream. Whisk the whites of eggs, and mix thoroughly with the farce. Butter a pHin timbale mould, and line it thickly with the prepared fish farce. Drain the asparagus points, and mix them carefully with the mayonnaise and the neces- sary seasoning. Put this in the centre of the mould, and fill up with the remainder of the fish farce. Cover the mould with buttered paper, and steam from 30 to 35 minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and pour over with Breteuil sauce. Decorate the top of the timbale with asparagus or spinach puree, and fancifully cut slices of pimiento and truffle, and serve hot. Filets de Turbot, Isabelle. (Fillets of Turbot, Isabel Style.) ij lb. turbot, I glass Sauterne, mirepoix (| a sliced onion, i bay-leaf, i 07. butter, i sliced carrot), hsh stock made from fish bones, etc., i table-spoonful Lemco, salt and pepper, 6 oysters, 3 potatoes, and Italian potato border.TARTELETTES DE RIS DE VEAU. {p. 16.) X CREMES DE FAISAN A L’ECARLATE. {p. 24.) ZEPHIRES DE PERDREAUX, METROPOLE. [p. 163.)Fish Fnirees. 57 For Sauce.—i gill supreme or allemande, 2 egg yolks, oyster liquor, cream, fish stock, J teaspoonful Lemco or meat glaze, J 07. fresh butter, seasoning. Bone the fish, and cut into neat portions, not too thin, removing the black skin. Place the pieces in a braising pan on a mirepoix made from above-named ingredients. Season with salt and pepper, moisten with the wine, and cover, then braise (white) adding a little fish stock, pre- viously made from the fish bones and skin, and then well reduced with the Lemco or meat glaze. When the pieces of turbot are sufficiently braised, take them up carefully, and keep hot. Prepare a neatly shaped border of marquise potato puree in an oval dish, and bake in the oven. Next prepare the sauce from above- given ingredients. Dress the turbot neatly in the dish, and sauce over carefully. Garnish with the oysters poached in stock, and cut in halves, also mushroom heads and small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. Arrange the former in groups, and the potatoes m a line in centre of dish. Serve hot, and hand remainder of sauce round separately. Italian Potato Border. (For above dish.) To 2 lb. of mashed potatoes add i oz. of butter. Season to taste and heat up over the fire, then stir in i whole egg, and 2 yolks well beaten, also J gill of well reduced tomato puree. Fill into a large forcing bag with a rosette tube and force out in a neat border on a well buttered oblong dish. Brush over lightly with liquefied Lemco and very little stock or water. Bake in the oven till the substance is firm enough. M6daillons de Saumon d la Diplomate (Cold). I to ij lb. salmon, i oz. butter, lemon juice, lobster farce, pink chaudfroid sauce, i cucumber, and a little58 'Recherche 'Entrees. mayonnaise, aspic, chopped truffles or pistachios for garnish, semolina border for dressing. Skin and bone the salmon, cut it into slices, about Jin. thick, flatten out evenly, and stamp out into rounds or ovals to the size of the paper cases (these must be of very flat shape) Arrange the salmon into a buttered saute-pan. Season with salt, pepper, and put a tiny piece of butter on the surface of each. Sprinkle with lemon juice. Cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. When done, take up, place the slices carefully on a sieve, mix the lobster farce with a little cream and aspic, just sufficient to bind, and spread one side of the salmon slices with it. Put them on a wire tray, and sauce over carefully with pink chaudfroid sauce. Besprinkle the edges with chopped truffle or pistachio, place a star of truffle in centre of each, and coat them finally with a thin layer of aspic. Shred finely the peeled cucumber, mix with very little mayonnaise and whipped cream, salt, and paprika. Have ready a border made of savoury semolina, coated with pink chaudfroid sauce. Fill the centre with the seasoned cucumber and cream, dress the salmon slices on top of the border, garnish round the base of the dish with triangular slices of set aspic. The dish is then ready to serve. Petits Souffles de Saumon, Gauloise. (Cold Salmon Souffles.) \ lb. cold cooked salmon, J large cucumber, J gill bechamel sauce, ij gills aspic jelly, 2 table-spoonfuls fish essence, j teaspoonful anchovy essence, J gill cream, salt, pepper, paprika and nutmeg for seasoning, i truffle and chervil leaves for garnish. Peel and slice the cucumber and cut out 8 Jin. thick rings, blanch the remainder in salted water. Free theFish Entrhs. 59 fish from skin and bones, put the latter into a stew-pan with one glass of claret, stock and usual vegetables and make into essence. Pound the salmon in a mortar, when fine enough, add the sauce and the remainder of the cucumber including the trimmings, which has been previously blanched in salted water and well drained. Put all through a fine sieve and incorporate about J gill of aspic and the fish essence, and anchovy essence ; then season to taste with salt, pepper and paprika. Whip the cream till stiff and stir into the above. Fib up 8 small china or silver-plated souffle cases, each provided with a paper band, and place them on the ice. When set, put a ring of cucumber on top of each souffle and fill the cavity with aspic flavoured with fish essence. To serve remove the paper bands, decorate the centre of each with a neatly cut slice of truffle and chervil leaves—then dish up and send to table. Z6phires de Crabes d la Royale (Cold). Remove the flesh from two crabs, flake a portion and use it for garnish. Pound the remainder in a mortar till quite smooth, then add a gill of bechamel sauce. Season with salt, pepper and aromatic spice, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Incorporate half a gill of stiff aspic, and fill the mixture into small Savarin moulds, which have been previously masked with aspic and decorated with fine strips of truffles and strips of pimiento or red chilli skin. Place the little moulds on the ice for 2 hours, turn them out on to small round dishes, fill the centre with the flaked crab flesh, decorate with lobster coral or chopped pistachios, and serve with a sauce composed of mayonna'ise, whipped cream, a little French mustard, and a little grated horseradish. The sauce must be kept on the ice until required for table.Recherche Knirees. 6o Roulettes de Sole d la Russe (Cold). (Rings of Sole with Artichoke and Caviare.) 1 small sole, 8 small artichoke bottoms, i jar of Astra- chan caviare, i lemon, J 07. butter, J glass white French wine (Chablis or Sauterne), aspic, salt, pepper and cayenne, lobster coral. Skin and fillet the sole, make fish stock with the bones and skin. Roll each fillet of sole round one or more well buttered wooden rolls. Place them in a buttered saute- pan, season to taste, add the wine, a little fish stock, and a few drops of lemon juice. Cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for lo minutes. Take up the rolls, and when quite cold, carefully re- move the fillets, then cut each in two, so as to obtain eight rings in all. Scallop out the artichoke bottoms, and cut out some of the hara portion from the bottoms. Place them on the ice and coat with aspic. To serve, place a ring of fillet of sole in each artichoke bottom. Fill the centre with caviare, previously iced. Ornament the top with triangular-shaped thin slices of lemon and lobster coral. Dish up, garnish with parsley, place on a dish, surrounded with crushed ice. Filets de Sole Saint-Georges. 2 soles, I gill picked shrimps, i gill lobster sauce, | gill cream, 4 large potatoes, i small glass white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), i lemon, i 07. butter, seasoning, sauce Percy. (See Sauces.) Skin and fillet the soles, roll up each fillet, cut side outwards round the end of a carrot, previously scraped and buttered. Place them carefully on to a buttered baking sheet or saute-pan. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, pour over the white wine, cover with buttered paper, and cook for 10 minutes in the oven. Wash and dry the potatoes, and bake them till quite soft{p. 117.) MOUSSE DE JAMBON, FROID. XI, CONCOMBRE FARCIE AGRASIENNE. (P* 55.)1Fish Entrees. 6i in the oven. Toss the shrimps in butter, then add the lemon juice, and the cream, lastly the lobster sauce, and re-heat. Cut the potatoes in halves. Scoop out some of the centre (soft) part, and put a little of the shrimp ragout in each. Slip off the fillets of sole, and fill them with the ragout, then place them in the potatoes. Re-heat, and dish up round a neatly cut croute of fried bread. Gar- nish with parsley and cut lemon. Serve hot with a boat of sauce Bercy. Paupiettes de Sole a la Royale. Skin 3 medium-sized soles, and remove the fillets care- fully. Lay them in a dish with enough white wine (Chablis or Hock), and lemon juice to soak for an hour. Prepare a fish farce with 3 whiting and the needful quantity of cream and seasoning, mix with it some finely chopped lobster and lobster butter. Spread the fillets with this and roll them up. Range them on a buttered saute-pan and insert on top of each several prawns with a small round of truffle in the centre. Poach them carefully in the oven till done, then take up and dish up in the form of a crown on a small round of artichoke bottoms. Prepare a fish stock (clear) with the fish bones, season, strain and reduce with white wine and lemon juice. Add a few chopped tarragon leaves and 2 pats of fresh butter. Sauce over the fillets with this. Fill the centre of the dish with a ragout of mushroom heads and small lobster quenelles mixed with Cardinal sauce. Garnish the dish with fieurons. Filets de Sole d la Diane. 2 small soles, Nouille paste, white wine, seasoning, grated cheese, prawn puree, i truffle, veloute sauce, I 07. butter.62 Recherche Kntrees. Prepare a nouille paste, made with 6 07. flour, i oz. butter, I egg yolk, salt, and a little milk. Knead it well, and roll out thinly, then stamp out a number of ovals, and line with these the required number of oval shaped fluted patty pans (flat). Bake them in a cool oven for about lo minutes. Skin and fillet the soles, poach them in the oven in a well buttered saute-pan with a little white wine, mush- room liquor, lemon juice and seasoning. Take them up and let cool, then trim each fillet to the size of the oval paste crusts. Heat up the prawn puree, and spread the bottom of each paste crust with it. Upon this place the fillets of sole, one on each. Sauce over carefully with well reduced veloute sauce, besprinkle with grated chesse and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about 5 minutes. Decorate the top of each with a few fancifully cut slices of glazed truffle. Dish up tastefully and serve hot. Croustade de Homard. (Frosted Lobster Croustade.) I lb. puff paste, i large lobster, 2 whites and i yolk of eggs, oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 shallots, i gill demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry, i oz. butter, i teaspoon- ful anchovy essence, 6 mushroom slices, salt, cayenne or paprika pepper. Split the lobster, remove all the meat and cut into neat pieces, peel and chop the shallot, fry them to a golden colour in the butter ; then add the lobster and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Add the sherry, cover and let reduce a little, moisten with the sauce and the an- chovy essence, season with red pepper and salt, add the mushrooms, and keep hot. Roll out the paste about | of an inch thick, stamp out 3 rounds about 5in. in diameter, place one on a baking63 Fish Entrees. sheet, carefully wet the edge, and place the two other rounds on top of the first, wetting the edge of the second piece. Take a 4iin. round cutter and cut out the cen- tre of the top la3^er of paste ; brush over carefully with beaten egg yolk, mark the edge of the paste with the point of a knife and bake the paste in a moderately- heated oven to a golden brown. When done, place on a dish. Whisk the whites of egg to a stifi froth, mix half the cheese and a pinch of paprika pepper. Put the lobster and some of the sauce in the centre of the baked \ case on the dish. Fill a forcing bag with the egg-froth, and force out the mixture neatly so as to cover com- pletely the whole of the lobster ragout, sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese, bake in a quick oven to brown the top. Dish up and serve quickly. Oysters and scallops may be done in the same manner, but when oysters are used, every care must to taken to prevent actual boiling. Barquettes de Poisson a la Choisy. (Little Paste Crusts of Fish.) Prepare a paste with 6 oz. of flour, 3 oz. butter, i egg, and a pinch of salt. Roll in the butter the same as for puff paste, and give it 3 turns. Roll out the paste thinly, and line with it 10-12 small boat-shaped moulds. Prick the paste with a fork to prevent blisters ; fill the moulds with uncooked rice or peas, and bake to a golden brown. When baked, un- mould the shapes, and place them on a sieve to cool. Prepare a fish farce with i large or 2 small whitings, I egg, a little white sauce, and the necessary seasoning. With it shape little quenelles, round or oval, and poach them in fish stock. Cut into dice shapes 2 truffles, and 8 preserved mushrooms, and put them with the fish quenelles in a stew-pan. Moisten with a rich white sauce (Supreme character), made with the help of stockRecherche Entrees. 64 prepared from the fish trimmings, bechamel, cream, and lemon juice, etc. Season with salt and cayenne, and keep hot. When ready for serving, fill the little boat shapes with the prepared salpicon and its sauce. Reheat them in the oven, then dish up, and place a neatly cut slice of truffle on top of each barquette. Cotelettes de Homard farcies a I’Am^ricaine. (Stuffed Lobster Cutlets.) I lobster, 3 whitings, i gill cream, J gill of well reduced tomato puree, a little fish essence, mixed with i table- spoonful of Lemco or meat glaze, 3 eggs, Panurette or bread-crumbs, seasoning, cooked rice for dressing, fried parsley, frying fat. Slit and crack the lobster, take out all the meat, and chop it (not too finely), mix it with half the sauce, heat it up thoroughly, season to taste with salt and pepper, and put it in a plate to cool. Pound the whiting, previously freed from skin and bones. When smooth enough, add the cream and sea- soning, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve ; this is the fish farce. Have ready 8 cutlet-shaped moulds well buttered. Mask the inside with a good layer of fish farce. Shape the lobster mixture into round pats of even size, place one in each mould with about a teaspoonful of tomato puree, flavoured with the prepared fish essence. Cover the mixture with more fish farce and shape neatly. Steam them for about 30 minutes. When done, and half cold, unmould the shapes on to a cloth. Brush th'^m - X over with beaten egg, and roll in Panurette or bread- crumbs, then fry in hot fat to a golden colour, and drain. Insert a small piece of macaroni in the end of each to form the stalk. Dish up in pyramidal form on a bed of cooked rice, suitably seasoned. Garnish with sprigs of fried parsley and serve.XII CHAMPIGNONS A LA RLINE. [P. 48.) COTELETTES DE VOLAILLE, MELBA {p- I35-)Fish Entrees. 65 Quenelles de Homard Bourgeoise. (Lobster Quenelles.) I small lobster, i oz. lobster butter, 2 small French rolls or milk bread, 3-4 yoiks of eggs, seasoning, i small whiting, bechamel sauce, a little milk. Split the lobster, remove the meat, and cut into small dice. Free the rolls from crust, and cut the soft part into slices, then soak in tepid milk. Skin and bone the whiting, pound the flesh in a mortar when fine, add one-third of the lobster, half the lobster butter, and the bread well squeezed, pound till quite smooth, then rub through a fine sieve. Season with salt, pepper and paprika, and incorporate 3-4 yolks of eggs, test the mixture, and if found too stiff, add a little cream. Butter a number of small fish-shaped entree moulds, and poach them in the oven in the usual way and keep hot. Toss the remainder of lobster meat in the lobster butter over a quick hre ; season and add 1-2 table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Unmould the cooked quenelles and dress them in a circle on a hot dish. Put the lobster garniture in the centre and serve hot. Huitres au Jambon Dubarry. (Oyster and Ham, Dubarry Style.) 18 oysters, J lb. raw ham, J It. light chicken farce a few pistachios, white bread-crumbs, i egg, clarified butter for frying, i lemon, a croute of fried bread, tomato mayonnaise. (See Sauces.) Beard the oysters, and cut the ham into very thin slices Mix the. chicken farce with a little cream, and a few chopped pistachio kernels. Spread over each oyster with the prepared farce, then wrap each carefully in a thin slice of ham. Dip the oysters thus prepared ERecherche Entrees. 66 into beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs, or if preferred coat them with light frying batter. Fry them in clari- fied butter to a golden brown, and drain well on paper or a cloth. Fix the bread croute in the centre of a round flat dish, and insert on top a fancifully cut lemon filled with sprigs of watercress. Then fasten the fried oysters on little silver skewers, allowing two for each, put one in the centre top of croute, and the remainder round the croute. Decorate with slices or quarters of lemon and watercress, and serve hot with the tomato mayonnaise, which must be handed round separately. Huitres en Gel^e a la Russe (Cold). (Jellied Oysters, Russian Style.) Open 12 oysters, free them from the beard, and blanch the oysters in their own liquor. Drain and let cool on a sieve ; clarify the oyster liquor and mix with J a pint of fish aspic, flavoured with a little white wine. Clean the lower (deep) oyster shells, coat each oyster with aspic, and place them in the prepared shells. On the centre of each oyster put about a teaspoonful of fresh Astrachan Caviare, and farce out a neat (thin) border of finely chopped aspic round the base of each oyster. Dish up, garnish the dish with fancifully cut slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and keep on the ice till required for table. Vol-au-Vent a la Chambord. (Fish Vol-au-Vent.) I lb. puff paste, 6 crayfish tails, 2 truffles (sliced), 6 mushrooms (sliced), i8 small fish quenelles (poached), 12 oysters (blanched and bearded), J pint of Genoise sauce. (See Sauces.) Make the puff paste in the usual way, give it six turns. Roll out to about f of an inch in thickness, cut it out the desired size of the vol-au-vent (round or oval), turn theFish Entrees. 67 paste over on to a wetted baking sheet, brush the top over with beaten egg,make a circular incision (to form the lid), about J of an inch deep. This is best done with a large round paste cutter or a sharp pointed knife. Bake the paste in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked, re- move the lid, scoop out the soft part of the inside, brush the inside of the crust with egg and put back into the oven for a few minutes longer. Prepare the garniture consisting of the crayfish tails, and warm up in the sauce, let it cook slowly for five minutes. The quenelles are made with i skinned and boned whiting, pounded and sieved, and mixed with the white of I egg, I table-spoonful of bechamel sauce, and J gill of cream ; season and shape and poach. Put the vol-au-vent crust on a deep dish, fill with the garniture, cover with the lid, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve hot. Timbale de Merluche, Milanaise. (Haddock Timbale, Milanese Style.) 4-6 spaghetti, 2 oz. butter, i whiting, i small smoked haddock, 6 mushrooms, i gih picked shrimps, i gill cream, i egg, salt and pepper, tomato sauce. (See Sauces.) Cook the spaghetti in fast boiling salted water till tender, then drain them and spread them on a cloth. Well butter one or two bomb-shaped moulds (plain), and line the inside with the spaghetti,beginning at the centre of the bottom of mould, and coil the spaghetti round and round till the side of the mould is completely covered. Brush over with soft butter, and stand on the ice till required. Prepare a fish farce by pounding the skinned and boned whiting, when smooth, add the cream, the white of egg, and 2 table-spoonfuls of reduced white68 Recherche Knirees. sauce, season to taste and rub through a fine sieve. Spread the inside of the mould with a little of this farce. Cook the haddock with the anchovy and butter in the oven for lo minutes, then remove the skin and bones, and chop the meat finely. Melt the remainder of butter in a stew-pan, put in the above, also the mushrooms pre- viously cut into fine shreds, and the shrimps. Mix well, season to taste, and add the rest of the fish farce and egg yolks. Fill up the prepared mould with this and steam for about half an hour. Dish up, and serve with hot tomato sauce enriched with a little fresh cream. Chartreuse d’Eperlan a la Mand6. (Chartreuse of Smelts.) Fish Farce.—i lb. whiting, free from skin and bone, also the fillets of 9 large smelts, 2 whites of eggs, i gill of cream, and seasoning. Pound the fish farce ingredients in a mortar with 3 boneless smelts, till quite smooth, then work in the egg whites, season and rub through a fine sieve. Keep on the ice for i hour, and add the whipped cream last. Having prepared the fish farce as directed wirk in a table-spoonful of Lemco diluted with 2 table-spoonfuls of fish stock, then test its consistency in boiling wateror stock. Fillet the remaining 6 smelts, butter a plain chartreuse mould, and line the sides with the fillets of smelts, placing them in a slanting position, and put the mould on the ice for an hour or so. Fill the prepared mould with the fish farce. This must be done well but carefully, so as not to disturb the small fillets. Poach on top of the stove or in the oven, covered with a buttered paper for about 40 minutes. Unmould the shape carefully on to a hot dish. Pour over a well made rich “ Sauce Mande ” (see Sauces), and serve.XIII. TOURNEDOS DE BCEUF A LA ST. JEAN. [p. 96.) TOPINAMKOURS AU RISOTTO. {P- 54.)V. 1 1 *3 \ !69 Entrees of VeaU Escalopes de Veau Farcis aux C6pes. (Farced Veal Fillets with Cdpes.) About 2 lb. of fillet of veal, 3 oz. clarified butter, 4 oz. pork, 4 oz. beef marrow, i oz. anchovy paste, 2 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, J pint pre- served cepes, I gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, and bread-crumbs. Trim the veal, cut it into 8-10 even-sized scallops, beat each with a cutlet bat, aud shape neatly. Put 2 oz. butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the scallops, and fry over a quick fire to a light brown colour. As the meat will be cooked again, the frying process should be done quickly without actually cooking the meat through. Press the meat between two weighted boards, and keep thus until cold. Cut the pork and marrow into small pieces, pound in a mortar, when fine add the anchovy paste, savoury herbs, egg yolks, and | an ounce of butter. Pound thoroughly till smooth. Season with pepper and salt, and rub through a fine sieve. Coat one side of each fillet thickly with this farce. Put them in a buttered saute-pan, cover over with a few fried bread-crumbs, besprinkle with oiled butter, and place in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Drain the cepes, slice them and toss them in a little butter, season with salt and pepper, add the demi-glace sauce, and cook for ten minutes. Range the fillets in a circle on a hot entree dish, put the cepes ragout in the centre, and serve.70 Recherche Rntrees. Chartreuse de Veau a la Cr6cy (Cold). (Small Veal Fillets with Young Carrots.) I lb. lean veal, freed from skin and sinews, i small bunch new carrots, scraped and cooked, \ pint aspic, J oz. meat glaze, i glass Marsala, 3 sheets gelatine, chopped parsley, i oz. butter, i lemon, 2 truffles, i pimiento or beetroot for garnish, i gill Espagnole, cocks’ combs and kernels, oil, vinegar, seasoning. Cut the veal into rather thin slices of even size, and trim into cutlet shapes or small fillets. Streak them with semi-circles of truffle slices graduated in size, and carefully place them in a saute-pan containing J ounce of melted butter, season carefully with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over the juice of a lemon. Poach them thus in the oven, covered with buttered paper. When done, take up, drain and let cool. Next mask them well with aspic. Place a cylindrical or cone mould in a pan of crushed ice, coat the inside and bottom with a layer of aspic, and decorate the sides with an even chain of rounds of slices of truffle, pimientos and carrot, alter- nating the colours. When quite set, dip the decorated fillets of veal in half-set aspic, and range them round the sides of the mould. Heat up the sauce and reduce with the meat glaze and the wine, season to taste, and strain in the gelatine, previously soaked and melted, also a little aspic ; let cool. To this add sufficient cocks’ combs and kernels, the trimmings of truffles, and a few sliced cooked carrots, to fill the mould. Leave it on the ice to set for about an hour. Prepare a salad with the carrots, left whole or cut into quarters, to which a little shredded beetroot or pimiento can be added. Mix with oil and vinegar, add salt and pepper to taste, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Unmould the shape on to a cold entree dish, range the salad neatly into the centre cavity, decorate with a few sprigs of cress or endive, and serve.71 Entrees of Veal. Ris de Veau d la Biarritz (Cold). (Sweetbread, Biarritz Style.) 2 medium-sized heart sweetbreads, 3-4 slices fat bacon, i bouquet garni, i carrot, i onion, \ oz. butter, J pint well reduced veal or chicken stock, i gill tomato sauce, J pint veloute sauce, J gill aspic jelly, J gill white wine, J oz. gelatine, i truffle, 1-2 red chillies or pimiento, 4 07. best rice for socle, pepper and salt. Blanch the sweetbreads, i.e., place them in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover, add a little salt, and let boil; strain off the water and allow cold water to run over freely. Wash and trim them where necessary (removing any skin or sinews), and put them under press. Cut the carrot and onion into slices. Put the butter in a deep saute or braising pan, cover the bottom with a layer of the vegetables (mirepoix), and the bouquet of herbs, put the sweetbreads on top, season with pepper and salt, cover with the slices of bacon, moisten with the stock and wine, and cook in a moderate oven from 30 to 35 minutes; baste frequently, adding a little more stock if needed. When cooked, take up and let cool. Warm up the tomato and veloute sauce, add to it the strained liquor from the sweetbreads ; dissolve the gelatine in a little water or stock, and strain into the sauce, which should be of a pale pink colour. (A few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal may be added if found necessary.) Strain the sauce into a basin, and put in a cool place. Cut the sweetbreads into quarter-inch thick slices, mask each side with the above sauce as it becomes consistent enough to coat. Decorate one side of each slice with'fancifully cut strips of truffle and slices of pimiento or chilli skin (crown or star shapes are most effective), fix the garnish with aspic, and when set, mask over the whole with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Have ready a socle or fiat border of cooked rice, coat it with the remainder of sauce and aspic,Recherche Entrees. 72 and place it in the centre of a cold dish (silver plated). Range the prepared slices of sweetbread neatly on the socle, garnish with small salad and serve. Socle of Rice for Cold Entr6es. Wash some Carolina rice in several waters, put it in a well tinned stewpan, with about three times its quantity of cold water, heat up slowly and bring to the boil, then cook at the side of the stove, or in the oven gradually until the rice is done ; the liquid should by this time be almost absorbed in the rice. Pound it in a mortar whilst warm until it has the appearance of a smooth paste. Add a little salt and lemon juice to flavour, and press into a wetted plain fiat mould. Set the mould in the ice for 2-3 hours. To unmould it, immerse the mould in hot water, turn out, and carve the side with a sharp knife to give it a more artistic appearance. Dress and use as required. Zephires do Ris de Veau a la Harlequin (Cold). (Sweetbread Zephires.) Line 6-8 small oval Zephir moulds of suitable shape with a thin layer of aspic. Decorate the bottom of each with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg in shape and pattern of mosaique or diamonds. When set, mask the inside of the moulds completel}/ with a la}"er of aspic cream. When this is fairty firm, nearly fill the moulds with cube-shaped pieces of cold braised sweetbread, shredded lean ham, green peas and truffle, the latter also cut in shreds. Before being put into the moulds, moisten the mixture carefully with mayonnaise. Next a good la3'^er of aspic cream on top, so as to completely fill each mould, which are then placed on the ice, and allowed to set. When required for table, unmould them carefully, range the shapes round a neattyEnirus of Veal. 73 decorated foie-gras mousse placed in the centre of a round entree dish, which is then ready to serve. The Foie-gras Mousse is made with 6 oz. best foie gras pounded with 2 oz. of cooked ham or tongue, sieved and mixed with i gill aspic, and \ gill of whipped cream. It is then seasoned with aromatics, and whisked over the ice till half set, and subsequently poured into a prepared bombe mould. To prepare the latter, mask the inside of a bombe or colomie mould with a thin layer of aspic, and decorate with long triangular cut slices of truffle, and hard- boiled white of egg or tongue, arranged alternately so as to effect a harmonising and symmetrical design. Now coat the decorated part with a thin layer of mayonnaise or aspic cream, and when set, fill up the mould with the prepared mousse mixture. Ris de Veau a la du Barry. Blanch and trim a pair of large, firm sweetbreads, and put them under weight. Lard them and braise in the usual manner. Cook, in the meantime, a large cauli- flower in salted water, drain it and divide it into small flowerets or buds. Heat this up in a well prepared Hollandaise sauce. To Dress.—Cut the sweetbread into scallops and arrange them on a hot dish in the form of a border with alternate slices of cooked ox-tongue. To the liquor of the sweetbread add a sufficiency of Madeira sauce, reduce, skim and strain over the dressed sweetbread. Arrange the cauliflower in centre of the dish and serve hot. Ris de Veau a la Brandimbourg. (Sweetbreads with Chestnut Pur6e.) Blanch a pair of heart sweetbreads, trim them and place them under press till cold. Lard them neatly byRecherche Knirees. 74 inserting small strips of larding bacon. Line a braising pan with slices of onion and carrot, add an ounce of butter, and fry lightly without browning. Place the larded sweetbreads on top, moisten with half a pint of seasoned gravy or consomme stock, a glass of Marsala or a dessert- spoonful of meat glaze. Cover with a piece of buttered paper and cook in the oven for about 35 minutes, basting frequently. When done, remove the sweetbreads, take the fat off the liquor and reduce the latter to a half glaze. Strain this into another stew-pan and put in the sweetbreads to keep hot till required. Prepare a chestnut puree, put it in a forcing bag and force out a pretty border on to an oval dish. Let it set in the oven for a few minutes. Dress the sweetbreads in the centre of the border and serve with Madere sauce. Chestnut Puree. Boil a pound of large chestnuts for about 20 minutes ; remove shell and peel (the brown pith), boil again in a little stock, and when quite tender rub through a fine wire sieve. Season with salt and pepper, and moisten with very little brown sauce or rich stock. Escalopes de Ris de Veau. (Fried Sweetbread Cutlets.) Wash and blanch a sweetbread, then trim it by re- moving the pipes and fatty portion. Put it in a buttered saute-pan with a few slices of carrot, J a sliced onion, ^ a bay-leaf, and a gill of stock. Season with salt and pepper, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about half an hour or till tender. Take up and press till cold. Have ready a light frying batter made with 4 oz. flour, I egg, a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of olive oil75 'Entrees of 'Veal. and a little tepid water, let it stand after it is well beaten. Cut the sweetbread into slices, coat each slice with a lightly seasoned white sauce, then dip in the frying batter so as to completely coat the meat. Drop the slices one by one into very hot fat, fr}^ to a golden colour, drain, dish up, and serve with tomato or piquante sauce. Ris de Veau a la St. Michel (Cold). (Sweetbread, St. Michel Style.) 2 heart sweetbreads, i terrine foie gras (size No. lo), 2 truffles, mirepoix, etc., 8 cooked artichoke bottoms, blonde chaudfroid sauce, macedoine of vegetables, may- onnaise, aspic, and seasoning. Blanch the sweetbreads, trim and pare them, and press them in the usual way. Insert some strips of bacon, and braise them with a mirepoix, etc. When done let cool, and cut each in two lengthwise. Stamp out as many rounds of sweetbread as there are artichoke bottoms, and as near as possible to the size of the latter. Incorporate the essence of sweetbread with the chaudfroid sauce, and mask the rounds of sweetbread with the sauce, as it cools. Stamp out some round slices of foie gras somewhat smaller than the sweetbread, place these in the centre of the latter, and coat them also with chaudfroid sauce. Trim the artichoke bottoms, season them with aspic flavoured with lemon juice, place the sweetbreads on these, stamp out star-shaped slices of truffle and put one on each of the slices of foie gras. Mask the whole well with half-set aspic and dish up in a circle on a round dish. Season the macedoine of vegetables with a little mayonnaise and aspic and arrange in the shape of a dome in the centre of the dish. Garnish suitably and serve.76 Recherche Kntrees. Ris de Veau d la Chevali^re. (Braised Sweetbread, Chevaliere Style.) Blanch and trim a pair of sweetbreads, press them, and then lard with strips of fat bacon, tongue and truffles; arrange these in alternate rows. Place them on a mirepoix (bacon, carrot, onion, bou quet garni, etc.), moisten with a glass of Madeira wine and white stock. Braise the sweetbreads in this manner, taking care that the surface does not take colour, i.e., get brown. When done, cut each slantways into 4 or 5 slices, replace to original shape and dress on fried bread croutons. Garnish the dish with preserved mushroom heads (champignons), small glazed truffles, and cocks’ combs, fill the centre of the dish with a delicate ragout of small chicken quenelles, and sauce over the sweetbreads with a well prepared supreme sauce. To improve the dish further, 2 or 3 silver skewers, each replete with a very small tomato, truffle, and champignons, should be inserted into the sweetbreads. Vol-au-Vent aux Quenelles de Veau. (Vol-au-Vent of Veal Quenelles.) Prepare and bake a vol-au-vent crust using i lb. of puff paste, when baked remove the lid, scoop out some of the soft inside portion and keep hot. Mince and pound in a mortar i lb. lean veal, adding 2 eggs and f gill cream. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. When smooth enough rub through a fine sieve and make up the mixture into very small quenelles by means of a tea or dessert-spoon. Poach them in stock or salted water, drain and heat up in a rich white sauce. Fill the vol-au-vent crust with this, cover with its lid and dish up.XIV MOUSSE DE CHAPON, BELLE HELENE. (/?. II9.) ZEPHIRES DE RIS d’aGNEAU HARLEQUIN. (/?. 28.)1 <4 jEntrees of Veal. 77 Timbale de Veau a la Cardinal. (Veal Timbale, Cardinal Style.) IJ lb. lean veal, salt and pepper, 12 prawns, i oz. cray- fish butter, 2 oz. ox-tongue, i oz. butter, i shallot, i new kidney potato, 3 whites of eggs, i pimiento, gills veloute sauce, \ gill cream, 6 mushrooms, lobster coral or spawn, 8 fleurons, i hatelet. Free the meat from skin and sinews. Cut one-fourth of it into fine shreds, and pound the remainder in a mortar till smooth, adding to it by degrees the whites of eggs and a little cream. Work in enough lobster coral or spawn to give the farce a pink tint. Season well with salt, pepper and aromatics, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a timbale mould, and spread the inside thickly with the farce. Keep on the ice till wanted. With the shredded veal make a(see page 86). Fry the meat in butter with a blended chopped shallot ; add the tongue, cooked potato (cut in dice and fried), pimiento, and mushroom, all cut into dice, also 8 of the prawn tails, and moisten with a little veloute sauce. Put this mixture into a coated mould and fill up with the re- mainder of the farce. Poach for 45 minutes. Prepare a rich sauce with the veloute and crayfish butter. Unmould the timbale on a hot dish, sauce over carefully, and surmount the shape with the remaining 4 prawns, and insert a small hatelet in the centre. Garnish with puff paste fleurons and serve. Timbale de Ris de Veau a la Reine (Cold). (Cold Sweetbread Timbale.) I cooked sweetbread, braised or boiled, i truffle, 3 oz. cooked ham, lean, 8 preserved mushrooms, i slice ox- tongue, 1 pint aspic jelly, ij gills aspic cream, i dessert- spoonful meat glaze or Lemco, seasoning, Jfglass sherry.78 Recherche 'Entrees. Line or mask a plain charlotte mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and decorate the sides and bottom with thin slices of tongue and truffle as shewn in the illustration. Cut the sweetbread into cube shapes, the ham and the remainder of tongue and the mushrooms into fine strips, put these in a basin and pour over the wine, also a little aspic made liquid and mixed with the meat glazie. Now mask the inside of the prepared mould with a coating of aspic cream. Mix the remainder of aspic cream with an equal quantity of aspic jelly and pour over the sweetbread, etc. Stir this gently on the ice. When it begins to set, fill the mould with it, and allow the shape to set on the ice. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a few seconds and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Chop some set aspic jelly, and put a little round the base of the dish for table. It is then ready. Filets de Veau a la Garibaldi. (Fillets of Veal, Garibaldi Style.) ij lb. fillet of veal, i to 2 shallots, 2 07. butter, i gill veloute sauce, i glass Chablis, J lb. short crust paste, J lb. spaghetti (cooked), ^ oz. grated cheese, i small lobster, J gill cardinale sauce, 2 truffles, seasoning. Cut the fillet of veal into rather thin slices, flatten each and cut into small heart shapes. Line a flan mould with the paste, prick the bottom, fill with dried peas or rice, and bake a golden brown. Unmould, and let cool. Melt the butter, fry in it the shallot (chopped finely), a pale colour, put in the veal, and cook over a quick fire for a few minutes ; pour off the butter, add the wine, reduce a little and moisten with the sauce veloute (seasoned). Cook gently for ten minutes. Cut the meat of the lobster into small dice, and heat up in the cardinale sauce, season to taste. Heat up the spaghetti in a little79 ’Entrees of Veal. white sauce, add the cheese and seasoning. Cut the truffle into thin slices, allow one for each veal fillet, chop the remainder, and mix with the spaghetti. Fill the paste crust with the latter, dress the veal fillets in the form of a crown, place a slice of truffle (glazed) on each fillet, and arrange the ragout of lobster neatly in the centre of the dish. Dish up, and put it in a sharp oven for a few minutes, then serve. Cotes de Veau a la Marguerite (Cold). (Veal Slices k la Marguerite.) I lb. young lean veal (fillet),2 carrots, i turnip, i onion, a bouquet garni, seasoning, aspic, i truffle, tarragon leaves, a mirepoix, J lemon, i oz. butter, white chaud- froid sauce, 2 eggs, celery and ham for garnish. Cut the veal into fairly thin fillets or slices, flatten and trim them a little, and range them into a saute-pan well, buttered and containing the mirepoix, which must b^ cut small. Put the butter, melted, over the top, season to taste, and set to cook quickly. Cover the pan with the lid, and cook in the oven for about 20 minutes, then add the juice of J a lemon, and continue to cook till the meat is tender. Take up the slices and place them under press till cold, then cut them into neat rounds or ovals. Coat each with chaud-froid sauce, which must be richly flavoured with veal essence and cream. Cook the white of eggs in a timbale mould, and when cold cut up into slices, then shape each like a marguerite, with a dot of truffle in the centre of each. Place them in the centre of the oval fillets, also tarragon leaves, and a thin strip of cucumber rind to form the stalk. Coat the whole with aspic. Dress on a dish containing a layer of set aspic, and garnish with heaps of finely shredded and seasoned celery and ham.Recherche Kntrees. 8o Filets de Veau d la Madeleine. >(Veal Fillets k la Madeleine.) About 2 lb. fillet of veal, 3 07. clarified butter, 3 oz. fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, i shallot, 2 oz. meat glaze, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of tarragon, a sprig of chervil, a sprig of chive, a few sprigs of parsley, 2 doz. new kidney potatoes, salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne, 8 fried bread croutes (size of fillets). Choose the veal of prime quality (pale pink and tender) cut it into eight even-sized slices of about a quarter of a pound each, beat them a little with the cutlet bat and trim neatly. Prepare the same number of bread croutons, about the size of the fillets, fry them in clarified butter and drain. Warm up the meat glaze in a small stewpan, work it with a small whisk, add gradually i oz. fresh butter, stir vigorously until it resembles a light creamy substance adding in the meantime the lemon juice, one finely chopped shallot, previously blended in butter, also the tarragon, parsley, chervil, and chive all finely chopped. Season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Parboil the cleaned kidney potatoes, drain them well, and fry them in butter to a nice light yellow, season with salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne. When done, sprinkle over with a little finely chopped parsley. Put 2 ounces of butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the fillets, let them brown on one side, then turn and let brown the other side over a quick fire. Season a little, dish upon the croutons. Place them on a round dish, put the potatoes in the centre or round the fillets in a row. Put a dessert-spoonful of the prepared sauce on each fillet, sprinkle over a few drops of meat glaze, and serve quickly.8i Entrees of Veal. C6telettes de Veau d la Parisienne. (Veal Cutlets, Parisienne Style.) 2 lb. neck of veal (best end), 2 oz. butter or olive oil, 2 shallots, I glass sherry, ij gills Madeira sauce, \ lemon, 2 table-spoonfuls cream, 8 croutons fried bread, parsley, fried or baked potato balls for garnish, seasoning. Trim the meat and divide it into 8 or 9 even-sized cutlets, flatten, trim each neatly, and season with pepper and salt. Put the butter or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, fry them over a quick fire on both sides, drain the fillets and put them on a plate. Pour off most of the fat in the saute-pan, add two peeled finely chopped shallots, fry them a little and dilute with a small glass of sherry, then add rather more than a gill of Madeira sauce, boil for a few minutes, add a pinch of cayenne or paprika, a few drops of lemon juice and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, stir well and work in the cream. Return the fillets and heat up carefully, but do not let it boil again. Dress the fillets in a circular row on a hot dish, placing a heart-shaped slice of fried bread crouton between each fillet. Fill the centre of the dish with small round potatoes (Pommes de terre Parisienne), sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley, pour the remainder of the sauce over the fillets and serve. Pommes de Terre Parisienne. Wash and peel i lb. of potatoes, scoop them with a vegetable cutter into small balls, blanch them carefully in salted water and drain them. Melt two ounces of clarified butter in a saute-pan ; when this is hot, put in the potatoes and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, season with salt, then bake them in the oven for a few minutes. F82 Recherche ~Entrees. Cotelettes de Veau a la Bretagne. (Veal Cutleta, Brittany Style.) Divide a small neck of veal into chops, trim and pare them like cutlets, and season with salt and pepper. Rub each side of the cutlets with a cut lemon, then dip in beaten egg and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them over a brisk fire in clarified butter in a saute-pan. When done and of a nice colour, drain and dish up round a bed of haricot bean puree, pour a little gravy or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish and serve. Grenadins de Veau. (Veal Grenadins.) 2 lb. cushion or fillet part of veal, \ lb. larding bacon (cut into strips), i shallot, 2 oz. butter, | glass sherry, J pint tomato sauce, seasoning, mashed potatoes, J pint green peas or beans. Cut the meat into round or oval slices, about \ of an inch thick, flatten each a little with a cutlet bat, dipped in cold water, and pare them into neat shapes. Insert strips of larding bacon by means of a larding needle in rows on top of each fillet or grenadin. Season with pepper and salt and fry^ a golden colour on both sides in butter. Take up the meat, peel and chop the shallot and fry a p;^le brown in the butter left in the pan in which the grenadins w^ere fried, pour off some of the fat, add the sherry, reduce a little and lastly add the sauce. Lay in the grenadins and allow to simmer gently for about 20 minutes. Dress the grenadins on a neatly shaped border of mashed potatoes, on a hot dish. Fill the centre with cooked and heated green peas or French beans cut small, pour the sauce round the base of the dish and serve.8.3 Entrees of Veal, Tete de Veau en'Tortue. (Calf’s Head en Tortue.) Blanch half a calf’s head, from which the brain has been removed, and soak the latter in cold water, then blanch it also. Put the head in a stewpan containing enough water to well cover it, add a small handful of salt and boil up, then skim, add I carrot, i peeled onion stuck with 2 cloves, i turnip, a small bouquet of herbs, parsley, thyme and bay-leaf. Allow the head to cook gently for about 2| to 3 hours, when done, take up and let cool a little, then remove the meat from the bones, return the latter to the stewpan with more water and continue to boil for stock. Cut the meat of the calf’s head into conveniently sized pieces, put them in a stew or braising pan, with a glass of sherry, I pint of brown (demi-glace) sauce, i gill of stock, 10 ■ preserved mushrooms and 1-2 sliced truffles. Allow the whole to cook gently for another half-hour, skim occasionally and dish up neatly on a hot dish. Garnish the dish with the brain, fried yolks of eggs (fried in olive oil), or hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, pickled gherkins, and fried croutons of bread, brushed over with meat glaze. In dishing, place the ear portion in the centre of the dish, arrange the decorative edibles as neatly as possible, because they add so much to the success of this dish. Note.—With the remainder of meat and the stock, a good mock-turtle soup may be prepared. Pieds de Veau d I’Horly, (Fried Calf’s Feet, Horly Style.) I pair calf’s feet, i carrot, i onion, J oz. flour, J gill vinegar, peppercorns, salt, oil, parsley, veloute sauce for coating, i egg, bread-crumbs, or frying batter, fat for frying, tomato sauce.84 Recherche ’Entrees. Wash and scald the calf’s feet. Bone the upper part and remove the shank bone. Slit them in two, and steep in cold water for one or two hours, then blanch them in salted water. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient water or stock to well cover. Add the carrot and onion sliced, and a few peppercorns. Cook slowly till tender. Drain, remove the bones, place the meat under press, and let cool. Next cut into convenient-sized oblong pieces. Prepare a dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Pour this over the pieces, and let soak for an hour. Drain the pieces of calf’s feet and coat with veloute sauce. Dip each piece into egg, crumb or drop into a light frying batter, then fry in hot fat a golden brown, drain, dish up and serve with hot tomato sauce. Paupiettes de Veau a la Jardiniere. (Veal Rolls with Mixed Vegetables.) Cut six or more thin slices from the cushion part of veal, flatten each and trim a little. Next spread one side of each with veal forcemeat. Roll the slices so as to give each the shape of a cork. Tie round each a thin slice of fat bacon, put them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper, salt and a little aromatic spice. Add a small sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, and a pint of white stock. Boil up quickly over the fire, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about half an hour. Baste occasionally. Drain the paupiettes, remove string and bacon fat, and trim each a little. Free the gravy from fat, reduce it well, and add a gill of Allemande or veloute sauce. Strain the sauce over the paupiettes, and keep hot. Have ready a mixture of cooked buds of cauliflower,XV PLUVIERS A LA MARIANNE. {p. l6g.) BOMBE DE VOLAILLE, TRIANON. (p. I35.)Entrhs of Veal. 85 carrot and turnip scooped out into small shapes, also some green peas and French beans. Toss them lightly in a little butter over the fire. Arrange a bed of potato puree on a dish, dress the paupiettes in pyramid form on this, sauce over with the sauce well reduced, surround with groups of jardiniere of vegetables on each side, sprinkle the top with a few drops of dissolved meat glaze, and serve hot. Veal Forcemeat for Paupiettes. Chop very finely half-pound of cooked veal. Soak in tepid water quarter-pound white bread, drain the bread well, mix with it a whole egg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and half a small onion finely chopped (previously boiled), mix well, season with pepi:>er, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and stir in a little cream or gravy. Use as directed. Queues de Veau a la Russe. (Calves’ Tails, Russian Style.) 201*3 calves’ tails, i glass Chablis wine, ij pints stock, 1 clove garlic, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme and i basil, 2 cloves, I small bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, frying batter and frying lard, tomato sauce. Wipe the tails with a damp cloth, cut them into small joints, then blanch and drain them, cook till tender in the stock and a little water, adding the wine, savoury herbs, parsley, etc., season to taste. Allow them to cool in the stock, chop a little parsley and mix with the frying batter. Drain the pieces of tail on a cloth, dip them in the pre- pared batter and fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with hot tomato sauce.86 Recherche Kntrees. Blanquette de Veau. (White Veal Stew.) i| lb. to 2 lb. cushion or fillet of veal, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 10 small button onions, i bouquet of parsley, thyme and marjoram, J gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon juice, seasoning. Cut the veal into neat square pieces, put it into a stew- pan with sufficient hot water to cover, add a good pinch of salt and the juice of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, and remove the scum. Now add the bouquet of herbs, and the onions, previously peeled. Cover and cook gently for about an hour. Pour off the stock and re- move the bouquet. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, but do not let it get brown, moisten with a pint of stock, boil up, skim, cook for ten minutes. Now add cream and egg yolks, and strain over the cooked veal. Add the mushrooms cut in halves or slices, reheat, without letting it actually boil, season to taste, dish up, garnish with fleurons, and serve hot. Goulash de Veau a la Hongroise. (Hungarian Veal Goulash.) IJ lb. lean veal, J lb. cooked new potatoes, 2 oz. butter, J small onion, i pint cream, paprika, pepper and salt. Free the meat from skin and sinews and cut it into dice-like pieces. Cut the potatoes into cubes. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the meat and fry lightly for several minutes, then add the onion, finely chopped, stir over the fire for about five minutes, season with salt and pepper and add the potatoes. Pour off the superfluous fat, mix carefully and moisten with the cream and a table-spoonful of rich white stock, season with sufficient paprika pepper to give the sauce a pink tint, and cook gently for about 20 minutes. It is best to_cookEntrees of Veal. 87 the goulash at the latter stage in a fireproof earthenware stewpan, in which it should be sent to table. Great care yiust be taken so as not to break the potatoes whilst cooking. Serve very hot. Veau Saut6 a la Milanaise. (Saut§ of Veal, Italian Style.) 2j lb. neck of veal (best end), 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, \ lb. bacon, i oz. butter, i carrot, i onion, 4 ripe tomatoes, i bay-leaf, i glass white wine, i pint gravy, 4 oz. macaroni or piccoli (cooked separately), salt, pepper, and sugar to season. Cut the veal into cutlets, remove the bones and skin and divide the meat into large dice or cub 3 shapes. Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with the flour. Cut the bacon into slices, melt the butter in a deep saute or braising pan, line it with the bacon and fry a little, then put in the meat and allow it to take colour. Peel the onion, insert two cloves, scrape the carrot, and add both to the above, also the bay-leaf. Moisten with the wine and the gravy, stir till it boils, then cover and let cook gently for 15 minutes. Blanch the tomatoes, skin them, cut them in halves or quarters and put with the stew, then continue to cook till the meat is tender. Take up the meat and tomatoes, strain the sauce and pour a little over the meat and tomatoes. Heat up the macaroni in the rest of the sauce. Reheat the meat and add a pinch of castor sugar. Dish up, put the macaroni in the centre and serve. Note.—The gravy may be made with the bones and trimmings of the meat. Noisettes de Veau a la Turenne. (Veal Cubes, Larded and Stewed.) Cut ij lb. of lean veal into even-sized cube shapes, insert a few strips of larding bacon in each cube. Melt88 Recherche Knirees. 2 oz. butter in a saute-pan, put in the meat, and fry over a quick fire for a few minutes. Then add 6 chopped mushrooms, 2 finely chopped shallots, and blend together Sprinkle over a dessert-spoonful of flour, stir and moisten with a gill of beef stock and a glass of Chablis, bring to the boil and simmer for 20 minutes. Season with salt, paprika, and pepper. Lastly add chopped parsley, \ gill of cream, and 2 yolks of eggs. Keep on the hot stove for another 20 minutes without boiling. Dish up and serve. Roulardines de Veau. (Small Veal Rolls on Skewers.) Cut 2 lb. of lean veal (fillet or cushion part), into 8-10 thin slices ; flatten each with a cutlet bat, trim them and season with salt and pepper. Have ready a mixture of finely chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, butter and aro- matic spice, spread one side of the veal slices with this, upon this place a thin slice of streaky bacon, and roll up each as neatly as possible, then fasten on to silver or wooden skewers. Melt about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan ; when hot put in the rolls of veal and fry them over a fairly quick fire long enough to take colour. Pour off the butter, moisten with enough demi-glace sauce or rich gravy to cover the bottom of the pan. Place a piece of buttered paper on top and finish cooking in the oven. Allow about 20 minutes for this and baste frequently. Serve in a deep entree dish and garnish with cubes of fried potatoes and groups of green peas or French beans.XVI. CAILLES ROTIES SOUS LA CENDRE. [p. 152.) NOIX DE BCEUF A LA VIART. [P- 103.)89 Entrees of Beef. Langue de Boeiif Brais6e aux Epinards. (Braised Ox-tongue with Spinach.) Procure a salted pickled or smoked ox-tongue, remove the wind pipe and the fat at end. Soak pickled or salted tongues for 2 hours, and a smoked tongue for 10-12 hours. Cook the tongue in a large stewpan with enough water to well cover it, add i onion stuck with 2 cloves and a few peppercorns. Cook gently for about 2 hours, take up, remove the skin whilst hot and place the tongue in another stewpan with J pint of tomato sauce and J pint of espagnole sauce, also a little gravy or stock. Cook slowly for another hour in the oven. Spinach.—Prepare 2 lb. of spinach. When washed, picked, and cooked with very little water and salt, drain it and rub through a fine sieve. Melt i oz. butter in a stewpan, fry in it one or two finely chopped shallots, put in the spinach and 2 table-spoonfuls of white or bechamel sauce. Heat up, season with salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. Cook for a few minutes and dish up. , Cut the tongue into slices. Range them on a bed of spinach. Pour round it some of the prepared sauce, and serve the remainder separately. Filet de Boeuf a la Ravigote (Cold). Trim, skin, and lard 3 lb. of fillet of beef, braise it in the usual manner, and allow to get cold, and brush it over with meat glaze, boiled up with a little of the gravy.90 Recherche 'Entrees. Make a herb butter or herb puree with a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, i table-spoonful of capers, 3 boned anchovies, i gherkin, 2 hard-boiled egg yolks, i peeled shallot, I table-spoonful of spinach green, and 2 oz. of butter. When well pounded, rub through a sieve, and season to taste. Dish up the fillet of beef, which may be previously cut into slices, force a little of the green puree on each side. Garnish with halves of tomatoes filled with mayonnaise and scraped horseradish, stuffed olives and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Decorate the meat tastefully with the remainder of green herb butter, and the side of the dish with set aspic cut into triangles. Insert 2 small hatelets or skewers, decorated with mushrooms, etc. The dish is then ready to serve. Filets de Bceuf aux Bananes. (Small Fillets of Beef with Bananas.) About 2J lb. fillet of beef, 4 bananas, i gill cream, meat glaze, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 2 oz. butter, i small onion, 2 yolks of egg, horseradish, frying fat, flour and bread-crumbs. Trim the meat and cut it crossways into six or more even-sized fillets, pare these neatly and season with salt and pepper. Broil both sides of the fillets in butter over a quick fire for about eight minutes, take up, glaze over with meat glaze, and keep hot. Have ready the onion finely chopped, blanched, drained, and fried without browning in the butter in which the fillets were cooked ; add the cream ; stir till hot (not boiling). Add the yolks of egg and let bind, then rub it through a sieve and keep hot. Peel the bananas, slit each in two and divide in halves crossways. Dip in flour, egg, and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot clarified butter fat.91 'Entrees of Beef. Dish up the fillets on a hot dish. Mix a little finely grated horseradish with the sauce, and put a dessert- spoonful of it on top of each fillet. Sprinkle over a little liquid meat glaze and chopped parsley, garnish the dish with fried bananas and serve with rich brown sauce. Filets de Boeuf a la Viennoise. (Fillets of Beef, Viennese Style.) ij lb. lean beef, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i tea- spoonful savoury herbs, 3 oz. butter, i table-spoonful flour, 3 onions, 2 eggs, ij gills demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, cayenne and nutmeg. Remove the sinews from the meat, cut it into small pieces and chop very fine, or pass twice through the mincing machine. Add the chopped parsley, savoury herbs, a little flour, one yolk and one whole egg, and mix well. Season with salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Make this up into even-sized balls, flatten each to give them the shape of round fillets. Peel and slice the onions, cut some of the slices from the centre of each onion rather thicker than the rest, divide the rings carefully, and reserve the largest for frying separately. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the onions to a golden brown. Put them in a small stewpan with sufficient brown sauce to keep moist, and allow to simmer gently for about twenty minutes Dredge the prepared fillets with a little flour, and fry in butter in a saute-pan. Dip the onion rings into flour, then into white of egg, and again into flour. Place them in a frying basket and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Dish up the fillets, put a table-spoonful of stewed onions on the centre of each. Range the fried onion rings round the fillets. Sauce over the fillets with hot demi-92 Recherche Rntrees. glace sauce. Sprinkle over with a few drops of meat glaze and serve. Filets de Boeuf a la Jamaique. (Farced Fillets of Beef with Bananas.) Cut 6-8 small fillets of beef (centre cut), each weighing about 4 oz,, trim them into even shapes ; season them with pepper and salt and insert a sharp pointed knife through the flat part of each fillet, and divide thus without making the opening any larger than necessary. Force into the opening as much seasoned chicken quenelle meat as each incision of the fillet will permit. The quenelle meat should be of a cream-like consistency. Put the fillets in a saute-pan containing hot butter, and sauter them on each side quickly. Cover with a buttered paper, and finish cooking in a hot oven for 15 minutes, baste frequently. Dress them on croutons of fried bread neatly cut. Glaze over with liquefied meat glaze, and fill the centre of the dish with slices of peeled bananas, slightly seasoned with salt and pepper, dipped in milk and flour, and fried in clarified butter to a golden colour. Serve with a sauce made as follows :—Reduce j gill white wine, J gill vinegar with a table-spoonful of chopped shallots, then add a table-spoonful of meat glaze, a gill of rich brown sauce, 4 chopped mushrooms, and a table- spoonful of chopped Bengal chutney, season and let the whole simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. CcEurs de Filets de Boeuf a la Rossini. About 2\ lb. fillet of beef, J gill Lucca oil, 2 oz. butter, I shallot, 6 large chicken livers, 4 oz. foie gras, i truffle, pepper and salt, 8 round slices of fried bread, demi-glace sauce, meat glaze. Pare the fillet and cut it into six even-sized slices aXVII. NOISETTES DE MOUTON, RENAISSANCE. [p. IO9.) CHAPON A LA DAUPHINE. [p. 120.)'■■A ' : -:''€v^ -:4-:^.-., Ks \ N Nt C-, \ a'.?-'' ^' ’ • K*?-- *^’-’ ■■{'. *. ■:< -■ '> ->g^ . ^ >■ r . ■■ ■■• , -i-f , ' ^ ■' ■ ;«'■ •> i‘, ■ ■ ■ sr ^ • ■ \ \ -k* ’.*:'/ '^. ? c l^y^-'-'- 'jj? i- ' J ■v.>Entrees of Beef. 93 quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly ; each slice should weigh about 4 ounces when trimmed. Put the oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the fillets and cook over a quick fire ; they should be rather underdone unless otherwise ordered, they will take-from 5 to 7 minutes at the most. When done place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with meat glaze. Prepare beforehand the following farce. Wash the livers, cut them into thin slices, fry the finely chopped shallot in butter, put in the liver and toss over the fire for a few minutes, season, pound in a mortar with the foie gi'as, and a large table- spoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve, divide the farce into 8 portions, and spread over one side of the fillets, place each on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat glaze, dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each and serve with demi-glace sauce. Filets Mignons a la Richmont. (Small Fillets of Beef, Richmont Style.) 2 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 24 preserved mush- rooms, 2 truffles, salt, pepper, lemon juice, Madeira sauce. Cut the fillets into 8 slices of even size and thickness, trim each neatly and season with pepper and salt. Melt I 07. of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the fillets and fry them on one side, then turn them and cover the fried side with finely chopped mushrooms seasoned with a little sauce and lemon juice. Place remainder of butter on top and cover with a buttered paper. Put the pan in the oven and cook fillets thus for another 10 minutes. Take up the fillets and range them on a hot dish, place a slice of truffle on top of each in the centre of the mushroom puree. Pour enough hot Madeira sauce round the base of the dish and serve hot.94 Recherche Entrees. Tournedos d la Seymour. (Small Fillets of Beef, Seymour Style.) Cut I lb. of fillet of beet into 8 thin slices, trim them and cook them in butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire. Season to taste and place each on an artichoke bottom, previously heated in stock, and seasoned. Dish up in a circle, cover each with a well reduced Bearnaise sauce, place a thin round of truffle on top of each, and fill the centre of the dish with stuffed French olives. Sauce over with demi-glace and serve. Petits Tournedos a la Choron. 6-8 very small fillets of beef, 6-8 oval or heart shaped bread croutons, 6-8 small artichoke bottoms, 2 oz. butter, I pint green peas “ au beurre,” i lb. new kidney potatoes, Bearnaise sauce, tomato puree. Trim and pare the fillets, i.e., tournedos, into oval shapes, grill or broil them in the usal way, rather under done, season them, and dish up on thin glazed croutes of fried bread. Garnish the dish with small artichoke bottoms (trimmed with a fluted cutter and scooped out slightly), fill them with green peas tossed in butter, and range on the side of the dish ajso cube-shaped pieces of new potatoes, tossed in butter, and baked in the oven. Fill the centre of the dish with Bearnaise sauce well flavoured with tomato. Dress the fillets neatly on a hot dish and serve. Chateaubriand a la Scribe. (Double Fillet of Beef, Scribe Style.) Cut two or more double fillets of beef weighing about 6-8 ounces each. Trim and flatten slightly and season with pepper and salt. Grill them rather under- done, over or in front of a clear fire. Glaze them with dissolved meat glaze. Dish up the Chateaubriand andEnirks of Beef. 95 garnish the dish with small paste croustades filled with foie-gras ragout and Pommes Duchesse shapes. Send to table with a boat of Madere sauce. Pommes Duchesse. Wash and peel about i lb. mealy potatoes, boil until done, drain off the water and let them dry in the oven for a few minutes covered over. Rub them quickly through a wire sieve and whilst warm mix with three yolks of eggs, I oz. of clarified butter and a table-spoonful of cream, then season with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg ; when well mixed, turn out on a floured board and divide into twelve parts of equal size. Give each the shape of a square, lay them on a buttered baking sheet, egg the surface and trace a few lines with a knife. Bake them in a quick oven, and dish up. Tournedos de Boeuf a I’Anna. Cut 8-9 slices from a fillet of beef, trim and flatten each a little, and shape into tournedos. Peel about i doz. washed kidney potatoes and slice them thinly, place 8-9 greased pastry hoops, the same size as the tournedos, on a greased baking sheet ; three- parts fill each with slices of potatoes, previously dipped in oiled butter, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour . Meanwhile cook the tournedos in a saute-pan, contain- ing 2 oz. of butter heated, fry them on both sides, but do not cook them through. Take them up, pour off the butter from the saute-pan and add a glass of Chablis, a few drops of lemon juice and a gill of demi-glace sauce ; boil up, skim, season and reduce a little. Dress the fillets on the potato shapes, previously placed on a hot dish, put a table-spoonful of hot Bear-Recherche Knirees. 96 naise sauce on each fillet or tournedo. Pour the pre- pared sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. -Tournedos de Boeuf d la St. Jean. (Little Fillets of Beef with Stuffed Olives.) 8 very small fillets of beef, i8 stuffed olives, 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 ripe tomatoes, i oz. butter, \ gill Bearnaise sauce, I dessert-spoonful meat glaze or Lemco, i gill brown sauce, salt, pepper, i truffle for garnish. Flatten the fillets and trim into neat rounds, then season. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the fillets, and broil them over a quick fire so as to brown the surface of each ; they should be rather under- done. Have ready the artichoke bottoms, trimmed neatly and heated up in a little stock enriched with the meat glaze ; in the same stock heat the olives. Place each fillet on an artichoke bottom and on top put a slice of tomato. Reheat in the oven for 5 minutes, then dish up. Pour a teaspoonful of Bearnaise sauce enriched with a little meat glaze over the tomato slices and in the centre place a star-shaped piece of truffle. Dress the olives in the centre of the dish. Add a little of the stock above referred to, to the sauce, and boil up. Pour this round the base of the dish and serve hot. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Ventadour. Cut some small fillets of beef and flatten them slightly with a wetted cutlet bat, trim each neatly, season with salt and pepper, and fry in a saute-pan with sweet oil (Huile de Provence). Dress the fillets in the form of a crown or border on a hot dish, place a thin slice of beef marrow, previously blanched and cooked in the oven on each fillet, also a thin slice of truffle. Fill the centre withXVIIl. POULARDE OU CHAPON EN CHAUDFROID. {Suggested style of di'essing.) POULPETONS DE ROGNONS, PARMENTIER. (/;. [/.)».-V • : . Y r' ■ V b \ s . ».■ -<■ \ • I i V v« .. • X- x- V, \ \ *» » j N. \ ■ K . , \ •ip* \ ‘ V v,» ‘i -j \ -3f -■ V"v V > 3S . \ ■ : i I i V iEnirks of Beef. 97 artichoke pur4e made hot and suitably seasoned. Sauce over carefully with Colbert sauce and serve quickly. Tournedos de BcBuf d la Kalisch. Trim neatly 6-8 small tournedos of beef cut from the fillet, trim them neatly and saute them on both sides in butter over a brisk fire. Have ready as many flat oval cake shapes of “ rissoto,” i.e., savoury rice flavoured with tomato and dress the tournedos on these. Fry the same number of eggs, the same as “ oeufs sur plat,” stamp them out and place one on top of each fillet. In the centre of each egg yolk, place a glazed slice of truffle. Dish up neatly, pour a rich perigord sauce round the tournedos, and send to table. Tournedos de Boeuf a I’Othello. Pare and cook small fillets of beef the same as directed for “ Contre-filets a la Hongroise,” but use fillet of beef in place of sirloin steak. Dress each Tournedos-fillet on a fried crouton of bread of similar size. On top of each place a fried egg, cut out neatly. Sauce over with Perigord sauce and garnish the dish with straw potatoes and cooked green peas. Tournedos de Boeuf ^ la Bordelaise. Cut about 2 lb. of fillet of beef (middle cut), into neat \ inch thick slices, flatten, trim and season them. Saute the fillets in butter over a good fire, turning them after the sides have become slightly browned. Cut as many slices of beef marrow as there are fillets, blanch them and heat up in a saute-pan. Take up the fillets and the marrow and range them on a hot dish. Pour off the fat in the pan and add to the remaining essence a gill and a half of Bordelaise sauce. Heat up and pour over the fillets. Q98 Recherche Entrees. This dish is sometimes garnished with cooked green peas ; this, however, is quite optional, and is not as a rule served with “ Filets Bordelaise.” Contre-Filets de Boeuf ^ la Hongroise. (Sirloin Steaks, Hungarian Style.) 2 slices of sirloin steak (Jin. thick), 2 oz. butter, i hmffie, J bunch of carrots, cassolettes of hominy, semo- lina, 6 eggs, meat glaze, perigord sauce, and seasoning. Cut 6 oval tournedo shapes from the sirloin steaks, and trim them neatly, and season them. Saute them on both sides in a saute-pan with butter over a quick fire. Have ready eight fried cassolette shapes of hominy or semolina. Scoop out as many ball shapes of carrots as are needed to fill the above. Cook them in salted water, drain and finish them in a richly flavoured paprika sauce. Fry the eggs the same as “ oeufs sur plat,” stamp them out and place one on top of each fillet as soon as they are dished up. In the centre of each egg-yolk placed a glazed slice of truffle. Fill the cassolette shapes with the prepared carrots and range them round the fillets. Have ready a rich perigord (truffle) sauce, and send it to table with the dish of fillets. Contre-Filet a la Demidoff. (Braised Sirloin Steak, Demidoff Style.) 4 lb. sirloin of beef (best part), larding bacon, J pint tomato puree, i table-spoonful meat glaze, J gill Espag- nole sauce, i glass Marsala or sherry, i8 stuffed olives, 3 truffles, i8 mushrooms, i carrot, i onion and bouquet, I oz. dripping or butter. Bone the meat and remove the fat ; trim and lard one side neatly. Put it in a braising-pan on a bed of vege- tables (carrot, onion peeled and sliced, and bouquet, and bacon trimmings) ; add the dripping or butter, and cook99 Knirees of Beef. in the oven till half-done ; baste frequently. Pour off the fat, and add the tomato puree, the wine, and the meat glaze. Season with pepper and salt ; cover, and return to the oven to cook for another twenty minutes. Skim, take up the meat and put it in another stew-pan, strain over the sauce, and add to this the Espagnole, the olives, slices of truffle, and preserved mushroom heads. Simmer gently for another lo minutes. To dish up, cut the meat into thin slices, and arrange on a hot dish. Group the truffles, mushrooms, and olives round the meat, over pour the sauce and serve hot. Timbale de Boeuf d la Bourbonnaise. (Timbale of Beef.) Slice finely and pound in a mortar | lb. of fillet of beef free from skin and sinews. When quite smooth add the white of an egg and i J gills of cream. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a suitably sized timbale mould and line it well with the prepared farce. Three-parts fill the interior with a ragout of chicken fillets (cooked and cut into dice), cock’s combs and kernels, champignons and truffles, moistened with Allemande or other rich white sauce. Cover so as to fill the mould completely with beef farce, and steam the shape in the oven for about one hour. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and sauce over with hot demi-glace or Madere sauce and serve. Aiguillettes de Boeuf en Casserole. (Larded Slices of Beef, Braised.) 2 thick slices of sirloin of beef, cut longwise, larding bacon, a clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, J pint claret, J pint stock, or brown sauce, i tin or bottle of cepes or morels (morilles), pepper and salt, meat glaze. Free the meat from fat, lard one side of each withlOO Recherche 'Entrees. strips of bacon, put the meat in a fireproof casserole, add pepper and salt, the wine, garlic and bay-leaves, and let it stand thus covered for six hours. Place it on the fire, adding the stock or sauce, let it come to the boil, skim and simmer very gently in the oven or on the stove for one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the meat. When done, take up, drain, place it on a dish, glaze the top with meat glaze. Skim the sauce, reduce well, heat up the cepes or morels in a little sauce, garnish the dish with this, and serve the remainder of gravy in a sauce-boat. Entrecotes k la St. Clair. (Sirloin Steaks, St. Glair Style.) Cut two or three steaks from a sirloin of prime beef, flatten each a little with a cutlet bat and trim sparingly. Brush over each steak with oiled butter, and grill them over or in front of a clear fire so as to brown each side. They must be quite underdone and juicy. Have ready some anchovy butter made by wiping and boning 6 Gorgona anchovies, pound these with an ounce of butter and rub through a hair sieve. Season the sirloin steaks, place them on a dish and spread over with the butter. Put the dish in a hot oven for a few moments, then gar- nish with straw potatoes (Pommes pailles), and serve quickly. Pommes Pailles or Straw Potatoes are made as follows: Wash and peel 4-6 large potatoes, pare each, cut them into very thin slices and shred them finely so that the shreds resemble straws or very fine strips. Wash them in cold water and drain on a cloth. When the potatoes are well drained and free from moisture, plunge them, not too many at a time, into very hot frying fat, using a frying basket for this purpose ; shake them well and fry them till they acquire a pale brown colour. ThenXT\’. DARIOLES DE FOIE-GRAS EN BELT E VUE. (^21.) COTELETTES DE PR^-SAI.E A LA NANTAISE. [p. io8.)lOI ’Entrees of Beef. take up, drain the potatoes thoroughly, sprinkle with enough fine table salt to season, and serve. Entrecotes Grilles Edouard VII. 2 to 3 sirloin steaks, 2 07. maitre-d’hotel butter, olive oil, salt and pepper, i gill well reduced tomato puree, I fried potato basket, 2 egg yolks, J a lemon, tarragon and chervil, cucumber garnishing, parsley, i gill veal gravy. Flatten and slightly trim the meat, brush it over with olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Then grill the steaks over or in front of good fire, allowing about 8 minutes for each side. The steaks should be decidedly underdone and juicy, and quite tender when taken from the fire. Cream the maitre-d’hotel butter, put it in a forcing bag with a rose tube, and force out 8-12 small rosettes on to a plate. Put this on the ice. Cut eight large potatoes into shapes of baskets, and fry them in hot fat. Peel a large cucumber, scoop out as many little ball shapes as possible, blanch them in salted water, drain and toss in fresh butter over the fire, season and besprinkle with chopped parsley. Dish up the steaks, cut them into sections. Sauce over carefully with a ribbon of tomato puree, blended with egg yolk, lemon juice and herbs, upon this place the maitre-d’hotel butter. Surround the steak with the potato baskets filled with the small cucumber balls. Serve with a boat of gravy blended with a little tomato puree. Entrecote de Boeuf en'Casserole. (Sirloin Steak in Stoneware.) 2 thick slices of sirloin of beef cut longwise, larding bacon, a clove of garlic, i bay-leaf, J- pint claret, pint brown sauce, meat glaze, gravy, i tin or bottle of cepes, salt and pepper.Recherche 'Enirees. 102 Remove the bone from the meat, and free it from fat, lard one side of each slice with strips of bacon, put the meat in an earthenware casserole, season and add the wine, garlic, and bay-leaves, and let it stand thus covered for two hours. Place it on the fire, adding the sauce ; boil up, skim, and simmer very gently in the oven or on the stove for about i J hours, according to the size of the meat. When done take up, drain, place it on a hot dish, glaze the top with meat glaze, skim the gravy, reduce well, heat up the sliced cepes and moisten with a little butter gravy. Garnish the dish with this and serve the re- mainder of the sauce separately. Queues do Boeuf d I’Alsacienne. (Braised Ox-tail d I’Alsacienne.) I ox-tail, 4 oz. bacon or ham trimmings, a small bouquet garni, stock, small smoked and boiled sausages for garnish, 2 oz. butter, celery root, i small onion sliced, I small glass Cognac, demi-glace sauce, seasoning. Cut the ox-tail into joints about 2 inches long, soak them in lukewarm water for an hour, take up, drain, and fry carefully in a braising-pan containing the butter, bacon, parsley root, onion and herbs. When well blended add the brandy (Cognac), season with salt and pepper, and cook well covered with stock in the oven for about an hour. Remove the fat from the surface, strain off the liquor, and reduce it with the sauce, then add it to the ox-tail, and finish cooking in the sauce till quite tender. Dish up on a hot dish piled up high. Pour the sauce carefully over the pieces. Garnish with fried sausages and grated horseradish and serve. Queues de Boeuf d la Soubise. (Fried Ox-tail with Onion Pur6e.) Wipe an ox-tail with a damp cloth and cut into sec- tions. Cook them till tender in well seasoned stock, then103 Entrees of Beef. take up, drain and let them get cold. Egg and bread- crumb them carefully and fry a golden brown in clarified butter. Dish up and serve with a Soubise puree made as follows : Peel and slice 5 onions (i lb.), blend these in butter without browning. Add i oz. of butter and moisten with J pint milk and white stock. Cook till quite tender and rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste and finish with a little bechamel sauce. Noix de Boeuf d la Viart. Trim neatly into a cushion shape about 4 lb. of prime rump of beef (centre part). Lard the surface with strips of larding bacon and raw ham, then braise it in the usual way with a rich mirepoix (see page 131), flavoured with white wine, etc. When done, take up the meat and let it cool, glaze it, incorporating some aspic with the glaze ; the latter to be flavoured with the braize liquor. Dish up the meat when set, decorate it neatly with some creamed herb butter and surround the dish with groups of cooked and glazed chestnuts, young carrots, and cardoons or celery, the latter cut in 2in. pieces and also glazed. Serve with a boat of mayonnaise, blended with enough tomato pulp to give it a red tint. Petits Pains de Mauviettes, Prepare a farce as directed for ‘‘ Zephires de Per- dreaux ” on page 163, using 8 boned and skinned larks, and Jib. of liver farce in place of partridge, and proceed to make the farce in the manner described. Fill up 7 small buttered timbale moulds and steam them for about 40 minutes. Unmould the shapes on to a hot dish, insert 2 lark legs, previously cleaned and braised, into each timbale, also a glace cherry. Pour a nicely flavoured game sauce over and round the shapes and serve hot.104 Recherche Entrees. Entrees of Lamb and Mutton. C6telettes d’Agneau d la Maxime (Cold). (Lamb Cutlets, Maxime Style.) 2 lb. best end neck of lamb, J lb. liver farce, 6 leaves of French leaf gelatine, J pint tomato sauce, J pint be- chamel sauce, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Trim the neck neatly, cut off the bone ends, season with salt and pepper, and braise for about one hour in the usual way on a bed of mirepoix (vegetable and bacon) ; when done, set to cool. Prepare a farce as described below, cut the meat into cutlets, trim them, season with pepper and salt, and cover one side with a thin layer of the farce. Dissolve the gelatine and strain separately into the sauces, allowing three leaves for the tomato sauce and three leaves for the bechamel sauce. Stir the sauces for some minutes and season to taste. When sufficiently cool, coat the covered sides of the cutlets alternately with white sauce and tomato sauce. Place the cutlets after being well masked on to a wire tray, and keep on the ice until quite set. Dish up in a circle, put a dressed salad in the centre of the dish, place a paper ruffle on each cutlet, and serve. Farce for Cutlets Maxime. \ lb. calf’s liver, J lb. bacon, i small carrot, a small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), i small onion, i clove, I small blade mace, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Cut up the bacon and fry it, slice the liver and add to the bacon, fry a little, then put in the carrot and onion'Entrees of Lamb. 105 sliced, also the herbs, etc., and season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. When cooked sufficiently, remove herbs, etc., and pound the remainder in a mortar, add the foie gras with the liver. Rub through a sieve, when the farce is ready for use. C6telettes d’Agneau a la Dantzig (Cold). (Lamb Cutlets, Dantzig Style.) I neck of lamb, i tin or terrine foie gras pate, 2 oz. butter, I tongue, i white of egg, i truffle, \ pint white chaudfroid sauce, ij gills aspic jelly, i table-spoonful cream, 2 table-spoonfuls cooked peas, 2 tomatoes, may- onnaise sauce, vegetable macedoine, seasoning. Trim the neck neatly, cut it into small cutlets, season with salt and pepper, make the butter hot in a saute-pan, fry the cutlets and press until cold. Pound the foie gras and tongue in a mortar, add the cream, and a little white sauce, moisten with sufficient aspic to make it set, rub it through a fine sieve and mix with it a little truffle (finely chopped). Trim the cutlets, cover them completely with the farce, allow the farce to set, then mask with the chaudfroid sauce, previously mixed with enough green pea puree to give it a greenish tint (a little spinach colouring may be added if neces- sary). Ornament one side of each cutlet with fancifully cut slices of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Set the garnish with a little aspic jelly. When the garnish is set, coat each cutlet with half-set aspic. Have ready a border mould filled with a macedoine of vegetables neatly set in aspic and range the cutlets on the border. Prepare a salad seasoned with mayonnaise composed of peeled and thinly cut tomatoes, green peas, and macedoine of vegetables, fill the centre of the dish with this and serve..Recherche Entrees. io6 Cotelettes d’Agneau Farcies d la Frangaise. (Farced Lamb Cutlets, French Style.) 8 lamb cutlets, i pig’s caul, i oz. butter, chicken or liver farce, i truffle, i egg, bread-crumbs, fat to fry, pepper and salt, sauce. Trim and shape the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, put them in a saute-pan, with i oz. of butter pre- viously heated, fry the cutlets lightly over a quick fire. (The cutlets must not be allowed to fry long and should be quite underdone when taken up). Drain, put to press between 2 boards, when cold, pare and trim neatly. Have ready some chicken or liver farce, chop the truffle finely, and mix with the farce. Cover each side of the cutlets with the farce, wrap up each in pig’s caul, egg and crumb, (twice if necessary), shape neatly and place in a wire basket. Fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard ; drain, dish up and serve with Perigord sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Russe (Cold). 3 lb. best end neck of lamb, 4 sheets gelatine, 4 hard- boiled eggs, seasoning, i gill stiff mayonnaise, a gill aspic jelly, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i oz. butter, seasoning. Cooked green peas and set aspic for garnish. Trim the neck, removing skin and bone, and shorten the rib bones. Wrap the neck in buttered paper and cook it in the stock-pot till tender ; when cold, cut into cutlets and shape them neatly. Have ready the yolks of eggs, rub them through a wire sieve, work in the anchovy essence, season with salt and pepper, and add the butter. Spread the right side of the cutlets with the egg farce, then mask them with the mayonnaise sauce, to which the gelatine, previously soaked and melted and strained, has been added. Dish up the cutlets when set, garnish with small cress, or any other salad. Garnish107 Entrees of Lamb. the dish further with chopped aspic jelly, and the halves of the eggs filled with remainder of egg farce, with a row of green peas on top. Cotelettes d’Agneau Marienbad.* (Lamb Cutlets, Marienbad Style.) 8-10 well trimmed lamb cutlets, J pint endive or chicoree puree, demi-glace sauce, 2 oz. butter, J pint tin champignons, 4 oz. pounded lean lamb, 2 egg yolks, seasoning. For Croutons :—3 oz. vermicelli, 2 egg yolks, \ gill bechamel. For Garniture :—Asparagus tips. Flatten the cutlets lightly. Saute one side of each in a saut 6-pan containing the butter, and put them under press to cool. Meanwhile prepare a farce by chopping finely the preserved mushrooms, and adding to it the endive puree, pounded meat, and egg yolks. Season to taste, and mix thoroughly. Spread the cooked sides of the cutlets with this mixture. Range the cutlets, farced side uppermost, in the saute-pan with the butter, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about 15 minutes. Prepare croutons by boiling the vermicelli in slightly salted water till tender. Drain and mix with enough bechamel to form a thick puree, to this add 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, and spread on a plate or dish when the puree has been made hot. When cold stamp out as many cutlet-shaped croutons as there are cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in deep fat. Drain well, and dress a cutlet on each. Dish up in the form of a crown. Fill the centre with cooked asparagus tips, seasoned and tossed in a little fresh butter. Pour some demi-glace sauce round, and serve. * Adapted from M. C. J. Corblet’s MSS.io8 'Recherche ’Entrees. Cotelettes d’Agneau d la Nantaise. (Lamb Cutlets, Nantese Style.) 8 good-sized lamb cutlets, \ lb. veal or chicken force- meat, seasoning, i large truffle or i table-spoonful truffle peelings, 2 oz. chopped cooked ox-tongue, i oz. butter, I gill brown sauce, i egg, i dessert-spoonful meat glaze or Lemco. Pare and flatten the cutlets, then trim them neatly and fry one side of each in butter. Drain them and season both sides with salt and pepper. Mix the force- meat with a little cream or white sauce, and spread a layer of this on the cooked side of each cutlet. Brush over the coated sides with white of egg and cover com- pletely with a mixture of finely chopped truffle and tongue. Place the cutlets, raw side down, into the saute-pan containing the butter and fry for 5 minutes, then pour off the fat, and add the brown sauce and the meat glaze previously diluted with a little water. Cover the pan and cook in the oven for about 20 minutes. Dish up the cutlets as shown in the illustration. Place a cutlet frill on each bone. Strain the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Brochettes d’Agneau, Turbigo. (Grilled Boned Lamb Chops.) Bone a good-sized loin of lamb, including part of the neck if necessary, cut it into fairly thick chops. About 9 will be required for a full service. Flatten them lightly and trim neatly. Skewer each and season with salt and pepper and brush over with butter, then grill them care- fully in front of or over a good bright fire, allowing about six minutes for each side. Heat up in butter 9 small slices of natural foie gras, season with paprika and salt. Have ready a gill of fairly stiff allemande sauce mixed with sufficient pimiento butter to give it a red tint, also i gill of flageolet puree.XX RIS d’agneau en caisses. {p. 30.) PETITS SOUFFLES DE FOIE DE VEAU. {p. 23.) CASSOLETTES DE GIBIER {P- 25.)V'Entrees of Mniion. 109 Dish up the brochettes or chops, removing the skewers. Range them on an oblong entree dish, on a Duchesse border. Put a slice of foie gras on each chop and cover with the prepared sauce. Coat the slices of foie gras and force out a rosette of flageolet pur6e in the centre of each. Pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Note.—Pimiento butter is made by pounding i oz. of Spanish pimientos with i oz. of fresh butter and rubbed through a sieve. Noisettes de Mouton d la Renaissance (Cold). I small loin of mutton, 2 oz. butter, seasoning. For the Farce.—4 oz. streaky bacon, 6 oz. calf’s liver, I oz. butter, aromatic seasoning, i truffle, 6 mush- rooms, 2 yolks of eggs, J gill of espagnole sauce, J glass Mad ere. Mince the bacon and fry in the butter. Add the calf’s liver, cut in thin slices, and toss over the fire. Add the wine, brown sauce, and season. Boil up and pound in the mortar, then rub through a sieve. Re-heat, incor- porate the egg yolks, chopped truffle, and mushrooms (preserved), and use as directed. For the Border.—6 slices of ox-tongue, 3 slices beetroot, i truffle, macedoine of young carrots, young turnips, French beans, asparagus, green peas, and artichoke bottoms, prepared and cut into suitable shapes, dice, balls, etc., and then cooked separately in salted water and drained, ij gills mayonnaise, J gill tomato puree, ij gills aspic, seasoning. Bone and trim the loin of mutton, pare off most of the fat, cut the meat into neat fillets, season with salt and pepper, and fry quickly in the butter for a few minutes only, then press the fillets, and let them get cold. Trim again, andI lO Recherche Entrees. coat one side of each with the prepared farce as above directed. Poach them with a little stock in the oven, and when cold, mask each with Bokar sauce. (See Sauces.) Line the inside of a border mould previously masked with a thin layer of aspic, with thin slices of cooked ox- tongue and strips of truffle. Next run over the decorated portion another layer of aspic, and fill the mould with the following preparation :— Shred the remainder of tongue, cut the beetroot into thin strips, to this add a cupful of mixed cooked vege- tables, and mix carefully with J gill of tomato puree, J gill of mayonnaise, and a gill of aspic. Season to taste. Mix the remainder of mayonnaise, aspic and tomato puree together, and season with it the remainder of vege- tables. Dress these daintily into the centre of the border when turned out. Range the noisettes neatly coated with Bokar chaud- froid sauce and decorated upon the border. The dish is then ready to serve. Cotelettes de Mouton St. Germain. Pare and trim 8-io mutton cutlets, season with salt and pepper, and egg and crumb them in fresh bread- crumbs. Dip each in oiled butter, then grill them care- fully over or in front of a bright fire. Have ready prepared, 6 aubergines, cut in halves, saute them quicldy in olive oil, drain and fill them with a green pea puree. Range them on a hot entree dish, dress the cutlets on top, adjust paper frills on the cutlet bones, and serve with a light Bearnase Sauce. (See Sauces.) Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise. (Mutton Cutlets, Soubise Style.) A best end of a neck of mutton, Soubise puree, 2 oz. butter, pepper and salt, demi-glace sauce. (See Sauces.)Ill Entrees of Mutton. Saw off the upper rib bones from the neck, leaving the bones which will form the cutlets about three inches long; then saw off the chine bone and cut off each cutlet, trim neatly, scraping the skin and fat clean off about half an inch of the top of each bone. Arrange the cutlets in a saute-pan containing i oz. of hot butter, season with pepper and salt, cook the cutlets to a nice brown on each side. Dish up and serve with Soubise puree in the centre, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish and serve. Soubise Pur^e. Peel 2 large Spanish onions or 4 small onions, blanch them, drain and cut into slices, cook them till tender in seasoned milk and stock. Rub through a fine sieve, return to the stew-pan and reduce with J gill of bechamel sauce. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a pinch of castor sugar. Finish with a little cream and use as • directed. Cotelettes de Mouton d la Byron. Cut, trim, and flatten 8 or more large mutton cutlets, insert in equal proportions with a larding needle across the lean part some strips of raw ham and larding bacon. Put the cutlets in a saute-pan with the trimmings (minus the fat), a small sliced carrot, half an onion stuck with a clove, and a slice of parsley root or celery. Add half a pint of rich stock, season with pepper and salt, and allow to cook slowly for about half-an-hour. When done, drain the cutlets, press them between two baking sheets, and let cool. Add a gill of espagnole sauce to the liquor, reduce well, skim and strain. Add a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped parsley and three tarragon leaves to the sauce, mask the cutlets with this, and let cool again. Dip in'Recherche Knirees. 112 beaten egg and milk, roll in fresh bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat or butter. Drain them on a cloth and dish up in a circle. Have ready a ragout of sheep’s kidneys, pile these in the centre of the dish, put a few warmed green peas on top, adjust paper frills on the cutlet bones, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton k la Gelee. (Mutton Cutlets in Savoury Jelly.) I neck mutton, i pint stock, 2 dessert-spoonfuls meat gla/e or Lemco, i egg, i pint aspic, i tomato, mixed salad, mayonnaise, J cucumber. Procure the best end of a neck of mutton (about 8 ribs), trim off the superfluous fat, saw off the chine bone and pare into a neat shape. Tie up the trimmed neck in a piece of greased paper and cook it in richly seasoned stock for about hours. When done take it up and let it get cold under press. Reduce J pint of the stock in which the meat was cooked, carefully remove all the fat, and add the meat gla;2e, then reduce further to the consistency of “ half-glaze.” Cut the cooked neck into cutlets, trim and pare each neatly, and hr .sh over both sides with the prepared “ half-glaze.” Pour a thin layer of half-set aspic jelly in a large saute-pan or clean baking sheet. When just set, place in the cutlets and coat them with aspic. Decorate each cutlet with a star- shaped slice of hard-boiled egg, the centre of which has been stamped out and refilled with a small round of tomato chilli, truffle or gherkin. Pour over some more aspic so as to cover the cutlets completely. Place them on the ice to set. Prepare a mixed salad composed of lettuces, endive and cress, season with salt and pepper and a little mayonnaise dressing. Put this neatly in the centre of a round dish. Cut out carefully the cutlets set in aspic, and range them neatly on a bed of salad ; garnish tastefully with slices of cucumber,__sprigs of113 Enirees of Miiiion. endive, etc., and chopped aspic or savoury and the dish is then ready for serving. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Princesse. (Mutton Cutlets, Princess Style.) 8 mutton cutlets, seasoning, bread-crumbs, oil, a salpicon of sweetbread, truffle, chicken liver, i egg yolk, J pint allemande or supreme sauce, butter. Flatten and trim the cutlets neatly, season with salt, dip in oil, and broil or grill rather rare (underdone) over a bright fire. Prepare a salpicon by mincing finely equal quantities of sweetbread and chicken liver (both being previously cooked), and add a chopped truffle. Season with salt, pepper and aromatics, and heat up with enough white sauce to moisten. When hot, bind with one yolk of egg and spread on a plate to cool. Press the cutlets as soon as done. When cold, spread the cutlets all on the same side with the salpicon, smooth over the surface, and mask each carefully with cold supreme sauce, then sprinkle over with bread-crumbs or Panurette, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the cutlets, put them on a greased baking tin in as sharp oven for five or six minutes. Dress the cutlets on a hot dish, pour some hot demi-glace round the base and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton d la R§forme. (Mutton Cutlets, Reform Style.) Pare, trim, and flatten 8-10 mutton cutlets in the usual way, and season them with salt and pepper. Mix a plateful of bread-crumbs with an ounce of finely chopped lean ham. Beat up an egg, crush over the cutlet with it, cover with the prepared crumbs, re-shape the cutlets, and fry them on both sides in clarified butter. H'Recherche 'Entrees. 114 Prepare a garniture consisting of strips of hard-boiled white of egg, cooked carrot, gherkins, and truffles, and ham or tongue, all cut like small matches (en julienne). Heat this up with a little butter and season carefully. Drain the cutlets, dish them up, and range the garniture in the centre or on the side of the cutlets. Pour round the base of the dish a sauce composed of demi-glace and pepper sauce (poivrade), blended with a little red cur- rant jelly and port wine. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Lion d’Or. (Mutton Cutlets, Golden Lion Style.) 8 thickly cut mutton cutlets (centre cut of neck), i small foie-gras pate, i piece lamb’s leaf fat, 4 oz. veal forcemeat, 2 oz. butter, 6 mushrooms, bread-crumbs, seasoning, Soubise sauce, and demi-glaze. Trim the cutlets and slit the side of each to the bone, but do not separate entirely. Prepare a puree with the foie gras and fill up the opening thus made with it, in- serting here a there a slice of truffle and mushroom ; close up, and fry the cutlets a little in butter. Season the raw forcemeat, mix with remainder of foie- gras puree, truffles and mushrooms (finely chopped), and cover each cutlet completely with this mixture. Wrap up in the leaf fat (or pig’s caul), egg, bread-crumb, and fry very carefully in a saute-pan containing sufficient hot clarified butter or lard to completely cover them. When done, drain, dish up in a circle, adjust frills on the bones, put some Soubise sauce in the centre and serve demi-glace round. For Soubise Sauce..—Use Soubise puree on page in, incorporate whilst hot with J gill of cream and a little be- chamel sauce, and season to taste.”5 EnirUs of Mutton. Cotelettes de Mouton d I’Americaine. (Mutton Cultets, American Style.) Trim 8 mutton cutlets, flatten, and pare them nicely ; season both sides with salt and pepper, and put in a saute-pan with 2 oz. of melted butter ; fry the cutlets a light brown on both sides, drain, and put them between two tin sheets with a weight on top. When cold, im- merse the cutlets in bechamel or other rich white sauce, so as to completely coat them. Place them on a wire tray and let cool. Crush finely a few cracknel biscuits, and roll the coated part of the cutlets in this, then dip them in beaten egg, and crumb with Panurette. Keep the bones of the cutlets perfectly clean. Fry them to a nice colour in hot clarified butter, drain and dish up in a circle. Fill the centre of the dish with sliced tomatoes tossed in butter and seasoned. Put small paper frills on the cutlet bones. Serve hot with cold cucumber sauce (see Sauces). Filets de Mouton a la Tyrolienne. (Fillets of Mutton, Tyrolean Style.) About 3 lb. best end of a neck of mutton, 6 small even- sized tomatoes, I2 button onions, i table-spoonful of chopped parsley, i gill of sweet oil, \ gill Orleans vinegar, I minced shallot, i bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, salt, 2 oz. ham, I gill demi-glace sauce, i gill stock, i oz. butter, I egg, bread-crumbs, frying fat. Remove the meat from the bones of the neck of mutton, cut it into 8 nice fillets, trim off some of the fat, and lay them in a marinade for twelve hours. The marinade in this case consists of the oil, vinegar, shallot, bay-leaf garlic, coarsely chopped parsley, and salt. It is advis- able to turn the fillets from time to time. Cut the tomatoes in halves, and squeeze out a little of the pulp.116 Recherche Entrees. Peel the button onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter ; when this is done pour off the l^utter, add the stock, and let come to the boil quickly ; skim well, and braise the onions in the oven until done. The stock should, by the time the onions are done, be reduced so as to glaze them completely. Put the butter left from the onions in a saute-pan, place in the tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and fry gently for a few minutes. Take out the fillets from the marinade, drain them on a cloth, then egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. They must not be cooked too slowly, else they will not be done by the time they are of the desired colour. Range the fillets neatly in a row in the centre of an oblong entree dish. Have ready the ham finely chopped and warmed in just sufficient brown sauce to moisten. Put a dessert- spoonful of the ham in each half of tomato, place a button onion on top of each, and garnish the dish with them. Pour the demi-glace sauce round the base of dish, and serve. Note :—The demi-glace should be well reduced with a table-spoonful of the marinade. Cotelettes de Pore d la Robert. (Pork Cutlets with Robert Sauce.) Cut 8 small pork cutlets from the best end of the neck of pork. Trim, flatten and pare neatly, leaving about half an inch of fat round each cutlet. Put the cutlets in a deep dish, season with pepper and salt and chopped parsley, pour over two table-spoonfuls sweet oil, allow them to remain in soak for half an hour, and turn them frequently. Drain the cutlets and broil them over a clear fire. They should be cooked through and will take from^fifteen to eighteen minutes. Dish up, and serve with Sauce Robert. (See Sauces.)XXI. PETITES MOUSSES DE CANETON A LA MORESCO. [p. I44,) ESCALOPES DE FOIE GRAS A LA GEl6e. {p. 22.)'Entrkts o’f Ham. 117 Mousse de Jambon (Cold). (Cold Ham Mousse.) J lb. lean cooked ham, J pint Espagnole sauce, i gill aspic jelly, ij gill cream, J oi. gelatine, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Take the lining of a silver-plated souffle case, tie round it a band of white paper (mousses, or souffles should have a risen appearance, and to obtain this the mould must be overfilled ; the paper band supports it). Pound ham (previously freed from fat) and sauce together in a mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. Put the aspic into a basin and whisk it till it becomes light and frothy ; whip up the cream and stir into it by degrees the pounded mixture, season well, then strain into it J oz. gelatine dissolved in a little stock, and a few drops of carmine to give it a nice pink colour ; lastly add the whisked aspic, which makes it light and frothy. Turn into prepared mould and put on the ice to set. When firm enough, garnish with chives and chopped truffles and pour a layer of half-set aspic over the top, allow to set, then remove band of paper, slip the mousse into the outer souffle case, it is then ready to serve. Souffle de Jambon a I’Espagnole. (Cold Ham Souffle.) J lb. cooked ham (lean), i oz. butter, i shallot, \ pint Espagnole sauce, i gill aspic jelly, \ oz. leaf gelatine, i gill cream, i white of egg, seasoning, salt, pepper and pap- rika. Cut the ham into dice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallot, peeled and minced finely, and fry a little, then put in the ham and fry over a quick fire for five minutes, put it in a mortar and pound finely, adding a little Espagnole sauce to moisten. Rub the whole through a fine sieve and put it in a stew-pan with the’Recherche Entrees. ii8 sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes, and season to taste. Then add. the aspic jelly and the gelatine, dis- solved and strained. Whisk the egg-white to a stiff froth and stir into the mixture before it is quite cool. Whip the cream and incorporate with the mixture. Stir over the ice till it commences to set, then pour into a prepared souffle dish, with a paper band attached. Keep it on the ice for about two hours. Remove the paper band, sprinkle the top with panurette seasoned with a good pinch of paprika or Krona pepper, and serve at once. Jamhon a la Bourgogne. (Braised Ham, Burgundy Style.) Soak a small York ham in cold water for 12 hours, and cook it in water for one hour. Take up, remove the rind and trim it neatly. Place the ham in a braising pan, adding i quart of gravy or thin brown sauce, 2 glasses of Burgundy wine, i bay-leaf, 3 peeled shallots, i carrot, and a few peppercorns. Cover the pan and cook in the oven for two hours or till the ham is tender. Take out the ham, free the liquor from fat and reduce it well with a little espagnole sauce, add also i table-spoonful of Worcester sauce and i teaspoonful of castor sugar. To serve, cut the required number of slices from the ham, dish up neatly, garnish the dish with braised lettuce, small potato croquettes, and mushroom heads. Strain over some of the sauce and serve.119 Entrees of Poultry. Mousse de Chapon a la Belle H61ene (Cold). (Mousse of Capon.) I capon, J lb. natural foie gras, 6oz. cooked lean ham, I oz. butter, 2 eggs, i j gills cream, ij gills bechamel or veloute sauce, salt, white pepper, krona or cayenne pepper to season, 2J gills aspic jelly, and aspic cream. Remove the fillets and other nice portions of capon, free from skin and bone. With the bones and skin make a rich stock. Pound the capon meat in a mortar until quite smooth and add gradually the yolks of 3 eggs and the white sauce and the cream. Add the butter, mix thoroughly, season to taste and rub through a fine sieve. Whisk the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth and carefully stir into the farce. Put this into a well-buttered plain mould and steam slowly for about 40 minutes, then set the mould to cool. Mask a large timbale or mousse mould with a layer of aspic, decorate the bottom and sides neatly with thin slices of foie gras, ham and truffle, and let set. Next coat the decorated portion with a thin layer of aspic cream made with veloute and aspic. Pound in a mortar the left-over pieces of foie gras and ham till quite smooth ; cut the top portion of the steamed timbale into slices and pound with the foie gras and ham, season again if needed and pass through a fine sieve. Incorporate a gill of aspic cream and a gill of very stiff aspic (liquid but not hot). Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then mask with it the prepared mould, drop in the steamed timbale, and keep it in a well charged ice cabinet for about an hour. Unmould carefully into a dish. Garnish to taste and serve.120 Recherche Knirees. Mousse de Dindon d I’Ecarlate (Cold). (Mousse of Young Turkey.) I lb. cold braised or boiled young turkey, free from skin, bones and sinews, J lb. cooked ox-tongue, \\ gills bechamel sauce, i gill cream, salt and pepper, aromatics, aspic jelly, hard-boiled white of egg, and truffle for decoration. Line a plain Charlotte mould with a thin layer of aspic, when set decorate the sides and bottom with triangular- shaped slices of hard-boiled white of egg and rounds of truffle. Keep the mould on the ice till required for filling. Cut up the turkey meat and tongue rather finely, and pound both in a mortar till quite smooth, then in- corporate the white sauce and about i gill of liquid aspic, fortified with J oz. of leaf gelatine. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatics, and rub all through a sieve. Now incorporate the whipped cream, and a little more aspic if needed. Fill the prepared mould with this and keep on the ice for about 2 hours. To serve, unmould the shape on to a dish and garnish the sides with dropped aspic. Chapon a la Dauphine (Cold). (Chaudfroid of Capon, Dauphine style.) For Mousse.—i large capon, cooked lean ham, ij gills of aspic, truffle and seasoning, J gill of bechamel sauce, i gill cream, white chaudfroid sauce for masking. For Decoration.—J pint firm chicken aspic, slices of ham and chillies or pimientos, i large truffle. Truss the capon as for boiling, rub the surface with cut lemon, and cook till tender in seasoned whole stock. Drain and let cool. Pound the ham finely, add to it the sauce, and rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste, and incorporate the cream and aspic, also some chopped truffle, if liked. Stir this over the ice till it begins to set. Carefully remove the breast or fillet portion of the boiledXXII. FILETS DE SOLE SAINT-GEORGFS. {p. 6o.) FII.ETS DE BCEUF VIENNOISE. {p- 9T-)( V, V X V /■ V \ V ' \ Nv.; / \;EnirUs of Voultry. I2I capon, and cut away the breast bone; then fill the body of the bird with the prepared mousse, covering the top neatly with the slices of fillets so as to give the bird its original shape. Mask over with chaudfroid sauce. Dish up, and decorate with fancifully cut slices of ham and truffle, and pimiento. The bird must be aished on a neatly shaped plain rice socle, the sides of which are to be built up with rock shapes of chicken aspic. The latter is whisked whilst liquid on the ice to a froth, and shaped by means of a table-spoon (like small meringues or quenelles). Pour a little half- set clear jelly round the base of the dish, and serve when the latter has become firm. Poussins Po61es a la Madrid. 3 or 4 chic-chickens (poussins),2oz. butter, 12 small veal quenelles, 4 oz. lean bacon (cut in cubes), i small onion, 2 strips lemon rind, \ gill demi-glace, 12 very small button onions (peeled), seasoning, 8 mushroom heads, i pimiento I carrot (scraped), J bay-leaf, i gill tomato sauce, \ glass Marsala. Truss the chic-chickens for braising, cut the carrot in quarters, peel the onion and cut it in half, stick a clove in one half. Melt the butter in a fire-proof earthenware pot. Fry the button onions in this, and take them out ; put in the carrot, cut onion, bay-leaf, and lemon rind, and place in the chickens ; let them take colour over a brisk fire, and set it in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take up, pour off the fat, onion, etc., and place the chicken in again with the fried button onions, the bacon cut in cubes and fried, the mushroom heads, and the veal quenelles previously poached in stock and drain also the pimiento cut into slices. Season with salt, pepper and aromatics, and moisten with the sauces mentioned, also the wine. Cover the pan, and let its contents cook in the oven from122 Recherche Entrees. 20 to 30 minutes. To serve, transfer the whole into an oblong fireproof terrine, which should be placed in the oven for at least 10 minutes before sending to table. If liked the little birds may be cut in halves at the time of dishing up, half a bird being considered enough for each person. Poulet Saute a la President. (Stewed Chicken, President Style.) I large chicken or Surrey fowl, 2 oz,. clarified butter, i shallot, I glass sherry, i gill espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, about J lb. short crust paste, 4 oz. cooked game or beef, I oz. ham, i oz. butter, 2 table-spoonfuls bechamel sauce, 3 yolks of egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, salt and pepper, I large trufile, a croute of fried bread. Draw, wipe and singe the chicken, cut it into neat joints (it should make 8 nice pieces). Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the pieces, season with salt and pepper, and fry a golden colour over a brisk fire. Add the shallot finely chopped at the last, so as to blend a little ; now add the sherry, cover, and reduce a little ; then put in the tomato and espagnole sauce, and let sim- mer gently for from 30 to 40 minutes. Roll out the paste. Butter six or more little dariole moulds, and line them with the paste, fill them up with raw rice or dried peas, and bake in a moderately heated oven for 15 minutes, or until they are of a nice golden colour. Turn out the rice and fill the crusts with the following mixture :— Cut the ham and game or beef into small pieces, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Add the bechamel sauce, butter, and hard-boiled yolk of egg. Pound well, work in the raw yolks, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a wire sieve. Cut the truffle into round slices, and chop the trimmings finely, and mix with the above. Fill the paste crusts with the farce carefully, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up the chicken on a croute of fried bread, fixedEntrees of Foiiltry. 123 on a hot dish by means of a little batter or white of egg. Skim off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the chicken. Cut some slices of hard-boiled white of egg into triangular or heart shapes, stamp out the centre so as to receive the slices of truffle. Place these carefully on the baked and filled paste crusts, and range them round the chicken. Serve hot. Poulet Saut6 a la Marengo. Cut up 2 tender chickens into neat joints ; put a gill of sweet oil in a large saute-pan ; when hot, put in the pieces of chicken and allow them to fry over a quick fire, adding a small bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a clove, a small shallot. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. When the pieces are slightly brown on both sides, remove the bay-leaf, thyme, clove, and shallot, pour off part of the oil, add a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped shallot, and J a clove of bruised garlic ; allow to fry a few minutes longer, then moisten with half a gill of good stock, J pint of espagnole and J pint of tomato sauce, I glass of sherry and half a glass of brandy ; also 10 large sliced preserved mushrooms and two sliced truffles. Let all simmer for twenty minutes (covered). Fry in very hot sweet oil as many fresh eggs as may be required allowing one to each person, drain them on a cloth, dish up the chicken in pyramidal form on a hot dish, sauce well, place the eggs round the chicken, gar- nish with fried glazed bread croutons, or fleurons, and serve. Poulet Saut§ a la Philippe. I tender fowl or large chicken, 4 oz,. bacon cut in strips, 2 oz. butter, a small glass brandy, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, i teaspoonful finely chopped herbs, 4 oz. rice blanched and cooked in rich stock, i teaLSpoonful curry powder, J teaspoonful saffron, J pint preserved morilles124 Recherche Entrks. or cepes, J pint demi-glace sauce, J oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i large croute of fried bread the shape of a timbale (made hollow), seasoning. Clean and wipe the chicken or fowl, cut it up into con- venient joints, season them with pepper and salt, and fry in a saute-pan with the bacon and butter till of a nice colour. Take up the pieces of fowl, pour off the butter into a cup (for further use), leave the bacon in the pan, put the brandy and anchovy essence into the saut6-pan, add also the chopped herbs and the sauce. Boil up, skim, season and replace the pieces of chicken. Cook gently for about 20 minutes. Flavour the rice with curry and saffron first blended in a little butter, mix thoroughly and add half an ounce of parmesan cheese. Season to taste and keep very hot. Dress the chicken and rice in layers into the prepared bread timbale croute. See that the breast pieces of the fowl are placed on top. Garnish the top of the timbale and the sides with sauted morilles or cepes seasoned and flavoured with cheese. Pour a little of the sauce over the timbale and serve the rest in a sauce-boat along with the dish. Poulet en Casserole. (Braised Chicken in Casserole.) Line the bottom of an earthenware fire-proof casserole with thinly cut slices of streaky bacon, slices of carrot and I sliced onion, put in an ounce of butter, and let it melt over the fire, place in a ready-trussed Surrey fowl, breast downwards, let it take colour (a nice golden brown), then turn it and brown the other side. Now pour off the fat in the casserole, add a small bouquet of herbs (parsley, thyme and bayleaf), also 12 small button onions, peeled and fried in butter. Moisten with J pint of rich stock or gravy and a gill of brown sauce. Cover the pan and place it in a fairly hot oven for about i hour. By that time the fowl should be quite cooked. Baste itXXIIl. ESCALOPES OU FILETS DE VEAU A LA PARISIENNE, CIIAPON A LA LECH AM FL [P- I37-)125 Entrees of Poultry. occasionally during the process of cooking. Take up the fowl, strain the sauce and skim it, then put it back into the casserole together with the bacon and onions, put in the fowl after the string and skewers have been removed. See that the sauce is nicely seasoned. Keep the contents of the casserole hot till required for table ; then place it on a folded napkin on a large round dish, and serve. Filets de Poulet aux Huitres. (Chicken Fillets with Oysters.) Remove the breast from a fine chicken or Surrey fowl, take off the skin and flatten the meat with a cutlet bat. Cut each fillet in two, trim a little, and place a raw bearded oyster in the centre of each slice of fillet. Season lightly with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, then roll each little hllet in a piece of oiled white paper. Place them in a buttered saute-pan with a little stock and a glass of white wine. Cook them thus in the oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Take up, remove the paper, dish up and pour over a nicely made veloute sauce flavoured with the reduced chicken liquor. Poulet Frit d la Villeroi. (Fried Chicken, Villeroi style.) I fowl, I pint stock, 2 07. butter, J oz. flour, i glass white wine, i whole egg, bread-crumbs, frying fat, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, 2 cloves, and savoury herbs, 3 yolks of eggs, lemon juice, seasoning, parsley. Truss the fowl as for braising ; place it on a bed of vegetable and bacon (mirepoix), with an ounce of butter in a braising-pan (braisoire), and let the surface of the fowl get nicely browned over a bright fire. Moisten with stock, season with salt and pepper, cover, and place in the oven for about J an hour, baste occasionally. TakeRecherche Entrees. 126 up the fowl, untruss, cut it into neat joints. Put the carcase into the pan in which the fowl was cooked, skim off the fat, add the wine and boil up ; strain and reduce a little. Cook the flour in the remainder of butter (i oz.), but do not allow it to get brown, stir in the stock, add the juice of half a lemon, and reduce to the desired consis- tency (the sauce must boil for at least 20 minutes). Stir in the egg yolks and let bind. Dip the pieces of fowl in this sauce after it has cooled, cover each piece completely, and put on a wire tray. When set, dip each piece care- beaten fully in egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain. Dish up, and garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon. Ailerons de Volaille a la Creole. (Chicken Breasts, Creole style.) 2 Surrey fowls or large chicken, 2 oz. butter, i pint rich stock, 3 small truffles, J pint cooked vegetable mace- doine, 6 oz. rice, 6 small artichoke bottoms, i gill sauce aigre-douce (see Sauces), salt and pepper, aromatic seasoning. Carefully remove the wing and breast portions of the fowls. Trim these neatly and cut into nice portions, and remove the skin. Fry the portions in butter in a saute- pan for a few minutes over a brisk fire, when nicely coloured, put the pan in the oven, covered with a piece of buttered paper, and allow to braize for about 15 minutes. Season with aromatics and salt, pour off the fat, add the sauce, boil up and keep hot. Blanch and cook the rice (this must be done before- hand), cook it in stock, and add the butter left over from cooking the chickens ; season to taste, and let reduce in the oven till almost dry. Mix with the truffles, previously chopped finely. Fill a buttered border mould with the cooked rice, shake it well so as to get the rice in firmly,127 Enirks of PoiiUry. and iinmould on a hot dish. Have ready heated the artichoke bottoms and fill them with macedoine of vegetables, healed, seasoned and tossed in butter). Group them neatly round the top of the border of rice. Dress the pieces of chicken in the centre of the dish, pour over a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a sauce boat to be handed round separately. Place the dish in a hot oven for a few minutes to get well heated before being sent to table. Chartreuse de Volaille a la Balmoral (Cold). (Chartreuse of Chicken, Balmoral style.) J lb. cold boiled chicken (freed from skin and bone), J cooked sweetbread, 8 preserved mushrooms, i pint aspic jelly, i gill espagnole sauce, J oz. meat glaze, i gill cream, i hard-boiled egg, 8 small chicken quenelles, 3 large truffles, 4 cooked cock’s combs, seasoning, i glass sherry, i gill veloute or bechamel sauce. Line the inside of a plain charlotte mould with aspic. Ornament the bottom and side with fancifully cut slices of truffles and hard-boiled white of egg ; fix the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and i gill of aspic in a stew-pan, reduce to one-third, add the cream, reheat, and pass through a fine tammy. Allow this to cool a little,then mask with it the inside of the mould. Cut the chicken and sweetbread into small fillets, also shred the mushrooms, and remainder of truffles into fine strips ; mix with a sauce composed of espagnole sauce, sherry, a gill of aspic, and liquified meat glaze. Stand on the ice till firm. To serve, immerse the mould in tepid water, and turn out on a dish with folded napkin. Put some chopped set aspic round the base of the dish, garnish with sprigs of endive or Batavia, and serve. Reduce and mix with the meat, etc., when cooling. Season to taste and fill up the prepared mould.128 Recherche Entrees. Supr^mes de Volaille a la Strasbourgeoise. (Chicken Fillets, Strasbourg style.) 2 chickens, i tin or terrine foie gras (about 6 oz.), 4 oz. fat pork, aromatic spice, pepper and salt, pig's caul, 3 to 4 fresh mushrooms, 4 oz. butter, i truffle, bread-crumbs, I egg, demi-glace sauce, morels. Remove the fillet and wing portions of chicken, flatten them, and cut out about ten nice rounds the size of a four shilling piece. Pound in a mortar about 6 oz. of chicken meat free from skin and gristle, cut up the pork and foie- gras, pound each separately, then mix well. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Chop finely the fresh mushrooms (these being previously peeled and trimmed) ; fry them slightly in some butter over a brisk fire. Cut the caul into pieces large enough to envelop a cutlet, put each piece of caul over a cutlet-shaped mould (you will need 8 or 10 of these). Put a table-spoonful of the prepared farce in the centre of each piece of caul, spread out the farce, now put a chicken fillet on top of this, then a few chopped and broiled mushrooms, a thin slice of truffle, and finish up with a further layer of farce. Fold in the pig’s caul, press the whole lightly into the moulds, so as to obtain correct cutlet shapes. Beat up an egg, add to it an ounce of liquid butter, also a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, mix thoroughly, coat the cutlets with this, then dip in fresh bread-crumbs. En- deavour to keep the cutlets in neat shapes whilst crumb- ing. Fry them in hot butter to a nice colour, dish up on a narrow border of mashed potatoes, fill up the centre with broiled morilles or fresh mushrooms, and serve with demi- glace sauce. Supr6mes de Volaille d la Mirette. (Chicken Fillets, Mirette style.) Remove the breasts from two fine chickens, skin the fillets and lard them ; place them in a saute-pan withXXIV TIMBALE DE VOI.AILLE A LA PASQUAL. {p. 13 3.) B^;CASSINES BUAISEES AUX CHOUX. {p. 169.)Entrees of FouUry. 129 butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for 15 minutes in a moderate oven. Remove the fillets and put into the saute-pan half a gill of well-reduced veloute sauce, I table-spoonful of chicken essence and a table- spoonful of concentrated tomato puree. Boil up, skim, reduce, add a little lemon juice and season to taste with salt and pepper. Pass this through a tammy and pour over the fillets. Keep them hot. Have ready a crouton of fried bread fixed on to an oval dish. Prepare a julienne of cooked artichoke bottoms, truffles, and champignons, heat these up in a little seasoned stock. Dress the fillets on the dish, sprinkle over the top the prepared julienne and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. Serve hot. Darioles de Volaille a la Diplomate (Cold). (Chicken Darioles, Diplomate style.) J Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, foie gras, i table-spoonful of cream, i yolk of egg, salt and aromatic spice, i oz. of ham, truffles, J pint chaud-froid sauce, J pint aspic jelly, aspic border with vegetable macedoine. Remove the fillets of a large fowl, taking off the skin and sinews ; broil them in a saute-pan with a little fresh butter, let them get cold, then cut up finely, pound the rest of the meat in a mortar with about one-third its quantity of foie gras, add a little cream, and the yolk of one egg. Season with aromatic spice, and pound till fine enough to pass through a fine sieve. Butter 8 egg- shaped dariole moulds, line them with this farce, place a spoonful of chicken and ham salpicon, mixed with minced truffles, in the centre ; fill up and cover with the re- mainder of the farce, and place them in a saute-pan, two- thirds filled with boiling water. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven about 20 minutes. When done, unmould the shapes and place them on the ice to cool. Mask them over with a white chaud-froid sauce and I130 Recherche Enirks. decorate with truffles, then coat over with a thin layer of aspic. Dress them neatly on an aspic macedoine border on a round dish ; put some small mixed salad in the centre of the dish, and serve. Poulet d6coup6 en Chaud-froid. (Chaud-froid of Chicken.) Boil a tender chicken in seasoned white stock ; when done, take up, drain and let cool. Cut it into neat joints and remove the skin. Coat each with white chaud-froid sauce and place on a wire tray. Repeat this so as to completely mask each piece with sauce. Decorate with thinly cut slices of truffle, pimientos, cucumber rind, and lastly mask with a thin layer of aspic. Dish up neatly on a bed of small salad, and serve. Escalopes de Poulet aux Epinards. (Chicken Escallopes with Spinach.) Bone a young pullet or Surrey fowl, split open the back and lay out flat, skin downwards, season with pepper and salt, and a little aromatic spice ; spread over with a fairly thick layer of veal and ham forcemeat, roll up into the shape of a galantine. Sew up the end portion of the skin and place in a braising-pan upon a mirepoix bed. Braise till tender in the oven or over the fire, basting it frequently. Untruss and cut up into rather thick slices. Dish up in a circle round spinach puree, garnish with spinach by forcing out the spinach through a savoy-bag. Pour a little hot brown or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Medallions de Volaille d la Conde. (Medallions of Chicken Breasts, Conde style.) 2 chickens, larding bacon, 4 truffles, 6 small young carrots, 12 mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, J pint supreme sauce, I white and 3 yolks of egg, i glass Mad ere,Entrks of Voultry. 131 croutes of bread, a mirepoix, pepper and salt, \ gill of cream. Remove the fillets from the chickens, cut them in twos, flatten and shape them into rounds. Lard them with larding bacon, put in a saute-pan with i oz,. of butter, the mirepoix, i gill of chicken stock, and the wine. Season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven for 20 minutes ; baste occasionally. Have ready a forcemeat made from the remaining chicken meat, well pounded, passed through a sieve, and mixed with the white of egg, a little whipped cream, and seasoning. Allow the fillets to cool, trim them a little, cover the surface with a layer of the forcemeat, orna- ment each with a rosette of truffle, range them in a saut6-pan, and poach in a slow oven for 20 minutes. The fillets should be well moistened with liquor, and covered with a piece of buttered paper. Have ready a julienne mixture of mushrooms, truffles and carrots, the latter being boiled in chicken stock, after being cut into julienne strips. Put all into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter, saute well over the fire, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a little supreme sauce. Dress the julienne in the centre of a dish in the form of a pyramid, range the medaillons round them. Sauce over with a well reduced supreme sauce in which the essence of the fillets has been incorporated. Garnish the dish round with bread croutons, cut in heart shapes, fried in butter and glazed. Mirepoix. A mirepoix consists of sliced carrot, onion, turnip, ham or bacon, savoury herbs ; this usually forms the founda- tion of brown soups and sauces, braised meat, etc. Timbale de Volaille a la Toulouse (Cold). (Chicken Timbale, Toulouse style.) J lb. boiled boned fowl, \ pint whipped cream, i J gills aspic, I gherkin, aspic cream (see Sauces), 2 oz. cooked132 Recherche 'Entrees. lean ham, i anchovy, i truffle, red chilli, pepper, salt and cayenne. Free the chicken from skin and gristle and pound in a mortar tid smooth. Wipe and bone the anchovy, pound with the above, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Put the puree into a basin, mix in the whipped cream, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, paprika, or Krona pepper. Decorate a timbale mould, previously masked with aspic, tastefully with stars of truffle and fancifully cut slices of chilli or pimientos and gherkin. Coat the inside of the mould completely with a layer of aspic cream (using two table-spoonfuls of cream to one of aspic). Whisk the aspic jelly to a froth and mix with the puree, adding any trimmings of truffle finely chopped. Finish with a layer of aspic cream, and put on the ice to set. Unmould the timbale on to a cold dish and garnish neatly with seasoned small salad. Timhales de Volaille a la Rothschild (Cold). (Chicken Timbales, Rothschild style.) I small fowl, 4 a sweetbread braised, 3 truffles, Madere sauce, I gill cream, aspic jelly, supreme sauce (see Sauces), seasoning. Mask the inside of 8 small timbale moulds, with a thin layer of aspic jelly; when set, decorate the bottom and sides neatly with thinly cut slices of truffle. Place the moulds on the ice to get quite set, then mask over the decoration with a layer of well reduced supreme sauce, into which 2-3 leaves of dissolved gelatine have been incorporated. Remove the fillets and wing portion from the fowl, and pound till smooth in a mortar ; adding the cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Rub this through a fine sieve, and place on the ice. Butter 8 timbale moulds, a size smaller than thoseXXV. CHARTREUSE DE FILETS DE VEAU A LA CRECY. {p. 70.)‘Entrees of 'Poultry. 133 before used, with the farce just prepared ; partially fil] the moulds, leaving the centre part hollow. Prepare a ragout with the sweetbread, cut in dice, mixed with the trimmings of truffles chopped up coarsely, and moisten with a little sauce. Put about a dessert- spoonful of this into each mould, and fill up with the re- mainder of the farce. Poach first on the stove, and then in the oven, for 20 minutes in all. When half cold, turn out the little timbales on to a cloth, and put on the ice to get cold quickly. Place these carefully into the pre- pared masked and decorated moulds, and fill the sides with half-set aspic. Allow the moulds to set firm, then turn out, and dish up smartly. Timbale de Volaille a la Pasqual (Cold). (Chicken Timbale, Pasqual style.) I tender fowl, 4 eggs (4 yolks and 2 whites), 2 oz. panade, J a pint double cream, seasoning, carmine for colouring, 3 oz. butter, ! J gills aspic jelly, slices of truffles, I pint white chaud-froid sauce, celery, tongue, i glass Madeira, foie gras, mushrooms, J gill rich tomato sauce, semolina or rice socle, i cock’s comb, and 2 large truffles. Bone the fowl, free the meat from skin and sinews and make a good rich stock from the bones and skin. Pound the meat in a mortar, adding, when fine enough, the yolks of eggs, panade, and butter ; add seasoning to taste, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate the cream and beaten whites of eggs, either before or after the puree is produced ; this forms the farce. Divide it equally, and colour one part with tomato puree to give it a bright red colour. Spread the prepared farce into buttered flat moulds, and poach them from 20-25 min- utes. When done and cooled, cut it into slices, and then into neat triangular shapes (sufflcient to decorate the mould). Mask a large timbale mould with a thin layer of aspic, decorate it with truffle, cut into small rounds, and134 Recherche Entrees. alternate slices of red and white farce. Next, coat the inside of the mould with a chaud-froid sauce, into which a little cream and saffron essence has been introduced. Prepare a ragout of foie gras, truffles, champignons, celery, and the remainder of cooked farce, all cut into slices, and moisten with a glass of Madeira, aspic and tomato sauce, also additional seasoning if required. Fill the mould with this and place it on the ice to set. Have ready a neat border of cooked cold semolina or rice to form the base or socle ; place this in a cold dish, decorate the base with creamed butter, suitably coloured. Unmould the timbale, place it carefully in the centre of the dish. Insert a silver skewer, replete with a cock’s comb and the whole truffle in the centre of the timbale, and serve. Palmettes de Volaille, Valeska (Cold). I large plump Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, J gill stock, \ gill cream, J gill bechamel sauce, seasoning, 2 whites of eggs, ij gills white chaud-froid sauce, meat glaze, 8 oblong flat or kite-shaped souffle cases. Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, etc., flatten them, season, and fry lightly in butter in a saute-pan. Add the stock, cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven for 15 minutes. Take up, drain and press the fillets. With the remainder of the fowl, prepare a light souffle farce, using the cream, bechamel sauce, whites of eggs (previously whisked), and seasoning. Put this in a buttered plain mould (flat shape), and cook in a bain- marie in the oven. When done, unmould and let cool. Cut the chicken fillets into the shape of the paper caises, in a similar manner cut the chicken souffle, and sandwich them together with a little dissolved meat glaze. Mask each carefully with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate135 Eritrees of FouUry. afterwards with thinly cut fanciful slices of truffle and tarragon leaves. Place a little small cress or other salad, previously seasoned, in each of the cases ; dress the palmettes upon this, dish up, and serve. The appearance of the palmettes is greatly improved by coating them when finished with a thin layer of half- set aspic. Bombe de Volaille a la Trianon (Cold). (Chicken Fillets, Trianon style.) The breast and wings of one large boiled fowl, 2 pickled sheep’s tongues boiled, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 small cab- bage lettuces, I pint aspic, J pint lemon mayonnaise (see Sauces), tarragon and chervil, endive or Batavia, seasoning, sauce Trianon (see Sauces). Mask a bombe mould with aspic and decorate the sides with half moon or triangular shaped slices of chicken and tongue, and line with aspic cream. Mask also a border mould with aspic and decorate the sides with slices of hard-boiled eggs, chervil and endive or Batavia shreds. Cut the remainder of chicken free from skin and bones and the tongues into small thin slices. Mix these care- fully with lettuce and other salad cut up small and egg slices. Season with salt and pepper and dress with mayonnaise, mixed with a little aspic to help set. Fill up the prepared bombe mould with this and put it on the ice. Fill the border with the remainder of chicken, etc., and salad and place on the ice to set. Unmould the border on a flat entree dish, put round crouton in centre, and place the bombe shape upon this. Garnish with sections of lettuce hearts, endive, etc., and serve with sauce Trianon (see Sauces). Cotelettes de Volaille d la Melba (Cold). (Chicken Cutlets, Melba style.) I large Surrey fowl, or young capon, 2 oz. butter, i terrine foie gras, seasoning, red and white chaud-froidRecherche Knirees. 136 sauces (see Sauces), aspic, Melba salad for centre of dish, suitable socle for serving the cutlets on. Remove the wing and breast portions of the fowl, flatten the pieces with a wetted cutlet bat. Divide them, flatten out again, and place each in a wetted cutlet mould, then place them on the ice. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, and unmould the little cutlet shapes, and season with salt. Cover with buttered paper, and cook for 15 or 20 minutes in a moder- ate oven. Let them get cold. Braize the trimming and leg portions of the fowl in the usual way. When cooked, free from skin and bone, and pound the meat in a mortar till quite smooth, adding at the same time a similar quantity of foie gras and about i oz. of fresh butter. Season well with aromatics, and rub through a fine sieve. Mask the top of each cutlet thickly with this farce, so as to give them a nice bomb-shaped appearance. Place them on the ice to get firm. Lastly coat one half of the cutlets with white chaud-froid sauce, and the other half with red chaud-froid sauce. When set, mask with aspic. To Dish up.—Have ready a suitably carved rice socle, surmounted with cup or other receptacle for the salad. Dress the cutlets round the base of the socle, with the salad on top, on the centre of which place a small peeled and hollowed out tomato, filled with salad and aspic. Round the base of the dish range neatly very small peeled tomatoes, likewise filled with chopped aspic, also small ball shapes made of the salad mixture and aspic. Lastly ornament the dish with fancifully cut slices, triangles, or other shapes of set aspic. (Adopted from M. C. J. Corblet’s MSS.) Salade Melba. This consists of plainly boiled rice cooked in salted water with the addition of a little lemon juice. When theKnirees of Foultry. 137 rice is drained and cold enough, season it with pepper, and mix with the necessary proportion of oil and vinegar, Add to it some peeled ripe tomatoes, freed from pulp, and cut into very small julienne strips. Lastly mix with the salad a good dose of paprika, and if liked a little pimiento cut in very tiny strips. Filets de Poulet a la Helder. (Chicken Fillets, Helder style.) 2 plump spring chickens, | pint preserved cepes, or morilles, 12 small potatoes, J gill veloute sauce, i table- spoonful meat glaze or Lemco, brandy, i oz. butter, i dessert-spoonful flour, chicken stock, seasoning, bread croutons. Remove carefully the fillets of the 2 chickens,skin them and place them on a buttered saute-pan, pour over a table-spoonful of old brandy, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Moisten with a little chicken stock, cover with a buttered paper and poach in the oven for 15 minutes. Take up the fillets and keep hot, pour off the liquor in the saute-pan, and melt in it the re- mainder of the butter. To this add the flour, cook a little, and add J gill chicken stock, the liquor and the meat glaze or Lemco. Cook for 10 minutes and strain. Return to the saute-pan and place in the chicken fillets, cook them gently for another 15 minutes. Have ready some heart shapes of fried bread croutons, dress the fillets on these in the form of a border on a round entree dish. Heap up the cepes or morilles in the veloute sauce, and put this ragout in the centre. Sauce over the whole carefully and send to table hot. Chapon k la Bechamel (Cold). (Cold Capon, Bechamel style.) Cook a large capon trussed for boiling in seasoned white stock. When done, drain it well and let cool.138 Recherche Knirtes. Mask it with white chaud-froid sauce composed of bechamel cream and aspic. Cook also 6 oz. of rice in sufficient water to make a fairly firm mixture. Pound it in a mortar, and press into an oval-shaped flat mould ; when cold turn out and carve the side with a sharp knife. Place this on an oval dish and put the prepared capon upon it. Insert in breast part a skewer or hatelet with cock’s comb, truffle, and a few sauce-coated mushroom heads. Repeat the cooking operation and lastly mask with a thin layer of aspic. Put some triangular-shaped ' pieces of set aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. Mousselines de Chapon en Caisses (Cold). (Small Capon Mousselines in Cases.) Prepare a cream-like mixture the same as directed for “ Darioles de Creme de Volaille ” on page 140, using the remains of boiled capon in place of chicken. Line 8 flat bouche moulds with a thin layer of aspic and decorate each mould with a star of truffle placed in the centre, with small clots of truffle around it. Next coat the moulds with a layer of aspic cream, and fill, when set, with the capon mixture. Place the moulds on the ice to set. Put a little seasoned mixed salad, cut very small, into china or paper souffle cases, unmould the mousselines and place each on the salad into the cases. Garnish the edges with sprigs of endive. Dish up, and serve cold. Caneton a la Rouennaise. (Rouen Duckling.) Truss a Rouen duckling for roasting, prepare a farce with 4 oz. of bacon, chopped and fried lightly with 6 duck livers, i small onion blanched and chopped. Pound all when cold, rub through a sieve, and add i teaspoonful of chopped parsley and mix well together. Stuff the duckling with this preparation, retruss it and roast in a fireproof earthenware roasting pan.139 'Entrees of Toultry. ^ For the sauce or gravy use i table-spoonful of liver pur^e, I gill of grav}^ or thin demi-glace sauce, the juice of half an orange, and i small glass of port wine. Boil up, season with salt and cayenne, then strain, reheat, and serve separately with the duckling, which must be dished on a croute of fried bread and garnished with finely fried straw potatoes. Note.—It is most essential that the duckling should be roasted “ saignant ” or underdone. Dinde a la Florentine. (Turkey, Florentine style.) Truss a small young turkey the same as for boiling, cover the_breast with thin slices of bacon or fat ham, upon this place 2-3 thin slices of lemon and a small bay- leaf. Wrap it up carefully in a sheet of buttered paper and place the bird breast upwards in a stew-pan large and deep enough to hold it well, and previously lined with slices of bacon, carrot, onion, celery and a little savpury herbs. Add an ounce of butter, a pint of well seasoned stock and a glass of Chablis or Italian white wine. Bring it to the boil over the fire, then cover the pan and place it in a hot oven and cook the bird till tender, allowing about 20 minutes to each pound. Baste the bird fre- quently. When done, take up the turkey, remove the paper and strain the liquor into another pan, add J pint of tomato sauce, boil up and skim, then put the turkey into the sauce and reheat it. To serve as an entree cut the bird into the required number of portions, dish up neatly and pour over the hot sauce. Pigeons k la Valence. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 chicken livers, 2 truffles, 8 pre- served mushrooms, a teaspoonful chopped parsley, a small sliced carrot, a small sliced onion, a small bouquet of herbs, i dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, i egg, i table-140 RechercM Entrees. spoonful bread-crumbs, 2 oz. larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, I small glass of sherry or Marsala, J pint stock, J pint demi-glace sauce, salt and pepper. Make a forcemeat of the bread-crumbs, par-boil the livers, half of the mushrooms, one truffle, salt and pepper. Fill the pigeons with the forcemeat, truss them and lard the breast portion with strips of larding bacon. Put the onion, carrot and herbs into a saute-pan with a little stock, place the birds on top ; cook them in the oven for about 30 minutes. Toss the remaining mushrooms and truffle minced in the butter. Add the rest of the stock and the sauce, simmer for 15 minutes, dish up the birds and keep hot. Remove the fat from the sauce, boil up ; add the lemon juice and wine, re- duce a little, and strain. Cut the pigeons into neat portions and dish up, pour over the prepared sauce and serve. Darioles de Cr^me de Volaille (Cold). (Small Chicken Creams.) J boiled fowl, 2 table-spoonfuls double cream, i small terrine of foie gras pate, i hard-boiled yolk of egg, 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, J gill bechamel sauce, ^ pint aspic jelly, seasoning. Remove the skin and bones from the fowl, cut up the meat, and pound it in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the cream, the egg yolk, and the foie gras (from which the lard and truffle pieces have been removed) ; work thoroughly in a mortar and rub through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Heat up the sauce, add double the quantity of aspic and mix with the prepared puree. Season to taste with a pinch or two of aromatic spice. Mask 8 small dariole moulds with aspic, decorate with truffles and pimiento or chillies and line thickly with it. Cut the tongue into fine shreds, add the truffles cut likewise and mix ; put this in layers in the centre ofXXVI. PETITS CHOUX A LA LORRAINE, [p. 43.) SUPREMES DE SARCELLE A L’ORANGE. 157.)Enirks of Voultry, 14^ the moulds. Pour a little of the remaining mixture between each layer, when filled put the moulds on the ice or in a very cold place. Turn out the darioles, dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic. Souffle de Volaille a la Hollandaise. (Souffl6 of Chicken, Dutch style.) J lb. raw chicken, J lb. raw lean veal, 2 eggs, i gill cream, pepper and salt, i oz. finely chopped ham, i gill bechamel sauce. Free the meat from skin and sinews, cut it into small pieces and pound in a mortar till smooth. Add one whole egg and the yolk of the second egg, mix thoroughly, adding at the same time half the cream and enough salt and pepper to taste. Rub all through a fine sieve. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it gently into the above mixture, adding also the remainder of the cream, which may be whipped, if liked. Have ready a well buttered plain charlotte mould ; put the preparation into the mould. Fix round it a band of buttered paper, and steam for about 45 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, sauce over carefully with hot white sauce (bechamel or supreme). Decorate tastefully with chopped ham and serve. The whole weight of the meat required for this dish can be made up with chicken only, if liked. Canard aux Olives. (Braised Duck with Olives.) I large tender duck, 6 oz. streaky bacon, J oz. butter, J gill white wine, J pint brown sauce, i gill gravy, about 2 doz. French olives, i bouquet of herbs, pepper and salt, a few half-moon shapes of bread croutons, meat glaze. Line the bottom of a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, put in the duck previously trussed, season with pepper and salt, spread the butter on top, add the bou- quet of herbs, and bake in a hot oven, to acquire a nice142 Recherche ’Entrees. colour (the duck must only be partly cooked). Take up, cut into neat joints and put them in a clean stew-pan. Chop the carcase into small pieces and return to the pan in which the duck was baked ; fry over the fire a few minutes, pour off the fat, add the sauce and gravy and cook for ten minutes. Strain over the pieces of duck, and allow the whole to simmer gently for about 20 minutes. Stone the olives, put them in a stew-pan with the wine, boil up and add to the above. Simmer a little longer, skim well, dish up, and garnish with a few bread croutons brushed over with meat glaze. Quenelles de Canard a la Bulgarienne. (Quenelles of Duck, Bulgarian style.) Prepare a light farce (mousse character), composed of the fillets of raw duck and 6 oz. of lean veal or beef, adding to it the white of an egg, and about a gill of cream. Season with salt and pepper, and sieve. Blanch a piece of beef marrow, and cut it into 8 small portions. Butter 8 bouche or kidney moulds, line each half with the prepared farce, and place a piece of marrow in each, also about i teaspoonful of Mad ere sauce, then close up the moulds. Where the special moulds are not available, use a large spoon, and make up quenelle shapes with the marrow and sauce in centre. Poach the quenelles in stock or seasoned water, then drain, and let cool on a sieve. Egg and breadcrumb them carefully, and fry to a golden brown in hot fat or nut oil. Dish them up in a nest- shaped basket of straw potatoes or nouilles. Garnish with crisp parsley and serve with sauce Bulgarienne. (See Sauces.) Note.—As an alternative, poach the quenelles made in the kidney moulds, dish them up on a border of potato puree, and glaze over with Mad ere sauce, flavoured with orange rind and juice, put a potato cup in the centre of the dish and fill with green peas.Entrees of Fouliry. 143 Darioles de Canard ^ la St Germain. (Darioles of Duck, St Germain style.) I duck (large), J pint well reduced Mad ere sauce, 2 eggs, I gill of cream, i oz. panade, h a small glass of port wine, I dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, 2 tanger- ines, i lb. of rough puff paste for cassolette or thin tartlet crusts, salt and pepper, J pint of green peas cooked, flavoured with butter and green mint, sauce Zingara (see Sauces). Roll out the paste thinly, stamp out 8 to lo rounds, with a fluted cutter, and line with them the same number of tartlet or cassolette pans, bake them to a golden b^own and keep by. Remove the meat from the duck, free it from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till quite fine, add the panade, the sauce and egg yolks. When the mixture is thoroughly blended and sufficiently pounded rub it through a fine sieve (hair or silk). Melt the red currant jelly in the port wine and stir into the farce. Season to taste and add the beaten white of an egg, the cream, and the juice of half a tangerine, also a little of its rind grated finely. Butter 8 to lo special dariole moulds, fill them with the above farce, and poach in the oven for 30 minutes. Unmould each into a cassolette paste crust, lined with a little pea puree, fill up the cavity of each dariole with a rich pea puree or whole peas nicely flavoured. Reheat them in the oven, place a section of tangerine, skinned and free from pips and glazed on top of the peas, dish up and serve with Zingara sauce. Salmi de Canard aux Navets. (Braised Duck with Turnips.) Truss two small or one large duck, the same as for roasting, put it in a roasting-tin with a little butter or lard, and roast partially. Let cool, untruss, and cut itRecherche Entrtes. 144 into neat joints. Prepare a brown sauce, strain and put in a stew-pan. Add the pieces of duck, and about three turnips, cut into quarters and previously fried in butter. Season with a little pepper and salt, add a glass of Madeira or sherry, and simmer gently for fifteen to twenty minutes. Dish up, garnish with glazed fried bread croutons, and serve. Mousselines de Caneton d la Moresco (Cold). (Mousselines of Duckling with Green Peas.) I small duckling, 2 hard-boiled yolks of egg, J gill bechamel or veloute sauce, seasoning, i dessert-spoonful meat glaze, i pint cooked green peas, 2-3 table-spoonfuls cream, 2 oz. cooked ham, ij gills aspic, cold cucumber sauce (see Sauces). ' Truss and braise the duckling in the usual manner, when done, skin it whilst warm, cut off the fillet or breast portion, and mince the ham ; pound both in a mortar till quite smooth. Incorporate the egg-yolks, the cream, and a gill of cooked green peas, season to taste, and rub the puree through a fine sieve. Work in half a gill of aspic, to which the meat glaze has been added, and the white sauce. Mask the inside of 12 peapod-shaped moulds with a thin layer of aspic, and decorate with green peas. Let these set on the ice, then fill them with the mixture above mentioned, and keep on the ice for about three-quarters of an hour. Cook enough semolina or cornflour in seasoned milk to fill a suitably shaped oval mould, which is to form the base or support for the little shapes. When this is set place it on an oval dish. Unmould the shapes, and range them neatly on top of the semolina or rice shape. Serve this dish with a boat of cold cucumber sauce.XXVll. TIMBALE DE RIS DE VEAU A LA REINE. {p. JJ.) CHARTREUSE AU CHAUDFROID DE GIBIER. {p. 167.)'Entrees of Poultry. 145 Caneton k la Boh^inienne. (Duckling, Bohemian style.) I good-sized duckling, 2 oz. bacon, i oz,. butter, i carrot, i onion, i bay-leaf, J pint espagnole or demi- glace sauce, i glass port wine, parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg to season, glace cherries, ij gills green pea puree, 2 table-spoonfuls cream, semolina croutons. Bone the duckling, spread it on the board cut side upwards, season well, roll up and tie with string. Saute it in butter, add the bacon and vegetables and finish it in the oven. Take up the duckling, pour off the fat from the pan, put in the brown sauce and the wine, boil for 10 minutes, skim and strain, place the duckling in the sauce, and keep hot. Mix the pea puree with the cream, heat up and season well. Cut the duckling into neat joints, and range them on an oblong dish. Sauce over carefully, place the prepared croutons filled with the pea puree round the dish, put half a glace cherry on the centre of the pea puree and serve. Supreme de Caneton a la Souvaroff (Cold). (Supreme of Duckling, Souvaroff style.) I duckling, i small chicken, i egg, i gill cream, i oz. butter, I small glass port wine, 2 shallots, i small terrine foie gras, J pint aspic, i glass marsala or sherry, J lb. green grapes, ^ gill tomato pulp concentrated, J gill Bearnaise sauce, demi-glace sauce, seasoning. Par-roast the duckling, then remove the breast portions carefully, cook them—i.e., braise them—with a small mirepoix, and the carcase of duck made into a fumet. When done, take up the fillets, glaze them, and keep on the ice. Pound the chicken meat free from skin and bone in a mortar ; when fine enough, add the trimmings of K146 Recherche Entrees. duck from which skin and bone have been removed, also the foie gras. Pound all together and season to taste ; add about half a gill of demi-glace and one white of egg, and rub through a fine sieve. Lastly, incorporate enough cream to make a very light farce ; test it, and fill into a buttered oval-shaped flan ring, or flat mould, cover with buttered paper and place in the oven. When cold, turn out the shape on to a cold entree dish, spread over with a layer of tomato sauce set with aspic ; a layer of Bearnaise, also set with aspic. Upon this range neatly the fillets of duck. Mask them well with aspic, reduced with the Marsala wine. Remove the skin and pips from the grapes, toss them in a little port wine and then dip them in half-set aspic- Range them in the form of a chain or otherwise on top of the fillets of duck. Place a strip of pimiento here and there to give the dish additional effect, and serve. Fumet of Duck.—To make the fumet of duck, chop up the bones and fry them in a little butter and the shallots (chopped), adding a small bouquet of herbs ; then moisten with port wine and a little stock, reduce well and strain. Pigeons Sautes aux Salsifits. (Stewed Pigeons with Salsify.) Truss two Bordeaux pigeons and put them in a saute- pan with an ounce of butter and 2 o?. of minced bacon. Season with salt and pepper, and cook them over a quick fire long enough to nicely brown the pigeons. Moisten with a gill of gravy, cover the pan and cook the birds in the oven for half an hour or till tender. Wash and scrape a bundle of salsify, cut them into three-inch lengths, and cook them till tender in plenty of salted water con- taining a table-spoonful of flour. When done, drain them and reheat in a little butter, season with salt,"Entrees of "Poultry. 147 pepper and finely chopped parsley. Untruss the pigeons and cut them up into neat joints. Dress them in the centre of an entree dish and strain over the sauce pre- viously freed from fat. Range the salsify neatly round the pigeons and serve hot. Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Maltaise. (Bordeaux Pigeons, Maltese style.) 2 Bordeaux pigeons, 6 preserved artichoke bottoms, I table-spoonful port wine, 6 fresh eggs, i oz. butter, i gill rich brown sauce, i gill rich veloute or supreme sauce, seasoning. Truss and roast the pigeons in the usual manner. Re- move bones and skin, and pound the meat in a mortar till quite smooth ; then add the butter, and season to taste with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Boil the eggs till hard, remove the shells, and cut a piece off the bottom to make them stand, cut also a piece off the top so as to scoop out the yolks ; put the latter with the pigeon puree again into the mortar, and mix the whole thorough- ly with this and the brown sauce ; then rub all through a fine sieve and add the wine (the latter m^ay be omitted if liked). Put the prepared farce in a forcing bag, and fill the whites of egg shapes by means of this. Place each on an artichoke bottom (fond d’artichaut), force a thin border of farce round the edge, and range them on a buttered saute-pan. Heat up thoroughly in the oven, previously placing a buttered paper over the top ; then dish up and sauce over with hot supreme or veloute sauce.’Recherche ‘Entrees. 148 Entrees of Game, Epigrammes de Faisan aux Petits Pois. (Epigrammes of Pheasant with Green Peas.) Remove the fillets from two pheasants, flatten them with a cutlet bat, trim them into neat heart shapes and season with pepper and salt. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets and fry a little on both sides until firm ; then press lightly until cold. Trim each epigramme neatly, immerse in nearly cold Allemande sauce, then set them to cool. Next egg and crumb them with fresh bread-crumbs or Panurette. Braise the carcases of the birds, remove the meat, and prepare a farce with 2 whites of eggs, a soaked French roll, cream and seasoning. With this same fill up a buttered border mould and cook, i.e., steam in the oven. Fry the epigrammes in clarified butter or lard, insert short pieces of macaroni to imitate cutlet bones, in the small ends. Dish up in a circle on the forcemeat border, and fill the centre with cooked green peas, previously tossed in butter and seasoned with salt, pepper and a pinch of castor sugar. Pour some demi-glace sauce round the dish, and serve hot. Terrine de Faisan a la Cossart. I plump pheasant, J lb. calf’s liver, i shallot, 4 oz. bacon, a bouquet of savoury herbs, i oz,. butter, i yolk of egg, 2-3 table-spoonfuls of rich espagnole sauce, 4 slices of fat bacon, i terrine or tin of foie gras, i glass of white wine, J pint of demi-glace sauce, 18 chestnuts, raw ham, seasoning.149 Entrees of Game. Bone the pheasant, slit the boned bird down the back and place it cut side upwards on a board. Have ready a farce made by slicing the liver, and tossing it in a saute- pan with the butter, and finely minced shallot. Add the bouquet garni, add also the bacon finely sliced, and fry with the liver, then moisten with a little stock and mush- room liquor. Pound whilst hot in a mortar, removing the herbs ; when smooth, add the sauce, and season to taste. Rub this through a fine sieve, and spread over the pheasant. Cut the foie gras, freed from fat, into fairly thick slices, and place them on top of the farce, roll up the bird neatly, and tie up with string. Put it in a fire- proof terrine or casserole, lined with fat bacon, spread a little butter over the top, cover the pan, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about 40 minutes, basting the bird occasionally. When done, pour away the fat, and take out the pheasant. Cut up the carcase, and fry it in the remaining fat, adding a little butter if necessary. Pour off the fat when fried, and moisten the carcase with a little good stock or gravy, and the wine. Boil for 20 minutes, then strain and add the sauce demi-glace. Par-roast, peel and boil the chestnuts in stock, and finish in glaze. Cut some raw ham into slices, and fry in butter. Put the cooked pheasant with the prepared sauce in a convenient sized terrine, also the chestnuts and ham. Cook for another ten minutes or so, place the terrine on a dish, covered with a folded napkin, and send to table hot. Gradins de Faisan a la Manxelle (Cold). Half a cooked pheasant, i pint aspic, 2 large truffles, 4 07.. chestnut puree, i gill of brown chaudfroid sauce, 3 table-spoonfuls melted meat glaze, seasoning, socle of rice, salad for garnish, set aspic for garnish.150 "Recherche Entrees. Coat 8-10 very small bouche or dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom of each with a bold star of truffle. Pound the meat of the pheasant till smooth, add to it the chestnut puree, season to taste, and moisten with chaudfroid sauce and a little cream, then rub through a sieve and add the meat glaze. Spread this on a clean baking sheet about J inch in thickness, and place on the ice to set. Then, by means of a paste cutter, cut out as many rounds as may be required, and fill the prepared moulds with these, allowing a thin layer of aspic between each round of puree. Turn out when set, and arrange neatly on the rice socle ; fill the centre with a well dressed salad, and garnish the base of the dish with set aspic cut into fancy shapes. Faisan Braise aux Choux. (Braised Pheasant with Cabbage.) I brace pheasants, i large or two small cabbages, \ lb* streaky bacon, i oz. butter, J lb. Strasbourg sausage, i onion stuck with 2 cloves, i bouquet garni, i quart rich stock, seasoning. Pluck, draw and singe the pheasants, cut off the leg portions and truss them as for boiling. Place them on a roasting tin, spread the butter over the breasts and roast for 10 minutes in a quick oven. Trim and wash the cabbage and blanch for 15 minutes in fast boiling salted water, then take up and drain in a colander. Line a braising pan with thin slices of bacon, upon this place a layer of cabbage, now add the onion and the bouquet garni, also the stock, season to taste with salt mignon- ette (coarse) pepper, cover the pan and cook contents slowly for a full hour or longer. About 20 minutes before serving, place in the sausage cut in rather thick slices. Remove the scum and fat from the liquor. To serve151 Kntrces of Game. range a bed of cabbage on a round dish, cut the pheasant into joints and place them round the cabbage in the form of a crown, range the bacon round the base and distribute the sausage on top. Pour some of the gravy over the dish, and send to table. Petites Cremes de Faisan (Cold). (Small Pheasant Creams.) 6 oz. cooked pheasant meat, j pint velouteor allemande sauce, J 07. gelatine, i gill cream, i gill aspic, i gherkin, I hard-boiled white of egg, \ teaspoonful chopped lemon rind, seasoning. Mask the inside of 8 or 10 little timbales or dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate each with little fanci- fully cut pieces of gherkin and white of egg, and put on the ice to set. Free the meat from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Heat up the sauce, soak the gelatine and let it dissolve in the sauce, mix the sauce (strained) with the pounded meat, add the lemon rind, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Rub through a fine hair sieve ; when cooled a little, whip the cream and add to the mixture. Fill up the moulds with this, place them on the ice to set. Turn out and dish up. Decorate with chopped aspic, and serve. Cailles en Casserole. (Stuffed Quails, braised in Casserole.) Six quails, i gill milk, 2 oz,. butter, i cupful of bread- crumbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 2 yolks of eggs, parsley, i shallot, 3-4 chicken livers, about 6 slices of bacon, i gill demi-glace or Madere sauce. (See Sauces.) Prepare the quails as for stuffing. Put the sauce and the milk in a stew-pan, add half an ounce of butter, a small bay-leaf, salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg ; when boiling stir in the bread-crumbs (a small cupful).152 Recherche Knirees. and simmer for ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf and stir in the egg-yolks. Cut up small the chicken livers, saute them in butter in which the finely chopped shallot has been blended, season with pepper, salt and aromatics, and rub the liver, etc., through a sieve. Mix the puree with the bread-crumbs, etc., and stuff the bird with this. Wrap each quail in a thin slice of bacon, place them in an earthenware pan (casserole) with the remainder of but- ter, and cook over a slow fire for half an hour. Pour off the fat and finish cooking in the sauce (demi-glace or Madeira). Cailles Roties sous la Cendre. (Quails cooked in Paste Crust.) Bone 6-8 quails, stuff each with a light farce, made of chicken and foie gras, insert also in the centre of each bird a good-sized piece of truffle previously soaked in brandy, cover the breast portion of each bird with lard- ing bacon and a vine leaf, and wrap up each in a thinly rolled out piece of short crust or rough puff paste. Place the birds thus prepared in a braising pan with a close-fitting grooved lid. Fill the lid with burning cinders or charcoal, and cook the birds in this manner over a charcoal fire for about 30-35 minutes. Where this process cannot be adopted, cook the quails in a sharp oven in a closed roasting or baking pan. To serve, place the birds in their paste crust, bacon, and vine leaf, intact on a dish round a croustade of bread, garnish the dish with cresses, and serve with very finely cut fried straw potatoes. Cailles en Caisses a 1’Aspic (Cold). (Quails in Cases with Savoury Jelly.) 4 quails, J lb. liver farce, aspic jelly, a mirepoix, i glass sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls meat glaze, souffle cases.153 'Entrees of Game. Bone the quails, leaving the legs and first joints on each bird, stuff with liver farce, wrap up securely and neatly each bird in a piece of muslin, and tie ends with string. Put the mirepoix, consisting of half a carrot, half a turnip, one onion, one bay-leaf, six peppercorns, bouquet garni, six ounces bacon, all cut up in small squares in a saute- pan with sufficient brown stock to cover the vegetables, put in the quails, add the sherry, and braise gently from 20 to 30 minutes. Set to cool, remove the muslin, cut each bird in half lengthwise ; have ready at hand some oval souffle paper or china cases, line each with a little dressed salad, mask well the surface of each bird with dissolved meat glaze, and when set coat over with thin layers of aspic jelly ; place each half (cut side down) in a souffle case, garnish round the sides with chopped aspic jelly and serve. Souffles de Cailles a la Mar6chale. (Quail Souffles, Marechale style.) 6 quails, \ lb. of lean veal, \ lb. of calf’s liver, i gill espagnole sauce, 2 eggs, i table-spoonful brandy, i table- spoonful Marsala, salt and pepper, i oz. butter, mirepoix of bacon, carrot, onion, etc., \ pint of cooked asparagus tips or broad beans, 4 oz. rice, i pint stock, i gill demi- glace or Madere sauce (see Sauces). Bone the quails, make a fumet with the carcase and boil up with the stock, then strain. Cut the breast portion from the birds and braise them with a mirepoix, and butter in the usual manner ; toss the calf’s liver in a little butter. Remove the skin from the remainder of quails and pound the meat in a mortar with the liver and the veal. When smooth add the egg yolks and the sauce. Season to taste and mix well, then rub through a fine sieve. Add the wine and brandy. Whisk up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate with the farce.154 Recherche Entrees. Butter 12 smalFoval dariole moulds and place in each a braised breast of quail, then fill up with the prepared farce and poach in the oven for about 40 minutes. Blanch and cook the rice in stock, finish it in butter and season to taste and mix carefully with the asparagus or broad beans. Arrange this in the form of a pyramid on a hot dish or shape a border with the rice previously seasoned and range the souffles on top with the vegetable garnish in centre of the dish, placing the quails souffles round it. Sauce over with demi-glace or Mad ere sauce, and serve hot. Souffles de Cailles a la Lusette. (Quail Souffles, Lusette style.) Pound the meat of four quails, free from skin and bone, and mix, whilst pounding, two ounces of cooked rice (rice boiled in stock and drained), and continue to pound till smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, and incorporate with the puree, two yolks of eggs, a table-spoonful of meat glaze, and the necessary seasoning. Stir this in a stew- pan over the fire until it is quite hot. Then add one or two truffles cut into slices and the stiff froth of two whites of eggs. Three-parts fill some buttered paper or china souffle cases, set them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, and finish them in a sharp oven. They will take about twenty minutes in all. Brush over the top of each with meat glaze, i.e., glaze containing essence of quail, and send to table with a boat of Madere sauce. Cailles a la Grecque. (Braised Quails, Greek style.) Procure 8 fat quails and bone them carefully, prepare a farce as follows :—Pound 2 oz. lean beef in a mortar, add to it 3 oz. bread-crumbs, soaked in cream, 2 eggEntrees of Game. 155 yolks and the rind of J lemon, grated, a few sprigs of tarragon and 2 table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Into each quail put a teaspoonful of brandy, and half a truffle. Divide the prepared farce into 8 portions and put them into the body of the quails, then truss them. Have ready 3-4 young carrots, finely shredded and put in a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, when melted put in the quails. Season them with salt and butter and cook covered over the fire for 10 minutes. Now add half a celery head cut finely, also half an onion and a bouquet garni. Moisten with a gill of rich veal stock, cover the birds with thin slices of bacon and cook in a sharp oven for about 15 minutes. With the bones par-fried, make a rich essence, and when strained add it to ij gills demi- glace sauce. Heat up in butter 8 artichoke bottoms and place a quail in each. Dish up in the form of a border and sauce over with the specially prepared sauce. Have ready some very finely cut potato straws, fried to a golden brown, and well drained. Heap these in the centre of the dish and serve. Note.—When only small portions are required, half a quail will suffice for each portion, in that case only 4 quails will be needed for this dish. Cailles a la Tosca. (Farced Quails, Tosca style.) 4 quails, game forcemeat for stuffing, 2 to 3 truffles, risotto for border, 12 stuffed capsicums, 2 oz. bacon, carrot, onion, and bay-leaf for mirepoix, stock, seasoning, Madere sauce. Bone the quails carefully, cook the bones in the stock to flavour it ; fill the empty space of the quails with game forcemeat (see recipe below), and insert the truffles cut into slices, and truss the birds, then place them in a saute-pan containing a bed of braising or sliced bacon.Recherche Kntrees. 156 slice of carrot and onion, and the bay-leaf (a mirepoix), add a gill of stock and J gill of sauce, and cook in brisk oven for half an hour ; baste frequently. In the meantime, prepare the risotto (see recipe below), when finished, fill a border mould with it, and keep hot. Fill the capsicums (use preserved ones) with forcemeat of game, and poach them in stock. Lift out the quails, strain the sauce liquor, skim well, add to it the remainder of the sauce, reduce well, and season to taste. Unmould the risotto on to a hot entree dish, cut each quail in two and dress them pyramidically in the centre of the border. Lay the stuffed capsicums in a circle on top of the risotto border. Pour the reduced sauce over the quails, and serve hot. Risotto. Wash in cold water J lb. of Carolina rice, dry it well and put it in a casserole or stew-pan containing 2 oz,. melted butter. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes, with half small finely minced onion, the latter must not be allowed to brown. Now add about half-pint of stock, and let reduce, then add half pint tomato pulp, and more stock ; continue to cook whilst stirring. Season with salt, pepper and a table-spoonful of chopped pimientos. Lastly add about an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Nearly all the mixture should become absorbed by the time the rice is cooked. Game Forcemeat. (For Cailles a la Tosca.) \ lb. game meat, free from skin and bone, i oz. butter, J lb. calf’s liver, 2 oz. bacon, i shallot, J lb. soft bread (French roll) soaked in milk, i whole egg and 3 yolks, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg. Pass the game twice through a mincing machine, cut157 Entrees of Game. the bacon into thin slices or dice. Melt the butter, add the shallot peeled and chopped, and saute the liver in this for a few minutes. Pound it in a mortar, add the game, mince and pound both together till smooth. Extract all the liquid from the soaked bread and add it to the meat in the mortar, continue to pound ; now add the eggs, and mix thoroughly, season to taste with the above-named condiments. Rub all through a fine sieve. Poach a small quantity of the farce in boiling water to test its consistency, and use as directed. Cailles d I’Indienne. (Braised Quails, Indian style.) Bone six small quails, and truss them again. Shred rather finely one small onion, a small carrot, a white celery stalk, and a few fresh mushrooms. Fry these with the bones in a braising pan with enough butter, till they are of a pale colour. Place the quails on top, and season ; baste with butter, and braise in the oven till they are done. About ten minutes before taking up the birds, add half a gill of Madere sauce, and half a gill of richly flavoured curry sauce (see Sauces). Dress the quails on a neatly shaped border of rice. Boil up the sauce, skim it well, and strain it over the quails. Serve hot. Supremes de Sarcelle d I’Orange (Cold). I large widgeon or a wild duck, i oz. butter, J gill cream, 6 small oranges (even size and smooth-skinned), I small foie gras naturel, aromatic seasoning, orange aspic jelly, rice socle, orange salad and pimiento, a few glace cherries, brown chaudfroid sauce. Steep the duck in boiling water for a few seconds, then bone it, using the carcass, etc., for stock. Cut the fillets into neat round shaped slices, season them with salt and Krona pepper, and saute them in butter over158 Recherche ‘Entrees. a slow fire. When cooked, drain the fillets, and put them under press. In the remainder of butter, toss the trim- mings of the fillets and wings (meat only), season liber- ally, and pound in a mortar. Add to it the foie gras cut into slices, also the cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate enough orange aspic to just set this farce, which may need additional seasoning at this stage. This preparation is called a Mousse, and must be very light. Cut 4 of the oranges through the centre crossways with the point of a knife in zig-zag or fluted fashion, so that each orange forms two even parts. Carefully remove the interior of each, taking care not to break the skins. Fill the shapes carefully with the mousse, and smooth the top over neatly with a knife or spoon. Trim the rounds of duck fillets and coat one side of each with a thin-layer of the mousse. Mask over with chaudfroid sauce, and then with half-set orange aspic and place half a glace cherry in the centre of each. Dress the orange shapes on a socle of rice, and garnish the dish tastefully with orange salad made with the two remaining oranges, and pimiento strips. Sarcelle a la Moscovite. (Widgeon, Moscow style.) I widgeon, J glass sherry, J pint espagnole sauce, i gill stock, I large truffle, 8 small Godivean quenelles, i small bouquet of herbs, i oz. butter, i gill tomato sauce, 2 thin slices cooked ox-tongue, 6 mushrooms, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, fried bread croute, and puff paste fleurons. Singe, draw and wipe the bird, cut into neat joints (wings, legs, and breast portions). Chop up the carccise, and put it in a stew-pan with a little butter, cook over a quick fire to brown ; add the bouquet, moisten with stock, and let simmer for 15 minutes. Season the jointsEnirks of Game. 159 with salt, pepper and a small pinch of grated nutmeg. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan, lay in the pieces, and cook over a brisk fire for a few minutes ; then add the sherry, cover, and reduce a little, then the sauce (espag- nole and tomato), and let simmer slowly till tender. Cut the tongue and truffle into narrow strips (julienne shape). Mince the mushrooms and put these together with the Godivean quenelles into a stew-pan, strain over the prepared gravy of the carcase, previously skimmed, add a little seasoning, and let cook together for ten minutes. Skim the sauce containing the widgeon. Place the croute of bread in the centre of a hot dish (this should be fixed on with a little batter or a mixture of flour and water). Dish up the widgeon as neatly as possible on the croute. Garnish with alternate groups of tongue and truffle, mushrooms and quenelles. Put the gravy with the sauce, boil up, strain the sauce, pour a little over and round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder in a sauce boat. Adjust some paper frills on the ends of the wings and legs, garnish the dish with glazed fieurons and serve. Canard Sauvage a la Nemrode. (Rolled, stuffed and Braised Wild Duck.) I wild duck, duck’s liver and foie gras, i orange, mire- poix for braising, i oz. butter, demi-glace and poivrade sauce, flavoured with port wine and red currant jelly, 8-9 croustade or tartlet crusts, asparagus points and mushrooms, bechamel or supreme sauce, seasoning. Bone the duck, chop up the bones and fry them a little, then put in an earthenware braise pan with the mirepoix and butter. Make a farce with the duck’s liver and foie gras, frying the former in butter in which two finely chopped shallots have been blended. Moisten with veryi6o Recherche Entrees. little brown sauce, spread the farce over the cut side of the duck, season with salt and pepper, roll up and sew up the sides, then braise in the prepared mirepoix till the meat is tender, basting frequently. When done, take up the duck, let it cool a little, then cut into neat slices and keep them hot. Pour off the fat from the mirepoix, put in the demi-glace and poivrade sauce and let reduce, then strain and skim, add i table-spoonful of port wine, and one teaspoonful of red currant jelly. Season with paprika and salt if needed. Fill the croustade shapes with finely cut cooked asparagus points, heated up in white sauce, place on the rounds of duck, glaze over, and put a mushroom head on each. Decorate with finely shredded and blanched orange rind. Dish up, and serve with sauce handed round separately. Chaud-froid de Perdreaux. (Chaud-froid of Partridge.) 2 roast partridges, | pint brown chaudfroid sauce, i crisp lettuce, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, J cucumber, i hard- boiled egg, 8 stuffed olives, J pint aspic jelly, mayonnaise sauce. Cut the partridge into neat pieces, free them from skin, and mask each piece completely with a pale brown chaudfroid sauce. When set, run over sufficient half- set aspic to mask them. Prepare a bed of mixed salad in the centre of the dish, arrange the pieces of partridge neatly in a pile on the salad, placing the breast pieces on top. Garnish with slices of peeled tomato and cucum- ber, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stuffed olives, and chopped aspic jelly. A bed of cooked rice or a border of cooked rice may be used as a foundation, it will improve the appearance of the dish and facilitate the dressing. The rice should be coated with chaudfroid sauce, and masked with aspic.XXVIII. CONTRE-FILETS DE BCEUF, HONGROISE. {p. 98.) HUITRES AU JAMBON, DUBARRY. [P- 65.)i . ■ ' ' ■ >'■'Enirks of Game. i6i Salmi de Perdreau a la Montglas. (Salmi of Partridge.) 2 partridges (trussed), i oz. butter, J pint stock, I small bouquet of herbs, i glass sherry, i gill espagnole, ^ pint tomato sauce, 2 oz. smoked cooked ox-tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 large truffles, J onion, i small carrot, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried bread croute. Roast the partridges till about half done, take them up and let cool. Divide the birds into neat joints. Spread the butter in a flat stew-pan or saute-pan, put in the onion and carrot (previously peeled and sliced), also the bouquet garni ; put in the pieces of partridge, season with salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Cook in a hot oven for about ten minutes and pour off the butter. Moisten with the stock, wine, Espagnole and tomato sauce, cover with the lid, and let it simmer gently for about half an hour. Take out the pieces of partridge, place them in another stew-pan, skim the sauce, and strain over the partridges. Cut the ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles into juli- enne shapes, put these with the above, and simmer for another ten minutes. Put a fried bread croute in the centre of a hot dish, fix it with a little batter. Dress the pieces of partridge, and garnishing neatly on and around the croute, and sauce over. Decorate with a few puff paste fleurons, previously brushed over with liquid meat glazo, and serve hot. Pains Perdreaux a la Royale. (Partridge Timbales.) Bone two plump partridges, remove the skin from the meat and pound the latter in a mortar with 4 ounces of beef suet and 2 ounces of bacon cut into strips ; rub it through a fine wire sieve ; return it to the mortar, add LRecherche Enirks. 162 2 ounces of butter, 3 chopped mushrooms, an ounce of panada and a table-spoonful of allemande sauce. Season the above with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice ; work it thoroughly, and add gradually two whole eggs, one yolk of egg and a little cream. Butter 12 small timbale moulds, line them rather thickly with the above farce, place a dessert-spoonful of salpicon of cooked partridge, ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, in the centre of each ; cover, and fill up with forcemeat. Place them in a saute-pan, pour in some boiling water so as to steam them, cover with a buttered paper, bring it to boil over the fire, then steam in a hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. When done, turn out, dish them up in a circle on a hot dish ; place a small mushroom head and a piece of truffle on each. Pour some supreme sauce over and round them, garnish with a few puff paste fleurons and fanci- fully cut slices of ox-tongue and send to table. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Financiere. (Partridge Cutlets, Financiere style.) 2 partridges (trussed for roasting), 18 preserved mush- rooms, J oz,. butter, i oz. panade, i gill Madere sauce, salt and pepper, a crouton of fried bread, i hard-boiled white of egg, 3 truffles, small bottle Financiere, i egg, J gill veloute sauce, J lb. mashed potatoes. Roast one of the partridges, bone the other, and pound the meat (freed from sinews and skin) till smooth ; add the raw egg, panade, and veloute sauce ; season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Bone the cooked partridge when cold, and cut into thin slices. Stamp out 8 cutlet shapes. Stamp out for garnish some little rounds of white of egg (hard-boiled), also of truffles and of mushrooms. Butter 8 cutlet moulds, decorate them with the little rounds just referred’Entrees of Game. 163 to, and put them on the ice to set. Work up the farce, and put a thin layer in each mould, lay a thin slice of cooked partridge on top, fill up with farce, smooth over with a wet knife, press down well, put them in a saute- pan containing a little hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Heat up the Financiere ragout in the Mad ere sauce, add the remaining mushrooms and truffles, cut into dice or slices, and simmer for a few minutes. Fix the croute of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, around which put a thin border of mashed potatoes. Turn out the cutlets, dress them neatly on the border of mashed pota- toes. Arrange the Financiere as a garniture artistically on the croute, pour the sauce round, and serve hot. Z^phires de Perdreaux a la M6tropole. 2 partridges, i dessert-spoonful chutney, i gill be- chamel, puff paste trimmings, a few glace cherries, J pint rich brown sauce, i wineglassful Port wine, 2 yolks of eggs, cooked spinach, salt and pepper. Reduce the white sauce to about half its volume. Bone the partridges, removing all the meat, and pound it in a mortar till quite smooth ; add the white sauce and the yolks of eggs, mix thoroughly, and moisten with about a gill of brown sauce and half the port wine ; season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice. Test the consistency of the farce before using it in a little boiling stock or water ; if found too firm add a little more sauce, or cream, and if found too moist a little soaked bread or panade. Butter some Zephir or other suitable moulds, fill them with the farce, and poach in the usual manner for about twenty minutes. Meanwhile prepare the sauce, using the carcase of the birds, brown sauce and tomato sauce, also the remainder of port wine. Season and strain.164 Recherche 'Entrees. Turn out the cooked shapes on a hot dish, arrange them neatly. Place a fancifully cut ring or square border of baked puff paste on each. Fill the centre with hot and well seasoned spinach puree, and put half a glace cherry on top of the spinach. Place the dish in a sharp oven for a few minutes, pour a little of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the re- mainder separately in a sauce-boat. Mousses de Perdreaux au Jambon (Cold). (Mousses of Partridge with Ham.) Braize a good sized tender partridge, when done, let it cool and remove the breast, leg, and wing parts, free them from skin and bones, and pound the meat in a mortar adding to it two hard-boiled egg yolks, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, and a handful of cooked green peas. Mix and pound till smooth. Rub the mixture through a fine sieve, put it into a basin and season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Incorporate about J gill of rich brown sauce in which J oz. of gelatine has been dissolved ; a small glass of port or sherry added is good, but not essential. Have ready 8 or more small pea-pod shaped moulds, lined with aspic jelly and decorated with green peas. When set fill the moulds with the prepared puree and place them on the ice to set. Boil 2 oz. of fine semolina in J pint of seasoned milk (bay-leaf, mace, peppercorns, and salt). When thor- oughly cooked and firm enough to shape, take out the bay-leaf, mace and peppercorns and press it into a but- tered oval flat mould. Turn it out when cold, wipe the shape and mask it with aspic, then place it on an oval dish and dress the little mousses neatly upon the semo- lina shape. Garnish the dish tastefully and serve with cold cucumber^sauce (see Sauces),XXIX. CAaSOLETTES A LA STRASBOURGEOISE. (EUFS A LA PRINTANIERE. *J\Entrhs of Game. 165 Mauviettes aux Nouillettes. (Braised Larks with Small Nouilles.) 18 fat larks, mirepoix, 2 truffles, i table-spoonful Indian chutney, J lb. chicken farce, i oz,. butter, i terrine or tin foie gras naturel, 2 oz. ham, i glass port wine, i gill demi-glace, i teaspoonful red currant jelly, \ lb. Nouille paste (see page 28), seasoning. Bone the larks, season the inside, and coat with a very light chicken farce, to which a little rich cream has been added. Insert a fair-sized piece of foie gras in the centre of each, and truss the birds for braizing. Braize them on a bed of mirepoix in the usual way, and when done glaze them and let cool. To the mirepoix add the bones of the larks, and fry them a little over a quick fire ; pour off the fat and add the demi-glace sauce and a little stock. Reduce well, and strain into a small stew-pan. To this add the port wine, red currant jelly, and chutney, reduce again and strain. Keep hot with the larks. Make a neat border of nouille paste, fix it on an entree dish, brush over with egg and bake. With the remainder of this paste make very small nouilles (cut into fine shreds), cook these in salted water, and drain. Next fry or saute them in butter, season to taste, and mix with finely shredded ham or tongue. Range this in the form of a pyramid in the dish with prepared border. Dress the larks on top, sauce over carefully, and send the remainder of the sauce to the table. Ortolans aux Cerises. Bone 6 or more ortolans, stuff them with a liver farce (see page 104), mixed with a few stoneless sour cherries. Place the birds in a saute or braising pan containing I oz. melted butter, i bay-leaf and about 3 oz. cherry kernels. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the oven till the birds a^-e tender.166 Recherche Entrees. Prepare a base of farce or chicken forcemeat, poached in a border mould. Turn out on to a hot dish, cut the ortolans in halves, and range them neatly on top of the border. Pour off the butter from the saute-pan and put in \ gill of veal gravy. Add a puree of sour cherries, pre- viously moistened with a little port wine, and heat up. Put this in the centre of the dish, sauce over the birds with a thin demi-glace and serve hot. Filets de Sanglier a la Russe. (Wild Boar Fillets, Russian style.) Take about two pounds of lean wild boar (loin or leg is best), cut from them some slices about quarter inch thick, flatten these a little with a bat, and shape theminto neat rounds. Place them in a shallow earthenware dish, sprinkle over with two table-spoonfuls of olive oil, two of marinade or vinegar, salt, pepper, a chopped shallot, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Let them lay for two hours, drain and place them in a buttered saut4- pan, sprinkle with a little sherry and a pinch of cayenne, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Take up and glaze, place them on a dish on some timbales of the same size, lay a slice of hard-boiled egg on top of each, sauce over with sauce supreme. Sprinkle with a few drops of dissolved glaze and garnish with small heaps of grated horseradish and chopped ham. To prepare the rice timbales : blanch a quarter of a pound of Patna rice, drain, put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, add one finely chopped shallot, fry a little and add rice. Stir a few minutes over the fire, then moisten with a pint of white stock, and let it simmer until done. Stir occasionally, and add more stock if necessary. Season to taste. Finish with one ounce of grated cheese and one ounce of finely chopped cooked ham. TheEntrees of Game. 167 moisture must be quite absorbed in the rice before it can be used for dishing up. Butter some small flat moulds the size required, fill up quickly with the rice, and turn out immediately and arrange them on the dish. Chartreuse au Chaudfroid de Gibier (Cold). (Chartreuse of Cold Game.) Free from skin and bone some cold cooked game, grouse, partridge or pheasant, and cut the meat into neat slices. Prepare a rich brown sauce flavoured with the carcass (made in fumet), strain and add a few sheets of gelatine dissolved in sufhcient aspic jelly to make the sauce set, but not too firmly. The consistency of the chaudfroid sauce must be tested before use. Line a plain mould with a layer of aspic, decorate it suitably with cooked vegetables, truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, then pour in a layer of brown chaudfroid sauce ; when set place in a layer of slices of cold game, flavoured with seasoning and a little sherry, pour over some sauce and continue thus till the mould is full. Then place it on the ice till set. Decorate the shape when dished up with red currant jelly, cubes of aspic, and parsley. Chartreuses de Mauviettes en Surprise. (Chartreuse of Larks, Cold.) 18 fat larks, 2 large truffles,3 chillies, i natural foie gras, I pint stock, chicken farce, 2 hard-boiled eggs, seasoning, peats and carrots for garnish, blond chaudfroid sauce, aspic. Bone the larks; make a fumet with the carcass, and add the stock to it ; reduce well and strain. Stuff the boned larks with chicken farce and a good sized piece of foie gras, wrap each up in a small piece of muslin cloth, and cook in the stock for thirty minutes. Take up the larks and let cool, remove the muslin and cut them in halvesRecherche Entrees. 168 lengthways. Line eight small quenelle shell moulds with a thin layer of aspic. Decorate with fine strips of truffle and red chilli or pimiento. Next coat the moulds with blond or white chaudfroid sauce, lay in each half a lark, surround the sides with sauce, and place on the ice to set. Turn out the shapes on a dish with a small cube-shaped base in centre replete with a mushroom studded with truffle, and surround the dish with quarters of hard- boiled eggs, having the yolks hidden with a round piece of truffle. Garnish with cucumber slices, a few sprigs of cress, etc. B^cassines Farcies k la Suisse. (Roast Stuffed Snipe, Swiss style.) 6 young snipe, 4 oz. lean bacon, 6 sauce oysters, i stick of white celery, veal gravy, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. ham, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 6-8 thin slices of fat bacon, seasoning. Pick and singe the birds, remove the inside, and chop up about half the intestines ; put this into a basin and mix with the bread-crumbs. Use only the white part (heart) of the celery, wash and chop it finely. Mince the ham finely, beard the oysters and cut them into dice ; put these with the ham into the basin. Season with salt and pepper, and mix all well with 2 oz. melted butter. Stuff the birds with this, truss them, and wrap each bird in a thin slice of bacon. Put the remainder of bacon in an earthenware roasting pan, upon this place the birds, and roast for about twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Baste frequently. When done, take up, untruss the birds, cut each into 3 portions, and dress them on suit- ably shaped pieces of fried bread on a hot dish, pour over some Perigord or truffle sauce, and serve. Timbale de Gibier aux Champignons. (Timbale of Came with Mushrooms.) Take any pieces left from cold game, one or two kinds may be mixed together, such as partridge grouse, pheasant,i6g EntrUs of Game. etc. Remove all skin and bone. Mince the meat and pound in a mortar with a little butter, add some chopped parsley, and a dozen preserved mushrooms, a table- spoonful of chutney, pepper, salt and enough demi-glace or game sauce to make it the consistency of force- meat. Mix well, add a few bread-crumbs, and 2 or 3 eggs, according to the amount of meat used. Butter a suitably sized timbale mould, and dredge it with bread- crumbs ; put in the mixture, and steam or bake for about 45 minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and pour a nicely prepared game or truffle sauce round and serve hot. Note.—If liked, a little minced tongue or ham can be mixed with the game. Pluviers Dor6s ^ la Marianne. (Golden Plovers d, la Marianne.) Pluck, draw, singe, and truss 4 plovers, place them in a stew-pan with 2 oz.. of butter, season with salt and pepper, and let them take colour over a fairly quick fire. Pick and wash a pound of spinach, bring it to the boil quickly in salted water, then drain the spinach. Take up the birds, and put the spinach in the stew-pan with I oz. butter; upon this place the plovers, add a glass of white wine, and J a pint of rich stock or gravy. Cover the pan, and let its contents cook slowly for about an hour. To serve, cut the birds into neat joints, dress them on the spinach, on a hot dish. Pour some hot Madere sauce round the base of the dish, and send to table. B^cassines Brais^es aux Choux. (Braised Snipe with Cabbage.) Truss 8 snipe, par-fry them in a little butter ; drain and add game sauce and i glass of white wine ; braise on a mirepoix for about twenty minutes. Blanch and afterwards cook in stock two firm spring cabbages.170 Recherche 'Entrees, Drain off the stock and finish cooking in a stew-pan, lined with bacon and moistened with a little rich stock ; place the snipe on top of this. Cover the pan, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes longer. Put the cabbage in a buttered basin, lightly pressed in, unmould on to a hot dish, range the snipe round the cabbage ; sur- mount with a silver skewer or hatelet with whole truffles. Sauce over with the sauce in which the snipe were first cooked, and serve hot. Escalopes de Venaison a la Polonaise. (Venison Cutlets, Polish Fashion.) Cut 8 to 10 slices \ an inch in thickness from a leg of venison, flatten each slice with a cutlet bat and trim neat- ly. Heat up an ounce of clarified butter in a saute-pan and broil the slices over a brisk fire until they are nicely browned on both sides. Have ready a sauce prepared in the following manner : crush 12 juniper berries and cook them with J a gill of wine vinegar ; to this add a table- spoonful of meat glaze, • J pint of veloute or allemande sauce, and let simmer gently for 10 to 15 minutes. Strain the sauce, season, and whisk in half an ounce of fresh butter. Arrange the slices of venison in an entree dish, pour over the prepared sauce, and serve hot. Lievre en Civet au Lard. (Jugged Hare, French style.) I hare, a mirepoix (consisting of a carrot and turnip, 1 onion, a small bunch of savoury herbs), 4 oz. bacon and 2 oz. butter, about a pint of brown stock, pint espagnole sauce, I glass port wine, a table-spoonful red currant jelly, salt and pepper, a croute of fried bread, and some croutons or sippets of bread. Procure the hare ready for cooking, wash, wipe and joint it, and cut it into neat pieces. Clean the vegetables,171 ‘Entrees of Game. scrape and peel them, and cut them into slices, cut the bacon into dice, put the butter and bacon in a stew-pan, and add the vegetables ; fry these a nice light brown, then add the pieces of hare and the bunch of herbs. Cook the whole over a brisk fire for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, season with salt and pepper, moisten with stock, boil up, skim and add the sauce, cover and cook gently for about i J hour, take out the pieces of hare, and put them into another stew-pan. Strain the sauce, skim it from fat and add to the hare, put in the wine and red currant jelly, and allow to simmer for another 10 minutes. Fix the bread croute in the centre of a round entree dish, dress the pieces of hare neatly on this, sauce over well with the sauce, and garnish with croutons or sippets of fried or toasted bread. Savoury forcemeat balls are sometimes given as garnish in place of the fried croutons. Lapin Saute a la Provengale. (Stewed Rabbit, Provence style.) Cut a rabbit into neat joints and fry them in a saute- pan containing | gill of sweet oil, and a sliced onion. When sufficiently brown, pour off the oil and add a glass of white wine (chablis or sauterne). Cover and let reduce a little. Next add four small peeled ripe tomatoes cut in quarters, and \ pint of demi-glace or other good brown sauce, season with salt and pepper and savoury herbs, and let sinamer gently till the meat is tender. To serve, dress the pieces of rabbit on a crouton of fried bread placed on a hot dish, reduce the sauce to the desired consistency, skim and strain it over the dish, and serve hot. Lapin frit d la Tartare. (Fried Rabbit with Tartare Sauce.) I young rabbit, i egg, 2 oz. butter, bread-crumbs, seasoning, frying fat, Tartare sauce.172 Recherche Kntrees. Skin, draw, wash and wipe the rabbit, cut it into neat joints, and fry in butter in a saute-pan until three-parts done. Season with pepper and salt, and put the pieces to cool, then trim ; dip each in beaten egg and crumb ; when set, dip in oiled butter and egg and crumb again. Place the pieces in a frying basket and fry a golden colour in clarified fat or lard, drain, dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried or fresh parsley, and serve with Tartare sauce. This dish is sometimes garnished with strips of fried bacon. Darioles de Lapin d la Heine. (Rabbit Darioles with Supreme Sauce.) J lb. rabbit meat freed from bone and skin, 2 07. lean pork, I oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 3 yolks of egg, J gill bechamel sauce, i small tin or terrine of foie-gras pate, seasoning (salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne), supreme sauce. Pound the meat (rabbit and pork) in a mortar until quite smooth ; then add by degrees the panade, the eggs, and bechamel sauce, also about three-quarters of an ounce of butter. Season to taste, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Butter some dariole moulds ; dust the inside with finely chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, and line with a layer of forcemeat as above prepared. Put a piece of foie gras in the centre of each, and fill up with farce (forcemeat). Place the moulds in a saute-pan, with sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up to the moulds. Cover them with buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about twenty-five minutes. To serve, turn out the moulds on to a hot round entree dish. Arrange the darioles neatly, serve hot and pour over the supreme sauce.XXX. POULET DECOUP^: EN CHAUDFROID. [p. I3OJ POULET EN CASSEROLE. {p. 124. ) celeri-raves, tyrolienne {p. 46.). / •V' > •] i i ]Sauces and Auxiliaries. . 173 Sauces and Auxiliaries. Espagnole Sauce. I carrot, i onion, | turnip, i small bouquet of herbs (bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and parsley), 3 ripe tomatoes, i stick of celery, or teaspoonful celery seed, 2 cloves, 2 oz. ham or bacon, i glass claret, ij quarts stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, seasoning. Put the butter into a stew-pan with the bacon and vegetables (except the tomatoes) ; allow them to fry to nice brown. Add the flour and fry this at a more gentle heat until a chestnut brown. Add the stock, stir till boiling, then add the tomatoes cut into slices, and cook for three-quarters of an hour. Add the claret, re-boil, and cook for another 30 minutes, and pass through the tammy cloth. Re-heat and serve as required. It is as well to make this sauce in considerable quantities, to be used as required. A little sherry added to the sauce is an improvement. Bechamel Sauce. i j oz. flour, ij pints milk or milk and white stock, i small bouquet garni, 2 oz. butter, ^ carrot, i small onion or shallot, 10 peppercorns, i small blade of mace, half a bay-leaf, seasoning. Put the milk or milk and stock on to boil with the carrot, cleaned and sliced, the onion or shallot (peeled), the bouquet, peppercorns, mace and bay-leaf. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning (or use white roux), stir injhe milk,Recherche Entrees. 174 etc. (hot). Whisk over the fire until it boils and let simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Take out the bouquet and vegetables, rul) the sauce through a sieve or tammy, return to the stew-pan, season lightly with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. The sauce is then ready for use. If required richer, add a little cream. Demi-Glace Sauce. This sauce is made from the gravy of roast veal, or other roast meat, which is reduced to the desired con- sistency. To each gill add a ladleful of espagnole sauce, and a dessert-spoonful of sherry. Reduce the sauce, season to taste, then pass it through a cloth or strainer, and serve as required. Sauce Gibier. (Game Sauce.) The trimmings or carcases of any kind of game may be used for this sauce, those of grouse or woodcock are preferable. Chop small the trimmings of game, put them in a stew- pan with a small onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of turnip, all cut into slices, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, a bay-leaf, a small blade of mace, and i clove. Fry in butter for a few minutes and moisten with J giU of sherry. Cover and put on the fire to cook for 5 minutes. Now add a good pint of Espagnole or brown sauce, let it come quickly to a boil, skim, keep simmering for 15 minutes longer and pass through a tammy cloth, return to a clean saucepan, season with a little salt, if necessary/, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for serving.175 Sauces and Auxiliaries. Sauce P6rigord. (Truffle Sauce.) 3 large truffles, h pint brown or Espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, i glass Marsala or sherry, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, J oz. fresh butter. Chop finely the truffles, put them in a small stew-pan with the Marsala wine. Cover and reduce to one half ; add the brown sauce, and the tomato sauce, boil for a few minutes, skim and season to taste. Work in the anchovy essence, and a pat of fresh butter. Keep hot in a bain-marie and use as required. Sauce au Kari. (Curry Sauce.) I small onion, i small carrot, J oz. butter, i table- spoonful best curry powder, J small sour apple, J gill tomato puree, i gill Espagnole sauce, i French gherkin, and seasoning. Peel and slice the onion, scrape and slice the carrot, fry both in the butter till the onion has acquired a light brown colour, then add the curry powder, and stir for a few seconds. Next add the apple peeled and chopped, moisten with the tomato puree and the brown sauce, and simmer for 20 minutes. Strain, season to taste, and stir in last of all the finely chopped gherkin. Re-heat, skim, and use as required. Sauce Tomate. (Tomato Sauce.) I lb. ripe tomatoes, ^ bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, J small onion, i oz. of butter, i gill of Espagnole or be- chamel sauce, pepper and salt. Remove the stems from the tomatoes and slice them, put them in a stew-pan with the butter, herbs, and onion.176 Recherche 'Entrees. the latter peeled and finely sliced. Cook till tender, and rub through a sieve. Return to the stew-pan, add the brown or white sauce, boil for about 10 minutes, skim, season, and use as required. Note.—A few drops of vinegar or lemon juice may be added to the sauce where piquancy is liked. Sauce Madere. (Madeira Sauce.) Reduce \ pint Espagnole sauce with gills of good gravy (made of veal stock) strained and free from grease, allow to simmer for about 15 minutes, and season with salt and pepper, add one glass of sherry or Madeira wine, reduce a little,and finish by working in J oz.of meat glaze. Sauce Mirabeau. I gill Espagnole sauce, ij gills stock, \ small onion. small carrot, \ gill Burgundy wine, J gill mushroom liquor, oz. fresh butter, chopped tarragon, chervil and parsley. Prepare a rich stock from the bones and trimmings of a fowl. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and mince both ; fry them in a little butter to a nice light brown colour, drain off the butter, add the wine, cover and let boil quickly for a few minutes, then add the mushroom liquor and the stock, reduce to about half the original quantity, then stir in the Espagnole sauce, and let simmer for about ten minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan, add the remainder of the butter, about a teaspoonful (in all) of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, alsc ^ few drops of lemon juice and seasoning, if found necessary. Whisk over the fire until thoroughly hot (not boiling). Serve with fillets of beef Tournedos or chateau-briant.XXXI. ip- I 17.) FILETS DE BCEUF, A LA RAVIGOTE. {p. 89.) MOU.SSE DE JAMBON .4 L’ecARLATE.\177 Sauces and Auxiliaries. Sauce Piquante. (Sharp Sauce.) J onion or 4 shallots, 3 gherkins (chopped), i table- spoonful chopped capers, i gill vinegar, h teaspoonful anchovy essence, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, | pint Espagnole sauce. Peel and chop the onion or shallots, put them in a stew-pan with the vinegar, bay-leaf and thyme, cover, and reduce to half the quantity of liquor. Strain into another stew-pan, add the chopped gherkins and capers, moisten with the sauce, add the anchovy essence, boil for a few minutes, and use as required. Sauce Robert. Peel and chop finely i small onion, fry it without browning in J oz. of butter, add i glass of white wine and reduce to two-thirds. Next add J pint of demi-glace sauce and cook for 10 minutes longer. Lastly add i teaspoonful of meat glaze, i teaspoonful of French mus- tard, and a pinch of castor sugar. Reheat and serve. Sauce Pompadour. 2 07. butter, J pint veloute or Allemande sauce, i shallot, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 yolks of eggs, \ gill cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt,'"pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Peel and chop the shallot, and mince finely the mush- rooms. Blend the shallot in an ounce of butter, but do not let it take colour ; put in the mushrooms and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the sauce, stir until it boils, skim well, and let it cook a few minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and parsley, stir this into the sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; finish with the remaining ounce of butter, but do not let it boil again. Keep in the bain-marie until required for serving. MRecherche Knirees. 178 Sauce Poivrade. (Pepper Sauce.) Prepare a mirepoix of \ minced carrot, \ onion, 2 shallots, a little parsley and thyme, browned in i oz. of butter, add i gill of vinegar, cover and reduce to one- third, then add \ pint espagnole sauce and 10 crushed peppercorns, cook for 10 minutes, then skim and strain. Season with a pinch of Nepaul pepper and serve. Sauce Br§teuil. Prepare J a pint of a fish stock with the trimmings of fish, bones, etc., strain, and reduce to half with a glass of Rhine wine. Then add i oz. of mushroom trimmings, some truffle essence and peelings, also i gill of veloute or Allemande sauce, and J gill of cream. Simmer for ten minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth. Re-heat, and bind with 2 yolks of eggs, finish with a pat of fresh butter, and a few drops of lemon juice, also additional seasoning if required. Sauce Mand6. This consists of ij gills of Hollandaise sauce into which I table-spoonful of cooked cucumber puree, i table-spoonful of fish essence, i dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, and a grate of lemon rind have been incorporated. Sauce Bulgarienne. This consists of i gill of mayonnaise to which J gill of boiling cream is added, also a table-spoonful of finely chopped celery, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato pulp. Whisk up over a pan of boiling water to get just warm. Season to taste and serve. Serve this sauce with the Quenelles a la Moelle. rv179 Sauces and Auxiliaries. Sauce Colbert. Put into a saucepan one gill of espagnole or good brown sauce, half a glass of sherry, one dessert-spoonful of meat glaze, half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, boil up, skim, and add one dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil, and finish with a pat of fresh butter whisked in by degrees. Sauce Mousseline. (White Mousseline Sauce.) \ gill cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 3 crushed long pepper- corns, I oz. butter, salt, nutmeg, lemon juice. Put the cream, egg yolks, and pepper in a stew-pan, place this in a bain marie or stew-pan half filled with boiling water, beat up with a whisk for a little time, then add one at a time little pieces of butter ; stir all the time, but do not add any more butter until each piece has been thoroughly worked in and is absorbed in the sauce. The sauce when finished will have the appearance of a frothy cream, and should then be passed through a tammy cloth. Just before serving finish off with a little rich white stock, a few drops of lemon juice, a pinch of salt, and a grate of nutmeg should be added during the process of whisking. Serve with chicken mousse or soufflees. Sauce Champignons, blanche. (White Mushroom Sauce.) Boil together ij gills of bechamel sauce and the same quantity of veal stock (or other white stock), reduce to about half its original quantity. Skim well and add 10 to 12 preserved mushrooms cut into slices, i table-spoonful of mushroom liquor, i dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, and about half a gill of Chablis or other white wine. Let the whole boil for ten minutes, season to taste, then add i table-spoonful of cream, and serve.i8o Recherche Entrees. juice, and i to 2 livers of game. Sauce Italienne. (Brown Mushroom Sauce.) Chop finely lo to 12 preserved mushrooms (cham- pignons), put them in a small stew-pan with a little of the liquor and a small glass of sherry, cover and allow to reduce well. Now add half a pint of demi-glace or thin Espagnole sauce ; boil up, skim, season to taste, and use as required. Sauce Chateaubriand. (Also called Crapaudine Sauce.) I gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, 2 cloves, i sprig of thyme, 2 shallots, 12 peppercorns, about i-| gill meat glaze, the juice of J lemon, 2 07. butter, J teaspoonful chopped tarragon. Peel and chop the shallots, put them with the wine, cloves, thyme, and crushed peppercorns in a small stew- pan, cover and reduce to half its quantity, strain into another stew-pan, add the lemon juice. Work in the meat glaze and butter bit by bit (keep the stew-pan m the bain marie), add the tarragon last of all. Whisk well, and serve very hot with fillet steak, Tournedos, Chateaubriand, etc. Champagne Sauce. Put two cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce into a stew-pan on the fire ; let it reduce a little, add a glass of champagne, and the essence remaining from a braised ham. Reduce the whole for ten minutes, or longer if found too thin. Strain through a pointed strainer and serve with braised ham or braised duck. Sauce Chasseur. J pint Mad ere sauce, J gill game liquor (fumet), lemonSauces and Auxiliaries. i8i Chop the liver finely and toss in a little butter, then cook with the sauce and liquor of game for about ten minutes, season to taste, and skim, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and one of red currant jelly. Use as required for game entrees, etc. Sauce Zingara. Reduce J a gill port wine with i gill tomato puree, add I gill salmi sauce and reduce with J a gill of rich stock ; then strain on to a stew-pan containing finely shredded ham, tongue, mushrooms and truffles, about i dessert- spoonful of each and a few shreds of orange rind. Boil up for five minutes and serve as directed for Canard a la St. Germain. Sauce Bordelaise. I pint Espagnole or brown sauce, i wineglassful claret, 2 finely chopped shallots, | 02. meat glaze, i teaspoonful chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon and chervil), a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper. Put the wine and shallots in a stew-pan, reduce to half, add the sauce and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Take off the scum, add the chopped herbs and meat glaze. Season with sugar, salt and pepper, and give it one more boil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. Note.—In most cases where Bordelaise sauce is used and especially so with beef, some thin round slices of beef marrow are blanched and put on the meat before it is served or else warmed up in the sauce. Sauce G^noise. (Rich Brown Fish Sauce.) I sliced onion, i shallot, J clove of garlic, i oz. butter, small bouquet garni, i teaspoonful anchovy essence,Recherche Knirees. i82 I glass red wine (Burgundy), i pint Espagnole sauce (made from fish stock if desired), a pinch of mignonette pepper. Melt the butter in a stew-pan and fry onion, shallot, garlic and. bouquet, add the wine, let simmer until the onions are done, then add the sauce and let simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy. Add the pepper and anchovy essence, and use as directed. Sauce Aigre-Douce. I small onion, J teaspoonful castor sugar, J glass white wine, 2 dessert-spoonfuls red currant jelly, J oz. butter, J pint Espagnole sauce, saltspoonful dry mustard. Peel and mince the onion, fry it in the butter to a nut brown colour, add the mustard, moisten with the wine, and reduce a little. Next add the Espagnole sauce and the red currant jelly, simmer gently for 20 minutes, season to taste and strain. Use as directed. Sauce Veloute. Dissolve ij oz. of butter in a stew-pan, stir in i oz. of sifted flour, cook a little without browning, moisten with a quart of rich and highly seasoned chicken or veal stock, add half a bay-leaf and 8 peppercorns, stir and simmer slowly for half an hour, take off the scum, and pass through a tammy cloth or napkin, return to the stew- pan. Finish with i oz. of fresh butter and use as required. Stock for Veloute.—The stock from which veloute sauce should be made is made from veal bones, chicken bones, and trimmings, a flavouring of carrot, onion, celery, bouquet garni, and seasoning with an appropriate quan- tity of water.Sauces and Auxiliaries. 183 Sauce Allemande. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add an ounce of flour, stir for a few minutes without browning Dilute with rather more than a pint of chicken stock, stir until it boils, season with salt, pepper and grated nut- meg ; let it simmer for half an hour. Skim, and finish with a liasion of two yolks of eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and J oz. of fresh butter. Whisk over the fire until the eggs begin to set, but do not let it boil, add a tea- spoonful of lemon juice, and pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth. Sauce R^gence. 2 small shallots, J oz. butter, i gill fish stock (prepared with the fish bones and some vegetable to flavour), J gill Marsala wine, ij gill Espagnole sauce, parsley, i bay- leaf, I sprig of thyme, i teaspoonful horseradish mustard, I table-spoonful meat glaze, i dessert-spoonful truffle trimmings, seasoning. Peel and chop finely the shallots ; fry them a golden brown in the butter, add the fish stock and the wine, cover and let reduce to half the original quantity ; now add a few sprigs of parsley, the bay-leaf and thyme, also the Espagnole sauce, let simmer gently for twenty min- utes, then strain and tammy the sauce. When required for table stir in the horseradish mustard and the meat glaze ; the latter should be incorporated in little bits. Season to taste, stir in lastly the truffles finely chopped, re-heat slowly, and use as directed. Hollandaise Sauce. i|- 07. of butter, i oz. of flour, 3 gills of white stock, a little cream, salt and pepper, a httle lemon juice, the yolks of 3 eggs, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil. Melt butter, stir in the flour smoothly, then add the'Recherche 'Entrees. 184 stock, and stir over the fire till it boils ; add the herbs and let simmer for 15 minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add them to the cream, and strain into the sauce. Re-heat it without letting it boil and add the lemon juice. Note: A richer sauce is made by omitting the flour and increasing the butter, which must be whisked in. Cardinal Sauce. J pint veloute or bechamel sauce, juice of J lemon, i dessert-spoonful meat glaze, \ gill mushroom liquor, i oz. butter, \ 07. lobster coral, or i oz. lobster butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Reduce the sauce with the mushroom liquor, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; add the lemon juice, and whisk in the butter and lobster coral— the latter finely chopped. Strain through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, return to the stew-pan, stir in the meat glaze, and keej^ hot in the bain marie until required for serving. Supreme Sauce. Put an ounce-and-a-half of butter in a stew-pan ; when melted, stir in an ounce of flour ; allow it to fry a little without browning. Add gradually ih pints of rich chicken stock, stir until it boils, and allow to simmer for 20 minutes. Skim, add one gill of cream and a table-spoonful of lemon juice. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Pass through a tammy cloth or napkin, return to a clean stew-pan, re-heat, and whisk in J 07. of fresh butter. B6arnaise Sauce. 2 shallots, peeled and chopped finely, a few fresh tarra- gon leaves, i gill French wine vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, J teaspoonful mignonette pepper, a little salt, J gillSauces and Auxiliaries. 185 bechamel sauce, 3 oz. butter, J teaspoonful chopped parsley, and tarragon leaves. Put the vinegar, shallots and whole tarragon leaves in a stew-pan, cover it and let the liquor reduce to about an eighth of the original quantity. Remove from the fire, cool a little, add the sauce and re-heat, then stir in the yolks of eggs, season with salt and mignonette pepper, whisk the whole over the fire and incorporate by degrees the butter. This sauce must on no account be allowed to boil when once the eggs are added. Pass it through a tammy cloth. Return to another stew-pan and whisk again over hot water or in a bain marie. Lastly, mix with a few chopped tarragon leaves, and serve as directed. Sauce Trianon Froide (Cold). (For Filets de Volaille Trianon.) Stir into one gill of Mayonnaise about half a gill of Italian tomato pulp, i dessert-spoonful of Soubise puree and half a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon leaves. Cut half a Spanish pimiento and one French gherkin into very fine short julienne strips, and add to the sauce which is then ready to serve. Sauce Bokar. This is made as follows :—Heat up \ gill of tomato puree with J gill of bechamel. Mix J oz. sweet Bokar paprika with a little cream, and add to the above. Add a little beetroot, lemon juice, and 3 leaves of dis- solved gelatine, season and strain. Sauce Bercy. Reduce ij gills of fish stock to about one-third its quantity, then add one chopped shallot previously tossed in butter, i glass white wine, i teaspoonful of meat or fish glaze ; reduce again, and add J gill of veloute sauce.Recherche Kntrees. 186 and the juice of \ lemon. Tammy and return to the stew-pan, finish with i oz. of herb butter, and serve. Note.—^The herb butter is made with finely chopped fennel, tarragon, and chervil, parsley and fresh butter. Sauce aux Concomhres. (Cold Cucumber Sauce.) Peel thinly a small cucumber, cut it into small pieces, boil in salted water till tender, drain, and rub through a hair sieve ; return the pulp to the stew-pan, add a gill of reduced bechamel sauce, allow it to reduce and let it cool. Whip up \ gill of cream, work into this a gill of mayonnaise sauce, and mix slowly with the reduced cold sauce ; season with a little salt and pepper if needed. The sauce is then ready for serving. Sauce froide aux Fines Herbes. (Cold Green Herb Sauce.) Blanch a handful of washed sorell leaves, a small bunch of parsley leaves, and a few tarragon leaves, drain well and pound in a mortar with 3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs and a gill of mayonnaise sauce. Rub through a fine sieve and blend with more mayonnaise. Care must, however, be taken so as to retain a green tint to the sauce. Sauce Chaudfroid Blonde. (Brown Chaudfroid Sauce.) \ pint of rich Espagnole sauce, i glass Marsala or sherry, 5-6 sheets of French gelatine, i gill of aspic, J gill cream. Warm up the Espagnole sauce, add the wine, soak the gelatine, drain and melt it, and strain it into the sauce with the melted aspic ; boil it for a few minutes, skim, and pass through a tammy cloth, let it cool a little, and add the cream ; season it necessary, and use as required.Sauces and Auxiliaries. 187 Sauce Chaudfroid Blanche. (White Chaudfroid Sauce.) J pint of veloute or supreme sauce, i gill of cream, i gill of aspic jelly, 5-6 sheets of French gelatine, a few drops of chilli vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice. Heat up the supreme sauce in a well tinned stew-pan, and pour in the dissolved aspic. Soak the gelatine drain it, melt and strain into the sauce, boil up and simmer for a few minutes, then add the lemon juice and vinegar, boil up again, and pass through a tammy cloth. Allow to cool a little, next add the cream and use as requested. Pink Chaudfroid Sauce. Proceed as directed in the foregoing recipe, but use i gill of white sauce and i gill of tomato pulp or puree in place of veloute or supreme sauce. Sauce Chaudfroid Verte. (Green Chaudfroid Sauce.) i a pint of rich bechamel sauce, i gill of aspic jelly, J a gill of puree of green peas, i teaspoonful of lemon juice, 5 sheets of French gelatine, J a gill of cream, a few drops of spinach greening, i dessert-spoonful of liquid meat glaze. Proceed as directed for white chaudfroid sauce. Re- duce the puree of peas before adding it to the sauce. The addition of spinach greening must be regulated according to the tint required. Work in the meat glaze (liquid), whisk a little and add the cream last of all. Mayonnaise. Two yolks of eggs, J teaspoonful of dry mustard, i teaspoonful of salt, J teaspoonful castor sugar, | pint best salad oil, 20 drops of chilli vinegar, i teaspoonful shallotRecherche Rntrees. 188 vinegar, i dessert spoonful French wine, and sufficient tarragon vinegar to bring to the consistency required. Put the raw eggs in a basin ; add mustard, salt, and sugar ; mix with a wooden spoon. Continue stirring in the same direction, and add the oil drop by drop. Mix the vinegars together ; add these gradually. If the mixture gets too stiff to stir when all the oil is worked in, add a little more vinegar as needed. Mayonnaise au Citron. (Lemon Mayonnaise.) 2 yolks of eggs, i table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 2 lemons, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, 3 table-spoon- fuls nut oil, I gill cream, salt, pepper, paprika. Put the egg yolks into a basin with half a teaspoonful of salt, stir with a wooden spoon, and add drop by drop the oil ; when creamy, add the vinegar and gradually the cream ; then incorporate the lemon juice (strained). Continue to stir the mixture for another 15 minutes, then add the seasoning and a little grated lemon rind. Lastly stir in a dessert-spoonful of boiling water. It is then ready to serve. Note.—The mixing of above ingredients should be done on the ice or in a very cool place, else it is apt to curdle. Gel6e a TAspic. (Aspic Jelly.) I quart rich veal stock or other white and fairly clear stock, I small bouquet garni consisting of parsley, tarra- gon, chervil, thyme, and lemon rind, ij oz. leaf gelatine, I gill of sherry or Sauterne, i gill of French wine vinegar, I lemon, 2 whites of eggs, J stick celery (washed). The stock should be cold ; remove any fat that may be on the surface. Put the gelatine and bouquet garniSauces and Auxiliaries. 189 with the stock in a stew-pan. Cut the celery into small pieces, beat up the whites of eggs a little, and mix with the stock. Stir over a brisk fire continually until nearly boiling, then add the wine, vinegar, and lemon juice, and let boil up. Move the stew-pan on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a jelly bag or cloth, repeat straining until perfectly clear. Keep the aspic in a basin, and use as required. Note.—During the summer months the quantity of gelatine used for aspic and cream should be rather less than that stated in the recipe, but the stiffness of aspic should in all cases be tested before being used. Tomato Aspic. Heat up half a pint of tomato pulp, add to it half-ounce leaf gelatine (previously soaked in water), half-gill of aspic, and one table-spoonful of meat glaze ; stir until it boils, season to taste with salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper, rub it through a sieve, and use as directed. Tomato Mayonnaise. To a pint of well prepared and fairly stiff mayonnaise add half as much tomato puree or cold tomato sauce. Mix gradually and season to taste. Aspic Cream. One and half gills aspic jelly, half-gill double cream, one teaspoonful lemon juice, a pinch of white pepper, a pinch of castor sugar. Put the cream into a basin, stir with a whisk, and gradually add the aspic, which must be liquid, but on no account hot ; then add the lemon juice and seasoning, rub through a silk sieve, and use as directed.Recherche Entrees. IQO Aspic Mayonnaise. Half pint aspic jelly, one gill stiff mayonnaise. Dissolve the aspic, and let it get partially cool, then stir it gently into the mayonnaise, and use before it begins to set according to direction. Sauce Ravigote, Chaude. (Hot Ravigote Sauce.) This is a white sauce flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with white wine vinegar, finished with a liaison of butter and cream and fine herbs. Season to taste and serve. Sauce R6moulade. Chop finely 2 small peeled shallots, put them into a stew-pan with enough vinegar to cover, and cook for ten minutes ; then add a few tarragon leaves, one dessert- spoonful of capers, 3 small gherkins, and 2 anchovy fillets all chopped finely. When cold, mix with about \ pint of well made mayonnaise sauce, and serve as required.XXXII EPIGRAMMES DE FAISAN AUX PETITS POIS, {p. 148.) CROMESQUIS A EA RU3SE iP‘ 35-)V \ A. \ A \ \ X u $■ i.y S. ' ”■ ■i \ ; V. \ ^v.x ■' \ "4M V . • ■ “x%:v ' <'■ / i' / y r : ' ■ : - fS ' ' ■ '.^^^ \ \ V ' s >--. \: .'.'{i-j ,r \ ;.- •t/ A. •,X- ^ t- Jfv ■,/f 1 - X .•■■ V.- V .^¥:' '.f>»>;Vv.\<!>*, A - <';■ ■f -. 4 ^ •■'XsT . ■■ X i ] ! . s ' "f- >*>v V..V X ILIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS PAGE Becassines Braisees aux Clioux... xxiv. Bombe de Volaille Trianon xv. Brochettes d’Agneau Turbigo i. Cailles roties sous la Cendre xvi. Canard a la Nemrode v. Caneton a la Rouemiaise iii. Cassolettes a la Strasbourgeoise xxix. Cassolettes de Gibier xx. Celeri-raves a la Tyrolienne xxx. Champignons a la Reine xii. Chapon a la Dauphine xvii. Chapon a la* Bechamel xxiii. Chartreuse d’Eperlan a la Mande •• vi. Chartreuse de Filets de Veau a la Crecy xxv. Chartreuse au Chaudfroid de Gibier xxvii. Concombre farcie, Agrasienne xi. Contre-filets de Boeuf Hongroise xxviii. Cotelettes de Homard a I’Ameri- caine iii. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Gelee... ix. Cotelettes de Pre-Sale a la Nan- taise xix. Cotelettes de Volaille, Melba xii. Cremes de Faisan a I’Ecarlate x. Cromesquis a la Russe xxxii. Darioles de Foie Gras en Belle- Vue xix. Darioles de Volaille a la Diplo- mate xxv. Dominos^a la Rochelais viii. Entre-cotes grilles Edouard VII. ... i. Epigrainmes de Faisan aux Petits Pois xxxii. Epinards farcis a la Moelle viii. Escalopes ou Filets de Veau a la Parisienne xxiii. Escalopes de Foie Gras a la Gelee xxi. Filets de Boeuf a la Ravigote ... xxxi. Filets de Boeuf a la Viennoise... xxii. Filets de Sole Saint Georges xxii. Filets de Turbot, Isabelle ix. PAGE Huitres au Jambon, Dubarry... xxviii. Medaillons de Saumon, Diplomate vi. Medaillons de Volaille ii. Mousse de Chapon, Belle Helene xiv. Mousse de Jambon a I’Ecarlate ... xxxi. Mousse de Jambon, Froid xi. Mousselines de Chapon en caisses... x. Noisettes de Mouton Renaissance xvii. Noix de Boeuf a la Viart xvi. CEufs a la Printaniere xxix. Pains de Ris d'Agneau a la St. Germain vii. Petits Choux a la Lorraine xxvi. Petites Mousses de Caneton a la Moresco xxi. Petits Pains de Mauviettes i. Petits Souffles de Foie de Veau... xx. Petits Souffles de Saumon Gauloise ii. Pluviers a la Marianne xv. Poularde ou Chapon cn Chaud- froid xviii. Poulet en Casserole xxx. Poulet Decoupe en Chaudfroid... xxx. Poulpetons de Rognons, Parmen- tier xviii. Quenelles de Canard a la Bul- garienne iv. Ris d’Agneau en Caisses xx. Souffles de Cailles Marechale viii. Supremes de Sarcelle a I’Orange xxvi. Tartelcttes de Ris de Veau x. Timbale Turinoise vii. Timbale de Ris de Veau a la Reine xxvii. Timbale de Volaille a la Pasqual xxiv. Timbales de Volaille, Rothschild ... iv. Topinambours au Risotto xiii. Tournedos de Boeuf a la St. Jean xiii. Tournedos a la Seymour v. Zephires de Crabes la Royale ... v. Zephircs de Perdreaux Metropole... x. Zephires de Ris d’Agneau Harle- quin xiv.A Nice Appetite is nicely suited with a Corn Flour Baked Pudding made with Brown & Poison’s f • Corn Flour. To have it at its best observe these important points:— 1. Use pure milk without water. 2. Have the proper proportions of Corn Flour to milk, 3 —and very important—give ten minutes brisk boiling, this brings out the de- licate flavour of the Corn Flour. Follow the recipe on every Brown &- Poison Packet. How to make Light Pastry. If you wish to make lighter pastry—and make it more quickly— If you would like a little list of little things easy and quick to make— Send to your grocer at once for a Td. or 3|d. packet of Brown & Poison’s raising powder “ Paisley Flour ” (Trade Mark). With “ Paisley Flour” you can bake better in less time. Every packet contains recipes easy enough for beginners, yet sufficiently good for a skilled cook to make.193 GENERAL INDEX. LIGHT ENTRIES. Beignets de Jambon et Foie Gras Beignets de Volaille Canoelons a la Neva Cassolettes de Gibier (cold) Cassolettes a la Strasbourgeoise Crepinettes de Foie de Pore Crepinettes de Gibier k la Chasseur Cromesquis a la Russe Darioles de Foie Gras en Belle Vue (cold) Dominos a la Rochelais Escalopes de Foie Gras ^ la Bagration (cold) ... Foie Gras Mousse (cold) Friandines de Ris d’Agneau Macaroni a la Rivoli Mousselines de Ris d’Agneau (cold) Omelette Princi^re Pains de Ris d’Agneau a la St. Germain (cold) Parfait de Foie Gras (cold) Petites Bombes a la Milan aise Petites Bouchees de Concombre 41’lndienne (cold Petites Bouchees de Faisan a la Mod^rne Petites Cotelettes 4 I’Ecarlate (cold) Petits Souffles k la Bayonne Petits Souffles de Foie de Volaille Petits Souffles a la Henri IV Petits Timbales k la Regence (cold) Poulpetons de Rognon a la Parmentier Ramequin de Poulet Ravioh a la Napolitain e Ris d’Agneau Braises en Caisses (cold) Rissolettes k la Solferino Saussalis a la Walkow Tartelettes de Ris de Veau aux Truffes Timbale Turinoise PAGE 21 23 30 25 19 31 25 35 21 15 22 73 29 34 28 33 23 20 20 32 26 24 19 23 26 i8 17 24 26 30 31 34 16 15 VEGETABLE ENTRl^ES AND FARINAGE DISHES. Artichauts a la Madras 41 Aubergines Sicihenne 39 Beignets d Ajrtichauts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 43 NGeneral Index 194 Cassolettes cle Celeri ct Macaroni Celeri-Raves Tyrolienne Champignons a la Reine Choux Farcis braises en Beurre Cceurs d’Artichauts, Maraicherc Concombre farcie a la Moelle Fonds d’Artichauts a la Creole Italian Potato Border Kniokis a la Russe CEufs a la Printanierc (cold) Petits Cannelons an Florador Petits Choux a la Lorraine Petits Souffles au Celeri Petites Timbales a la Duxelle Ramequins aux Garrottes Ravioli a 1’ Italienne Riz a la Hongroise Riz a ITndienne Riz a la Polonaise Risotto for Entree Risotto a r Italienne Souffles d’Artichauts Souffles glaces a TArgenteuil Spaghetti a la Maltaise Timbales de Ble Vert Timbales de Legumes a ITndienne .,. Tomates a la Rentiere Topinambours au Risotto PAGE ... 40 ... 46 ... 48 ... 38 ... 45 ... 49 ... 45 ... 57 ... 54 ... 51 ... 53 ... 43 ... 40 ... 47 ... 50 ... 50 ... 51 ... 52 ... 52 ... 156 ... 53 ... 43 ... 42 ... 43 ... 40 ... 36 ... 37 ... 54 FISH ENTREES (POISSON). Banquettes de Poisson a la Choisy Chartreuse d’Eperlan a la Mande Cotelettes de Homard farcies a 1’Americaine ... Croustade de Homard Filets de Sole a la Diane Filets de Sole Saint Georges Filets de Turbot Isabelle ... Huitres en Gelee a la Russe (cold) Huitres au Jambon Dubarry Medallions de Saumon a la Diplomate Paupiettes de Sole a la Royale Petits Souffles de Saumon, Gauloise Quenelles de Homard Bourgeoise Roulettes de Sole a la Russe (cold) Timbale de Merluche, Milanaise Timbales de Turbot, Frascati Vol-au-VentalaChambord Zephires de Crabes 4 la Royale (cold) . 63 68 64 62 61 60 56 66 65 57 61 58 65 60 67 56 66 • • • aft 59195 General Index ENTRIES OP VEAL (DU VEAU). PAGE Blanquette de Veau 86 Chartreuse de Veau a la Crecy (cold) 70 Cotel ettes de Veau k la Bretagne 82 Cotelettes de Veau a la Parisienne 81 Cotes de Veau a la Marguerite (cold) 79 Escalopes de Ris de Veau 74 Escalopes de Veau Farcies aux Cepes 69 Filets de Veau k la Garibaldi 78 Filetsde Veau a la Madeleine 80 Goulash de Veau ^laHongroise 86 Grenadins de Veau 82 Noisettes de Veau k la Turenne 87 Paupiettes de Veau a la Jardiniere 84 Pieds de Veau k 1’ Horly 83 Queues de V eau a la Russe 85 Ris de Veau a la Biarritz (cold) 71 Ris de Veau a la Brandimbourg 73 Ris de Veau a la Chevalier 76 Ris de Veau ^ la Du Barry 73 Ris de Veau a la St. Michel (cold) 75 Roulardines de Veau 88 Socle of Rice for cold Entrees 72 Tete de Veau en Tortue 83 Timbale de Ris de Veau a la Reine 77 Timbale de Veau d la Cardinal 77 Veal Forcemeat for Paupiettes ... 85 Veau saute a la Milanaise 87 Vol-au-Vent aux Quenelles de Veau 76 Zephires de Ris de Veau a la Harlequin (cold) 72 ENTRIES OF BEEF (DU BCEUF). Aiguillettes de Boeuf en Casserole Chateaubriand a la Scribe Coeurs de Filets de Boeuf k la Rossini Contre-Filets de Boeuf a la Hongroise Contre-Filet de Boeuf a la Demidoff Entreco I;es de Boeuf en Casserole Entrecotes de Boeuf a la St. Clair Entrecotes Grilles, Edouard VII Filets de Boeuf a la Ravigote (cold) Filets de Boeuf aux Bananes Filets de Boeuf a la Jamaique Filets Mignons de Boeuf a la Richmont Filets de Boeuf a la Viennoise Langue de Boeuf Braise aux Epinards Noix de Boeuf k la Viart ... 99 ... 94 ... 92 ... 98 ... 98 ... lOI ... TOO ... lOI ... 89 90 ... 92 ••• 93 ... 91 ... 89 ... 103196 General Index PAGE Queues de Boeuf ^ I’Alsacienne 102 Queues de Boeuf a la Soubise 102 Timbale de Boeuf a la Bourbonnaise 99 Tournedos de Boeuf a 1’Anna 95 Tournedos de Boeuf a la Bordelaise 97 Tournedos de Boeuf ^ la Choron 94 Tournedos de Boeuf a la Kalisch 97 Tournedos de Boeuf a I’Othello 97 Tournedos de Boeuf 4 la Seymour 94 Tournedos de Boeuf k la St. Jean 96 Tournedos de Boeuf ala Ventadour 96 entrees op mutton (DU MOUTON). Brochettes d’Agneau Turbigo Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Dantzig (cold) Cotelettes d’Agneau Farcies a la Frau9aise Cotelettes d’Agneau Marienbad Cotelettes d’Agneau k la Maxime Cotelettes d’Agneau k la Nantaise Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Russe (cold) Noisettes d’Agneau a la Renaissance (cold) Cotelettes de Mouton k 1’Americaine Cotelettes de Mouton k la Byron Cbtelettes de Mouton a la Gelee (cold) Cotelettes de Mouton ^ la Lion d’ Or Cotelettes de Mouton k la Princesse Cotelettes de Mouton k la R6forme Cotelettes de Mouton k la Soubise Cotelettes de Mouton St. Germain Filets de Mouton a la Tyrolienne Cotelettes de Pore a la Robert Jambon k la Bourgogne Mousse de Jambon (cold) Souffld de Jambon a I’Espagnole . 108 . 105 . 106 . 107 . 104 . 108 . 106 . 109 . 115 . Ill . 112 . 114 . 113 • 113 . no . no .113 . 116 . 118 . 117 . 117 ENTRIES OF POULTRY (DE LA VOLAILLE). Ailerons de Volaille a la Creole Bombe de Volaille k la Trianon (cold) Canard aux Olives Caneton k la Bohemienne Caneton a la Rouennaise Chapon a la B6chamel ... Chapon k la Dauphine Chartreuse de Volaille k la Balmoral (cold) Cotelettes de Volaille k la Melba (cold) Darioles de Canard k la St. Germain Darioles de Creme de Volaille (cold) ..» 126 135 141 HS 138 137 120 127 135 143 140197 General Index Darioles de Volaille a la Diplomate (cold) Dinde a la Florentine Escalopes de Poulet aux Epinards Filets de Poulet ^ la Helder Filets de Poulet aux Huitres Medallions de Volaille a la Conde Mirepoix Mousse de Din don a I’Ecarlate (cold) Mousse de Chapon k la Belle Helene (cold) Mousselines de Caneton k la Moresco (cold) Mousselines de Chapon en Caisses Palmettes de Volaille Valeska (cold) Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Maltaise Pigeons sautes aux Salsifits Pigeons ^ la Valence Poulet en Casserole Poulet decoupe en chaud-froid Poulet frit k la Villeroi Poulet Saute a la Marengo Poulet Saute a la Phillipe Poulet Saute a la President Poussins Poeies ^ la Madrid Quenelles de Canard k la Bulgarienne Salmi de Canard aux Navets Souffle de Volaille k la Hollandaise Supreme de Caneton a la Souvaroff (cold) Supreme de Volaille a la Mirette Supremes de Volaille a la Strasbourgeoise Timbales de Volaille a la Parqual (cold) ... Timbales de Volaille a la Rothschild (cold) Timbale de Volaille a la Toulouse (cold) ... PAGE ... 129 ... 139 ... 130 ... 137 ... 125 ... 130 ... 13I ... 120 ... II9 ... 144 ... 138 ... 134 ... 147 ... 146 ... 139 ... 124 ... 130 ... 125 ... 123 ... 123 ... 122 ... I2I ... 142 ... 143 ... I4I ... 146 ... 128 ... 128 ... 133 ... 132 ... I3I ENTRIES OF GAME (DU GIBIER). Becassines Farcies k la Suisse ... 168 Becassines Braisees aux Choux ••• ••• ••• ... 169 Cailles en Caisses k 1’Aspic (cold) * • • • * • »• • ... 152 Cailles en Casserole ••• ••• ... 151 Cailles a la Grdcque • . • • • • • • • ... 154 Cailles k 1’ Indien n e ••• ••• ••• ... T57 Cailles roties sous la Cendre ••• ••• ••• ... 152 Cailles a la Tosca ••• ••• ... 155 Canard Sail vage ^ la Nemrode ••• ••• ... 159 Chartreuse au Chaudfroid de Gibier • • • « • • • • • ... 167 Chartreuse de Mauviettes en Surprise ••t ••• ••• ... 167 Chaud-froid de Perdreaux ... 160 Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Financiere ... ••• ••• ••• ... 162 Darioles de Lapin a la Reine ••• •«# ••• ... 172 Epigrammes de Faisan aux Petits Pois ... ••• ••• ... 148198 General Index PAGE Escalopes de VeDaison a la Polonaise • • • • • • • • • • • • ... 170 Faisan braise au Choux • • • • • • • t • ... 150 Filets de Sanglier a la Russe • • • ... 166 Gradins de Faisan a la Mauxelle ... 149 Lapin frit 4 la Reine • • • • • • ... 172 I.apin saute a la Proven9ale ... 17I Lievre de Civet au Lard • • • * • « ... 170 Mauviettes a rAspic (cold) • • • * • » • • • « • • ... 165 Mousse de Perdreaux au Jambon • • • • • • ... 164 Pains Perdreaux a la Royale • • • • • » ... 161 Petits Cremes de Faisan • • • • • • • • • • • • ... 15I Petits Pains de Mauviettes • • • • * • • • • ... 103 Pluviers Dor6s a la Marianne • • • • • • • • • ... 169 Salmi de Perdreaux a la Montglas ... • • • • • • ... 161 Sarcelle k la Moscovite • • • ... 158 Souffles de Cailles k la Marechale • • • • • • • • • ... 153 Souffles de Cailles k la Lusette • • • ... 154 Supremes de Sarcelle a 1’Orange (cold) • * • ... 157 Terrine de Faisan a la Cossart • • • • • • • • • • • • ... 148 Timbale de Gibier aux Champignons « • • • • • • • • ... 168 Zephires de Perdreaux a la Metropole * • • • • • • • • • • • ... 163 SAUCES AND AUXILIARIES. Aigre-Douce Sauce • • • • • • • • • * • • ... 181 Allemande Sauce • • • • • • ... 181 Aspic Cream • • • • • • • • • • • • ... 187 Aspic Jelly • • • • • • • • • ... 186 Aspic Mayonnaise • • • • • • • « • • • ... 187 Bearnaise Sauce • • • • • • ... 183 Bechamel Sauce • • • ... 173 Bercy Sauce • • • • • « • • « ... 188 Bokar Sauce « • • • • • • « • ... 188 Bordelaise Sauce • • • ... 188 Breteuil Sauce • « • • • • • • • ... 178 Bulgarienne Sauce ... 178 Cardinal Sauce • * • • • • • • • ... 182 Champagne Sauce • • • • « • • • « ... 180 Champignons Blanche Sauce • • • • * • • • « ... 179 Chasseur Sauce • • • • • • ... 180 Chaudfroid Blanche (white) Sauce ... • • • • • • ... 180 Chaudfroid Blonde (brown) Sauce ... ... 184 Chaudfroid (pink) Sauce • • • • • • « • « ... 185 Chaudfroid Verte (green) Sauce ... 185 ChS-teaubriant Sauce • • • • • • ... 179 Chestnut Puree • • • • • • ... 74 Colbert Sauce • • • • • • • • • ... 179 Cucumber Sauce (cold) • • • • • • ... 184 Curry Sauce f r f • ft • f f • ♦ » ... 175m General Index Demi-glace Sauce Decoration Schemes for Timbal Espagnole Sauce Farce for Cutlets Maxime ... Fumet of Duck Game Forcemeat Genoise Sauce Gibier (game) Sauce Hatelets or Skewers Herb Sauce (cold) Hollandaise Sauce Italienne Sauce Kari (curry) Sauce Lemon Mayonnaise Madere (Madeira) Sauce ... Mande Sauce Mayonnaise Mirabeau Sauce Mirepoix Mousseline Sauce Nouille Paste Perigord (truffle) Sauce Piquante (sharp) Sauce Poivrade (pepper) Sauce ... Pommes de Terre Parisienne Pommes de Terre Duchesse Pommes Pailles (Straw Potatoes Pompadour Sauce Ravigote Sauce (hot) Ravioli Farce Rice Socle for Cold Entrees Regence Sauce Remoulade Sauce Robert Sauce Salade Melba Soubise Puree (Onion) Soubise Sauce Spinach Puree Supreme Sauce Tomato Aspic Tomato Mayonnaise Tomato Sauce Trianon Sauce (cold) Truffle Sauce Veal Forcemeat Velout6 Sauce etc. Zingara Sauce LIBRARY *r PAGE ... 174 ... 13 ... 173 ... 104 ... 146 ... 156 ... 189 ... 174 ... II ... 184 ... 182 ... 179 ... 175 ... 186 ... 176 ... 178 ... 185 ... 176 ... 13 ... 176 ... 28 ... 17s ... 177 ... 178 ... 81 ... 95 ... 100 ... 177 ... 189 ... 28 ... 72 ... 182 ... 187 ... 177 ... 136 ... Ill ... 114 ... 89 ... 183 ... 187 ... 189 ... 175 ... 188 ... 175 ... 8s ... 181 ... 180Eei' Majesty Queen Alexandra, H.M, Queen Maud of Norway, H.M. Queen Victoria Eugenie of Spain have honoured the Author hy graciously accept- ing copies of this work. This work has heen compiled on popular lines, and is designed to meet the requirements of an up- to-date cuisine. The arrangement of the various branches of Cookery and Gastronomy treated is as simple as possible, so that any dish, sauce, or adjunct can be easily referred to. The book has the largest and most complete collection of up-to-date recipes for Recherche Dishes ever produced in this country. There are over 5,000 selected Recipes, Cooking Methods and Menus in this book, which embraces every essential subject of interest to the Chef, Manager and Housekeeper. Nothing relating to Practical Cookery and Table Service has been omitted. The work is profusely illustrated. Price One Guinea. - Edition de Luxe, 33P. Illustrated Booklet and Specimen Pages free from the — FOOD COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, jag, Vauxltall Bridge Road} Victoria Station, London, S.W,Popular Bool^s op Cool^cry. . . By C. HERMAN SENN. The “New Century” Cookery Book.—Enlarged Edition. Containing over 5,000 recipes of Dishes and Methods of Cooking, with over 400 illustrations. It forms one of the largest and most complete collections of cooking recipes for recherch/ dishes ever produced in this country. All recipes have been chosen to re- present the present requirements of an up-to-date cuisine. They are fully and lucidly explained, so as to make failure to an intelligent cook almost impossible. Price 21/-; post free, 21/9. Edition de Luxe, 33/-, post free. Practical Gastronomy: French Menus.—A complete Menu Compiler and Register of Dishes. The most useful book for Managers and Chefs ever published. It gives the condensed directions of over 400 dishes, and many specimen menus for all occasions. Price 5/-; post free, 5/3. Savoury Breakfast, Dinner and Supper Dishes. — A collection of over 400 useful and novel Recipes of Dishes suitable for breakfast, luncheon supper dishes, and after-dinner savouries, etc. Price 3/6; post free, 3/9. A Book of Salads; or. The Art of Salad Dressing.— By Alfred Suzanne. This little book is unquestionably the best in existence. It contains Recipes for Green Salads, Vegetable Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads, Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully treated. Price 1/6 ; post free, 1/8. Ices and How to Make them.—A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffles, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc. etc. En- larged Edition just ready. Price 2/-; post free, 2/2. The Art of Curry Making.—A reliable Manual on the treat- ment of Curries, containing a number of recipes by the late Charles Francatelli. Price 6d.; post free, 7d. {.Coniinued next page.Popular Bcoljs op Ccol^^ry—continued. Senn’s Culinary Cncyclop2edia.—A dictionary of technical terms, the names of foods, cooking auxiliaries, condiments, and beverages. Specially adapted for Chefs, Hotel and Restaurant Managers, Cookery Teachers, etc. Price 1/-; post free, 1/2. Cookery for Invalids and the Convalescent.—A collection of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for invalids and convalescents. Price 1/-; post free, 1/2. Chafing»Dish and Casserole Cookery.—A neatly got-up little book dealing with the above subjects, which are coming rapidly back to popularity. This manual is full of excellent recipes and practical advice, to suit everyone's taste and pocket. Price 1/6 ; post free, 1/8. The Popular Cookery Book.—The most up-to-date Manual on Household Cookery at a Popular Price. A book of reliable recipes for dishes intended for families of moderate means. Price 6d.; post free, 7d. How to Cook Eggs and Omelets in 250 Different Ways. The recipes in this book cover every possible method of cooking and serving eggs for table, representing many new ideas. Egg dishes, if rightly prepared, are at all times acceptable, and make a delightful change for the everyday menu. Price 1/6; by post, 1/8. licchcrch^ Luncheon and Dinner Sweets.—The book con- tains 239 especially selected recipes of hot and cold Puddings, Creams and Jellies, Parfaits and Mousses, hot and cold ; Souffles, Continental Patisserie and Giteaux, all of a recherchd character. There are numerous Half-tone Illustrations. Price 2/6; post free, 2/9. Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, Victoria Station, London, S.W. Remittances must iti every case accompany orders.UNDER THE SPECIAL PATRONAGE OF MAJESTY QUEEN ALEXANDRA. HER MOST GRACIOUS THE Universal Cookcrp and food Enrolled by special permission of the Lords of the Treasury, AND UNDBR THE PATRONAGE OF THE TTClorsbipful Company of (toobs unOcv IRoigal Cbartec of tbc IRelgn of ■Ring EOwavb ID. THE PRINCIPAL OBJECTS OF THE ASSOCIATION ARE To further the advancement of the Science of Cookery in all its branches. To Organise Exhibitions and Competitions for the promotion of the Art of Cookery and the Catering Trades of this and other Countries. To assist the Education of Cooks and Confectioners, by promoting Lectures, Competitions, and Periodical Examinations. To assist in the Apprenticeship of Youths, so as to enable them to become fully qualified in the Art of Cookery and Confectionery. To facilitate and promote friendly intercourse with Societies es- tablished on the Continent, having similar objects. ENROLMENT FEES; 2/6 FOR Licentiates. 10/6 for Members. Which includes accident insurance for ;^25o, a copy of the Association’s Official Monthly Organ, Food and Cookery and The Catering World, Season Ticket for the Exhibitions, and other privileges. 329, VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD (near Victoria Stn.), LONDON, S.W. Association. W. BURDETT-COUTTS, Esq., M.P. Ipicstbent: ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION: Licentiates—10/6. Members—21/-Is an Illustrated Magazine-Journal designed and produced to appeal to all persons engaged in Cooking and the Catering Trades. Founded and Edited by C. HERMAN SENN. THE LEADING CULINARY JOURNAL IN GREAT BRITAIN. The only Official Organ of the Universal Cookery and Food Jlssociaiion. Subscription 5s. per annum. Produced to supply its readers with information on everything pertaining to the Culinary Art and Gastronomy. It gives the benefit of the experience and knowledge of leading Chefs and Caterers. nCeaMng features are- HOTEL AND RESTAURANT NEWS. RECHERCHE COOKERY, giving Recipes of the Latest Dishes. THE MENU DEPARTMENT, showing what other establishments are doing. PARISIAN AND OTHER CONTINENTAL NOTES. ARTICLES on Marketing, Gastronomic and House- hold Matters, the Kitchen and Dining Room, etc.etc. If you are not already a subscriber we confidently ask you to become such. The subscription being only 58. a year, no Hotel or Restaurant business can afford to be without it. Sf>ecimen Copy sent free on application to the Publishers : 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W.