ARTERIES. 3^4 and Pectoral muscles, anastomosing with, the intercostal branches of the internal mammary. The acromial branches are directed outwards towards the acromion, supplying the Deltoid muscle, and anastomosing, on the surface of the acromion, with the suprascapular and posterior circumflex arteries. The descending branch passes in the interspace between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, accompanying the cephalic vein, and supplying both muscles. The long thoracic passes downwards and inwards along the lower border of the Pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, supplying the Serratus magnus, the Pectoral muscles, and mammary gland, and sending branches across the axilla to the axillary glands and Subscapulars, which anastomose with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. The thoracica alaris is a small branch, which supplies the glands and areolar tissue of the axilla. Its place is frequently supplied by branches from some of the other thoracic arteries. The subscapular, the largest branch of the axillary artery, arises opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle, and passes downwards and backwards along its lower margin to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapula, a branch of the subclavian. It distributes branches to the Subscapularis, Serratus magnus, Teres major, and Latissimus dorsi muscles, and gives off, about an inch and a-half from its origin, a large branch, the dorsalis scapulae, which curves round the inferior border of the scapula, leaving the axilla in the interspace between the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the long head of the Triceps in front. Three branches, or sets of branches, arise from the dorsalis scapulae ; the first enters the subscapular fossa, beneath the Sub- scapularis, which it supplies, anastomosing with the subscapular and suprascapular arteries ; the second, the trunk of the artery (dorsalis scapulae) turns round the axillary border of the scapula, and enters the infraspinous fossa, where it anasto- moses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; and a third, or median branch, is continued along the axillary border of the scapula, between the Teres major and minor, and, at the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the bone, anastomoses with the posterior scapular. The circumflex arteries wind round the neck of the humerus. The posterior cir- cumflex (fig. 216), the larger of the two, arises from the back part of the axillary, opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle, and, passing backwards with the circumflex veins and nerve, through the quadrangular space bounded by the Teres major and minor, the scapular head of the Triceps and the humerus, winds round the neck of that bone, and is distributed to the Deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex, suprascapular and acro- mial thoracic arteries. The anterior circumflex (figs. 216, 217), considerably smaller than the preceding, arises just below that vessel, from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes horizontally outwards, beneath the Coraco-brachialis and short head of the Biceps, lying upon the fore part of the neck of the humerus, and, on reaching the bicipital groove, gives off an ascending branch, which passes upwards along the groove, to supply the head of the bone and the shoulder-joint. The trunk of the vessel is then continued outwards beneath the Deltoid, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex, and acromial thoracic arteries. Brachial Artery. (Fig. 218.) The brachial artery commences at the lower margin of the tendon of the Teres major, and passing down the inner and anterior aspect of the arm, terminates about half an inch below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. The direction of this vessel is marked by a line drawn from the outer side of the axillary space between the folds of the axilla, to a point midway between the condyles of the humerus, which corresponds to the depression along