PHARYNGEAL REGION. 223 Dissection (fig-. 156). In order to examine the muscles of the pharynx, cut through the trachea and oesophagus just above the sternum, and draw them upwards by dividing the loose areolar tissue connecting the pharynx with the front of the vertebral column. The parts being drawn well forwards, apply the edge of the saw immediately behind the styloid processes, and saw the base of the skull through from below upwards. The pharynx and mouth should then be stuffed with tow, in order to distend its cavity and render the muscles tense and easier of dissection. The Inferior Constrictor, the most superficial and thick- est of the three constrictors, arises from the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. To the cricoid cartilage it is attached in the interval be- tween the crico-thyroid mus- cle, in front, and the articular facet for the thyroid carti- lage behind. To the thyroid cartilage, it is attached to the oblique line on the side of the great ala, the carti- laginous surface behind it, nearly as far as its posterior border, and to the inferior cornu. From these attachments, the fibres spread backwards and inwards, to be inserted into the fibrous raphe in the posterior me- dian line of the pharynx. The inferior fibres are horizontal, and continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus ; the rest ascend, increasing in obliquity, and overlap the Middle constrictor. The superior laryngeal nerve passes near the upper border, and the inferior, or recurrent laryngeal, beneath the lower border of this muscle, previous to their entering the larynx. Relations. It is covered by a dense cellular membrane which surrounds the entire pharynx. Behind, it is in relation with the vertebral column and the longus colli muscle; laterally, with the thyroid gland, the common carotid artery, and the Sterno-thyroid muscle ; by its internal surface, with the Middle constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Middle Constrictor is a flattened, fan-shaped muscle, smaller than the pre- ceding, and situated on a plane anterior to it. It arises from the whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo- hyoid ligament. The fibres diverge from their origin: the lower ones descending beneath the Inferior constrictor, the middle fibres passing transversely, and the upper fibres ascending and overlapping the Superior constrictor. The muscle is inserted into the posterior median fibrous raphe, blending in the middle line with that of the opposite side. Relations. This muscle is separated from the Superior constrictor by the glosso- pharyngeal nerve and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle; and from the Inferior con- strictor, by the superior laryngeal nerve. Behind, it lies on the vertebral column, the longus colli, and the Rectus anticus major. On each side it is in relation with the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal-plexus, and some lymphatic glands. Near 156.—Muscles of the Pharynx. External View.