THE SPINE IN GENERAL. 17 form a single bone. The gradual diminution in the size of the pieces gives this bone a triangular form, the base of the triangle joining the end of the sacrum. It presents for examination an anterior and posterior surface, two borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is slightly concave, and marked with three transverse grooves, indicating the points of junction of the different pieces. It has attached to it the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament and Levator ani muscle, and supports the lower end of the rectum. The posterior surface is convex, marked by trans- verse grooves similar to those on the anterior surface; and presents on each side a lineal row of tubercles, the rudimentary articular processes of the coccygeal vertebrae. Of these, the superior pair are very large; and are called the comua of the coccyx ; they project upwards, and articulate with the comua of the sacrum, the junction between these two bones completing the fifth sacral foramen for the transmission of the posterior branch of the fifth sacral nerve. The lateral borders are thin, and present a series of small eminences, which represent the transverse processes of the coccygeal vertebrae. Of these, the first on each side is of large size, flattened from before backwards ; and often ascends to join the lower part of the thin lateral edge of the sacrum, thus completing the fifth sacral foramen: the others diminish in size from above downwards, and are often wanting. The borders of the coccyx are narrow, and give attachment on each side to the sacro-sciatic ligaments and Coccygeus muscle. The base presents an oval surface for articulation with the sacrum. The apex is rounded, and has attached to it the tendon of the external Sphincter muscle. It is occasionally bifid, and sometimes deflected to one or other side. Development. The coccyx is developed by four centres, one for each piece. Occasionally, one of the first three pieces of this bone is developed by two centres, placed side by side. The ossific nuclei make their appearance in the following order : in the first segment, at birth ; in the second piece, at from five to ten years ; in the third, from ten to fifteen years ; in the fourth, from fifteen to twenty years. As age advances, these various segments become united in the following order: the first two pieces join ; then the third and fourth ; and, lastly, the bone is com- pleted by the union of the second and third. At a late period of life, especially in females, the coccyx often becomes joined to the end of the sacrum. Articulation. With the sacrum. Attachment of Muscles. On either side, the Coccygeus ; behind, the Gluteus maximus ; at the apex,, the Sphincter ani ; and in front, the Levator ani. Of the Spine in general. The spinal column, formed by the junction of the vertebrae, is situated in the median line, at the posterior part of the trunk : its average length is about two feet two or three inches, measured along the curved anterior surface of the column. Of this length the cervical part measures about five,, the dorsal about eleven, the lumbar about seven inches, and the sacrum and coccyx the remainder. Viewed in front, it presents two pyramids, joined together at their bases, the upper one being formed by all the vertebrae from the second cervical to the last lumbar; the lower one by the sacrum and coccyx. When examined more closely, the upper pyramid is seen to be formed of three smaller pyramids. The upper- | most of these consists of the six lower cervical vertebrae; its apex being formed 1 by the axis or second cervical; its base, by the first dorsal. The second pyramid, which is inverted, is formed by the four upper dorsal vertebrae, the base being at j the first dorsal, the smaller end at the fourth. The third pyramid commences at I the fourth dorsal, and gradually increases in size to the fifth lumbar. Viewed laterally (fig. 21), the spinal column presents several curves, which cor- j respond to the different regions of the column, and are called cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and pelvic. The cervical curve commences at the apex of the odontoid process, and terminates at the middle of the second dorsal vertebra; it is convex in front, and is the least marked of all the curves. The dorsal curve, which is concave forwards, commences at the middle of the second, and terminates at the C