ARTICULATIONS. The Crucial are two interosseous ligaments of considerable strength, situated in the interior of the joint, nearer its posterior than its anterior part. They are called crucial, because they cross each other, somewhat like the lines of the141 --^t Knee-Jomt Showing Internal letter X; and have received the names anterior and posterior, from the position of their attachment to the tibia. 'The Anterior or External Crucial Liga- ment (fig. 141), smaller than the posterior, is attached to the inner side of the de- pression in front of the spine of the tibia, being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and passing obliquely upwards, back- wards, and outwards, is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The Posterior or Internal Crucial Liga- ment is larger in size, but less oblique in its direction than the anterior. It is attached to the back part of the depres- sion behind the spine of the tibia, and to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; and passes up- wards, forwards, and inwards, to be in- serted into the outer and fore-part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the anterior crucial ligament, a fasciculus is given off from it, which blends with the posterior part of that ligament. It is in relation, in front, with the anterior crucial ligament; behind, with the liga- mentum posticum Winslowii. The Semilunar Fibro-Cartilages (fig. 142) are two crescentic lamellee, which are attached to the margins of the head of the tibia, and serve to deepen its surface for articulation with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick and convex ; the inner free 142.—Head of Tibia, with Semilunar Cartilages, etc.' border, thin and concave. Seen from above. Eight Side. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur; their lower sur- faces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each cartilage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, leav- ing the inner third unco- vered ; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Semilunar Fihro-Gartilage is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its convex border is united to the internal lateral ligament, and to the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments ; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is