GENERAL ANATOMY. xlvi mucosum in the dark races, and in some parts of the body—such as the areola of the nipple—which are of dark colour even in the fair races, except Albinoes, in whom pigment is absent. Pigment-cells are also found in the blood, according to Yirchow. In many situations the colour is produced simply by the presence of dark granules scattered about without any definite arrangement; in the choroid coat the pigment forms a regular layer of hexagonal nucleated cells filled with pigment granules ; in other parts the pigment is contained in branch- ing cells, probably the connective-tissue-corpuscles filled with pigment granules ; and in most situations, such as the nerve-cells and the epidermis, the pigment-granules form a greater or less element in the contents of the nucleated cells of the part (Fig. XXIII.). In the dark races the colour of the skin is due to the accumulation of pigment in the deeper layers of the epidermis—the rete mucosum. CARTILAGE. Cartilage is a non-vascular structure which is found in various parts of the body—in adult life chiefly in the joints, in the parietes of the thorax, and in various tubes, such as the air-passages, nostrils, and ear, which are to be kept permanently open. In the foetus at an early period the greater part of the skeleton is cartilaginous. As this cartilage is afterwards re- placed by bone, it is called temporary, in opposition to that which remains unossified during the whole of life, and which is called permanent. Cartilage is divided according to its minute anatomy into true or hyaline cartilage, fibrous, or fibro-cartilage, and yellow, or elastic, or reticular cartilage. The various cartilages in the body are also classified according to their function and position, into articular, interarticular, costal and membraniform. True cartilage, which may be taken as the type of this tissue, consists of a gristly mass, of a pearly bluish colour, enveloped in a fibrous mem- Fig. X.—Human cartilage-cells, from the cricoid cartilage. Magnified 350 times. brane, the perichondrium, from the vessels of which it imbibes its nutritive fluids, being itself destitute of blood-vessels; nor have nerves been traced into it. Its intimate structure is very simple. If a thin slice be examined under the microscope, it will be found to consist of cells of a rounded or angular shape, with nucleus and nucleolus, lying in groups, sur- rounded by a granular or almost homogeneous matrix. By boiling the cartilage for some hours, and treating it with acetic acid, the cell-mem- brane which lines the cavity in the matrix may be made visible.