SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The point where the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses are continuous is called the confluence of the sinuses, or the torcular Herophili. It presents a considerable dilatation, of very irregular form, and is the point of meeting of six sinuses, the superior longitudinal, the two lateral, the two occipital, and the straight. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus, more correctly described as the inferior longi- tudinal vein, is contained in the posterior part of the free margin of the falx cerebri. It is of a circular form, increases in size as it passes backwards, and terminates in the straight sinus. It receives several veins from the falx cerebri, and occasionally a few from the flat surface of the hemispheres. The Straight Sinus is situated at the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium. It is triangular in form, increases in size as it proceeds backwards, and runs obliquely downwards and backwards from the termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the torcular Herophili. Besides the inferior longitudinal sinus, it receives the venas Graleni, the inferior median cerebral veins, and the superior cerebellar. A few transverse bands cross its interior. The Lateral Sinuses are of large size, and are situated in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli. They commence at the torcular Herophili, and passing horizontally outwards to the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, curve downwards and inwards on each side to reach the jugular foramen, where they terminate in the internal jugular vein. Each sinus rests, in its course, upon the inner surface of the occipital, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and on the occipital again just before its ter- mination. These sinuses are frequently of unequal size, and they increase in size as they proceed from behind forwards. The horizontal portion is of a triangular form, the curved portion semi-cylindrical; their inner surface is smooth, and not crossed by the fibrous bands found in the inner sinuses. These sinuses receive blood from the superior longitudinal, the straight, and the occipital sinuses ; and in front they communicate with the superior and inferior petrosal. They com- municate with the veins of the pericranium by means of the mastoid and posterior condyloid veins, and they receive the inferior cerebral and inferior cerebellar veins, and some veins from the diploe. The Occipital are the smallest of the cranial sinuses. They are usually two in number, and situated in the attached margin of the falx cerebelli. They commence by several small veins around the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, which communicate with the posterior spinal veins, and terminate by separate openings (sometimes by a single aperture) in the torcular Herophili. The sinuses at the base of the skull are the Cavernous. Inferior petrosal. Circular. Superior petrosal. Transverse. The Cavernous Sinuses are named from their presenting a reticulated structure. They are two in number, of large size, and placed one on each side of the sella Turcica, extending from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone : they receive anteriorly the ophthalmic vein through the sphenoidal fissure, and communicate behind with the petrosal sinuses, and with each other by the circular and transverse sinuses. On the inner wall of each sinus is found the internal carotid artery, accompanied by filaments of the carotid^plexus and by the sixth nerve; and on its outer wall, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. These parts are separated from the blood flowing along the sinus by the lining membrane, which is continuous with the inner coat of the veins. The cavity of the sinus, which is larger behind than in front, is intersected by filaments of fibrous tissue and small vessels. The cavernous sinuses receive the inferior anterior cerebral veins ; they communicate with the lateral sinuses by means of