EARLY HUMAN EMBRYOS. cxi surface of the yelk-sac. One extremity of the embryo, probably the cephalic, was enlarged, but this the author believed to be accidental. A more opaque and expanded portion between the cephalic extremity and the surface of the yelk-sac appeared to him to indicate the rudimentary heart. The second embryo (Figs. LI. LII.) was in a slightly more advanced con- dition. In it, as in the former, the amnion and allantois were not found, though the adhesion of the embryo by its dorsal aspect to the inner side of the chorion renders it probable that the amnion was formed. The cephalic and caudal extremities could be easily distinguished; the vertebral groove appeared to be open in its whole extent; there was a more perfect intes- tinal groove than in the former case, and there was an irregular-shaped mass between the yelk and the cephalic extremity of the embryo, which Professor Thomson believed to be the rudiment of the heart. "No distinct trace of the omphalomesenteric vessels could be observed.* In an embryo of fifteen to eighteen days, described by Coste, the villi of the chorion were well formed, the umbilical vesicle communicated Fig. LIII.—Human embryo in the fourth week, i, Amnion removed in part of the dorsal region. 2, Umbilical vesicle. 3, Omphalomesenteric duct. 4, Inferior maxillary tuber- cle of first pharyngeal arch. 5, Superior maxillary tubercle from the same arch. 6, Second pharyngeal arch. 7, Third. 8, Fourth. 9, Eye. 10, Primitive auditory vesicle. 11, Anterior extremity. 12, Posterior extremity. 13, Umbilical cord. 14, Heart. 15, Liver. largely with the intestine, and the allantois was present, united to the inner surface of the chorion, and communicating by a large pedicle with the intestine. Both the allantois and umbilical vesicle were vascular. The amnion was not yet closed. In ova of the third and fourth week the amnion has been found closed, the rudiments of the eye, ear, maxillary projections, pharyngeal arches, cerebral vesicles, anterior and posterior extremities, liver and umbilical cord are observed (Fig. LIII.). The further development of the embryo will perhaps be better under- stood if we follow as briefly as possible the principal facts relating to the chief parts of which the body consists—viz., the spine, the cranium, the pharyngeal cavity, mouth, &c, the nervous centres, the organs of the senses, the circulatory system, the alimentary canal and its appendages, the organs * A third early embryo is figured and described in this paper, but the author is more uncertain as to its date.