629 STRUCTURE OF LIVER. 342. They are small granular bodies, about the size of a millet-seed, measuring from one-twentieth to one-tenth of an inch in diameter. If divided longitudinally, they have a foliated, and, if transversely, a polygonal, outline. The bases of the lobules are clustered round the smallest branches (sublobular) of the hepatic veins, to which each is connected by means of a small branch, which issues from the centre of the lobule (intra- lobular) . The remaining part of the sur- face of each lobule is imperfectly isolated from the surrounding lobules, by a thin stratum of areolar tissue, and by the smaller vessels and ducts. If one of the hepatic veins be laid open, the bases of the lobules may be seen through the thin wall of the vein, on which they rest, arranged in the form of a tesselated pavement, the centre of each polygonal space presenting a mi- nute aperture, the mouth of a sublobular vein. Each lobule is composed of a mass of cells; of a plexus of biliary ducts; of a venous plexus, formed by branches of the portal vein ; of a branch of an he- patic vein (intralobular) ; of minute arteries ; and, probably, of nerves and lymphatics. The hepatic cells form the chief mass of the substance of a lobule, and lie in the interspaces of the capillary plexus, being probably contained in a tubular network, which forms the origin of the biliary ducts. The smallest branches of the vena portee pass between the lobules, around which they form a plexus, the interlobular. Branches from this plexus enter the lobules, and form a network in their circumference. The radicles of the portal vein communicate with those of the hepatic vein, which occupy the centre of the lobule ; and the latter converge to form the intralobular vein, which issues from the base of the lobule, and joins the hepatic vein. The portal vein carries the blood to the liver, from which the bile is secreted; the hepatic vein carries the superfluous blood from the liver, and the bile-duct carries the bile secreted by the hepatic cells. The hepatic cells are of a more or less spheroidal form ; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided, from mutual compression. They vary in size from the t-qVo *° ^he 20*00 °f an incn in di- meter, and contain a distinct nucleus in the interior, or sometimes two. In the nucleus is a highly refracting nucleolus, with granules. The cell-contents are viscid, and contain yellow particles, the colouring matter of the bile, and oil-globules. The cells adhere together by their H. Longitudinal section of an hepatic vein. a. Por- tion of the canal, from which the vein has been removed ; b. orifices of ultimate twigs of the vein (sublobular), situated in the centre of the lobules. After Kiernan. Longitudinal section of a small portal vein and canal, after Kiernan. a. Portions of the canal from which the vein has been removed ; b. side of the portal vein in contact with the canal; c. the side of the vein which is separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and duct, with areolar tissue (Glisson's capsule) ; d. internal surface of the por- tal vein, through which are seen the outlines of the lobules and the openings (e) of the interlobular veins ; /. vaginal veins of Kiernan ; g. hepatic artery ; h. hepatic duct.