ARTICULATIONS. *74 ligaments; and forms a pouch between 133 the lesser sigmoid cavity, the internal surface of the annular ligament, and the circumference of the head of the radius. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Brachialis anticus; be- hind, the Triceps and Anconeus; exter- nally, the Supinator brevis, and the com- mon tendon of origin of the Extensor muscles; internally, the common tendon of origin of the Flexor muscles, and the Flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar nerve. The Arteries supplying the joint are de- rived from the communicating branches between the superior profunda, inferior profunda, and anastomotic branches oi the brachial, with the anterior, posterior, and interosseous recurrent branches of the ulnar, and the recurrent branch of the radial. These vessels form a complete chain of inosculation around the joint. The Nerves are derived from the ulnar, as it passes between the internal condyle and the olecranon; and a few filaments from the musculo-cutaneous. Actions, The elbow is a perfect hinge- joint ; its movements are, consequently, limited to flexion and extension, the exact apposition of the articular surfaces preventing the least lateral motion. VI. Radio-Ulnar Articulations. The articulation of the radius with the ulna is effected by ligaments, which connect together both extremities as well as the shafts of these bones. They may, consequently, be subdivided into three sets:—1. the superior radio-ulnar; 2. the middle radio-ulnar ; and, 3. the inferior radio-ulnar articulations. 1. Superior Radio-Ulnar Articulation. This articulation is a lateral ginglymus. The bones entering into its forma- tion are the inner side of the circumference of the head of the radius, which rotates within the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. These surfaces are covered with cartilage, and invested with a duplicature of synovial membrane, continuous with that which lines the elbow-joint. Its only ligament is the annular or or- bicular. The Orbicular Ligament (fig. 133) is a strong flat band of ligamentous fibres, which surrounds the head of the radius, and retains it in firm connection with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It forms about three-fourths of a fibrous ring, attached by each end to the extremities of the sigmoid cavity, and is broader at the upper part of its circumference than below, by which means the head of the radius is more securely held in its position. Its outer surface is strengthened by the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the elbow, and affords origin to part of the Supinator brevis muscle. Its inner surface is smooth, and lined by synovial membrane. Actions. The movement which takes place in this articulation is limited to rotation of the head of the radius within the orbicular ligament, and upon the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; rotation forwards being called pronation) rotation backward, supination.