TARSUS. THE FOOT. (Figs. 113, 114.) 4f &pj/^ svloutfy?hf&< tsetse, The external surface, much broader than the preceding, and often deeply- grooved, is directed outwards in the upper two-thirds of its course, backwards in the lower third, where it is continuous with the posterior border of the external malleolus. This surface is completely occupied by the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The internal surface is the interval between the interosseous ridge and the posterior border, and occupies nearly two-thirds of the circumference of the bone. Its upper three-fourths are divided into an anterior and a posterior portion by a very prominent ridge already mentioned, the oblique line of the fibula. The anterior portion is directed inwards, and is grooved for the attachment of the Tibialis posticus muscle. The posterior portion is continuous below with the rough triangular surface above the articular facet of the outer malleolus; it is directed backwards above, backwards and inwards at its middle, directly inwards below. Its upper fourth is rough, for the attachment of the Soleus muscle; its lower part presents a triangular rough surface, connected to the tibia by a strong interosseous ligament, and between these two points the entire surface is covered by the fibres of origin of the Flexor longus pollicis muscle. At about the middle of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed downwards. In order to distinguish the side to which the bone belongs, hold it with the lower extremity downwards, and the broad 112.—Plan of the Development of the groove for the Peronei tendons backwards, to- Fibula. By Three Centies. wards the holder: the triangular subcutaneous surface will then be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With two bones ; the tibia and astragalus. Development. By three centres (fig. 112); one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft about the I sixth week of foetal life, a little later than in r the tibia, and extends gradually towards the ex- M tremities. At birth both ends are cartilaginous. M Ossification commences in the lower end in the 11? second year, and in the upper one about the » fourth year. The lower epiphysis, the first in *j which ossification commences, becomes united to the shaft first, contrary to the law which i I appears to prevail with regard to the junction I of the epiphyses with the shaft: this takes I , place about the twentieth year ; the upper epi- | \ physis is joined about the twenty-fifth year.* I, i Attachment of Muscles. To the head, the Mi ^ # Biceps, Soleus, and Peroneus longus: to the jyinite^ a out „g» s^a^ -£g airfcerior surface, the Extensor longus $ digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor longus pollicis: to the internal surface, the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, and Plexor longus pollicis : to the external surface, the Peroneus longus and brevis. The skeleton of the Foot consists of three divisions : the Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Phalanges. The Tarsus. The bones of the Tarsus are seven in number: viz., the calcaneum, or os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. * It will be observed that in the fibula, as in other long hones, the epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery is directed is the one first joined to the shaft. Aw>rarsat2.1>4