ARTERIES. 334 The inferior or ascending palatine (fig. 212) passes up between the Styloglossus and Stylo-pharyngeus to the outer side of the pharynx. After supplying these muscles, the tonsil, and Eustachian tube, it divides, near the Levator palati, into two branches; one follows the course of the Tensor palati, and supplies the soft palate and the palatine glands ; the other passes to the tonsil, which it supplies, anastomosing wibh the tonsillar artery. These vessels inosculate with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The tonsillar branch (fig. 212) passes up along the side of the pharynx, and, perforating the Superior constrictor, ramifies in the substance of the tonsil and root of the tongue. The submaxillary consists of three or four large branches, which supply the submaxillary gland, some being prolonged to the neighbouring muscles, lymphatic glands, and integument. The submental, the largest of the cervical branches, is given off from the facial artery, just as that vessel quits the submaxillary gland ; it runs forwards upon the Mylo-hyoid muscle, just below the body of the jaw, and beneath the Digastric ; after supplying the muscles attached to the jaw, and anastomosing with the sub- lingual artery, it arrives at the symphysis of the chin, where it divides into a superficial and a deep branch ; the former turns round the chin, and, passing between the integument and Depressor labii inferioris, supplies both, and anasto- moses with the inferior labial. The deep branch passes beneath the latter muscle and the bone, supplies the lip, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental arteries. The muscular branches are distributed to the internal Pterygoid, Masseter, and Buccinator. The inferior labial passes beneath the Depressor anguli oris, to supply the muscles and integument of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary and submental branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. The inferior coronary is derived from the facial artery near the angle of the mouth; it passes upwards and inwards beneath the Depressor anguli oris, and, penetrating the Orbicularis muscle, runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane, inosculating with the artery of the opposite side. This artery supplies the labial glands, the mucous membrane, and muscles of the lower lip; and anastomoses with the inferior labial, and mental branch of the inferior dental artery. The superior coronary is larger, and more tortuous in its course than the pre- ceding. It follows the same course along the edge of the upper lip, lying between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. It supplies the textures of the upper lip, and gives off in its course two or three vessels which ascend to the nose. One, named the artery of the septum, ramifies on the septum of the nares as far as the point of the nose ; another supplies the ala of the nose. The lateralis nasi is derived from the facial, as that vessel is ascending along the side of the nose; it supplies the ala and dorsum of the nose, anastomosing with its fellow, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the artery of the septum, and the infra-orbital. The angular artery is the termination of the trunk of the facial; it ascends to the inner angle of the orbit, accompanied by a large vein, the angular; it distributes some branches on the cheek which anastomose with the infraorbital, and, after supplying the lachrymal sac, and Orbicularis muscle, terminates by anastomosing with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The anastomoses of the facial artery are very numerous, not only with the vessel of the opposite side, but with other vessels from different sources; viz., with the sublingual branch of the lingual, with the mental branch of the inferior dental as it emerges from the Rental foramen, with the ascending pharyngeal and posterior