OCCIPITAL BONE. 2 I of the dura mater enclosing the cord; the fore-part is narrower, being encroached upon by the condyles ; it has projecting towards it from below the odontoid pro- cess, and its margins are smooth and bevelled internally to support the medulla oblongata. On each side of the foramen magnum are the condyles, for articulation with the atlas ; they are convex, oblong, or reniform in shape, and directed down- wards and outwards; they converge in front, and encroach slightly upon the anterior segment of the foramen. On the inner border of each condyle is a rough tubercle for the attachment of the ligaments (check) which connect this bone with the odontoid process of the axis ; whilst external to them is a rough tubercular prominence, the transverse or jugular process (the representative of the trans- verse process of a vertebra (channelled in front by a deep notch, which forms part of the jugular foramen. The under surface of this process affords attach- ment to the Rectus capitis lateralis ; its upper or cerebral surface presents a deep groove which lodges part of the lateral sinus, whilst its prominent extremity is marked by a quadrilateral rough surface, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and articulating with a similar surface on the petrous portion of the temporal bone. On the outer side of each condyle, near its fore part, is a foramen, the anterior condyloid; it is directed downwards, outwards, and forwards, and trans- mits the hypoglossal nerve. This foramen is sometimes double. Behind each condyle is a fossa,* sometimes perforated at the bottom by a foramen, the posterior condyloid, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the foramen magnum is a strong quadrilateral plate of bone, the basilar process, wider behind than in front; its under surface, which is rough, presenting in the median line a tubercular ridge, the pharyngeal spine, for the attachment of the tendinous raphe and Superior constrictor of the pharynx; and, on each side of it, rough depressions for the attachment of the Recti capitis antici, major and minor. The Internal or Cerebral Surface (fig. 23) is deeply concave. The posterior or occipital part is divided by a crucial ridge into four fossse. The two superior fossa3 receive the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and present slight eminences and depressions corresponding to their convolutions. The two inferior, which receive the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, are larger than the former, and comparatively smooth ; both are marked by slight grooves for the lodgment of arteries. At the point of meeting of the four divisions of the crucial ridge is an eminence, the internal occipital protuberance. It nearly corresponds to that on the outer surface, and is perforated by one or more large vascular foramina. From this eminence, the superior division of the crucial ridge runs upward to the superior angle of the bone; it presents occasionally a deep groove for the superior longitu- dinal sinus, the margins of which give attachment to the falx cerebri. The inferior division, the internal occipital crest, runs to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, on the edge of which it becomes gradually lost; this ridge, which is bifurcated below, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli. It is usually marked by two small grooves, which commence on either side of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, join together above, and run into the depression for the Torcular Herophili. They lodge the occipital sinuses. The transverse grooves pass outwards to the lateral angles; they are deeply channelled, for the lodgment of the lateral sinuses, their prominent margins affording attach- ment to the tentorium cerebelli. f At the point of meeting of these .grooves is a depression, the 'Torcular Herophili,'% placed a little to one or the other side of * This fossa presents many variations in size. It is usually shallow; and the foramen small; occasionally wanting, on one, or both sides. Sometimes both fossa and foramen are large, but confined to one side only; more rarely, the fossa and foramen are very large on both sides. t Usually one of the transverse grooves is deeper and broader than the other; occasionally both grooves are of equal depth and breadth, or both equally indistinct. The broader of the two transverse grooves is nearly always continuous with the vertical groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, and occupies the corresponding side of the median line. \ The columns of blood coming in different directions were supposed to be pressed together at this point.