253 OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. muscle being carried upwards or downwards from the average level; its height also varies according to the degree of distension of the stomach and intestines, and the size of the liver. After a forced expiration, the right arch is on a level, in front, with the fourth costal cartilage ; at the side, with the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs : and behind, with the eighth rib; the left arch being usually from one to two ribs breadth below the level of the right one. In a forced inspiration, it descends from one to two inches ; its slope would then be represented by a line drawn from the ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. Nerves. The Diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves. Actions. The action of the Diaphragm modifies considerably the size of the chest, and the position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. During a forced inspiration, the cavity of the thorax is enlarged in the vertical direction from two to three inches, partly by the ascent of the walls of the chest, partly by the descent of the Diaphragm. The chest, consequently, encroaches upon the abdomen : the lungs are expanded, and lowered, in relation with the ribs, nearly two inches; the heart being drawn down about an inch and a half; the descent of the latter organ taking place indirectly through the medium of its connection with the lungs, as well as directly by means of the central tendon to which the peri- cardium is attached. The abdominal viscera are also pushed down (the liver, to the extent of nearly three inches), so that these organs are no longer protected by the ribs. During expiration, when the Diaphragm is passive, it is pushed up by the action of the abdominal muscles ; the cavity of the abdomen (with the organs contained in it), encroaches upon the chest, by which the lungs and heart are compressed upwards, and the vertical diameter of the thoracic cavity diminished. The Diaphragm is passive when raised or lowered, by the abdominal organs, in- dependently of respiration, in proportion as they are large or small, full or empty; hence the oppression felt in the chest after a full meal, or from flatulent distension of the stomach and intestines. " In all expulsive acts the Diaphragm is called into action, to give additional power to each expulsive effort. Thus, before sneezing, coughing, laughing, and crying; before vomiting ; previous to the expulsion of the urine and fasces, or of the foetus from the womb, a deep inspiration takes place.* MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Upper Extremity are divisible into groups, corresponding with the different regions of the limb. Anterior Thoracic Region. Biceps. Pectoralis major. Brachialis anticus. Pectoralis minor. Posterior Humeral Region. Subclavius. Triceps. Lateral Thoracic Region. Subanconeus. Serratus magnus. Anterior Brachial Region. Pronator radii teres. Acromial Flexor carpi radialis. Deltoid. jo u Anterior Scapular Region. % ^\ Palmaris longus. I Fexor carpi ulnaris. I Flexor sublimis digfitorum. Subscapulars. Posterior Scapular Region. ^ ^ r Flexor profundus digitorum. Supraspinatus. % ^ < Flexor longus pollicis. Infraspinatus. fi ^ I Pronator quadratus. Teres minor. Radial Region. Teres major. ^ Supinator longus. Anterior Humeral Region. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Coraco-brachialis. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. * For a detailed description of the general relations of the Diaphragm, and its action, refer to Pr. Sibson's ' Medical Anatomy.1