375 DESCENDING AORTA. on the anterior snrface of the interosseous membrane, to which it is connected by a thin aponeurotic arch. It is accompanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and overlapped by the contiguous margins of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis muscles, giving off in this situation muscular branches, and the nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna. At the upper border of the Pronator quadratus, a branch descends in front of that muscle, to anas- tomose in front of the carpus with branches from the anterior carpal and deep palmar arch. The continuation of the artery passes behind the Pronator quadratus (fig. 221), and, piercing the interosseous membrane, descends to the back of the wrist, where it anastomoses with the posterior interosseous and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. The anterior interosseous gives off a long, slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve, and gives offsets to its substance. This, the median artery, is sometimes much enlarged. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through the interval between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous membrane, and runs down the back part of the forearm, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to both of which it distributes branches. Descending to the back of the wrist, it anastomoses with the termination of the anterior interosseous, and with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. This artery gives off, near its origin, the interosseous recurrent branch, a large vessel, which ascends to the interval between the external condyle and olecranon, beneath the Anconeus and Supinator brevis, anastomosing with a branch from the superior profunda, and with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and anastomotica magna. The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles along the ulnar side of the forearm. The carpal branches are intended for the supply of the wrist joint. The anterior carpal is a small vessel which crosses the front of the carpus beneath the tendons of the Flexor profundus, and inosculates with a corresponding branch of the radial artery. The posterior carpal arises immediately above the pisiform bone, winding back- wards beneath the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it gives off' a branch which passes across the dorsal surface of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons, anasto- mosing with a corresponding branch of the radial artery, and forming the posterior carpal arch; it is then continued along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, forming its dorsal branch. The deep or communicating branch (fig. 220), arises at the commencement of the palmar arch, and passes deeply inwards between the Abductor minimi digiti and Flexor brevis minimi digiti, near their origins ; it anastomoses with the termina- tion of the radial artery, completing the deep palmar arch. The digital branches (fig. 219), four in number, are given off from the convexity of the superficial palmar arch. They supply the ulnar side of the little finger, and the adjoining sides of the little, ring, middle, and index-fingers ; the radial side of the index-finger and thumb being supplied from the radial artery. The digital arteries at first He superficial to the flexor tendons, but as they pass forwards with the digital nerves to the clefts between the fingers, they he between them, and are there joined by the interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch. The digital arteries on the sides of the fingers lie beneath the digital nerves; and, about the middle of the last phalanx, the two branches for each finger form an arch, from the convexity of which branches pass to supply the matrix of the nail. The Descending Aoeta. The descending aorta is divided into two portions, the thoracic, and abdominal, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk in which it is situated. The Thoracic Aorta commences at the lower border of the fourth dorsal ver- tebra, on the left side, and terminates at the.aortic opening in the Diaphragm, in