335 OCCIPITAL. palatine, and with the ophthalmic, a branch of the internal carotid ; it also inoscu- lates with the transverse facial, and with the infraorbital. Peculiarities. The facial artery not unfrequently arises by a common trunk with the lingual. This vessel also is subject to some variations in its size, and in the extent to which it supplies the face. It occasionally terminates as the submental, and nut unfrequently supplies the face only as high as the angle of the mouth or nose. The deficiency is then supplied by enlarge- ment of one of the neighbouring arteries. Surgical Anatomy. The passage of the facial artery over the body of the jaw would appear to afford a favourable position for the application of pressure in cases of haemorrhage from the lips, the result either of an accidental wound, or from an operation ; but its application is useless, except for a very short time, on account of the free communication of this vessel with its fellow, and with numerous branches from different sources. In a wound involving the lip, it is better to seize the part between the fingers, and evert it, when the bleeding vessel may be at once secured with a tenaculum. In order to prevent haemorrhage in cases of excision, or in the removal of diseased growths from the part, the lip should be compressed on each side between the finger and thumb, whilst the surgeon excises the diseased part. In order to stop haemorrhage where the lip has been divided in an operation, it is necessary in uniting the edges of the wound, to pass the sutures through the cut edges, almost as deep as its mucous surface; by these means, not only are the cut surfaces more neatly and securely adapted to each other, but the possibility of haemorrhage is prevented by including in the suture the divided artery. If the suture is, on the con- trary, passed through merely the cutaneous portion of the wound, haemorrhage occurs into the cavity of the mouth. The student should, lastly, observe the relation of the angular artery to the lachrymal sac, and it will be seen that, as the vessel passes up along the inner margin of the orbit it ascends on its nasal side. Jn operating for fistula lachryma- lis, the sac should always be opened on its outer side, in order that this vessel may be avoided. The Occipital Aktery (fig. 209) arises from the posterior part of the external carotid, opposite the facial, near the lower margin of the Digastric muscle. At its origin, it is covered by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and part of the parotid gland, the hypoglossal nerve winding around it from be- hind forwards; higher up, it passes across the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves ; it then ascends to the interval between the transverse process of the atlas, and the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and passes horizontally backwards, grooving the surface of the latter bone, being covered by the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius, Digastric, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles, and resting upon the Complexus, Superior oblique, and Rectus posticus major muscles ; it then ascends vertically upwards, piercing the cranial attachment of the Trapezius, and passes in a tortuous course over the occiput, as high as the vertex, where it divides into numerous branches. The branches given off from this vessel are, Muscular. Inferior Meningeal. Auricular. Arteria Princeps Cervicis. The muscular tranches supply the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, Sterno-mastoid, Splenius, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles. The branch distributed to the Sterno- mastoid is of large size. The auricular branch supplies the back part of the concha. The meningeal branch ascends with the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, to supply the dura mater in the posterior fossa. The arteria princeps cervicis (fig. 212) is a large branch which descends along the back part of the neck, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The former runs beneath the Splenius, giving off branches which perforate that muscle to supply the Trapezius, anastomosing with the superficial cervical artery : the latter passes beneath the Complexus, between it and the Semispinalis colli, and anastomoses with the vertebral, and deep cervical branch of the superior inter- costal. The anastomosis between these vessels serves mainly to establish the collateral circulation after ligature of the carotid or subclavian artery. The cranial branches of the occipital artery are distributed upon the occiput; they are very tortuous, and lie between the integument and Occipito-frontalis,