MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 206 lined by a delicate synovial membrane, and enclosed in a thin fibrous investment. The tendon is reflected backwards and outwards beneath, the Superior rectus to the outer part of the globe of the eye, and. is inserted into the sclerotic coat, midway between the cornea and entrance of the optic nerve, the insertion of the muscle lying between the Superior and External recti. Relations. By its upper surface, with the periosteum covering the roof of the orbit, and the fourth nerve. The tendon, where it lies on the globe of the eye, is covered by the Superior rectus. By its under surface, with the nasal nerve, and the upper border of the Internal rectus. The Inferior Oblique is a thin, narrow muscle, placed near the anterior margin of the orbit. It arises from a depression in the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, external to the lachrymal groove. Passing outwards and back- wards beneath the Inferior rectus, and between the eyeball and the External rectus, it is inserted into the outer part of the sclerotic coat between the Superior and External rectus, near the tendon of insertion of the Superior oblique. Relations. By its upper surface, with the globe of the eye, and with the Inferior rectus. By its under surface, with the periosteum covering the floor of the orbit, and with the External rectus. Its borders look forwards and backwards ; the posterior one receives a branch of the third nerve. Nerves. The Levator palpebras, Inferior oblique, and all the recti excepting the External, are supplied by the third nerve ; the Superior oblique, by the fourth; the External rectus, by the sixth. Actions. The Levator palpebrse raises the upper eyelid, and is the direct antagonist of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. The four Recti muscles are attached in such a manner to the globe of the eye, that, acting singly, they will turn it either upwards, downwards, inwards, or outwards, as expressed by their names. If any two Recti act together, they carry the globe of the eye in the diagonal of these directions, viz. upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, or downwards and outwards. The movement of circumduction, as in looking round a room, is performed by the alternate action of the four Recti. By some anatomists, these muscles have been considered the chief agents in adjust- ing the sight at different distances, by compressing the globe, and so lengthening its antero-posterior diameter. The Oblique muscles rotate, the eyeball on its antero-posterior axis, this kind of movement being required for the correct viewing of an object, when the head is moved laterally, as from shoulder to shoulder, in order that the picture may fall in all respects on the same part of the retina of each eye.* Surgical Anatomy. The position and exact point of insertion of the tendons of the Internal and External recti muscles into the globe, should be carefully examined from the front of the eyeball, as the surgeon is often required to divide one or the other muscle for the cure of strabismus. In convergent strabismus, which is the most common form of the disease, the eye is turned inwards, requiring the division of the Internal rectus. In the divergent form, which is more rare, the eye is turned outwards, the External rectus being especially impli- cated. The deformity produced in either case is to be remedied by division of one or the other muscle. The operation is thus effected: the lids are to be well separated ; the eyeball being drawn outwards, the conjunctiva should be raised by a pair of forceps, and divided immediately beneath the lower border of the tendon of the Internal rectus, a little behind its insertion into the schlerotic; the submucous areolar tissue is then divided, and into the small aperture thus made, a blunt hook is passed upwards between the muscle and the globe, and the tendon of the muscle and conjunctiva covering it, divided by a pair of blunt-pointed scissors. Or the tendon may be divided by a subconjunctival incision, one blade of the scissors being passed upwards between the tendon and the conjunctiva, and the other between the tendon and the sclerotic. The student, when dissecting these muscles, should remove on one side of the subject the conjunctiva from the front of the eye, in order to see more accurately the position of the tendons, while on the opposite side the operation may be performed. * i On the Oblique Muscles of the Eye in Man and VeHebrate Animals,1 by John Stettthees, M.D. 1 Anatomical and Physiological Observations.1