250 MUSCLES AND FASCIAL varies much in its attachment, not only in different bodies, but on opposite sides of the same body. Relations. In front with the sternum, ensiform cartilage, costal cartilages, Inter- nal intercostal muscles, and internal mammary vessels. Behind, with the pleura, pericardium, and anterior mediastinum. The Levatores Costarum (fig. 161), twelve in number on each side, are small tendinous and fleshy bundles, which arise from the extremities of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards, are inserted into the upper rough surface of the rib below them, between the tubercle and the angle. That for the first rib arises from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and that for the last from the eleventh dorsal. The Inferior levatores divide into two fasciculi, one of which is inserted as above described; the other fasciculus passes down to the second rib below its origin; thus, each of the lower ribs receives fibres from the transverse processes of two vertebras. Nerves. The muscles of this group are supplied by the intercostal nerves. Actions. The Intercostals are the chief agents in the movement of the ribs in ordinary respiration. The External intercostals raise the ribs, especially their fore part, and so increase the capacity of the chest from before backwards; at the same time they evert their lower borders, and so enlarge the thoracic cavity transversely. The Internal intercostals, at the side of the thorax, depress the ribs, and invert their lower borders, and so diminish the thoracic cavity; but at the fore part of the chest these muscles assist the External intercostals in raising the cartilages. The Levatores Costarum assist the External intercostals in raising the ribs. The Triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages; it is therefore an expiratory muscle. Muscles of inspiration and expiration. The muscles which assist the action of the Diaphragm in inspiration are the Intercostals and the Levatores costarum as above stated, the Scaleni, the Serratus posticus superior, and to a slight extent the Sub- clavius. When the need for more forcible action exists, the shoulders and the base of the scapula are fixed, and then the powerful muscles of forced inspiration come into play; the chief of these are the Serratus magnus, Latissimus dorsi, and the Pec- torales, particularly the Pectoralis minor. The ordinary action of expiration is merely passive, the resilience of the ribs and the elasticity of the lungs producing a tendency to a vacuum. This causes the ascent of the abdominal viscera covered by the Diaphragm. Forced expiratory actions are performed mainly by the flat muscles (Obliqui and Transversalis) of the abdomen, assisted also by the Rectus. Other muscles of forced expiration are the Internal Intercostals and Triangularis Sterni (as above mentioned), the Serratus posticus inferior, the Quadratus lumborum and the Sacro-lumbalis. DlAPHEAGMATIC REGION. Diaphragm. The Diaphragm (Aia0pay/ia, a partition ivall) (fig. 167) is a thin musculo-fibrous septum, placed obliquely at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the trunk, and separating the thorax from the abdomen, forming the floor of the former cavity and the roof of the latter. It is elliptical, its longest diameter being from side to side, somewhat fan-shaped, the broad elliptical portion being horizontal, the narrow part, which represents the handle of the fan, vertical, and joined at right angles to the former. It is from this circumstance that some anatomists describe it as consisting of two portions, the upper or great muscle of the Diaphragm, and the lower or lesser muscle. It arises from the whole of the internal circumference of the thorax, being attached, in front, by fleshy fibres to the ensiform cartilage ; on either side, to the inner surface of the cartilages and bony portions of the six or seven inferior ribs, interdio-itating- with the Transversalis ; and behind, to two aponeurotic arches, named the ligamentum arcuatum externum and internum, and to the lumbar vertebrae. The fibres from these sources vary in length ; those aris- ing from the ensiform appendix are very short and occasionally aponeurotic; those