URINARY ORGANS. 676 367.—Vertical Section'of Kidney, surface of the kidney, forming a layer about two lines in -thickness, where it covers the pyramids, and sends numerous prolongations inwards, towards the sinus be- tween the pyramids. The cortical substance is soft, reddish, • granular, easily lacerated, • and contains nu- merous small, red bodies scattered through it in every part, excepting towards the free surface. These are the Malpighian bodies. The cortical substance is composed of a mass of convoluted tubuli uriniferi, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerveSj connected together by a firm, transparent, granular substance, which contains small granular cells. The medullary substance consists of pale, reddish-coloured, conical masses, the pyra- -mids of Malpighi; they vary in number from eight to eighteen; their bases are directed towards the circumference of the organ; whilst their apices, which, are free from the. cortical substance, converge towards the sinus, and terminate in smooth, rounded ex- tremities, called the papillce (mammillae) of the kidney. Sometimes, two of the masses are joined, and have between them only one papilla. The kidney is thus seen to consist of a number of conical-shaped masses, each enclosed, excepting at the apex, by an invest- ment of the cortical substance : these- repre- sent the separate lobules of which the human kidney in the foetus consists, a condition which is permanent in the kidneys of many of the lower animals. As the human, kidney becomes developed, the adjacent lobules coalesce, so as to form a single gland, the surface of which, even in the adult, occasionally presents faint traces of a lobular subdivision. • The medullary substance is denser in structure than the cortical, darker in colour, and presents a striated appearance, from being composed of a number of minute converging tubes (tubuli uriniferi). If traced Jbackwards the tubuli uriniferi are found to commence at the apices of the cones by small orifices, which vary from to of an inch; as they pass up in the medullary substance, towards the periphery, they pursue a diverging course, dividing and subdividing at very acute angles, until they reach the cortical substance, where they become convoluted, anastomose freely with each oilier, and retain the same * diameter. The number of orifices on the entire surface of a single papilla is, according to Huschke, about a thousand ; from four to five hundred large, and as many smaller ones. The tubuli uriniferi arc formed of a transparent ho- mogeneous basement membrane, lined by spheroidal epithelium, which occupies about two-thirds of the diameter of the tube. The (tabes arc separated from one another, in the medullary cones, by capillary vessels, Which form oblong meshes parallel with the tubuli, and. by an intermediate paren- chymatous substance composed of cells. 368.—Minute Structure of'Kidney