359 SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL. THE AXILLA. The pericardiac tranches supply the upper part of the pericardium, the lower part receiving branches from the musculo-phrenic artery. Some sternal branches are distributed to the Triangularis sterni, and both surfaces of the sternum. The anterior intercostal arteries supply the five or six upper intercostal spaces. The branch corresponding to each space passes outwards, and soon divides into two, which run along the opposite borders of the ribs, and inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. They are at first situated between the pleura and the internal Intercostal muscles, and then between the two layers of those muscles. They supply the Intercostal and Pectoral muscles, and the mammary gland. The perforating arteries correspond to the five or six upper intercostal spaces. They arise from the internal mammary, pass forwards through the intercostal spaces, and curving outwards, supply the Pectoralis major, and the integument. Those which correspond to the first three spaces, are distributed to the mammary gland. In females, during lactation, these branches are of large size. The musculo-phrenic artery is directed obliquely downwards and outwards, behind the cartilages of the false ribs, perforating the Diaphragm at the eighth or ninth rib, and terminating, considerably reduced in *size, opposite the last inter- costal space. It gives off anterior intercostal arteries to each of the intercostal spaces across which it passes ; these diminish in size as the spaces decrease in length, and are distributed in a manner precisely similar to the anterior intercostals from the internal mammary. The musculo-phrenic also gives branches backwards to the Diaphragm, and downwards to the abdominal muscles. The superior epigastric continues in the original direction of the internal mammary, descends behind the Rectus muscle, and perforating its sheath, divides into branches which supply the Rectus, anastomosing with the epigastric artery from the external iliac. Some vessels perforate the sheath of the Rectus, and supply the muscles of the abdomen and the integument, and a small branch which passes inwards upon the side of the ensiform appendix, anastomoses in front of that cartilage with the artery of the opposite side. The Superior Intercostal (fig. 212) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery, behind the anterior scalenus on the right side, and to the inner side of the muscle on the left side. Passing backwards, it gives off the deep cervical branch, and then descends behind the pleura in front of the necks of the first two ribs, and inosculates with the first aortic intercostal. In the first inter- costal space, it gives off a branch which is distributed in a manner similar to the distribution of the aortic intercostals. The branch for the second intercostal space usually joins with one from the first aortic intercostal. Each intercostal gives off a branch to the posterior spinal muscles, and a small one, which passes through the corresponding intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The deep cervical branch (profunda cervicis) arises, in most cases, from the superior intercostal, and is analogous to the posterior branch of an aortic intercostal artery. Passing backwards, between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib, it runs up the back part of the neck, between the Com- plexus and Semispinalis colli muscles, as high as the axis, supplying these and adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with the arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital, and with branches which pass outwards from the vertebral. Surgical Anatomy op the Axilla. The Axilla is a pyramidal space, situated between the upper and lateral part of the chest, and the inner side of the arm. Boundaries. Its apex, which is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, corresponds to the interval between the two Scaleni on the first rib. The base, directed downwards, is formed by the integument, and a thick layer of fascia, extending between the lower border of the Pectoralis major in front, and the lower border of the Latissimus dorsi behind; it is broad internally, at the chest, but