167 SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. by the junction of the two oval articular surfaces of the ossa pubis. The articular surface has been described above under the name of symphysis, and the same name is given to the joint. The ligaments of this articulation are the Anterior Pubic. Posterior Pubic. Superior Pubic. Sub-Pubic. Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage. The Anterior Pubic Ligament consists of several superimposed layers, which pass across the front of the articulation. The superficial fibres pass obliquely from one bone to the other, decussating and forming an interlacement with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle. The deep fibres pass transversely across the symphysis, and are bleuded with the interarticular fibro- cartilage. The Posterior Pubic Ligament consists of a few thin, scattered fibres, which unite the two pubic bones posteriorly. The Superior Pubic Ligament is a band of fibres, which connects together the two pubic bones superiorly. The Sub-Pubic TAgament is a thick, triangular arch of ligamentous fibres, connecting together the two pubic bones below, and forming the upper boundary of the pubic arch. Above, it is blended with the interarticular fibro-cartilage ; laterally, with the rami of the pubes. Its fibres are of a yellowish colour, closely connected, and have an arched direction. 129.—Vertical Section of the Symphysis Pubis. Made near its Posterior Surface. The Interarticular Fibro-Oartilage consists of two oval-shaped plates, one covering the surface of each symphysis pubis. They vary in thickness in different subjects, and project somewhat beyond the level of the bones, espe- cially behind. The outer surface of each plate is firmly connected to the bone by a series of nipple-like processes, which accurately fit within corresponding depressions on the osseous surface. Their opposed surfaces are connected m the greater part of their extent, by an intermediate elastic fibrous tissue; and by their circumference to the various ligaments surrounding the joint. An interspace is left between the plates at the upper and back part of the articulation, where the fibrous tissue is deficient, and the surface of the fibro-cartilage is lined by epithelium. This space is found at all periods of life, both in the male and female; but it is larger in the latter, especially during pregnancy, and after parturition. It is most frequently limited to the upper and back part of the joint; but it occasionally reaches to the front, and may extend the entire length of the