INNOMINATE; COMMON CAROTID. sternal end of the clavicle ; less frequently it divides below it. In the former class of cases, its length may exceed two inches; and, in the latter, be reduced^to an inch or less. These are points of considerable interest for the surgeon to remember in connection with the opera- tion of tying this vessel. Branches. The arteria innominata occasionally supplies a thyroid branch (middle thyroid artery), which ascends along the front of the trachea to the thyroid gland ; and sometimes, a thymic or bronchial branch. The left carotid is frequently joined with the innominate artery at its origin. Sometimes, there is no innominate artery, the right subclavian arising directly from the arch of the aorta. Position. When the aorta arches over to the right side, the innominate is directed to the left side of the neck instead of the right. Collateral circulation. Allan Burns demonstrated, on the dead subject, the possibility of the establishment of the collateral circulation after ligature of the innominate artery, by tying and dividing that artery, after which, he says, "Even coarse injection impelled into the aorta, passed freely by the anastomosing branches into the arteries of the right arm, filling them and all the vessels of the head completely." (Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 62.) The branches by which this circulationwould.be carried on are very numerous; thus, all the communications across the middle line between the branches of the carotid arteries of opposite sides would be available for the supply of blood to the right side of the head and neck; while the anastomosis between the superior intercostal of the subclavitin and the first aortic intercostal (see infra on the collateral circulation after obliteration of the thoracic aorta), would bring the blood, by a free and direct course, into the right subclavian: the numerous connections, also, between the lower intercostal arteries, and the branches of the axillary and internal mammary arteries would, doubtless, assist in the supply of blood to the right arm, while the epigastric, from the external iliac, would by means of its anasto- mosis with the internal mammary, compensate for any deficiency in the vascularity of the wall of the chest. Surgical Anatomy. Although the operation of tying the innominate artery has been per- formed by several surgeons, for aneurism of the right subclavian extending inwards as far as the Scalenus, in only one instance has it been attended with success.* Mott's patient, how- ever, on whom the operation was first performed, lived nearly four weeks, and Graefe's more than two months. The main obstacles to the operation are, as the student will perceive from his dissection of this vessel, the deep situation of the artery behind and beneath the sternum, and the number of important structures which surround it in every part. In order to apply a ligature to this vessel, the patient is to be placed upon his back, with the shoulders raised, and the head bent a little backwards, so as to draw out the artery from behind the sternum into the neck. An incision two inches long is then made along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the sternal end of the clavicle. From this point, a second incision is carried about the same length along the upper border of the clavicle. The skin is then dissected back, and the Platysma divided on a director: the sternal end of the Sterno-mastoid is now brought into view, and a director being passed beneath it, and close to its under surface, so as to avoid any small vessels, the muscle is to be divided transversely throughout the greater part of its attach- ment. By pressing aside any loose cellular tissue or vessels that may now appear, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles will be exposed, and must be divided, a director being previously passed beneath them. The inferior thyroid veins now come into view, and must be carefully drawn either upwards or downwards, by means of a blunt hook. On no account should these vessels be divided, as it would add much to the difficulty of the opera- tion, and endanger its ultimate success. After tearing through a strong tibro-cellular lamina, the right carotid is brought into view, and being traced downwards, the arteria innominata is arrived at. The left vena innominata should now be depressed, the right vena innominata, the internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve drawn to the right side; and a curved aneurism needle may then be passed around the vessel, close to its surface, and in a direction from below upwards and inwards; care being taken to avoid the right pleural sac, the trachea, and cardiac nerves. The ligature should be applied to the artery as high as possible, in order to allow room between it and the aorta for the formation of a coagulum. The importance of avoiding the thyroid plexus of veins during the primary steps of the opera- tion, and the pleural sac whilst including the vessel in the ligature, should be most carefully borne in mind, since secondary hemorrhage or pleurisy have been the cause of death in all the cases hitherto operated on. Common Carotid Arteries. The common carotid arteries, although occupying a nearly similar position in the neck, differ in position, and, consequently, in their relations at their origin. The right carotid arises from the arteria innominata, behind the right sterno- * The operation was performed by Dr. Smyth of New Orleans: see the New Sydenham Society's 1 Biennial Ketrospect,' for 1865-6, p. 346.