ARTERIES. 392 artery was entirely obliterated. The lateral sacral artery was as large as a crow's quill, and had a very free anastomosis with the artery of the opposite side, and with the middle sacral artery. The sciatic artery was entirely obliterated as far as its point of connection with the aneurismal tumour; but, on the distal side of the sac, it was continued down along the back of the thigh nearly as large in size as the femoral, being pervious about an inch below the sac by receiving an anastomosing vessel from the profunda.* In addition to the above, the circulation in the parts supplied by the internal iliac would be carried on by the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries; of the opposite vesical arteries; of the haemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac, with those from the inferior mesenteric; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and internal circumflex ; by the anastomoses of the circumflex and per- forating branches of the femoral, with the sciatic; of the gluteal, with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries; of the ilio-lumbar, with the last lumbar; of the lateral sacral, with the middle sacral; and by the anastomoses of the circumflex iliac, with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal. Branches of the Internal Iliac. From the Anterior Trunk. From the Posterior Trunk. Gluteal. Ilio-lumbar. Lateral sacral. The superior vesical is that part of the foetal hypogastric artery which remains pervious after birth. It extends to the side of the bladder, distributing numerous branches to the body and fundus of the organ. From one of these a slender vessel is derived, which accompanies the vas deferens in its course to the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. This is the artery of the vas deferens. Other branches supply the ureter. The middle vesical, usually a branch of the superior, is distributed to the base of the bladder, and under surface of the vesiculae seminales. The inferior vesical arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, in common with the middle haemorrhoidal, and is distributed to the base of the bladder, the prostate gland, and vesiculae seminales. The branches distributed to the prostate communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The middle haemorrhoidal artery usually arises together with the preceding vessel. It supplies the rectum, anastomosing with the other haemorrhoidal arteries. The uterine artery passes downwards from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac to the neck of the uterus. Ascending, in a tortuous course, on the side of this viscus, between the layers of the broad ligament, it distributes branches to its substance, anastomosing, near its termination, with a branch from the ovarian artery. Branches from this vessel are also distributed to the bladder and ureter. The vaginal artery is analogous to the inferior vesical in the male; it descends upon the vagina, supplying its mucous membrane, and sending branches to the neck of the bladder and contiguous part of the rectum. The Obturator Artery usually arises from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, frequently from the posterior. It passes forwards below the brim of the pelvis, to the canal in the upper border of the obturator foramen, and escaping from the pelvic cavity through this aperture, divides into an internal and an external branch. In the pelvic cavity this vessel lies upon the pelvic fascia, beneath the peritoneum, and a little below the obturator nerve ; and, whilst passing through the obturator foramen, is contained in an oblique canal, formed by the horizontal branch of the pubes, above; and the arched border of the obturator membrane, below. * Medico-Chirurgical Trans., vol. xvi. Superior vesical. Middle vesical. Inferior vesical. Middle haemorrhoidal. Obturator. Internal pudic. Sciatic. _ . _ f Uterine. In female. Wr • i J l Vaginal.