prismatic in form, slightly curved Appears at 4 ^yS-\^^\-Joiits Shaft at 20t!>'y?- RADIUS. IOI 92. articular fibro-cartilage ; and behind, by a shallow groove for the passage of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. Structure. Similar to that of the other long bones. Development. By three centres : one for the shaft, one for the inferior extremity, and one for the olecranon (fig. 92). Ossification commences near the middle of the shaft about the fifth week, and soon extends through the greater part of the bone. At birth the ends are cartilaginous. About the fourth year, a separate osseous nucleus appears in the middle of the head, which soon extends into the styloid process. About the tenth year, ossific matter appears in the olecranon near its extremity, the chief part of this process being formed from an extension of the shaft of the bone into it. At about the sixteenth year, the upper epiphysis becomes joined, and at about the twentieth year the lower one. Articulations. With the humerus and radius. Attachment of Muscles. To the olecranon: the Triceps, Anconeus, and -Plan of the Development of the Ulna. one nead of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. By Three Centres. To the coronoid process: the Bra- OUeranon chialis anticus, Pronator radii teres, Appear* at H*g^ffi»*!^$k&«* *6» <f- Mexor subhmis digitorum, and Flexor profundus digitorum, occasionally, also the Plexor longus pollicis. To the shaft : the Plexor profundus digi- torum, Pronator quadratus, Flexor carpi ulnaris, Extensor carpi ulnaris, Anconeus, Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, Extensor se- cundi internodii pollicis, and Extensor indicis. The Radius. The Radius is situated on the outer side of the forearm, lying parallel with the ulna, which exceeds it in length and size. Its upper end is small, and forms only a small part of the elbowjoint 5 but its lower end is large, and forms the chief part of the wrist. It is one of the long bones, longitudinally, and like other long bones has a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity presents a head, neck, and tuberosity. The head is of a cylindrical form, depressed on its upper surface into a shallow cup, which articulates with the radial or lesser head of the humerus in flexion of the joint. Around the circumference of the head is a smooth articular surface, coated with cartilage in the recent state, broad internally where it rotates within the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; narrow in the rest of its circumference, to play in the orbicular liga- ment. The head is supported on a round, smooth, and constricted portion of bone, called the neck, which presents, behind, a slight ridge, for the attachment of part of the Supinator brevis. Beneath the neck, at the inner and front aspect of the bone, is a rough eminence, the tuberosity. Its surface is divided into two parts by a vertical line—a posterior rough portion, for the insertion of the tendon of the Biceps muscle; and an anterior smooth portion, on which a bursa is interposed between the tendon and the bone. The Shaft of the bone is prismoid in form, narrower above than below, and slightly curved, so as to be convex outwards. It presents three surfaces, separated by three borders. The anterior border extends from the lower part of the tuberosity above, to the