The Thorax. THE Thorax is a conical framework, formed partly of bones, and partly of the soft tissues by which, they are connected together. It is supported and its back part is formed by the middle, or dorsal, region of the spine. It is narrow above, broad below, flattened before and behind, and somewhat cordiform on a transverse section. Boundaries. The thorax is bounded in front by the sternum, the six upper costal cartilages, the ribs, and intercostal muscles ; at the sides, by the ribs and intercostal muscles ; and behind, by the same structures and the dorsal portion of the vertebral column. The superior opening of the thorax is bounded on each side by the first rib ; in front, by the upper border of the sternum; and behind, by the first dorsal vertebra. It is broader from side to side than from before backwards; and its direction is backwards and upwards. The lower opening, or base, is bounded in front by the ensiform cartilage ; behind, by the last dorsal vertebra ; and on each side by the last rib, the Diaphragm filling in the intervening space. Its direction is obliquely downwards and back- wards ; so that the cavity of the thorax is much deeper on the posterior than on the anterior wall. It is wider transversely than from before backwards. Its outer surface is convex ; but it is more flattened at the centre than at the sides. Its floor is higher on the right than on the left side, corresponding in the dead body to the upper border of the fifth costal cartilage on the right side ; and to the corresponding part of the sixth cartilage on the left side. The parts which pass through the upper opening of the thorax are, from before backwards, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the Longus colli muscles of each side ; on the sides, the arteria innominata, the left carotid and left sub- clavian arteries, the internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries, the right and left venae innominatae, and the inferior thyroid veins, the pneumogastric, sympathetic, phrenic, and cardiac nerves, the anterior branch of the first dorsal nerve, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the left side. The apex of each lung, covered by the pleura, also projects through this aperture, a little above the margin of the first rib. The viscera contained in the thorax are, the heart, enclosed in its membranous bag, the pericardium; and the lungs, invested by the pleurae. The Pericardium. The pericardium is a conical membranous sac, in which the heart and the commencement of the great vessels are contained. It is placed behind the sternum, and the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs of the left side, in the interval between the pleurae. Its apex is directed upwards, and surrounds the great vessels about two inches above their origin from the base of the heart. Its base is attached to the central tendon of the Diaphragm, extending a little farther to the left than the right side. In front, it is separated from the sternum by the remains of the thymus gland above, and a little loose areolar tissue below; and is covered by the margins of the lungs, especially the left. Behind, it rests upon the bronchi, the oesophagus, and the descending aorta. Laterally, it is covered by the pleurae; the phrenic vessels and nerve descending between the two membranes on either side.