28o SURGICAL ANATOMY. inserted into the side of the base of the 179—The Palmar Interossei of Left Hand, first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the common Extensor tendon of the same finger. The first arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is in- serted into the same side of the index finger. The second arises from the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the ring- finger. The third arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the little finger. From this account it may be seen, that each finger is provided with two Interossei muscles, with the excep- tion of the little finger, in which the Abductor muscle takes the place of one of the pair. Nerves. The two outer Lumbricales are supplied by the median nerve ; the rest of the muscles of this group, by the ulnar. Actions. The Dorsal interossei muscles abduct the fingers from an imaginary line drawn longitudinally through the centre of the middle finger; and the Palmar in- terossei adduct the fingers towards that line. They usually assist the Extensor muscles; but when the fingers are slightly bent, they assist in flexing them.* SURGICAL ANATOMY. The Student, having completed the dissection of the muscles of the upper extremity, should consider the effects likely to be produced by the action of the various muscles in fracture of the bones. In considering the actions of the various muscles upon fractures of the upper extremity, I have selected the most common forms of injury, both for illustration and description. Fracture of the clavicle is an exceedingly common accident, and is usually caused by indi- rect violence, as a fall upon the shoulder; it occasionally, however, occurs from direct force. Its most usual situation is just external to the centre of the bone, but it may occur at the sternal or acromial end. Fracture of the middle of the clavicle (fig. 180) is always attended with considerable dis- placement, the outer fragment being drawn downwards, forwards, and inwards; the inner fragment slightly upwards. The outer fragment is drawn down by the weight of the arm, and the action of the Deltoid, and forwards and inwards by the Pectoralis minor and Sub- clavius muscles: the inner fragment is slighriy raised by the Sterno-cleido-mastoid, but only to a very limited extent, as the attachment of the costo-clavicular ligament and Pectoralis major below and in front would prevent any very great displacement upwards. The causes of displacement having been ascertained, it is easy to apply the appropriate treatment. The outer fragment is to be drawn outwards, and together with the scapula, raised upwards to a level with the inner fragment, and retained in that position. In fracture of the acromial end of the clavicle, between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, * M. Duchenne gives a different account of the mechanism of the extension of the fingers and of the action of the interossei muscles from that usually accepted. According to him the extensor communis digitorum acts almost entirely on the first phalanges, extension of the second and third phalanges being effected by the interossei muscles, which also act to a certain extent as flexors of the first phalanges. This action of the interossei is additional to their action in abduction and adduction (' Physiologie des Mouvements,' pp. 261-298). M. Duchenness view of the action of these muscles certainly derives support from the phenomena observed in lead-palsy and from the results of galvanising the common extensor and the interossei, as Dr. W. Ogle has been kind enough to point out to me. Thus also in a case related by Mr. Hutchinson, in which the ulnar nerve had been divided below the part from which the extensor communis was supplied, (and therefore the interossei were paralysed while the extensor acted,) ' the first phalanges were bent backwards on the metacarpal bones ' (extended) ' while the fingers were curved into the palm ' (second and third phalanges flexed). London Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 307.