lxxiv GENERAL ANATOMY. spinal axis, and the sympathetic or ganglionic nerves, which proceed from the ganglia of the sympathetic. The Cerebrospinal nerves consist of numerous nerve-fibres, collected together and enclosed in a membranous sheath. A small bundle of primitive fibres, enclosed in a tubular sheath, is called a funiculus : if the nerve is of small size, it may consist only of a single funiculus, but if large, the funiculi are collected together into larger bundles or fasciculi; and are bound together in a common membranous investment, termed the sheath. In structure, the common sheath investing the whole nerve, as well as the septa given off from the sheath, and which separate the fasciculi, consist of areolar tissue, composed of white and yellow elastic fibres, the latter existing in greatest abundance. The tubular sheath of the funiculi, or neurilemma, consists of a fine, smooth, transparent mem- brane, which may be easily separated, in the form of a tube, from the fibres it encloses; in structure, it is, for the most part, a simple and homogeneous transparent film, occasionally composed of numerous minute recticular fibres. The cerebro-spinal nerves consist almost exclusively of the tubular nerve-fibres, the gelatinous fibres existing in very small proportion. The blood-vessels supplying a nerve terminate in a minute capillary plexus, the vessels composing which run, for the most part, parallel with the funiculi; they are connected together by short transverse vessels, forming narrow oblong meshes, similar to the capillary system of muscle. The nerve-fibres, as far as is at present known, do not coalesce, but pursue an uninterrupted course from the centre to the periphery. In separating a nerve, however, into its component funiculi, it may be seen that they do not pursue a perfectly insulated course, but occasionally join at a very acute angle with other funiculi proceeding in the same direc- tion; from which again, branches are given off, to join again in like manner with other funiculi. It must be remembered, however, that in these communications the nerve-fibres do not coalesce, but merely pass into the sheath of the adjacent nerve, become intermixed with its nerve- fibres, and again pass on to become blended with the nerve-fibres in some adjoining fasciculus. Nerves, in their course, subdivide into branches, and these frequently communicate with branches of a neighbouring nerve. In the subdivision of a nerve, the filaments of which it is composed are continued from the trunk into the branches, and at their junction with the branches of neighbouring nerves, the filaments pass to become intermixed with those of the other nerve in their further progress ; in no instance, however, have the separate nerve-fibres been shown to inosculate. The communications which take place between two or more nerves, form what is called a plexus. Sometimes a plexus is formed by the primary branches of the trunks of the nerves, as the cervical, brachial, lumbar and sacral plexuses, and occasionally by the terminal fasciculi, as in the plexuses formed at the periphery of the body. In the formation of a plexus, the component nerves divide, then join, and again subdivide in such a complex manner that the individual fasciculi become interlaced I most intricately; so that each branch leaving a plexus may contain I filaments from each of the primary nervous trunks which form it. In the I