254 MUSCLES AKD FASCIAE. Posterior Brachial Region. [3| t f Extensor communis digitorum. t§ q J Extensor minimi digiti. J Extensor carpi ulnaris. L Anconeus. "Supinator brevis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis (opponens), Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. P H- [^Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. I Extensor secundiinternodii pollicis. LExtensor indicis. Ulnar Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi (opponens). Palmar Region. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. digiti Muscles of the Hand. Radial Region. Abductor pollicis. Dissection of Pectoral Region and Axilla (fig. 168). The arm being drawn away from the side nearly at right angles with the trunk, and rotated outwards, make a vertical incision through the integument in the median line of the chest, from the upper to the lower part of the sternum ; a second incision along the lower border of the Pectoral muscle, from the ensiform cartilage to the other side of the axilla; a third, from the sternum along the clavicle, as far as its centre ; and a fourth, from the middle of the clavicle obliquely downwards, along the interspace between the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, as low as the fold of the arm-pit. The flap of integument is then to be dissected off in the direction indicated in the figure, but not entirely removed, as it should be replaced on completing the dissection. If a transverse incision is now made from the lower end of the sternum to the side of the chest, as far as the posterior fold of the arm-pit, and the integument reflected outwards, the axillary space will be more completely exposed. Fascle op the Thoeax. The superficial fascia of the thoracic region is a loose cellulo-fibrous layer, continuous with the superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and of the abdomen below ; opposite the mamma, it subdivides into two layers, one of which passes in front, the other be- hind that gland ; and from both of these layers numerous septa pass into its substance, supporting its various lobes : from the anterior layer, fibrous processes pass for- ward to the integument and nipple, enclosing in their areolae masses of fat. These processes were called by Sir A. Cooper the ligamenta suspensoria, from the support they afford to the gland in this situation. On removing the superficial fascia, the deep fascia of the thoracic region is exposed: it is a thin aponeurotic lamina, covering the surface of the great Pectoral muscle, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi: it is attached, in the mid- dle line, to the front of the sternum ; and, above, to the clavicle : it is very thin over the upper part of the muscle, somewhat thicker in the interval between the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and divides at the margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other 68.—Dissection of Upper Extremity. ADis&eetion of SHOULDER & ARM 2. BEND tf/" ELBOW FORE-ARM PALM of HAND