CONTENTS. INTRODUCTION. General Anatomv. The Blood . The Lymph and Chyle . Cellular and Fibrous Tissue Adipose Tissue Pigment Cartilage Fibro-cartilage Yellow or Reticular Cartilage Bone Development of Bone . Muscular Tissue . Unstriped Muscle . Nervous Tissue The Brain . The Spinal Cord . The Ganglia . The Nerves . The Sympathetic Nerve . Terminations of Nerves The Vascular System The Arteries . The Capillaries The Veins . The Lymphatics The Lymphatic Glands . The Skin and its Appendages The Nails . The Hairs . The Sebaceous Glands . The Sudoriferous Glands The Epithelium . Serous, Mucous and Synovial Mem branes .... Secreting Glands . Development of the Body Fecundation of the Ovum Formation of Germinal Area and Chorda Dorsalis . Division of Blastodermic Mem brane .... PAGE xxxvii xli xlii xlv xlv xlvi xlviii xlix 1 Iv lx Ixii Ixiv Ixviii lxx lxxiii Ixxiii lxxv lxxv lxxxi Ixxxi lxxxiv lxxxv lxxxvii lxxxviii lxxxix xciii xciv xcv xcv xcvii xcix c cii cii Parts formed from each layer of the Blastodermic Mem- brane The Amnion .... The Allantois The Umbilical Vesicle . The Chorion .... The Decidua .... The Placenta The Umbilical Cord The Earliest Condition of the Embryo ..... Development of the Various Parts The Spine .... The Cranium and Face . The Palate . . The Brain .... The Spinal Marrow and Nerves The Eye .... The Ear .... The Nose .... The Skin, Glands, and Soft Parts .... The Heart and Great Vessels The Alimentary Canal and its Appendages The Respiratory Organs The Genito-urinary Organs . The Wolffian Body The Internal Genital Organs. Indifferent type . Female Organs Male Organs . The External Genital Organs. Indifferent type. Female Organs Male Organs. Chronological Table of the Develop- ment of the Foetus . CIV cvi cvi cvi cviii cviii cix cx cx cxi cxii cxii cxiv cxiv cxvi cxvi cxvii cxviii cxviii cxix cxxiii cxxiv cxxv cxxv cxxv cxxvi cxxvi cxxvii cxxvii cxxvii Osteology. The Skeleton .... Number of the Bones . Form of Bones .... The Spine. General Characters of a Vertebra . Characters of the Cervical Vertebrae Atlas Axis Vertebra Prominens Characters of the Dorsal Vertebrae Peculiar Dorsal Vertebras ... 7 Characters of the Lumbar Vertebra . 9 Structure of the Vertebras ... 9 Development of the Vertebra . . 10 Atlas . . .11 Axis . . .11 7th Cervical . . 11 Lumbar Vertebra . 11 Progress of Ossification in the Spine . 11 Sacrum 12 Coccyx .16 Of the Spine in general . . .17