43 NASAL BONE. A deficiency in the ossification of the fiat bones would appear in some cases to be symmetrical on the two sides of the skull; for it is not uncommon to find these super- numerary bones corresponding in form, size, and situation on each side. Thus, in several instances, I have seen a pair of large Wormian bones symmetrically placed in the lambdoid suture; in another specimen, a pair in the coronal suture, with a supernumerary bone in the spheno-parietal suture of both sides. The size of these supernumerary pieces varies, they being in some cases not larger than a pin's head, and confined to the outer table j in other cases so large, that one pair of these bones may form the whole of the occipital bone above the superior curved lines, as described by Beclard and Ward. Their number is generally limited to two or three ; but more than a hundred have been found in the skull of an adult hydrocephalic skeleton. In their development, structure, and mode of articulation, they resemble the other cranial bones. Congenital Fissures and Gaps. Dr. Humphry has called attention to the not unfrequent existence of congenital fissures in the cranial bones, the result of incomplete ossification. These fissures have been noticed in the frontal, parietal, and squamous portion of the temporal bones; they extend from the margin towards the middle of the bone ; and are of great interest in a medico-legal point of view, as they are liable to be mistaken for fractures. An arrest of the ossifying process may also give rise to the deficiencies or gaps occasionally found in the cranial bones. Such deficiencies are said to occur most frequently when ossification is imperfect, and to be situated near the natural apertures for vessels. Dr. Humphry describes such deficiencies to exist in a calvarium, in the Cambridge Museum, where a gap sufficiently large to admit the end of the finger is seen on either side of the sagittal suture, in the place of the parietal foramen. There is a specimen precisely similar to this in the Museum of St. George's Hospital; and another, in which a small circular gap exists in the parietal bone of a young child, just above the parietal eminence. Similar deficiencies are not unfrequently met with in hydrocephalic skulls; being most frequent, according to Dr. Humphry, in the frontal bones; and, in the parietal bones, on either side of the sagittal suture. Bones op the Face. The Facial Bones are fourteen in number, viz., the Two Nasal, Two Palate, Two superior Maxillary, Two Inferior Turbinated, Two Lachrymal, Vomer, Two Malar, Inferior Maxillary. Nasal Bones. 43.—Eight Nasal Bone. with JTronZral £. 44- The Nasal are two small oblong bones, varying in size and form in different individuals ; they are placed side by side at the middle and upper part of the face, forming, by their junction, ' the bridge,' of the nose. Each bone presents for examination two surfaces, and four bor- ders. The outer surface is concave from above downwards, convex from side to side ; it is covered by the Py- ramidalis and Com- pressor nasi muscles, marked by numerous small arterial furrows, and perforated about Outer Surface, its centre by a foramen, sometimes double, for the transmission of a small vein. Sometimes this foramen is absent on one or both sides, and occasionally the foramen ccecum opens on this surface. The inner sur- face is concave from side to side, convex from above downwards ; in which direction it is traversed by a longitudinal groove (sometimes a canal), for the passage of a -Right Nasal Bone. ^tefe^ with Fro 7ital Sfjvine.. crest with, 7 F&rpericljlvidaT 'jplatcefKtJirrwid', groove for nasal nerve Jnner Surface