X PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. containing the arteries more especially involved in surgical operations. This part of the work is illustrated by twenty-eight engravings. The Veins are described as in ordinary anatomical works; and illustrated by a series of engravings, showing those in each region. The veins of the spine are described and illustrated from the well-known work of Breschet. The Lymphatics are described, and figured in a series of illustrations copied from the elaborate work of Mascagni. The Nervous System and Organs of Sense. A concise and accurate descrip- tion of this important part of anatomy has been given, illustrated by sixty-six engravings, showing the spinal cord and its membranes; the anatomy of the brain, in a series of sectional views ; the origin, course, and distribution of the cranial, spinal, and sympathetic nerves ; and the anatomy of the organs of sense. The Viscera. A detailed description of this essential part of anatomy has been given, illustrated by fifty-five large, accurately-lettered engravings. Regional Anatomy. The anatomy of the perinseum, of the ischio-rectal region, and of femoral and inguinal hernia?, is described at the end of the work; the region of the neck, the axilla, the bend of the elbow, Scarpa's triangle, and the popliteal space, in the section on the arteries; the laryngo- tracheal region, with the anatomy of the trachea and larynx. The regions are illustrated by many engravings. Microscopical Anatomy. A brief account of the microscopical anatomy of some of the tissues, and of the various organs, has also been introduced. The Author gratefully acknowledges the great services he has derived in the execution of this work, from the assistance of his friend, Dr. H. V. Carter, late Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George's Hospital. All the drawings from which the engravings were made, were executed by him. In the majo- rity of cases, they have been copied from, or corrected by, recent dissections made jointly by the Author and Dr. Carter. The Author has also to thank his friend, Mr. T. Holmes, for the able assistance afforded him in correcting the proof-sheets in their passage through the press. The engravings have been executed by Messrs. Butterworth and Heath; and the Author cannot omit thanking these gentlemen for the great care and fidelity displayed in their execution. Wilton Street, Belgraye Square : August 1858.