MUSCLES AND FASCLZE. 260 The Subscapulars (fig. 170) is a large triangular muscle, which fills up the sub- scapular fossa, arising from its internal two-thirds, with the exception of a narrow margin along the posterior border, and the inner side of the superior and inferior angles, which afford attachment to the Serratus magnus. Some fibres arise from tendinous laminas, which intersect the muscle, and are attached to ridges on the bone; and others from an aponeurosis, which separates the muscle from the Teres major and the long head of the Triceps. The fibres pass outwards, and, gradually converging, terminate in a tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Those fibres which arise from the axillary border of the scapula, are inserted into the neck of the humerus to the extent of an inch below the tube- rosity. The tendon of the muscle is in close contact with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and glides over a large bursa, which separates it from the base of the coracoid process. This bursa communicates with the cavity of the joint by an aperture in the capsular ligament. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Serratus magnus, Coraco-brachialis, and Biceps, and the axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, with the scapula, the subscapular vessels and nerves, and the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Its hirer border is contiguous with the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi. Nerves. It is supplied by the subscapular nerves. Actions. The Subscapularis rotates the head of the humerus inwards; when the arm is raised, it draws the humerus downwards. It is a powerful defence to the front of the shoulder-joint, preventing displacement of the head of the bone forwards. Posterior Scapular Region. (Fig. 171.) Supraspinatus. Teres Minor. Infraspinatus. Teres Major. Dissection. To expose these muscles, and to examine their mode of insertion into the humerus, detach the Deltoid and Trapezius from their attachment to the spine of the scapula and acromion process. Remove the clavicle by dividing the ligaments connecting it with the coracoid process, and separate it at its articulation with its scapula : divide the acromion process near its root with a saw. The fragments being removed, the tendons of the posterior Scapular muscles will be fully exposed, and can be examined. A block should be placed beneath the shoulder-joint, so as to make the muscles tense. The supraspinous aponeurosis is a thick and dense membranous layer, which completes the osseo-fibrous case in which the Supraspinatus muscle is contained; affording attachment, by its inner surface, to some of the fibres of the muscle. It is thick internally, but thinner externally under the coraco-acromial ligament. When this fascia is removed, the Supraspinatus muscle is exposed. The Supraspinatus muscle occupies the whole of the supraspinous fossa, arising from its internal two-thirds, and from, the strong fascia which covers its surface. The muscular fibres converge to a tendon, which passes across the capsular liga- ment of the shoulder-joint, to which it is intimately adherent, and is inserted into the highest of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Relations. By its upper surface, with the Trapezius, the clavicle, the acromion, the coraco-acromial ligament, and the Deltoid. By its under surface, with the scapula, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and upper part of the shoulder- joint. The infraspinous aponeurosis is a dense fibrous membrane, covering in the Infra- spinatus muscle, and attached to the circumference of the infraspinous fossa: it affords attachment, by its inner surface, to some fibres of that muscle, is continuous externally with the fascia of the arm, and gives off from its under surface inter- muscular septa, which separate the Infraspinatus from the Teres minor, and the latter from the Teres major. The Infraspinatus is a thick triangular muscle, which occupies the chief part of the infraspinous fossa, arising by fleshy fibres, from its internal two-thirds;