Ixv NERVOUS TISSUE. nervous system of animal life and the nervous system of organic life—the former subserving the higher functions of volition, sensation, &c., the latter those of growth and nutrition. It is clear that the former qualities reside, mainly in the cerebro-spinal system, while the intimate connection between the sympathetic nerve and the great viscera renders it highly probable that the sympathetic system has mainly, to do with the organic functions. Consequently the cerebrospinal system- was designated the system of animal life, and the sympathetic the system of organic life. But the distinction, though true to a certain extent, is by no means complete, as the student may easily see by consulting the works of modern physiologists. The grey or vesicular nervous substance is distinguished by its dark reddish-grey colour, and soft consistence. It is found in the brain, spinal cord, and various ganglia, intermingled with the fibrous nervous sub- stance, but is never found in the nerves. It is composed, as itsj; name Fig. XXIII.—Nerve-vesicles from the Gasserian ganglion of the human sub- ject: a, A globular one with defined border; b, its nucleus ; c, its nucleo- lus, d, Caudate vesicle; e, Elongated vesicle, with two groups of pigment particles ; /, Vesicle surrounded by its sheath or capsule of nucleated par- ticles ; (/, The same, the sheath only being in focus. Magnified 300 dia- meters. Fig. XXIV.—Nerve-vesicles from the. inner parts of the grey matter of the convolutions of the human brain ; magnified 350 times. Nerve-cells : «, larger, b, smaller, c, Nerve fibre, with axis-.cylinder. implies, of vesicles, or corpuscles, commonly called nerve- or ganglion- corpuscles, containing nuclei and nucleoli; the vesicles being imbedded either in a finely granular substance, as in the brain, or in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia. Each vesicle consists of an exceedingly delicate membranous wall, enclosing a finely granular material, part of which is occasionally of a coarser kind, and of a reddish or yellowish- brown colour. The nucleus is vesicular, much smaller than the vesicle, and adherent to some part of its interior. The nucleolus, which is enclosed within the nucleus, is vesicular in form, of minute size, and peculiarly clear and brilliant. The nerve-corpuscles vary in shape and size; some are small, spherical, or ovoidal, with an uninterrupted outline. These forms are most numerous in the ganglia of the sympathetic. Others, called caudate or stellate nerve-corpuscles, are characterised by their larger size, d