AXILLARY. 361 part of the space being crossed merely by a few small branches from the superior thoracic artery. There are some important nerves, however, in this situation; viz., the posterior thoracic or external respiratory nerve, descending on the surface of the Serratus magnus, to which it is distributed ; and perforating the upper and anterior part of this wall, the intercosto-humeral nerve or nerves, passing across the axilla to the inner side of the arm. The cavity of the axilla is filled by a quantity of loose areolar tissue, a large number of small arteries and veins, all of which are, however, of inconsiderable size, and numerous lymphatic glands ; these are from ten to twelve in number, and situated chiefly on the thoracic side, and lower and back part of this space. The student should attentively consider the relation of the vessels and nerves in the several parts of the axilla ; for it not unfrequently happens, that the surgeon is called upon to extirpate diseased glands, or to remove a tumour from this situation. In performing such an operation, it will be necessary to proceed with much caution in the direction of the outer wall and apex of the space, as here the axillary vessels will be in danger of being wounded. Towards the posterior wall, it will be necessary to avoid the subscapular, dorsalis scapulas, and posterior circumflex vessels, and, along the anterior wall, the thoracic branches. It is only along the inner or thoracic wall, and in the centre of the axillary cavity, that there are no vessels of any importance ; a fortunate circumstance, for it is in this situation more especially that tumours requiring removal are usually situated. The Axillaey Artery. The axillary artery, the continuation of the subclavian, commences at the lower border of the first rib, and terminates at the lower border of the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major muscles, where it takes the name of brachial. Its direction varies with the position of the limb: when the arm lies by the side of the chest, the vessel forms a gentle curve, the convexity being upwards and outwards ; when it is directed at right angles with the trunk, the vessel is nearly straight; and when it is elevated still higher, the artery describes a curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards. At its commencement the artery is very deeply situated, but near its termination is superficial, being covered only by the skin and fascia. The description of the relations of this vessel is facilitated by its division into three portions, the first portion being that above the Pectoralis minor; the second portion, behind ; and the third, below that muscle. The first 'portion of the axillary artery is in relation, in front, with the cla- vicular portion of the Pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, the Sub- clavius, and the cephalic vein; behind, with the first intercostal space, the corre- sponding Intercostal muscle, the first serration of the Serratus magnus, and the posterior thoracic nerve ; on its outer side with the brachial plexus, from which it is separated by a little cellular interval; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. Relations of First Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Pectoralis major. Costo-coracoid membrane. Subclavius. Cephalic vein. Outer side. Brachial plexus. Inner side. Axillary vein. JBehind. First Intercostal space, and Intercostal muscle. First serration of Serratus magnus. Posterior thoracic nerve.