602 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. below, by the tongue ; and on each side, by the pillars of the soft palate and tonsils. • The mucous membrane of the soft palate is thin, and covered with squamous epithelium on both surfaces, excepting near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, where it is columnar and ciliated. The palatine glands form a continuous layer on its posterior surface and round the uvula. The aponeurosis of the soft palate is a thin but firm fibrous layer, attached above to the hard palate, and becoming thinner towards the free margin of the velum. It is blended with the aponeurotic tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. The muscles of the soft palate are five on each side: the Levator palati, Tensor palati, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus, and Azygos uvula? (see p. 224). The tonsils (amygdalae) are two glandular organs, situated one on each side of the fauces, between the anterior and posterior pillars of the soft palate. They are of a rounded form, and vary considerably in size in different individuals. Exter- nally, the tonsil is in relation with the inner surface of the Superior constrictor, and with the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw. Its inner surface presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, leading into small recesses, from which numerous follicles branch out into the substance of the gland. These follicles are lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, covered with epithelium, their walls being formed by a layer of closed capsules embedded in the submucous tissue. These capsules are analogous to those of Peyer's glands; they contain a thick greyish secretion. The arteries supplying the tonsil are the dorsalis linguae from the lingual, the ascending palatine and tonsillar from the facial, the ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. The veins terminate in the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil. The nerves are derived from the fifth, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. The Salivary Glands. (Fig. 328.) The principal salivary glands communicating with the mouth, and pouring their secretion into its cavity, are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The Parotid gland, so called from being placed near the ear (japa, near ; ovq, uTog, the ear), is the largest of the three salivary glands, varying in weight from half an ounce to an ounce. It lies upon the side of the face, immediately below and in front of the external ear. It is limited above by the zygoma; below, by the angle of the jaw, and by an imaginary line drawn between it and the Sterno- mastoid muscle ; anteriorly, it extends to a variable extent over the Masseter muscle ; posteriorly, it is bounded by the external meatus, the mastoid process, and the Sterno-mastoid and Digastric muscles, slightly overlapping the former. Its anterior surface is grooved to embrace the posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw, and advances forwards beneath the ramus, between the two ptery- goid muscles. Its outer surface, slightly lobulated, is covered by the integument and fascia, and has one or two lymphatic glands resting on it. Its inner surface extends deeply into the neck, by means of two large processes, one of which dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and the Sterno-mastoid muscle ; the other is situated in front of the styloid process, and passes into the back part of the glenoid fossa, behind the articulation of the lower jaw. Embedded in its substance is the external carotid artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw; the posterior auricular artery emerges from the gland behind; the temporal artery above ; the transverse facial in front; and the internal maxillary winds through it inwards, behind the neck of the jaw. Super- ficial to the external carotid is the trunk formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins ; a branch, connecting this trunk with the internal jugular, also traverses the gland. It is also traversed, from before backwards, by the facial