534 SPINAL NERVES. lumbar nerve. It pierces the outer border of the Psoas muscle at its upper part, and crosses obliquely in front of the Quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium. It then perforates the Transversalis muscle at its back part, and divides between it and the Internal oblique into two branches, iliac and hypogastric. The iliac branch pierces the Internal and External oblique muscles immediately above the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the integument of the gluteal region, behind the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve (fig. 290). The size of this nerve bears an inverse proportion to that of the cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve. The hypogastric branch (fig. 288) continues onwards between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles. It first pierces the Internal oblique, and near the middle line perforates the External oblique above the external abdoniinal ring, and is distributed to the integument covering the hypogastric region. The Ilioinguinal Nerve (inferior musculo-cutaneous), smaller than the preceding, arises with it from the first lumbar nerve. It pierces the outer border of the Psoas just below the ilio-hypogastric, and, passing obliquely across the Quadratus lum- borum and Iliacus muscles, perforates the Transversalis, near the fore part of the crest of the ilium, and communicates with the Ilio-hypogastric nerve between that muscle and the Internal oblique. The nerve then pierces the Internal oblique, distributing filaments to it, and, accompanying the spermatic cord, escapes at the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and upper and inner part of the thigh in the male, and to the labium in the female. The size of this nerve is in inverse proportion to that of the ilio-hypogastric. Occasionally it is very small, and ends by joining the ilio-hypogastric ; in such cases, a branch from the ilio-hypogastric takes the place of the ilio-inguinal, or the latter nerve may be altogether absent. The Genito-crural Nerve arises from the second lumbar, and by a few fibres from the cord of communication between it and the first. It passes obliquely through the substance of the Psoas, descends on its surface to near Poupart's ligament, and divides into a genital and a crural branch. The genital branch descends on the external iliac artery, sending a few filaments round that vessel; it then pierces the fascia transversalis, and, passing through the internal abdominal ring, descends along the back part of the spermatic cord to the scrotum, and supplies, in the male, the Cremaster muscle. In the ^female, it accompanies the round ligament, and is lost upon it. The crural branch passes along the inner margin of the Psoas muscle, beneath Poupart's ligament, into the thigh, where it pierces the fascia lata, and is distri- buted to the integument of the upper and anterior aspect of the thigh, communi- cating with the middle cutaneous nerve. A few filaments from this nerve may be traced on to the femoral artery ; they are derived from the nerve as it passes beneath Poupart's ligament. The External Cutaneous Nerve arises from the second lumbar, or from the loop between it and the third. It perforates the outer border of the Psoas muscle about its middle, and crosses the Iliacus muscle obliquely, to the notch imme- diately beneath the anterior superior spine of the ilium, where it passes beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, and divides into two branches of nearly equal size. The anterior branch descends in an aponeurotic canal formed in the fascia lata, becomes superficial about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into branches, which are distributed to the integument along the anterior and outer part of the thigh, as far down as the knee. This nerve occasionally communicates with the long saphenous nerve. The posterior branch pierces the fascia lata, and subdivides into branches which pass across the outer and posterior surface of the thigh, supplying the integument as far as the middle of the thigh. The Obturator Nerve supplies the Obturator externus and Adductor muscles of the thigh, the articulations of the hip and knee, and occasionally the integument