ARTERIES. small, and occasionally so large that the posterior cerebral may be considered as arising from the internal carotid rather than from the basilar. It is frequently larger on one side than on the other side. The anterior choroid is a small but constant branch which arises from the back part of the internal carotid, near the posterior communicating artery. Passing backwards and outwards, it enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain. It is distributed to the hippo- campus major, corpus fimbriatum, and choroid plexus. ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The artery which supplies the upper extremity, continues as a single trunk from its commencement, so far as the elbow; but different portions of it have received different names, according to the region through which it passes. That part of the vessel which extends from its origin, as far as the outer border of the first rib, is termed the subclavian; beyond this point to the lower border of the axilla, it is termed the axillary; and from the lower margin of the axillary space to the bend of the elbow, it is termed brachial; here, the single trunk terminates by dividing into two branches, the radial and ulnar, an arrangement precisely similar to what occurs in the lower limb. Subclavian Arteries. The subclavian artery on the right side arises from the arteria innominata, opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation ; on the left side it arises from the arch of the aorta. It follows, therefore, that these two vessels must, in the first part of their course, differ in their length, their direction, and in their relation with neighbouring parts. In order to facilitate the description of these vessels, more especially in a sur- gical point of view, each subclavian artery has been divided into three parts. The first portion, on the right side, ascends obliquely outwards, from the origin of the vessel to the inner border of the Scalenus anticus. On the left side it ascends perpendicularly, to gain the inner border of that muscle. The second part passes outwards, behind the Scalenus anticus; and the third part passes from the outer margin of that muscle, beneath the clavicle, to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. The first portions of these two vessels differ so much in their course, and in their relation with neighbouring parts, that they will be described separately. The second and third parts are precisely alike on both sides. First Part of the Right Subclavian Artery. (Figs. 205, 207.) The right subclavian artery arises from the arteria innominata, opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, passes upwards and outwards across the root of the neck, and terminates at the inner margin of the Scalenus anticus muscle. In this part of its course, it ascends a little above the clavicle, the extent to which it does so varying in different cases. It is covered, in front, by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, deep fascia, the clavicular origin of the Sterno-mastoid, the Sterno- hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and another layer of the deep fascia. It is crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, and by the pneumogastric, the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, and phrenic nerves. Beneath, the artery is invested by the pleura, and behind, it is separated by a cellular interval from the Longus colli, the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, and the sympathetic ; the recurrent laryngeal nerve winding around the lower and back part of the vessel. The subclavian vein lies below the subclavian artery, imme- diately behind the clavicle.