x x 2 The Urinary Organs. The Kidneys. THE KIDNEYS are glandular organs, intended for the secretion of the urine. They are situated at the back part of the abdominal cavity, behind the peritoneum, one in each lumbar region, extending from the eleventh rib to near the crest of the ilium; the right being lower than the left, in consequence of the large size of the liver. They are usually surrounded by a considerable quantity of fat, and are retained in their position by the vessels which pass to and from them. Relations. The anterior surface of the kidney is convex, partially covered by the peritoneum, and is in relation, on the right side, with the back part of the right lobe of the liver, the descending portion of the duodenum, and the ascending colon; and on the left side with the great end of the stomach, the lower end of the spleen, the tail of the pancreas, and the descending colon. The posterior surface is flattened, and rests upon the corresponding cms of the Diaphragm, in front of the eleventh and twelfth ribs, on the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis, which separates the kidney from the Quadratus lumborum, and on the Psoas magnus. The superior extremity, directed inwards, is thick and rounded, and embraced by the supra-renal capsule. It corresponds, on the left side, to the upper border and on the right side to the lower border of the eleventh rib. The inferior extremity, small and flattened, extends nearly as low as the crest of the ilium. The external border is convex, and directed outwards towards the parietes of the abdomen. The internal border is concave, and presents a deep notch, the hilum of the kidney, more marked behind than in front. At the hilum, the vessels, excretory duct and nerves, pass into or from the organ; the branches of the renal vein lying in front, the artery and its branches next, the excretory duct or ureter behind and below. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify, and much cellular tissue and fat surrounds the whole. The hilum leads into a hollow space, the sinus, which occupies the interior of the gland. Each kidney is about four inches in length, two inches in breadth, and about one inch in thickness ; the left being somewhat longer and thinner than the right. The weight of the kidney in the adult male varies from 41- oz. to 6 oz.; in the female, from 4 oz. to 5 J- oz. The left kidney is nearly always heavier than the right, by about two drachms. Their weight in proportion to the body is about 1 to 240. The renal substance is dense, firm to the touch, but very fragile, and of a deep red colour. The kidney is invested by a fibrous capsule, formed of dense fibro-areolar tissue. This capsule is thin, smooth, and easily removed from the surface of the kidney, to which it is connected by fine fibrous processes and vessels; and at the hilum is continued inwards, lining the sides of the sinus, and at the bottom of that cavity forms sheaths around the blood-vessels, and the subdivisions of the excretory duct. On making a vertical section through the organ, from its convex to its concave border, it appears to consist of two different substances, viz., an external or cortical, and an internal or medullary, substance. The cortical substance forms about three-fourths of the gland. It occupies the