383 SUPERIOR MESENTERIC. ' The gastric (vasa brevia) consist of from five to seven small branches, which arise either from the termination of the splenic artery, or from its terminal branches ; and passing from left to right, between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, are distributed to the great curvature of the stomach 5 anastomosing with branches of the gastric and gastro-epiploica sinistra arteries. The gastro-epiploica sinistra, the largest branch of the splenic, runs from left to right along the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum ; and anastomoses with the gastro-epiploica dextra. In its course it distributes several branches to the stomach, which ascend upon both surfaces ; others descend to supply the omentum. Superior Mesenteric Artery. (Eig. 225.) In order to expose this vessel, raise the great omentum and transverse colon, draw down the small intestines, and cut through the peritoneum where the transverse meso-colon and mesentery join : the artery will then be exposed, just as it issues from beneath the lower border of the pancreas. The Superior Mesenteric Artery supplies the whole length of the small intestine, except the first part of the duodenum ; it also supplies the caecum, ascending and transverse colon ; it is a vessel of large size, arising from the fore part of the aorta, about a quarter of an inch below the coeliac axis; being covered, at its origin, by the splenic vein and pancreas. It passes forwards, between the pancreas and transverse portion of the duodenum, crosses in front of this portion of the intestine, and descends between the layers of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa, where it terminates, considerably diminished in size. In its course it forms an arch, the convexity of which is directed forwards and downwards to the left side, the concavity backwards and upwards to the right. It is accompanied by the superior mesenteric vein, and is surrounded by the superior mesenteric plexus of nerves. Its branches are the Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. Ileo-colic. Yasa intestini tenuis. Colica dextra. Colica media. The inferior pancreatico duonenal is given off from the superior mesenteric behind the pancreas, and is distributed to the head of the pancreas, and the trans- verse and descending portions of the duodenum; anastomosing with the pancreatico- duodenal artery. The vasa intestini tenuis arise from the convex side of the superior mesenteric artery. They are usually from twelve to fifteen in number, and are distributed to the jejunum and ileum. They run parallel with one another between the layers of the mesentery; each vessel dividing into two branches, which unite with a similar branch on each side, forming a series of arches, the convexities of which are directed towards the intestine. Erom this first set of arches branches arise, which again unite with similar branches from either side, and thus a second series of arches is formed ; and from these latter, a third, and a fourth, or even fifth series of arches are constituted, diminishing in size the nearer they approach the intes- tine. Erom the terminal arches numerous small straight vessels arise which encircle the intestine, upon which they are distributed, ramifying thickly between its coats. The ileo-colic artery is the lowest branch given off from the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery. It descends between the layers of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa, where it divides into two branches. Of these, the inferior one inosculates with the lowest branches of the vasa intestini tenuis, from the convexity of which branches proceed to supply the termination of the ileum, the coecum and appendix cceci, and the ileo-coecal valve. The superior division inosculates with the colica dextra, and supplies the commencement of the colon. The colica dextra arises from about the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery, and passing beneath the peritoneum to the middle of the ascending colon, divides into two branches ; a descending branch, which inoscu-