LARGE INTESTINE. 621 times guarded with an incomplete valve. Its coats are thick, and its mucous lining furnished with a large number of solitary glands. Ileo-Gcecal Valve. The lower end of the ileum terminates at the inner and back part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the caecum with the colon. At this point the mucous membrane forms two valvular folds, which project into the large intestine, and are separated from each other by a narrow elongated aperture. This is the ileo-csecal valve (valvula Bauhini). Each fold is semilunar in form. The upper one, nearly horizontal in direction, is attached 338.—The Caecum and Colon laid open to show the Ileo-Csecal Valve. by its convex border to the point of junction of the ileum with the colon; the lower segment, to the point of junction of the ileum with the caecum. Their free concave margins project into the intestine, separated from one another by a narrow slit-like aperture, directed transversely. At each end of this aperture the two segments of the valve coalesce, and are continued, as a narrow membranous ridge, around the canal of the intestine for a short distance, forming the frmna, or retinacula of the valve. The left end of this aperture is rounded : the right end is narrow and pointed. Each segment of the valve is formed by a reduplication of the mucous mem- brane, and of the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, the longitudinal fibres and peritoneum being continued uninterruptedly across from one intestine to the other. When these are divided or removed, the ileum may be drawn outwards, and all traces of the valve will be lost, the ileum appearing to open into the large intestine by a funnel-shaped orifice of large size. The surface of each segment of the valve directed towards the ileum is covered with villi, and presents the characteristic structure of the mucous membrane of the small intestine ; whilst that turned towards the large intestine is destitute of villi, and marked with the orifices of the numerous tubuli peculiar to the mem- brane in the large intestine. These differences in structure continue as far as the free margin of the valve. When the caecum is distended, the margins of the opening are approximated, so as to prevent any reflux into the ileum.