cxxx GENERAL ANATOMY. occipital, sphenoid, os anguis, nasal bones, squamous portion of temporal and ischium. Orbital centre of superior maxillary bone. Commencement of formation of maxillary- sinus. Pons Varolii. Fissure of Sylvius. Formation of eyelids and of hairs and nails. Mammary gland. Epiglottis. Union of the testicle with the canals of the Wolffian body. Prostate. Fourth month.—The closure of the cartilaginous arches of the spine is complete. Osseous points for the first sacral vertebra and pubes. Ossification of the malleus and incus. Corpus callosum. Membranous lamina spiralis; cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Tympanic ring. Fat in subcutaneous cellular tissue. Tonsils. Closure of genital furrow and for- mation of scrotum and prepuce. Fifth month.—The two layers of decidua begin to coalesce. Osseous nuclei of axis and odontoid process. Lateral points of first sacral vertebra ; median points of second. Osseous points of lateral masses of ethmoid. Ossification of stapes and petrous bone. Ossification of germs of teeth. Appearance of germs of permanent teeth. Eruption of hair on head. Sudoriferous glands. Glands of Brunner. Follicles of tonsils and base of tongue. Lymphatic glands. Commencement of limitation of uterus and vagina. Sixth month.—Points of ossification for the anterior root of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Lateral points of second sacral vertebra; median points of third. The sacro-vertebral angle forms. Osseous points of the manubrium sterni and of the os calcis. The cerebral hemisphere covers the cerebellum. Papilla? of the skin. Sebaceous glands. The free border of the nail projects from the corium of the dermis. Peyer's patches. The walls of the uterus thicken. Seventh month.—Additional points of first sacral vertebra; lateral points of third, median point of fourth. First osseous point of body of sternum. Osseous point for astra- galus. Disappearance of Meckel's cartilage. Cerebral convolutions. Insula of Peil. Separation of tubercula quadrigemina. Disappearance of pupillary membrane. The testicle passes into the vaginal process of the peritoneum. Eighth month.—Additional points for the second sacral vertebra; lateral points for the fourth ; median points for the fifth. Ninth month.—Additional points for the third sacral vertebra ; lateral points for the fifth. Osseous point for the middle turbinated bone ; for the body and great eornu of the hyoid ; for the second and third pieces of the body of the sternum ; for the lower end of the femur. Ossification of the bony lamina spiralis and axis of the cochlea. Opening of the eyelids. The testicles are in the scrotum.