SPINAL NERVES. to the inner surface of the Obturator internus : the branch to the Gemellus superior arises from the lower part of the plexus, near the pudic nerve: the small branch to the Gemellus inferior and Quadratus femoris also arises from the lower part of the plexus; it passes beneath the Gemelli and tendon of the Obturator internus, and supplies an articular branch to the hip-joint. This branch is occasionally derived from the upper part of the great sciatic nerve. The Superior Gluteal Nerve (fig. 291) arises from the back part of the lumbo- sacral ; it passes from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the Pyriformis muscle, accompanied by the gluteal vessels, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The superior branch follows the line of origin of the Gluteus minimus, and sup- plies it and the Gluteus medius. The inferior branch crosses obliquely between the Gluteus minimus and medius, distributing filaments to both these muscles, and terminates in the Tensor vaginae femoris, extending nearly to its lower end. The Pudic Nerve arises from the lower part of the sacral plexus, and leaves the pelvis, through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, -below the Pyriformis. It then crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro- sciatic foramen. It accompanies the pudic vessels upwards and forwards along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being covered by the obturator fascia, and divides into two terminal branches, the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. Near its origin, it gives off the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve. The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is occasionally derived from the sacral plexus. It passes across the ischio-rectal fossa, with its accompanying vessels, towards the lower end of the rectum, and is distributed to the External sphincter f, > and the integument round the anus. Branches of this nerve communicate with the inferior pudendal and superficial perineal nerves on the inner margin of the thigh. The perineal nerve, the inferior and larger of the two terminal branches of the pudic, is situated below the pudic artery. It accompanies the superficial perineal artery in the perineum, dividing into cutaneous and muscular branches. The cutaneous branches (superficial perineal) are two in number, posterior and anterior. The posterior branch passes to the back part of the ischio-rectal fossa, distributing filaments to the Sphincter ani and integument in front of the anus, which communicate with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve; it then passes forwards, with the anterior branch, to the back of the scrotum, communicating with the anterior branch and with the inferior pudendal. The anterior branch passes to the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa, in front of the preceding, and accompanies it to the scrotum and under part of the penis. This branch gives one or two filaments to the Levator ani. The muscular branches are distributed to the Transversus perinei, Accelerator urinse, Erector penis, and Compressor urethree. The nerve of the bulb supplies the corpus spongiosum; some of its filaments run for some distance on the surface, before penetrating to the interior. The dorsal nerve of the penis is the superior division of the pudic nerve; it accompanies the pudic artery along the ramus of the ischium, and between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia; it then pierces the suspensory ligament of the penis, and accompanies the arteria dorsalis penis to the glans, to which it is distributed. On the penis, this nerve gives off a cutaneous branch, which runs along the side of the organ ; it is joined with branches of the sympathetic, and supplies the integument of the upper surface and sides of the penis and prepuce, giving a large branch to the corpus cavernosum. In the female, the pudic nerve is distributed to the parts analogous to those in the male ; its superior division terminating in the clitoris, its inferior in the ex- ternal labia and perineum. The Small Sciatic Nerve (fig. 291) supplies the integument of the perineum and back part of the thigh and leg, and one muscle, the Gluteus maximus. It is