THE LYMPH AND CHYLE. xli of blood. They are of three kinds :— i. Hsematin crystals, found in normal blood, particularly in the spleen. These are procured by the addition of a little water, or by agitating the blood with ether, by either of which means the blood-corpuscles are ruptured, and their contents crystallise on evapo- ration. 2. Hsematoidin crystals, found in old clots. 3. Hsemin crystals, formed by mixing dried blood with an equal quantity of common salt and boiling it with a few drops of glacial acetic acid till the whole has dissolved. A drop of the mixture placed on the slide will show the crystals on cooling. Fig. III. shows these three forms of crystals from human blood to- gether with some from the lower animals, for comparison. The importance of being acquainted with the crystals found in human blood is obvious, and more particularly those which can be obtained from dried blood ; since in this way old blood-stains can be recognised as being human or otherwise, even long after their formation. The spectrum analysis, however, is said to be a more delicate test of fresh blood. LYMPH AND CHYLE. The lymph and the chyle are almost identical in constitution, though the proportion of their constituents varies in different parts of the vascu- lar system. The lymph is the secretion of a system of vessels and glands, to be more fully described in the sequel, which takes up from the worn- out tissues that which is still available for purposes of nutrition and returns it into the veins close to the heart, there to be mixed with the mass of the blood. The chyle is a fluid secreted by the villi of the small intestines from the food. It is intermingled, with the lymph, and is poured into the circulation through the same channels.* See the description of the Thoracic Duct, Lacteals, and Ductus Lymphaticus dexter, in the body of the work. On microscopical examination, chyle displays besides the lymph-corpus- cles a large number of fatty granules, 'the granular base of the chyle,' (Fig. IY. a) oil globules, free nuclei and a few red blood-globules. The white colour of the chyle is due to the abundance Fig. IV.—Chyle from the lacteals. of the molecular base. These molecules are almost or entirely absent in lymph. In other respects lymph and chyle are indistinguishable by microscopic examina- tion, but in external appearance they are very different. Chyle is a milk-white fluid, which coagu- lates spontaneously, and then on standing separates more or less completely into a clear part, the liquor chyli, which is identical with the liquor sanguinis, and a thinnish jelly-like clot, consisting of fibrin in which chyle-corpuscles and the fatty molecules are entangled. Its analysis, as given by Dr. G. 0. Eees f from the chyle * It may not be amiss to remind the student that the lacteal or chyliferous vessels only convey a portion of the nutritious matter from the food, and this only during digestion. A other times they seem to act precisely as ordinary lymphatics. t Phil. Trans. 1842, p. 82.