Male Generative Organs, Peostate Gland. THE Prostate Gland (irpotffrripi, to stand before) is a pale, firm, glandular body, which surrounds the neck of the bladder and commencement of the urethra. It is placed in the pelvic cavity, behind and below the symphysis pubis, posterior to the deep perineal fascia, and upon the rectum, through which it may be distinctly felt, especially when enlarged. In shape and size it resembles a horse-chestnut. Its base is directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder. The apex is directed forwards to the deep perineeal fascia, which it touches. Its under surface is smooth, and rests on the rectum, to which it is connected by dense areolar fibrous tissue. Its upper surface is flattened, marked by a slight longitudinal furrow, and placed about three-quarters of an inch below the pubic symphysis. It measures about an inch and a half in its transverse diameter at the base, an inch in its antero-posterior diameter, and three-quarters of an inch in depth. Its weight is about six drachms. It is held in its position by the anterior ligaments of the bladder (pubo-prostatic) ; by the posterior layer of the deep perinseal fascia, which invests the commencement of the membranous portion of the urethra and prostate gland; and by the anterior portion of the Levator ani muscle {levator prostata?), which passes down on each side from the symphysis pubis and anterior ligament of the bladder to the sides of the prostate. The prostate consists of three lobes : two lateral and a middle lobe. The two lateral lobes are of equal size, separated behind by a deep notch, and marked by a slight furrow upon their upper and lower surface, which indicates the bi-lobed condition of the organ in some animals. The third, or middle lobe, is a small transverse band, occasionally a rounded or triangular prominence, placed between the two lateral lobes, at the under and posterior part of the organ. It lies immediately beneath the neck of the bladder, behind the commencement of the urethra, and above the ejaculatory ducts. Its existence is not constant; but it is occasionally found at an early period of life, as well as in adults, and in old age. In advanced life it often becomes considerably enlarged, and projects into the bladder, so as to impede the passage of the urine. According to Dr. Messer's researches, conducted at Greenwich Hospital,* it would seem that this obstruction exists in 20 per cent, of all prostates over sixty years of age. The prostate gland is perforated by the urethra and common seminal ducts. The urethra usually lies about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface; occasionally the prostate surrounds only the lower three-fourths of this tube, and more rarely the urethra runs through the lower instead of the upper part of the gland. The ejaculatory ducts pass forwards obliquely through a conical canal, situated in the lower part of the prostate, and open into the prostatic portion of the urethra. Structure. The prostate is enclosed in a thin but firm fibrous capsule, distinct from that derived from the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, and separated from it by a plexus of veins. Its substance is of a pale reddish-grey colour, very friable, but of great density. It consists of glandular substance and muscular tissue. The glandular substance is composed of numerous follicular pouches, opening into elongated canals, which join to form from twelve to twenty small excretory ducts. The follicles are connected together by areolar tissue, supported by pro- lnn-Mtions from the fibrous capsule, and enclosed in a delicate capillary plexus. * Med.-Chir, Trans., vol. xliii. p. 152.