ORGANS OF SENSE. 582 common to both cavities, and is occupied by the base of the stapes. This mem- brane is placed opposite the membrana tympani, and is connected with it by the ossicula auditus. The fenestra rotunda is an oval aperture, placed at the bottom of a funnel- shaped depression, leading into the cochlea. It is situated below and rather behind 312.—View of Inner Wall of Tympanum. (Enlarged.) the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a rounded elevation, the pro- montory ; it is closed in the recent state by a membrane (membrana tympani secundaria, Scarpa). This membrane is concave towards the tympanum, convex towards the cochlea. It consists of three layers : the external, or mucous, de- rived from the mucous lining of the tympanum; the internal, or serous, from the lining membrane of the cochlea ; and an intermediate, or fibrous layer. The promontory is a rounded hollow prominence, formed by the projection outwards of the first turn of the cochlea; it is placed between the fenestras, and is furrowed on its surface by three small grooves, which lodge branches of the tympanic plexus. The rounded eminence of the aquceductus Fallopii is placed beneath the fenestra ovalis and roof of the tympanum ; it is the prominence of the bony canal in which the portio dura is contained. It traverses the inner wall of the tympanum above the fenestra ovalis, and behind that opening curves nearly vertically downwards along the posterior wall. The pyramid is a conical eminence, situated immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, and in front of the vertical portion of the eminence above described; it is hollow in the interior, and contains the Stapedius muscle; its summit projects forwards towards the fenestra ovalis, and presents a small aperture, which trans- mits the tendon of the muscle. The cavity in the pyramid is prolonged into a minute canal, which communicates with the aquasductus Fallopii, and transmits the nerve which supplies the Stapedius. The posterior wall of the tympanum is wider above than below, and presents for examination the Openings of the Mastoid Cells. These consist of one large irregular aperture, and several smaller openings, situated at the upper part of the posterior wall; they lead into canals, which communicate with large irregular cavities contained in the interior of the mastoid process. These cavities vary considerably in number, size, and form ; they are lined by mucous membrane, continuous with that covering the cavity of the tympanum. The anterior wall of the tympanum is wider above than below ; it corresponds