OF THE TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 34* Surgical Anatomy of the Triangles op the Neck. The student having considered the relative anatomy of the large arteries of the neck and their branches, and the relations they bear to the veins and nerves, should now examine these structures collectively, as they present themselves in certain regions of the neck, in each of which important operations are being constantly performed. For this purpose, the Sterno-mastoid, or any other muscles that have been divided in the dissection of the vessels, should be replaced in their normal position ; the head should be supported by placing a block at the back of the neck, and the face turned to the side opposite to that which is being examined. The side of the neck presents a somewhat quadrilateral outline, limited, above,, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and an imaginary line extending from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process ; below, by the prominent upper border of the clavicle ; in front, by the median line of the neck ; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle. This space is subdivided into two large triangles by the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which passes obliquely across the neck, from the sternum and clavicle, below, to the mastoid process, above. The triangular space in front of this muscle, is called the anterior triangle; and that behind it, the posterior triangle. Anterior Triangular Space. The anterior triangle is limited, in front, by a line extending from the chin to the sternum; behind, by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid; its base, directed upwards, is formed by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and a line extending from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process; its apex is below, at the sternum. This space is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; it is crossed by branches of the facial and superficial cervical nerves, and is subdivided into three smaller triangles by the Digastric muscle, above, and the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, below. These smaller triangles are named from below upwards,, the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, and the submaxillary triangle. The Inferior Carotid Triangle is limited, in front, by the median line of the neck ; behind, by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid; above, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; and is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which is seen the descending branch of the superficial cervical nerve. Beneath these superficial structures, are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, which, together with the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, conceal the lower part of the common carotid artery.* This vessel is enclosed within its sheath, together with the internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve ; the vein lying on the outer side of the artery on the right side of the neck, but overlapping it, or passing directly across it on the left side : the nerve lying between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. In front of the sheath are a few filaments descending from the loop of communication between the descendens and communicans noni; behind the sheath are seen the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the sympathetic nerve; and on its inner side, the trachea, the thyroid gland, much more prominent in the female than in the male, and the lower part of the larynx. By cutting into the upper part of this space, and slightly displacing the Sterno-mastoid muscle, the common carotid artery may be tied below the Omo- hyoid muscle. * Therefore the carotid artery and jugular vein are not, strictly speaking, contained in this triangle, since they are covered by the Sterno-mastoid muscle, that is to say, lie behind the anterior border of that muscle, which forms the posterior border of the triangle. But as they lie very close to the structures which are really contained in the triangle, and whose position it is essential to remember in operating on this part of the artery, it has seemed expedient to study the relations of all these parts together.