187 KNEE-JOINT. firmly implanted into a depression in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia; its posterior extremity into the depression behind the spine, between the attachment of the external cartilage and posterior crucial ligament. The External Semilunar Fibro-Cartilage forms nearly an entire circle, covering a larger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is grooved on its outer side, for the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. Its circumference is held in connection with the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments ; and its two extremities are firmly implanted in the depressions in front and behind the spine of the tibia. These extremities, at their insertion, are interposed between the attachments of the internal cartilage. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage gives off from its anterior border a fasciculus, which forms the transverse ligament. By its anterior extremity, it is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. Its posterior extremity divides into three slips; two of these pass upwards and forwards, and are inserted into the outer side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, one in front, the other behind the posterior crucial ligament; the third fasciculus is inserted into the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a band of fibres, which passes transversely from the anterior convex margin of the external semilunar cartilage to the anterior extremity of the internal cartilage ; its thickness varies considerably in different subjects. The Coronary Ligaments consist of numerous short fibrous bands, which con- nect the convex border of the semilunar cartilages with the circumference of the head of the tibia, and with the other ligaments surrounding the joint. The Synovial Membrane of the knee-joint is the largest and most extensive in the body. Commencing at the upper border of the patella, it forms a large cul- de-sac beneath the Extensor tendon of the thigh: this is sometimes replaced by a synovial bursa interposed between the tendon and the front of the femur, which in some subjects communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, by an orifice of variable size. On each side of the patella, the synovial membrane extends beneath the aponeurosis of the Yasti muscles, and more especially beneath, that of the Vastus internus : and, below the patella, it is separated from the, anterior ligament by a considerable quantity of adipose tissue. In this situation it sends off a triangular prolongation, containing a few ligamentous fibres, which extends from the anterior part of the joint below the patella, to the front of the inter-condyloid notch. This fold has been termed the Ugamentum mucosum., The ligamenta alaria consist of two fringe-like folds, which extend from the sides of the ligamentum mucosum, upwards and outwards, to the sides of the patella. The synovial membrane invests the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and on the back part of the external one forms a cul-de-sac between the groove on its surface, and the tendon of „the Popliteus ; it is continued to the articular surface of the tibia: surrounds the crucial ligaments, and the inner surface of the ligaments which enclose the joint; lastly, it approaches the condyles of the femur, and from them is continued on to the lower part of the front of the shaft. The pouch of synovial membrane between the Extensor tendon and front of the femur is supported, during the movements of the knee, by a small muscle, the Subcrureeus, which is inserted into it. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the anastomotic branch of the femoral, articular branches of the popliteal, and recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. The Nerves are derived from the obturator, anterior crural, and external and internal popliteal. Actions.—The knee-joint allows of movements of flexion and extension, and of slight rotation inwards and outwards. The complicated mechanism of this joint renders it necessary to study each of these movements separately, pointing out incidentally the functions of each of the principal components of the joint. The tibia executes a rotatory movement during flexion around an imaginary axis draw 11 transversely through its upper end. This causes a change in the apposition of the tibia and femur. Thus, in extreme extension, it is the anterior portion of the tibia