GENERAL ANATOMY. Ixvi and from having one or more tail-like processes issuing from them, which occasionally divide and subdivide into numerous branches. These pro- cesses are very delicate, apparently tubular, and contain a similar granular material to that found within the corpuscle. Some of the processes terminate in fine transparent fibres, which become lost among the other elements of the nervous tissue; others may be traced until, after losing their granular appearance, they become continuous with an ordinary nerve-fibre. The white, otherwise called tubular or fibrous nervous substance, is found constituting a great part of the brain and spinal cord, almost the whole of the cerebrospinal nerves, and a great part of the sympathetic. The tubes, when perfectly fresh, appear to be homogeneous, but they soon separate into two parts, the white substance of Schwann and the axis-cylinder of Purkinje, the whole being enclosed in a structureless Fig. XXV.—Human nerve-tubes, magnified 3 50 times. Three of them are fine, one of which is varicose, one of middling thick- ness, and with a simple contour; and three thick, two of which are double-con- toured, and one with grumous contents. Fig. XXVI. ANerve-tube of the com- mon eel in water. The delicate line on its exterior indicates the tubu- lar membrane. The dark double- edged inner one is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled, b, The same in ether. Several oil-globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube. The white substance has in part disappeared. Magni- fied 300 diameters. , membrane—the tubular membrane.* The white substance is regarded as being a fatty matter in a fluid state, which isolates and protects the essential part of the nerve—the axis-cylinder. The partial coagulation of this white substance which follows on cooling gives the nerve-tube, when examined after death, a double contour—the darker part seen on the outside of the axis-cylinder being the white substance of Schwann. In consequence of the extreme delicacy of the tubular membrane, even slight pressure will often give nerve-tubes a varicose outline, and drops of oil, from the transudation of the fatty matter, often form outside the tubular membrane. This is, of course, promoted by the action of ether. * Dr. Beale describes and figures cases in which several fibres, some with, others without the white substance, are enclosed in a common tubular membrane. See Phil. Trans., 1862.