ANATOMY DESCRIPTIVE AND SURGICAL. The Skeleton. fJlHE entire skeleton in the adult consists of 200 distinct bones. These are— The Spine or vertebral column (sacrum and coccyx included) . 26 Cranium 8 Face 14 Os hyoides, sternum, and ribs 26 Upper extremities 64 Lower extremities 62 200 In this enumeration, the patellae are included as separate bones, but the smaller sesamoid bones, and the ossicula auditus, are not reckoned. The teeth belong to the tegumentary system. These bones are divisible into four classes: Long, Short, Flat, and Irregular. The Long Bones are found in the limbs, where they form a system of levers, which have to sustain the weight of the trunk, and to confer thepower of locomotion. A long bone consists of a lengthened cylinder or shaft, and two extremities. The shaft is a hollow cylinder, the walls consisting of dense compact tissue of great thickness in the middle, and becoming thinner towards the extremities; the spongy tissue is scanty, and the bone is hollowed out in its interior to form the medullary canal. The extremities are generally somewhat expanded for greater convenience of mutual connection, for the purposes of articulation, and to afford a broad surface for muscular attachment. Here the bone is made up of spongy tissue with only a thin coating of compact substance. The long bones are, the humerus, radius, ulna, femur, tibia, fibula, metacarpal, and metatarsal bones, and the phalanges. The clavicle is also usually reckoned as a long bone. Short Bones. "Where a part of the skeleton is intended for strength and com- pactness, and its motion is at the same time slight and limited, it is divided into a number of small pieces united together by ligaments, and the separate bones are short and compressed, such as the bones of the carpus and tarsus. These bones, in their structure, are spongy throughout, excepting at their surface, where there is a thin crust of compact substance. Mat Bones. Where the principal requirement is either extensive protection, or the provision of broad surfaces for muscular attachment, we find the osseous struc- ture expanded into broad flat plates, as is seen in the bones of the skull and the shoulder-blade. These bones are composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue. In the cranial bones, these layers of compact tissue are familiarly known as the tables of the skull; the outer one is thick and tough; the inner one thinner, denser, and more brittle, and hence termed the vitreous table. The intervening cancellous tissue is called the diploe. The flat bones are, the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrymal, vomer, scapuloe, ossa innominata, sternum, and ribs. B