lxxvi GENERAL ANATOMY. cesses springing out of the cell; one of these (and according to Deiters one only) is recognised as an axis-cylinder; the others are fibrillse, which are continuous with similar fibrillse of which under high powers the apparently granular contents of the cell are found to be composed, and which appear therefore simply to run through the cell. The fibrillse may be, and probably are, primitive nervous fibrils, but they are so delicate that it has not as yet been found possible to ascertain their destination. With regard also to the axis-cylinder which is seen pro- ceeding out of the ganglionic corpuscle, although it is highly probable that it originates in that corpuscle, the fact has not been proved—nor has its relation to the nucleus of the corpuscle been demonstrated. Tn fine, all that is known on the subject is that many of the fibrillse and axis- cylinders can be shown either to originate in or to pass through ganglionic corpuscles (or nerve-cells), and other nerves can be shown to contain such nerve-cells in their interior at certain parts of their course. But whether in the case of such connection in one of the central organs the cell is to be regarded as the origin of the nervous fibril, or whether the fibril merely passes through the cell (as some observers believe), just in the same manner as nerves pass through ganglia, has not been determined. If the latter view be correct, it may be that nerves have really no central termination, but that their fibrils start from their peripheral distribution, travel to the nervous centre, are there brought into connection with the nerve-cells and thence return to their distribution. However, in the present state of anatomical knowledge, the more probable opinion seems to be that which is usually entertained; viz. that each nerve-fibre is connected somewhere with a ganglionic corpuscle which is to be regarded as its central ter- mination or origin. Dr. Beale asserts that even in those ganglion-cells which appear either altogether destitute of processes, or unipolar, numerous fibres can be seen proceeding out of them if the proper reagents be used and very high powers employed. The peripheral connections, or terminations of the nerve-fibres, are somewhat more easy to ascertain, though even as to these a great difference exists with respect to minute details. They are usually and naturally studied in the sensory and motor nerves separately. Sensory nerves sometimes terminate in minute plexuses in the subcuta- neous or submucous areolar tissue. Dr. Sharpey says that he has seen the ultimate fibres of these minute plexuses come into close contact with the connective-tissue corpuscles, but has not been able to trace any distinct connection between them. The white substance of Schwann and the tubular sheath usually dis- appear as the nerve approaches its termination, leaving only the axis- cylinder invested by its proper basement-membrane, on which nuclei can be seen at intervals, and in many cases the axis-cylinder itself breaks up into the primitive fibrils. In some parts, however, the fibres appear to be enclosed up to their termination in a sheath which is either a prolongation of the neurilemma, or a continuation of the tubular membrane. The differences of opinion prevailing on the question of the ultimate distribu- tion of the nerve-fibres depend on their extreme delicacy and the conse- quent great difficulty of following individual fibres in continuity. Hence what some observers describe as a free end in which the nerve terminates,