ARTERIES. 33° child, it is somewhat smaller than the internal carotid; but in the adult, the two vessels are of nearly equal size. At its commencement, this artery is more super- ficial, and placed nearer the middle line than the internal carotid, and is contained in the triangular space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid behind, the Omo-hyoid below, and the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid above ; it is covered by the skin, Platysma, deep fascia, and anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and by the lingual and facial veins ; it is after- wards crossed by the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and higher up passes deeply into the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. Internally is the hyoid bone, the wall of the pharynx, and the ramus of the jaw, from which it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland. Behind it, near its origin, is the superior laryngeal nerve ; and higher up, it is separated from the internal carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and part of the parotid gland. Plan of the Relations of the External Carotid. Behind. Superior Laryngeal nerve. Stylo-glossus. Stylo-pharyngeus. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Internally. Hyoid bone. Pharynx. Parotid gland. Ramus of jaw. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the external carotid may be required in cases of wounds of this vessel, or of its branches when these cannot be tied, and in some cases of pulsating tumour of the scalp or face; the operation, however, is very rarely per- formed, ligature of the common carotid being preferable, on account of the number of branches given off from the external. To tie this vessel near its origin, below the point where it is crossed by the Digastric, an incision about three inches in length should be made along the margin of the Sterno-mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to the cricoid cartilage, as in the operation for tying the common carotid. To tie the vessel above the Digastric, between it and the parotid gland, an incision should be made from the lobe of the ear to the great cornu of the os hyoides, dividing successively the skin, Platysma, and fascia. By separating the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles which are seen at the lower part of the wound, from the parotid gland, the vessel will be exposed, and a ligature may be applied to it. The circulation is at once re-established by the free communication between most of the large branches of the artery (facial, lingual, superior thyroid, occipital) and the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and by the free anastomosis of the facial with branches from the internal carotid, of the occipital with branches of the subclavian, etc. Branches. The external carotid artery gives off eight branches, which, for con- venience of description, may be divided into four sets. (See fig. 208, Plan of the Branches.) Anterior. Posterior. Ascending. Terminal. Superior thyroid. Occipital. Ascending pha- Temporal. Lingual. Posterior auricular. ryngeal. Internal maxillary. Facial. The student is here reminded that many variations are met with in the number, origin, and course of these branches in different subjects; but the above arrange- ment is that which is found in the great majority of cases. In front. Integument, superficial fascia. Platysma and deep fascia. Hypoglossal nerve. Lingual and facial veins. Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles. Parotid gland with facial nerve and temporo-maxillary vein in its finhstanp.ft.