MUSCLES AND FAS CLE. 238 form a small muscle, which is inserted, by separate tendons, into the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebras, the number varying from four to eight. It is intimately united with the Semispinalis dorsi, which lies beneath it. The Spinalis Colli is a small muscle, connecting together the spinous processes of the cervical vertebras, and analogous to the Spinalis dorsi in the dorsal region. It varies considerably in its size, and in its extent of attachment to the vertebras, not only in different bodies, but on the two sides of the same body. It usually arises by fleshy or tendinous slips, varying from two to four in number, from the spinous processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras, and occasionally from the first and second dorsal, and is inserted into the spinous process of the axis, and occasionally into the spinous process of the two vertebras below it. This muscle was found absent in five cases out of twenty-four. The Complexus is a broad thick muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the neck, beneath the Splenius, and internal to the Transversalis colli and Trachelo-mastoid. It arises, by a series of tendons, about seven in number, from the tips of the transverse processes of the upper three dorsal and seventh cervical, and from the articular processes of the three cervical above this. The tendons uniting form a broad muscle, which passes obliquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the innermost depression between the two curved lines of the occi- pital bone. This muscle, about its middle, is traversed by a transverse tendinous intersection. The Biventer Gervicis is a small fasciculus, situated on the inner side of the preceding, and in the majority of cases blended with it; it has received its name from having a tendon intervening between two fleshy bellies. It is sometimes described as a separate muscle, arising, by from two to four tendinous slips, from the transverse processes of as many of the upper dorsal vertebras, and inserted, on the inner side of the Complexus, into the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Relations. The muscles of the fourth layer are bound down to the vertebras and ribs in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the lumbar fascia and vertebral aponeurosis. Their inner part covers the muscles of the fifth layer. In the neck they are in relation, by their superficial surface, with the Trapezius and Splenius ; by their deep surface, with the Semispinalis dorsi and colli and the Recti and Obliqui. The Biventer cervicis is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the ligamentum nuchas, and the Complexus from the Semispinalis colli by the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis artery, and by the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. Nerves. The Erector spinas and its subdivisions in the dorsal region are supplied by the external posterior branches of the lumbar and dorsal nerves; the Cervicalis ascendens, Transversalis colli, Trachelo-mastoid, and Spinalis cervicis, by the external posterior branches of the cervical nerves; the Complexus by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves, the suboccipital and great occipital. Fifth Layer. Semispinalis Dorsi. Extensor Coccygis. Semispinalis Colli. Intertransversales. Multifidus Spinas. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major. Rotatores Spinas. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor. Supraspinales. Obliquus Capitis Superior. Interspinals. Obliquus Capitis Inferior. Dissection. Remove the muscles of the preceding layer by dividing and turning aside the Complexus; then detaching the Spinalis and Longissimus dorsi from their attachments, dividing the Erector spinas at its connection below to the sacral and lumbar spines, and turning it outwards. The muscles filling up the interval between the spinous and transverse processes are then exposed. The Semispinalis muscles (fig. 161) connect the transverse and articular