185 KNEE-JOINT. tuberosity and inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, to the extent of about two inches. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the aponeurosis of the Sartorius, and the tendons of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the anterior portion of the tendon of the Semi- membranosus, the synovial membrane of the joint, and the inferior internal articular artery; it is intimately adherent to the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. 139.—Right Knee-joint. Anterior View. 14.0.—Right Knee-joint. Posterior View. The Long External Lateral Ligament is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the outer condyle of the femur ; below, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. Its outer surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides at its insertion into two parts, separated by the ligament. The ligament has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. The Short External Lateral Ligament is an accessory bundle of fibres, placed be- hind and parallel with the preceding ; attached, above, to the lower part of the outer condyle of the femur: below, to.the summit oi the styloid process of the fibula. This ligament is intimately connected with the capsular ligament, and has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. The Capsular Ligament consists of an exceedingly thin, but strong, fibrous membrane, which tills in the intervals left by the preceding ligaments. It is attached to the femur immediately above its articular surface ; below, to the upper border and sides of the patella and the margins of the head of the tibia and inter- articular cartilages, and is continuous behind with the posterior ligament. This membrane is strengthened by fibrous expansions, derived from the fascia lata, from the Vasti and Crureus muscles, and from the Biceps, Sartorius, and tendon of the Semimembranosus.