OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. FIRST LAYER. 194.—Muscles of the Sole of the Foot. First Layer. ligament; from the plantar fascia; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which is inserted, together with the innermost tendon of the Flexor brevis pollicis, into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. It is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface, with the Flexor brevis polli- cis, the Flexor accessorius, and the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis, the Tibialis anticus and posticus, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the articulations of the tarsus. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum (per- foratus) lies in the middle of the sole of the foot, immediately beneath the plantar fascia, with which it is firmly united. It arises by a narrow tendi- nous process, from the inner tubercle of the os calcis ; from the central part of the plantar fascia ; and from the in- termuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It passes forwards, and divides into four tendons. Oppo- site the middle of the first phalanges each tendon presents a longitudinal slit, to allow of the passage of the cor- responding tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum; the two portions form a groove for the reception of that tendon. The tendon of the short Flexor then re- unites and immediately divides a second time into two processes, which are inserted into the sides of the second phalanges. The mode of division of the tendons of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and their insertion into the phalanges, is analogous to the Flexor sublimis in the hand. It is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface, with the Flexor accessorius, the Lumbricales, the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum, and the ex- ternal plantar vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by a thin layer of fascia. The outer and inner borders are separated from the adjacent muscles by means of vertical prolongations of the plantar fascia. The Abductor Minimi Digiti lies along the outer border of the foot. It arises, by a very broad origin, from the outer tuberosity of the os calcis, from the under surface of the os calcis in front of the tubercles, from the plantar fascia, and the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. Its tendon, after gliding over a smooth facet on the under surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted with the short flexor of the little toe into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. It is supplied by the external plantar nerve.