STRUCTURE OF CEREBELLUM. 4*5 gastric nerve. The amygdala or tonsil is situated on either side of the great median fissure or valley, and projects into the fourth ventricle. The digastric lobe is situated on the outside of the tonsil, being connected in part with the pyramid. Behind the digastric is the slender lobe, which is connected with the back part of the pyramid and the commissura brevis : and more posteriorly is the inferior posterior lobe, which also joins the commissura brevis in the valley. Structure. If a vertical section is made through either hemisphere of the cerebellum, midway between its centre and the superior vermiform process, the interior will be found to consist of a central stem of white matter, which contains in its interior a dentate body.. From the surface of this central stem, a series of plates of medullary matter are detached, which, covered with grey matter, form the laminae; and from the anterior part of each hemisphere arise three large processes or peduncles, superior, middle, and inferior, by which the cerebellum is connected with the rest of the encephalon. The laminai are about ten or twelve in number, including those on both surfaces of the cerebellum, those in front being detached at a right angle, and those behind at an acute angle ; as each lamina proceeds outwards, other secondary laminae are detached from it, and, from these, tertiary laminae. The arrangement thus described gives to the cut surface of the organ a foliated appearance, to which the name arbor vitce has been given. Each lamina consists of white matter, covered externally by a layer of grey substance. The white matter of each lamina is derived partly from the central stem: in addition to which white fibres pass from one lamina to another. The grey matter resembles somewhat the cortical substance of the convolutions. It con- sists of two layers : the external one, soft and of a greyish colour; the in- ternal one, firmer and of a rust colour. The corpus dentatumr or ganglion of the cerebellum, is situated a little to the inner side of the centre of the stem of white matter. It consists of an open bag or capsule of grey matter, the section of which pre- sents a grey dentate d out- line, open at its anterior part. It is surrounded by white fibres ; white fibres are also contained in its interior,, which issue from it to join the superior peduncles. The peduncles of the cerebellum, superior, middle, and inferior, serve to connect it with the rest of the encephalon. The superior peduncles^ (processus e cerebello ad testes) connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum; they pass forwards and upwards to the testes, beneath which they ascend to the crura cerebri and optic thalami, forming part of the diverging cerebral fibres : each peduncle forms part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle, and is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by the valve of Yieussens. The peduncles are continuous behind with the folia of the inferior vermiform process, and with the white fibres in the interior of the corpus dentatum. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina, the innermost fibres of each peduncle decussate with each other, so that some fibres from the right half of the cerebellum are continued to the left half of the cerebrum.