'59 RIBS WITH VERTEBRAE. sets, i. Those which, connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies of the vertebrae ; 2. Those which connect the neck and tnbercle of the ribs with the transverse processes. i. Articulation between the Heads op the Ribs and the Bodies of the Vertebra. (Fig. 124.) These constitute a series of ginglymoid joints, formed by the articulation of the heads of the ribs with the cavities on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, connected together by the following ligaments :— Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate. Capsular. Interarticular. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament connects the anterior part of the head of each rib 124.—Costo-vertebral and Costo-transverse Articulations. with, the s{(Jes 0f the bodies of two vertebrae, and the intervertebral disc between them. It consists of three flat bundles of ligamentous fibres, which radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior fasciculus passes upwards to be connected with the body of the vertebra above ; the inferior one descends to the body of the ver- tebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least distinct, passes horizontally inwards to be attached to the inter- vertebral substance. Relations. In front, with the thoracic gan- glia of the sympathetic, the pleura, and, on the right side, with the vena azygos major ; behind, with the interarticular ligament and synovial membranes. In the first rib, which articulates with a single vertebra only, this ligament does not present a distinct division into three fasciculi ; its superior fibres, however, pass to be attached to the body of the last cervical vertebra, as well as to the body of the vertebra with which the rib articulates. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs also, which likewise articulate with a single vertebra, the division does not exist; but the upper fibres of the ligament, in each case, are connected with the vertebra above, as well as that with which the ribs articulate. The Capsular Ligament is a thin and loose ligamentous bag, which surrounds the joint between the head of the rib and the articular cavity formed by the junc- tion of the vertebrae. It is very thin, firmly connected with the anterior ligament, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation. The Interarticular Ligament is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest on the head of the rib, and by the other to the intervertebral disc. It divides the joint into two cavities, which have no communication with