422 VEINS. The superior thyroid vein commences in the substance and on the surface of the thyroid gland, by branches corresponding with those of the superior thyroid artery, and terminates in the upper part of the internal jugular vein. The middle thyroid vein collects the blood from the lower part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, and, being joined by some branches from the larynx and trachea, terminates in the lower part of the internal jugular vein. The occipital vein has been described above. The Vertebral Vein commences in the occipital region, by numerous small branches, from the deep muscles at the upper and back part of the neck, passes outwards, and enters the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, and descends by the side of the vertebral artery, in the canal formed by the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras. Emerging from the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical, it terminates at the root of the neck in the back part of the innominate vein near its origin, its mouth being guarded by a pair of valves. On the right side, it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. This vein, in the lower part of its course, occasionally divides into two branches, one of which emerges with the artery at the sixth cervical vertebra; the other escapes through the foramen in the seventh cervical. Branches. The vertebral vein receives in its course the posterior condyloid vein, muscular branches from the muscles in the prevertebral region ; dorsi-spinal veins, from the back part of the cervical portion of the spine ; meningo-rachidian veins, from the interior of the spinal canal; and lastly,- the ascending and deep cervical veins. Veins of the Diploe. The diploe of the cranial bones is channelled, in the adult, by a number of tortuous canals, which are lined by a more or less complete layer of compact tissue. The veins they contain are large and capacious, their walls being thin, and formed only of epithelium, resting upon a layer of elastic tissue, and they present, at irregular intervals, pouch-like dilatations^ or culs de sac, which serve