THE AORTA. 3^ as it is by their enlargement that a collateral circulation is established after the application of a ligature to an artery for the cure of aneurism. The smaller branches of arteries anastomose more frequently than the larger ; and between the smallest twigs, these inosculations become so numerous as to constitute a close network that pervades nearly every tissue of the body. Throughout the body generally, the larger arterial branches pursue a perfectly straight course ; but in certain situations they are tortuous : thus, the facial artery in its course over the face, and the arteries of the lips, are extremely tortuous in their course, to accommodate themselves to the movements of the parts. The uterine arteries are also tortuous, to accommodate themselves to the increase of size which the organ undergoes during pregnancy. Again, the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, previous to their entering the cavity of the skull, describe a series of curves, which are evidently intended to diminish the velocity of the current of blood, by increasing the extent of surface over which it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment which is produced by friction. The arteries are dense in structure, of considerable strength, highly elastic, and, when divided, they preserve, although empty, their cylindrical form. The minute structure of these vessels is described in the Introduction. In the description of the arteries, we shall first consider the efferent trunk of the systemic circulation, the aorta, and its branches ; and then the efferent trunk of the pulmonic circulation, the pulmonary artery. The Aoeta. The aorta (aoprtj; arteria magna) is the main trunk of a series of vessels, which, arising from the heart, convey the red oxygenated blood to every part of the body for its nutrition. This vessel commences at the upper part of the left ventricle, and, after ascending for a short distance, arches backwards to the left side, over the root of the left lung, descends within the thorax on the left side of the vertebral column, passes through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and entering the abdominal cavity, terminates, considerably diminished in size, oppo- site the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the right and left common iliac arteries. Hence its subdivision into the arch of the aorta, the thoracic aorta and the abdominal aorta, from the direction or position of its parts. Arch of the Aorta. Dissection. In order to examine the arch of the aorta, open the thorax, by dividing the cartilages of the ribs on each side of the sternum, raising this bone from below upwards, and then sawing through the sternum on a level with its articulation with the clavicle. By this means, the relations of the large vessels to the upper border of the sternum and root of the neck are kept in view. The arch of the aorta extends from the origin of the vessel at the upper part of the left ventricle to the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. At its commencement, it ascends behind the sternum, obliquely upwards and forwards towards the right side, and opposite the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, passes transversely from right to left, and from before backwards, to the left side of the third dorsal vertebra ; it then descends upon the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, at the lower border of which it takes the name of thoracic aorta. The arch of the aorta describes a curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards and to the right side ; and it is subdivided, at the points where it changes its direction, so as to be described in three portions, the ascending, transverse, and descending portions of the arch of the aorta.