THE SKELETON. go edge of that surface ; the Rhomboideus major being attached by means of a fibrous arch, connected above to the lower part of the triangular surface at the base of the spine, and below to the lower part of the posterior border. Of the three angles, the superior, formed by the junction of the superior and internal borders, is thin, smooth, rounded, somewhat inclined outwards, and gives attachment to a few fibres of the Levator anguli scapulae muscle. The inferior angle, thick and rough, is formed by the union of the vertebral and axillary borders, its outer surface affording attachment to the Teres major, and occasionally a few fibres of the Latissimus dorsi. The anterior angle is the thickest part of the bone, and forms what is called the head of the scapula. The head presents a shal- low, pyriform, articular surface, the glenoid cavity (yXrjvr), a socket), whose longest diameter is from above downwards, and its direction outwards and forwards. It is broader below than above; at its apex is attached the long tendon of the Biceps muscle. It is covered with cartilage in the recent state ; and its margins, slightly raised, give attachment to a fibro-cartilaginous structure, the glenoid ligament, by which its cavity is deepened. The neck of the scapula is the slightly depressed surface which surrounds the head; it is more distinct on the posterior than on the anterior surface, and below than above. In the latter situation, it has, arising from it, a thick prominence, the coracoid process. The 0oracoid process, so called from its fancied resemblance to a crow's beak (Kopa£, a crow), is a thick curved process of bone, which arises by a broad base from the upper part of the neck of the scapula; it ascends at first upwards and inwards ; then, becoming smaller, it changes its direction, and passes forwards and outwards. The ascending portion, flattened from before backwards, presents in front a smooth concave surface, over which passes the Subscapulars muscle. The horizontal portion is flattened from above downwards ; its upper surface is convex and irregular; its under surface is smooth; its anterior border is rough, and gives attachment to the Pectoralis minor; its posterior border is also rough for the coraco-acromial ligament, while the apex is embraced by the conjoined tendon of origin of the short head of the Biceps and Coraco-brachialis muscles. At the inner side of the root of the coracoid process is a rough depression for the attachment of the conoid ligament, and, running from it obliquely forwards and outwards on the upper surface of the horizontal portion, an elevated ridge for the attachment of the trapezoid ligament. Structure. In the head, processes, and all the thickened parts of the bone, it is cellular in structure, of a dense compact tissue in the rest of its extent. The centre and upper part of the dorsum, but especially the former, is usually so thin as to be semi-transparent; occasionally the bone is found wanting in this situation, and the adjacent muscles come into contact. Development (fig. 86). By seven centres ; one for the body, two for the coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the posterior border, and one for the inferior angle. Ossification of the body of the scapula commences about the second month of foetal life, by the formation of an irregular quadrilateral plate of bone, imme- diately behind the glenoid cavity. This plate extends itself so as to form the chief part of the bone, the spine growing up from its posterior surface about the third month. At birth, the chief part of the scapula is osseous, only the coracoid and acromion processes, the posterior border, and inferior angle, being cartilaginous. About the first year after birth, ossification takes place in the middle of the coracoid process; which usually becomes joined with the rest of the bone at the time when the other centres make their appearance. Between the fifteenth and seventeenth years, ossification of the remaining centres takes place in quick suc- cession, and in the following order: first, near the base of the acromion, and in the root of the coracoid process, the latter appearing in the form of a broad scale ; secondly, in the inferior angle and contiguous part of the posterior border; thirdly, near the extremity of the acromion; fourthly, in the posterior border. The acromion process, besides being formed of two separate nuclei, has its base