240 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. which extends over the lower part of the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx. It arises by tendinous fibres from the last bone of the sacrum, or first piece of the coccyx, and passes downwards to be inserted into the lower part of the coccyx. It is a rudiment of the Extensor muscle of the caudal vertebras which exists in some animals. The Intertransver sales are small muscles placed between the transverse processes of the vertebra?. In the cervical region, they are most developed, consisting of two rounded muscular and tendinous fasciculi, which pass between the anterior and posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of two contiguous vertebra?, separated from one another by the anterior branch of a cervical nerve, which lies in the groove between them, and by the vertebral artery and vein. In this region there are seven pairs of these muscles, the first being between the atlas and axis, and the last between the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebra?. In the dorsal region, they are least developed, consisting chiefly of rounded tendinous cords in the intertransverse spaces of the upper dorsal vertebra? ; but between the transverse processes of the lower three dorsal vertebra?, and the first lumbar, they are muscular in structure. In the lumbar region, they are four in number, and consist of a single muscular layer, which occupies the entire interspace between the transverse processes of the lower lumbar vertebra?, whilst those between the transverse processes of the upper lumbar are not attached to more than half the breadth of the process. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Major arises by a pointed tendinous origin from the spinous process of the axis, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface of bone imme- diately below it. As the muscles of the two sides ascend upwards and outwards, they leave between them a triangular space, in which are seen the Recti capitis postici minores muscles. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus, and, at its insertion, with the superior oblique. By its deep surface, with the posterior arch of the atlas, the posterior occipito-atloid ligament, and part of the occipital bone. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor, the smallest of the four muscles in this region, is of a triangular shape ; it arises by a narrow pointed tendon from the iubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the rough surface beneath the inferior curved line, nearly as far as. the foramen magnum, nearer to the middle line than the preceding. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus. By its deep surface with the posterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Obliquus Inferior, the larger of the two oblique muscles, arises from the j apex of the spinous process of the axis, and passes almost horizontally outwards, to be inserted into the apex of the transverse process of the atlas. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus, and with the pos- terior branch of the second cervical nerve which crosses it. By its deep surface, with the vertebral artery, and posterior atlo-axoid ligament. The Obliquus Superior, narrow below, wide and expanded above, arises by \ tendinous fibres from the upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, joining with the insertion of the preceding, and, passing obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the occipital bone, between the two curved lines, external to the Complexus. Between the two oblique muscles and the Rectus posticus major a triangular interval exists, in which is seen the vertebral artery, and the posterior j brauch of the suboccipital nerve. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus and trachelo-mastoid. By its deep surface, with the posterior occipito-atloid ligament. Nerves. The Semispinalis dorsi and Rotatores spina? are supplied by the internal J I posterior branches of the dorsal nerves ; the Semispinalis colli, Supraspinales, and Interspinales, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves ; the Intertransversales, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical, dorsal, and 1 I lumbar nerves; the Multifidus spina?, by the same, with the addition of the