125 FEMUR. external border and the outer lip of the linea aspera ; it is continuous above, with the outer surface of the great trochanter; below with the outer surface of the ex- ternal condyle : to its upper three-fourths is attached the outer portion of the Crureus muscle. The internal surface includes the portion of bone between the internal border and the inner hp of the linea aspera; it is continuous, above, with the lower border of the neck; below, with the inner side of the internal condyle : it is covered by the Vastus internus muscle. The Lower Extremity, larger than the upper, is of a cuboid form, flattened from before backwards, and divided by an interval presenting a smooth depression in front and a notch of considerable size behind, into two large eminences, the con- dyles (kovZvXoc, a knuckle). The interval is called the intercondyloid notch. The external condyle is the more prominent anteriorly, and is the broader both in the antero-posterior and transverse diameters. The internal condyle is the narrower, longer, and more prominent internally. This difference in the length of the two condyles is only observed when the bone is perpendicular, and depends upon the obliquity of the thigh-bones, in consequence of their separation above at the articu- lation with the pelvis. If the femur is held obliquely, the surfaces of the two con- dyles will be seen to be nearly horizontal. The two condyles are directly continuous in front, and form a smooth trochlear surface, the external border of which is more prominent, and ascends higher than the internal one. This surface articulates with the patella. It presents a median groove, which extends downwards and backwards to the intercondyloid notch; and two lateral convexities, of which the external is the broader, more prominent, and prolonged farther upwards upon the front of the outer condyle. The intercondyloid notch lodges the crucial ligaments ; it is bounded laterally by the opposed surfaces of the two condyles, and in front by the lower end of the shaft. Outer Condyle. The outer surface of the external condyle presents, a little behind its centre, an eminence, the outer tuberosity ; it is less prominent than the inner tuberosity, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the knee. Immediately beneath it, is a groove which commences at a depression a little be- hind the centre of the lower border of this surface : the depression is for the tendon of origin of the Popliteus muscle ; the groove in which this tendon is contained, is smooth, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and runs upwards and back- wards to the posterior extremity of the condyle. The inner surface of the outer condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the intercondyloid notch, and gives attachment, by its posterior part, to the anterior crucial ligament. The in- ferior surface is convex, smooth, and broader than that of the internal condyle. The posterior extremity is convex and smooth : just above the articular surface is a depression for the tendon of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, above which is the origin of the Plantaris. Inner Condyle. The inner surface of the inner condyle presents a convex emi- nence, the inner tuberosity, rough, for the attachment of the internal lateral liga- ment. Above this tuberosity, at the termination of the inner bifurcation of the linea aspera, is a tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the Adductor magnus; and behind and beneath the tubercle a depression, for the tendon of the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. The outer side of the inner condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the intercondyloid notch, and gives attachment, by its anterior part, to the posterior crucial ligament. Its inferior or articular surface is convex, and presents a less extensive surface than the external condyle. Structure. The shaft of the femur is a cylinder of compact tissue, hollowed by a large medullary canal. The cylinder is of great thickness and density in the j middle third of the shaft, where the bone is narrowest, and the medullary canal well formed ; but above and below this, the cylinder gradually becomes thinner, owing to a separation of the layers of the bone into cancelli, which project into the medullary canal and finally obliterate it, so that the upper and lower ends of the shaft, and the articular extremities more especially, consist of cancellated tissue invested by a thin compact layer.