MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 229 almost vertically, is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The lower part of this muscle separates the subclavian artery and vein: the latter being in front, and the former, with the brachial plexus, behind. Relations. In front, with the clavicle, the Subclavius, Sterno-mastoid, and Omo-hyoid muscles, the transversalis colli, and ascending cervical arteries, the subclavian vein, and the phrenic nerve. By its posterior surface, with the pleura, the subclavian artery, and brachial plexus of nerves. It is separated from the Longus colli, on the inner side, by the vertebral artery. The Scalenus Medius, the largest and longest of the three Scaleni, arises, by a broad origin, from the upper surface of the first rib, behind the groove for the subclavian artery, as far back as the tubercle; and, ascending along the side of the vertebral column, is inserted, by separate tendinous slips, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebrae. It is separated from the Scalenus anticus by the subclavian artery below, and the cervical nerves above. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Sterno-mastoid ; it is crossed by the clavicle, the Omo-hyoid muscle, and subclavian artery. To its outer side is the Levator anguli scapula?, and the Scalenus posticus muscle. The Scalenus posticus, the smallest of the three Scaleni, arises by a thin tendon from the outer surface of the second rib, behind the attachment of the Serratus magnus, and, enlarging as it ascends, is inserted, by two or three separate tendons, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower two or three cervical vertebrae. This is the most deeply placed of the three Scaleni, and is occasionally blended with the Scalenus medius. Nerves. The Rectus capitis anticus major and minor are supplied by the suboccipital and deep branches of the cervical plexus; the Rectus lateralis, by the suboccipital; and the Longus colli and Scaleni, by branches from the lower cervi- cal nerves. Actions. The Rectus anticus major and minor are the direct antagonists of the muscles at the back of the neck, serving to restore the head to its natural position after it has been drawn backwards. These muscles also serve to flex the head, and, from their obliquity, rotate it, so as to turn the face to one or the other side. The Longus colli will flex and slightly rotate the cervical portion of the spine. The Scaleni muscles, taking their fixed point from below, draw down the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, bending the spinal column to one or the other side. If the muscles of both sides act, the spine will be kept erect. When they take their fixed point from above, they elevate the first and second ribs, and are, therefore, inspiratory muscles. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OP THE TRUNK. The Muscles of the Trunk may be arranged in four groups ; the muscles of the Back, of the Abdomen, of the Thorax, and of the Perinaeum. Muscles of the Back. The muscles of the Back are very numerou layers :— First Later. , and may be subdivided into five Trapezius. Latissimus dorsi. Second Later. Levator anguli scapulae. Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. Third Later. Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior. Splenius capitis. Splenius colli. Fourth Later. Sacral and lumbar regions. Erector spinae.