262 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. tipper border, with the Infraspinatus. By its lower border, with the Teres major, from which it is separated anteriorly by the long head of the Triceps. The Teres Major is a broad and somewhat flattened muscle, which arises from the dorsal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula, and from the fibrous septa interposed between it and the Teres minor and Infraspinatus; the fibres are directed upwards and outwards, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in length, which is inserted into the posterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle, at its insertion into the humerus, lies behind that of the Latissimus dorsi, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. delations. By its posterior surface, with the integument, from which it is separated, internally, by the Latissimus dorsi; and externally, by the long head of the Triceps. By its anterior surface, with the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, Coraco-brachialis, short head of the Biceps, the axillary vessels, and brachial plexus of nerves. Its upper border is at first in relation with the Teres minor, from which it is afterwards separated by the long head of the Triceps. Its lower border forms, in conjunction with the Latissimus dorsi, part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. Nerves. The Supra and Infraspinatus muscles are supplied by the supra- scapular nerve ; the Teres minor, by the circumflex, and the Teres major, by the subscapular. Actions. The Supraspinatus assists the Deltoid in raising the arm from the side; its action must, therefore, be very feeble, from the very disadvantageous manner in which the force is applied. The Infraspinatus and Teres minor rotate the head of the humerus outwards ; when the arm is raised, they assist in retaining it in that position, and carrying it backwards. One of the most important uses of these three muscles is the great protection they afford to the shoulder-joint, the Supraspinatus supporting it above, and preventing displacement of the head of the humerus upwards, whilst the Infraspinatus and Teres minor protect it behind, and prevent dislocation backwards. The Teres major assists the Latissimus dorsi in drawing the humerus downwards and backwards when previously raised, and rotating it inwards; when the arm is fixed, it may assist the Pectoral and Latis- simus dorsi muscles in drawing the trunk forwards. Anterior Humeral Region. (Fig. 170.) Coraco-Brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis Anticus. Dissection.—The arm being placed on the table, with the front surface uppermost, make a vertical incision through the integument along the middle line, from the middle of the in- terval between the folds of the axilla, to about two inches below the elbow-joint, where it should be joined by a transverse incision, extending from the inner to the outer side of the forearm ; the two flaps being reflected on either side, the fascia should be examined. The deep fascia of the arm, continuous with that covering the shoulder and front of the great Pectoral muscle, is attached, above, to the clavicle, acromion, and spine of the scapula; it forms a thin, loose, membranous sheath investing the muscles of the arm, sending down septa between them, and composed of fibres disposed in a circular or spiral direction, and connected together by vertical fibres. It differs in thickness at different parts, being thin over the Biceps, but thicker where it covers the Triceps, and over the cond}des of the humerus : it is strengthened by fibrous aponeuroses, derived from the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi, on the inner side, and from the Deltoid externally. On either side it gives off a strong intermuscular septum, which is attached to the condyloid ridge and condyle of the humerus. These septa serve to separate the muscles of the anterior from those of the posterior brachial region. The external intermuscular septum extends from the lower part of the anterior bicipital ridge, along the external condyloid ridge, to the outer condyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Deltoid ; gives attachment to the Triceps behind, to the Brachialis anticus, Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior, in front; and is perforated by the musculo-spiral nerve, and superior profunda artery. The internal intermuscular