400 ARTERIES. Sartorius, internally by the Adductor longns, and above by Poupart's ligament. The floor of this space is formed from without inwards by the Iliacus, Psoas, Pectineus, Adductor longus, and a small part of the Adductor brevis muscles; and it is divided into two nearly equal parts by the femoral vessels, which extend from the middle of its base to its apex ; the artery giving off in this situation its cutaneous and profunda branches, the vein receiving the deep femoral and internal saphenous veins. In this space the femoral artery rests on the inner margin of the Psoas mus- -Surgical Anatomy of the Femoral Artery. 231.- cle, which separates it from the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. The artery in this situation has in front of it filaments from the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and branches from the anterior crural, one of which is usually of considerable size; behind the artery is the branch to the Pectineus from the anterior crural. The femoral vein lies at its inner side, between the margins of the Pectineus and Psoas muscles. The anterior crural nerve lies about half an inch to the outer side of the femoral artery, deeply imbedded between the Iliacus and Psoas muscles. The femoral artery and vein are en- closed in a strong fibrous sheath, formed by fibrous and cellular tissue, and by a process of fascia sent in- wards, from the fascia lata; the vessels are separated, however, from one another by thin fibrous partitions. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral ar- tery is more deeply seated, being covered by the in- tegument, the superficial and deep fascia, and the Sartorius, and is contained in an aponeurotic canal, formed by a dense fibrous band, which extends trans- versely from the Vastus internus to the tendons of the Adductor longus and magnus muscles. In this part of its course it lies in a depression, bounded externally by Adductor longus and Adductor magnus. Supor SafihencusMervs Anagtomeiiea,JXag7tc, -Anaftomotica-Mayna lArticular Arxter. Tibial' Jti the Vastus internus, The femoral vein lies internally by the on the outer side