ARTERIES. 353 The posterior scapular, the continuation of the transversalis colli, passes beneath the Levator anguli scapulae to the superior angle of the scapula, and descends along the posterior border of that bone as far as the inferior angle, where it anastomoses with the subscapular branch of the axillary. In its course it is 216.—The Scapular and Circumflex Arteries. covered by the Rhomboid muscles, supplying these, the Latissimus dorsi and Trapezius, and anastomosing with the suprascapular and subscapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Peculiarities. The superficial cervical frequently arises as a separate branch from the thyroid axis; and the posterior scapular, from the third, more rarely from the second, part of the subclavian. The Internal Mammary arises from the under surface of the first portion of the subclavian artery, opposite the thyroid axis. It descends behind the clavicle, to the inner surface of the anterior wall of the chest, resting upon the costal cartilages, a short distance from the margin of the sternum ; and, at the interval between the sixth and seventh cartilages, divides into two branches, the musculo- phrenic, and superior epigastric. At its origin, it is covered by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, and crossed by the phrenic nerve. In the upper part of the thorax, it lies upon the costal cartilages, and internal Intercostal muscles in front, and is covered by the pleura behind. At the lower part of the thorax, the Triangularis sterni separates the artery from the pleura. It is accompanied by two veins, which join at the upper part of the thorax into a single trunk. The branches of the internal mammary are, Comes nervi phrenici (Superior phrenic). Anterior Intercostal. Mediastinal. Perforating. Pericardiac. Musculo-phrenic. Sternal. Superior epigastric. The comes nervi phrenici {superior phrenic), is a long slender branch, which accompanies the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the Diaphragm, to which it is distributed; anastomosing with the other phrenic arteries from the internal mammary, and abdominal aorta. The mediastinal branches are small vessels, which are distributed to the areolar tissue in the anterior mediastinum, and the remains of the thymus gland.