;o6 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. In the foetus, the ovaries are situated, like the testes, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys. They may be distinguished from those bodies at an early period by their elongated and flattened form, and by their position, which is at first oblique, and then nearly transverse. They gradually descend into the pelvis. The Ligament of the Ovary is a rounded cord, which extends from each superior angle of the uterus to the inner extremity of the ovary ; it consists of fibrous tissue, and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus. The Bound Ligaments are two rounded cords, between four and five inches in length, situated between the layers of the broad ligament in front of and below the Fallopian tube. Commencing on each side at the superior angle of the uterus, this ligament passes forwards and outwards through the internal abdominal ring, along the inguinal canal to the labia majora, in which it becomes lost. The round ligament consists of areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves, besides a dense bundle of fibrous tissue, and muscular fibres prolonged from the uterus, enclosed in a dupli- cature of peritoneum, which, in the foetus, is prolonged in the form of a tubular process for a short distance into the inguinal canal. This process is called the canal of Nuck. It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes remains pervious even in advanced life. It is analogous to the peritoneal pouch which accompanies the descent of the testis. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are the ovarian from the aorta. They anastomose with the termination of the uterine arteries, and enter the attached border of the ovary. The veins follow the course of the arteries ; they form a plexus near the ovary, the pampiniform plexus. The nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus, the Fallopian tube receiving a branch from one of the uterine nerves. Mammary Glands. The mamince, or breasts, are accessory glands of the generative system, which secrete the milk. They exist in the male as well as in the female ; but in the former only in a rudimentary state, unless their growth is excited by peculiar circumstances. In the female, they are two large hemispherical eminences situated towards the lateral aspect of the pectoral region, corresponding to the interval between the third and sixth or seventh ribs, and extending from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Their weight and dimensions differ at different periods of life, and in different individuals. Before puberty they are of small size, but enlarge as the generative organs become more completely developed. They increase during pregnancy, and especially after delivery, and become atrophied in old age. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. Their base is nearly circular, flattened or slightly concave, and having their long diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axilla ; they are separated from the Pectoral muscles by a thin layer of superficial fascia. The outer surface of the mamma is convex, and presents, just below the centre, a small conical prominence, the topple (mammilla). The surface of the nipple is dark-coloured, and surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the virgin, the areola is of a delicate rosy hue ; about the second month of impregnation, it enlarges, and acquires a darker tinge, which increases as pregnancy advances, becoming, in some cases, a dark brown or even black colour. This colour diminishes as soon as lactation is over, but is never entirely lost through life. These changes in the colour of the areola are of extreme importance in forming a conclusion in a case of suspected pregnancy. The nipple is a cylindrical or conical eminence, capable of undergoing a sort of erection from mechanical excitement. It is of a pink or brownish hue, its surface wrinkled and provided with papillae, and its summit perforated by numerous Orifices, the apertures of the lactiferous ducts. Near the base of the nipple, and j upon the surface of the areola, are numerous sebaceous glands, which become much j