MUSCLES AND FASCLZE. 264 relation with the Coraco-brachialis, the brachial vessels, and median nerve; its outer border, with the Deltoid and Supinator longus. The Brachialis Anticus is a broad muscle, which covers the elbow-joint and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It is somewhat compressed from before backward, and is broader in the middle than at either extremity. It arises from the lower half of the outer and inner surfaces of the shaft of the humerus; and commences above at the insertion of the Deltoid, which it embraces by two angular processes. Its origin extends below, to within an inch of the margin of the arti- cular surface, and is limited on each side by the external and internal borders of the shaft of the humerus. It also arises from the intermuscular septa on each side, but more extensively from the inner than the outer. Its fibres converge to a thick tendon, which is inserted into a rough depression on the under surface of the coronoid process of the ulna, being received into an interval between two fleshy slips of the Flexor digitorum profundus. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Biceps, the brachial vessels, mus- culo-cutaneous, and median nerves. By its posterior surface, with the humerus and front of the elbow-joint. By its inner border, with the Triceps, ulnar nerve, and Pronator radii teres, from which it is separated by the intermuscular septum. By its outer border, with the musculo-spiral nerve, radial recurrent artery, the Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Nerves. The muscles of this group are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Brachialis anticus usually receives an additional filament from the musculo- spiral. Actions. The Coraco-brachialis draws the humerus forwards and inwards, and at the same time assists in elevating it towards the scapula. The Biceps and Brachialis anticus are flexors of the forearm; the former muscle is also a supina- tor, and serves to render tense the fascia of the forearm by means of the broad aponeurosis given off from its tendon. When the forearm is fixed, the Biceps and Brachialis anticus flex the arm upon the forearm, as is seen in efforts of climbing. The Brachialis anticus forms an important defence to the elbow-joint. Posterior Humeral Region. Triceps. Subanconeus. The Triceps (fig. 171) is situated on the back of the arm, extending the entire length of the posterior surface of the humerus. It is of large size, and divided above into three parts; hence its name. These three portions have been named, (1) the middle, scapular, or long head, (2) the external, or long humeral, and (3) the interna], or short humeral head. The middle or scapular head arises, by a flattened tendon, from a rough trian- gular depression, immediately below the glenoid cavity, being blended at its upper part with the capsular and glenoid ligaments ; the muscular fibres pass downwards between the two other portions of the muscle, and join with them in the common tendon of insertion. The external head arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, between the insertion of the Teres minor and the upper part of the musculo-spiral groove, from the external border of the humerus and the external intermuscular septum : the fibres from this origin converge towards the common tendon of insertion. The internal head arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, below the groove for the musculo-spiral nerve, commencing above, narrow and pointed, below the insertion of the Teres major, and extending to within an inch of the trochlear surface : it also arises from the internal border of the humerus and internal intermuscular septum. The fibres of this portion of the muscle are directed, some downwards to the olecranon, whilst others converge to the common tendon of insertion.