663 TRACHEA. The first cartilage is broader than the rest, and sometimes divided at one end: it is connected by fibrons membrane with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, with which, or with the succeeding cartilage, it is sometimes blended. The last cartilage is thick and broad in the middle, in consequence of its lower border being prolonged downwards, and, at the same time, curved backwards, at the point of bifurcation of the trachea. It terminates on each side in an imper- fect ring, which encloses the commencement of the bronchi. The cartilage above the last, is somewhat broader than the rest at its centre. Two or more of the cartilages often unite, partially or completely, and are sometimes bifurcated at their extremities. They are highly elastic, and seldom ossify, even in advanced life. In the right bronchus, the cartilages vary in number from six to eight; in the left, from nine to twelve. They are shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. The Muscular Fibres are disposed in two layers, longitudinal and transverse. The longitudinal fibres are the most external, and arise by minute tendons from the termination of the tracheal cartilages, and from the fibrous membrane. The transverse fibres (trachealis muscle, Todd and Bowman), the most internal, form a thin layer, which extends transversely between the ends of the cartilages, at the posterior part of the trachea. The muscular fibres are of the unstriped variety. The Elastic Fibres are situated beneath the mucous membrane, enclosing the entire cylinder of the trachea; they are most abundant at its posterior part, where they are collected into longitudinal bundles. The Mucous Membrane lining the tube is covered with columnar ciliated epi- thelium. It is continuous above with that of the larynx, and below with that of the lungs. The Tracheal Glands are found in great abundance at the posterior part of the trachea. They are small, flattened, ovoid bodies, placed between the fibrous and muscular coats, each furnished with an excretory duct, which opens on the surface of the mucous membrane. Some glands of smaller size are also found at the sides of the trachea, between the layers of fibrous tissue connecting the rings, and others immediately beneath the mucous coat. The secretion from these glands Serves to lubricate the inner surface of the trachea. Vessels and Nerves. The trachea is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid arteries. The veins terminate in the thyroid venous plexus. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and its recurrent branches, and from the sympathetic. Surgical Anatomy. The air-passage may be opened in three different situations ; through the crico-thyroid membrane (laryngotomy), through the cricoid cartilage and upper ring of the trachea (laryngo-tracheotomy), or through the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid gland (tracheotomy). The student should, therefore, carefully consider the relative anatomy of the air-tube in each of these situations. Beneath the integument of the laryngotracheal region, on either side of the median line, are the two anterior jugular veins. Their size and position vary ; there is nearly always one, and frequently two : at the lower part of the neck they diverge, passing beneath the Sterno- mastoid muscles, and are frequently connected by a transverse communicating branch. These veins should, if possible, always be avoided in any operation on the larynx or trachea. If cut through, considerable haemorrhage occurs. Beneath the cervical fascia are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the conti- guous edges of the former being near the median line ; and beneath these muscles the following parts are met with, from above downwards: the thyroid cartilage, the crico- thyroid membrane, the cricoid cartilage, the trachea, and the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The crico-thyroid space is very superficial, and may be easily felt beneath the skin as a depression, about an inch below the pomum Adami; it is crossed transversely by a small artery, the crico-thyroid, the division of which is seldom accompanied by any troublesome haemorrhage. The isthmus of the thyroid gland usually crosses the second and third rings of the trachea; above it, is found a large transverse communicating branch between the superior thyroid veins, and the isthmus is covered by a venous plexus, formed between the thyroid veins, of opposite sides. On the sides of the thyroid gland, and below it, the veins converge to a single median vessel, or to two trunks which descend along the median line of the front of