SURGICAL ANATOMY. The Superior Carotid Triangle is bounded, behind, by the Sterno-mastoid; below, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; and above, by the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle. Its floor is formed by parts of the Thyro-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and the inferior and middle Constrictor muscles of the pharynx; and it is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which, are branches of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. This space contains the upper part of the common carotid artery, which bifurcates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage into the external and internal carotid. These vessels are occasionally somewhat concealed from view by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which overlaps them. The ex- ternal and internal carotids lie side by side, the external being the most anterior of the two. The following branches of the external carotid are also met with in this space : the superior thyroid, running forwards and downwards; the lingual directly forwards ; the facial, forwards and upwards; the occipital, backwards; and the ascending pharyngeal directly upwards on the inner side of the internal carotid. The veins met with are : the internal jugular, which lies on the outer side of the common and internal carotid arteries ; and veins corresponding to the above-mentioned branches of the external carotid, viz., the superior thyroid, the lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, and sometimes the occipital; all of which accompany their corresponding arteries, and terminate in the internal jugular. The nerves in this space are the following :—In front of the sheath of the common carotid is the descendens noni. The hypoglossal nerve crosses both carotids above, curving round the occipital artery at its origin. "Within the sheath, between the artery and vein, and behind both, is the pneumogastric nerve ; behind the sheath, the sympathetic. On the outer side of the vessels, the spinal accessory nerve runs for a short distance before it pierces the Sterno-mastoid muscle ; and on the inner side of the internal carotid, just below the hyoid bone, may be seen the superior laryngeal nerve ; and still more inferiorly, the external laryngeal nerve. The upper part of the larynx and lower part of the pharynx are also found in the front part of this space. The Submaxillary Triangle corresponds to the part of the neck immediately beneath the body of the jaw. It is bounded, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, the parotid gland, and mastoid process ; behind, by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles; in front, by the middle fine of the neck. The floor of this space is formed by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Hyo-glossus muscles; and it is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia ; ramifying between which are branches of the facial and ascending filaments of the superficial cervical nerve. This space contains, in front, the submaxillary gland, imbedded in the substance of which are the facial artery and vein, and their glandular branches ; beneath this gland, on the surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, is the submental artery, and the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve. The back part of this space is separated from the front part by the stylo-maxillary ligament; it contains the external carotid artery, ascending deeply in the substance of the parotid gland; this vessel here lies in front of, and superficial to, the internal carotid, being crossed by the facial nerve, and gives off in its course the posterior auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary branches ; more deeply is the internal carotid, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumo- gastric nerve, separated from the external carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the glossopharyngeal nerve.* Posterior Triangular Space. The posterior triangular space is bounded, in front by the Sterno-mastoid * The same remark will apply to this triangle as was made about the inferior carotid triangle. The structures enumerated, as contained in the back part of the space, lie, strictly speaking, beneath the muscles which form the posterior boundary of the triangle; but as it ia very important to bear in mind their close relation to the parotid gland and its boundaries (on account of the frequency of surgical operations on this gland) all these parts are spoken of together.