MUSCLES AND FAS CUE. inner extremity of the eyebrow, beneath the Oecipito-frontalis and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscles. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge ; from whence its fibres pass upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis, opposite the middle of the orbital arch. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Oecipito-frontalis and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscles. By its posterior surface, with the frontal bone and supra- trochlear nerve. The Levator Palpebral will be described with the muscles of the orbital region. The Tensor Tarsi is a small thin muscle, about three lines in breadth and six in length, situated at the inner side of the orbit, behind the tendo oculi. It arises from the crest and adjacent part of the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slips, which cover the lachrymal canals, and are inserted into the tarsal cartilages near the puncta lachrymalia. Its fibres appear to be continuous with those of the palpebral portion of the Orbi- cularis ; it is occasionally very indistinct. Nerves. The Orbicularis palpebrarum Corrugator supercilii, and Tensor tarsi, are supplied by the facial nerve. Actions. The Orbicularis palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of the eyelids. The palpebral portion acts involuntarily in closing the lids, and independently of the orbicular portion, which is subject to the will. When the entire muscle is brought into action, the integument of the forehead, temple, and cheek is drawn inwards towards the inner angle of the eye, and the eyelids are firmly closed. The Levator palpebra3 is the direct antagonist of this muscle; it raises the upper eyelid and exposes the globe. The Corrugator supercilii draws the eyebrow downwards and inwards, producing the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. This muscle may be regarded as the principal agent in the expression of grief. The Tensor tarsi draws the eyelids and the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards, and compresses them against the surface of the globe of the eye ; thus placing them in the most favourable situation for receiving the tears. It serves, also, to com- press the lachrymal sac. 4. Orbital Region. (Fig. 149.) Levator Palpebrse. Rectus Internus. Rectus Superior. Rectus Externus. Rectus Inferior. Obliquus Superior. Obliquus Inferior. Dissection. To open the cavity of the orbit, remove the skull-cap and brain; then saw through the frontal bone at the inner extremity of the supraorbital ridge, and externally at its junction with the malar. Break in pieces the thin roof of the orbit by a few slight blows of the hammer and take it away; drive forward the superciliary portion of the frontal bone by a smart stroke, but do not remove it, as that would destroy the pulley of the Obliquus superior. When the fragments are cleared away, the periosteum of the orbit will be exposed: this being removed, together with the fat which fills the cavity of the orbit, the several muscles of this region can be examined. The dissection will be facilitated by distending the globe of the eye. In order to effect this, puncture the optic nerve near the eyeball, with a curved needle, and push the needle onwards into the globe ; insert the point of a blow-pipe through this aperture, and force a little air into the cavity of the eyeball; then apply a ligature round the nerve, so as to prevent the air escaping. The globe being now drawn forwards, the muscles will be put upon the stretch. The Levator Palpebrce Superioris is thin, flat, and triangular in shape. It arises from the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, immediately in front of the optic foramen ; and is inserted, by a broad aponeurosis, into the upper border of the superior tarsal cartilage. At its origin, it is narrow and tendinous ; but soon becomes broad and fleshy, and finally terminates in a broad aponeurosis. Relations. By its upper surface, with the frontal nerve and artery, the peri- osteum of the orbit; and, in front, with the inner surface of the broad tarsal ligament. By its under surface, with the Superior rectus ; and in the lid, with the conjunctiva. A small branch of the third nerve enters its under surface.