THE SKELETON. 74 nervous canals and the groove for the naso-palatine nerve, and is traversed by sutures connecting the bones of which it is formed. The outer wall (fig. 66) is formed, in front, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones; in the middle, by the ethmoid and inner surface of the superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bones; behind, by the vertical plate of the palate bone, and the internal pterygoid process of the sphenoid. This surface presents three irregular longitudinal passages, or meatuses, formed between three horizontal plates of bone that spring from it; they are termed the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses of the nose. The superior meatus, the smallest of the three, is situated at the upper and back part of each nasal fossa, occupying the posterior third of the outer wall. It is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bones, and has opening into it two foramina, the spheno-palatine at the back of its outer wall, the posterior ethmoidal cells at the front part of the upper wall. The opening of the sphenoidal sinuses is usually at the upper and back part of the nasal fossae, immediately behind the superior turbinated bone. The middle meatus is situated between the middle and inferior turbinated bones, and occupies the posterior two-thirds of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. It presents two apertures. In front is the orifice of the infundibulum, by which the middle meatus communicates with the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through these with the frontal sinuses. At the centre of the outer wall is the orifice of the antrum, which varies somewhat as to its exact position in different skulls. The inferior meatus, the largest of the three, is the space between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. It extends along the entire length of the outer wall of the nose, is broader in front than behind, and presents anteriorly the lower orifice of the lachrymal canal. Os .Hyoides. The Hyoid bone is named from its resemblance to the Greek Upsilon; it is also called the lingual hone, because it supports the tongue, and gives attachment to its numerous muscles. It is a bony arch, shaped like a horse-shoe, and con- sisting of five segments, a body, two greater cornua, and two lesser cornua. The Body forms the central part of the bone, and is of a quadrilateral form: its anterior surface (fig. 68) convex, directed forwards and upwards, is divided into two parts by a verti- cal ridge, which descends along the median line, and is crossed at right angles by a horizontal ridge, so that this surface is divided into four muscular depressions. At the point of meeting of these two lines is a prominent elevation, the tubercle. The portion above the horizontal ridge is directed up- wards, and is sometimes described as the superior border. The an- terior surface gives attachment to the Genio-hyoid in the greater part of its extent; above, to the Genio-hyo-glossus; below, to the Mylo-hyoid, Stylo-hyoid, and aponeurosis of the Digastric j and between these to part of the Hyo-glossus. The posterior surface is smooth, concave, directed backwards and downwards, and separated from the epi- glottis by the thyro-hyoid membrane, and by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. The superior border is rounded, and gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid membrane, and part of the Genio-hyo-glossi muscles. The inferior border gives attachment, in front, to the Sterno-hyoid; behind, to part of the Thyro-hyoid, and to the Omo- hyoid at its junction with the great cornu. The lateral surfaces are small, oval, convex facets, covered with cartilage for articulation with the greater cornua. 68.—Hyoid Bone. Anterior Surface, (enlarged).