302 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. The Extensor Proprius Pollicis is a thin, elongated, and flattened muscle, situated between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the anterior surface of the fibula for about the middle two-fourths of its extent, its origin being internal to that of the Extensor longus digitorum; it also arises from the interosseous membrane to a similar extent. The fibres pass downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior border of the muscle, passes through a distinct compartment in the annular ligament, crosses the anterior Tibial vessels near the bend of the ankle, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Opposite the metatarsophalangeal articulation, the tendon gives off a thin prolongation on each side, which covers the surface of the joint. Relations. By its anterior border, with the deep fascia, and the anterior annular ligament. By its posterior border, with the interosseous membrane, fibula, tibia, ankle joint, and Extensor brevis digitorum. By its outer side, with the Extensor longus digitorum above, the dorsalis pedis vessels and anterior tibial nerve below. By its inner side, with the Tibialis anticus and the anterior tibial vessels above. The Extensor Longus Digitorum is an elongated, flattened, semipenniform muscle, situated the most externally of all the muscles on the forepart of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia ; from the upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the interosseous membrane, and deep fascia; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the Tibialis anticus on the inner, and the Peronei on the outer side. The muscle terminates in three tendons, which pass through a canal in the annular ligament, with the Peroneus tertius, run across the dorsum of the foot, and are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes, the innermost tendon having subdivided into two. The mode in which the tendons are inserted is the following : Each tendon opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation is joined, on its outer side, by the tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum (except the fourth), and receives a fibrous expansion from the Interossei and Lumbricales; it then spreads into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx : this apo- neurosis, at the articulation of the first with the second phalanx, divides into three slips, a middle one, which is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and two lateral slips, which, after uniting on the dorsal surface of the second phalanx, are continued onwards, to be inserted into the base of the third. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia and the annular ligament. By its posterior surface, with the fibula, interosseous membrane, ankle joint, and Extensor brevis digitorum. By its inner side, with the Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its outer side, with the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Peroneus Tertius is a part of the Extensor longus digitorum, and might be described as its fifth tendon. The fibres belonging to this tendon arise from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula, on its outer side ; from the lower part of the interosseous membrane; and from an intermuscular septum between the Peroneus tertius and the Peroneus brevis. The tendon, after passing through the same canal in the annular ligament as the Extensor longus digitorum, is in- serted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, on its dorsal surface. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Nerves. These muscles are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Actions. The Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius are the direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg ; the former muscle, from the obliquity in the direction of its tendon, raises the inner border of the foot; and the latter, acting with the Peroneus brevis and longus, will draw the outer border of the foot upwards, and the sole outwards. The Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius pollicis extend the phalanges of the toes, and, continuing their action, flex the tarsus upon the leg. Taking their fixed point from below, in the erect posture, all these muscles serve to fix the bones of the leg in the perpendicular position, and give increased strength to the ankle joint.