655 CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF LARYNX. The Arytenoid Cartilages are so called from the resemblance they bear, when approximated, to the month of a pitcher (apvraiva, a pitcher). They are two in nnmber, and situated at the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each cartilage is pyramidal in form, and presents for examination three surfaces, a base, and an apex. The posterior surface is triangular, smooth, concave, and lodges part of the Arytenoid muscle. The anterior surface, somewhat convex and rough, gives attachment to the Thyro-arytenoid muscle, and to the false vocal cord. The internal surface is narrow, smooth, and flattened, covered by mucous membrane, and lies almost in apposition with the cartilage of the opposite side. The base of each cartilage is broad, and presents a concave smooth surface, for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. Of its three angles, the external is short, rounded, and prominent, receiving the insertion of the posterior and lateral Crico- arytenoid muscles. The anterior angle, also prominent, but more pointed, gives attachment to the true vocal cord. The apex of each cartilage is pointed, curved backwards and inwards, and surmounted by a small conical-shaped, cartilaginous nodule, corniculum laryngis (cartilage of Santorini). This cartilage is sometimes united to the arytenoid, and serves to prolong it backwards and inwards. To it is attached the aryteno- epiglottidean fold. The cuneiform cartilages (cartilages of Wrisberg) are two small, elongated, cartilaginous bodies, placed one on each side, in the fold of mucous membrane which extends from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage to the side of the epiglottis (aryteno-epiglottidean fold) ; they give rise to small whitish elevations on the inner surface of the mucous membrane, just in front of the arytenoid cartilages. The epiglottis is a thin lamella of fibro-cartilage, of a yellowish colour, shaped like a leaf, and placed behind the tongue in front of the superior opening of the larynx. During respiration, its direction is vertically upwards, its free extremity curving forwards towards the base of the tongue ; but when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue during deglutition, it is carried downwards and backwards, so as to completely close the opening of the larynx. Its free extremity is broad and rounded; its attached end is long and narrow, and connected to the receding angle between the two alae of the thyroid cartilage, just below the median notch, by a long, narrow, ligamentous band, the thyro- epiglottic ligament. It is also connected to the posterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone, by an elastic ligamentous band, the hyo-epiglottic ligament. Its anterior or lingual surface is curved forwards towards the tongue, and covered by mucous membrane, which is reflected on to the sides and base of the organ, forming a median and two lateral folds, the glosso-epiglottidean ligaments. Its posterior or laryngeal surface is smooth, concave from side to side, convex from above downwards, and covered by mucous membrane; when this is removed, the surface of the cartilage is seen to be studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in little pits upon its surface. To its sides the aryteno- epiglottidean folds are attached. Structure. The epiglottis, cuneiform cartilages, and cornicula laryngis are composed of yellow cartilage, which shows little tendency to ossification; but the other cartilages resemble in structure the costal cartilages, becoming more or less ossified in old age. Ligaments. The ligaments of the larynx are extrinsic, i.e. those connecting the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides ; and intrinsic, those which connect the several cartilaginous segments to each other. The ligaments connecting the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides are three in number ; the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the two lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments. The thyro-hyoid membrane is a broad, fibro-elastic, membranous layer, attached