112 THE SKELETON. tlie base of the first metacarpal, commence to ossify, and they unite about the twentieth year. The Phalanges are each developed by two centres: one for the shaft, and one for the base. Ossification commences in the shaft, in all three rows, at about the sixth week, and gradually involves the whole of the bone excepting the upper extremity. Ossification of the base commences in the first row between the third and fourth years, and a year later in those of the second and third rows. The two centres become united in each row, between the eighteenth and twentieth years. Op the Lower Exteemitt. The Lower Extremity consists of three segments, the thigh, leg, and foot, which correspond to the arm, forearm, and hand in the upper extremity. It is connected to the trunk through the os innominatum, or haunch, which is homologous with the shoulder. The Os Innominatum. The Os Innominatum, or nameless bone, so called from bearing no resemblance to any known object, is a large irregular-shaped bone, which, with its fellow of the opposite side, forms the sides and anterior wall of the pelvic cavity. In young subjects it consists of three separate parts, which meet and form the large cup-like cavity, situated near the middle of the outer side of the bone; and, although in the adult these have become united, it is usual to describe the bone as divisible into three portions—the ilium, the ischium, and the pubes. The ilium, so called from its supporting the flank (ilia), is the superior broad and expanded portion which runs upwards from the upper and back part of the acetabulum, and forms the prominence of the hip. The ischium (la^iov, the hip) is the inferior and strongest portion of the bone; it proceeds downwards from the acetabulum, expands into a large tuberosity, and then, curving upwards, forms with the descending ramus of the pubes a large aperture, the obturator foramen. The pubes is that portion which runs horizontally inwards from the inner side of the acetabulum for about two inches, then makes a sudden bend, and descends to the same extent: it forms the front of the pelvis, supports the external organs of generation, and has received its name from being covered with hair. The Ilium presents for examination two surfaces, an external and an internal, a crest, and two borders, an anterior and a posterior. External Surface or Dorsum of the Ilium (fig. 97). The back part of this surface is directed backwards, downwards, and outwards; its front part forwards, downwards, and outwards. It is smooth, convex in front, deeply concave behind; bounded above by the crest, below by the upper border of the acetabulum; in front and behind, by the anterior and posterior borders. This surface is crossed in an arched direction by three semicircular lines, the superior, middle, and inferior curved fines. The superior curved fine, the shortest of the three, commences at the crest, about two inches in front of its posterior extremity; it is at first dis- tinctly marked, but as it passes downwards and outwards to the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it terminates, it becomes less marked, and is often altogether lost. The rough surface included between this fine and the crest, affords attachment to part of the Gluteus maximus above, a few fibres of the Pyriformis below. The middle curved line, the longest of the three, commences at the crest, about an inch behind its anterior extremity, and, taking a curved direction down- wards and backwards, terminates at the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch. The space between the middle and superior curved lines and the crest is concave, and affords attachment to the Gluteus medius muscle. Near the central part of this line may often be observed the orifice of a nutrient foramen. The inferior curved line, the least distinct of the three, commences in front at the upper part of the anterior inferior spinous process, and taking a curved direction backwards