ARTICULATIONS. i68 cartilages. This structure may be easily demonstrated, by making a vertical section of the symphysis pubis near its posterior surface. The Obturator Ligament is more properly regarded as analogous to the mus- cular fascia?, with which it will therefore be described. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The articulations of the Upper Extremity may be arranged in the following groups :—I. Sterno-clavicular articulation. II. Scapulo-clavicular articulation. III. Ligaments of the Scapula. IV. Shoulder-joint. V. Elbow-joint. VI. Radio-ulnar articulations. VII. Wrist-joint. VIII. Articulations of the Carpal bones. IX. Carpo-metacarpal articulations. X. Metacarpophalangeal articulations. XI. Articulations of the Phalanges. 130.—Sterno-Clavicular Articulation. Anterior View. I. Sterno-Clavicular Articulation. (Fig. 130.) The Sterno-Clavicular is an arthrodial joint. The parts entering into its formation are the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper and lateral part of the first piece of the sternum, and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surface of the clavicle is much longer than that of the sternum, and invested with a layer of cartilage,* which is considerably thicker than that on the latter bone. The ligaments of this joint are the Anterior Sterno-Clavicular. Inter-Clavicular. Posterior Sterno-Clavicular. Costo-Clavicular (rhomboid). Interarticular Fibro- Cartilage. The Anterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is a broad band of fibres, which covers the anterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the upper and front part of the inner extremity of the clavicle; and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached, below, to the front and upper part of the first piece of the sternum. This ligament is covered in front by the sternal portion of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid and the integument • behind, it is in relation with the inter- articular fibro-cartilage and the two synovial membranes. The Posterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is a similar band of fibres, which covers the posterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the pos- * According to Bruch, the sternal end of the clavicle is covered by a tissue, which is rather fibrous than cartilaginous in structure.