456 NERVOUS SYSTEM. The dura mater of the cord is not adherent to the 253.—The Spinal Cord and its bones of the spinal canal, which have an independent periosteum. It does not send partitions into the fissures of the cord, as in the brain. Its fibrous laminae do not separate, to form venous sinuses, as in the brain. Structure. The dura mater consists of white fibrous tissue, arranged in bands which intersect one another. It is sparingly supplied with vessels ; and no nerves have as yet been traced into it. The Arachnoid is exposed by slitting up the dura mater, and reflecting that membrane to either side (fig. 253). It is a thin, delicate, serous membrane, which invests the outer surface of the cord, and is then reflected upon the inner surface of the dura mater, to which it is intimately adherent. Above, it is continuous with the cerebral arachnoid; below, it is reflected on the various nerves, so that its parie- tal and visceral layers become continuous with each other. The visceral layer is the portion which sur- rounds the cord, and that which lines the inner surface of the dura mater is called the parietal layer; * the interval between the two, is called the cavity of the arachnoid. The visceral layer forms a loose sheath around the cord, so as to leave a considerable interval between the two, which is called the sub-arachnoidean space. This space is largest at the lower part of the spinal canal, and encloses the mass of nerves which form the cauda equina. It contains an abundant serous secretion, the cerebro-spinal fluid, and usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, by means of an opening in the fibrous layer of the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle. This secretion is sufficient in amount to expand the arachnoid mem- 254.—Transverse Section of the Spinal Cord brane, so as to completely fill up the whole of the space included in the dura mater. The sub-arachnoidean space is crossed, at the back part of the cord, by numerous fibrous bands, which stretch from the arachnoid to the pia mater, especially in the cervical region, and is partially sub- divided by a longitudinal membranous partition, which serves to connect the arachnoid with the pia mater, opposite the posterior median fissure. This partition is incomplete, and cribriform in struc- ture, consisting of bundles of white fibrous tissue, interlacing with each other. The visceral layer of the arachnoid surrounds the spinal nerves where they arise from the cord, and encloses them in a tubular sheath as far as their point of exit from the dura mater, where it becomes continuous with the parietal layer. The arachnoid is destitute of vessels. No nerves have as yet been traced into this membrane. The Pia Mater of the cord is exposed on the removal of the arachnoid (fig. 253). It is less vascular in structure than the pia mater of the brain, with which it is continuous, being thicker, more dense in structure, and composed of fibrous tissue, arranged in longitudinal bundles. It covers the entire surface of the cord to * Kolliker denies that the inner surface of the dura mater is covered by an outer layer of the arachnoid, and states that nothing is found here except an epithelial layer, no truce of a special membrane existing. and its Membranes.