632 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. and joins the hepatic duct to form the common duct. It lies in the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the vena cava, the cystic artery lying to its left side. The mucous membrane lining its interior is thrown into a series of crescentic folds, from five to twelve in number, which project into the duct in regular succession, and are directed obliquely round the tube, presenting much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. They exist only in the human subject. When the duct has been distended, the interspaces between the folds are dilated, so as to give to its exterior a sacculated appearance. The ductus communis choledochus, the largest of the three, is the common ex- cretory duct of the liver and gall-bladder. It is about three inches in length, of the diameter of a goose-quill, and formed by the junction of the cystic and hepatic ducts. It descends along the right border of the lesser omentum, behind the first portion of the duodenum, in front of the vena porta?, and to the right of the hepatic artery ; it then passes between the pancreas and descending portion of the duodenum, and, running for a short distance along the right side of the pancreatic duct, near its termination, passes with it obliquely between the mucous and mus- cular coats, the two opening by a common orifice upon the summit of a papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle. Structure. The coats of the biliary ducts are, an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous. The fibrous coat is composed of a strong areolar fibrous tissue. The mucous coat is continuous with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and also with that of the duodenum. It is provided with numerous glands, the orifices of which are scattered irregularly in the larger ducts, but in^ the smaller hepatic ducts are disposed in two longitudinal rows, one on each side of the vessel. These glands are of two kinds. Some are ramified tubes, which occasionally anastomose, and from the sides of which saccular dilatations Jivo unyoii off; others are small clustered cellular glands, which open either sepa- rately into the hepatic duct, or into the ducts of the tubular glands.