22G CHAP. VIU.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. pounded sugar, if the flavour is liked. Salad-sauce may be rendered more pungent by the addition of cayenne, minced onion, or eschalot, or more herb-flavoured vinegar. Put the smooth sauce in the dish, and either lay the cut herbs lightly over it, or mix them well with it, and garnish with cooked beetroot sliced and marked, rings of the white of the eggs, young radishes, nasturtium flowers, etc. The onions may be served separately, on a small dish. Some like the salad- sauce served separately, and others, knowing persons, like grated Parmesan put to their salad and sauce.—See Nos. 239 and 266. 234. Lobster-Salad,—This is a fashionable salad. The coral of the boiled lobster is cut, and tastefully disposed among the white and green vegetables and green capsicums, so as best to contrast the colours; lemon-juice or vinegar is added with salt.—Another vmy. Choose a hen lobster. Boil, break the shell without mangling the meat. Divide the tail, and lay it in the middle of the dish, the best side upmost—the claws laid around—then a row of minced parsley, or better cress, then one of lobster and spawn. Garnish with slices of lemon. Serve a sauce of oil, vinegar, mustard, cayenne, and salt, or the sauce of No. 233. 235. Dress the lobster, and garnish with parsley.—See No. 32, Salade de Grouse a la Soyer^ and No. 666. 236. Parisian Salad, and Macedoine after Careme—Cnt five red carrots and five turnips in half-inch lengths ; and then, with a root-cutter a quarter inch wide, cut them into small fillets as for soup : keep them separate, and blanch them in salt and water : then boil them separately, in stock, with a morsel of butter and a bit of sugar, keeping the turnips firm : when boiled and cooled in a basin, add to them asparagus points, and young French beans, cut in half-inch lengths, and also boiled, but not too soft: season the Macedoine, to taste, with nutmeg, chopped chervil, pepper, eschalot, first blanched, and three spoonfuls of aspic jelly (See No. 606). Before dishing add a little tarragon-vinegar ; toss up in a saucepan to mix thoroughly, and serve in a Croustade (See No. 579), round which small sprigs of cauliflower may be placed. Prepared mushrooms, or artichoke bottoms cut in dice may be mingled with this, and two spoonfuls of salad- sauce, or the French Mayonnaise, added. This is a Spring 3Iacedoine, and is raised to the Parisian salad of Careme as follows:—Take slices of beet, and boiled potatoes ; cut them an inch and three-fourths long, and two thirds of an inch thick, and divide each piece into two triangular ones. Form a circle of potatoes six inches in diameter round a salad dish, placing a triangle of the beet alternately with one of potatoes, so as to form a border two-thirds of an inch high. To fortify this border, fill the bottom of the dish with aspic-jelly, and set it on ice. Then pierce the centre of thirty mushrooms with a corer an inch wide, and fill the hole with a head of asparagus an inch long, or else with French beans> carrot, or beet cut in