OF MUTTON. 313 with tlie roots in the centre, and pour a ragout or puree of turnip or onion into the middle of the dish. 482. Another way.—Blanch and stew them, make a ragout of a dozen and a half of small onions, fried in butter with a little minced eschalot, catsup, wine, and white seasonings; add stock. Stew the tongues in this for a half- hour. Skim the sauce. Dish the tongues, sauce them, and arrange the onions either around, or in the centre. 483. Made-Dishes of Cold Mutton.—Dressed mutton may be warmed up either by hashing^ stewing in stock, or broil- ing in a Dutch oven. The last mode is suitable to a blade- bone, or Poor Man of Mutton^ which may be scored, seasoned, broiled, and served with any relishing sauce, or over a hash of the rest of the mutton. From a roast haunch, a nice fillet may be cut; if underdone, so much the better. Shape it, cut out the bone^ which replace with dressed forcemeat; have a little gravy, or draw a gravy from the trimmings, and stew the fillet very slowly till quite hot; or it may be well basted ^ad heated in the Dutch oven, at a good distance from the nre. 484. To Hash Mutton.—Cut the white underdone parts into thin slices about the size of a shilling, laying aside the fat. Prepare a gravy from the gristles and other trimmings, and season it with pepper, salt, and onion. Skim off the fat and strain the gravy, and, putting the meat to it, let it soak till thoroughly warm, but it must not boil.—See Ohs, Nos. 421, 422. 485. Minced Mutton with Cucumbers.—Mince the best parts left of a cold roasted leg, aud stir this into a mince of stewed cucumbers. Let it heat, but not boil —Obs. Minced mutton may also be served with cooked endive. 486. Plain Casserole of Dressed Mutton.—Butter and line a mould thickly with mashed potatoes ; fill it with the sliced mutton properly seasoned; cover the whole with more mashed potatoes, and bake and turn it out. 487. Haricot of Cold Mutton.—Cut the cold meat into chops, trimming off, as in all hashes, superfluous fat. Simmer it very slowly in any strong well-seasoned stock you may have ready, or may draw from the mutton-bones. Add, cooked, a half-dozen of button-onions, some round slices of carrot, and a turnip scooped down in bits like marbles.— o