TO CRIMP SKATE HADDOCKS IN BKOWN SAUCE. 177 marinade of vinegar, salt, pepper, onions, bay-leaves, etc.; and after skinning, serve it with caper-sauce, or cucumbers. As the Parisians seldom have sea-fish very fresh, they season more highly than the English and Dutch. On the whole, we consider the modern English cookery of fish better than the French. 134. Haddocks in Brown Sauce. An excellent old-fashioned Scotch Dish, Clean, cut off the heads, tails, and fins, and skin from six to eight small-sized haddocks. Take the heads, tails, and trimmings, with two or three of the fish cut down, and boil them in a quart of water or broth, with a couple of onions, some sweet herbs, and a piece of lemon-peel; thicken with four ounces of butter rolled in browned flour, strain the sauce, and season highly with mixed spices and mushroom-catsup; and when it boils and is skimmed, put in the fish, skinned, boned and cut into fillets [Mead No. 136], and if you choose previously browned in the frying- pan. If there be too little sauce, add some good beef-gravy; add if you like, a quarter hundred of oysters and a glass of their liquor; or some mussels, and a little wine. Take out the fish, when ready, with a slice, and pour the boiling sauce, which should be brown, smooth, and thick, over them. Other ways.—Haddocks may he stvffed with a fish- forcemeat, and dressed in a sauce, as directed above. Some of the forcemeat may be made into balls for garnishing. Haddocks may also be stuffed, egged, and strewed with fine bread-crumbs, and minced parsley; and baked, basting them well with butter. Serve in a white or brown sauce made of a pound or more of veal, onions, and parsley, and thick- ened with plenty of butter kneaded in brown flour. Strain, and add a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, white pepper in fine powder, a quarter-hundred of pickled oysters divided, and a spoonful of the pickle. Pour the boiling skimmed sauce over the fish. Garnish with sliced lemon and pickled samphire. Whitings are dressed as above, with a white sauce, and codlings with a brown sauce. For Crap- pit Headsj see National Dishes. See also Fish and Sauce, National Dishes. h2