MADE-DISHES OF VEAL. 363 meat, forcemeat, etc.; and the centre noix^ or fat marrowy piece of the fillet next the rump, for godiveau^ sauce tour- nee^ etc. The trimmings and bones help to make Espagnole^ or soup or sauce. The part next the rump, or centre noix, is also dressed d la Bourgeoise, i. e. fried. 628. Noix de Veau en Bedeau,—or in the Beadle^s Fashion, —Flatten the noix^ and lard it lengthways with lardons seasoned with minced parsley, green onions, and cooks' pepper. Line a stewpan, that will just hold it, with trim- mings of veal, and lay slices of white bacon over the noix where not larded. Put onions, carrots, parsley, etc., into the stewpan, and a little Espagyiole or roux. Cook slowly; serve with or over sorrel, spinage, or a puree of onions. A Puree of onions, turnips, mushrooms, etc., is a pulpy thin mash or sauce of the vegetable specified^ thinned with boiling cream or gravy. 629. Grenadins de Veau,— Veal Grenadins.—^These are small slices from the fillet, about an inch thick, and flat- tened ; and one piece being cut round, the others must be shaped as lozenges to lie neatly round this centre. Lard them, stew them in a pan lined with bacon, and any trim- mings of the veal: season as above ; put fire over the pan. Serve on a puree of mushrooms, or with cooked sorrel, or -endive, dishing the gromdins with their points to the centre where the round pi^ce is laid.—See No. 442. 629^. Tendons de Veau—or gristles cut out of th^ breast of veal—make a nice and favourite French dish, and are now common at refined tables in England. The tendons are cut from one or two breasts of veal; stewed in white or brown rich stock, wdth herbs and seasonings; allowed to cool, and then cut into difierent shapes, as ovals, diamonds, oysters. The following we consider the best mode of cook- ing :—The tendons lie round the front of the breast; cut them neatly out, not to spoil the joint for roasting or stew- ing. Put them into a deep small stewpan, with two car- rots, three onions, a bay-leaf, some slices of lemon, and cloves (if you like), and a small fagot of sweet herbs and parsley. Moisten with a pint of good stock, and simmer for two or three hours till the point of a knife will easily enter the meat. Lift them, and pull out any bones or hard parts remaining. Press them between two trenchers on