63 DES DEJEOTEES A LA FOUEOHETTE.f That change of manners which has introduced late dinners, and superseded hot suppers, has very much improved the modern breakfast. Besides the ordinary articles of eggs, broiled fish, pickled herrings, Sardinias, Finnan haddocks, collared eels, beef, mutton, and goat hams, reindeer and beef tongues, sausages, potted meats, cold pies of game, etc., etc., a few stimulating, hot, dressed dishes are, by a sort of tacit prescription, set especially apart for the dejeuner d la fourchette of the gourmand and the sportsman. Of this number are broiled kidneys, calf s and lamb's liver fried with fine herbs, mutton cutlets d la Venetienne^ Oxford Jolin^ and many kinds of broiled and fried fish, and other piquant^ and yet solid preparations. Receipts for these stimulating pre- parations of poultry, game, etc., will be found under the proper heads. In France, where it is the practice to take a cup of coffee either in bed, or in the bed-chamber the moment of rising, the breakfast, later than with us, is a sort of lunch- eon, or lighter dinner, but served sans ceremonie^ and often without a table-cloth; cold and hot dishes are served, the repast often beginning with oysters, and ending with a dessert of the fruits in season, with coffee, tea, and chocolate, and wines of course. When the dejeuner d la fourchette is in England an entertainment for company, the articles provided with the addition of tea, coffee, chocolate, and all kinds of breakfast breads, etc., do not materially differ from those of a fashionable supper. It is served in two courses. t THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. AN ODE. There are the sausages, there are the eggs, And there the chickens with close-fitted legs, And there is a hottle of brandy, And there's some of the best sugar-candy, Which is better than sugar for coffee. There are slices from good ham cut off,—he Who cut them was but an indifferent carver, He wanted the delicate hand of a barber. And there is a dish Buttered over! and fish, trout and char Sleeping are The smooth ice-like surface over, There's a pie made of veal, one of widgeons, And there's one of ham mixed Avith pigeons.