CHAP. III. ROASTING. 88 taken out, and the nostrils and ears well cleaned, the pig must next be washed in cold water* Cut off the feet at the first joint, loosening and leaving on the skin to turn neatly over. He is now ready for the stuffing. For thi^^, take a half ounce of mild sage, and a couple of young onions parboiled; chop these very fine, add a cupful of grated bread-crumbs, four ounces of good butter, and a high relish of cayenne and white pepper and salt. Sew the slit neatly up (this the Doctor did with his own hands), and baste first with brine, then with the best fresh butter, or with salad- oil, if you would have the crackling crisp, which is the true and only test of a well-roasted pig. Some cooks tie up the butter in a bit of muslin, and diligently rub the crackling with this ; others anoint that substance with a bunch of feathers or a paste-brush to keep it constantly moist; others again smear it with beat white of eggs. A pig-iron, or some ingenious substitute, must be placed in the centre of the grate, part of the time, to prevent the middle regions of the animal from being scorched before the extremities are enough done. The legs must be trussed back to allow the inside to be roasted, and— *' You'll see when he's enough, when both eyes out, Or if he want the nice, concluding bout; For if he lie too long, the crackling's pall'd, Not by the dredging box to be recall'd." For sauce,—Clear beef or veal gravy, with a squeeze of lemon, and, if approved, a little of the stuffing stirred into the sauce-tureen.—Obs. Apple-sauce and currant-sauce are still served with roast pig; but sweet sauces for animal food are losing favour, if not place. Even currant-jelly sauce with mutton and venison, which were heretofore considered one-and-indivisible, are now often seen disjoined. The taste of the age is decidedly either for the pungent, the sharp, the piquant, or the sub-acid. Another favourite sauce is the liver and brains, the forcemeat, and a few sprigs of sage, chopped and boiled up in the gravy. In Scotland, where the pig is too often dished whole, the brains cannot be obtained to enrich the sauce, which, along with the trouble given to the carver, was considered by the Club a capital objection to this semi-barbarous mode of dishing.