POULTKY. 375 tliey are cooked in by a quick boil, and strain it over them. When ready to serve, add gradually a thickening of the beat yolks of two eggs.—See Nos. 521, 517. Scollops of Cold Chicken.—Mince the cold chickens, and heat the mince in Bechamel-sauce; dish in scollop-shapes, and serve with cucumber-sauce. 669. Cold Fowl d la Mayonnaise.—Arrange in the dish fillets and neat joints around hearts of very delicate lettuces, or endive trimmed; sauce the meat when to be served with a Mayonnaise., and garnish with water-cresses and hard- boiled eggs, divided, cutting off a bit of the white to make the egg stand.—See No. 666. Various Small French Dishes. 670. Parisian Rissoles and Rissoles of Cold Roast ChicTcen. —Mince the white and good parts. Warm the mince in veloute well reduced. Season with mace, white pepper, and nutmeg, and when cold, roll this up with two silver spoons, into balls the size of large eggs. Wrap these in thin paste, and fry and serve them with fried parsley.—See No. 540. 670^. Parisian Rissoles.—Car erne's Receipt.—Eoll out very thin three-quarters of a pound of Brioche paste. Place upon it, about two inches from the edge, minced fowl or game, prepared as for croquets (No. 540), and rolled up between two teaspoons in balls the size of a nutmeg. Place these an inch from each other; egg the paste all round, and fold the edge of it over the balls of mince. Press it firmly down, and with a pastry-stamp, two inches wide, cut the rissoles, keeping the mincemeat-ball exactly in the centre of each. Make twenty-four for a dish. Lay them on a hot tin that the paste may rise, and fry them in lard not too hot, turning with a skewer. They will become quite round. When of a fine colour, drain them on a cloth, dress, and serve directly. They may also be made oblong, or like crescents, etc., etc. 671. Salpiqons.—These elegant little dishes are made of any kind of left poultry, or forcemeat, or of the more deli- cate vegetables, as mushrooms and artichokes, cooked sepa- rately, and served together, but in different compartments of the same dish. Salpiqons are usually cooked in Espagnole^ and neatly dished, with a border, and a division-line of sip-