404 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. a lighter disli for an invalid, mashed turnips may be put to it. It is lightest made thin without suet, and cooked for fifteen minutes. Some people come to like minced-collops after the mince is soured in the potting-cans—in fact, fer- menting. Sippets are appropriate to every mince. 735. Hare^ Venison^ and Veal Collops are made the same as beef minced-collops, using the seasonings appropriate to those savoury preparations.—See No. 55. 736. Potted Head^ Potted Heels^ etc.—Dress a buUock^s head as directed for ox-cheek-soup. No. 91, and, when boiled till very tender, cut the meat into small pieces as directed, No. 460. Strain the gravy; season it highly with mixed spices and mace, and return the whole into a clean saucepan. Boil for some time, and pour it out into stoneware shapes or basins, and when cold and wanted, turn it out. This makes a pretty corner-dish or supper-dish. Garnish with curled parsley, or pickled beetroot sliced. Cowheels and Shin soup are made as Calf's Head soup, and are potted in the same manner; but season Calf's head or feet with lemon- peel and juice of lemon.—See No. 91. 737. A Stoved Howtowdie^ with Drappit Eggs,—Prepare and stuff with forcemeat a young plump fowl. Put it into a yetlin concave-bottomed small pot with a close-fitting lid, with six button-onions, spices, and at least a quarter-pound of butter. Add some fine herbs. When the fowl has har- dened, and been turned, add a half-pint or rather more of boiling water or stock. Fit on the lid very close, and set the pot over embers. A cloth may be wrapped round the lid, if it is not grooved or luted on. An hour will do a young fowl, and so on in proportion. Have a little seasoned gravy, in which parboil the liver. Poach* nicely in this gravy five or six eggs. Dress them on flattened balls of spinage round the dish on which you serve the fowl. Eub down the liver to thicken the gravy and liquor in which the fowl was stewed, which reduce and pour over it for sauce, skimming it nicely, and serving all very hot. — Ohs, This is a nice small genuine Scottish dish. Mushrooms, oysters, force- meat-balls, etc., may be added to enrich it; or celery may be put to the sauce; the spinage may be, and often is, omitted. Slices of curled broiled ham may be served round * This is exactly the French dish (Eiifs pocMs an jus.