Part III. Chapter V. OMELETTES A LA CELESTINE. 891 Fry the apples gently in this, and dress them either en miroton (see Glossary/) or piled up in the dish, and pour over chem a spoonful of white currant jelly, heated in a glass of Madeira. 711. Omelettes a la Celestine. Make a smooth batter, with four ounces of pounded sugar, four of sifted flour, four eggs, and a pint of rich milk. Have a very little butter very hot, in an omelette-pan, into which pour equal to two large tablespoonfuls of the batter. When firmed, turn over the omelette upon a flat saucepan- lid, buttered and hot, and from this on a cloth. Make as many omelettes in this manner as you wish. Lay a tea- spoonful of apricot-jam, orange-marmalade, or any kind of preserve you like, upon each. Lay also a little frangipane^ No. 711^ upon each: fold up each, and, trimming the edges neatly, sift sugar over them, and glaze lightly with a sala- mander. Dress them pyramidically upon a napkin, and serve very hot. Pancakes d la Confiture are nearly the same.—See No. 879. 7112. Frangipane,—Beat up six eggs with two large table- spoonfuls of flour, to which add a pint of milk and a quar- ter pound of pounded sugar, and stir till these thicken and are on the eve of boiling. Now add the grate of a lemon, some broken ratafias, and a glass of rum or brandy. Stir up, and pour in two ounces of butter fried till it take a little colour. Frangipane^ may be flavoured with orange, coffee, vanilla, orange-flower essence, or any article suitable to the dish it is to be used with. Modern Frangipane is equivalent to our cold custard and prepared creams, used to serve with fruit pies and tarts. 711^. Creme Patissiere,—the cream which the French use instead of our cold custard, for saucing, i. e, eating with fruit-tarts and tartlets, puffs, sweet cannelons^ etc.—Eub in lumps, two ounces of sugar on the rind of a lemon. Make a batter of the yolks of three eggs and two ounces of the finest flour; whisk it well. Add to it gradually a pint of boiling milk (cream if you like), the flavoured sugar, and, if no cream, a half-ounce of melted butter. Whisk again. Stir it like custard over a clear fire, till it thicken. An ounce of crushed ratafias. No. 999, will improve this cream, or flavour may be given by any favourite liqueur. Read