335 SANDWICHES AND ANCHOVY TOAST. 551. DevlVd Biscuit.—Heat captain's biscuits before the fire, and spread over them the same ingredients, with cayenne, as for anchovy-toasts, No. 554. Many other in- gredients are used, and also the medicated Zests sold in the shops. The anchovy-powder, No. 326, answers well.—See Le Bon Diable^ No. 768, and Hors d'oeuvres^ No. 678^. 552. Sandwiches,—These are a convenient and economi- cal, but, at the same time, a rather suspicious order of culi- nary preparations, especially in hotels and public gardens. Sandwiches may be made of chicken, ham, or tongue, sliced or grated; of German or common pork-sausage, cold salted rump, anchovies, shrimps, sprats, potted cheese, or hard yolks of egg, and Parmesan or Cheshire cheese pounded with butter; also of forcemeat, and potted meat of various kinds, cold poultry, with whatever seasonings, as mustard, curry-powder, etc., etc., are most suitable to the meat of which the sandwich is made. The only particular directions that can be given are, to have them fresh-made, and to cut the bread (sandwich loaves baked on purpose) in neat even slices, of any shapes that are fancied, and not too large— about two mouthfuls—nor thick, and to butter it very slightly. Mustard is added where suitable. Twist neatly up in paper.—See Sweet Sandwiclies. 553. A Cheese-Sandwich.—Take two parts of grated Par- mesan or Cheshire cheese, one of butter, and a small propor- tion of made-mustard; pound them in a mortar; cover slices of bread with a little of this, and lay over it very thin slices of ham, or any cured meat; cover with another slice of bread, press them together, and cut this into mouthfuls, that they may be lifted with a fork.—Obs. An anchovy may be pounded with the mixture, if liked. 554. Anchovy and otlier Savoury Toasts.—Cut slices of bread as for sandwiches, but keep them larger, and fry them nicely in fresh butter. Spread them with anchovy-butter, or boned anchovies and butter freshly pounded together, and lay some quartered anchovies above all. Brown this, if you like, with a salamander, and serve very hot. Toasts.—The old French cookery possessed an endless variety of Toasts^ some of which are still worthy of attention; as Friar's Toast, which was exactly our modern Anchovy Toast sprinkled over with chopped parsley, eschalot, and capers.