351 SAUCES. a partridge. Always keep in mind, that the flavour of tlie consomme in fine cookery should not be at variance with the flavour of the dish of which it is to form the sauce. For example, if intended for a dish dressed with mushrooms, which always have a very decided flavour,; season the con- somme with mushrooms. 583. Blonde de Veau^ Veal Grav}^, or Consomme.—Heat and rub a stewpan hard with a towel, then rub it with butter. Lay some slices of lean fresh bacon in the bottom of it, and over these four or five pounds of a leg of veal cut into slices. Moisten with a ladleful of grand consomme^ and in this let the meat sweat. When it has catched a golden tinge over a rather brisk fire, prick it with a sharp knife to let its juice, flow out; let it sweat for twenty minutes more ; when reduced to a jelly of a topaz colour, moisten it with boiling broth [Grand Bouillon^ No. 59), and season with onions, parsley, and mushrooms. Let this boil for an hour, and strain it for use. 584. Grande Sauce.—See Savoury Brovm Gravy^ No. 257. —it is the same thing. 585. Sauce Espagnole.—Put some slices of ham, according to the quantity of sauce you want, into a stewpan, with double the quantity of sliced veal. Moisten these with a small quantity of consomme, and when you have drawn a strong amber-coloured glaze, put in a few spoonfuls more to float this off. [N.B. This is a proper direction for detach- ing all glaze.] Put in a little more consomme of poultry or rabbits, if you have it; if not, some strong blonde de veaii, No. 583. Season with a little parsley, green onions, a half bay-leaf, two sprigs of basil and thyme, and two cloves. Simmer for a half-hour,, skim and strain.—Ohs. This is used for many dishes; it is a favourite general sauce; and, when wanted^ is thickened with rvux (No. 253), and seasoned with Madeira. It is sometimes made of game, especially when to sauce game. 586. Veloute, or White Cullis.—This is a very delicate sauce, made sometimes by a tedious and complicated process: ^ our receipt is simple.—(See No. 258.)—Sweat slowly over the fire some slices of very nice bacon, a knuckle of very white veal, any fresh trimmings of poultry or game you