593 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 1217. To Wash Chintz Furniture^ Shawls, efc—Clioose'a good dry- ing day before you wet the cloth. Dust the things well previously by shaking and rubbing, and wash them quickly out in cool lathers ready made up with boiled white soap. Two, or at most three lathers will do them. Rinse in cold spring-water, in which starch and a little oil of vitriol have been mixed, which, without injuring the fabric, will brighten the colours, and prevent them from running. Shake the things very well, and repeat this occasionally till they are dry.— Ohs. Rice-water is now very much used for fine printed calicoes and chintzes. It is used thus:—Boil a pound of rice in five quarts of water, and when cool enough, wash the chintz in this, using the rice as soap. Have another quantity ready, but strain the rice from this, and use it with fresh warm water, keeping the rice-water strained off for the third washing, which, at the same time, stiffens the chintz, and brightens the colours. The things should be dried quickly, press- ing smooth with the hands between large folds of sheets. 1218. To Clean Printed Calico Furniture.—Shake and brush with a long haired brush, rub with clean flannel, and fold it carefully in large folds. Crumb of stale bread will also clean it. For moreen or damask curtains also use flannel, and, if much soiled, sprinkle bran over, rubbing in little bits circularly, and keeping clean bran only in operation. 1219. To Scour Blankets.—Boil good mottled soap and pearl ashes. Make a strong lather. Pour more hot water over the lather, and wash the blankets (previously wetted through in cold water) till the lather becomes dirty. Repeat this till a clean lather comes off' them. Less soap solution may be used the second time, and little or none the last time; but the water must be warm and the blankets fully covered with it, else they will thicken. Shake well while drying. Every thing in drying should be well shaken and stretched:—Linen, to make it mangle well—woollens, to keep them from thickening, and to raise the pile. As a general rule, all woollen articles should be saturated with cold water, and wrung, immediately before being washed in warm water; though some now use cold water alone. 1220. To Wash Silk StocJcings.—Wash in white soap-ley and warm water, and scald them in the same. Rinse in cold water, and dip them in water in which a drop of blue or a bit of cudbear or pink dye is put, according to the tinge wanted. Rub them till dry with clean flannel; if well polished no mangling is required, and the lustre is brighter.—Cotton Stockings. Steep the feet over night in cold water; wash clean out. Boil in a strong lather; rinse, bleach, dry, and either iron, press, or mangle them. 1221. To take Spots of Paint from Cloth and Silks.—Dip a clean nibbed pen in spirit of turpentine, and touch the spot as soon after it is stained as possible. When dry, rub the place. 1222. To take greasy Stains out of Silk.—Scrape French chalk over the spot, and repeat this till the grease comes out, then rub off the chalk; or rub lightly but briskly with a clean soft bit of lawn or cambric till the spot disappear. Avoid stains. They never come fairly out. 1223. To take out Iron-Mould.—Hold the spot stretched wet over