346 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. business to investigate; our main concern being with those matters in which this confessed excellence consists. But there is one cause of superiority so important that it must be mentioned,—namely, the extreme patience and anxiety with which the most restless people in the world, upon all other occasions, attend to culinary processes. A French cook will give a half-day to the deliberate cookery of a dish, which an English one would toss off in a half-hour; and will watch the first popple of his stewpan as if it were the last pulse of life. Any one who has seen a French cook attending to the veloute, preparing the Mayonnaise^ decorating a salad, or pounding quenelles^ as if life and death depended on his function, may have some idea of the importance of his art in his own estimation. Another evident cause of French supe- riority is the comparative plenty of game, fine herbs, and vegetables, mushrooms, truffles, etc.; the cheapness of poultry, and of wines of high flavour; and also, paradoxical as it may seem, the high price of fuel in France. So scientifically is the culinary art understood by our neighbours, that a French kitchen, previous to a grand dinner, is a perfect arsenal of consomme^ gravies^ glaze^ roux^ and mixed spicesj all prepared in the best, and generally in the most economical manner; for, however it may be in this country with those ministers of vanity imported to English kitchens by luxury and ostentation, economy, we say it again, is thoroughly understood in France. Though objections are brought to the high relish of French dishes, we will venture to affirm, that the receipts given in oiu' English Cookery Books, with their heterogeneous mixture of a thousand and one ingredients, are not only more expensive, but less simple than those of Beauvilliers or Balaire. We speak not of Careme ; he was the Chef of emperors and millionaires. But if honne cliere is so well understood by our neighbours, hon gout^ in all matters connected with the table as with the fete^ is their undoubted/or^e. They study to propitiate the eye. It is their pride to present the humblest fare in an appetizing form. The French are allowed to excel in soups and entrees^ and in the refined preparation of sauces. They have also more and better ways of dressing vegetables than are prac- tised by us, by which they can, at small expense, add to the variety, fulness, and good appearance of a table. Their modes of cookery, by braising^ dressing in a hlanc^ or in a