570 CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. of water, letting it boil on a slow fire for tliree-quarters of an hour; then put a few carrots, parsnips, or turnips, all cut small; or a few potatoes sliced; a cabbage, and a couple of carrots. Thicken the whole with oatmeal. Season with salt and pepper.—See Bullock's- heart Stew, No 405. 1172. Cheap Soups.—The following soup Mrs Sparks sold every Saturday in small quantities. A pint of the soup, with a bit of the meat warmed up on a Sunday, made a dinner for a grown person:— An ox-cheek, two pecks of potatoes, a quarter of a peck of onions, one ounce of pepper, half a pound of salt, boiled all together in ninety pints of water till reduced to sixty; any garden-stuff may be thrown in. Friendly Hints by the same writer [Hannah More].—The difference hetween eating bread new and stale is one loaf in five. If you turn your meat into troth, it will go much farther than if you roast or haTce it. If you have a garden, maJce the most of it. A hit of leek, or onion, makes all dishes savoury, at small expense. If the money spent on fresh butter were spent on meat, poor families would be much better fed than they are. If the money spent on tea were spent on home-breiued beer, the wife would be better fed, the husband better pleased, and both would be healthier. Keep a little Scotch barley, rice, dry pease, and oatmeal in the house. They are all cheap, and do not spoil. Keep also pepper and ginger, 1173. Mrs Whitens Breakfasts.—" Neighbours," said Mrs White, " a halfpenny-worth of oatmeal, or groats, with a leek or onion out of your own garden, which costs nothing, a bit of salt, and a little coarse bread, will breakfast your whole family. It is a great mistake at any time to think a bit of meat is so ruinous, and a great load of bread so cheap. A poor man gets seven or eight shillings a-week; if he is careful, he brings it home. I dare not say how much of this goes for tea in the afternoon, now sugar and butter are so dear, because I should have you all upon me; but I will say that too much of this little goes even for bread, from a mistaken notion that it is the hardest fare. This at all times, but particularly if bread is dear, is bad man- agement. Dry pease, to be sure, have been very dear lately; but now they are plenty enough. I am certain then, that if a shilling or two of the seven or eight was laid out for a bit of coarse beef, a sheep's head, or any such thing, it would be well bestowed. I would throw a couple of pounds of this into the pot, with two or three handfuls of gray pease, an onion, and a little pepper. Then I would throw in cabbage or turnip, and carrot, or any garden-stuff that was most plenty; let it stew two or three hours, and it will make a dish fit for his Majesty. The workingmen should have the meat; the children do not want it; the soup will be thick and substantial, and requires no bread." [Mrs Hannah More does not say that " a poor man " in seven or eight shillings gets by a great deal too little ; but her receipt for a soup-breakfast may be useful to those who get twice the sum of weekly wages.] 1174. Another Cheap Soup.—Two pounds of shin of beef, or ox-