MILK-DISHES. 551 none so refined. This veritable oatmeal-jelly eats well cold, and takes any shape in a mould. We have altered, and, as we think, improved Dr Thomson's receipt. No better dish of the kind could be introduced by a Scotch physician into England. 1115. Baloop'Milh is made as No. 1114; but, from its native flavour, saloop does not require so much, nor indeed any seasoning. 1116. Sago-Milk.—Soak the berries in water for an hour before boiling ; or boil first in water for two or three minutes, which water pour off. Boil a large spoonful in a quart of new milk. Sweeten and season to taste.—Obs, The fore- going milks may be made of ground rice and saloop, using the rice-flour in smaller quantity. 1117. Scotch Hatted Kit.—Where this cooling and healthy article of diet is in constant use for children or delicate per- sons, a kit with a double bottom, the upper one perforated, and furnished with a faucet and a cover, should be got. Into this vessel put in the proportion of two quarts fresh good butter-milk, and a pint of milk hot from the cow. Mix well by jumbling; and next milking add another pint of milk, mixing all well. It will now firm, and gather a hat. Drain off the whey whenever it runs clear, by the spigot; remove what of the top or hat is necessary to take up the quantity wanted. This dish, if to present at table, may be moulded for an hour in a perforated mould, and strewed over with a little pounded sugar, and then nutmeg or cinnamon. The kit must be well sweetened with lime-water or charcoal every time it is used; and too much milk should not be made at once, it gets so rapidly very acid. A slight degree of coagulation assists digestion, but milk highly acidulated is not wished for in this dish. 1118. Another and easier way.—Pour a quart of very hot new milk over two quarts of fresh butter-milk. Let it repose. When firm, take off the surface, and drain the rest in a milk-sieve, or mould it if you choose. Serve cream in a jug and sugar. 1119. Corstorphine or Ruglen Cream, or Lappered Milk. —Pour a quart of new milk into a jar. On this, next morning, pour another, and mix well; at night do the same; and next day beat up the thickened milk with moist sugar.