504 CHAP. V. PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. them, when to be used. Cake moulds and hoops are of various kinds and forms, and must be bought. 1005. To Ice or Glaze Pastry and Cakes.—This is done with the whites of eggs and sugar; and in a common way is a simple process. Yolhs of eggs glaze cakes, though coarsely, effectually; but sifting fine sugar over little cakes and biscuits before they are put into the oven, or when half- baked, will do them well enough.—See also Nos. 813 and 814. 1006. To Ice or Frost a Home-made Bride^s Cahe^ or very large Plum-cake.—To a half-pound of fine sifted sugar put the whites of two eggs, beaten with a little orange- flower-water, or simple water, and strain. With this whisk the sugar till it is quite smooth. This may be tinged with the juice of strawberries or currants, or with prepared cochineal. For a Bride's cake confectioners use lake or cochineal. Lay the icing equally over large cakes with a flat spoon. Brush small ones with a few feathers dipt in the mixture. Place both in a cold oven; but large cakes should be cold when iced. Lemon-juice well beat with the sugar and white of eggs make a white icing. No other white icing is admissible. 1007. A plain Pound-Cake.—Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream, and put to it nine eggs well beat. Next beat them together till well mixed and light; and put to them a little shred lemon-peel, or a few blanched almonds chopped, sifted sugar to taste, and a pound and quarter of dried and sifted flour. Mix well and bake in a pan for an hour, in a rather quick oven; or two small cakes may be made of the ingredients.— Ohs. This may be made a plain plum-cake^ by putting to it a half-pound of cleaned currants, a few raisins, and a half-ounce of candied lemon and orange peel, with nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. It may also be converted into a good Seed-cake^ by adding caraway and coriander seeds to the plain cake. 1008. A plain Plum-Cake.—Use as much flour, butter, and sugar, as are ordered in the next receipt, but take only half the quantity of fruit, candied peel, and eggs. Season with cloves and nutmeg. Melt the butter in a half-pint of hot cream. Mix with the beat eggs three spoonfuls of sweet yeast. Beat the whole together; and if the composition