CHAP. II. BOILING. 76 to meat dishes. The French often serve braised ham over spinage, or mashed, i. e. a puree of turnips, or other vegeta- bles ; but it is seldom served in England save with Windsor beans. This, which is just the French ham d Vessence will keep longer than a round of beef, and is an excellent and serviceable article at all hours. 12. Ham with Windsor Beans. Boil the ham as directed in No. 10, and serve it trimmed and skinned, over Windsor beans, boiled in salt and water, and tossed up in melted butter. When cold keep as directed for a salted round of beef, using the skin instead of cloths. The outside slices pared off before the meat is served, can be kept for culinary purposes. The liquor in which the ham was boiled may be strained; and if you manage to have fowls or a knuckle of veal dressed on the following day, both liquors may be rapidly boiled down to- gether, with pepper, mace, eschalot, and sweet herbs, when the result will be a rich and highly-relishing gravy for culi- nary puposes. Or plain pease or carrot soup may be made of these mixed liquors. See Potted Meatsj Pease Soupj Ham roastedj and Sandwiches. Jekyll was intolerably eloquent on ham sauce, and astounded even Touchwood by anecdotes of a grand gourmand, a man of ultra gout, who, pursuing the science as one of the fine arts, soaked his Westphalia hams in Rhine- wine, and baked them in French wine, with aromatic spices. "It was a fine thing," as the Irishman said, " to be a pig in them times." If a ham is tolerably fresh, it will bake very well. It must be soaked as for boiling. The colour will be better than when boiled, and the flavour higher. But Mistress Dods, who detested that new and unnatural practice, said it was " dried to a dander;" and Touchwood dropped the point, as he could not think of bestowing a libation of Rhine-wine on a porker of West- phalia (see Ham with Madeira); and distance from the metropolis made it impossible to procure Essence of Ham, a high-flavoured commodity sold at the London Eating- houses, which he not irrationally concluded might make an admirable substitute for wine (as does cider, with a little vinegar), and be afterwards applicable to every purpose for