382 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. the small stewed onions and the mnslirooms, dressed in tlie sauce, round the fish, and garnish with the soft roes stewed in vinegar.—Obs, This sauce, and all fish-sauces, should be of good consistence, that it may adhere to the fish. 686. Perches au Vm, Ferches in Wine.—Scale and clean the perch. Cook them in good stock (No. 679); add a little white wine, with a high seasoning of parsley, chives, cloves, etc. Thicken a little of this liquor for sauce. Add to it salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little anchovy-butter.—Ohs. Always use white wine with white fish, and red wine with red-coloured fish. 687. Perche a la Maitre Hotel.—BoW. some salt, pepper, parsley, and chives in water, and in this bouillon boil the perch. Drain and dish them, and cover them with a maitre hotel sauce. 688. Soles,^ Flounders, and other Small Flat Fish, or Fillets of Turbot, etc., au Gratin.—Have a flat silver dish, or tin bakingpan, and spread a bit of fresh butter over it. Mince, very finely, parsley, eschalots, and mushrooms; sea- son with pepper and salt, fry the herbs, and lay them in your buttered dish. Place your fish, neatly cut and trimmed, over this, and cover with fine bread-crumbs. Over this stick a few bits of butter; moisten with a little white wine ; cook under a furnace with a few embers, that the gratin may get crisp; squeeze lemon over your dish, and serve it very hot. The gratin may be browned with a salamander, and fried sippets may be stuck over the dish. Small undressed fish may be divided, have the bones taken out, and be baked au gratin, arranging the pieces neatly en miroton. No. 623. 689. Other French dishes of fish.—John Doree en Ma- telote.—Stuff with half a pound of a fish-forcemeat, No. 149. Boil the fish in a roomy kettle, throwing in a bunch of sweet and one of savoury herbs, three onions, a carrot, a turnip, a bay-leaf, a head of celery, a tablespoonful of salt, two glasses of red wine, and two of vinegar. Serve with a Matelote sauce, to which add three dozen oysters, blanched and bearded. Serve hot. Slices of brill, or large soles, or turbot may be served en matelote, d la maitre d'hotel, or d la Hollandaise. One is rejoiced to find that French cooks, * This and canapes of skates' livers are among the recettes alimentaires of a celebrated Parisian Society of Gourmands.