197 TO STEW OYSTERS, COCKLES, OR MUSSELS. harden for two minutes, which will enable you to beard them easily. Wash them as you beard, in their own Tiberius when he was in Parthia. Change the water every twelve hours. Most cooks direct that this delicate animal should be fed with oatmeal or flour sprinkled in the water; and others, on the principle which leads a mother of the parish of St Giles to give her new-born darling a drop of gin, are for feeding them with white wine and bread crumbs ! It is said by those who have the charge of fish-ponds, " that fish will eat nothing but what comes out of the sea;" now, though we are not perfectly convinced of this fact, we can at least believe that salt-water gruel is not well suited to the delicate stomach of an oyster. Those large fat oysters called Pan- dores, which are so much prized in Edinburgh, are said to owe their supe- rior excellence to the brackish contents of the pans of the adjacent salt- works of Prestonpans flowing out upon the beds,—a subject this worthy the serious investigation of the oyster-amateur, who may here receive ex- cellent hints for fattening and improving the quality of his favourite morsel. We, have, however, grave doubts of this theory. Shell-fish, and the oyster above all, have long been esteemed highly restorative, and easy of digestion; they are therefore recommended for the food of the delicate and declining, and of those whose digestive powers have been impaired by excess. We have grave doubts as to the easy digestibility of raw oysters. When eaten for health, an oyster is best swallowed with its own liquor the moment the shell is opened; or, if found too cold for the stomach, a sprinkling of black pepper may be allowed. Vinegar counteracts the effect of eating oysters to enrich the blood, or render it more balsamic, and ought therefore, it is said, to be avoided by the declining. As there are no reasonable bounds to oyster-eating, it may be useful to notice here, that when too many of these or other shell-fish are swallowed, the unpleasant feeling created may, it is said, be removed by drinking half a pint of hot milk. Consumptive persons are recommended to use hot milk after their oysters at all times,—we cannot tell why. " Oysters," says the learned author of Tdbella Cibaria, " were not common at Rome, and consequently fetched there a very high price; yet Macrobius assures us, that the Eoman Pontiffs never failed to have them every day on their tables." From the fourth century to the reign of Louis XIY. they were nearly forgotten; but they came again into vogue, and from that time have kept up their reputation. Gastronomers, we know, can swallow from three to four dozen before dinner, and then sit down and eat perhaps better than if they had abstained from them. They clear the stomach of accidental phlegm, increase the gastric juices, and by their natural coolness condense the air which may be fixed in the organs of digestion. When good they are wholesome, but poisonous when bad. The Athenians held oysters in great esteem," says the same learned authority on matters of the table; and we may add, that in the Modern Athens they are held in equal regard. They appear to have fallen into disrepute during the middle ages. Chaucer's begging monks mortified themselves upon this mean food. The principal taverns of the Old Town of Edinburgh used to be called Oyster Taverns, in honour of this favourite viand ; and this name is still kept up by some modern places of genial resort. " How many celebrated wits and bon-vivants, now quite chop-fallen," said Winterblossom, *' have dived into the dark defiles of Closes and Wynds in pursuit of this delicacy, and of the wine, the wit, the song, that gave it zest! I have heard my learned and facetious friend, the late Provost Creech—for it was rather before my day—^say, that before public amusements were much known in