LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 527 which are now discarded.* Lemon or Seville-orange juice may be added, and the water may be strained off from the spices. Ale or porter may be mulled as above, and have toasted sippets or biscuit put to or served with them. 1074. Wine-WheT/.—Boil in a saucepan a pint of new milk, and pour into it three glasses of sherry or raisin wine. Bring it again to the boiling point; let it stand till the curd forms, and then remove the curd, and strain and sweeten the whey to taste with fine sugar. The whey may be weakened with hot water, if necessary, for invalids, or it may be boiled for five minutes. Vinegar-whey^ Cream of Tartar^ Lemon^ Mustard-seed^ and Alum-vuhey^ etc., may all be made as above. 1075. Scotch Hot Pint.\—Grate a nutmeg into two quarts of mild ale, and bring it to the boiling point. Mix a little cold ale with sugar necessary to sweeten this, and, gradually, two eggs well beaten. Gradually ladle out and mix the hot ale with the eggs, taking care that they do not curdle. Put in a half-pint of whisky or rum, and, returning the whole to the saucepan, stir till it reach the boiling point, stirring Hot Spiced Wines.—A variety of these delicious potations were in use until about the beginning of the sixteenth century. The old metrical romances are full of allusions to these favourite compounds, and particu- larly to the hippocras, sacJc, and clary. The first of these, which took its name from the bag through which it was strained being called " Hippo- crates' sleeve," was made of either white or red wine, with aromatics, such as ginger, cinnamon, and aromatic seeds, and sugar. Clary was made from claret, with honey and aromatics; and sack from the wine of that name. This medicated vin de coucher was used as a composing draught, or night- cap," and also drank at the conclusion of a banquet. " Of these spiced wines," says Le Grande, in his Vie Privee de Francois, "our poets of the thirteenth century never speak without rapture, and as an exquisite luxury. They consider it the masterpiece of art to combine in one liquor the strength and flavour of wine with the sweetness of honey, and the per- fume of the most costly aromatics. A banquet at which no piment was served, would have been thought wanting in the most essential article." The only kind of these delicious beverages still in use, besides our common mulled wine, is Bishop, that bewitching mixture made of claret or Bur- gundy, oranges and spices, with sugar. See receipt Bis/iop, No. 1070. When this compound is made of Bordeaux wine, it is simply called Bishop; but, according to a German amateur, it receives the name of Car- dinal when old lihine wine is used; and even rises to the dignity of Pope when " imperial Tokay " is employed. f Egg-posset, egg-flip, etc., etc., are made on the same principle, substi- tuting wine for beer, and using a seasoning of lemon-grate rubbed off on knobs of sugar. Beer-flip is nearly the Scotch Hot Pint. It is in the Universities—we mean those of Oxford and Cambridge—that this order of preparations are now best understood, as probably they Avere of old in the jMonasteries. " Oxford Nightcaps " is the name of a learned work dedicated to those of Oxford alone.