150 CHAP. VI. BEOTHS, SOUB«, AND GRAVIES. ounce of black or Jamaica peppercorns, and three quarts of water. When this has simmered for an hour, put to it two pair of goose-giblets, or four pair of duck-giblets—but turkey- giblets if you can—scalded and cleaned, and previously browned in the frying-pan (if you choose), with minced onion. When the giblets are stewed delicately tender, but not soft and insipid, take them up, and cut them neatly into mouthfuls. The soup must now be thickened with butter kneaded in a large spoonful of flour, or with roux, or with the top-fat gradually mixed with flour, and strained into a fresh stew-pan, into which put the giblets. Boil, skim, and season with a large spoonful of mushroom-catsup, salt, and a little cayenne. Serve with the cut giblets in the tureen. Beans, lettuce, and celery, separately boiled, may be added at pleasure ; and we especially approve of celery. 96. Ox-tail and Kidney Soups. Two tails, or, if small, three, will make a large tureen of soup. Let the butcher divide them at the joints. Rub them with salt, and soak them well and long in lukewarm water. Place them in a stew-pan, with a pound of ham, four onions or more, a bunch of parsley, celery, two dozen of Jamaica and black peppercorns (or a half-ounce, if high peppering is wanted), a turnip and a carrot or two sliced, and three quarts of water. When the meat is tender, which will take at least three hours, cut it into small mouthfuls, laying aside the ham. Thicken the soup with a little browned flour, rubbed up with a ladleful of the top-fat; strain it into a fresh stew-pan, put in the cut meat, boil up, and skim ; and finish with a spoonful of mushroom-catsup, and pepper and cayenne to taste.— Ohs. Ox-tails make a very excellent onion-soup, by adding to it, when strained, a dozen fried onions pulped, and thickening it with rice-flour. The tails cut to bits may be put to boil at once, and less or no ham used. Some cooks add red wine ; then less catsup is needed.—See No. 400. Kidney-Soup : Prepare Scotch kidney eoUops as directed, No. 398, using two ox-kidneys. When cooked for two hours, add suflicient stock to make the stew and soup, adding cayenne and catsup to taste, and thicken with browned flour rolled in butter.