RED DEER OR ROE VEAL. 91 22. To Roast Eed Deer or Eoe. Season the haunch highly, by rubbing it well with mixed spices. Soak it for six hours in claret and a quarter pint of the best vinegar, or the fresh juice of three lemons; turn it frequently, and baste with the liquor. Strain the liquor in which the venison was soaked; add to it fresh butter melted, and with this baste the haunch during the whole time it is roasting. Fifteen minutes before the roast is drawn remove the paper, and froth and brown it as directed in other receipts. For sauce,—Take the contents of the dripping-pan, which will be very rich and highly flavoured : add a half-pint of clear brown gravy, drawn from venison or full-aged heath mutton. Boil them up together; skim, add a teaspoonful of walnut-catsup, and pour the sauce round the roast. Instead of the walnut- catsup, lemon-juice or any of the flavoured vinegars most congenial to venison, and to the taste of the gastronome, may advantageously be substituted. After the third venison dinner, it was the recorded opinion of the Club, that it is downright idiocy, a wanton and profligate sacrifice of the palate and the stomach to the vanity of the eye, to roast venison when it is not fat, while so many more nutritious and palatable modes of cookery may be employed, in coliops, soup, pasty, or civet.—See Made-Dishes of Venison, 23. To Roast Veal. The fillet, the loin, the shoulder,* or what of it is called the oyster, and the breast, are roasted ; the back ribs are best used for pie or cutlets; and the scrag should be either cut to pieces and stewed, and served in thick stew-soup, or made into rice-broth. Stuff the flap of the fillet with forcemeat made as directed for boiled turkey, but with rather more lemon-peel. Sew in the stuffing.—See Sauce, and Stuffing for Turkey, No. 8, or No. 27. Some of it may be worked up with yolk of egg into the shape of pigeon-eggs, then fried, or parboiled and browned below the roast, and drained, and served as a garnishing, or made into a small * The mdx, or large muscle bedded in firm fat near the neck, is a tid- bit of the Parisian epicure.