234 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES AND CONDIMENTS. round over a brisk fire till it becomes brown. Skim it, dredge in lightly-browned flour, and stir it briskly round with an iron spoon, till it boils and is smooth. A little vinegar or lemon-juice, with cayenne, etc., makes this a good plain fish-sauce for skate, etc., etc. 250. To Thicken Butter, To keep to sauce Green Pease, Vegetables, Salads, etc. Just cover the bottom of a stew-pan with hot water. Put to it in bits ten ounces of fresh butter, and let it grad- ually melt. Take the stew-pan off the fire, and toss it round till the butter becomes smooth. When to be used, heat it in your melting-pan. This and oiled butter answer well for salads to those who dislike oil. 251. Parsley and Butter, the National Sauce.—Pick and wash young parsley; tie it up in a fagot, and boil it in salt and water, for five minutes if young, or seven if old or pre- served ; drain it, and cutting off the stalks, mince the leaves very fine,* and stir about a tablespoonful into three ounces of melted butter. This simple sauce is used with a variety of dishes. 252. To Melt Butter with Cream.—Melt a half-pound of butter broken in bits in a glassful of sweet cream. Stir it constantly. This is used for lobster or oyster sauces to serve with turbot, turkey, etc., when the sauce is to be pre- sented in the highest style of English cookery. Eoux, White and Brown, to Thicken Sauces, etc. 253. White Roux.—Melt some good butter slowly, and stir into it, over embers, the best sifted flour, till it is as thick as a thinnish but firm paste. Stir it over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, but do not let it get brown—a pound of butter will take nearly a pound of flour. — Obs. This thickening, or roux, as the French term it, comes in place of our extempore butter kneaded in flour, and of our hastily-made browning, " a wretched resource," of which the mere name drives a French cook in England au deses- poir. The prepared roux, called humorously the " Cook's * We find it convenient to cut parsley, sage, or other fresh herbs Avith scissors.