532 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, COEDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. British or Home-Made Wines. " Of wine may be verified the merry induction, that good wine maketh good blood, good blood causeth good humours, good humours cause good thoughts, good thoughts bring forth good works, good works carry a man to heaven; ergo^ good wine carrieth a man to heaven."—Howell. Those families who make wine in any quantity will find it useful to procure an approved treatise on this branch of domestic economy alone. We shall, however, give receipts for making and ordering the best and most admired sorts of wines in sufficient variety to suit most private families. 1095. General and Important Observations.—The fruit ought to be gathered before it is dead riipe, and in dry and sunny weather, which will greatly improve the quality and flavour of the wine. All fruit that is either unripe or spoiled should be picked out with care, as one ill-flavoured berry will taint the juice of many good ones. The fruit must be carefully bruised and put into a vat (or on the small scale, a cask with the end out of it) to ferment with the softest water and the sugar. The more carefully the stalks and seeds are excluded, the better will the wine be in flavour and salutary qualities. The less water that is used, the richer will be the wine; and the more the fruit-juice, and the less the sugar employed, the more will the deshed vinous taste and flavour predominate. Two or three days are generally enough for the white wines to ferment in the vat. Red wines require a day or two longer. Fermentation may be hastened by agitating the liquid, and raising the temperature of the place in which the vat is placed. When the wine has under- gone fermentation, it must be cleared by being put into hair- bags, and strained in a wine-press, or be strained through a canvass-bag. [Large sieves are used in the small scale of wine-making.] The casks are then filled till within an inch of the bung-hole, which should be slightly covered over. The casks must be set in a cool place; and now another fermentation comes on, called the spiritous, which will throw off the feculence that remains in the must, and greatly purify the wine. When this second fermentation has abated, the spirits ordered for the wine should be added, and the cask filled up and bunged. In six weeks at soonest, the cask must be pegged, to see if the wine is bright, and if so, must be care- fully racked off from the lees into another cask. The best