253 SAUCES OF SHELL-FISH, AND FISH-SAUCES. Receipts for Sauces will he found along with the receipts for the dishes they are to accompany. Gravy-sauce for roast- meat, pp. 85-92. Sauce for tripe and cow-heel, p. 78. Sauce for a pig, p. 87. For roast venison, pp. 90, 91. Sauce for pork-chops, p. 111. — See also Drappit Egg^ National Dishes^ and French Cookery, Sauces of Shell-Fish, and Fish-Sauces. 308. Lobster-Sauce, or Crab-Sauce,/or Turbot, etc.— For sauce you must have a hen lobster, fresh (alive if pos- sible) and full of spawn. When boiled. No. 165, pound the spawn with a bit of butter, or a very little oil. In nice cookery reject the coarse outer spawn. Rub through a sieve into a sufficient quantity of melted butter, and mix it smooth; season with cayenne. Cut the meat of the tail, etc., into small dice, and put these to the sauce, which may be heated up, but not boiled, or the colour will spoil. This sauce is rendered more piquant by anchovies, cavice, catsup, spices, walnut or lemon pickles, etc.; but for fresh fish it is, we think, better unmixed with overpowering foreign flavours. Besides, these and other additions can be made at table. A little cream, first boiled, should be put to this sauce.—Obs, Lobsters for sauce may be preserved potted, and the live spawn may be kept in brine, or in an ice-house.—Sauces for Lobsters, p. 169. A sprinkling of the coral rubbed through a sieve makes, mixed with curled parsley, a pretty garnish to turbot, halibut, or other white fish, especially if they be cracked in the boiling. 309. Crab-Sauce.—Pick the meat from the great and small claws, and a little of the soft inside when not watery 5 season, and stir this into melted butter.^^ 310. Sau^e a VAurore.—This kind of lobster-sauce is made of the spawn only. Pound the spawn with butter; rub it through a coarse sieve, and thin it with a little clear stock; season it with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice.—Obs, This is served in France with trout or soles. 311. Oyster Sauce., for boiled Fish, Turkey, etc.—Open the oysters when you are ready to make the sauce ; save their * The inside meat of the small crabs, Scottice cavies, makes most deli- cate fish-sauce, inferior only in name to lobster-sauce. A spoonful of Harvey is a capital addition to most of the fish-sauces.—P. T.