CHOCOLATE AND WATERS. 561 possible to be clear, and served with sugar, but noir^ and consequently without cream. Essence of coffee is convenient for making extempore cafe noir^ or any kind; but, besides ^ being expensive, it can never be compared with fresh well- ' made coffee. A teaspoonful is put into the cup, and boiling water poured on, with hot milk or cream. 1142. Chocolate J to Make,— Complaints of the deteriora- tion of chocolate are now universal. Buy from a respectable shop, and do not ask for it cheap. Boil equal quantities of good new milk and water. Scrape down the cake-chocolate according to the strength and quantity wanted, and take the milk and water off the fire. Throw in the chocolate and sugar, and mill it constantly and rapidly off and on the fire. Serve with the froth on it, and completely blended with the milk. It is now, even in this country, sometimes flavoured with vanilla.— Ohs, Chocolate is sometimes made as gruel for delicate persons. Where much is used, it is thought an economical plan to make a pint of very strong chocolate, and to boil up a couple or three or four spoonfuls of this in milk, water, and sugar, as it is wanted, milling it well. It is ever best fresh-made if possible. Spanish Chocolate^ excellent.—" Mix with six pounds of the pounded nut, three of sugar, one and a half of Indian-* corn-meal, or half the quantity of arrowroot, half a pound of cinnamon, six cloves, a drachm of capsicum, a little rouou- nut to improve the colour, and seven pods of vanilla.^' The Spaniards sometimes perfume this composition with amber- gris or musk. This receipt may be modified to suit English tastes, and this is as much a preparation for convalescents or for luncheon, as for breakfast. Make the chocolate as No. 1142, with sugar and milk. 1143. Waters y for Cooling Draughts, of preserved or fresh Fruits—Lemon-water, and Orange-juice-water.—Pour boil- ing water on the preserved or on sliced fresh fruit, or squeeze out the juice, boil it up in a little thin syrup, and put water to it as it is wanted. Apple-water, often called Tea, is made as above.—A teapot or covered jug should be used when those drinks are made by infusion. Cucumber and Melon Waters.—The water in which cucumber is cooked may have any odd bits and parings of the cucumber put to it, and be boiled up, strained and sweetened for a cooling draught— 2 A 2