PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 544 lettuce: vegetables now begin to get cheap. Cresses from the end of this month till November. Fruits—Green gooseberries and rhubarb for tarts. Smelts and whitings plentiful, mackerel is got, and mullet. MAY. The same in meat as the preceding months, and about Whitsuntide buck-venison comes in season. Fish—Turbot, lobster, trout, salmon, eels, and plenty of the smaller white fish in favourable weather; oysters go out of season till August, and cod is not liked from about Lady-day till Midsummer, or later. Vegetables of all kinds as before, with forced pease and early potatoes. Sea-kale, asparagus, saladings, and carrots, are now obtained of natural growth. JUNE. Meat of all hinds, and it generally begins to get cheaper. Fish— Salmon, turbot, skate, halibut, crabs, prawns, lobsters, soles, eels, all in high season, and getting cheaper. Vegetables in great plenty and variety, and cheaper; cauliflower, asparagus plentiful, and about the cheapest towards the end of the month. Fruits in fine seasons are strawberries, early cherries, melons, and forced peaches and apricots; also apples for tarts. About the beginning of the month the West India fleets used to arrive with turtle. Now it comes frequently by steam. JULY. 3Ieat of all hinds.—Lamb and veal cheap. Poultry of all kinds as before, and also plovers and wheat-ears. Leverets, turkey-poults, and ducklings, now begin to be worth eating, and cheaper. Wild ducks are often got about this time. Fish is now good of all kinds, save oysters; and the rarer sorts, as turbot and salmon, are about the cheapest; therefore cod is not sought after, though this is the high season of the cod and also of the herring fishery on our coasts. Vege- tables of all kinds good and plentiful, as cauliflowers, pease, and French and Windsor beans. Fruits—All the small fruits at their best, also early grapes and plums, apricots, melons, cherries, and pine-apples. AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER. Meat of all hinds, and cheaper. Mountain-mutton now excellent. Grass-lamb growing coarse. Veal getting scarcer. Poultry as before; with moor-game of all kinds after the 12th of August, and partridges and hares from the beginning of September. Geese and ducks now full grown and good. Fish—Cod is good,—turbot goes rather out, as does salmon. Fresh-water fish now plentiful, as pike, carp, perch, and trout. Herrings, which are in season from July till March, are still excellent. Fruits of all kinds plentiful, as peaches plums, nec- tarines, hot-house grapes, melons, filberts, pears, apples: retarded small fruits still seen; also quinces, morella cherries, and damsons. Mushrooms, wild ones, most plentiful in this month and next, also cucumbers. OCTOBER. Meat as before, and doe-venison. Pasture-fed beef and mutton are probably at the best in this month. Poultry and game in all varieties,