482 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. pounded cloves and grated nutmeg. Milk from the cow nearly double the quantity of milk over it, and stir it up. 932. Staffordshire Syllahuh.—It is made as above, substi- tuting cider, with a little brandy, for wine. 933. Somersetshire Syllabub,—Sweeten a pint of port, and another of Madeira or sherry, in a china bowl. Milk about three pints of milk over this. In a short time it will bear clouted cream laid over it. Grate nutmeg over this, or strew a few coloured comfits on the top, if you choose. 934. Curds and Cream^ Scottish. — When the milk is firmly curdled, fill up a melon or Turk's-cap shape, per- forated to let the whey drain off. Fill up the shape as the curd sinks. Turn it out when wanted in a glass dish, and serve with sweetened cream; or a whip may be poured over the curd, which may be made firm either by squeezing or standing to drain; or, having drained the curd well, rub through a sieve, and pour cream over it. Garnish with bits of red currant jelly or preserved barberries. 935. Clouted Cream.—Season a quarter-pint of new milk with two blades of mace, and put to it a large glass of rose- water. Strain and add to this the beat yolks of two eggs. Stir the mixture into a quart of rich cream, and let it scald, stirring it all the while. The rose-water may be omitted when this is to be eaten with fruit. 9352. Devonshire Clouted Cr^am.— Scald new milk. Col- lect the top as it thickens or clouts, 936. An Egg-cheese or Curd-star.—BoW and season with cinnamon and lemon-peel a quart of milk or cream, and put to it eight eggs well beat, and a very little salt. Sweeten and season with orange-flower-water, wine, or any seasoning that is preferred. Stir and let this boil till it curdles, and till the whey is completely separated ; then drain it through a sieve, and put it into a star-mould or other shape, that has holes to let the whey drain wholly off. When firm, turn it out, and serve with cream, custard, or wine and sugar, along with, or around it. 937. Wassail'boid^ a centre Supper Dish for Christmas- tide.—Cvvimhle down as for trifle a fresh rice-cake (or use macaroons or other small biscuit) into a china punch-bowl or deep glass dish. Over this pour some sweet, rich wine,