337 MACARONI—CHEESE. 557. To Dress Macaroni in the test way.—Wash it well, and boil it slowly in water, till it is plump and tender, but not soft,—from twelve to fifteen minutes. Strain it, and add strong well-flavoured stock to it. When quite tender, season it with white pepper and cayenne, and when soft, but not broken, put it into the dish and serve over it in layers, grated Stilton, Parmesan, Greuyere, or other piquant cheese, in the proportions of six or eight ounces to half a pound ot macaroni. Brown it in a Dutch oven.—N.B. The more cheese, the more piquant is the macaroni. The old ewe-milk cheese of the Scottish Border we have found an admirable substitute for Greuyere. This dish is fashionably made en timballe. The timballe-shape is lined with slices of bacon, which are taken off before the macaroni, moulded in paste, is turned out and served, either with a brown sauce, or with gravy in the dish.—Ohs, Instead of gravy-stock, butter is often used. It may also be covered with ramakin-batter, or boiled with milk instead of water, or stewed in white ragout-sauce, with a little chopped lean ham. The grated cheese may also be laid in layers mixed up with the boiled macaroni, when, having dished it, strew fine bread-crumbs lightly over the top, and pour melted butter on the crur^bs through a colander. Brown it in a Dutch oven, as above, or with a salamander. — See Macaroni Pudding^ and Sughlio, 558. To Pot Cheese.—Cut down half a pound of good sound mellow Stilton, with two ounces of fresh butter ; add a little mace and made-mustard. Beat this well in a mortar, and, pressing it close in a potting-can, cover with clarified butter if to be long kept.—Ohs. Curry or anchovy powder, cayenne, or pepper, may all be added to the cheese, and we consider them more suitable than mace. 559. Toast and Cheese.—Pare the crust off a slice of bread cut smooth, and of about a half-inch in thickness. Toast it, but do not let it wither or harden in the toasting. Butter and cover the toast with slices of sound fat Stilton, Gouda, or Dunlop cheese of the first quality. Lay the toasts on a cheese-toaster, and notice that the cheese is equally done. Pepper, salt, and made-mustard are to be added at discre- tion.—Ohs. The toasts may be covered with the cheese pre- viously grated or chopped, which will facilitate the equal p