CHAP. VII. FISH. 186 in a stew-pan, stir them in it, over the fire, till of the con- sistence of a thick batter, adding more biscuit-powder or flour if necessary. Fill the fish and sew up the slit. Bake them in a moderate oven, basting with plenty of butter, and sticking butter all over them. They will look handsomer if brushed with egg and crumbed. Serve Pike with anchovy- sauce, and carp with the following sauce :—Take up the fish on a hot dish; thicken the liquor in which it was baked with butter rolled in flour, boiling it for a few minutes with a faggot of parsley, a few leaves of basil, a sprig of lemon- thyme, and a very little marjoram. Strain and add to the sauce a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and one of Chili vine- gar, a glass of red wine, and a little soy, with mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Pour a little of this over the carp, and serve the rest in a tureen. Garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon, or parsley and scraped horseradish.—Ohs. A highly-relishing forcemeat for the above may be made of scraped ham or tongue, or bacon fried and cut in little bits, suet, or marrow, eschalot, cayenne, salt, a chopped anchovy, bread-crumbs, a little walnut or oyster liquor, with egg to bind the composition. The meat of a lobster may be sub- stituted for the ham or fried bacon.—See Scottish Crappit Heads^ No. 747, and Fillets of Haddocks^ also French Cook- ery of Fish J Nos. 679 onward, 150. To Dress Plaice, Brill, or large Floimders. Clean, and, without washing, wipe the fish, and rub it with salt. When it has lain from six hours to a day, wash it, wipe it very dry, and rub with flour to absorb all the remaining damp. When the flour is rubbed off, brush it over with beat egg, and dip it in bread-crumbs, with a little finely-minced parsley. Fry it in plenty of lard, and when drained from the fat and dry, serve it on fried parsley, with anchovy-sauce, or melted butter sharp- ened with the juice of a lemon or Seville orange. 151. To Dress Pipers. Clean a very fresh fish without cutting it open too much. Stuff it with a forcemeat of two to three ounces of shred suet, and a large breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs, mixed with two eggs, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Sew in this stuffing, skewer the tail into