4:20 CHAPTER IV. PASTEY, PIES, PASTIES, PATTIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. Beasts of chase, or fowl, or game, In pastry built. Milton. Chimeras from the poet's fancy flow ; The cook contrives his shapes in real dough. King. That grand movement in cookery, to whicli the experiments of the St Ronan's Club have contributed not a little, has in some preparations produced almost an entire revolution. This mighty change is peculiarly visible in pastry. We have already, and repeatedly, spoken of the tendency of the age to simplicity, elegance, and true refinement, both in the preparation of all sorts of dishes, and in table embellish- ments. Careme^ a great cook, is great, indeed, as a pastry cook. Indeed he more excels in the entremets than the entrees. He might have peppered a cream-tart to Haroun Alraschid, though he might not have hit the taste of George III. in that monarch's plain, chervil-seasoned vermicelli soup; nor that of his more luxurious son in Turtle or Punch. French pastry-cooks have nearly as many kinds of paste for their several entremets as the meat-cooks have sauces for their entrees. They have their puff-paste, and half puff- paste, their beef-suet, and veal-suet paste, and their Sain- doux,—a particular paste for cold and for hot pies, for tim- bales, and for tarts,—their Brioche paste, and Nouille paste, and an endless variety more, which are made into cakes by mixing with the paste chopped filberts, pistachios, almonds, and many kinds of cheese. The Pate Royale we have given, No. 712. The French, however, are not such architects in pastry as they once were. Instead of immense castles, bridges, and cathedrals, they now content themselves with villas and cottages ornees. For some complicated and for- midable piece monteey trembling to its base, they now present us with pyramids of tasteful little vols-au-vent, huissons^ i.e.j bushes, — of tartlets, Dauphines, and Petites Bouchees of pastry: perhaps, through time, they may discard many of their imitation or mock entremets^ called en surprise^ doubt-