CHAP. V. OKNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 486 with a little salt till smooth and of the thickness wanted, adding water at first, if it be in danger of getting too stiff. A piece of butter is an improvement, and a little white sugar. Serve in a basin with milk, wine, cider, or cream. —Ohs. This, if allowed to become more sour, is neither more nor less than Scotch Sowens, and an excellent dish it is.—See Cookery for Invalids^ No. 1114^. 951. Rice-Flummery.—Mix a couple of spoonfuls of rice- flour with a little cold milk, and add to it a large pint of boiled milk sweetened and seasoned with cinnamon and lemon-peel. Two bitter almonds pounded will heighten the flavour. Boil this, stirring it constantly, and when of proper consistence, pour it into a mould or basin. When cold, turn it out, and serve with cream or thin custard round it, or with a sauce of wine, sugar, and lemon-juice.— This differs in nothing from rice blancmange^ except that rice-flour is used instead of unground rice. 952. Dutch Flummery^ or Yellow Flummery^ the French Jaune Mange, may be made as directed for blancmange, using well-beat yolks of eggs instead of cream. Colour with saffron. 954. Mille Feuilles, Italian Pyramid, Putt d^Amour.— This is the self-same thing, with different names. A good puff-paste, rather thick, must be stamped out with tin stamps, or any ingenious substitutes, into a number of pieces, each less than the other, the base being of the size of the plate on which the pyramid is to be raised, and the others gradually tapering. Bake separately the pieces of paste on paper laid on tins, and ice them. Pile them up, laying raspberry and other jams of different colours on the ledges, and a bunch of small preserved fruit or some suitable ornament to crown the pile. 955. Another way, from Beauvilliers.—^Take puff-paste, and roll it out as above; cut it with figured paste-cutters of different sizes; cut them equal in number, the large and small; put the large upon a baking-tin; wet with water, and put a small one on each large one; with the point of a knife cut them out in the middle the size of a thimble; put them into the oven, and, when nearly done, powder them with sugar; take out the cut middle [leaving a bottom, of course], replace it with sweetmeats, and serve.