93 LAMB. needful: it will take from one hour and a half to two hours. Young lamb, and none other, is fit for the use of a gastro- nome of high gout^—a hobble-de-hoy between lamb and mutton being even coarser than a three months' pig. Lamb, like pig, and indeed all young meat, should not be long kept, if the flavour and juices are to be obtained in perfection; time to cool is considered quite sufficient by knowing gourmands. It is true, the fibre may be thready^ but the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb killed for days. In roasting the hind-quarter, the flap of the loin may be stuffed, using the superfluous fat for the forcemeat.* House lamb requires more roasting than pasture or hill lamb. Sauce.—The gravy which flows from the meat after the first dripping has been poured out, with about a wine- glassful of boiling water and a little salt, run through the spit-hole; and cucumber or Mint-sauce. Serve spinage, French beans, cauliflower, or green pease with lamb; gar- nish with crisp parsley, or sprigs of cauliflower, and always serve a salad. The fore-quarter should be lightly jointed. Lamb must be well done. This and the knuckle of all roasts, or of a ham, ought to have a fringe of writing-paper twisted neatly round it. When the shoulder is removed, the carver is expected to squeeze a lemon, and to sprinkle a little salt over the ribs, or, if necessary, to put in a little melted butter; and to press the parts together to obtain gravy. N. B.—-A friend, who admires French cookery, recommends Maitre Hotel butter to be put under the shoulder. In Parisian cookery the lean parts of the lamb have thin slices of bacon papered over them while roasting. * This is an old Scottish practice, which Meg Dods called " Makin' a pouch." Dr Redgill, who patronized all receptacles for forcemeat, wheresoever placed, vowed that a " hind-quarter of lamb should never again be roasted in his kitchen without a pouch.''^ This protuberance must not be too large, else it might prove offensive to the eye,—an organ that ought to be diligently consulted in all matters connected with the table. '* Open the mouth, and shut the eyes," the maxim of a great modern gastronome, had certainly, Winterblossom said, been stolen from the luxurious picture of the Gude Wife of Auchtermuchty's Sow:— " And aye scho winked, and aye scho drankP Both Touchwood and Redgill rebuked the old beau for this irreverent sally against an authority for which the latter entertained the most pro- found respect,—to wit, Dr KiTcmNER. " On my recommendation, try for once the Scotch practice of delicate young mashed cabbage placed below this joint for a half-hour."—H. J.