85 SIRLOIN RUMP RIBS OF BEEF. side,* as it is commonly called in the northern division of the island, is by some esteemed the most delicate part. To this the carver must attend, and also to the equitable distribution of the fat. Cold roast beef is generally liked. The cold gravy should be served in a sauce-boat. Roast beef may be warmed in various ways. Slices may be warmed in a Dutch oven, and served with some of the gravy also v/armed, and seasoned rather highly with pepper and salt, anchovy, eschalot, or a teaspoonful of eschalot vinegar. Cold beef may also be dressed as Olives, or as a Fricassee, Cecils, Sanders, Bubble and Squeak, etc. N.B.—French cooks saw off the large bones, sprinkle the sirloin with olive-oil, and lay sliced onions and bay leaves over it, and leave it thus some days before roasting. They serve it, when roasted, with sauce-hacMe^ that is, chopped gherkins, mushrooms, capers, and an anchovy, all thrown into a brown sauce. Sirloin is, we think, better ordered at home. The French also braise the sirloin.—See Made- Dishes of Beef and Frencli Cookery of Beef 172. To Roast the Rump, or Part of it. Cut from the rump, chump-end, a handsome roast of from seven to ten or twelve pounds. Bone and roll it up nicely like a fillet of veal. It will take from three to five hours to roast, according to its thickness. 18. To Roast Ribs of Beef.—P. R., Esq. This piece of beef is garnished, and served with the same accompaniments as the sirloin. Both the ribs and the inside part of a large sirloin may be dressed in a more elaborate way as follows:—Cut out the ribs; beat the meat flat with a rolling-pin; lay it to soak in vinegar and wine for a night; cover it with a rich forcemeat, made of minced veal, suet, grated ham, lemon-peel, and mixed spices. Roll it tightly up, fixing it with small skewers and tape, and roast it, bast- ing constantly with wine and butter. Froth with fresh Sir Loin, and horseradish his brisk, fiery page, without which attendants he looked despoiled of his dignity and bearing. Yorkshire pudding is nearly the same as the Panade with which it was the ancient custom to baste roasts till they gathered a crust before the fire. * The French distinguish the different parts of the aloyau or sirloin as " the lawyer's bit and the cleric's.'''' The fillet alone makes a nice small roast. Whatever roasts will, when boned, make admirable stewed beef.