2C8 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. clean vessel. When cold, bottle it, and stop the bottles with corks dipped in bottle rosin. No. 1112.—Coclde-Catsup is made as above ; but as this has less flavour naturally, and is seldom used but for fish, a few pounded anchovies may be added to it. 369. Browning^ or Sugar-Catsup,—Pound very finely six ounces of the best refined sugar, and put the powder into a small and very clean fryingpan, with a glass of water. As it dissolves, mix well with a wooden spoon, and withdraw the pan from the fire when the fluid begins to boil violently; stir, and keep it thus till it has acquired the rich, dark- brown colour wanted. It may either be seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, catsup, etc., or not, but is generally more useful plain. When cold, skim the browning, and bottle it in vials for use.—Ohs, It is very difiicult, nay, almost impossible, to prepare browning free of an empyreu- matic flavour, which is necessarily communicated to the dish that is coloured with it. Where sauces can be coloured with the catsup, browned flour, and wine, which may be employed in making the dish, it is better to avoid sugar browning ; and soup may generally be made of a sufiiciently rich colour by slightly browning the meat and onions, and by the other means we have pointed out. Many cooks use onion-skins, which contain a yellow dye, to colour their soups; and it is a common, but slovenly practice, where browning is wanted in a hurry, to melt a knob of sugar between the hot bowls of tongs, and drop it into a little soup to colour the rest. This, on an emergency, may be useful, but the necessity ought to be avoided. Prepared Browning is sold. The eye^ however, is so important an organ in affairs of the table, that we are very tolerant of a drop or two of sugar-browning, whether in soups, sauces, or the gravy of roasts, where it seems wanted. Tomatas also will improve the colour, and to some tastes the flavour, of soups and sauces. See Nos. 253, 254. 370. Pickles. These are a class of culinary preparations about which the cook and notable housewife were wont to make no little bustle, and feel no small pride. Pickles are chiefly intended for a relishing accompaniment to many sorts of made-dishes.