485 DRESSED PEACHES. throw in a third of the small apples; give them a slight boil, take them off, and drain; do another third in cochineal, and the last in a syrup of white sugar, with an equal quan- tity of angelica as of the apples ; line the mould with white paper; make any design in the bottom with the red, green, yellow, and white apples ; fix them tastefully all round the mould to the top, and fill it up with marmalade; it ought to be firm and without any void.'^—Ohs, At grand dinners, dressed in the French style, roots are often cut in forms, and served in the above way. 947. Dressed Peaches.—Choose and wipe six very fine peaches. Simmer them for from six to eight minutes in a syrup made of five ounces of pounded sugar and a half-pint of water. Let them soak, covered, in the half of this, and with the other half, and what more fine pounded sugar is necessary, make a smooth thick marmalade either of ripe peaches or apricots, nectarines, or of best white apples. Have of this at least a pound and a quarter; place a layer of it in a glass dish :—Next pare, divide, and arrange the twelve half peaches handsomely on this, and place more marmalade to fill up the interstices. Boil rapidly down, adding lemon- juice, tlie syrup in which the peaches were soaked, and pour it over them. Border the dish either with small macaroons, or candied citron in thin straws if you prefer. The peaches may be scalded, peeled, and divided at first; but will keep shape better if treated as above directed. A marmalade of fine-flavoured white apples is by many preferred to one of peaches. Sweet Dislies of Eice; and Flummery. 948. Snow-halls. — Swell a half-pound of rice in water, with a roll of lemon-peel, till tender, and drain it. Divide it into five parts, and roll a pared small apple cored, and the hole filled with sugar and cinnamon, into each heap, tying each up tightly in separate cloths. Boil for an hour, untie carefully, and serve with pudding-sauce, No. 306. 949. Buttered i?/ce.—Swell the rice till tender in new milk. Pour ofi" the thick milk, and add melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon. Serve hot. 950. Oatmeal-Flummery.—Put finely-ground oatmeal to steep in water for three days. Pour off the thin of the first water, and add more water. Stir up, strain, and boil this