CIIETXEY- SAUCE CUSTARD-SAUCE. 251 more piquant, Chili vinegar may be added to the sauce. French cooks use saffron to colour curry-sauce and rice served with curries; boiling the saffron, and rubbing it through a sieve. Where a bright colour alone is desired, a tincture of saffron is less offensive than an overdose of turmeric. Saffron is often used to colour cakes, puddings, etc.; but ti should be used with caution. 302. Chetney or CliainL—This, like curry-powder, is a compound Indian preparation, made in twenty ways. It can now be got from the East, and is well prepared there for the great Italian warehouses of London. The following is considered a good receipt:—A half-pound of crab-apples, unripe buUaces, or quinces; four ounces of stoned rasins; four of treacle or brown sugar; two of best white ginger in powder; one of chilies, with salt enough to make the whole rather salt, and cayenne to make it very hot. Pound the hard ingredients separately, add the sugar and spices, and as much plain or Chili vinegar, or lemon-juice, as will make the sauce of the consistence of thick mustard. Mangoes, tamarinds, garlic, berries of the mountain-ash, sloes, and many pungent and bitter things, are occasionally put to this composition. The main ingredient of the Bengal Chetney is a vegetable resembling parsley, of a very disagreeable odour. It is called cotemear, 303. White Hash-Sauce, for Veal roasted or minced^ or for Fowls.—Take the bones, gristles, and white trimmings of the meat, stew them in clear weak broth or water, with a small onion, and a good piece of thinly-sliced lemon-peel, salt, a blade of mace, and a dozen white peppercorns. Thicken the gravy with flour rolled in butter, and when it is boiled quite smooth, let it settle, and strain it. A good squeeze of lemon, and a little fresh lemon-grate, is the only additional seasoning we would recommend; a spoonful of good cream may be added; and for fowls, a little more mace and less acid. This may be miade a curry hash sauce, by adding a small dessertspoonful of curry-powder, and with- holding part of the lemon juice and peel. 304. Custaed-Sauce,/or Eice, Bread, Sago, or Custard- Puddings, or Fruit Pies.—Stir a pint of sweet cream in a nice saucepan till it comes to boil. Mix with it the beat yolks of two eggs, first rubbed with a little cold cream, and some