480 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. pound of sweet and a half-ounce of bitter almonds, using a little rose-water to prevent oiling. Sweeten a pint or rather more of boiling sweet milk and another of cream, and mix these gradually with the beat yolks of six eggs, stirring them well as they cool. Rub the almond-paste throi gh a sieve to this, and set it to thicken in a jug plunged in boiling water (a useful precaution in making any egg-thickening), carefully stirring it. Pour it into a jug, and stir till it cools. Instead of boiling, this may be baked in cups, or in a dish with a lightly cut paste-border. Flour of rice may be used instead of almonds; and the name be Rice-Custards. 924. Cheap useful Custards^ or Rice-Blancmange,—Boil rice-flour in sweetened milk, with a stick of cinnamon. Stir till thick and smooth. Add to it (off the fire) gradually the whipt whites of eggs, three to a quart. Stir again over the fire till the whole are well mixed and cooked, for about two minutes. Fill small moulds or tea-cups, which, like all moulds for cold things, as creams, jellies, etc., should be soaked in cold water, and left wet. Make a plain custard of the yolks of the eggs, and sufficient sweetened and sea- soned milk, which may be boiled and laid aside before the rice-flour is added. Turn out the rice, and place a preserved cherry, or a little red currant jelly, or any red jam on the top of each shape. Pour the custard around them. 925. Lemon-Custards.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs as well as if for a cake, till they are a strong white cream. Mix in gradually a pint of boiling cream and the grated rind and juice of two lemons. Sweeten to taste, and stir this one way over the fire till it thicken, but do not let it boil. Add a glass of wine and a spoonful of brandy when the custard is almost ready. Stir till cool. Serve in cups, and grate nutmeg over. 926. Excellent common Custards,—Boil a quart of new milk with sugar, a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel, and a bay-leaf. Mix a spoonful of rice-flour with a little cold milk and the beat yolks of six eggs. Stir the whole gradu- ally into the boiling milk in a basin, and then let it thicken over the fire, but not boil. Pour it into a cold dish, and stir one way till cool. For bay-leaf a very little ratafia, cura^oa, or peach-water, may be put to flavour these custards. Grate nutmeg, or strew ground cinnamon lightly over the cups.