515 BREAKFAST-ROLLS. lescence, and to bake before the elFervescence has subsided, so that the cakes may rise lightly.—No. 1042^. 1040. To hake JBreaJcfast-EoHs,—To two pounds of flour put a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter-pint or less of fresh yeast, and as much warmed milk and water as will make a batter. Stir this well till it is smooth, and let it stand covered be- fore the fire to rise for two hours, if you have time to wait so long. Add as much more flour, into which you should have rubbed down what butter you mean to put to the rolls. Work the dough very smooth, divide it, and mould it into rolls; fire them on tins, and rasp and keep them covered. Half this quantity will be sufficient on ordinary occasions. 1041. Milk Scones for Bi^eakfast or Tea—Receipt of the Ken- noway Scone Club.—To a pint of thin cream add a teaspoon- ful of salt. Stir in flour till the paste is of a proper thickness. Knead it well; then roll it out thin, and bake on the girdle on a clear, slow fire. The scones are eaten with fresh butter. 1042. Muffins, — A pint of hot milk, a quarter-pint, or rather less, of fresh yeast. Stir in flour to make this a bat- ter. Let this repose covered in a warm place, to rise. Add a little more milk, two ounces of butter, rubbed in flour in very small bits, and then flour enough to make the dough. Mix, cover, and let it again repose a half-hour; when knead, divide, and mould the dough into muffins. Let them repose once more for a quarter of an hour, and then bake them.—N.B. These at a pinch may be baked on the Scotch girdle^ or in a thick-bottomed fryingpan, the cottage oven-pot, or American oven. 1042^. Unfermented Bread.—Bread which Dr Pereira, one of the latest wTiters upon the interminable subject of Diet, describes as " most delicious," is thus prepared :—Flour, one pound. Sesquicarbonate of soda, forty grains; cold water, half a pint, or as much as may be required. Muriatic acid of the shops, fifty drops; and a teaspoonful of powdered white sugar. Stir the supercarbonate of soda and the sugar among the flour in a basin with a wooden spoon. Put the acid to the water, and stir the whole briskly till intimately mixed. Divide the dough into two loaves, and bake imme- diately ; the sugar may be omitted. 1043. Brown Bread is made as No. 1039, with coarser flour, or a proportion of shealings or husks added to th^ flour.