433 FRUIT-PIES, ETC. the meat, so that we discountenance the practice. A Mock- venison pasty is made of a breast of mutton soaked in claret, vinegar, and spices for a night, before dressing. 802. Rook-Pie.—Skin the young birds; cut out the back- bones ; season the birds with pepper and salt. Lay a beef- steak in the bottom of the dish, and pour a good deal of thickened melted butter over the birds. Cover with a common crust. They require long baking: an hour and a half, and may with advantage be first stewed. For lark-pie and sparrow-pie, three or four dozen to one pie, we give no receipt. KB.—For Savoury Fish-Pies, see pages 189-91. 803. Sea-Pie. — Cut up into joints and blanch a fowl. Soak slices of salt beef. Make a thick, rich paste of flour and mashed potatoes, with butter or with dripping, or use flour or potato-paste separately, and made either with butter or dripping as convenient. Season with shred onion, pepper, and salt; and in a deep tin-buttered pudding-dish lay meat and paste, layer and layer alternately, till the dish is full. Fill up the dish with water, and let it either bake slowly, stew, or steam,—turn out and serve hot. A sea-pie is pro- perly a scrap-pie. Fruit-Pies, etc. Fruit-Pies require a light and rich crust. Fruits that have been preserved are generally baked in an open crust, and are ornamented with paste-bars, basket-work, stars, etc. Preserved fruits need not be put in till the crust is baked, as the oven often injures their colour.—See Flans. 804. Apple-Pie.—Wipe, pare, and slice the apples; core with the instrument. Lay a strip of puff-paste roimd the edge of the dish. Put in a layer of the sliced fruit, then sugar and whatever seasonings you use. A small mixture of quince greatly improves the flavour. Proceed in this manner till the dish is heaped, keeping the fruit highest in the middle. Cover it with puff-paste, ornament the border and the top with leaves, flowers, etc. — Ohs. A variety of apples besides codlins are used for baking, though russetings, Ribstone pippins, golden pippins, and such as melt equally, and are a little acid, are esteemed the best. Apple-pie used to be seasoned with pounded cinnamon and cloves; now lemon-grate, quince, marmalade, candied citron, or orange- peel, are preferred. If the apples have become dry and