HAGGIS, KAIL-BROSE, AND COCK-A-LEEKIE. 399 two spoonfuls of pounded and soaked rusks. Put this into the bag with the other materials, and the squeeze of a lemon, and when sewed up, toss it about to blend them all, and boil in water, or fresh broth if you have it; pricking the bag to let out the air, as in other receipts. Boil three hours. 723^. Haggis Royal.—We find this receipt for Haggis Royal in the Minutes of Sederunt of the St Ronan's Club ; —" Three pounds of leg of mutton chopped; a pound of suet chopped; a little, or rather as much beef-marrow as you can spare; the crumb of a penny loaf (our own nutty-flavoured, browned oatmeal is, by the way, far better); the beat yolks of four eggs; a half-pint of red wine; three mellow fresh anchovies boned : minced parsley, lemon grate, white pepper, crystals of cayenne to taste,—crystals alone ensure a perfect diffusion of the flavour,—blend the ingredients well: truss them neatly in a veal-caul; bake in a deep dish, in a quick oven, and turn out. Serve hot as fire, with brown-gravy or venison-sauce.^' 724. Scottish Fat Brose.—Boil an ox-head, sheep's head, ox-heel, or shin of beef, till an almost pure oil floats on the top of the pot. Have some oatmeal well toasted before the fire, as in making haggis; put a handful of the meal into a basin with salt, and, pouring a ladleful of the fat broth over it, stir it quickly up with the handle of a spoon, so as not to run into one doughy mass, but to form knots, 725. Kail'Brose is made as in the above receipt, but of very fat broth in which shred greens, kail, have been boiled. 726. Cock-a-leekie.—Boil from four to six pounds of good shin-beef, well broken, till the liquor is very good. Strain it, and put to it a capon, or large fowl, trussed as for boiling, and, when it boils, half the quantity of blanched leeks in- tended to be used, well cleaned, and cut in inch-lengths, or longer. Skim this carefully. In a half-hour add the re- maining part of the leeks, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. The soup must be very thick of leeks, and the first part of them must be boiled down into the soup till it be- acomes a lubricous compound. Sometimes the capon is erved in the tureen with the soup. This makes good leek- soup without a fowl.—Some people thicken cock-a-leekie with the flour of oatmeal. Those who dislike so much of the leeks may substitute German greens, or spinage, for one-