27 ST eonan's culinaky club. a chance-dinner—lie in general detested chance-dinners— when Mr Jekyl, in his fishing-jacket and wet shoes, lounged into the room. Certain reasons made an absence from the metropolis convenient to the young gentleman at this time. He was therefore still at St Ronan's, and was become rather intimate with the Nabob, who, like Sir Peter Teazle with his young friends, never grudged him his good advice. The young gentleman bore the rebuke, which his want of punctuality drew upon him, with entire nonchalance^ sur- veyed the board with an air of half-supercilious scrutiny, and then ordered the female waiter to carry his compliments to Mistress Dods, and say that Mr Touchwood would be particularly obliged by the re-appearance of the excellent roast-beef he had had yesterday, and a few slices of cold carrot. The Nabob and the facetious Winterblossom, who, it may be remembered, was the most pleasant companion in the world, albeit he did not value at a pin's point any crea- ture on its surface, were well accustomed to these high flings in the young man, and gave themselves no manner of con- cern; but Dr Redgill, who was really, as we have said, a good-natured man, and who—after dinner—had bowels even for an unpunctual fisher, took compassion on the gentleman- like young officer, and recommended the hraised fowl, " hot yet, hardly touched,"—the pig the Doctor kept as a special preserve. It would be admirable to-morrow, re-dressed au Bechamel. The young man was politely grateful, but invin- cible. Most elaborately did he mix up a relish, compounded of made mustard, eschalot-vinegar, catsup, and horse-radish, for his cold regale; and plateful after plateful was swal- lowed, the Doctor looking on in silent admiration, not un- mixed with envy, and resolving at supper to try this inviting beef, since, unfortunately, a man that lunches cannot com- fortably eat two dinners in the same day. The toper cer- tainly has here advantage of the gourmand. And now the clash of plates had ceased, the ringing of tumblers was no more; and as next in degree to the eating