COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 569 very agreeable mess either for breakfast or a light supper—where sappers are taken.* CHEAP DISHES. Some of the subjoined receipts were published during a period of scarcity. They are applicable at every time, as the preparations, besides being frugal, are savoury and healthful. The first nine are attributed to a lady whose pen has been usually devoted to sacred subjects, but who has not disdained to employ her talents in improv- ing the manners and increasing the domestic comforts of the humblest of her brethren—Mrs Hannah More. The rest are original. 1165. Cheap Milk-Rice.—A quart of skim milk, a quarter of a pound of rice, with sugar, and a little Jamaica pepper will make a cheap and a dainty dish. Swell the rice first with water. 1166. Bice-Pudding.—Two quarts of skim milk, a half-pound of rice, and two ounces of brown sugar. N.B.—A little shred suet, salt, and a very little ginger, will make this excellent.—Ed. 1167. Mrs White's Cheap Stew.—"I remember," said Mrs White, " a cheap dish, so nice that it makes my mouth water. I peel some raw potatoes, slice them thin, put the slices into a deep fryingpan or pot, with a little water, an onion, and a bit of pepper. Then I get a bone or two of a breast of mutton, or a little strip of salt pork, and put it into it. Cover it down close, keep in the steam, and let it stew for an hour." 1168. Herring and Potatoes.—Take two or three pickled herrings, wash and put them into a stone-jar, fill it up with peeled potatoes and a little water, and let it bake in the oven till it is done. [This dish is made in Scotland in a close-covered pot by boiling. Place the her- rings uppermost.—Ed.'\ 1178. Stew-Soup.—Two pounds of beef, four onions, ten turnips, half a pound of rice, a large handful of parsley, thyme, and savory; some pepper and salt; eight quarts of water. Cut the beef in slices, and after it has boiled some time, cut it still smaller. The whole should boil gently about two hours on a slow fire. If fuel be scarce, it may be stewed all night in an oven, and warmed up next day. You may add oatmeal or potatoes. Gray pease will be a great addition. [Too much turnip.—Ed.] 1170. —Another. Take half a pound of beef, mutton, or pork, cut it into small pieces; half a pint of pease, four sliced turnips, six potatoes cut very small, two onions or leeks; put to them seven pints of water. Let the whole boil gently over a very slow fire two hours and a half. Then thicken it with a quarter of a pound of oatmeal. After the thickening is put in, boil it a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time ; then season it with salt and pepper. [Too much oatmeal.—Ed.] 1171. Stew-Soup of Salt Meat.—Take two pounds of salt beef or pork, cut it into very small bits, and put it into a pot with six quarts * These observations were made in an earlier edition, when the public were hored with potato-flour. The failure of the root has put a stop to this.