477 JELLIES. 913. Apple-Jelly.—Take as many fine-flavoured, juicy apples as you want; or if for a shape, what will yield a quart of juice. Without paring, save black or bad parts, slice, core, and throw them into spring water. The skins yield jelly and flavour, but dim the colour. Stew till the fruit is soft but not quite a pulp. Strain through a coarse cotton cloth suspended over a dish; and, if needful, strain again. Take equal weight of clear juice and sugar boiled to blowing height. Boil the jelly ten minutes, try it, and season it with lemon grate and juice. This jelly, if for preserving, should be made early in the autumn, before the apples get too mellow, but will answer on till D3cember; much depend- ing on the kinds of fruit. It must be borne in mind that, though lemon-juice greatly improves the flavour of this and other jellies, and of orange-marmalade, it is apt, when much is used, to granulate the sugar, or make the jelly muddy. Blowing height^ No. 962. 914. Peacli-Jelly.—Scald, peel, divide, and stone eighteen peaches. Break the stones, and take out the kernels. Boil the peaches and bruised kernels in clarified syrup for a quarter of an hour. Season with the juice and grate of four fresh lemons. Run it through a jelly-bag, add an ounce of clarified isinglass, and fill the mould, which must be plunged in ice. Jellies of Red Fruits in Shapes, for Dessert. Make all these with clarified isinglass, and do not boil them so long as jellies for preserving, as the colour will suffer. One direction may serve for all. 915. Raspherry-Jelly for a Shape.—Put fresh-picked fruit with a third red currants into an earthenware mortar, with pounded sugar. Mash them well. Put in a little water, run this through a jelly-bag, and stir in what you think a sufficient quantity (about an ounce to the quart) of clarified isinglass. Fill your mould.—0^5. Strawherry^ Red Currant^ and Cherry Jelly^ are all made as above:—for cherries and strawberries, add a little lemon-juice ; and also for the other fruits, if mawkishly sweet with over-ripeness. 917. Venus's Jelly.—Boil a half-pound of hartshorn-shav- ings in two quarts of water, till reduced a half. Strain, and boil up in this the thin rind of three china oranges, and