83 ROASTING. " might astonish a Roman as much as one of their crammed peacocks would ourselves. Gluttony produces monsters, and turns away from nature to feed on unwholesome meats." When meat of this description is to be dressed, it is an object of economy to save the superfluous fat, which makes so much of the weight. Besides what is cut off, the dripping- pan, during the first hour of roasting, may be emptied of its oily contents once or twice, and abundance remain for basting. Dripping put aside in this manner will be much fitter for all culinary purposes, whether for pease-soup, pie-crust, or for frying fish, than that which has acquired an empyreumatic taste, either from burning cinders, or being exposed to the action of a fierce heat. This disagreeable flavour, or the unsalutary qualities which it betokens, make an epicure reject all dripping with abhorrence, for any use except making coarse pastry, or frying fish, common fritters, patties, and rissoles. The improved Cleikum dripping-pan, from a drawing by Winterblossom, was made of ample dimensions, and with high sloping ledges. It was furnished with a covered fountain, and a conduit to allow the super- fluous dripping to be easily taken away. In tlie Cleikum kitchen, the dripping was immediately clarified for future use. [See No. 44.] If meat is at all of good quality, and roasted with care, it will afford a plentiful supply of good gravy, the natural and best sauce that can accompany it. To the gravy which flows from the meat, the best addition, as we have found after repeated experiments, is a little boiling water (a large cupful for ten pounds) and salt, poured through the hole from Avhich the spit is withdrawn, and then gently laved on the browned outside under parts of the roast. Some good frugal cooks remove the roast, and wash and melt down all the crisp crust, which forms in the dripping-pan, in boiling water, which is again boiled, strained, and poured as above over the roast, thus making an excellent gravy with much of the osmazome^ the charm of the roast, in it. To the gravy of venison and veal, when found scanty, which will sometimes be the case, a little thin melted butter may be added in preference to drawn gravies. The dishes for roasts should be furnished with a gravy foun- tain, for utility as well as neatness. The jelly gravy that flows from young meats, the very essence of meat, ought to be carefully preserved, as it forms the most delicate of all