OF VEAL. 305 meat of the scrag minced (which is generally cut off with the head in Scotland) will make a great addition to the ragout. The heads may be glazed before being crumbed.— For Lamb's Head^ See No. 748^ 458. To Fricassee a Calf's Head.—Clean and parboil the head; cut the cheeks, tongue, palate, etc., into nice bits, and stew them in a rich white gravy, with a little of the broth in which the head was parboiled, seasoned with white pepper, mace, herbs, onion, and salt. Thicken with butter rolled in flour, and, just before dishing the fricassee, add a little hot cream or beat yolk of egg and lemon-juice. Simmer this, but do not allow it to boil. Garnish with brain-cakes and forcemeat-balls, or curled slices of toasted bacon, and egg-balls. 459. To Hash a Calfs Head.—Clean and parboil the head; or take what is left of a plainly-boiled cold head, and cut it into slices of a rather larger size than for fricassee. Peel and slice the tongue. Take upwards of a quart of the liquor in which the head was boiled, with the bones, trimmings, and a shank of veal or mutton, and boil these for the hash- stock, with a fagot of sweet herbs, a good bit of lemon-peel, onions, and white pepper. Boil this gravy till it is strong and well-flavoured. Thicken it with flour kneaded in butter, and strain it into a clean saucepan. Season it with pounded mace, catsup, or lemon-pickle, or a little of any piquant store- sauce, and warm up the hash, without sufl'ering it to boil, though boiling will not harm calfs head so much as it does other cold meats. Garnish with forcemeat-balls, or curled slices of bacon, or fried bread, which forms a suitable accom- paniment to all hashes.—Ols. This hash may be rendered more piquant by anchovy, pickled oysters, etc. It may be dressed as a curry-hash by the addition of fried onions and curry-povjder ; or receive the flavour of a French dish, from finely-shred parsley, knotted marjoram, and a bit of tarragon being added to the sauce just before dishing; or a little tarragon-vinegar. It may also be flavoured agreeably with a little basil-wine. A broivn hash may be made as above by using fried onion, catsup, soy, a little red wine, etc.; but as all brown made-dishes are expected to be piquant, while those that are white are usually bland and balsamic, season- ings of a more pungent quality are to be used.* * In France, eschalot-sauce is served with a plain dressed calf's head ; but the favourite mode of dressing this dish is superhe. Make a forcemeat