CHAP. VII.—FISH. 172 down, and the soft part pounded. Simmer this sauce for / five minutes, and skim it well; wipe clean the edges of the dish in which the fish is crisping, and pour the half of the sauce around it, serving the rest in a tureen. Garnish with fried oysters, small fried flounders, pickled samphire, or slices of lemon. Cod^s head is also dressed with a brown sauce, made of the stock, or with butter nicely browned, and a little mushroom-catsup. This sauce is generally made more piquant than the white, by the addition of two boned anchovies.—Obs. This Scotch mode of dressing cod is nearly the same as the French Cabillaud d, la Sainte Menehouldj only the cod is then stuffed with a forcemeat either of meat or fish. Cod may be parboiled and finished in the oven with the above sauce.— Oysters, Mussels, or Cockles, may supply the place of Lobster,—See No. 184. 123. Boiled Cod or Haddock with Shrimp-Sauce. Cut off the tail of cod, which would be useless before the other part is enough done. But if a large dish is wanted, place the tail-cut in the belly. Rub well with salt inside without washing; let it lie from one to two days, and wash and boil slowly in plenty of water, with a handful of salt. Drain the fish, serve it on a napkin, and garnish with the boiled roe and liver, or small flounders or whitings, nicely fried,—or with parsley only. Serve shrimp-sauce. The tail-cut may lie in salt for a few days, and be boiled and served with egg-sauce, or parsnips mashed with butter and cream, or it may be broiled fresh, or fried in fillets or slices, and served with oyster or shrimp sauce; or, grandly, with a sauce made of half a pint of veal-gravy, a glass of red wine, a boned anchovy chopped, white pepper and salt, and a few pickled oysters, and thickened with a little flour kneaded in butter. Boil up and skim the sauce ; place the slices neatly on the dish, and pour it around them. In Scotland, where cod is comparatively cheap, only the middle-cut is taken for a company dish; and is boiled, skinned, crumbed, browned before the fire, and served as above with oyster or shrimp sauce. Large or Dublin Bay Haddocks are cooked and served as cod. The French make entrees de desserte of cold cod as of turbot. These fish may be used as above quite fresh, but are improved by a night in salt. See French Cookery of Fish, from 679 onward.