340 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. it. They may be poached in butter or gravy, and neatly served in silver tablespoons. See Nos. 674^, 675, 676, and 737. 567. To Fry Eggs.— Carefully break the eggs into a small fryingpan, in which is melted butter, and have ready some butter fried in another pan to ladle over them. Fry them at a good distance above the fire.—See No. 51. 568. Mushroom and Egg Dish.—Slice, fry, and drain some large onions, and a few button-mushrooms. Slice hard-boiled eggs, the yolks and white separately, and either simmer the whole in fresh butter with pepper, salt, mustard, and eschalot-vinegar, or in good gravy. Put in the sliced yolks last, and only let them remain about a minute. Serve very hot, and garnish with curled parsley and a few light rings of the white of the eggs. 569. Swiss Eggs.—Mix two ounces of grated cheese and two of melted butter with six beat eggs. Season with salt, pepper, shred parsley, and young onions. Cook the mixture lightly in the fryingpan. Brown the upper side with a salamander, and serve very hot. 570. To Butter Eggs.—Beat six eggs well up in a basin. Set two ounces of fresh butter to melt in another basin placed in boiling water. Stir the eggs and butter together; add pepper and salt, and a finely-minced onion, if it is liked. Pour the mixture into a small saucepan, and toss it over a slow fire for a few seconds, then pour it into a large basin; skink the mixture backwards and forwards, setting it on the fire occasionally, but keeping it constantly briskly agitated till thickened. Serve on toasts, or as an accompaniment to salt fish, or red herrings. This is the Scotch rumbled eggs^ and the French oeufs brouilles, 571. Scotch Eggs.—Five eggs make a dish. Boil them hard. Shell and dip them in beat egg, and cover them with a forcemeat made of grated ham, chopped anchovy, crumbs, mixed spices, etc. Fry them nicely in good clarified dripping or lard, and serve them with a gravy sauce separately.— Obs. Eggs may be boiled half-hard, peeled, wrapped in pufF- paste, dipped in egg and crumbs, fried and served as a corner-dish or supper-dish. Eggs for a small dish may also be boiled hard, sliced, and served in a white ragout-sauce,