222 CHAP. VIII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. paste dressed and served in the same way. III. Turkey and kidney beans, in all their varieties, soaked and plainly boiled till thoroughly cooked, and then strained^ and heated up in a saucepan with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, before serving. IV. Carrots and turnips suggest them- selves, and parsnips have again come into favour, both for soup and to eat with salt meat and salt fish. Carrots and turnips boiled separately, No. 200, drained, and mashed up together, with pepper, salt, and a very little butter or stock, are an excellent accompaniment to plain roast or boiled joints, and a dish recommended for convalescents or those restricted to vegetable diet; tomatas and Jerusalem arti- chokes are also good substitutes. Y. Plain flour dump- lings, dough-nuts, or Devonshire dough-boys, boiled with meat or in water; and flour and oatmeal dumplings with suet, which may either be eaten alone or with meat; also Yorkshire pudding, and mashed young cabbage, put below roasts of lamb or mutton, in the same way as potatoes mashed. VI. Portugal onions stewed, and chestnuts as dressed plainly in Spain and the south of France, or stewed in stock, is another good substitute. [To cook ChestnutSy see No. 231^.) The white haricot bean, so much admired in France, is another admirable substitute, while young. Bakers now sell dough as readily as bread, which is found very useful; as cheap dumplings, dough-nuts, and meat-puddings, can thus be easily prepared. Meat-Puddings, which, whether for economy or savouri- ness, are most valuable preparations, have rapidly increased in favour since the failure of the potato, and so have plain mild curries. See No. 766—which is as good for family as for camp cookery—and other receipts. The failure of the potato, which first, on a great scale, brought to this country from the United States the blessing of Indian corn meal and buck-wheat, inundated us with American receipts for preparing the meal. On these, many of which were mere varieties of the same thing,—distinc- tions without difl'erence, save in name,—English cooks and housekeepers have improved. The most approved of these receipts we give in the sections, Puddings, Calces, and Bread ; and as a substitute for potatoes, a plain cheap accompani- ment to meat, we know of no recipes better than those which we subjoin; first prefixing a few general remarks on the