359 SOUPS. tlie tureen, and over them pour strong, clear, well-seasoned, boiling beef-stock broth. 614. German Cabbage-Soup. — Mince parboiled white cabbages. Stew them in butter, and serve them in strong stock (No. 63), with toasted bread cut in dice. 615. Potage Printanier^ or Spring-Soup.—Cut young car- rots, turnips, celery, and onions into small dice. Fry them gently, and drain and boil them slowly in clear veal-stock, with a bit of browned sugar. Boil separately very green asparagus-tops, and French beans cut as small diamonds, also very green pease. Mix the whole and serve. 616. Potage d la Carrierani^^ by H. J.—For this soup, to make it in perfection, the cook must have genuine Naples macaroni, the best Parmesan cheese, and mellow Dutch butter, with two dozen livers of fat pullets, celery, turnips, parsnips, leeks, carrots, parsley, and young onions. Mince the livers, the celery, and the blanched pot-herbs very well, and stew them altogether in butter. Meanwhile boil the macaroni twelve minutes; season it with white pepper and fine spices, and drain it well. You must now (to do the thing in style) have a soup-dish that will bear the fire ; spread over it a layer of macaroni, next a layer of the cooked mincemeat, then a layer of grated Parmesan. Proceed in this order till the soup-dish is filled sufficiently, and end with grated Parmesan. Place the dish on embers, and let it simmer slowly for an hour, and send to table. Frencli Dishes which are Served in Tureens, or other Soup-Dishes in the First Course. 617. Civet of Hare^ a favourite Dish,—Cut the hare into small pieces, and carefully save the blood. Cut some firm white bacon into small cubes, and give them a light fry with a bit of butter. Strain the gravy they give out, and thicken it with browned flour dusted over it in the stewpan. Put aside the bits of bacon, and place the cut hare in the stew- * There is an immense quantity of gastrology in our late fashionable novels; not always very judiciously given, nor with very profound or accurate knowledge of that mystery in which we profess ourselves adepts, but with so much apparent good will and even enthusiasm for the science as to disarm criticism. Among the compositions lauded, with at least as much zeal as knowledge, is M. Camerani's celebrated soup, A dish of this soup has cost five pound^s! How can it fail to be good ?