317 OF VENISON. 500. Pigs' Pettitoes.^Boil the feet till tender; boil also the harslet as directed in lamb's head. Mince the harslet {i. e, pluck), and season and serve with the feet over it; garnish with sippets.—LamVs Trotters^ No. 480. Made-Dislies of Venison. 501. To Stew a Shoulder of Venison when too lean to roast, —Bone the meat when it has been kept long enough. Flat- ten it, and lay over it thin slices of fat well-flavoured mutton. Sprinkle with plenty of mixed spices, and roll it up very tight. Stew it slowly in rich beef or mutton gravy, in a close stewpan that will just hold it. Add, when nearly finished, pepper, cayenne, allspice, and a half-pint of claret or port. When the venison is tender, which will be in about three hours, take off the bandages, and dish it, pouring the strained gravy hot over it. Serve with venison-sauce.— Ohs, A few slices of mutton, or two or more shanks well broken, may be put to the gravy to enrich it. A breast of venison may be dressed as above, but is better as a pasty. 502. Venison Collops, a Scotch Dish.—Cut the meat in thin cutlets; season them highly with mixed spices, and having browned them in the stewpan, put to them a quar- ter-pint of strong brown gravy, the same quantity of claret, some fried crumbs, a little fine sugar, and a half-glass of white wine vinegar. Stew slowly in a close-covered stew- pan, and pour over the collops the strained sauce. They may first be marinaded in the wine, vinegar, and spices. —Obs. Venison makes the finest-flavoured minced collops, surpassing either beef or hare; and excellent steaks, when seasoned, dipped in butter, rolled in crumbs, and broiled or fried quickly. But these steaks require a gravy-sauce, un- less the venison be very fat.—See Nos. 55, 22, and 21. 502^. Baked Venison, an excellent Mode,—Grate the crumb of a penny loaf, to which put a half-pint of white wine, a glass of vinegar, the grated rind of a Seville orange, nutmeg, salt, a quarter-pound of sugar, and a half-pound of butter. Steep the meat (a breast or shoulder) in this, and bake and serve with venison-sauce. 503. Civet of Venison,—Cut the back-ribs, or breast, into small chops. Fry some pieces of good bacon in butter, and,