349 ANGLO-FRENCH DINNERS. are handed round; and more of them should be placed in the dish. We shall give a bill for a French-English dinner, which ought to content the great Careme himself. Top.—Hare soup, d la St George, Remove. — Boiled Turkey, with celery-sauce.—Epergne. Bottom.—Slices of turbot, with lobster-sauce. Two Flancs.—Tongue glazed, and neck of lamb d la Maitre Hotel. Four entrees for the corners.—1 st, Tendons de veau, with tomata-sauce; 2d, Fillets of chickens, with cucumbers; 3d, Salmi of grouse; 4th, Fillets of rabbit, with mushrooms. Sauces and vege- tables on the side-table. For the Second Course.—Top.—A pheasant with cresses. Bottom.—Smaller birds of some game sort. Two Flancs.— Nesselrode pudding; and a pyramid of pastry. Entremets, 1st, Pine-apple jelly; 2d, Bavaroise of apricots; 3d, Pears in rice ; 4th, Omelets a la Celestine.—These bills may be multiplied and varied ad infinitum.—Besides the divisions of dishes we have enumerated, the French-English kitchen has its Fish, its Vegetable, and its savoury dishes. In France the savoury dishes are served in the first course only; but in England they are, at convenience, served with either the first or second course ; and are equally ap- propriate to luncheons, collations, dejeuners d la fourchette, and suppers. Large savoury dishes consist of large game- pies ; cold tongues ornamented, cold hams decorated, galan- tines of different sorts, cutlets of mutton, veal, or lamb, dressed in various ways: cold and hot savoury pies; salads of all sorts of game and of lobsters; Mayonnaise or gratins of lobster, soles, and oysters; cold salmon and trout, cooked in a marinade; and an endless number of savoury and piquant things in character resembling hoi^s d^ceuvres, but differing in size, and in the manner of serving. The above gives a general idea of the grand divisions in French cookery. In that cookery there is much that is admirable, and in the cooks themselves much that is fantas- tical or positively absurd. Yet a French salad is a very good preparation, though there are so many trifling, ela- borate, and really nonsensical ways employed to decorate it. English cooks must use their discretion in adopting those finical and endless fillets of egg and anchovies, and bits of carved carrot, alternated with morsels of beet, which the