330 CHAP, I. MADE-DISHES. set it to evaporate in an oven or before the fire, so that every grain may be distinct, and yet the whole tender enough to eat. When over-boiledj the rice may, after draining, be smoothed, brushed over with yolk of egg, and coloured in the oven,—though this necessity ought never to be courted. Handle it very lightly. Spooning spoils it,—toss it lightly up with two forks. It may be moulded in a shape, with the curry served in the heart of ^t.—See National Dishes^ and No. 209. 536. To Boil Bice nearly M, Soyer^s^ or the Beforni Club- way.—Like ourselves, the ex-Chef of the Reform Club pre- fers Carolina to Patna rice. Wash what is wanted of the best Carolina rice in two waters. Throw it into sufficient boiling water and boil till three parts done, when drain. Butter the inside of a stewpan, into which tumble the drained rice: fix the lid tight, and set the stewpan on a trivet in a warm oven until the rice is quite tender. Dish it lightly. Another approved way.—Boil in water three pints to the half pound. When getting soft drain off half the boiling water, and replace it with cold. Add salt. Shake the rice briskly, to separate the giains. When done drain off the water, and place the pan of rice before the fire to swell and dry. 537. Hindostanee Mode of Boiling Rice.—After picking, soak the rice in cold water a quarter of an hour. Strain and put it into boiling water, which shall rise three inches above the rice. Cover, and boil about six minutes, skim- ming when necessary. Add a gill of sweet milk for each pound of rice^ and in two minutes more remove the pot from the fire; strain without squeezing; return it dry into the pot upon a slow fire, pour over it half an ounce of melted butter mixed with a spoonful of the hot water in which the rice was boiled, and in six minutes it will be ready for table. —From an Indian Correspondent. 538. Brain-Balls and Brain-Calces for Made-Dishes.— These may be made whether for lamb's or calf s head by the- same process. Clear the brains of all the fibres and skins that hang about them, and, having scalded them, beat them up in a basin with the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of bread-crumbs, another of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, and a small dessertspoonful of finely-shred parsley, and if