CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 572 pudding, or any sucli dish may be cooked, and a loaf may be baked. The lid may also be laid over embers, in the grate, and the pot in- verted over it forms an oven. Still this is not cheap cookery; and though several interesting ex- periments have been made, especially in cooking by gas, we cannot perceive that, since the era of Count Rumford, any great advance, as regards the poor, has been made in economizing fuel and labour; though culinary processes are certainly rendered more easy to the servants of the wealthy. How great a benefactor of his species would that man be, who should enable the poor to obtain, at a cheap rate, a regulated degree of warmth in their dwellings, and to combine with this the advantages of the best processes of cookery. Economical Maxims of ancient Tusser, the first English writer on Domestic Economy, and author of " The Points of Good Hus- bandry and Housewiferyy " Save wing for a thresher when gander doth die Save feathers of all things the softer to lie: Much spice is a thief, so is candle and fire; Sweet sauce is as crafty as ever was friar. Save droppings and skimmings whatever ye do, For medicine, for cattle, for cart, and for shoe." From the maxims of this worthy, it would appear that the jolly English yeoman of the sixtenth century fared fully as well as the gentleman-farmer of the nineteenth—so far as substantials go—and his servants a great deal better. For the yeoman and his household's Lenten diet, Tusser recommends red herrings and salt fish. At Easter, veal and bacon; and at Martinmas, when dainties were no longer to be had, contentment with salted beef. At midsummer, when mackerel went out, there was fresh beef and salads; at Mich- aelmas, fresh herrings and old crones (ewes); at All Saints, pork and pease, sprats, and sparlings; and at Christmas, in Old England! Merry England! all good cheer and play ; with good drink, a rousing fire in the farmer's hall, brawn, puddings and souse, and mustard withal; beef, mutton, pork, and minced pies of the best; pig, veal, capon, goose, " turkey, and the chine;" cheese, apples, nuts,—and, to crown all, "jolly carols and stout ale."—Peace be with thy memory, Thomas Tusser! From the same genial and judicious person we learn, that in those Catholic times it was customary, and of ancient prescription, that twice a-week the farmer should give his servants roast meat, namely, on Thursday and Saturday evening. He, at the same time, restricts the Yeoman and Franklin's family-dinner to three dishes, " which, being well dressed, will be sufiicient to please your friend and grace your hall." Servants are ordered to bed at ten in summer and nine in winter, and to rise at four in summer and five in dark mornings. There are to be fritters and pancakes for dinner on Shrove-Tucsday; and on wake-day, the vigil of the saint to whom the parish church is dedicated, when every wanton may dance at her will," the oven is to be filled with flaunes. The seedcake is to grace the end of seed- time, and the harvest-home goose never to be neglected.—Why did not Cobbett give us a new edition of ancient Tusser ?