COFFEE. 557 cylinder with boiling water; place the percolator by the fire, or over a hot-water dish, and, when the coffee has filtered through, pour in again as much water as will make the quantity required. N.B.—This process may appear tedious in detail, but nothing is more simple and easy in daily practice. In about five minutes coffee may be made for four or five persons. When the filtered coffee is poured into a small vessel, brought to the boiling point, and again returned to the cylinder, and filtered a second time, it is exactly the coffee of the Society of Gourmands,—No. 1135. 11342. Our Latest Experiments.—Since the Seventh edi- tion of this Manual was published, the art of coffee-making has been carried nearly to perfection in this country, by the application of steam to the coffee-powder, previous to making the infusion. This is done in a simple and easy way, by means of the Steam Filter,—a discovery for which the coffee-drinking world is indebted to a Member of the St Ronan's Club. The Steam Filter is adapted to every existing form of coffee-pot. The cook or amateur proceeds thus: To make Coffee with the Steam Filter.—The powder, according to the degree of strength desired, is placed in the filter (formed of iron-wire or silver-wire), and shaken level. It is then, for two or three minutes, accord- ing to the quantity, placed in the mouth of the tin steamer, that the steam may pass freely through the powder. The filter is then placed in the mouth of the coffee-pot or per- colator (previously heated), and the boiling water poured over in the ordinary way. It will now be found that the steam has dislodged the air from the coffee-powder, and that the water will pass through the stratum of coffee-pow- der so quickly, that it may be imagined the virtue is not extracted from the material. The result, however, proves that the infusion is perfectly clear, comparatively strong, and highly aromatic, though not so deep in colour as coffee prepared by a slower process of filtration. It is ascertained that deep-coloured coffee is strong to the eye only, while that of a paler tint possesses all the grateful and aromatic qualities of the berry, without the disagreeable astringent bitter connected with the colouring matter of the coffee, and which attends too great torrefaction and slow filtration. The powder may be heated or roasted in a stewpan.