392 CHAP. IL—FRENCH COOKERY. French Paste and Pastry for Entremets. There is no end to the varieties of paste which French pastry-cooks prepare, nor yet to the infinity of preparations to which the different sorts are appUed. We give a small selection and the best of the pastes. Study from Nos. 771 to 779, and also 820. 712. Paste-Royal^ to make.—Put four ounces of butter into a stewpan with a large glassful of water, two ounces of beat sugar, and a bit of lemon-peel. When the butter is nearly melted, shake some dry flour to it through a fine sieve. Take out the lemon-peel, and with your hand strew in as much more flour as the boiling liquid will absorb, stirring briskly with a wooden spoon, till it come easily from the sides of the stewpan. Put it into another pan. Let it cool. Break an egg into it, and stir it well to mix, and afterwards three or four more eggs, stirring till the paste becomes tenacious and smooth. This is used for many small articles, as Pains d la Duchesse^ Choux, Chantilly baskets; in short, it may be moulded or stamped into any form, according to the ingenu- ity of the cook. The things made of it, when arranged on paper, may be iced, baked in a moderate oven, and dried before the Are. This paste swells very much, which must be considered in forming things of it.—See Paste^ No. 771-79. 713. Choux of Paste-Royal.—Form the choux in the shape of balls larger than children's marbles. Bake in a moderate oven. Dry them, and make a small opening in the side, into which put a little of any sweatmeat you like. 714. Pains d la Duchesse.—Make as the chouxj but larger, and flatten them with the rolling-pin to the length of four inches. When baked, slit them open at the end, and intro- duce the sweatmeat. 715. Les Gimhlettes d VArtois.—Make as the cJioux, but give them a deep dint in the middle before baking. Widen this by turning your finger round in it. Sift sugar over them when just done ; glaze with a salamander, and put the sweetmeat into the cavity. 716. Les Petits Choux et les Gimhlettes Pralines.'^—Make them rather smaller than above directed; and before baking, but when glazed, sprinkle finely-chopped sweet almonds and sugar over them, and garnish with sweetmeats, as the others. * What we would call confycted.