228 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND EOOTS. centre. Plovers' and sea-birds' eggs are used to ornament salads; and are admired for their opal and pearly tints. So are the root-flowers introduced by the French, and now to be had of our own green-grocers and fruiterers. These are Provence roses of white turnip, red roses of beet, and ranun- culuses of carrot, which are pretty to look at, and then to throw away. Salads admit of many elegant decorations of contrasted colours; as scraped horseradish, squirted and fairy butter, young radishes, etc., etc. See No. 1201. 240. To Dress Cucumbers,—Pare the cucumbers, and with a penknife cut the slices into small skeins (the length of the dish) wound up; sprinkle slightly with cayenne and drain. Dress the ribbons along the dish, and pour Chili vinegar over them. Cucumbers thus cut may be served over beet- root sliced. Cucumbers in ribbons or skeins may also be prettily served cooked. 241. Indian Salado,—Slice two cucumbers, taking out the seeds, a Spanish onion, two rennets, and two Chilies. Season with pepper and salt, stir together, and add two spoonfuls of vinegar, and three of salad-oil. The cut meat of a lobster, or of a crab's claws, is an improvement, and cayenne is indis- pensable. The onion may be omitted at pleasure. 242. To Preserve Roots and Vegetables. Potatoes are of most consequence, but few now think of storing potatoes. Keep carrots and turnips, parsnips and beetroots, with their native mould dry about them, in dry sand. Onions are best preserved strung, or the small ones in nets, in a cool but not a damp place. Use the thick- necked spongy ones first. They may also have the germ taken out with a larding-pin, and then be strung up, or they may be kiln-dried. Parsley may be picked, and dried by tying it in bundles to a string, or drying it in a cool oven; and so may other herbs. French beans will keep by salting and closing them up, and soaking them before they are dressed; but they lose their flavour and colour. Cucumbers, kidney-beans, endive, etc., may be parboiled and kept closed up in strong pickle; soaking them to freshen them before they are dressed. Green pease are shelled, scalded repeatedly, drained, dried in cloths, spread on plates, and put in a cool oven, and afterwards hung up in paper bags to harden.