409 sheep's-head broth. head. When carefully singed by the blacksmith, if it can- not be done at home, which is better, soak it and the singed trotters for a night, if you please, in lukewarm water.—Take out only the glassy part of the eyes, and scrape the head and trotters, and brush till perfectly clean and white; then split the head with a cleaver, and lay aside the brains, etc.; clean and cut out the nostrils and gristly parts, split also the trot- ters, and cut out the tendons. Wash the head and feet once more, and let them blanch till wanted for the pot. Take a large cupful of pot barley, and about twice that quantity of soaked white, or dried or fresh green pease, with a gallon or rather more of water. Put to this the head tied up, and from two to three pounds of scrag or trimmings of mutton, perfectly sweet, and some salt. Take off the scum very carefully as it rises, and the broth will be as limpid and white as any broth made of beef or mutton. When the head has boiled rather more than two hours, add sliced carrot and turnip, afterwards some onions, and lastly parsley shred. A head or two of celery sliced is admired by some modern gourmands, though we rather approve of the native flavour of this really excellent soup. The more slowly the head is boiled, the better will both the meat and soup be. just conveyed nearly the whole into her lap, when her young brother, afterwards Earl of Marchmont, looked up, and exclaimed,—" Mother, mother, look at Grizel; while we have been taking our broth, she has eaten up the whole sheep's head!"—The consternation of young Home could not, however, exceed that of a learned gentleman, who lately filled a chair in the Edinburgh University, upon a somewhat similar occasion. Before filling his late honourable situation. Professor was for some years a professor in S College; and, as might have been surmised, in the lapse of those years of exile, experienced a natural and national longing for that savoury food, which to a Scotsman is like his mother's milk. A sheep's head was accordingly procured by his orders, and sent to the blacksmith's to be singed. The hour of dinner arrived; the chops of the learned professor watered with expectation, when, lo I to his disappointment and horror, the fleshless skull was presented; and, doubly worse, accompanied with the sauce of a bill, setting forth,—" To polishing a sheep's head for Professor , one shilling and four- pence!"—Thus making the unfortunate philosopher come down with six- teen shillings, Scots money, for being deprived of the exquisite pleasure which he had anticipated in polishing the skull himself. The village of Duddingston was long celebrated for "sheep's head," and consequently a favourite resort of the frugal citizens of Edinburgh. Sheep's-head clubs were not unfrequent throughout the country, and " The Tup's-Head Dinner" about Michaelmas-day is still a high and appro- priate solemn festival with the official dignitaries in certain of our Scottish Koyal burghs.—This was before the days of Reform. They may, alas I have clianged all that now. S