559 COFFEE. 1136. To make Coffee^ Bonaparte's Way.—Put tlie ground coffee into a vessel with a strainer, and pour the water on it perfectly cold; plunge this vessel into another filled with boiling water, which must be kept at the boiling pitch till the process is completed. This method is thought to pre- serve the aroma of the berry. 1137. Parisian Coffee^ as made hy M, Dubelloy.—Take, when the coffee is needed, nearly four ounces of the best powder recently prepared, and put it, with a very little shred saffron, into a Greque.^ Pour in boiling water till it bubbles up through the strainer, and then close the vessel, and place it near the fire; arid as soon as the whole water is passed through, the coffee is made. 1138. To make Coffee hy a simple and good Method.— Pour boiling water in the proportion of six cupfuls to one cupful of freshly-ground coffee; but double or triple the coffee if for foreigners,—and Britons seldom quarrel with this double-strong when they meet with it. Let this be on the point of boiling for two minutes, held over the fire, and taken off at pleasure, so as to keep up the temperature, but not to permit any violent ebullition. Pour out a cupful two or three times, returning it; and set the coffee-pot on the hob to keep hot, while the coffee clears. If the hob is too hot, the coffee will not clear. It will spoil from being long kept nearly boiling. The receipts for making coffee, which are given in old Cookery-books, must completely drive off the flavour of the berry, from the length of time that the coffee is directed to be boiled. Flour of mustard, in the proportion of a small teaspoonful to the ounce of powder, is thought by some persons to improve the flavour, but is, we think, to be tolerated only for gouty or rheumatic invalids. Coffee made beforehand and heated up for use is a vile slop, detested by every coffee-drinker, and every one else who has the taste of his mouth. When coffee must be got ready for travellers, sportsmen, and others, before servants can Ma coupe, ton nectar, le miel Americain Que du sue des roseaux exprima I'Africain, , Tout est pret:—du Japone I'^mail re^oit tes ondes, Et seul tu reunis les tributs des deux mondes. Viens done, divin nectar! viens done; inspire-moi; Je ne veux qu'un desert, mon Antigone et toi! * A utensil which is used in Paris, similar to our now old-fashioned imperial percolator.