PIG-PETTITOES SOUP SPHING-FRUIT SOUPS. 159 good and useful in every mode; we like lemon-peel flavour in it, and a squeeze of lemon. 108. Pig-Pettitoes Soup. This cheap and useful soup has obtained the imposing name of Lord Mayor's Soup^ and, like ox-tail and other soups which should be economical, is made expensive and less wholesome by useless additions. It is thus made in localities where pigs are reared for slaughter and exporta- tion, and where the offal is very cheap: To every two set of feet and ears thoroughly cleaned, put five quarts of water, a couple of onions, and a fagot of savoury herbs : skim well, and simmer for four hours; then lift out the ears; simmer the feet till quite tender; strain off the soup, and let it settle for a night, till the cake of fat sets and the sediment falls : cut the meat of the feet and ears into dice: boil up the soup cleared of the fat and sediment: season it highly with salt, cayenne, a table-spoonful of minced savoury herbs, and white pepper: thicken with flour, or arrow-root rubbed up in butter. Meanwhile have the cut meat ready in a small saucepan, and, first gradually heating it in some of the strained soup, put it to the thickened soup, and simmer the whole for a few minutes before serving. By putting Madeira, Harvey^s sauce, or turtle-sauce and forcemeat balls, to this unctuous potage^ is made what is called the Lord Mayor's Soup^—a coarse and not very wholesome composition: though if made plain as above, it is economical, and savoury, and quite suitable to persons of sound, vigorous digestion. 109. Spring-Fruit Soups. These are made of gourds, rhubarb, cucumbers, vegetable marrow, etc., etc. They may either be made with cream, milk, or good clear gravy; and seasoned to the taste of the eater. Peel, clean, and blanch a bundle of Victoria rhubarb, cut the stems into inch lengths, and put them to a couple of quarts of good veal or beef gravy, with two or three onions, a few thin slices of bread, crust and crumb together, and salt and cayenne. Skim ofl* all the fat and scum ; simmer till tender ; strain and serve on toasted sippets. This soup may be better made maigre with a half-pound of butter kneaded in a little flour. See No. 1125. A pleasant variety