INSTITUTION OF THE 28 of a good dinner—the digesting is a different thing—conies the pleasure of talking of it, the merits of the several dishes were discussed at large. Winterblossom suggested a very little more currant-jelly to the venison-sauce;" and the Doc- tor hinted that, " had the mustard been mixed one half-hour earlier, the amalgamation would have been complete:—but freslmess^ after all, was the good extreme ; it is very well/' Both were deep in the stewed trout, when Jekyl, his solitary meal finished, took the lead with his wonted easy, well-bred assurance ; and expatiated so knowingly on the mysteries of the French kitchen, unfolding the intricate combinations of the most complicated ragouts, " familiar as his garter, talking so learnedly of unique flavours, of braises, dauhes, matelotes, etc., the compositions of sauces^ their inventors, and the names of Parisian restaurateurs of celebrity, damning this one and applauding the other, and quoting the maxims and proceedings of the Caveau Moderne, that the Doctor began to think that on the shoulders of a young lifeguards- man he had discovered the head of a Bishop. This was, however, rather a blow that staggered than one which made a lasting impression. " Sir," said the Doctor to Touchwood next day, " the talk of half these young fellows is mere foppery. In reality they know little and care less about the matter—^mere foppery and pretence, sir." But on the present day the racy flavour of Meg's old claret completed the conquest of Dr Redgill's affections; and he resolved, if possible, to abide in this land flowing with milk and honey. Moving his nose over his glass, like a beau smelling a nosegay, " Sir," said he, "I pronounce this wine:—sir, common wines have taste—this has flavour Amid the smacking of green seals and red seals, the cracking of nuts and of jokes, the Nabob withdrew to sound Mistress Dods on the affair of Dr Redgill's establishing himself in her house : which he did in a manner that evinced considerable knowledge of the trim of his hostess. Sick! d'ye say, sir ? he doesna look like it," said Meg.