59 BILLS OF FARE. chased, or merely plain, but highly polished, can never be out of place, however old-fashioned, and are the only things of which this can be constantly affirmed. In the same man- ner we may assume, that in desserts, richly cut and brightly washed useful articles of glass and china can never cease to be ornamental; though we would pause on the adoption of all alum or wax baskets, and all fruits of this last tantalizing substance, with many other things of the counterfeit kind. We are far, however, from proscribing flowers, and the foliage and moss in which fruits are sometimes seen lightly bedded. These, next to the native dew, and the bloom, are beautiful and appropriate. That sparkling imitation of frost- work, which is given to preserved fruits and other things, is also exceedingly beautiful; as are many of the trifles belong- ing to French and Italian confectionary. It may be assumed, that utility is the true principle of beauty, in affairs of the table, and, above all, in the substan- tial First Course. The first course may, therefore, consist mainly of English dishes; while French appear in the second. Linen well done up, and overlays, or more cloths than one, with a scarlet baize between, give a table a clad^ com- fortable look. Though English gentlemen and gentlewomen do not slobber and bedaub their fingers, mouths, and clothes, like some of their continental neighbours, table-napkins are now in universal use at refined English tables, and frequently even at those of persons in the humbler classes of middle life. In all ranks, and in every family, one important art in housekeeping is to make what remains over from one day's entertainment contribute to the elegance or plenty of the next day's repasts. This is a principle understood by persons in the very highest ranks of society, who maintain the most splendid and expensive establishments. Their great town- dinners usually follow in rapid succession; one banquet forming, if not the basis, a useful auxiliary to the next. But as this has been elsewhere recommended to the attention of the reader, it is almost unnecessary to repeat here, that vege- tables, ragouts, and soups, may be re-warmed; and jellies and blancmange re-moulded^ with little deterioration of their qualities. Savoury or sweet patties, potted meats, croquets, rissoles, vol-au-ventSj fritters, tartlets, etc., may be served with almost no cost, where cookery is going forward on a large scale. In the French kitchen, a numerous class of