581. BUTTER-MAKING. 1197. Preserving Meat without SmoMng.—This method, practised by M. Sanson, is strongly recommended. It con- sists in washing the meat, rubbing it with a little saltpetre and salt, so that these substances shall penetrate well into the interior, moistening it with vinegar, and covering it with juniper-berries, garlic cut small, laurel-leaves, and some spices. Afterwards a solution is prepared, composed, for twenty-five pounds of meat, of a pound and a half of muriate of soda, and three ounces of saltpetre, which is poured cold on the meat, which ought to remain in it for two days ; after this it is submitted to a regular pressure, either by loading it with stones, or better, by placing it under a screw-press. It is left in this situation for fifteen or twenty days. At coming out of the brine, the meat, properly cleaned and freed from the ingredients covering it, is immersed in a solution of six pounds of salt, one pound and a half of wood- soot, powdered, and very pure, and six quarts of water. In this mixture it is left for eight or nine hours, or longer, according to the size of the pieces; it is then taken out and hung up in an airy and shady place. THE DAIRY-CHEESE AND BUTTER MAKING. It is considered superfluous to occupy too much of the space of a work, especially dedicated to cookery, with full details of dairy pro- cesses, and all the recent improvements on this branch of rural and domestic economy. Where there is a large dairy, those conducting it will consult the latest and most competent authorities. We therefore limit this department to a brief account of the results of the recent experiments of practical dairy-farmers, and of those made by men of science under the patronage of the Royal Society of Agriculture for England, and the Highland Society of Scotland. This will be suf- ficient for families where one or two milch cows are kept for house- hold supply. It is now a practice almost universal in the extensive dairies con- nected with large towns to churn the whole milk, not, as of old, the gathered cream merely; and even with two or three cows, there is much to be said for this dairy revolution. More butter is obtained— some experimentalists allege by five per cent.—the butter-milk is sweeter if not so rich, and the process of churning much more certain than by the old mode. Upon the whole, the art of butter-making and preserving has made considerable progress of late; and in cheese the more intelligent Scotch dairy-farmers have got the promising length of being sensible of the inferiority of Dunlop to Cheshire as a marketable cheese, and in numerous instances have produced cheeses equal to the best English. And why not in all ? In a paper given in to the Highland Society by Mr Ballantine, \-