CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 484 oven to become a pale amber. For plain dishes, a few thin straws of lemon or orange peel will be sufficient decoration. Cream is appropriate to nearly all apple-dishes, and next best is custard. 941. Buttered Apples.—Pare and core pippins or rennets, or any good apples. Stew in thin syrup as many as will fill your dish, lift, and make a marmalade, flavoured with lemon, of the rest. Cover the dish with a thin layer of the marmalade. Place the apples on this, with a bit of butter in the heart of each. Lay the rest of the marmalade or apricot-jam into the vacancies. Glaze with sifted sugar, and give a fine colour in the oven. This is nearly a compote in the French style—and a good style it is—or exactly their Fommes au heiirre. 942. Apples in Rice.—Prepare apples as above ; but in- stead of apple-marmalade use sweetened, seasoned and but- tered rice. Glaze and brown as above, or with a salamander. 943. To hake Apples or Pears.—Pare, core, and, if large, divide them. Bake them in a stoneware dish with sugar, bruised cloves, a little sweet wine, and grated lemon-peel. The oven should be rather slow.—See Nos. 710^, 984. 944. To stew Winter Pears. — Prepare and season as above, and pack them in a nice saucepan with a little water or wine. Cover them close, and let them stew very slowly till done.—See Nos. 708, 984-86. 945. Black Caps.—Pare, divide, and core some large firm, but juicy apples. Bake them with white sugar. Serve with a sauce of wine and a little water, and sugar, seasoned with cloves and cinnamon.—Ohs. Genuine Hack caps are neither pared nor divided; they are merely cored, the holes stuffed with sugar and seasonings, and the apples stewed very slowly in sweet wine in a close-covered tin pan. The tops are then blackened with a salamander, which gives the name.—See Nos. 707 to 710. 946. Chartreuse de Pommes^—Beauvilliers' Receipt.— ^^Take a score of rennets; peel them, and with a very small corer take off all the pulp about the heart ,* when there is enough cored to fill the Chartreuse mould, mince the rest of the apples to make a marmalade ; equalize all the little apples, or pieces that have been cut out with the apple- corer : make a little saffron-water; put a little sugar to it j