TO BOIL SALMON. 1C3 or.ly at the fishing-stations, at which, it is to be remarked, Assizes and Presbyteries are always held.—P. T. There are many excellent ways of dressing this favourite fish, but perhaps none equal to plain boiling when well performed; or, if on the small scale, broiling, as No. 112. 110. To Boil Salmon. Scale and clean the fish without unnecessary washing or handling, and without cutting it too much open. Have a well-scoured fish-kettle, and if the salmon be very large and thick, when you have placed it on the drainer and in the kettle, cover it with cold spring water, that it may heat through gradually. Throw in six ounces of salt to a gallon of water. If only a jole, slices, or a quarter is boiled, it may be put in with warm water. In both cases take off the scum carefully, and let the fish boil slowly, allowing from eight to ten minutes to the pound; if the piece is not heavier than five or six pounds, then the time must be much less. But it is even more difficult to fix the time that fish should boil than the length of time that meat re- quires. Experience, and those symptoms which the eye of a practised cook alone can discern, must fix the point, and nothing is more disgusting and unwholesome than under- done fish. Fish may be probed; and notice when the eyes start and the meat comes from the bone. The minute the boiling of any fish is completed, the fish-strainer must be lifted and rested across the kettle, to drain the fish.* Throw a soft cloth or flannel in several folds over it. It would spoil if permitted to soak in the hot water. Dish on a hot fish-plate with a napkin under. Besides the sauces and essences to be used at discretion, which are now found on every sideboard of any pretension, shrimp, anchovy, and * If meat is ready before the company assemble, take it up as directed above, in boiling fish, and it may be kept in good season. Have all the dish-covers warmed inside at all times, and the dishes well heated. Put a hot cover over the meat, and some folds of flannel over that. If you have a Bain marie (whicli is a most useful utensil), or some substitute, you will be at no loss, though the above may tolerably well supply its place. The Bain marie is a flat copper vessel containing boiling water; you put all your stew-pans into it, and keep the water always up to the boiling point, but it must not boil. The effect of this Bain marie is to keep every thing warm, without altering either the quantity or the quality, particu- larly the quality. *' When I had the honour, (says M. Ude,) of serving a nobleman who kept a very extensive hunting establishment, and the hour of dinner was consequently uncertain, I was in the habit of using the Bain