CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. 562 water flavoured witli melon the same—all these may he iced if agreeahle. Grape Thinnings,—Besides making pies, and puddings, the thinnings of unripe hot-house clusters make a grateful cooling draught for the sick; or an addition to thin gruels. 1144. To Stew Prunes.—Put them in a nice small saucepan with very little water, and stew till soft, but not to a mash. The stones may be broken, and a few of the kernels put to the stew. 1145. Gruels of Fruit—Boil in thin gruel, currants, black or red, or cranberries, in their juice, with sugar and nutmeg to taste, or use the jam of those fruits for gruel. 1146. Oatmeal'Gruel^ in the best Manner^ as made in Scot- land.—Take finely-ground oatmeal, of the best quality. In- fuse as much as you wish in cold water for an hour or two —a night if you like. Stir it up, let it settle, and pour it from the grits (or strain it), and boil slowly for a long time, stirring it up. Add a very little salt and enough sugar, with any addition of wine, rum, fruit, jelly, honey, butter, etc., etc., that you choose. This gruel will be quite smooth; and when cold will form a jelly. With a toast, it makes an excellent luncheon or supper for an invalid. It may be thinned at pleasure, with boiling water. 1147. Sweet Orange or Lemon Juice.—When you make candied chips, preserve the strained juice, by boiling it with an equal weight of fine sugar. It is a great addition to gruel or barley-water, and will be very useful for gargles in fevers and cases of sore throat, etc. 1148. Toast and Water.—An hour or two before it is wanted, toast thin slices of bread carefully. Pour cold water over the bread, and cover the jug:—or use boiled water, which many prefer, allowing it time to cool. Lemon-juice is a grateful addition, or with boiling water, slices of an acid apple. 1149. Artificial Ass's MilJc.—TBke eringo-root, sea-holly, and pearl-barley, each half an ounce; liquorice-root, three ounces ; water, one quart; boil the mixture over a slow fire, till the full half is evaporated. Strain, and when cool, add an equal quantity of fresh cow's milk. Another.—Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in barley-water. Sweeten, and pour to this a pint of new milk. Whip up.