410 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. From three to four or five hours' boiling, according to the size of the head and the age of the animal, and an hour's simmering by the side of the fire, will finish the soup. Many prefer the head of a ram to that of a wether, but it requires much longer boiling. In either case the trotters require rather less boiling than the head. Serve with the trotters, and large sliced carrot round the head. The pound or two of scrag is a great improvement to the broth. Sheep's head, not too much boiled, makes a good pie, if nicely cut down with the peeled tongue; or an excellent ragout or hash of higher flavour than calf's-head ragout.— Ohs. The sauces ordered for boiled mutton and cow-heel are well adapted to this dish, if sauce need be had where it is so little required.* For the ragout^ a sauce may be made of the broth seasoned and thickened with butter, flour, and chopped parsley. See No. 99. 748^. The Scottish dressed LamVs Head—a remove of fish or soup as a top-dish.—This dish is a universal favourite in its native land, and is in nothing inferior to the best French style of dressing LamVs Head, See Nos. 457 and 499. Split the skull; remove the brains; take out the watery part of the eyes and gristles of the nose; scald and clean the head and neck. Boil it and the appurtenances as directed at No. 722 ; but keep one-half of the liver to fry. Boil the lights for at least two hours, the head, and half the liver and heart, for one hour. Mince the heart, half the liver, some of the lights, and the tongue peeled; season the mince with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and put it to stew in a little good stock. Make brain-cake batter as directed at No. 538. Brush the spread-out split head with egg, and crumb it with fine crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley; stir more egg into the crumbs, and crumb again and again until the meat of the head is well covered with a thick layer as it browns in the Dutch oven. Stick plentifully bits of butter over it, and baste with its own gravy. Have the brain-cake batter ready; slice in scollops the half liver reserved, and fry as directed at No. 53. Fry the brain-cakes in cakes of about the size of the mouth of a small tea-cup. Add a squeeze of lemon and a point of * The reviewer of the first edition of this work in Blackwood's Maga- zine suggests that there should be two heads and eight trotters^ which admirable emendation certainly more than doubles the value of our receipt.