117 VEAL- CUTLETS—CHOPS. light golden-tinged brown^ the pan may be held higher above the fire and covered. Have ready some gravy made thus: A quarter-pound of the skins, bones, or trimmings of the cutlets, a blade of mace, the head of a young onion, a sprig of parsley, a good bit of lemon-peel, six white peppercorns, a bay leaf, if the flavour is liked, and a pint of water, which may boil down one-half; add fresh butter, the size of a large walnut, rolled in flour, or white roux. When this gravy is thickened, strain, boil again, and pour it hot over the cutlets, which must be served very hot. This sauce may be made brown, by the addition of a little walnut or mushroom catsup. Another Way,—Veal cutlets may be more highly dressed by brushing the slices with beat egg, and strewing over them a mixture of bread- crumbs, parsley, and lemon-peel chopped very fine, and a scrape of nutmeg. They must be fried in plenty of butter. When the cutlets are done, place them before the fire in a hot dish, covered, and to the gravy in the pan add veal- broth or gravy, and white roux, or a few little bits of butter separately rolled in flour; let it boil and thicken; add a little lemon-juice and white pepper, skim the sauce, and pour it over the cutlets. Where the flavour of lemon- thyme is liked, a sprig of it makes a grateful addition to sauce for veal-cutlets. French way, which the French call the English:—Cut nice small cutlets from the neck, skin- ning and trimming them from fat. Egg, crumb, and fry them. In another pan fry as many delicate slices of bacon as you have cutlets. Dress round on a very hot dish, a cutlet and a slice of bacon laid edgeways on each other, and pour hot mushroom-gravy into the centre. See Nos. 640, 641, 642, and Scotch Collops, in Chap. National Dishes, 49. Lamb or Pork-Chops Are fried in same manner as veal, and either plain or egged,* rolled in bread-crumbs, and when dished, garnished with slices of lemon, or crisped parsley. Pork-chops may be fried as above, dipping them after they are egged in a * " To egg,"—to smear with beat egg, or dip in egg,—is an approved kitchen verb, from which Touchwood derived the Scotch phrase, to " egg up," or " egg on," incite, urge, or stimulate—the appetite. Dr Eedgill had grave doubts as to this etymology. " To onion" is another buttery verb, which deserves to be more generally known.