154 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. hy which method the broth is not grouty nor yet over-.salt, which it will be if made wholly of salt meat. In some parts of rural England, lean fresh beef and salt pork are still boiled and eaten together. The improved management of stock [cattle, not broth), will soon supersede this necessity. Turkey beans, stripped of the blackening outer husk, are admirably adapted for lithing barley-broth.'^ If you would avoid the glary, ropy decoctions which are sometimes seen on tables, where better things might be looked for, the quality of the barley, rice, and, indeed, tapioca, tons le mois, Italian pastes, and everything of the kind used in cookery ought to be carefully attended to. When exposed to air and damp these things become musty much sooner than is generally thought. English books of cookery order a sauce for meat boiled in Scotch broth, of red wine, mushroom-catsup, and gravy with cut pickles—a piece of absurd extravagance, completely at variance with the character and properties of the better part of the dish— namely, with the bland, balsamic barley-broth of Scotland. But if a fine name is admired, use the French sauce TiacM. For cheap and excellent soups and broths, see National Dishes and Cheap Coohery.—The above barley-broth will make an excellent rice-broth, by substituting rice for barley, and omitting the pease, though we think pulse an excellent ingred- ient in all plain family soup. German barley-broth is made exactly as above, using a piece of the flank of beef.—See Sheep's Head Broth^ Scotch Hotch-Potch, Coch-a-Leelde^ and Nos. 725, 726, 728, and 748. PISH SOUPS. This delicate and refined description of sotips has gained on tlie favour of the gormandizing world very rapidly. Cray-fish soup was the favourite bonne houche of the soup- eaters of past generations. Oyster and lobster soups are more admired in our day. A clear gravy of cow-heels makes an admirable basis for fish-soups, and is largely em- ployed by those who make them for sale in towns. 100. The Basis of Fish-Soups. This Stock, as it is technically called, may either be made of fish or meat. The former is the more elegant, and is besides suited to maigre days; the latter is more rich and nourishing. Beef, veal, or the lean of mutton, may all be used for fish-stock. When made of fish, a skate, a cod's * Mistress Dods, with her usual sagacity, stated with great plausibility of reasoning, that one capital defect of barley-broth cooked by " Englishers'^ and other unqualified persons, is produced nine times out of ten by the bad quality of the pot-barley often used in England. Nor does pearl-barley give the same consistence as pot-barley. Bice, with mutton, veal, or fowl broth, is an excellent substitute for barley. Were it equally cheap it would be better liked than the principal. Both are of course best when quite fresh.