MADE-DISHES. 279 and. the closeness of the vessel in which the meat is con- tained. The lid of a stewpan, or digester, after its contents have been skimmed, ought to be as seldom removed as pos- sible ; but the stewpan may be frequently shaken, to prevent the meat from adhering either to the bottom or to the sides.* Stewing is recommended by Dr Cullen as the best mode of cookery for retaining all the native succulence of meat, thus obtaining from it the greatest quantity of nourishment; and likewise as promotive of digestion. The last assertion, though of so great authority, may sometimes be questioned. Made-dishes are valued by the gourmand for their savouri- ness or their piquancy. They are equally esteemed by the economist, from the circumstance that a much smaller quan- tity of material than would suffice for a boil or roast, will make a handsome and highly-flavoured dish ; while, by the various modes of re-dressing^ everything cold may, in a new Made-dish^ be turned to good account. A common fault of English Made-dishes is that they are overdone. While a large dinner is proceeding, the stewpans are neglected, because their contents sustain less apparent injury than is instantly visible on roasts, broils, or fries ; and also because cooks either do not know, or forget, that meat stewing in its own rich juices is exposed to a more intense heat than in boiling or roasting. The general rules we would give for dressing Made-dishes are, — 1st, That they be not over-hastily done, but rather removed from the fire, steamer, or hot-plate, as a very few minutes will at any time finish them completely. 2d, That the sauce be smooth and properly thickened, so as to adhere to the meat,—and that the pieces of meat, fillets of poultry, etc., of which they are composed, be nicely trimmed; cut perfectly smooth with a fine-edged knife, and never clumsily large. This is peculiarly to be attended to in re-dressing .cold meat; which sometimes comes to table mangled and lacerated, as if it had been gnawed, not carved. Palates, sweetbreads, etc., may be cut into scollops, or other pretty forms, as is common in French cookery. The very name Made-dish implies with us something savoury and highly relishing; and though over- seasoning is * It would be a great improvement if the lids of stewpans permitted turf or charcoal to be put over, as well as under the meat; unless where there are scientific ranges, with steaming apparatus.