SAUCES. 355 tliese simmer by the side of the fire for a good while, skim, and strain through a tammy sieve. 601. Montpelier Butter,—To dressed rave^o/e (see No. 602), add six hard yolks, a spoonful of capers, eight ounces of butter, a clove of garlic, a seasoning of nutmeg, mace, all- spice, and tarragon-vinegar, and a glassful of salad-oil. Pound for eight minutes, then gradually add spinage-juice to green the butter. Pound till very smooth; set in ice to firm. This is used in decorating cold dishes of fish, meat, or salads, along with ornamental savoury jelly or aspic. 602. Dressed Ravigote.—Take a suitable quantity of burnet, chervil, tarragon, and celery, with two leaves of balm. Clean and boil them. Throw them into fresh water, and drain and pound them with a little salad-^oil, and vinegar, pepper, and salt. Rub this, when sufficiently done, through a sieve. 6022. Ravigote Butter.—Make as Mattre Hotel butter, substituting two spoonfuls of chopped chervil and tarragon for the parsley, and for lemon-juice a spoonful of Chili vinegar. 603. Ravigote-Bauce and Cold Ravigote,—Make the sauce exactly as directed for Maitre d''H6tel^ substituting Ravigote butter for Maitre d^Hotel butter. Cold Ravigote,—This is just a piquant salad-sauce. Clean, mince, and pound the herbs with a few capers and a boned anchovy or two. Pound the whole well with a raw egg, and add a little good vinegar to keep it from sticking. Rub through a sieve.* 604. Mushroom-Sauce J Beauvilliers^ Receipt.—Take two handfuls of mushrooms, wash them in several waters, rubbing them lightly; put them into a drainer; mince them with their stalks; put them into a stewpan, with the size of an egg of butter; let them fall over a slow fire, and, when nearly done, moisten them with two skimming spoonfuls of veloute; let them simmer three-quarters o^f an hour more; * We cannot here resist the Bavigote a I' Ude^ on which that celebrated (7i^e/prides himself not a little. Take of Chili vinegar, cavice, catsup, and Eeading-sauce, each a teaspoonful; the size of an egg of butter, three spoonfuls of Bechamel, a little cream, salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley- blanched, and Cayenne.