SWEETBEEADS LAMB^S LIVER PIG^S HARSLET. 119 before the eggs are broken and gently slipt in. Ladle the frying-fat over them with an iron tinned spoon. When the eggs are done on the under side, dish the bacon in a hot dish, and either turn the eggs or hold the pan before the fire a minute, or use a salamander, to take the raw off the upper side. Trim them as they lie in the pan; then take them up with a slice, and drain the grease off, before dishing them with the bacon. They are dished either on the slices of bacon, or laid in the dish, with the bacon placed neatly round them. In very nice cookery, a separate pan should be used for frying the eggs, and some good cooks broil the ham, and fry the eggs only. 52. To Fry Sweetbreads. Let sweetbreads always be slightly parboiled when they come from the butcher. When to be dressed, cut them into oblong slices, and either flour and fry them in butter, or egg them, then roll in bread-crumbs : add a seasoning of lemon- peel, pepper, cayenne, and a sprig of basil chopped. Gar- nish with crisped parsley: anchovy-sauce^ or melted butter, with a small teaspoonful of walnut or mushroom catsup stirred into it. Serve with them small, thin slices of crisped bacon, or of sausage done in a cheese-toaster or Dutch oven. For Sweetbreads^ see French Cookery, 53. To Fry Lamb's Liver and Pig's Harslet. Cut a sound fat liver into long thin slices. Soak in water, dry in a cloth, and flour these. Fry them of a fine rich brown, in plenty of fresh butter or lard. Minced eschalot, or young onions, cayenne, and pepper, may be added to the fry. Serve with hot gravy and stewed cucumbers, or cucum- ber-sauce. Garnish with fried parsley.—Ohs. When liver is found either livid, black, or lumpy, it is surely unnecessary to notice, that, whether for sauce, stufling, or frying, it is alike to be rejected. Liver may be boiled ten minutes, and finished by frying. Pig's Harslet—Clean and boil the lights, liver, sweetbread, and heart, thirty minutes; slice, dredge with flour, season with pepper, cayenne, and salt, and fry with chopped onion and sage, in butter or lard, with a bit of bacon. The French make this dish fine by serving it with a sauce of claret and mustard. Harslet may be stewed, a good plain way ; or roasted, skewered up in a caul.