CHAP. III. KOA STING. 102 Pleydel^s sauce for wild fowl. Garnish with slices of lemon, or bitter orange, and fried bread-crumbs. Ohs. French cooks stuff woodcocks with chopped truffles, and either roast them, or stew them with fire under and over the pot. The trail is sometimes cooked in gravy and butter, and poured over the toast. French cooks lay slices of lemon over the breasts of part- ridges, on these slices of lard, and above all fasten paper. Dr Hunter recommends a stuffing of minced beef or veal for a cock-pheasant, the flesh of which is sometimes insipid to English palates. This may be more acceptable to some than the French practice of enriching these birds by larding. 32. To Eoast Grouse, Black Cock, and Ptarmigan. Truss with the head under the wing. They require a sharp, clear fire, must be well basted, and not overdone. Serve on a buttered toast soaked in the dripping-pan, and put brown beef-gravy in the dish. In this and the above receipt we recommend plain melted butter instead of meat- gravy, to those who wish to retain the native flavour of the birds.—Rice-sauce^ or Pleydel's Sauce; also Orange- gravy.—Ohs. The French often soak the toasts in lemon- juice before they are laid in the dripping-pan; an elegant practice. M. Soyer, an artiste of some authority, gives many receipts of his own invention for cooking grouse. His grouse d la Boh Roy is in one sense piquant. He wraps the birds, when to be roasted, in fat bacon and sprigs of heather^ moiiL^tened with a glass of whisky! His grouse d la Bonnie Lassie will be a favourite with young sportsmen, though, except the name, it has no particular claim to notice. His grouse-salad, however, the Salade de Grouse d la /Soyer, is magnifique. The recipe may be thus abridged : Put a thin rim of butter round a dish, and on this stick a high border of hard-boiled eggs cut into four lengthways, with a bit cut off to make them stand. Fill the centre with a nice fresh salad, and tastefully ornament the egg border with fillets of anchovies, cut beet-root, or gher- kins ; cut three under-roasted grouse into neat small pieces ; and have pre- pared, a sauce made of two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped eschalots; two of pounded sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of chopped tarragon, and chervil, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and two of salt: with these, gradually mix twelve tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, and three of Chili vinegar: mix all well, and put the mixture on the ice. ''When ready to serve," continues our authority, " whip half a pint of cream rather stiff, and add to the sauce: pour a little over the salad, upon which lay first the worst pieces of the grouse, over which pour more sauce, dressing them pyramidically." This salad, M. Soyer confesses, is better adapted to gentlemen than ladies. It was first served in Paris at a competition of the most celebrated artistes of the Stove, on whose head certain English