568 CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. will be found one of the most effectual means for the suppression of dram-shops; for there can he no doubt that there are in large towns thousands on thousands of poor persons, market-women, barrow- women, and dealers in all sorts of small wares, who, were a pint of hot coffee or of warm soup and a small loaf as easily come by at the corner of every street, as a glass of gin, would, at least in the begin- ning of their career, prefer the former. It is not easy to hear the stern denunciations of gin^ and of the pro- fligacy of the lower classes, proceeding from one of those well-fed, well-clad moralists, who never indulge in anything save '■''sound old port," or " the best of malt liquor," without calling to mind one of the pictures of him whose sagacity in detecting the manifold weaknesses of the human heart, and penetrating to its most hidden springs, was only excelled by his indulgence in judging of its wanderings and weaknesses. The Antiquary is expressing his hope to the fish- woman, that the distilleries, then stopt, may never work again. " Ay, ay," said Maggie, "it's easy for your honour, and the like o' you gentle folks to say sae, that ha'e stouth and routh, and fire and fending, and meat and claith, and sit dry and canny by the fireside ; but an ye wanted fire, and meat, and dry claise, and were deeing o' cauld, and had a sair heart, whilk is warst ava, wi' just tippence in your pouch, wadna ye be glad to buy a dram wi't, to be eliding, and claise, and a supper, and heart's-ease into the bargain, till the morn's morning?"—"It's even too true an apology, Maggie," said Monk- barns. Besides the receipts for Cheap Dishes subjoined, there are many scattered through this work, as stew-soup of bullock's heart; sheep^s- head broth in a plain way; rice and milk with suet; plain /Scotch fish and sauce; Scotch haggis; pan-hail; pease-soup or potato-soup in which dripping is substituted for butter; ox-tail and ox-head soup and ragout; baked herrings; kidney collops; white^ bloody and liver puddings; mussel or other cheap shell-fish soups; calecannon enriched with dripping, or the same thing, Scotch Bumble-de-thumps; Scotch Jcail-brosCy and many other things. In treating of cookery for the poor, however briefly, it would be wrong to pass over the potato-flour, of which so much has lately been said and written. Of its uses and excellence in its own place, we have no doubts whatever, though we cannot just yet believe that in potato-flour a universal panacea is discovered for human misery. But it is now prepared for sale in considerable quantities, and if it be as really cheap, nutritious, and agreeable, as is alleged, there is no doubt of its success. To the mode of cooking potato-flour, as pro- mulgated by its most zealous patrons and proneurs, we, however, decidedly object. Their pudding is in fact raio potato-glue; if boil- ing water is merely poured over the flour. This might do for genuine arrowroot, or for oatmeal, or Glasgow brosemeal, but not for crude potato-mucilage. We give the suhjomed formula as an improvement: —31ix the flour as in making starch; pour boiling water over it, and boil it for at least from five to eight minutes, stirring constantly. If boiled in milk, or milk and water, with a little sugar, it will make a