COMPANY SUPPERS. 61 and stews for the top and bottom; turkey or fowls or fricarideau, or ham garnished, or tongue, for the sides; with small made-dishes for the corners, served in covered dishes ; as palates, stewed giblets, curry of any kind, ragout or fricassee of rabbits, stewed mushrooms, etc., etc. Vegetables [assiettes volantes) on the side-table are handed round. If the epergne is taken away with this course, then the small table-cloth or overlay^ which is often placed across, to keep the cloth neat for the third course, is also removed. The Third Course consists of game, pastry, confectionary, the more delicate vegetables and salads dressed in the French way, iced puddings, compotes of fruit, creams, jellies, etc. Water-bottles and tumblers are placed at proper intervals. Malt liquors, and common beverages, are called for; but where hock, champagne, etc., are served, they are offered round between the courses. When the Third Course is cleared away, cheese, butter, a fresh salad, or sliced cucum- ber, are usually served, in respectable English families, who do not affect foreign manners. At many tables, however, of good fashion, cheese is proscribed. The finger-glasses precede the dessert. QmVMY SUPPEES. Ti-iE ingenuity of the genteel economist is as often taxed to contrive supper things as in arranging dinners, which admit of less temporizing. Economy, good taste, and neatness, can however do much, even with slender means, where the chief organ to be propitiated is the eye; for the lateness of modern dinner-hours has now, almost universally, changed suppers from a solid meal into a light showy refreshment. It is said that ladies are the best critics in suppers, while gentlemen are better qualified to decide on the more sub- stantial business of the dinner-table. Ladies are unques- tionably more conversant with the things on which the elegance of a supper-table depends, — namely, the beautiful shapes and arrangement of china, glass, linen, fruits, foliage, flowers, colours, lights, ornamental confectionary, and all the other natural and artificial embellishments of the table. Articles, so beautiful in themselves, cannot fail, if tastefully