OF BEEF. 281 sliced carrot, or onions prepared as for garnishing, No. 262. A rump is sometimes half-roasted^ and finished in the stew- pot in broth, with some mild ale, or wine, vinegar, catsup, a fagot of sweet herbs, and onions, mixed spices, pickled mushrooms, etc. This last is an expensive dish, and has nothing to recommend it beyond a plainer dressed rump, stewed carefully in the stock intended to make soups and sauces for the same dinner. A sirloin is excellent stewed; but we consider stewing a desecration of this noble joint. 387. To Stew or Ragout a Brisket of Beef. Take six or eight pounds of a brisket, with the firm fat; wash and rub it with salt and vinegar before dressing it. Put it into a stewpot that will just hold it, with water or stock, and when well skimmed, let it stew very slowly for an hour or more, and then put to it cut carrots, turnips, and small whole onions. When it has stewed slowly till very tender, draw out the bones, thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour and a little catsup, and season with plenty of mixed spices. Serve the meat by itself, with a garnishing of sprigs of cauliflower, and a sauce made of the thickened gravy, with more catsup, and, if approved, a little made- mustard.—0^5. A haricot of beef (excellent) may be made of the above, by dividing the meat into two dozen neat pieces, browning them, and putting in two sliced heads of celery and forcemeat balls, in addition to the ingredients ordered above. 388. Another way*—The French " Bceuf Garni de Choux^' an excellent dish,—Cut in quarters, tie up and boil firm white cabbages. Finish them in any good hraise or broth seasoned with roots. Moisten them with a little top-fat. Then drain the cabbage, press out the fat, untie and serve them neatly round beef stewed as above. A Bachelor's Round of Beef—Have from four to six pounds of a fine rib, boned, skewered, and bandaged round like a fillet of veal prepared for roasting. Kub it briskly with salt, and next day place it in a cold boiled pickle, in which the least particle of saltpetre has been dissolved by boiling. In from six days to ten, as you wish saltness, wash the meat, tie it up in a cloth, put it in hot water, and boil from an hour to two hours, in proportion to the weight; for