385 FORCEMEAT IN GENERAL. mince and pound the best parts of young fowls, till the meat will rub through a sieve. Have one part of this, one of panada, and another of veal-udder, parboiled and skinned. Pound the whole well together, and season with salt, white pepper, and mace. Put raw yolks to the compound, and beat it perfectly smooth. Prove it as directed. No. 692^. If not firm enough, add more eggs, one at a time. Make up the quenelles of egg-shapes, and poach or bake them.— N.B. Quenelles may be made of rabbit, partridge, or pheas- ant, in the same way. Serve with clear gravy. They are considered a delicate dish. 696. Boudins d la Richelieu [Puddings of Rahhits or Poultry). — Make a forcemeat of rabbits or poultry, as directed for quenelles; but instead of panada use pounded potatoes. Put to the far^ce dressed onions or mushrooms chopped, in suitable quantity. Spread the forcemeat smooth on the dresser, and with a knife roll it up in small sausages or boudins ; or mould it to a proper shape, and bake the boudins Whether boiled or baked, serve with brown Italian-sauce. Boudins may be made of all sorts of game, poultry, also of whitings, craw-fish, etc. 696^. Boudins Blancj an exceedingly good kind of White Puddings.—Cook a dozen small onions in broth. Make a rather dry panada of cream or milk, and pound this with the onions and some pounded sweet almonds. Put to this pig's caul, cut in little bits, some yolks of eggs, a little cream, the white parts of raw chickens finely minced, with salt and spices. Pound the whole well, and try it by dressing a little in a small pan before you fill the skins. Boil the boudi7is in milk and water, pricking the skins to prevent them from bursting. When wanted, dip them in boiling water to heat, and finish them in a paper case in a Dutch oven.—See National Dishes, No. 738. 696^. Macaroni in the richest Italian mode.—Prepare pipe or ribbon Macaroni as at No. 557. Prepare also Sughlio as at note. No. 769. Drain the boiled macaroni, stew it very slowly in the sughlio for fifteen minutes. Dish and grate Parmesan and bread-crumbs. Put bits of butter over it. Brown with a salamander, and serve hot. To sughlio French cooks, of any refinement, prefer veal-gravy, or for a more delicate dish, Espagnole. R