331 CROQUETS AND RISSOLES. for calf s head, a little shred sage and thyme. Put season- ings to the mixture, and a large spoonful of melted butter; and, dropping the batter in cakes the size of a teacup-mouth, fry them in lard of an amber colour. They may either be served as a garnishing, or as a small corner-dish to accom- pany a dressed calf's head or lamb's head.—See No. 748. 539. For Balls.—Roll with two teaspoons the above mixture into small balls with more egg and flour, and fry them. 540. Croquets and Rissoles.—These little useful dishes differ from savoury patties only in shape. They are alike made of cold chicken, sweetbreads, veal, or any nice bit of white meat that is left cold. Mince the meat, season it, and stew it for two minutes in gravy. Croquets are minced meat of various kinds rolled up as small sausages, dipped in egg, and rolled in bread-crumbs, fried a light brown, and served with nicely-fried parsley. We give an example: Croquets of Shrimps.—Pound to a fine paste a quart of fresh- shelled shrimps, with two ounces of butter, and mace, nut- meg, and cayenne, to taste. Pour hot milk over two ounces of stale bread, and soak for twenty minutes. Make it a dry panada, as at No. 694, and pound it with the shrimp paste, mixing in gradually two whisked eggs. When cold and firm, roll the mixture into croquets the size of olives; and egg, crumb, and fry or poach them for five or six minutes, according to their size. Rissoles are made in thin puff- paste, in any form you please, spreading a little of the mince on the paste, and doubling it up like an apple-pasty; or they are served as balls rolled up in paste and fried, and garnished with parsley.—See French Cookery^ Hors d^ceuvreSj from No. 670 to 678. 541. Canapes.—Take the crumb of a large loaf, cut it in slices the thickness of three quarters of an inch; afterwards cut or stamp the slices into pretty forms, and fry them of a nice colour in oil or butter; mince separately the hard yolks and whites of eggs, cucumbers, capers, anchovies, in strips, different fine herbs, small salad herbs, etc., and put them in a little oil; season the canapes [i.e. the fried bread) with salt, pepper, and vinegar; dress handsomely, and garnish tastefully with cut hard eggs, or ham, beetroot, small rad- ishes, anchovies, capers, cresses, etc., etc., and serve upon