SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. 231 fined gourmand^ This, we think, is a tolerably correct definition ofwhat a well-compounded sauce ought to be. The French, among our other insular distinctions, speak of us as a nation " with twenty religions and only one sauce,"—parsley and butter, by the way, is this national relish,—and unquestionably English cookery, like English manners^ has ever been simpler than that of our refined neighbours. Modem cookery, too, like modern dress, is stripped of many of its original tag-rag fripperies. We have laid aside lace and embroidery, save upon occasions of high ceremonial, and, at the same time, many omnegatherum compoimd sauces and ragouts, with a smack of every thing. Yet the human form and the human palate have not lost by this revolution. The harmonies of flavours, the afiinities and coherence of tastes, and the art of blending and of opposing relishes, were certainly never so well understood as now; while the modern kitchen still affords, in sufficient variety, the sharp, the pungent, the sweet, the acid, the spicy, the aromatic, and the nutty flavours, of which to compound mild, savoury, or piquant sauces, though a host of heterogeneous ingredients are laid aside. The elegance of a table, as opposed to mere lumbering sumptuousness or vulgar luxury, is perhaps best displayed in the adaptation of the sauces to the meats served, and in their proper preparation and attractive appearance. Plain sauces ought to have, as their name imports, a plain but yet a decided character; so ought the piquant, the sweet, and the savoury. All hot sauces should he served very hot,—a matter too often neglected in the hurry of dishing and serving dinner. Sauces with which cream and eggs are mixed should be diligently stirred after these ingredients are added, to prevent their curdling; and suffered to warm through in a pot of hot water or lain marie, but not to boil on the fire or hot plate, lest they curdle. The same care must be taken in mixing capers and acid pickles in sauce. Though it is wilful waste to put wine, catsup, lemon-juice, aromatic spices, and other expensive ingredients, into sauces or soups for more than the time necessary to extract the flavour,—yet, on the other hand, these things must be macerated or boiled long enough to be properly blended, both in substance and flavour, with the basis of the sauce. Patient concoction must also be duly attended to, whether at the mincing-board, in the