CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, ETC. 520 1053. Noyau.—To a quart of pure brandy, or aquavitse, put six ounces of clarified syrup, one ounce of French prunes, with the kernels broken, two ounces of sound peach, necta- rine, or apricot kernels bruised; a few grains of celery-seed, and a flavour of rind or essence of lemon or Seville orange. Infuse for ten days or more in a warm place, and, adding a half-pint of water, filter. 1054. Scotch Noyau^ a favourite Compound.—Two quarts of silent proof-spirit, a pint and a half of water, a pound and a half of clarified syrup, six ounces of sweet and four of bitter almonds blanched and chopped. Infuse for a fort- night, shaking the compound occasionally, and filter. Lemon juice or grate may be added, but much of the nutty or almond flavour does not harmonize well with acid, or with citron flavours. 1055. Strong Cinnamon-CordiaL — Pour sixpence-worth or more of oil of cinnamon on a few knobs of sugar, and rub them well together. Mix this with two quarts of spirits and a pound of hot clarified syrup. Shake well and let this infuse for a few days and then filter for use. Water and more syrup may be added at pleasure to reduce the strength.— Ohs. This may be made of cinnamon in substance by maceration. Cardamom-seeds may be added. This and other compounds may be coloured with burnt sugar; but, if well strained or filtered, they look better nearly colourless, but very bright. 1056. Citron-Cordial^ a Mgh flavoured and excellent Com- pound,—Take rinds of citrons, six ounces; of orange-peel, four ounces; a nutmeg bruised, and a pint and a half of clarified syrup. Mix with two quarts of spirits for ten days, keeping the vessel in a warm place. Strain as directed, No. 1052. 1057. Clove-Cordial.—Take of bruised cloves and cassia- buds, a quarter of an ounce each, and a dozen or more Jamaica peppercorns. Infuse the spices in hot water, and keep the bottle by the fire, close stopped, for two nights. Strain this to three pints of proof-spirit, and add syrup to taste. Filter, and colour with burnt sugar, or a bit of cochineal. Mace or nutmeg, bruised, may be added to Clove-Cordial. It is grateful and fancied tonic. 1058. Barhadoes Water.—To two quarts of proof-spirit