288 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES Serve witli a ragout of roots stewed (after boiling) in the sauce of the tails or in melted butter.—Ols. Ox-tails dressed as above are very good served with a sauce, or puree of pease, or with sauce Jiachee,—See No. 591. 402. Beef-Olives,—Cut slices from the rump less than half-an-inch thick, four inches long, and about two inches broad. Flatten them, dip them in egg, and then in a seasoning made of pulverized or finely shred herbs, bread- crumbs, mixed spices, and salt. If the meat be lean, a little shred suet or ham may be flattened into each olive. Eoll them neatly up, and fasten : a little forcemeat may also be put into each. The olives may either be roasted on a lark- spit, and served with a drawn gravy, or browned and then stewed over embers in a broth made of the skins and trim- mings. Thicken the sauce, and season it with catsup, and, untying and dishing the olives neatly, skim and pour it very hot over them.—See No. 420. 403. Olives au Roi—a favourite small dish.—Mash two pounds of boiled potatoes; add a quarter of a pint of cream, two beat yolks of eggs, and one spoonful of flour; season this with salt and pepper; take six long slices of beef beat out very thin; strew over them a mixture made of a spoon- ful of chopped onion, the same of parsley, and of mush- rooms ; spread the potato-paste on the olives, and roll and tie them up ; fry or bake half an hour; glaze them, and put some plain brown sauce under them. Six will make a good-sized dish.—Ohs, Veal may be done the same way. Beef Olives may be baked in a potato or other paste border. 404. Beef Marrow-Bones,—Have them neatly sawed. Fill up the opening with a piece of dough or paste, and tie a floured cloth over that. Boil them, placed upright, in the soup-pot (keeping them covered) for two hours. Serve upright on a napkin, accompanied with slips of dry toast. Marrow bones may also be baked, covered with batter. Boiled fillets of marrow are served with stewed celery, 405. Beef-Heart—In England a heart is cut up, long soaked to free it from blood, and has the lobes cut off, after which it is stuffed with forcemeat as a roasted hare, covered with paper or veal-caul, and roasted or baked, and served with venison-sauce. In Scotland beef-heart is often dressed