ONION-SOUPS. 133 69. Plain Onion-Soup. Chop a dozen large mild onions, and stew them in a small stew-pan with butter; stir them about with a wooden spoon, let them cook very gradually and not get brown. Put to this some very strong stock-broth, well seasoned; add pepper, cayenne, and salt; and, if nicer cooking is wanted, strain the soup, and put to it a pint of boiling cream. 70. Superlative Onion-Soup. Have a proper quantity of well-seasoned, clear brown gravy-soup, in which a double proportion of onions and a fagot of seasoning herbs have been boiled. To this, when strained, put a dozen middle-sized onions, sliced and crisply fried; let these stew gently in the soup, not to crumble the slices ; season with white pepper and cayenne, and serve with toasted sippets in the tureen. Button onions, cooked as for garnishing houilli^ No. 262, etc., may be used instead of large ones fried; and for those who like a full-tasted soup, this may be thickened with rice-flour, or the pulp of pease. It may, if liked, be simmered till the onions, both in substance and flavour, are thoroughly blended with the soup.—Ohs. The gusto may be heightened and the flavour varied to suit the palate of the consumer. Curry-powder was a favourite addition of the Nabob, and also a spice of ginger, which made a sort of imitation Mullagatawny, su- perior to the original, to those who dislike fork-soups and stew-soups. Dr Redgill heightened the flavour of his onion- soup with mushroom-catsup, or eschalot. As the taste for onions and garlic,* like that for olives, piquant sauces, and peppers, increases with ago, we do not, in any case, fix the precise quantity to be used, but merely give the medium. Some cooks thicken onion-soup with a liaison of the yolk of two or three eggs well beat and whisked into the soup be- fore it is dished, or with cream, as in last receipt. * Onions are supposed to possess a considerable quantity of nourish- ment. It is even asserted, that no substance of only equal bulk affords so much. This is at least doubtful. Onions in their raw state are much relished by some persons, while others find them wholly indigestible : they are very generally acceptable in soup or sauce. They used to form the favourite bon-bons of the Highlander, " who, with a few of these and an oat-cake, would," says Sir John Sinclair, " travel an incredible distance, and live for days without other food." The Egyptians adored the Onion nearly as much as the Ox: and the Spaniards have the same fondness for