538 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. well, and, after a month or six weeks, bottle it, drawing it clear hy pegging as directed in No. 1095. The best sort of home-made wines are manufactured from foreign fruits, particularly raisins and imported grapes. Beers and other Household Beverages. 1108^. White Spruce-Beer.—To five gallons of water put seven pounds of loaf-sugar, and three-fourths of a pound of the essence of spruce. Boil and skim this. Put it into a vessel, and, when cooled to 80°, add fresh yeast (about a half-pint or less). When the beer has fermented for three days, bung the cask, and in a week bottle it off. N,B.—For Brown Spruce use treacle or coarse brown sugar instead of loaf-sugar. Artificial Lemon-Juice.— Dissolve nine drachms and twelve grains of crystallized citric acid in a pint of water, and flavour it with a drop of essence of lemon dissolved in a teaspoonful of brandy. Lemon and Kali.—Two parts loaf-sugar, one part dried and powdered citric acid; and powdered bicarbonate of potash, one part and a fourth. A better preparation is,— Effervescing Concrete Acidulated Alkali.—Mix intimately one part powdered tartaric acid, one of bicarbonate of soda, and two of pounded loaf-sugar. Flavour with essence of lemon, sixty drops to a pound of the mixture. A teaspoon- ful in a half-pint of water, or less, makes the draught. Ginger-Beer Powders.—Thirty grains of bicarbonate of soda, in blue paper; twenty-five of tartaric acid in white paper, to which add five grains of powdered white ginger, and a drachm of pounded sugar. 1109. Ginger-Beer^ of a superior hindj for keeping.—Take four pounds of loaf-sugar, four ounces or more of bruised white ginger, and four gallons of water. Boil for a half- hour, and skim this. Slice two lemons or more into a tub, and put to them one ounce of cream of tartar. Pour the hot liquor over this, and when about 77°, add a half-pint, or rather less, of fresh beer-yeast. Let this work for three or four days. Strain it off clear from the lees into a cask, and add to it, if it is to be kept, a half-pint of brandy. Bottle in a week or ten days, and wire the corks.— Ohs. With four