CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 4.32 ever, so celebrated, that it would be unpardonable to treat it with neglect. Truss as for boiling six partridges. Singe and wipe them. Season them with salt, pepper, and mixed spices, minced parsley, and young onions, and lard them. Brush, wash, and peel two pounds of truffles. Hash the small and broken ones; and mince them with the livers of the partridges and a fat goose-liver, or fat livers of poultry, or a piece of veal-udder parboiled. Mix all these things, and pound them in a mortar, adding raw egg, as directed for quenelles^ Nos. 692, 695. Season this forcemeat very highly. Cut open the trussed partridges at the back, and stuff each of them with the forcemeat, and some whole truffles. Place them backs downmost in a raised crust, either round or oval, and bake, first lining the crust with slices of bacon and force- meat. Game-pies of the richest description, with truffles, etc., are now regularly imported to London, where every- thing may be had for money. 801. Venison-Pasty.—A modern pasty is made of what does not roast well, as the neck, the breast, the shoulder. The breast makes a good pasty. Cut it into little chops, trimming off all bone and skins. Make some good gravy from the bones and other trimmings. Place fat and lean pieces of the meat together; or, if very lean, place thin slices from the firm fat of a leg or a neck of mutton along with each piece. Season the meat with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and allspice. Place it handsomely in a dish, and put in the drawn gravy a quarter-pint of claret or port, a glassful of eschalot-vinegar, and, if liked, a couple of onions very finely shred. Cover the dish with a thick crust, No. 777. —(See pages 91, 120, 317.)—055. This is a dish in which ornament is not only allowable, but is actually expected. The paste-decorations are, however, matters of fancy. Before the pasty is served, if the meat be lean, more sauce made of a little red wine, gravy, mixed spices, and the juice of a lemon, may be put in hot. A common fault of venison- pasty is being overdone. An hour and a half in a moderate oven is fully sufficient for baking an ordinary-sized pasty; an hour will do for a small one. Some cooks marinade the meat in the wine and other seasonings for a night, or for some hours previous to baking. This, no doubt, imbues the venison with the flavour of the seasonings, but at the same time drains off the juices, and hurts the natural flavour of