542 TIME REQUIRED FOR ROASTING AND FRYING. Leg of Mutton, of eight to ten pounds, two hours and a half. Shoulder, of eight pounds, two hours. Fillet of Veal, of ten pounds, stufted, three hours. Brisket of Veal, of eight pounds, two hours. Loin, of eight to nine pounds, two hours. Leg of Lamb, of six pounds, one and a half hour. Loin, of three to four pounds, one hour and a quarter. Leg of Pork, of eight pounds, two hours and three quarters. Loin of Pork, of six pounds, two hours. Goose, if large, from one hour to one and a half. Green Goose, fifty minutes to an hour. Ducks, if large, fifty minutes. Hare, an hour and quarter to an hour and half. Turkey, from two and a half to three and a half hours, according to size. Leveret, fifty minutes. Rabbits, large, one hour. Wild Duck, thirty-five minutes. Partridges, large, thirty-five minutes. Pigeons, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Chickens, from twenty to fifty minutes, according to the size. Black Cock, from an hour to an hour and quarter. Pig from an hour and quarter to two hours, according to the size. Large Fowl, sixty-five minutes. Ox-Heart, stufied, if large, two hours and a half. Calf's Heart, one hour. Grouse, thirty-five minutes. N.B.—In frosty weather, a few minutes more is to he allowed, and much will always depend on the size of the fire, and the way in which it is kept up; and we reckon upon every thing being held back from the scorching heat of the fire when first put down. It must also be kept in mind that we refer to ordinary kitchen- fires, not to the raging furnaces of Club-houses and large hotels, where the processes are considerably shorter. Frying. Soles, from seven to ten minutes, according to size. Slices of Cod, Salmon, Turbot, or any large thick fish, twelve minutes. Fillets of, rolled up circularly, ten to fifteen minutes. Herrings, Whitings, and small Haddocks, from eight to twelve minutes. Whitings and small Flounders, six to eight minutes. Skate, in slices, ten to twelve minutes. Eels, twelve minutes. Tripe, in batter, faur minutes. Perch and Smelts, if small, five minutes. Oysters, for garnishing, three minutes. Pancakes, from one to three minutes. Fritters, in batter, the fruit previously stewed or roasted, four or five minutes. Fritters of fresh sliced apples, in batter, eight minutes. Rissoles and Croquets, of dressed mincemeat, five minutes. Potatoes, cold, in slices, three minutes. Eggs, three minutes. N.B.—The above time is rather in excess, as the safe side.