374 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 666. Game Salad or of Fowl.—Roast a couple of grouse, a pheasant or blackcock, or a fowl, or rather use any of those left cold. Cut them into eight or ten handsome pieces. Soak these in a basin with sliced onion, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Toss them about to imbibe these seasonings, and when they have lain an hour, dress the dish meant to receive them with a border of hard-boiled eggs cut, and stuck into a thin border of butter. Garnish with divided slices of beetroot, cucumbers, and gherkins. Fill the centre of the dish with finely chopped salad-herbs, and, dipping each piece of the game or fowl into Mayonnaise sauce, build them up as a pyramid, the handsomest uppermost; and, when ready to serve, pour Mayonnaise sauce over the centre. This is nearly M. Soyer's way, and we give it as a sort of general receipt for dressing meat and fish salads; the only thing left to the cook is to select the sauce for the salad, and the proper seasonings. By salad-herbs we mean let- tuce, endive, cress, and whatever of this kind is eaten un- dressed.—No. 669. 667. Poulets aux Huitres—Young Fowls with Oyster-sauce, —Stiffen a quarter of a hundred of oysters in their own strained juice. Cool, beard, and stew them in a little veloute^ or in two ounces of butter melted, and thickened with a little flour; add white pepper, the squeeze of a lemon, and two spoonfuls of cream, and pour this hot over two roasted fowls, or serve the oyster-sauce in a tureen separately.—See No. 515. 668. Fricassee des Poulets d la Paysanne,—a plain Fri- cassee of Chickens.— Singe two fat white chickens very well. Skin and carve them smoothly with a very sharp knife, exactly as at table. Wash them in lukewarm water, and blanch them over the fire a few minutes to whiten and firm the flesh. Plunge them in cold water to whiten farther, and then put them into a very nice stewpan, with three ounces of butter, a fagot of parsley and green onions, and a cupful of nicely-trimmed button-mushrooms. When warmed through, and a little tinged with colour, dredge on flour, and add salt, white pepper, and a little of the liquor they were blanched in. Let the fricassee simmer for a half-hour, or more if the chickens are large. Then lift them into another saucepan. Skim off the fat, and reduce the sauce