342 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. Ohs. Eggs may be made into a pie, using mince-pie meat with tlie hard-boiled chopped eggs. They may be served as a vol-au-ventj or with sippets, etc. Eggs may be filled with a relishing forcemeat, using the hard yolks as a part of the farce. Of''the three hundred ways" of cooking eggs, we have given enough. The cook must use her discretion in the variations upon eggs and omelets.—See Nos. 51, 675, 676, 677, and 737. 574. Vol-au-mnt—With a paste-runner cut puff-paste which has got six turns and been doubled, into the shape of the dish in which the vol-au-vent is to be served. Lay it on a baking-tin with a ledge, and ornament and brush it over with yolk of egg. Open it lightly all round with the point of a knife, leaving an edge, and when baked in a sharp oven, open the place marked, without breaking the top; scrape out all the inside paste, fill with any white fricassee, as chickens, rabbits, sweetbreads, or with scollops of turbot or cod, fillets of soles, etc., and replace the top.—Ohs, One main use of a vol-uu-vent is, that it gives a handsome form to things left cold. For second courses, vols-au-vent may be fancifully marked round the border in a wreath of leaves, and have sweetmeats or delicately-dressed vegetables served in them. 575. Edgings to Dishes.—These are made (to serve made- dishes in) of bread, rice, mashed or small peeled potatoes, hard-boiled eggs, sliced beet, lemon, etc., and also orna- mented pastry edgings: and for sweet dishes (served in glass or china) of small drop-biscuit, caramelled fruit, nuts, or almonds, stuck on with candied sugar. These edgings, and casseroles^ croustades, casserolettes, and other garnitures^ are most suitable to French dishes. 576. Bread-Borders.—Take firm stale bread, cut the crumb into slices of the thickness of the blade of a knife; stamp those slices into any form; heat pot-top oil in a stew- pan, and put in the sippets; fry them some white and some brown. When crisp, drain and dry them; and put them up separately in paper cases according to form and colour. When they are wanted, pierce the end of an egg, let a little of the white out, and beat it with the blade of a knife; mix a little flour; heat your dish a little; dip one side of the