CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 472 you have a weak jelly. This is an easily-made and favourite nutritive cream. 892. Ratafia-Cream,—Mix a quarter-pint of ratafia or noyeau with the same quantity of white wine, sugar to taste, and the juice of a lemon and of a Seville orange. Whisk this with a pint of good cream, adding more sugar, if neces- sary, and fill the glasses. Ratafia-cream may also be made of the beat yolks of four or five eggs, with a quart of cream and two glasses of brandy, scalded together (but not boiled) over the fire. If moulded, add melted isinglass, and proceed as for other creams made in shapes. 893. A plain Cream.—Boil a pint of milk and one of cream, with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, fine sugar to sweeten, a dozen almonds, and three bitter ones, beaten to a paste with orange-flower-water. Thicken with a little rice-flour rubbed down in milk, and give it a scald. When cold, put a little lemon-juice to the cream, and fill the glasses. A very little nutmeg or cinnamon may, or may not, be strewed over this and other creams in cups. 894. Orange-Cream^ an elegant Cream,—Wipe with a damp towel, and grate and put aside the thick coarse parts of a Seville orange rind; then pare and boil the skin till soft, changing the water. Beat this in a marble mortar, and put to it a spoonful of brandy, the juice of the orange strained, four ounces of fine sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. iBeat these ingredients thoroughly well for a quarter of an hour, and then by degrees mix with them a pint of cream that has boiled; keep beating till the whole is cold; then put it into custard-cups, and set these in a kettle of boiling water to thicken. Wipe the cups, let the cream thicken farther by cooling, and garnish with thin parings of preserved orange-chips.—Ohs. By the addition of isinglass this cream may be made in a mould. 895. Lemon-Cream. — Make as coffee-cream, but use lemon-rind instead of coffee, to give the flavour. — Ohs. Every variety of cream may Idc made in the same manner, only changing the flavour, as pistachio-cream of the nuts, chocolate and tea creams, by employing an infusion as directed in No. 891. Fresh Orange-flowers make a delicately-flavoured cream. 896. Canary or Sack Cream.—To a half-pint of cream