336 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. Britanny Toasts were made of chopped salad-herbs, with salad-sauce. Veal-kidney Toasts were rather a luscious mess; the minced kidney, seasoned with eschalot and parsley, and mixed with egg and bread-crumbs, was in fact a piquant forcemeat spread on a toast, which was baked and served hot. Ham Toasts were made thus :—The slices were soaked to freshen them, in the first place, when this was needful, or the ham was minced. Afterwards they were soaked in a stewpan in butter and seasonings for a few minutes; the toasts were fried in the same pan. The slices were drained and dished hot on the toasts, and a little hot gravy, with pepper, salt, and vinegar, poured over them. There were toasts still more recherche made of fat livers, skate-livers, etc., all appropriate to the rere supper of old convivial times, but scarcely admissible into the cookery of modern regu- larly-constituted families. See Hors d^ceuvres^ French Cookery, No. 6782. 555. BamaJdns.—Take equal parts of sound Cheshire and double Gloucester cheese and of fresh butter, and having crumbled or grated the cheese, beat the whole to a paste, with three or four raw yolks of eggs, and the crumb of a new French roll previously soaked in hot milk. Mix the paste with the whites of two of the eggs first well whisked. Season with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Fill small paper pans, or very small saucers, half-full with the mixture, and bake the ramakins in a Dutch oven. Serve them quite hot, which is peculiarly requisite for every relish- ing preparation of cheese.— Obs. This batter is also served over boiled macaroni; or with stewed celery, asparagus, cauliflower, or brocoli. Stilton, Parmesan, or Greuyere cheese will make a more relishing ramakin where expense is not considered.—See Fondu, French Cookery, No. 678, and No. 553. 556. Fastry BamaMns.—Take any bits of puff-paste that remain from covering pies, tarts, etc., and roll them lightly out. Sprinkle grated cheese of any rich high-flavoured kind over them. Fold the paste up in three, or only double it, but sprinkle every fold with grated cheese. Shape the ramakins with a paste-runner to any shape, and bake and serve them hot on a napkin or as relishes. This is almost the French Brioche au fromage.