62 COMPANY SUPPERS. disposed, to gratify the eye, however slender the repast with which they are intermixed. When a formal substantial supper is set out, the principal dishes are understood to be roasted game or poultry, cold meats sliced, ham, tongue, collared and potted things, grated beef, Bologna sausage, Dutch herring, kipper, highly-seasoned cold pies of game, etc., etc., with occasionally soup—an addi- tion to modern suppers which, after the heat and fatigue of a ball-room, or large party, is found peculiarly grateful and re- storative. Minced white meats, lobsters, oysters, collared eels, and crawfish dressed in various forms; sago, rice, the more delicate vegetables, poached eggs, scalloped potatoes, are all suitable articles of the solid kind. To these are added, ices, cakes, tarts, possets, creams, jellies in glasses or shapes, custards, preserved or dried fruits, pancakes, fritters, puffs, tartlets, grated cheese, butter in little shapes, sandwiches; and for convivial suppers in the entire catalogue of the more stimulating dishes, as anchovy toasts, grilled bones, Welsh, English, and Scotch rabbits, roasted onions, salmagundi, smoked sausages sliced, many of the things the French name Jiors d'oeuvresj and those other preparations which are best adapted to what among ancient hon-vivants was called the rere-suppevj or supper next morning." A supper-table should neither be too much crowded nor too much scattered and broken with minute dishes. Any larder moderately stored will furnish a few substantial articles for supper on an emergency; and a few sweet things readily prepared, or purchased, with patties, shell-fish, and fruits, will do the rest, if the effect of contrasted colours, flavours, and forms, be understood ; and that light and graceful disposition of trifles which is the chief art in setting off such entertain- ments. Where small apartments, and crowded parties in- troduce the custom of standing suppers, the same cold dishes are suitable, served on high tables, and eaten on one's knee, or standing. French wines have become an article of ambitious display at fashionable suppers, even in families of the middle rank. Where they can be afforded in excellence and variety, nothing can be more appropriate to a light, showy, exhilarating repast. Solid supper articles will generally answer for luncheons or comfortable collations—and for that refreshment affectedly termed Tiffin.