19 ST RON an'S CULINARY CLUB. ordered, old-fashioned inn, where excellent small dinners were served, the Doctor ordered his low-hung, well-cushioned chariot, and on the second morning of his residence at St Ronan's Well, set out to reconnoitre the capabilities of this land of promise. The Nabob, unshaved, half-dressed, blue and yellow, fallen off in flesh, and given up to melancholious fancies about bilious attacks and the fall of stocks, the vanity of riches, and the moral impossibility of Scotch cooks ever boiling rice properly, was, when the Doctor drove in sight, lounging at his parlour window, directing the old gray ostler in curry- ing the old gray horse; but with little of his former spirit and promptitude. It was a critical conjunction. The eyes of the three persons—the Doctor, the Nabob, and the Ostler —were instantly attracted to a spectacle in which all man- kind take more or less interest,—a pair of Mistress Dods' game-cocks, that had lustily commenced a sparring-match. The Ostler staid his currycomb and its hissing accompani- ment, and clapped his hands to cheer the combatants; the Nabob flung up the sash; and the Doctor drew up to con- template the conflict. The feathered combatants fought it out gallantly,—each, no doubt, animated by the knightly consciousness that "his lady saw him," till one dropped dead and the other staggered over.—" Well done, Charlie! —^bravely fought, Charlie!" cried the Ostler, lifting up the survivor. " Admirable cock-a-leekie," said the Doctor, touching the deceased with the end of his whip; all the better for the fight; it would raise the creature's blood.—A fine brood that!" addressing the Ostler, and throwing eyes of love on a set of ducklings, just escaped from the shell, that were innocently disporting themselves in a little puddle, near some goodly rows of green pease in a more advanced state of vegetation than any the Doctor had seen since he had crossed the Border; " these ducklings will, however, be too old before the pease are ready. Strange stupidity not to