74 CHAP. II.—BOILING. Sauce and Stuffing for Boiled Turkey, Fowls, or Veal. Crumbs of stale bread, two parts; suet, marrow, or fresh butter, one part; a little parsley, boiled for a minute, and very finely shred; the quarter of a small nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of lemon-rind grated, allspice and salt,—the whole to be worked up to a proper consistence, with two yolks of eggs well beat." If for roasted or boiled turkey, pickled oysters chopped, ham or tongue grated, and eschalot to taste, may be added. Meg's sweet stuffing was made by discard- ing the parsley, ham, oysters, and tongue, and substituting a large handful of currants, picked, rubbed, and dried, as for puddings. For honing fowls or turkeys, see the thing done, [A common and an approved smuggling way of boiling a pullet or how-towdie in Scotland, was, in a well-cleaned haggis-bag, which must have preserved the juices much better than a cloth. In the days of Popery and good cheer, —and they were certainly synonymous,—though we do not quite subscribe to the opinion of Dr Redgill, that no Presbyterian country can ever attain eminence in Gastron- omy,—in those days of paternosters and venison pasties, stoups of untaxed claret and oral confession, a pullet so treated was, according to waggish legends, the secret regale provided for Mess John by his fair penitents.—Vide Allan Ramsay's " Monk and Miller's Wife,'' or " The Friars of Berwickalso, " Traditions of the Cleikum," and " Bught- ri,2:g's Wife's Receipt for ' Ane capon stewed in brewis.' "— Butter, shred onions, and spice, were put into the bag along with the fowl, and formed the sauce; or else oysters with their liquor strained.] 9. To Boil Bacon. Bking slowly to boil, and simmer for at least two hours. When ready to serve, strip off the rind, and dry the meat with a red hot shovel, or salamander, or set it in the oven to dry up the oozing fat. Dredge bread-raspings over it. 10. To Boil a Ham.* A LAPvGE ham is seldom boiled at once, but whether in * A Hamburgh or Westphalia ham requires longer soaking than one of Bayonne, or one home made.— We back a Westmoreland or Yorkshire, a Gl( ueester, Wiltshire, or Drumfriesshire ham well fattened and properly cured, against all the hams in the world.—P. T.