HAM HAM WITH MADEIRA. 75 whole or in part, it must be treated in the same way. Pork is so well adapted to salting that though kept for years it does not become so hard or tough as beef or mut- ton would do in half the time. The main point is the soak- ing^ which the discretion of the cook must proportion to the hardness and saltness of the meat. If very old, briny, and dry, it will require from three to four days, in and out of the water, to soften and become mellow. The night before it is boiled, pour lukewarm water over it, scrape it very well, and trim off all rusty ill-looking bits. Put it in on oval kettle with plenty of water. Let it soak for an hour or two before coming to the boil,—then quicken the boil, and skim. Then let it simmer slowly by the side of the fire for from two to five hours, according to the weight. When done, pull off the skin neatly and keep it to cover the ham when set by cold; strew bread-raspings (and many pour spirits) over it, and place it on a hot dish set over the pot before the fire, to brown and crisp. It will crisp easier if put in an oven to dry up the oozing fat. Twist a fringe of writing paper neatly round the shank. Garnish if you choose with old-fashioned greens, or stew raspings in little heaps on the ledge of the dish; or better, dish it over dressed Windsor beans.—See Glazing, We have seen fresh ham admirably done by a quick boiling of one hour, and then, after it is skinned, toasting in the American oven till done. 11. Ham with Madeira. The French Jamhon Braise, Take a small fresh North of England ham. Saw off the knuckle, or the ham may be boned if wished. Let it soak if likely to be briny, and simmer it for an hour; then drain, trim, and dry it. Lay it in a braising pan, or oval-shaped stew-pan that will just hold it, and in which you have pre- viously laid slices of veal, carrots, onions, parsley, and spices. Pour in some good broth (about a quart), and a bottle of Madeira. When done for an hour take off the lid, and let the braise reduce. In a half-hour more, probe to try whetlier the ham is done. Drain and skin, and dry it in the oven. Glaze with veal glaze: serve the braise liquor, well re- duced and skimmed as sauce.—Obs, Ham may be glazed enough by shifting fine sugar over it, and holding a red hot poker above ; but sweet glaze is, in our opinion, not suitable