115 FEYING-FATS. 44. To Clarify Butter for Potting or Frying, and Suet and Dripping for Frying. Cut the butter in slices; put it into a jar, which set in a pan of boiling water till it melt. Skim it, take it out, and when it has cooled a little, pour it gently off, holding back the curdy sediment. Mutton and beef suet and lard may be roughly chopped, have all the skin and fibrous parts taken out, and either be gradually melted over a slow fire, or before the fire in a Dutch oven, taking away the fat as it drops. In this last process there is less danger of the fat acquiring a burnt taste than when rapidly melted into tallow over the fire. Another good way.—Boil down the suet in water, and when cold, take off the cake of fat. In each case strain the fat and keep back the sediment. Dripping and melted suet* are used for pie-crust, and for basting and homely soups, as well as for frying. Their suitableness for all these purposes depends, in a great measure, on the way in which they have been melted and preserved. When dripping is to be kept for soup, it may be seasoned, not otherwise. It may be highly purified by twice clarifying. A bit of charcoal, or a charred toast thrown into it, will help to remove a rancid taint. 45. To Melt Lard for Frying, etc., and to make Lard. Either melt it as in last receipt, or skin, beat, and boil the hog's caul slowly, and lay it in a little water, working it with the hand. When it will easily break with the fingers, let it cool, and rub it through a sieve. Hang the lard in bladders or nets in a cool place. Another way,—Melt the lard in a stone jar set in boiling water; pour it carefully from the sediment, and keep it in bladders or small jars. Lard for larding.—Rub the lard when taken from the pig with pounded salt. Lay two pieces together, put a heavy weight over them. Let it lie from four to six weeks, then skewer and hang it to dry, in a dry, cool, airy place. It cannot be used /or larding till it get quite firm. See Nos. 57, 58. Where there is not a thorough-bred cook, employ your poulterer to lard, whether/r/cancZeaw^c or birds. * For an excellent way of using beef suet, see Paste of Beef Suet for Piesi etc. No. 774.