522 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS. ETC. ounces of the best refined sugar, or of syrup, and a quart of the best brandy. Strain through a jelly-bag, and flavour to taste with a half-ounce of cinnamon and a drachm of cloves, bruised and infused in brandy for a fortnight before, and strained, or with cloves alone, which is more appropriate. 1063. Cherry Brandy or Whisky.—Pick morella, or black cherries, from the stalks, and drop them into bottles, till the bottles are three-quarters full; fill up with brandy or flavour- less whisky. In three weeks strain off the spirits, and season with cinnamon and clove mixture, as in last receipt, adding syrup to taste. Ratafia should not be sweet. A second weaker decoction may be obtained by pouring more spirits on the fruit. This is good to flavour several pudding- sauces. 1063^. Lemon-Brandy for sweet entremets.—Pour over the zest of a dozen lemons, pared as for punch, and put in a wide-necked bottle, a quart of brandy. Cork and macerate for a month, and use as you need it. It will keep long. 1063^. Maraschino.—A good imitation of this favourite liqueur is made by stoning and mashing as many ripe morellas as will measure a quart. Have the same measure of the small black or brandy cherry, the Scottish gean^ and mashed raspberries. Pound the stones of half the morella cherries and of half the geans, with one ounce of peach leaves, and two of black currant leaves. To this compound mash add two quarts of rectified spirit, or better, of genuine brandy, with a drachm of catechu in powder. Infuse for a month, and then distil, by a slow heat, till the liqueur be- gins to look thick. Or simple filtration will do, though not so well. 1064. Black-Cherry-Brandy.—Put to three quarts of brandy four pounds of stoned black cherries;—bruise the stones, and add them to the mixture. Infuse for a month; —filter, and add the same flavouring ingredients and syrup directed above. A second infusion may be made, which will require more seasoning than that first drawn.—Ohs. Perfumes^ though sometimes used, are out of place in com- pounds of this kind. The blossoms of the sloe, infused for six weeks in spirits, make a sort of Ratafia. 10642. Ratafia of Four Fruits,—Have equal quantities of