ROUND OF BEEF BEEF LEG OF MUTTON. 69 the liquor is to be afterwards used for pease or potato soup, tlie roots instead of hurting will improve the flavour. Greens may be boiled in the same pot, but much better separately in some of the pot-liquor. When the meat is dished, ladle up some of the liquor to wash it, and with a clean sponge, or a cloth moistened in the pot-liquor, take off any scum or films which will often hang about salted meat; replace the skewer that holds the flap with a plated or silver one; garnish with large sliced carrots (or with greens or cabbage instead), and serve greens in separate dishes. A miniature round is made by boning and rolling up from six to ten pounds of thick of the ribs. Salt for a week; simmer for 1^ or 2 hours, according to weight. See No. 388. Obs. The dry outside slices are to be laid aside by the carver : the meat must be cut in smooth, thin, horizontal or diagonal slices, keeping the surface level. The soft fat eats best when the meat is warm, tlie firmer fat when it is cold; but the taste of the guests must be the carver's guide. By good management this meat will in cold weather keep for a fortnight or more. Cover it with several folds of soft cloth. Cut off a thin slice from the outside before it is at any tim.e presented at table, or on the sideboard. If underdone, the meat, after keeping some time, may be put into pot- liquor, and get from 15 to 35 minutes' slow boiling. This receipt is equally applicable to every piece of salted beef, whether ribs, brisket, edge-bone, or heuckbane. In England, a few suet or plain flour-dumplings, or what are provincially called dough-boys, are often boiled with the round and served with it " hot and hot." The Reform Club authority suggests that when to be presented cold, the round taken from the boiling pot should be plunged into ice, or several courses of spring water, to freeze the surface and retain the juices. 2. Boiled Beef, or Bonilli Ordinaire. This is another plain family dish,—boiled fresh beef; but as economy, good sense, and, what is the same thing, good taste, reject this mode of dressing beef but in conjunction with the soup, which forms the better part of it, we leave the Bouilli till we give it along with the Bouillon^ though obliged, for connexion's sake, to notice it here. See No. 389. 3. To Boil a Leg^ of Mutton with Turnip, etc. A LEG OF MUTTON—the gigot of the French and Scottish kitchen—may be kept from two days to a week before boiling. The pipe, as it is technically called, must be cut out at once, and the mustiness which gathers on the sur- face, and in the folds and soft places, daily rubbed off. It is