DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 49 Roasted Pig,—We could wish that the practice of having this dish carved by the cook were universal; for, in this fastidious age, the spectacle of a four-footed animal at table is anything but acceptable. Like the larger poultry, pig is also very troublesome to the carver, who must have a sharp knife, with which the head is to be taken off in the first place: then cut down the back from neck to rump; after- wards remove the shoulder and leg on each side. The ribs are then to be divided into four portions, and the legs and shoulders cut in two. The ribs were esteemed the most delicate part of this dish; now the neck of a well-roasted pig is the favourite morsel. The carver must use his dis- cretion in distributing ear and cheek, as far as these will go; and the cook should enable him to help stuffing and sauce liberally. Hams are cut in various ways. You may begin near the knuckle, which is the most economical method; in the middle, taking out slices in a slanting direction, that the fat and lean may be fairly divided ; or at the broad end. The chief thing to be attended to, after an incision is made, is the delicacy of the slices. Tongue,—The best part is the thickest, and the meat is most delicate when cut across in rather thin slices. Some leave a bottom or sole for the sake of appearance; others reckon it more economical to carve in thin slices the long way. Tongue and ham cannot be too delicately cut. Cod^s Head and Shoulders^ if served plain or without a sauce in the dish, should be served on a napkin. If suffi- ciently boiled it is easily carved. Let the back of the fish be placed towards the carver. Enter the silver fish-slice w^ithin three inches of the head, and cut across down to the bone. Help from this opening right and left at conve- nience, taking care not to make a jagged surface by break- ing the flakes. The gelatinous pieces about the neck and head are prized, and also a small slice of the sound. The palate and tongue may be got at with a spoon, but these are rather the fantastic than prime parts. Some cut the fish longways; but the above is perhaps the fairer mode. Haunch of Venison.—Make an incision quite down to the bone in the direction of the line a h, to let the gravy flow. Let the carver then turn the dish towards himself, and cut