284 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES and Gut away all the gristly parts, and the coarse inner skin. Dry it, and strew over the inside chopped herbs and Cook's pepper, No. 334. Roll it up as tightly as possible, bind it with broad fillets of strong cloth, and these with tape ; press it under a heavy weight, and then undo the bandages and re-fasten them (as the meat will have shrunk), and make the ends very fast. It will require from three to four hours slow but constant simmering. When done, press it again while still bound; and when cold, undo the bandages. It may first be served hot, with savoys or carrot, but it is most valued for slicing cold.—Ohs. A large fore-quarter of mutton, with the shoulder-blade cut out, will collar^ and so will veal, but neither of these eat nearly so well as collared beef.— Beef is pressed flat to slice for sandwiches or to eat cold, exactly in the above manner, but then it is not bound up: it eats as well, and is prepared with much less trouble. Spiced and collared beef is now prepared for sale,—so very good that we hesitate to give directions about it: Glasgow and the West of Scotland is famous for this preparation. 393. To Roast Collared Ribs of Beef—Take out the bones when the meat has hung till tender, beat, season it highly with spices and herbs, and, rolling tightly up, roast or bake it, or dress it as Hunter's beef.—Ohs, This is an excellent and economical dish, as a good soup can at once be made from the trimmings and bones cut out. A neck, or back- ribs of mutton, boned, seasoned, and sprinkled with dried parsley and sage, will roast as above, and the bones and scrag make rice-soup or barley-broth; but we would rather recommend this to the economist than to the fastidious eater; for although two good dishes are by this means presented at table, this particular piece of meat eats better dressed as chops, pie, bouilli, or curry, than as a roast, when the roti can be dispensed with. 394. Brisket of Beef d la Flamande,—Take eight pounds of the gristly nice part of the brisket; trim and season it. Put it to stew in a stewpan with the trimmings, and a slice of two of streaked bacon under and over it. Put to it carrots and turnips cut and scooped into the shapes of cocks' combs, pigeons' eggs, ejic, and also some cabbage previously dressed in top-fat or good broth. Arrange the vegetables with a few glazed onions round the meat, and thicken a pint of the