237 GRAVY FOR SAUCES, ETC. out, which will take above half-an-hour, put in the proper quantity of boiling water, a short pint to the pound and half—allowing a little for waste. Skim it well,—check the boil with cold water, and skim it again and again, if need- ful,—wipe the edges of the stew-pot and lid, and, covering close, let the gravy simmer for three hours by the fire. Let it settle, and strain it into an earthen or stoneware vessel, and keep it in a dry, cool place.—See Consomme^ French Cookery, Nos. 582, 583. 257, Savoury Brown Gravy, For Brown Sauces, Ragouts, and Fricassees. This brown savoury gravy, or foundation brown sauce, we conceive to be, for every useful purpose, equivalent to the Grande Espagnole or Italienne rousse of the French kitchen. Line the stew-pan with slices of lean ham or bacon; add to this four or five pounds of a fillet of veal cut in slices; moisten with a ladleful or two of good stock, with two carrots and two onions, or double the number if you, for future purposes, wish their flavour. The juices will soon form a glaze. Take the stew-pan off the fire, and prick the meat all over, to obtain all the juices ; moisten again with any broth you have, made of gelatinous meat, as poul- try, game, or rabbits; season with a fagot of herbs—pars- ley and a little young onion especially—and mushrooms, if you have them; to this add (according to your own judg- ment) a few^ cloves, a bay-leaf, a bit of garlic, and a head of celery. When ready, allow this (or any gravy) to set- tle a few minutes before straining.—This gravy may be very conveniently made jugged. Cut down the ingredients, and put them in a jar ; cover it close, and set it in an oven or over a stove for a half-hour; add boiling-water, and let the preparation stove slowly till wanted.—Brown gravy may be varied and enriched in many ways, by the addition of red wines, flavoured'vinegars, eschalot, tarragon, mush- rooms, curry-powder, truffles, and morells, artichoke-bottoms, anchovy, pickled oysters,—in short, whatever is best fitted to improve and heighten the relish of the dish it is to sauce. Keep for use, and thicken it with brown thickening. No. 255, when wanted. Gravies may be cleared, if needful, with white of eggs before adding the thickening. See iVbie, No. 63.