328 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. important rule is, to have good stock; and the sole art con- sists in hitting the just medium in seasoning, or in suiting the tastes of the individuals for whom the curry is pre- pared. Our Indian friends must forgive us for just hinting that their censure of English curries is somewhat unquali- fied. We have elsewhere [No. 154] said that any positive formula for the preparation of curry-powders is quite as absurd as it would be to give every sort of ragout the same quantity of seasoning, consisting of the same ingredients. There are no prepared universal curry-powders for all pur- poses in India. The native cook suits his seasonings to the particular dish he is dressing, and the taste of his employers. Compound dry powders were adopted to suit voyagers six months at sea, where the ingredients could not be got fresh. Now that we may have green chilies, and when cocoa-nuts are selling in barrows on all our streets, with an endless variety of cultivated vegetables and fruits, acid and sub- acid, which India never knew, it is idle to talk longer of the superiority of the native curry-seasonings. In the first place, the kind of viand to be curried should be ascertained, and the seasoning in every case adapted to the character and quality of the meat. A curry of chicken, for example, and one of pork, or of cod, require very different powders, even with the helps or correctives the cook may administer in the course of her labours. We do not wish to become " an advertising mediumfor particular Italian warehouses; but many of them sell curry-powders which have at least a chance of h^mg fresh; and those scientifically prepared by chemists and sold in druggists' shops, are as good as any wholesale preparations of the same thing for every kind of meat can ever be. Besides, we never yet knew an old Indian who had not his own favourite recipe, Delhi^ or Felim^Sj or Pottinger, or Bengal, etc., etc. To Curry Meat or Chickens,—Cut up the chickens, fowls, rabbits, veal, lamb, fish, etc., etc., into pieces proper to be helped at table, and rather small than large. Fry this cut meat in butter, with sliced Spanish or button-onions, and a few chopped mushrooms, or mushroom-powder, till of a pale amber colour. When the meat is browned, add nearly a pint of good mutton or veal stock unseasoned; and when this has simmered slowly for a quarter of an hour, or more if the fowls are old, add from two to three dessertspoonfuls