373 HARE, POULTRY, AND GAME. Have lardons seasoned with salt, pepper, fine spices, and herbs. Lard the breast and the thighs. Put slices of bacon in a braising-pan, and place the turkey on these with a cut hock of ham, and a calf s foot broken, the trimmings of the turkey, five onions, stuck with four cloves, three carrots, two bay-leaves, three or four sprigs of thyme, a bunch of parsley, and young onions. Lay slices of bacon over the turkey ; moisten with four spoonfuls of melted butter ; cover with three rounds of buttered paper, and let it sim- mer slowly for five hours; take it from the fire, but do not lift it for another half hour, that it may not get dry. Strain the gravy and boil it down. Beat an egg well in a sauce- pan, and pour the gravy (or jelly rather) into this. Whip it well; put it on the fire; when just come to boil, place it on the side of the furnace; cover it with a lid which will bear embers over it; let it remain for a half-hour with embers over; strain again, and with this jelly cover the dished tur- key. Lievre en dauhe, the same. Turkey stuffed with truffles, or Dindo7i aux Truffes^ is now imported, ready to cook, 663. Fowl a la Chingara, A favourite small dish. Cut a fat white fowl in four, across and down the back. Melt a bit of butter in a stcAvpan, and lay four slices from a good part of an undressed ham in the pan. Place the cut fowl on this with a little water, and stew it very slowly on embers. When done, drain off the fat. Pour over the glaze, which will have formed at the bottom, a little Espagnole^ and rub in a little cayenne, salt, and pepper. Meanwhile have YQd^dij four toasts. Fry them in the fat you poured off the fowl, dust them with pepper and salt, and serve them between the slices of ham, on each slice of which a quarter of the fowl is to be laid. See No. 640. 664. Fowls a la Ravigote.—Rodi^t the fowls, and serve them with Ravigote-sauce. 665. Poulets d la Tartare. Roasted young fowls with Tartar-sauce.—See Nos. 592, 27, and Turkey en galantine. 665^. Fowl d la Campire.—Slit the breast of a roasted fowl to let the juice flow out; lay thinly-sliced raw onions in the slits, and serve with a brown poivrade in the dish.