CHAP. III. MAKING CHEESE. 588 not have the milk too hot, and employ no more yearning {i.e. rennet) than will barely serve to curdle it.* When fully coagulated, gently, and without much handling or breaking, gather the curd into a cloth, which place in a deep sieve or net, and afterwards, when firm enough to lift, in a Stilton-shaped cheese-hoop. Afterwards steep the cheese in pickle; then dry it, changing the binders very frequently. All fine cheese should Ibe rubbed and turned every day for the first two months.f 1208. Imitation of Double Gloucester. Beceipt hy wJdch the Speci- men was made for which the Highland Society gave their first Premium. —This specimen was what is called a one-meal cheese, that is, made of the milk obtained at one milking. The morning's milking is reckoned the richest. Strain the milk into the tub. Colour it slightly with annatto as above described. Put the rennet to it. The quantity of rennet must be proportioned to its strength. In ordinary circum- stances a spoonful will coagulate tAventy quarts of milk. AVhen the curd has set (dairymaids know this by the green colour of the whey), press ofi" the whey with skimmers; and next press the curd to the sides of the tub till it get firm. Cut it into cubes of an inch ; and, gathering it into a cloth, place it in the sieve or hoop, which should have a cover fitted to slip down within, on which place a weight of a half-hundred to press it moderately. Let it at this time stand near the fire. When drained, which will be in about twenty minutes, cut the curd still smaller than before, and place it as before in the hoop for another twenty minutes, and near a fire. Next put it into the tub, and mince it into very small bits with the three-bladed knife used for this purpose in dairies, or any substitute. Now salt the curd, which must be done to taste, but mix the salt well with it; and, gathering, bind it up into the sort of cloth used in dairies. Place it in the chessel in the cheese-press for a day or more, changing the cloth or binder as often as it gets wet. When the cloth remains dry, the cheese may be presumed dry. For some weeks after, turn frequently. Rub the cheese, and, if you like, wash it moderately with warm whey. In this experiment one hundred quarts of milk produced a cheese of thirty pounds. * If the cream is used, which, for a prime cheese, it should be, skim it off; and heat, and have hot in readiness as much of the skim-milk as, with the fresh milk from the cow, will make the whole warm enough for the rennet: then pour back the cream. Mix and add the rennet. -|- In Inverness and Eoss shires, there is a rural breakfast article called croiudie, not the Lowland composition, oatmeal and water or milk, but made thus :—Take two parts fresh sweet-milk curd, and one of fresh butter. "Work them well together, and press them in a basin or small shape, and turn out, when it will slice nicely. When whey is much used for drink in hot weather, the curd may be usefully thus disposed of. Crowdie is eaten with bread and butter, and keeps a long time, if haut gout is liked. This preparation, when the curd is well broken and blended with the butter, is sometimes made up in deep narrow cogs, or wooden moulds, and kept for months, when it becomes very high flavoured, though still mellow. The celebrated Arabian cheese is made in the same way in vats, and both are, of their kind, uncommonly fine. These preparations deserve trial. In the Lowlands this is sometimes seen, but it is not kept, and is, for this reason, called a one day''s cheese.—P. T. See No. 1210.