394 CH4F. II. FRENCH COOKERY. in very small dice into tlie paste before baking it. Brioche cakes are generally made with a bead and sole or flat part, like our muffins. These are separately shaped in the hand, and then stuck together; a smaller top or bottom of the paste is clapped on above all, where the top is a little dinted in. The cakes are brushed with beat eggs, and baked in a quick oven. If large, Brioche cakes, like all cakes, require a steady, but not quick heat, else they will scorch before getting baked to the heart.—By H, J., Ecuyer tranchant to the St Ronan's Club. 718. Chantilly Baskets.—French cooks often make these of very small choux of pdte-royale^ instead of the ratafia-bis- cuits used in this country. The method is the same. When the little biscuits or choux are baked quite crisp, have ready some sugar clarified and boiled to crackling height. Stick a small skewer into each biscuit, and dip its edge in the sugar. Fix them one by one, as dipt, round a dish or mould that will shape your basket. When one row is done, begin another. The candied sugar will make the biscuits instantly stick. Use rather larger biscuit for the upper tiers, as the basket should widen towards the top. Three or four tiers will be enough of height. The handle will be most easily made by sticking the biscuits together round the ledge of a stewpan, first ascertaining the width of the arch; for really what is ordered in common receipt-books about "throwing over an arch," is easier said than done. An ornamental border of coloured drops of gum-paste may be given to the basket. Serve any dry sweatmeat you choose in the basket, which should first be lined with tissue-paper. 719. Bouchees des Damesj Ladies' Lips or Kisses.—Make a paste as for fine biscuits of six fresh eggs, with six ounces of sifted sugar, and three of rice-flour. Beat this very well; spread it thinly, and bake on paper on a buttered oven-tin for nearly twenty minutes. When fired, stamp out the paste the size of dollars, with ornamental stamps, and glaze with white, rose, or violet-coloured icing.—See To Ice Cakes, Nos. 1005, 1006. 719^. Petites Bouchees d la Patissiere.—Cut fifteen pieces out of puff-paste, rolled out to the eighth of an inch, with an oval fluted cutter, about two inches long, and one and * Properly, ladies' mouthfuls»