OF WILD FOWL. 327 poultry^ rabbits, and game may all be hashed as above. See that the hash-sauce be well thickened, smooth, and carefully cleared of all fat. Where there is any cold stuffing left, cut it into slices, and serve it warmed in the Dutch oven round the hashed meat. 532. To Hash Cold Wild Fowl.—Carve them as at table, and let them soak till hot in boiling gravy thickened with bread'crumbs, and seasoned with salt, mixed spices, a glass of claret, and a spoonful of lemon-pickle or orange-juice. Garnish with fried sippets. For partridges and pheasants use only white pepper and white wines.—N. Some gour- mands dislike bread-crumbs here.—See page 99. 533. To Ragout Wild Duck or Teal.—Half-roast the birds. Score the breast, but not deeply, and into each indenture put sufficient mixed spices and the squeeze of a lemon. Let the birds lie a few minutes, and then stew them till tender in good brown gravy. Take up the birds and keep them hot; add a glass of wine and three finely-shred eschalots to the gravy, and pour it hot over the ducks.—Obs. This is a dish of very high gout, and it is prized accordingly. In carving ducks, whether wild or domestic, after scoring the breast, it is an improvement to put a little butter over it, as wont to be done in shoulder of lamb, and a squeeze of bitter orange or lemon. Ducks are also re-dressed as curry, brown ragout, or even as a stew-soup. Ducks, and particularly the wildy may be dressed as civet of hare.—See also French Cookery, Salmis^ and No. 29. To Mince or Scallop a Cold Fowl.—Follow No. 464, add- ing any egg-sauce left, or chopped hard yolks of eggs to the mince, and garnish with fried parsley. 534. Chicken, Rabbit, and Veal, etc., as Curry. Bead Nos. 758, 7582. This common and favourite dish is at once economical, convenient at table, and of easy preparation. Our extend- ing and intimate relations with India had made curries po- pular, before the failure of the potato, and the greater neces- sity of using rice had introduced this mode of cookery into general use. All kinds of viands, cooked or raw, from th^ turtle to the shrimp, may be dressed as curry. The only