389 VEGETABLES, FRUIT, ETC. outwards. Pour a white Italian-sauce over them, and gar- nish with cresses. 703. French Beans d la Poulette.—When boiled (as di- rected page 208) very green, drain them. Reduce some sauce tournee. Thicken it with beat yolks of eggs, and pour this over the boiled beans. 704. Windsor Beans d la Poulette.—Boil fresh young beans. Stew them, first taking off the skins, and sauce them with veloute, 704^. Navets Vierge.—Peel and scoop out to the size of marbles, five or six good white turnips. Fry them with two ounces of butter and one of sugar. When covered with glaze, add above a quarter-pint of Bechamel or any good white sauce, and a half-glass of cream. Season with a very little salt, and white pepper. Yellow turnips may be dressed as above, brown, by using a quarter-pint of brown sauce, a glassful of Espagnole, and seasoning with a bunch of pars- ley, and a bay-leaf, pepper, and salt: skim carefully. Pick out the parsley and bay-leaf, and serve the ragout. 705. Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel.—Peel boiled potatoes and turn them the size of thick corks. Cut these in slices a half-inch thick. Put them into a stewpan with some sliced green onions and minced parsley, pepper, salt, and butter. Moisten with stock, and toss them till the pars- ley is cooked. 706. Endive for the Second Course.—Clean the endive by frequent washing, and plunge it head downmost in salt and water, to draw out those insects which often lodge in the leaves of vegetables. Blanch the heads, drain them, and, when cold, chop them fine. Stew them in veal-gravy with salt. When tender, add a little Espagnole^ and serve with poached eggs for second-course dishes, or under fricandeau, or with hashed mutton. 707. Compote de Cerises^—Compote of Cherries.—To a half-pound of clarified sugar put a pound of cherries, of which half the stalk is cut away. Give them a boil of three minutes. Skim, and serve them in a glass dish. Take out the stones and cut away the stalks, if wished. 707^. Ahricots au Riz.—Divide eighteen or twenty-four apricots. Fry them quickly (with the kernels blanched