CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 296 be potted as above without cutting up the birds, and will keep for at least a month. The birds should not be over done, and their gravy should be preserved along with them. 432. Made-Dishes of Veal. Veal is generally accompanied by acid sauces, as sorrel, or lemon. It is often the better of a relishing forcemeat ; and unless fat, young, tender, and white, cooks the better for a slice oL good bacon. It is far best well fattened, but not overgrown. 433. To Stew a Fillet of Veal.—The more slowly all meat, but especially veal, is stewed, the better. Allow at least a half-hour to the pound. Take off the knuckle either to stew, or for soup or gravy, and also the square end, which will cut up into cutlets, or olives, or make a pie. Cut out the bone and stuff the middle part of the fillet with a force- meat, as directed at Nos. 8, 692, and 693. Eoll it up tightly, skewer it and simmer very slowly in a close stew- pan that will just contain it. Lay skewers below to prevent the meat from sticking. When quite tender take it up, and strain and thicken the sauce. Serve with small mushrooms parboiled, and then stewed in the sauce, and season with white pepper, lemon-juice, and mace: or the sauce may be enriched with a few piclded oysters and forcemeat-balls, seasoned with a glass of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Garnish with lemon sliced. See No. 23.—Ohs. The fillet may be half baked, and finished by stewing. For dividing the fillet, see French Cookery^ No. 627. 434. To Stew a Breast of Veal, a Common Remove of Fish, or a Second-course Top-dish,—Choose thick, white veal. Chop off the neck and the bone, and stew them for gravy. Stuff the thin part of the breast with a relishing forcemeat, made of a sweetbread parboiled and minced, bread-crumbs, lemon-grate, nutmeg, pepper, salt, shred suet or veal-kidney fat, and yolk of egg to bind the forcemeat. Skewer the stuffing neatly in, or sew it in, and stew the meat for two hours in the gravy made of the neck, first egging and brown- ing it if you choose. Thicken a pint and a half of the sauce, and put to it fifty oysters stewed and cut, a few mushrooms chopped, lemon-juice, white pepper, and mace. Pour this hot over the stew, and garnish with slices of lemon and force-