CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 438 of three or four lemons, half an ounce of salt, and the same quantity of allspice, a pound of fine sugar pounded, and a pint and a half of Madeira, the half quantity of brandy and orange-flower water. Line the pans with a rich pufF-paste, fill, bake, and serve the pies hot, with burnt brandy.—Ohs. The brandy should be burnt at table as it is used. Though the mince-meat will keep good for a long while, it is best not too old. The fruit, suet, and wine may be added when the pies are to be made, as the suet and raw apples are apt to spoil; and the dried fruits, though in less danger, do not improve by keeping in the minced state. Mince-pies warm up very well in a Dutch oven or in a slack oven, before the fire, or on the hob. A good addition to mince-meat is a couple of lemons boiled and chopped, taking out the pips and coarse parts.—See Plum-pudding, 817. Common Apple, Gooseberry, or Rhubarb Pasties, or Turn-overs,—Make a hot crust with dripping or lard melted in boiling water; roll it out quickly, and stamp it so as to be of a semicircular form when turned over. Lay stewed apples, rhubarb, or scalded gooseberries, or any common jam, in the crust, with moist sugar to sweeten; add, if apples, quince, lemon-peel, or cinnamon; if rhubarb, ginger. Double up and pinch the crust. Trim the edges, and bake the pasties in a moderate oven. If there be icing at hand they may be iced. Puffs. These are called apple-puffs, lemon-puffs, cheese-puffs, egg-puffs, etc., taking the name from the principal ingre- dient in their composition.—See No. 810. 818. Apple-Puffs. — Stew, or roast apples till they will peel and pulp dry. Mix them with good beat sugar and finely-chopped lemon-peel. Bake them in rather thin sweet crust, in a quick oven. They are best when made rather small. 819. Lemon or Orange Puffs.—Grate down three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar, and mix it well with the grate of three lemons, or two Seville oranges. Beat the whites of four eggs to a solid-looking froth, and, putting this to the sugar, beat the whole together without intermission for half an hour. Drop this mixture into any variety of shapes,