232 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. mortar, or saucepan. As a general rule, brown sauces should be thinner than white. Cream should be boiled before it is mixed with any boiling soup or sauce. And all sauces served over meat should be thick enough to adhere to what they are meant to cover. A good test is their adhering to the back of a spoon. For sauces use enamelled saucepans, which are suitable for many small delicate dishes, and nearly as cheap as tinned ones. Avoid smoky fires in cooking sauces and vegetables. The receipts we have given in this important branch of the culinary art are ample, various, and circumstantial, and have been diligently considered. We do not, however, pre- tend, either in this Chapter or any other, to fix the precise quantities of ingredients; but we have tried to hit the medium as far as possible in a matter where men difier so widely and intolerantly, that— " The very dish one relishes the best Is tasteless or abomination to the rest." The basis, or, more correctly, the vehicle of plain English sauces, is butter^ whether melted, oiled, browned, or burnt; or gravy^ either clear, brown, or thickened; also water, milk, cream, and wine, or some substitute. A numerous class of sauces is composed of vegetables and green fruits, another of shell-fish, and a third of flavoured meat-gravy. There are still other complicated sauces, compounded of an admixture of many or all of these ingredients. It will simplify arrangement to take these in regular order; though the philosophers of the English kitchen shake themselves tolerably free of the trammels of system. For excellent foundation and other French sauces, see our French Cookery^ and read Nos. 59 to 63. 247. To Melt Butter Plain, or for Sauces. Break fresh butter in little bits, and put it into a small saucepan (kept for this and other delicate uses), with either hot cream, sweet milk, or water, or a mixture of them, in the proportion of a, dessertspoonful to the ounce of butter. Dredge a very little flour over this, and, holding the vessel over the fire, toss it quickly round, or stir quickly with a spoon, till the butter melts into the consistence of a very thick cream. Let it boil up and no more. This is the