LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 525 tions of spirits are three parts rum to one of brandy; water to taste. To this put a cup of strong green tea, a little champagne, and syrup if needed. 1069''^. Mint-Julep.—Put a few leaflets of fresh mint into one of the deep tumblers used in the United States for cordial drams, and over these and a spoonful of sugar, pour what wine, brandy, or rum you wish: Have another deep tumbler, half-full of pounded ice; pour the spirit or wine over the ice, and briskly pour the whole backwards and forwards until sufficiently mixed: next, if in very hot weather, place the tumbler in a larger glass with ice,— which will act as a freezing apparatus,—and, when frost- work spreads over the glass, drink. For several receipts for these American beverages, which owe half their value to the extreme heat or the cold of the climate, Britain has been indebted to Captain Marryat and an anonymous writer in Taifs Magazine, The principle is the same in the com- position of ail of them, whether Sherry Cobbler^ Gin Slings, or by whatever name familiar; so we shall give but one more variety, from Tait " By my halidom,'' says the Rambler in North America, " a Sherry Cobbler is nectar fit for the gods; and the most eloquent description will prove inadequate to convey a just idea of a compound so truly delicious. Some pounded sugar, about two table- spoonfuls, is put into a large tumbler, a liberal supply of ice, pure as crystal, two wine-glasses of fine sherry; lemon- peel, cut very thin, a large slice of pine-apple at the top, and the whole violently shaken up, or poured several times from one tumbler to another, and allowed a minute or so to clear: a long reed is then stuck in the glass, and so you imbibe it." 1070. Bishop, Hot or Iced.—The day before this beverage is wanted, grill on a wire-grill, over a clear, slow fire, three smooth-skinned large Seville oranges. Grill them of a pale brown. [They may also be done in an oven, or under a furnace.] Place them in a small punch-bowl that will about hold them, and pour over them a full half-pint from a bottle of old Bordeaux wine, in which a pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar is dissolved. Cover with a plate. When it is to be served next day (though it may soak for two or three days), cut and squeeze the oranges into a small sieve placed