BASIS OF FISH-SOUPS LOBSTER-SOUP. 155 skull, haddocks, whitings, eels, gudgeons, flounders, and other white fish are used, and also the heads, fins, and trimmings of the fish which are to be dressed. As fish- stock soon becomes sour, it should not be made sooner than needful. Boil the cut fish of which you make the stock in two quarts of water, with a couple of onions, a piece of lemon-peel, and a fagot of sweet herbs. Skim the liquor carefully, and strain it. If the fish-soup is to be brown, the fish which makes the stock may be browned in the fry- ing-pan before boiling, and catsup and brown roux is gener- ally put to brown fish-soup. — See Court Bouillon, French Cookery, 101. Lobster-Soup. Have three middle-sized, or five small fresh lobsters— hen-lobsters, if possible—ready boiled, and five pints of good veal-gravy, though beef, mutton, or cow-heel stock will answer very well. Break off and bruise on a mortar, the small claws and fins, with an anchovy, a piece of lemon- peel, and a couple of onions. Put these to the stock and simmer till you have obtained all the strength and flavour they contain. Strain off the stock. Split the tails, crack without mangling the great claws, and carefally take out the meat, cutting it into neat small pieces, and lay it aside. Pick the meat from the chine, and take part of the coral, the soft part of a few oysters, an anchovy, the quarter of a nutmeg, a blade of mace, a little cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon- peel grated. Beat these in a mortar; and with the yolks of two eggs and a very little flour, make of this two dozen small forcemeat-balls for the soup. Next bruise the spawn in the mortar, with a little flour, and rubbing it through a sieve, put it and the balls, with the cut meat of the claws and tails, and the coral left from the forcemeat, into the soup. Or fry the forcemeat-balls first, if you like, or brown them in a Dutch oven, and slip them into the soup, vfhich may then simmer for a quarter of an hour, but must not boil. Test the balls (see testing of forcemeat Godiveau, French Cookery); or they may be omitted, and the meat of which they are made cut in nice bits, and put to the soup. Foreign substances are sometimes employed to heighten the vermilion tint of this soup; but we do not recommend the practice. Squeeze the juice of a lemon through a strainer into the