CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 872 let these just heat in Bechamel-sauce^ or serve them as llan- quetteSy i, e., as a mince.—See No. 636. French Dishes of Hare, Poultry, and Game. 660. Gateau de Lievre, i.e., Hare-CaJce for the Second Course.—Prepare the hare as directed at No. 35, and save the liver and the blood. Scrape the meat from the skin and sinews, and mince with it the liver, a piece of a calf's liver, and a good piece of the best part of an undressed ham. Pound the whole to a paste with a little cold stock, or with any hare or game-soup. Add equal to a third part of the whole bulk of rasped lard. Again pound the whole well together, with salt, pepper, young onions, and parsley, pre- viously blanched;—give a seasoning also of one spoonful of brandy, and No. 334. Mix with the pounded meat six or eight eggs, one by one, and, if foreign cookery is admired, the expressed juice of a clove of garlic. When the whole is exceedingly well pounded and mixed, line a stewpan with slices of lard, and put the forcemeat over it to the thickness of an inch and a half, and quite level and smooth. Then put in another layer of lard, pistachios, and truffles, all cut in strips and neatly laid down like mosaic; then again the forcemeat an inch and a half thick. Cover with slices of bacon, and then with paper. Close the pan, and bake the cake slowly for two hours, or for three, if you have a cake of three layers of forcemeat. Let it cool; dip the mould or pan in hot water to loosen the cake, and turn it out. Serve on a napkin. Garnish to your fancy. It makes a handsome dormant dish.—Obs. Hare is also dressed in France as cote- letteSj boudinSj etc, 661. Babbits a la Venetienne^ i.e., with fine Herbs.—Carve two white young fat rabbits neatly, and brown the pieces in butter with some rasped bacon and a handful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and eschalot, with pepper, salt, and allspice. Rub a teaspoonful of flour into a little consomme^ and pour this into the stewpan with the rabbits. Stew slowly till they are cooked; skim and strain the sauce, and serve it hot about the meat, with a seasoning of cayenne and a good squeeze of lemon.—Nos. 503, 506. 662. Dindon en daube.—Truss the turkey as for boiling.