143 MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. browned in the frying-pan, with a lialf dozen sprigs of fresh mild sage, also chopped and fried. Thicken the soup with butter kneaded in browned flour, or with browned roux; and season highly with white and Jamaica pepper, a little cayenne, two blades of mace, an eschalot, four leaves of fresh basil, and the thin parings of one large or two small lemons. When the soup is strong and well coloured, strain it gently through a sieve into a fresh stew-pan; put the hash of the head to it, and heat. Add Madeira when it is nearly finished, in the proportion of a half-glassful to the quart.* When to be dished, slip in two dozen of small forcemeat balls, made of veal or veal-kidney, minced parsley, crumbs, egg, and the seasonings directed for Quenelles (See French Cookery)^ well fried, and drained; also a dozen yolks of hard-boiled eggs made into egg-balls, No. 86, and the juice of two lemons squeezed through a strainer. Ohs. A small piece of bacon used to be put into the stock-pot; and a fagot of sweet herbs and mushrooms are still occasionally added to this soup. The imitation of the real Turtle-soup was formerly thought nearer, when the soup abounded in bits of the fat double tripe, gristly bits of veal, or veal sweetbread parboiled, or the belly-piece of pickled pork cut in mouthfuls, the soft part of oysters, pickled tongue parboiled and cut down, the meat of lobsters, etc. These cloying substances are now very generally discarded. Simplicity is the taste of the day, though much is left to the discretion of the cook in making Mock-Turtle, and all soups of the Com- posite Order. The quantity made by the above directions is fully more than will be wanted for an ordinary dinner, as it will fill two tureens; but part of the stock may be laid aside for gravy or sauces ; and if there is too much hash^ some of it may be highly seasoned and dressed as a ragout or jpie. Mock-Turtle may be greened^ if that is wished, by stewing a large handful of chopped spinage or green herbs in butter, and putting some of the soup to them; then rubbing this green liquor through a sieve and putting it to green the soup. We do not recommend it. 84. A Cheaper and very Excellent Mock-Turtle Soup. This is made of calf s feet or cow-heels, gently stewed, the broth strained, and the best of the meat cut down as above, and put to it, with a seasoning of white pepper, allspice, onion, cayenne, a little mushroom or walnut cut sup, a squeeze of lemon, and a glass of Madeira. Or the wine and expensive seasonings may be withheld, and the soup be very good without them. * Madeira or Sherry is the wine commonly employed; but Burgundy or Claret may be used, where more depth of colour is wanted.