495 PRESERVING BOTTLED FRUITS. 978. Apple-Marmalade.—Pare and core tlie apples. Set them in a slow oven all night. Next day boil them, sweet- ened, and seasoned with lemon-peel, cinnamon, etc., accord- ing to taste.—See No. 974. 979. Black Butter^ a Nursery Preserve.—Pick currants, gooseberries, strawberries, or whatever fruit you have: to every two pounds of fruit put one of sugar, and boil till a good deal reduced. 980. To Preserve Damsons for Pies.—Have equal to the weight of the stoned fruit of pounded sugar. Boil any of the broken damsons in this; and then add the whole quan- tity, and boil till it jellies. They may be skinned or not. Pot the compote^ and keep in a dry place.—See No. 989. 981. Four-Fruits Jam^ excelle?it.—Have three parts, in equal quantity, of picked black currants, stoned small black cherries, and red raspberries, and for every pint have a half- pint of red-currant juice. Boil as other jams, using equal weight of sugar and weighed juice. 982. Cheap Method of preserving Fruit for Puddings.— Pare apples, pears, plums; or pick whatever sort of small fruit you have, and place it in a stone jar, with as much good moist sugar as will sweeten it. Bake in a slow oven till done. This will eat with rice or with bread, make small pasties and roly-polies, i. e> rolled puddings. 983. General Receipts for preserviyig bottled Fruits.—Gather small or stone-fruit when quite dry and rather under-ripe. Lay aside all that is over-ripe or bruised. Drop the fruit, whatever kind, as currants, raspberries, plums, Morella- cherries, etc., etc., into the wide-mouthed bottles used for this purpose. Make it compact: cork up, having given each quart bottle two ounces of pounded sugar. Place them in a copper of cold water up to the neck, and with thin whisps of hay under and around to prevent collision. Light the fire, previously laid under the copper, and in from fifteen to twenty-five minutes the juices wilf have flowed out and covered the fruit. Slacken the fire instantly ; the object being to preserve the fruit as fresh as possible, not to extract its juices. Make the corks firm; dip them in bottle-rosin, and turn the bottles head downmost in sand in a cool, dry place. 983^. Thinnings of Apricots^ Greengages^ or Plums.—When