235 EOUX, WHITE AND BROWN. Assistant," is certainly superior to our insular^ ofF-hand, kneaded flour, which often communicates a musty flavour, at any rate an unpleasant doughy taste of flour, to the sauce thickened. 254. Brown Roux.—Melt what quantity of butter you need very slowly. Stir into this browned flour^ till of a proper consistence. Less cooking will make the roux if the flour is browned previously, and tend to prevent the empyreumatic flavour, which, by the common methods, and even by the French method, is nearly inseparable from browning made of butter.* Pour the roux into an earthen dish, and keep it for use. This thickening will keep a good while; but we conceive the method of having the flour ready browned better, as it will keep for ever. 255. Brown ThicTcening for Sauces^ Ragouts^ etc., another way,—To make thickening properly is one of the most delicate offices of the cook, and a sort of test of skill. We shall explain the mystery minutely, with due regard to its importance. Throw slices of clarified or good fresh butter into a shal- low small frying-pan • toss it about briskly till it become of a fine amber colour, skim ofl" the frothy bubbles that float on the surface, and from a dredging-box shake in slightly- browned flour, stirring the composition with a wooden spoon briskly and incessantly till it become perfectly smooth, and of the consistence of a thick batter. It must be stirred for at least fifteen minutes. Thickening is best when recently made; but it will keep for ten days or more if poured into small jars, and the surface is not broken. Put to it a little of the sauce you wish to thicken, and mix gradually, as in making mustard, till they are thoroughly incorporated. A dessertspoonful will thicken a sauce-tureen of gravy. In spite of the most vigilant attention, particles of fatty and other matters will sometimes, to the great mortification of the cook, be seen floating in sauce. To remove this, throw * We find no account of this simple and useful preparation in the many volumes on cookery which we have perused, though it highly merits the attention of the cook. Where hrowning or brown thickening is required for any dish, browned flour may be employed with much advantage. It is easily prepared by laying a quantity of flour on a plate, and placing it in an oven, or before the fire, till it takes the shade desired; for it may be of any tint, from that of cinnamon to the deepness of coffee-powder. Turn it occasionally, that it may colour equally, and keep it dry for use.