510 CHAP. V. PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. above, of any size you please, and strew caraway-com fits over. For Shrewsbury Cakes.—Beat half a pound of cold butter to a cream, and mix with it six ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of flour, a few caraway-seeds, and some pounded cinnamon, two eggs beat, and a little rose-water. Roll out the paste a quarter of an inch in thickness, adding a little more flour if necessary, and stamp out the cakes of any circular size that is liked. 1025. Bath Cakes and Buns,—Rub half a pound of but- ter into a pound of flour, and add four beat eggs and a small glassful of yeast. Set this before the fire to rise; then add four ounces of sifted sugar, and a few caraway-seeds. Roll the paste into thin sheets, and stamp them out. Bake them on tins. They should rise very light.—Ohs. This is made into Bath-Buns by moulding the paste in the shape of buns, and strewing a few sugar-caraways over the tops. These Bath-buns are almost the same preparation as the Brioche cakes, so much eaten and talked of in Paris. 1026. Scotch Petticoat-Tails.—Mix a half-ounce (or fewer, or none) of caraway-seeds with a pound and three quarters of flour. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and poar into it twelve ounces of butter melted in a quarter-pint of milk, and three ounces of beat sugar. Knead this, but not too much, or it will not be short; divide it in two, and roll it out round, rather thin. Cut out the cake by running a paste-cutter round a dinner-plate, or any large round disli inverted on the paste. Cut a cake from the centre of this one with a small saucer or large tumbler. Keep this inner circle whole, and cut the outer one into eight petticoat-tails. Bake on paper laid on tins, serve the round cake in the middle of the plate, and the petticoat-tails as radii round it. An English traveller in Scotland, and one well acquainted with France, states in his very pleasant book that our Club have fallen into a mistake in the name of these cakes, and that petticoat-tails is a corruption of the French Petites Gatelles, It may be so: in Scottish culinary terms there are many corruptions, though we rather think the name Petticoat-tails has its origin in the shape of the cakes, which is exactly that of the bell-hoop petticoats of our ancient Court ladies. 1027. Flour Scones and Slim Cakes are often used in