126 CHAP. .VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. pound each ; and it improves the colour, if the meat, onions, and carrots be browned with a bit of butter at the bottom of the soup-pot, or digester, before the water is added to it.* The only objection is, that by these means the removal of the scum is not so complete as is necessary to the rock- crystal transparency of clear soups. Scotch Broth made of fat meat may have a larger proportion of greens, leeks, cab- bage, or whatever green vegetable is used, than lean meat. The best plain browning for high-flavoured soups, sauces, gravies, etc., is red wine, soy, or mushroom or walnut cat- sup. Where these are not admissible, use crusts of bread well browned, brown flour or browned oatmeal where thick- ening is required, with the meat browned, in the pot before putting in the water, and the onions fried a fine deep brown. But a more elegant becaiise paler tint is simply got by the carrots, the black peppercorns, and the skins of the onions, which should be topped, tailed, and washed, but not peeled before being put to the soup. (See Broivning for Soups and Made - Dishes.) — To improve the colour, .many cooks sacrifice the flavour of their soups. Burnt meat or bones, and even burnt sugar or treacle, are condemned by us. The cook is entreated to bear in mind, that the beauty of all clear gravy brown soups consists in transparency^ united with richness and flavour,—to obtain which skim carefully and simmer slowly ; and of white soups, and fish and vege- table soups, in the goodness of the desired colour, and in fulness or velvetiness on the palate. Soup may be made in an infinity of ways. There is no end to the combinations of meat, game, fish, herbs, roots, spices, and mucilage, with water; but the basis of the best soup, whether expense is either an object or no object, is, as we have said, beef,—fresh, full of juices, mature, suc- culent, but not too fat,—the lean parts of an equally fat- tened animal. For this Primary soup we give the following tried and approved receipt:— * To this previous slight drawing out of the juices without much or any water, we are inclined to attribute not a little of the superiority of French soups and stews. Some French cooks, to regulate the flavour of soups more exactly, boil the roots, herbs, and vegetables separately to a mash, and then squeeze them and add the juice, till the desired flavour is obtained.