387 YEGETABLES, FKUIT, ETC. of tliyme, a handful of parsley and young onions. Stew till the onion looks pulpy. Strain and keep for cooking in. To Poele Chickens, etc,—The above is expensive cookery. Fowls must be trussed as for roasting, and laid on a layer of fat bacon in the stewpan, and have the liquid poele poured over them. They should have butter, salt, and a little lemon-juice put into the inside.—See Braising, note to No. 478. French Dishes of Vegetables, Fruit, etc. See also from No. 188 to 241. French cooks claim superiority for their skill and variety in dressing vegetables; and the assumption is in this in- stance just. Vegetable preparations enter largely into both their courses, usually affording two entrees, or substitutes for entrees, for an ordinary dinner, and four for a larger one. Great improvements have been made of late, even among ourselves, in preparing the more delicate and showy vege- table dishes ; and it is to be hoped that British cooks, besides imitating the French in saucing their cauliflowers and arti- chokes, will soon copy their manner of braising cabbages and carrots for homely, everyday use. 698. Asparagus-Pease for the second Course, Entremets,'^' —Pick and cut some young asparagus into small equal bits, rejecting what is woody. Boil these pease in salt and water, and drain and dry them in a cloth. Then give them a fry in butter, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, and a sprig of mint. Dredge flour over them. Put in a bit of sugar, and moisten with boiling water. Give them a quick boil. When boiled down, take out the fagot of parsley and onions, and gradually thicken the sauce with the beat yolks of two eggs, beaten up with cream or melted butter, and a little salt and grated nutmeg. 698^. Macedoine de Legumes, or of roots.—Clean four deep- red smooth large carrots : scoop off the zest or red part the size of peas: simmer this for fifteen minutes. Scoop out, * Far from us be the presumption of attempting to teach the English cook what French artistes call entrees and what entremets. We would as soon attempt to teach her the gender of all the nouns in their language. We do not know ourselves: nobody does. On this point the great Ude would sometimes differ from the greater Careme.