CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 388 same size, six turnips, and pare twenty very small button- onions. Fry them in two ounces of butter with a teaspoon- ful of sugar for five or six minutes, when add the carrots. Fry the whole till covered with glaze, and add nearly a half- pint of Bechamel. Let the Macedoine reduce till rather thick. Season with white pepper and salt, and before serv- ing add three spoonfuls of a liaison of yolk of eggs and cream. 699. To Dress GreeM Pease [the Petits Pois),—Boil a large pint of the finest green pease, with salt and a good piece of butter rubbed among them. When tender, drain them, lift- ing them out of the colander, but leaving the refuse. Stew them with a fagot of parsley and green onions. Tlie colour will now deepen. Dredge a good deal of flour over them, and stir a piece of butter among them, with salt, a very little grated Parmesan (if you like), and a knob of sugar first dipped in boiling water. Let them get quite dry, and dress them high on the dish. Pease-sauce or puree of Pease.— Stew a pint or quart of very young pease till tender, with chopped lettuce, parsley, and young onions. Rub the puree through a tammy-cloth, and add good gravy. It is served with various meats. Obs. Consomme added to any left Petit Pois will make an excellent extempore potage suiting the quantities. 700. Sea-kale for the Second Course.—We do not know that this vegetable is naturalized in France even yet; but after boiling it in plenty of water, with salt, French cooks in this country drain it, and serve with sauce blanche or veloute. Sauce blanche, i.e. butter melted in cream, is per- haps the most appropriate sauce for all vegetables, but for the danger of its running to oil, which makes veloute pre- ferable in nice cookery.—-See No. 190. 701. Artichoke-bottoms en Canapes.—Have the boiled artichokes nicely trimmed, and the chokes removed. When cold, fill the bottoms with anchovy-butter, and decorate with pickled capers, gherkins, and beetroot carved, con- trasting the colours.—See No. 191. 702. Artichokes a Vltalienne.—Trim and quarter the arti- chokes, and boil them in salt and water. Take out the chokes. Drain and arrange the quarters with the leaves