517 YEAST. of open bars that lets the moisture escape. Girdle Cakes, —The meal used for oat-cakes is usually ground finer than that for porridge. Make the cakes, one by one, with hot water and salt enough. Roll out from five to seven inches in dameter, keeping round. Bake on one side on the girdle, and the other toast before the fire. Keep dry meal below and above the cake on the baking-board to prevent sticking. Butter, or even dripping is used by good housewives for these cakes ; and milk or sweet whey instead of water. Soda also begins to be employed. They keep long, but if above a week, should be re-toasted when wanted, like most other cakes. They look best rolled very thin, but do not eat better, as more water must be used to make the dough hold together. They take no injury by lying over for some hours before being baked. 1048. Yeast—There are many ways of preparing bread- yeast, but no yeast is better than that made of brewer's fresh worts—now made expressly for the use of bakers in most towns. Yeast is, however, made of the flour of pease, rye, potatoes, and wheat, mixed with sugar and water, and afterwards fermented with fresh yeast. Bad yeast may be improved by mixing in it flour and sugar, with a little warm 'water, or by bleaching it; that is, beating up the yeast with water equal in quantity to itself, and the white of an egg to each quart of yeast. In twelve hours pour off the thin. What remains will be an improved yeast. Strain all yeast put to flour, if necessary. If the yeast is bitter, use less of it, but allow the dough double time to rise. 1049. ttussian Yeast, the best Substitute that we know,— Make a thick wort of ground rye or malt, and for a gallon of this take three ounces or more of leaven, and dissolve it in a little of the wort. Mix the whole, and add a half-pound of ground malt; shake the mixture for some time, and in half an hour add two large spoonfuls of good yeast: cover for forty-eight hours, and the whole will be good yeast. Where families bake regularly, a little leaven is kept over from one baking to another, to ferment the fresh yeast. 1051. Camp-Yeast—Make a thin gruel of a gallon of spring water, with flour of rye, wheat, or pease ; boil it, stir- ring it well for twenty minutes. Add to this a half-pound