576 CHAP. III.—CURING MEAT, HAMS, ETC. ounces of salt, five of bay-salt, one of ground black pepper, one of Jamaica pepper. Mix the articles, and rub the hams well. Turn and rub every day for a month. Hang the hams when dry in a canvass bag in a dry place; first smoke them if convenient. 1186. Mutton Hams,—Proceed as at No. 1182, using for one ham a fourth of the salt, but a half of the spices and sugar. Rub the ham very well with the hot pounded salt. —Ohs, Ram-mutton, though disliked at table, is, when good, thought to make the best-flavoured hams. In the High- lands, dried juniper-berries are used in curing mutton-hams. No sort of meat is more improved by smoking with aromatic wpods, or even peat-reek^ than mutton. Mutton-hams, when they are once dried, will keep long enough, but scarcely im- prove after six months' keeping. N.B,—Roast instead of boiling mutton-ham, if not kept more than six months. Soak as if for boiling. The Scottish Border is famous for the excellence of the mutton-hams. They are carefully salted with salt, a little coarse sugar, and very little saltpetre; kept in the pickle for three weeks, and hung for months in shep- herds' chimneys, where peats and wood are the only fuel. Without previous steeping, they are boiled quickly for an hour, or a little more, if large, and allowed to soak in the pot-liquor for twenty-four hours. 1187. Tongues^ to Salt.—Cut off the roots, and steep the tongues in a weak brine; wash them well out, working them with the hand; afterwards salt them with common salt. [The roots eat very well with greens, or will make pease- soup, stew, or Scotch kail.] Scrape and dry the tongues; rub them with a little common salt and saltpetre; next day rub them very well with salt and brown sugar. Keep them covered with pickle for a fortnight; dry and smoke them.— Obs. When many tongues are salted, use a sinking-board and weights, to keep them below the brine. They may be spiced as No. 1182, and reddened with a double quantity of saltpetre. 1188. To Salt a Round or Rump of Beef.—A rump of twenty-five pounds will take from one to two ounces of salt- petre, as redness is wished for, eight of sugar, four of pepper, half-a-pound of bay-salt, and twice as much common salt. Rub the meat very well with the mixed salts and spices; turn it on all sides, and rub it. Baste and rub with the