ST ronan's culinary club. 25 found. It is for this reason I fix my scene of experiment at the Cleikum, and choose my notable hostess as high priestess of the mysteries. But here comes Mr Winterblossom— No word of Jekyl ? Never mind.—Serve dinner there. I allow five minutes for difference of time-pjeces, and wait a half-minute more for my tardy guest—no man shall call me uncivil—and then proceed to the main business of the day, —eh, Doctor?—were King George expected.'' " Sir," said the Doctor, earnestly, I venerate your opin- ions and your practice in this matter. Sir, our great English moralist, Dr Johnson, though a fellow of no college, yet no mean authority, says,—' The man that does not mind his stomach is a fool: the belly is every man's master.'—Sir, I have known young gentlemen, otherwise of unexceptionable morals, disgrace themselves, sir, I say disgrace them- selves, and lose the friendship of those who were inclined to serve them and to promote their views in life, by this infa- mous practice of delaying dinner; a practice which the ele- gant and classic Addison truly calls a species of perjury. Sir, he brands it as ^ the detestable habit of keeping your friends waiting dinner.'—' If such persons did think at all,' says he, * they would reflect on their guilt in lengthening the suspension of agreeable life,—that is, in lengthening the hanging-on, miserable half-hour before dinner." This dinner was served punctual to the second; for Meg and the Nabob, though they did not quite agree in harmony, always agreed in time :—a true gourmand dinner;—no sumptuous feast of twenty dishes in the dead-thraw^ but a few well-chosen and well-suited,—each relieving each,— the boils done to a popple^ the roast to a turn^—the stews to the nick of time. First came the soup—the hare-soup ; Meg called it rabbit-soup," as this was close-time. " Sir, if you please," replied the Doctor, bowing to the tureen, and sipping his heated Madeira, as he answered the inquiry of the Nabob, if he would take soup,—"as our great moralist, Dr Johnson, said of your Scotch barley- B