48 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. along the back-bone. This last, however, is neither the most economical nor sightly method. If the meat is to be presented cold, this deep trench—this " forty mortal gashes on its side"—looks ill, while it drains the joint of its juices. Edge-hone^ or Aitch-bone of Beef.—In this, and all pieces of boiled meat, the ontside slice, which becomes dry and hard in the salting and boiling, is to be laid aside or sent away. This done, cut handsome smooth slices of the lean, and with each give a very little of the marrowy and firm fat, for which this joint is prized. Bound of Beef is carved as the above, with a large carver for the purpose. Begin at the fattest end. Many carve this joint slantways; but more commonly it is cut horizon- tally, preserving a smooth, finely-grained surface. A Brisket of Beef is cut down to the bone the cross way in rather thin slices, as the piece is fatty and gristly; and all fat meat must be cut delicately thin. Breast of Veal or Lamb.—Divide the gristly part from the ribs, as directed in carving a fore-quarter of lamb,—then divide both the cross way. The choice is — '^Gristles or ribs?" Cut the meat clean off ribs of veal, as the gristly bones only encumber the eater's plate, and ought to be cut out, and dressed d la Franqaise as Tendrons de Veau ; help a morsel of the sweetbread. Fillet of Veal.—This is usually, and always ought to be, stuffed. Cut it in delicate horizontal slices; and help either the browned outside or the inside, as is chosen, with a little of the fat, a thin slice of the stuffing, and gravy, etc. Gigot.—This delicate joint is familiar where veal is small. It is either cut in horizontal slices, or as a leg of mutton, but beginning nearer the broad end. Shoulder and loin of veal are cut as mutton. The kidney-fat of the loin is prized, and sometimes sliced at table and kept hot over a lamp, ready to help. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut thin slices along the back-bone, dividing them if too long, and helping fat and lean together. Many persons think that, besides being a more economical way of carving, all meat is more delicately grained, and eats better, if a deep incision be made along the chine-bone, and slices taken crossways from thence. M. Ude does so.