530 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. etc., are all employed in compound shrubs.—Brandy-Shrith is made in the same manner. It is best to buy tliese com- pound liquors rectified and distilled ; or as made in the West Indies, where fresh rich fruits abound. 1087. Currant'Shrub^—White or Bed,—is made by put- ting the juice of the fruit to rum or brandy, in the propor- tion of a pint of juice, or less, to a quart of spirits, and adding syrup to taste. It must then be strained. 1088. Widow Barnohy's Brandy-Cherries.—Fill wide- necked bottles with small black cherries or geans, till rather more than half-full. Fill up with brandy; cork the bottles. The cherries will be ready in a month, and keep for a year; and the brandy for ever. Where spirits are ordered for rich pudding-sauces, no plain spirit is superior to the above in- fusion, which is made a liqueur by adding apricot-kernels bruised, cloves, cinnamon, and Seville - orange peel, as in Nos. 1053, 1054. 1089. Lemonade, and Milk-Lemonade,—This agreeable beverage used formerly to be fermented,—now the process is more simple. Take any number of lemons, suitable to the quantity of lemonade wanted; pare them as thin as possible; then rub the surface with knobs of refined sugar, to extract all the yellow or zest; put the saturated sugar and half the parings into a basin, and squeeze the lemons over it. Add refined sugar to taste. Hot water, and a little boiling milk (if approved), must be added, in the proportions wished for; three or four quarts to two dozen lemons is a fair quantity, using the whole juice, but only half the rinds. Skim the liquor when well mixed, and run it through a jelly-bag. Bottle it. For Milk-Lemonade, sweeten, and acidulate to your taste with fresh lemon-juice equal quantities of milk and water; add what white wine is approved; mix, and strain through a jelly-bag.—Ohs. Orangeade is made as above.—See No. 1084. 1090. Portable Lemonade,—useful on Voyages or in the Country.—Take of tartaric acid one half-ounce, refined sugar three ounces, essence of lemon half a drachm. Pound the tartaric acid and sugar very well in a marble mortar, and gradually pour the essence upon the mixture. Mix the whole very well, and paper it up for use in twelve separate parcels; each of which, when mixed with a tumbler of water, will