523 LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, ETC. tlie juice of ripe morellas, raspberries, strawberries, and currants. Strain the fruits separately. Put their strained juices together. Sweeten to taste with syrup. Strain again, and to every pint allow a quarter-pint of genuine brandy; and flavour with bruised cherry or apricot kernels, and mace. 1065. Raspberry-Brayidy is made precisely as above, and, if strong of the fruit, is best without any flavouring ingredients, but may have a little syrup. 1065^. Loudon^s* Admirable.—Skin two dozen ripe peaches. Quarter them and take out the" stones. Add to this the pulp of two dozen ripe greengages, and of one dozen ripe magnums. For every four pounds of pulp add six of sugar and two quarts of water. Boil slowly for a half-hour or more. Skim, strain, and, when cool, add three quarts of brandy or flavourless whisky. 1066. Usquebagh^ the Irish Cordial.—To two quarts of the best brandy, or whisky without a smoky or any peculiar flavour, put a pound of stoned raisins, a half-ounce of nut- megs, a quarter-ounce of cloves, the same quantity of car- damoms, all bruised in a mortar; the rind of a Seville orange, rubbed off on lumps of sugar, a little tincture of saffron, and a half-pound of brown candy-sugar. Shake the infusion every day for a fortnight, and filter it for use.—Obs. Not a drop of water must be put to Irish Cordial. It is sometimes tinged of a pale green with the juice of spinage, instead of the saffron tint from which it takes the Irish name (as we conjecture) of usque-bece^ i. e.. Yellow Water, 1067. VEau de la Vie.\—This liqueur is exceedingly * Loudon, the well-known horticulturist and landscape gardener. f UEau de la Vie.—The following rhyming receipt for compounding this seductive liqueur is communicated by a lady, who has contributed to this volume many useful and some rare receipts :— *' Grown old and grown stupid, you just think me fit To transcribe from my grandmother's book a receipt; And comfort it is for a wight in distress To be still of some use—he could scarce be of less. Were greater his talents, fair Ann might command His head,—if more worth than his heart or his hand. Your mandates obeying, he sends with much glee The genuine receipt to make VEau de la Vie:— Take seven large lemons, and pare them as thin As a wafer, or, what is much thinner, your skin ; Six ounces of sugar next take, and bear mind. That the sugar be of the best double-refined.