406 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. 741. Pig^s Cheeky hy a Scottish Lady's Receipt^ equal to Le Moine Blanc.—Split a large fat head, take out the brains, cut off the ears. Lay the head in water and salt for one night, and boil slowly till the bones will come out. Carefully take off the skin. Mince the meat while still hot. Season with pepper and allspice (nutmeg and mace if you please). Press the mince in a pudding-pan, or small cheese-press, Tcry firmly. Put a weight over it. It will get firm, and slice like Bologna sausage. It may be kept in a cold pickle made of its liquor, with vinegar and salt boiled in it. Serve with vinegar and mustard.—See Nos. 20, 656, 658. 742. Glasgow and Birmingham Hot Tripe.—When fat tripe is well cleaned and blanched as directed at No. 16, cut it into pieces; roll these up neatly, fasten with a thread. Then take a sawed marrow-bone, or knuckle, or trimmings of veal, place all in a jar or tin vessel, like a pudding-mould, or steamer with a close-fitting lid, adding pepper and salt. Place the closed jar in a pot of boiling water, which fill up as it boils away. This will take eight hours at least. Or the jar may be placed in a slack oven, if more convenient, and boil away. Keep the tripe in its own jelly in the jar, and dress it as wanted, as directed in Nos. 16, 56, 626, 743, 765. It will keep for a week or more. Birmingham, and some other English towns, are as famous for tripe as Glas- gow is, and as, in the olden time., Edinburgh was. The tripe, if not dressed for private consumption, is sold hot; the dealers giving a piece of each sort, and a quantity of the liquor, which, with salt and mustard, and stewed or roasted onions, forms the sole sauce. 743. To Fry Tripe^ Scottish fashion.—^This dish is eco- nomical, palatable, and agreeable to the eye. The pieces of tripe left after an ordinary stew are quite fit for the present purpose; or if you are to use tripe just taken from its own jelly, it must be wiped and stewed in milk and water, with a small piece of butter and salt. Simmer it slowly till very tender. This should be done in time to let it be thoroughly cold, before the finishing ingredients are added. For these make a batter with three eggs well beaten, allowing a spoon- ful of flour to each egg, and as much milk as will make a thick batter. Season with ginger, onions, or chives, and