CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 136 paste is here ready prepared in stars, rings, Maltese crosses, etc., etc., it needs no cutting, and looks very pretty. Semoulina-Soup,—Semoulina is an excellent preparation of the finest wheat. Make the soup as Vermicelli above ; but more of the Semoulina may be used, and it must also be dropt carefully and by slow degrees, not to get into lumps; to prevent which, stir diligently till it is ready, which will be in from twenty to thirty-five minutes. Semoulina makes an excellent pudding: Soujee smd.Manna-croup are very similar to Semoulina, but are chiefly used for the food of infants and invalids. All these soups form elegant potages, when made with clear, colourless gravy; or if thickened, and boiling cream gradually added, when about to be served. Sago and Tapioca. — Potages are sometimes made with these substances : wash, drain, and stew them in gravy- soup, or whatever sort of rich stock you choose ; good fresh broth in which beef, mutton, or veal has been boiled, answers very well. Sago must be simmered for an hour, and tapioca rather longer. Both first soaked for an hour. If a thick potage is wanted, give two ounces to every quart of soup ; if a fine soup, add wine and sugar to taste to the usual seasonings. Ohs, All of the above soups may be made in a higher style, with rich and very clear veal or fowl gravy-soup : or cheaply and plainly with any kind of fresh broth that would otherwise be lost. The French often serve Quenelles of chicken, etc., in them. Grated Parmesan should accompany all the paste-soups. Imitation of Italian Pastes and Nouille.—If not so fine as the original pastes, these have the advantage of being much cheaper, and are sure to be fresh. Make a paste with the yolks of half-a-dozen eggs, and the whites of two, and as much of the very finest dry flour as it will take to knead, and roll out smoothly. "Work it well, that it may be tena- cious ; roll out as thinly as possible ; cut into fillets about an inch and a half wide ; dust and rub these strips with flour: and laying them on paper, four or five above each other, cut into the thinnest straws or fibres; or it may be stamped out like the Cagliari paste with fine pastry-cut- ters. Separate the strips or shapes of paste, and dry them till pretty firm, when drop gently into boiling soup (like