436 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. edges neatly. Put in a little of any kind of jam or mar- malade, and either cross-bar the tarts with paste-straws, cut out with a notched paste-runner, or wreathe the paste-straws round them.—Ohs, This, or making little patties or pastry ramakins, is a very good way of using up any bit of paste that is left over from a large pie or tart. Small Puffs.—Give puff-paste seven and a half turns, leaving it nearly a half-inch thick. Cut it into pieces about five inches long, to have, when doubled, the form of squares, triangles, crescents, etc. Place a little jam of any kind on each, and double them up. Wet and pinch them close at the edges with a fluted paste-runner, trim and bake them on tins, with paper below.—See No. 818. 811. Cranherry-TarL—This may be made either of fresh or preserved cranberries. Season with beat cloves and cin- namon. Put in a sufficient quantity of sugar. Cover with a puff-paste, and serve with cream, which to this dry fruit is indispensable. 812. Plum, Prune, and Apricot Tarts.—Wash and scald the fruit; take out the stones, and either bruise them, and take some of the chopped kernels to add to the tarts, or not, as you choose. Put sugar to taste to the fruit, and bake it as a flan, tart, or pie. 813. To Ice Tarts, etc.—Beat the white of an egg very well, and with this brush the paste with a feather, either at first, or when half-haked, which prevents the icing from becoming scorched in the oven. \Vhen brushed well over with egg, sift fine sugar, beat to powder, over it. A heavier kind of varnish for some things is made of beat yolks of eggs and melted butter.—See, for other Icings, Cakes, Nos. 1005, 1006. 814. Common Glazings for Paste.—Sugar and water; yolk or white of egg beat up with water; white of egg and sugar sifted over; yolk of egg and melted butter. 815. Mince-meat and Mince-pies.—These are made in an endless variety of ways. We recommend every young housekeeper to adopt in this favourite preparation the re- ceipt of her own grandmother. This ought to produce the best mince-meat and Christmas-pies. Indeed, every family receipt-book teems with prescriptions. We select what is, after experiment and mature consideration, considered the