506 CHAP. V.—PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. and cloves, and, if liked, throw in a few caraway-seeds. Smooth the top of this (and every sort of cake) when put into the hoop, and throw sugared caraways over it or any cake ; or slips of candied peel. 1012. A common Seed-Cake.— Mix a half-pound of sifted sugar with two pounds of flour in a large bowl or pan. Make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a half-pint of lukewarm milk, and two spoonfuls of yeast. Draw a little of the surrounding flour into this, and, throwing a cloth over the vessel, set it in a warm place for an hour or two. Then add half a pound of melted butter, an ounce of cara- way-seeds, a little allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, and milk sufficient to make the whole of a proper stiffness. Mix it thoroughly. Butter and paper a hoop, and pour in the mixture. Let it stand a half-hour at the mouth of the oven to rise, and then bake it. 1013. Rice-Cake for tlie Centre of a Table,—the French Gateau de Biz.—Prepare the rice as for a casserole (No. 577), and for four ounces of rice take a quart of boiled cream, in which the peel of a lemon has been infused. Let them soak till the rice has absorbed all the cream, and is swelled. Sweeten this with fine sugar, and season with juice and peel of lemon. When cool, add the beat yolks of eight eggs, the whites well whisked by themselves, and also a good piece of butter. Next pour four ounces of melted butter into the mould, and turn it round and round till the butter adheres in a coat to all sides of it. Next cover the mould with fine bread-crumbs; and this done, pour in the cake. Bake it for an hour in a moderate oven, cool it, turn it upside down on the dish, and garnish it with flowers, etc. — Obs. If any of the material is left, roll it up in the shape of corks, dip them in butter, and fry as fritters. Dressed round fried parsley, they are called croquets of rice. A dozen sweet and a few bitter almonds chopped may be put to this cake; and it may be made of vermicelli, or served as a pudding, with custard-sauce. 1014. Scotch Diet-Cake, or Loaf—^Take a pound of fine sugar sifted, the same weight of eggs very well whisked, and mix and beat these together for twenty minutes. Season with lemon-grate and cinnamon. Stir in very smoothly three quarters of a pound of sifted flour. This is a very