FEUIT-TARTS. 435 808. Fruit-Tarts of Preserved Fruits.—These are made of all sorts of marmalades, jams, and preserved small fruits. If of apples, pare, core, and quarter them. Stew and mash them, and sweeten them with fine beat sugar. Season with the squeeze and grate of a lemon, a little beat cinnamon, an ounce of candied orange-peel, and a little white wine or cider. Cover a flat dish with paste, and place a broad rim of puff-paste round the edges, which decorate, as with leaves, roses, etc. Bake the paste, and put in the jam, either when the crust is ready, or a few minutes before. Pastry-stars, flowers, etc., may be stamped, and baked on tins to ornament the top ; or if the fruit is put in at first, it may be covered with pastry trellis-work.—Ohs. Tarts of preserved fruit, when much ornament is wanted, are served under a croquante of sugar boiled to caramel; but this is rather the business of the professed confectioner than of the practical cook, and cannot be taught without actual experi- ment.—See Flans, 809. Scottish Flans: Flan d la Caleb Balder stone.—Rub butter on a fluted tin flan mould, with a loose bottom, and line it with good pufl-paste which has been seven times rolled, and has stood to acquire some tenacity. With a pastry-knife Vandyke the edge, and carve each Vandyke as a rose-leaf, veined. Line this crust with paper, and fill it with bran to keep the shape out while baking. Bake in a sharp oven till crisp; take out the bran and paper, and fill with any sort of preserved fruit, as cherries, apples, apri- cots, or pears, prepared as for No. 708. Creamed flans are made by preparing thick frangipane into which six ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and finely chopped, are stirred.—Ohs. These delicate prepara- tions, we have no doubt, were perfectly well known when Scotland's " kings kept court in Holyrood." The art has lingered on, ever since, among old-fashioned pastry-cooks in Edinburgh; and we have seen the flan., most beautifully served, with the green Gasco7i gooseberry, preserved as only Mrs Fraser, a celebrated pastry-cook of the last gen- eration, could preserve and flavour this delicate small berry. 810. Tartlets and Fvffs of Fruit.—Line very small patty- pans, either oval or round, with pulF-paste, and pare the