CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 494 very narrow chips. Clarify tlie sugar, put the chips, pulp, and juice to it. Add, when nearly boiled for a half-hour, the juice and grate of two lemons for every dozen of oranges. Pot, and cover when cold. If the complexion is considered more important than the quality, use only the lemon-peel, as the lemon-juice is apt to granulate the sugar, and make the whole muddy.—Ohs. There are various ways of making this favourite marmalade.- The half of the boiled skins may be pounded before they are mixed; and if the chips look too numerous, part of them may be withheld for pudding-season- ing. The orange-grate, if a strong flavour is wanted, may either be added in substance, or infused, and the tincture strained and added to the marmalade when boiling. Where marmalade is made in large quantities to sell or for exporta- tion, the various articles are prepared and put at once into a thin syrup, boiled for from four to six hours, and potted in large jars. Orange-marmalade may be thinned with apple- jelly, or, when used at breakfast or tea, it may be liquefied extempore with a little tea. It keeps best in large quantities. 976. Scotch Marmalade^ the best, simplest, and most eco- nomical vjay.—Take equal weight of Seville oranges, and either crystallized or refined sugar. Wipe the oranges very clean. Rasp off the outer rind, putting the grate into a little water to prevent it sticking into a mass. Cut the fruit in quarters, picking out the seeds. Throw it into the brass pan with plenty of water, adding more as it wastes; so as to keep the oranges always well covered. Stir as necessary, and boil for three and a half or four hours. Then run the contents through a jelly-bag, and to each English pint of liquid take a pound of sugar. Throw in the grate, with a little lemon-juice (at pleasure). Give the whole a rapid boil of from twenty-five to thirty minutes. A little less or more sugar may be used, but the above is a fair average. 977. Transparent Orange-Marmalade.—Use the juice and pulp of the fruit only. Wash the pulp in a very little water, and strain this water to the juice. Take a pound and a half of refined sugar to the pint of juice, and boil it to the second degree. Put the juice to the syrup, and boil and skim well for twelve minutes.— Obs, Use the skins for can- died orange-peel. No. 1001. Lemon-marmalade may be made as above.