170 CHAP. VII.—FISH. 121. An excellent "Way to Dress a small Dish of Turbot or Brill. When the fish is cleaned, take off the skin gently (many like the skin), and cut the fillets off with a sharp knife. Dip the fillets in beat eggs, then in crumbs, minced parsley, and other seasonings. Dip thus twice. Place the fillets in a deep dish stuck round with butter, and bake them twenty minutes in a moderate oven, basting from time to time with the butter. Have ready lobster-sauce made of thin veal- broth, with cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. Let the lobster-meat stew in this for ten minutes before thickening it with roux. Dish the baked fillets in a hot dish, and pour the sauce hot over them. Garnish with slices of lemon and curled parsley. —Ohs, Where the party is not large, this is a very excellent way of dressing this expensive fish. It may also be stuffed and baked whole. Fillets of the tail will make a good dish, and allow plenty of an ordinary-sized fish for boiling on a future or a previous day. Many persons admire the above modes more than boiled turbot. 121.2 Soles in dilferent Ways. This fish is a general favourite in England, and when good, not inferior to turbot, if not, indeed, more delicate. It may be boiled plain as small turbot, putting it in warm water, made into a brine, as above directed, and simmered gently from six to ten minutes, according to size. Serve with the turbot sauces, and cucumber as for salmon.— Baked Soles: two fish, white side upmost, are, when thor- oughly cleaned, put into a wide baking-pan with two ounces of melted butter: stick two ounces more over the fish, having first brushed them with white of egg, and strewed a thick layer of fine crumbs and minced parsley over them: bake for a quarter of an hour; pour the gravy from them: if too rich, lay part of it aside, and put a glass of sherry and a squeeze of lemon-juice with cayenne and white pepper to the remainder, which boil up, skim, and pour gently under the nicely baked soles when dished. We consider the above modes better than filleting; but soles are also dressed in fillets. In some parts of England they are provincially stewed in cream, being first parboiled in water.