303 OF VEAL. onions, salt, and pepper, over the fry. Moisten it with good stock, and give it a toss for five minutes more ; but do not let it boil, or it will harden. Before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon. Calfs Liver may be dressed more richly by stewing it with bacon, herbs, spices, etc., and putting white wine to the thickened sauce.—See No. 635.—Brains^ see Nos. 630, 631. 453. Veal-Kidney may be minced and fried as sausage, or rolled up in oval balls, mixing the fat and lean together, with a little bacon, onion, pepper, cayenne, salt, etc. Dressed thus, it forms a relishing accompaniment to plain stews of veal; but it is a violation of the principles of good cookery to separate the kidney from the roast-loin. 454. To Jug VeaL—Cut, flatten, and season slices of veal, and put them into an earthen or stone jar, with a few sprigs of sweet herbs, a roll of lemon-peel, and some bits of fresh butter. Cover the jar very closely, and set it in a pot of boiling water, or in a slow oven, for from two to three hours. Take off the covering, and stir a little thickening and the juice of a lemon into the sauce, and, allowing a few minutes for this to blend, dish the veal in a ragout-dish, picking out the herbs and lemon-peel. Garnish with slices of lemon. For choice small dishes of veal, see from Nos. 627 to 643, French Cookery, 455. Veal-Cdke,—This is rather a pretty fantastical dish to ornament a table than one about which either the epicure or economist cares much. Take the hard yolks of eight or more eggs, and cut them in two. Put some of them in the bottom of a small nice tin saucepan, or earthenware dish. Strew chopped parsley over them, with seasonings; then thin slices of veal and ham, or better, veal and ham, sepa- rately beaten to a paste in a mortar. Place thus alternate layers of egg, parsley, and meat-paste, till you have enough. Stick butter over the top, and add a little water or stock; cover the saucepan very close, and set it in an oven. When done, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour, take off the covering, and press the meat down. When cold and firm, turn it out. It may be baked in an oval or fluted earthenware shape, turned out, and garnished with curled parsley, etc.