41 SYLLABUS OF CULINARY LECTURES. colour of the flesh about the vent.—Hams and Bacon good when the flesh adheres firmly to the bone, the smell fresh, the lean clear, and not streaked with yellow.—Very good hams from Westmoreland, Yorkshire, Wiltshire, and other parts of England and Ireland :—if well fed and cured, quite equal to those of Bayonne and Westphalia.—Brawn.—If old, the rind thick and hard.—Salt Butter and Cheese to be probed and tasted. Fresh butter easily known by the taste. —Eggs not easily known when stale. Hold between the eye and a candle in a dark room, and if the yolk be unbroken the egg is not stale :—Rather a doubtful test this.—Fish of all kinds best when fresh caught; but the flat fish, as tur- bot, skate, halibut, may keep a few days, and even ripen and mellow: salmon, trout, eels, herrings, and mackerel, and also haddocks and whitings, cannot be too fresh. The red fish the most rich, though oily; the white the most diges- tible. Shell-fish of all sorts should be quite fresh to be wholesome or even safe. Lobsters often underhoiled by fish- mongers to make them keep longer. An eye of some expe- rience and the sense of smell best determine the freshness of fish:—directions in the receipts, Chapter, Fish, for pre- paring, cooking, and preserving the several kinds.—Anchovies and Pickled Salmon known by the smell and fresh colour of the fish.—Their pickle-liquor should be pure and well- flavoured.—The red colour given to anchovy-liquor by arti- ficial means, and no test of goodness.—All provisions SHOULD BE BOUGHT WITH READY MONEY; OR THE BILLS SETTLED WEEKLY. ShOWN TO BE A SAVING OF MANY PER CENTS. yil.—Miscellaneous Hints and Directions.—Straining to be done twice if necessary, or with a double tammy-sieve. —All jelly-bags to be moistened in hot water, and well wrung:—if used dry, will drink up a considerable quantity of the article strained.—Full supply of kitchen-cloths,—use of gauze-wire covers and cheese-cloths in preserving raw and cold provisions. Marble slab for paste,—marble pestle