454 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. a pound of jiucy apples. Put to them six ounces of butter beat cold to a cream, four beat-eggs, two pudding-biscuits pounded, the rind of a lemon grated on sugar to taste, a spoonful of brandy, and another of orange - flower - water. Bake in a puff-paste marked in leaves round the border, and when done, strew candied lemon or orange-peel sliced, over the top.—Ohs. Any good sweet biscuit may be used, or grated bread. A little lemon-juice or cider may be added if the apples are too mellow. 853. A Swiss Apple-Pudding.—Place alternately a layer of sliced apples and sugar, with a very thin layer of rusks pounded and soaked in milk. Finish with the pounded rusks, and pour melted butter over the pudding. Grate sugar over it when baked. 854. The Manse Apple-Pudding.—Pare, slice, core, and stew a pound of apples in a small stewpan, with a stick of cinnamon, and two or three cloves. When the apples are soft, sweeten them to taste. Pulp them through a sieve, and add the beat yolks of four eggs, a quarter-pound of but- ter, with the grated peel and the juice of a lemon. Mix the ingredients well, and boil the pudding, or bake it for a half- hour in a dish lined with puff-paste. 855. Nottingham Apple-Pudding.—Pare and core six large apples. Fill the hearts with moist sugar and a little cinna- mon. Place them in a pie-dish, pour a light batter-pudding, suitably seasoned, over them, and bake till the apples are ready,—three quarters of an hour or less. 856. Victoria,. Apricot^ Peachj or Nectarine Pudding.— Pour a pint of hot cream over what would fill a cup of bread-crumbs, and cover the jug. When cold, add the beat yolks of four eggs, a glass of white wine, and beat sugar to taste. Scald, till soft, a dozen large apricots. Peel them, cut them, take out the kernels, and pound the whole in a mortar, adding more sugar if necessary. Mix them with the other ingredients, and, lastly, the beat whites of two of the eggs, and bake in a dish with a paste-border. The apri- cots should not be too ripe. This may be made an iced pudding.—Nos. 874, 874^, 874^. 857. Gooseberry-Pudding.—Stew green gooseberries till they will pulp through a sieve. When cold, pulp them, and add to them six ounces of butter, four ounces of Savoy bis-