526 CHAP. I. LIQUEEES, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. above a jug, containing the remainder of the bottle of wine, previously made very hot. Add more syrup if it is wanted. Serve hot in large glasses. In summer it may be iced. Bishop is often made of Madeira in England, and is flavoured with nutmegs, bruised cloves, and mace. It ought, how- ever, to be made of old, generous Bordeaux wine, or it fails of its purpose as a tonic liqueur. It is reckoned highly stom- achic, and is served at French dinners, savans et recherches^ as the coup-dCapres.—See Absinthe^ Nos. 1060, and 1076. 1071. Norfolk-Punch. — Pare thinly thirty-two Seville oranges, and the same number of lemons. Infuse the peel for two days in a wide-necked bottle or jar, with a gallon of brandy (or flavourless whisky) reduced in strength one- sixth. Clarify in a gallon of water four pounds of sugar. When cold, strain the brandy (which will now be a tinc- ture) to this. Add the juice of the oranges and lemons to this,—previously strained and bottled, when the peel is taken ofl". Cask these liqueurs in a brandy-cask if conveni- ent, or put them in a jar. Stop well. In six weeks they may be gently drawn off and bottled, but may stand for months. A tincture of bruised nutmegs and cloves may be added to this compound. A small quantity of milk was wont to be put to this, but is now often omitted. 1072. Milk-Punch,—Rub off on lumps of sugar the zest of a dozen lemons. Pare off what you cannot rub off on the sugar, but take none of the white stuff. Infuse in two quarts of brandy. Strain off in two days, and add of clarified syrup two pounds, and of water two quarts, with a half-pint of hot new milk. Strain through a jelly-bag, and keep in a close-stopped jar, or small cask, till it fine, which will be in six weeks or less.—Ohs. This beverage is getting into desuetude. It may be made extempore by adding a little hot milk sweetened, and brandy to lemonade, and straining through a jelly-bag. 1073. To Mull Wine.—Boil the spiceries (cinnamon, nut- meg grated, cloves, and mace) in any quantity approved, in a quarter-pint, or better, of water; put to this a full pint of port, with sugar to taste. Mix it welL Serve hot with thin slips of toast or rusks.—Ohs. The yolks of eggs were formerly mixed with mulled wine, as in making hot-pint or egg-caudle, and many flavouring ingredients were employed