201 TO STEW MUSSELS FOR FISH-SAUCE. as oyster-fritterSj only the fritter-batter must be stiffer, and highly-seasoned with mace, nutmeg, and lemon-peel. Oyster- loaves, a fantastic sort of dish, are made as oyster-patties, filling the little rolls—croustades—made for this purpose instead of patty-cases. See Patties and Oyster-sauce^ Pre- served Oysters^ etc.* 184. To Stew Mussels for Fish-Sauce. Stew them as oysters in their own strained liquor, with pepper, butter, and a little vinegar, carefully picking off the beards, which are disagreeable and unwholesome. * Fish is a favourite food with the rich and luxurious, but it is not thought to possess much nourishment, though late experiments of men of science in France go far to overturn this opinion. When it is wished rapidly to reduce the weight of jockeys at Newmarket, they are kept on fish. Fish is considered more easy of digestion than flesh, though of some kinds we are disposed to question the statement. Shell-fish, including turtle, from approaching to the nature of meat jelly, are the most nutri- tious, but not always the most easily digested. Salmon and salmon-trout, turbot and sturgeon, are all nutritious, but heavy. Eels are nourishing, but difficult of digestion. Salt-water fish are more wholesome than the fish of slimy lakes and muddy pools. White fish are more easily digested than those of more richness and flavour, such as salmon and herring : and, if less fat, are at least as nutritious. Pike, the water-wolf, is firm in the texture, and a well-flavoured and wholesome, though not a favourite fish. Carp and tench are considered wholesome. Whitings, flounders, and soles, being of a moist juicy nature, are light, and easy of digestion. There seems, according to Sir John Sinclair, to be a general understanding among mankind, that fish ought to be eaten with butter and acids. " Fish and milk," says the same authority, " are seldom conjoined." Brandy, he ought to have added, is Latin for a salmon. Fish," says Sir John, " do not agree with vegetables, except the potato." Here he is wrong; the people in Orkney and Shetland, who live a great deal both on fresh and salt fish, consume cabbage in large quantities with it, and are entirely free from the scurvy, and those cutaneous diseases which overrun the people of the Hebrides, who raise no vegetables. " Among all fish," says Lynch's Guide to Health, whether of sea or river, the middle-sized are the best; also those that have not hard and dry flesh, that are crisp and tender, and have many scales and fins." The meat of the turtle, the sea-turtle, is con- sidered not only as a high-flavoured expensive delicacy, but as salubrious and highly nutritious, though those sickly half-dead animals, which are spiced and drugged for city-banquets, may not possess these qualities. Fish were held in such esteem by the ancients, that persons constantly rode post with live fish to Eome, as they now travel by railway. Note by Dr Redgill.—" It is strongly recommended to those who may, like me, have the misfortune to swallow a fish-bone, to take four grains of tartar emetic dissolved in warm water, and immediately after- wards the beat whites of four eggs. This mess will instantly coagulate, and will probably unfix the bone from the throat or stomach. The bones of pike, which are sharp and pronged, and so very hard that they will not dissolve in the stomach, ought to be watchfully avoided." i2