OF VEAL. 299 see Nos. 706, 212. Like many other dishes, it is much im- proved by having fire put over the stewpan, especially towards the conclusion of the process. Fricandeau should be so well done as to carve with a spoon; but for English palates meat quite in tatters does not always suit. Four or five small pieces of veal may be served as fricandeau, and this is often done. This and all things glaze better, if first dried before the fire or in a slow oven. 440. To Ragout a Knuckle of Veal—[an economical Dish). —Cut off the meat the cross way of the grain in slices rather thinner and smaller than for cutlets. Draw slowly, nearly a quart of broth from the chopped bone, the skins, gristles, and trimmings, with a head of celery, an onion, a carrot and turnip, a small fagot of parsley, and a sprig of lemon- thyme and basil, and a blade of mace. Season the slices with salt and cooks' pepper; dredge with flour, and brown them in a small stewpan ; and, pouring the strained broth over them, stew very slowly over embers or at a considerable distance from the fire, till quite tender. Thicken the sauce with flour rolled in butter or white roux^ and, just before serving, add the squeeze of a lemon.—To Stew a Knuckle with Rice J see page 149. 441. To Braise a Neck or Piece of Veal.—Cut part of the scrag in small bits, but keep whole, and lard the best end of it with chopped bacon, minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Lay the larded meat in a shallow stewpan, with hot water to cover it, and put over and around it the cut scrag, some slices of bacon, four onions, a turnip, a head of celery, two carrots, and three bay-leaves. Stew till tender, strain off the gravy, and, melting some butter in another stewpan, take the neck gently up, and lay it there to brown. When browned, take as much of the strained gravy as will do for sauce, with a glass of white wine, the juice of a Seville orange, white pepper and mace; boil up. Dish with the browned side uppermost, and pour the sauce round it.—Ohs. This is a rather expensive dish, with little to recommend it over plain savoury stews of veal, save the name and the larding^—a resource of cookery, by the way, which does not seem peculiarly suited to English palates, and which is every day less employed even in the Anglo-Gallican kitchen. Any piece of meat, poultry, or game, may be braised as