563 POULTICES. 1150. Fumigating or disinfecting Mixtures.—Two ounces of salt dried, two ditto of nitre. Mix and put to them, in a stone- ware dish, a half-ounce of water, and the same quantity of good sulphuric acid. Remove all polished metal articles from the room, as the vapour would rust them, and close all doors and windows. Or, place chloride of lime, with forty times its weight of water, in plates in different parts of the room. 1151. As Fomentations and Poultices are usually prepared in the kitchen, the cook ought to know how the various kinds are best managed. Poultices in the country, are gen- erally made of bread and milk, but bread and water answers very well, may be oftener changed, and is more quickly prepared. Bread-and-water Poultice.—Crumble down the soft part of a slice of bread into a jug; pour boiling water over it; let it soak; break it with a spoon, and if too thin pour off a little of the moisture, and spread it on a cloth to apply as usual. Bread and milk the same, but may be boiled a minute. A little fresh butter or lard is often laid over this and Oatmeal-Poultice. This last is made exactly like por- ridge, but must have no salt, and be long boiled. Arrowroot Poultice is made by simply breaking the powder with a spoonful of cold water, and then adding boiling water, as in preparing arrowroot for an infant. This poultice is fancied peculiarly soothing. Linseed-Meal Poultice.—Make as arrowroot. An excel lent poultice is made of equal qaantities of linseed-meal and bread-crumbs. Carrot-Poultice.—Boil carrots till they are a soft pulp. Onion-Poultice the same. When more complicated poultices are required, the surgeon usually gives direction as to what quantity of the extract of hemlock, foxglove, or whatever else is ordered, should be added to a linseed-meal or other poultice. 1152. Fomentations. — These are generally made of the leaves or flowers of plants, as chamomile-flower, mallows, elder-flowers, poppy-heads, wormwood, etc. They are best made by maceration in boiling water kept hot near the fire ; but the articles may also be boiled. Fomentations are gen- erally applied by dipping flannel (about a square of flannel) into the boiling decoction, and wringing it very hot quickly