533 GENERAL OBSERVATIONF^. method is this:—Bore a hole about half-way up the cask, and use a small quill to draw off the purest of the wine. Now bore a hole a little lower down, and if what is drawn off be not so bright as that first drawn, do not mix them. The lees may be filtered. The chief qualities of home-made wines (for they never will have the flavour of fresh grape-wines) consist, after all, in colour and brightness; so that it is of very great import- ance to have them carefully racked. When not perfectly translucent on a first racking, the wine must be racked a second and even a third time, and fined. Wine should, it is said, be bottled in clear settled weather. The bottles should be new, or at least perfectly clean and dry, and great atten- tion must be paid to the corking. A variety of things are used for perfuming wines; such as sweet herbs, peach-leaves, sweet bay-leaves, bruised al- monds or kernels of fruit, bergamot, cloves, ginger, etc., etc. Brandy will enrich wines: it ought, when added, to be pre- viously mixed with syrup. Flat wines may be enlivened by adding raisins bruised, mixing first a very little spirits with them. The addition of good wine will better answer the same purpose. Home-made wine is apt to ferment over- much ; this may be checked by removing the wine into a cool place, putting a little spirits to check it, and making the bung fast, so as to exclude air. But fermentation is sometimes too slow, and by experience we would recom- mend, as a certain means of making the fermentation sure, whether of wines or beers, when yeast is employed, to com- mence the process with a quart of the cooled liquor in a small vessel. This may be gradually increased to two or three quarts, and then put to the whole contents of the vat which you wish to ferment. By this means less yeast will do, and the process will be more certain. This rule is applicable to ginger-beer and to every sort of liquor fermented by yeast. After fermentation is over, be sure the cask is kept quite full and close bunged. The sooner wine is bottled after it is ned the more it will sparkle; we do not say it will be the etter wine. A good judge will choose a creaming rather than an effervescing or sparkling wine. 1096. Best White Gooseberry Champagne.—To every four pints of ripe white or amber gooseberries mashed, add a quart and a half of milk-warm water and twelve ounces of