CURING GEESE, ETC. 577 brine every day for a month. It may either be hung and dried, or boiled out of this pickle.—See pp. 283, 289, 290. 1189. To Cure Geese.—In Languedoc, and other parts of France where land is of small value, and geese are plentiful, much of the winter-food of genteel provincial families de- pends on these birds. As the information may be found useful in Ireland, and remote parts both of England and Scotland, we shall detail the French method of proceeding: —When the geese are very fat, about the end of autumn, they are killed, and the wings and legs cut off, leaving as little flesh on the body as possible. The legs are partly boned, and, for every five geese, a half-ounce of saltpetre is mixed with the necessary quantity of common salt, with which the legs and wings are well rubbed, and laid for twenty-four hours in a pan with savoury herbs. Mean- while, all the fat is collected from the bodies and intestines, and boiled down as lard over a very slow fire, strained, and put to cool. The legs, wings, and the body cut in pieces, are, in twenty-four hours, taken from the salt, passed through fresh water, and stewed over a slow fire till the flesh will pierce with a straw. They are then taken out, and, when cold, packed in jars, and the melted fat poured over them ; when cold, parchment, or paper and bladder, are tied over the jars. A French family has, from this stock of winter provisions, the power of having a ragout of a leg or wing, heated in a little of the jelly and fat in which the meat is preserved; or a soupe of a neck, back, or pinion, with the mere addition of herbs, vegetables, and suitable seasonings. The relish is high; and French cooks speak with rapture of this savoury and economical mode of cooking geese. Young pigs may be treated in the same manner, but their flavour is not nearly so high. If the fat of geese be thus esteemed by our Continental neighbours, there is certainly, in this depart- ment, much waste in English kitchens. 1189^. Prepared Salmon or Cod Roes.—"Take the roes from a fish as near spawning as possible ; wash the roes well with milk and water, and then in cold water, till it come clean off; afterwards, put the roe in a sieve, and drain fifteen minutes. To salt them, take eight ounces of salt to three pounds of spawn, and let them lie in the brine forty- eight hours. Lay them on a board about three-fourths of a 2 B