426 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. pared as if for Fricassee^ seasoning highly, and covering with paste. It is a nonsense pie, save for variety. 781. Plain Veal-Pie.—Cut small cutlets from the back- ribs or breast. Trim off the bones,—no bone should find place in any meat-pie,—and season the chops highly with mixed spices and such minced herbs as you choose; add a glass of water or a little gravy drawn from the trimmings, and cover the pie.—Ohs. A slice of dressed bacon is an im- provement. Uncooked bacon, if used, would, from the salt- petre in it, make the veal red and ugly-looking; else un- cooked were more savoury. 782. A richer Veal-Pie.—Proceed as above, but add a few slices of lean dressed bacon, forcemeat-balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs; or a scalded sweetbread cut into bits, and also truffles, morells, or mushrooms, as is convenient or ap- proved. When baked, pour some well-seasoned hot gravy into the pie by removing the top ornament. Then replace it. 783. ^ very rich Veal-Pie.—Cut steaks from the breast or fillet. Season them with white pepper, salt, mace, and cloves pounded, lemon-grate, and a scrape of nutmeg, all mixed. Cut down and season, as above, two sweetbreads or a veal-kidney, first well soaked. Lay an edging of paste round the ledge of the pie-dish, and fill it. Put divided hard-boiled yolks of eggs or the cut sweetbreads, and either some mushrooms or oysters, over the meat. Strew in more mixed seasonings, and place a layer of thin slices of cooked lean ham over the whole. Put in a half-pint of water or gravy, and cover the dish. When ready, remove the top ornament, and pour in through a funnel a large glassful of good veal-gravy, quite hot, and thickened with flour and cream; replace the top. Cold veal^ leef^ or mutton^ may be re-dressed, seasoning highly either as pie or potato-pasty. 784. Veal Olive Pie.—Cut long slices from the fillet, and flatten and season them. Having first brushed them with the yolk of an egg, roll them up neatly as olives, not too large, and place them in the dish, making the middle part highest, as is proper in all pies. Add a glass of water, and cover the dish; or add good gravy, thickened with cream and flour. A little forcemeat spread on each olive, before rolling up, will be an improvement. 785. Eich Veal Olive Pie^ Scottish.—MdkQ a forcemeat of