380 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. not scale it. Put a little court houillon in a stewpan with parsley-roots, cloves, parsley, two bay-leaves, and onions, also a carrot if you like. When these have stewed an hour, strain the liquor over the pike or trout in a small oval fish- pan, and add a little Madeira. When boiled, drain the fish, and take off the scales thoroughly; then put it again in the pan, with a little of the liquor to keep it moist and hot. Make a roux or thickening, and add to it veal-gravy (or, if for a maigre dish, wine); season this sauce with mushroom, parsley, and green onions. Let it stew till smooth. Thicken with butter kneaded in flour if needful. Strain the sauce hot over the dished fish, with a squeeze of lemon, and a little essence of anchovy.* Obs, For red fish use red wine, with mace, and more cloves. N.B.—Saumon d la Genevoise is dressed exactly in this w^ay, which, though rich cookery, is now more out of vogue than fish served d la Matelote^ No. 685. The head of the fish must be bound up to keep it from breaking, which is proper in dressing all large fish. 682. Turhot d la Creme d'AnchoiSj Soyer's way.—Boil the fish, and dish without a napkin. To a quart of melted butter, add, when it nearly boils, five or six ounces of anchovy butter, and four spoonfuls of whipped cream. Mix, but do not allow it to boil. Pour it over the dished tur- bot, and sprinkle with chopped capers and gherkins. Cold Turhot d la Creme [gratine).—Form a thick smooth batter of a quart of milk and a pound of flour; to which add two eschalots, with a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, tied together; with a little salt, white j)epper, and grated nutmeg. Stir constantly, and boil the batter over a sharp fire till it becomes a thick paste; then take it off, and stir in a half-pound of melted butter, and the beat yolks of two eggs. Pass it through a tammy, and pour some into the bottom of a dish, over which place a layer of the boned (and, if you like, skinned) cold turbot. Then sauce, and again fish in alternate layers, finishing with sauce: strew lightly over the whole grated crumbs, and grated Parmesan. Bake for twenty minutes in a temperate oven, brown with a salamander, and serve in the baking- * Essence of anchovy has become a suspicious commodity. Where practicahlCj substitute anchovies.