134 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 71. Onion-Soup Maigre,—^ood Chop and fry in butter a dozen large onions, two heads of celery, and a large carrot and turnip sliced. Pulp the roots through a tammy, and put them to two quarts of boiling water thickened with six ounces of butter kneaded up with rice-flour, and seasoned with salt, mace, and white pepper. The crumb of two penny loaves may be boiled in the water instead of the rice-flour, but it must then be strained. Add bread-sippets fried in butter, and thicken with the beat yolks of four eggs. 72. Potage a la Clermont, An elegant Onion-Soup, Brown a dozen small silver onions cut in rings, of a nice golden tinge, and drain them; cook them lightly in a little broth, and stew them for twenty minutes in clear gravy- broth, coloured with veal jelly-gravy, which is an excellent material for colouring soups or sauces. Serve with toasted sippets previously soaked in the tureen. 73. Vegetable Marrow, Jerusalem Artichoke, and other Vegetable Soups. Trim and slice nice young Vegetable Marrow. Stew it in veal or fowl broth. [The liquor in which a young turkey is boiled is an excellent basis for vegetable and paste soups.] When boiled almost to a mash, press the marrow through a sieve; add boiling cream or whisked yolk of an egg when nearly cooked. Grated cocoa-nut is a good addition. Add white pepper and salt to taste. The soup may be dished on toasted sippets. Under the head Vegetable Soups, or PotageSj the French comprehend an endless variety of prep- arations, many of them maigre. Under it might also be this pungent root, whether to give savour to their rich dishes, or raw, to relish the crust from the wallet, and the draught from the brook, which form the gay repast of the poor and light-hearted sojourners one likes so much to meet with in the Spanish novels. The Scotch peasants seasoned their chappit potatoes with shred onion, and sometimes their brose ; and the grave and high authority of Mrs Hannah More recommends " an onion from their own garden, which makes everything savoury and costs nothing," to the poor of England. Soupe a I'oignon " is thought highly restorative by the French. It is considered peculiarly grateful, and gently stimulating after hard drinking or night-watching, and holds among soups the place that champagne, soda-water, or ginger-beer, does among liquors.