125 RULES FOR MAKING STOCK BROTH. vegetable soups, etc., may be plunged into a trough or large vessel of spring water. Where there is no ice-house this is a good way to keep cream or milk sweet. The wicker- work boxes or baskets, lined with charcoal, used in hot climates, might often be useful at home to preserve meat, ices, etc. When soup is to be finished or warmed, take off the cake of fat which settles on the top, strain, and hold back the sediment. Give all soup ample time in preparing. From four to six hours is not too much; but the finer flavouring ingre- dients for soups, gravies, or made-dishes, need not be added, save for the length of time necessary to blend the various zests into one harmonious relish, without exposing them to that degree of continued heat which drives off their subtle essence. This observation is peculiarly applicable to cat- sups, aromatic spices, wines, flavouring vinegars, lemon and orange juice, etc.; and a much smaller quantity of these costly ingredients would answer the purpose if it were attended to. In certain cases it is proper to put in the half of these ingredients at an early stage of the process, that the flavour may be intimately blended with the prepara- tion, adding what remains to give piquance near the con- clusion. In English books on cookery there is often too much wine ordered for soups, and sometimes too little meat. The former error is the less dangerous, as what is levied from the cellar may not always find its way to the soup- pot. Eoots, bread-raspings, or barley, for plain common soups, ought to be put in as soon as the pot is skimmed, when the roots are merely intended to thicken and flavour the soup. When to be cut in pieces and served in the broth, an hour's boiling is generally enough for carrots, tur- nips, onions. Many things are used to thicken and give consistency to common soups; not the worst is the flour of oatmeal; but arrow-root, rice-flour, or rice, potato-flour, pearl-barley, and bread are each excellent. When the soup or gravy is too much toiled down, the waste must be supplied with boiling water or broth; and though in general we strenuously recommend close-covered pots, yet when the soup is watery and weak, the lid may be taken off till the watery particles evaporate; for thiclcening gives con- sistence but not strength. It facilitates the operation, if meat for soup or gravy be cut into pieces of about a half-