TO DRESS COD-SOUNDS. CABEACHED COD. 173 124. To Dress Cod-Sounds. Clean and scald them with very hot water, and rub them with salt. Take ofF the sloughy coat, parboil them, then flour and broil till enough done. Dish them and pour a sauce made of brown gravy, pepper, cayenne, salt, a little butter kneaded in browned flour, a teaspoonful of made- mustard, and one of soy. Cod-sounds are dressed as ragout, by boiling as above, and then stewing in clear gravy, add- ing a little cream and butter kneaded in flour, with a sea- soning of lemon-peel, nutmeg, and mace. Cut them in fillets. They may also be cut in fillets, turned round, dipped in batter, and fried; and served on a napkin. See Note to No. 1189, and also Nos. 682-4, and 691. Cod- livers and their oil we leave to the physicians, who cer- tainly make the most of them. 125. Cold Boiled Cod Curried, A LARGE fish that comes in fine flakes is best. Fry the flakes in butter, with sliced onions, of a pale brown, and stew them in a little white gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour, and a large dessertspoonful of curry- powder, rubbed down with a glassful of good cream. Ohs, Cream for curries is, we think, the better of being a little turned,—thick and sourish, but not clotted. Good butter- milk makes a substitute for cream in this and most com- mon made-dishes. The large flakes may be seasoned and then fried in batter with butter or lard. See Curried Fish, No. 154. 126. Cabeached Cod. Cut the tail-part of the fish into slices, and upon these rub some white pepper and salt. Then fry in Spanish oil. Take the slices from the pan, and lay them on a plate to cool. When cold, put them into a pickle made of good vinegar, in which some white peppercorns, a few cloves, a little mace, and salt, have been boiled. When cold, mix with the pickle a teacupful of oil. Put the fish into a pot, and between every piece lay a few slices of onion, and keep the whole well covered with the pickle. In the same manner salmon may be cabeached; but if taken fresh out of the water, it is liable to break, which it will not do after being kept a few days. Mackerel when prime may be