SUCKING-PIG. 87 garities but tlie obsolete barbarisms of cookery ; others con- sider red currant jelly indispensable : and when will an Englishman give up the currant jelly of his boyhood? N.B.—Potatoes browned in the dripping-pan, or a plain potato-pudding placed below the dripping roast, are favourite accompaniments to this dish at our Club. Mashed turnip is another approved accompaniment. — See Made-Dishes of Mutton. 20. To Roast a Sucking Pig.—By Dr Redgill. A SUCKING PIG! un cockon de lait! France and England, natural enemies on the relative merits of ragouts and roast beef, are in brotherhood here. The age for killing, on which every gourmand^ whether insular or continental, has set his seal, is from ten days to double that number. Unlike the ways of other flesh, in this delicate creature—this " ortolan with four feet," as a corresponding member calls him—there is but one step between the gully of the butcher and the carver's knife. In short, he must be killed; but that done, the sooner he is roasted and eaten, the better is he relished by those in the secret. The ordinary way, after he has received the coup de grace^ is to take off the hair by scalding.* When cleaned from the hair, the entrails * Dr Redgill, though apt to be somewhat violent in his prejudices, and entertaining a loyal and laudable hatred of Cobbett and all his ways, paused when Touchwood communicated to him the method which that demagogue—infalliole in hog's flesh, and unequalled in bolting—recom- mends for removing the hair of grown porkei s: " And why not," said the Nabob, "of sucklings?" "The first method" (scalding), says Cobbett, " slackens the skin, opens all the pores of it, and makes it loose and flabby, t)y drawing out the roots of the hair. The second (singeing) tirrhtens the skin in every part, contracts all the sinews and veins," etc. This is said in reference to bacon, no doubt; but it was for talent like Dr Redgill's to apply it to young pigs. In a roast pig, where cradding is all in all, this burning process is surely worthy of trial. The President, with a meanness of jealousy of which the good Doctor was incapable, where pig of which he was himself to partake was concerned, had indeed kept this important information secret till the scalded Sieve of his rival was smoking in the platter; he then referred, with malicious triumph, to the singeing of sheep's head, reasoning on what a icersh, fusionless morsel it would make if scalded. The moisture which had overflowed the Doctor's chops as he viewed his savoury charge reposing, as might say, " in the crispness of his beauty," was arrested in its course. But between a singed pig in prospect, and a scalded pig on the table, ready roasted, sauce, crackling^ stuffing, all alike inviting, the Doctor did not long hesitate. N. B.—Every cook should be made aware, that, by singeing chickens and fowls, she not only removes the downy feathers, but gives firmness to the flesh, and tenacity to the skin; and that the chickens, if for fricassee, broiling, etc., will cut up much cleaner when well singed.