INDIAN PICKLE. 273 Jamaica pepper, ginger, cloves, and a little cayenne, have been previously boiled.—Ohs. A few slices of beetroot make a pretty fill-up disb for any odd corner on a table, and a rather elegant garnish, particularly if contrasted with the brilliant emerald green of pickled samphire. The slices, when to be used, may be cut with a cutter in the form of leaves, flowers, or Vandyked; a few small silver-onions, and turnips scooped out to the size of marbles, will take the rich red tinge of this pickle, form an ornamental variety with the beetroot, and cost nothing. Cochineal will im- prove the colour. 379. Indian Pickle, or Piccalilli.—This is a general hodge- podge pickle of all the common green and white pickles to which the curry flavour and tawny curry tinge is given. Prepare the pickle-liquor thus :—To every two quarts of the best vinegar, put an ounce and a half of white ginger, scraped and sliced, the same of long pepper, two ounces of peeled eschalots, one of peeled garlic, an ounce and a half of salt, an ounce of turmeric, a little cayenne, and some flour of mustard. Let this infuse in a close jar set in a warm place for a week; and, in the meanwhile, have ready a white cabbage sliced, cauliflowers cut in neat branches, white turnip-radishes, young French beans, sliced cucum- bers, button-onions, and codling-apples, a large carrot cut in round slices, nicked round the edges, capsicums, bird- pepper, etc. Sprinkle all these things with plenty of salt, mixing it well with them in a large earthen vessel, or pour- ing scalding brine over them. Let them lie for four days, often turning them over, and then take them up, wash them in vinegar, and dry them carefully with a cloth, and after- wards lay them on sieves before the fire, turning them over till thoroughly dried. Next day, place them either in a large stone jar, or in smaller jars, and pour the cooled, strained pickle over them. The jars must be well stopped. —Ols. This pickle keeps a long time, and for the first two years will even improve by the keeping. The vegetables do not all come in together, but they may be prepared as for pickling, and added to the general pickle as they come into season. This pickle looks more attractive if the French beans, small whole cucumbers, or melons, are greened before they are put to it, as directed in other receipts. When the melons or cucumbers are greened^ cut a slit in the sides, M 2