CHAP. VI.—BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 144 85. Baked Mock-Turtle Soup. This is good, easily prepared, and generally liked. Put a broken knuckle of veal, or the gristly ends of two knuckles, into a deep earthen pan, with two cow-heels, the half of a calf's head broken, four onions, a dozen of pepper- corns, three blades of mace, and a few sprigs of lemon- thyme, eschalot, or any other flavouring substance that is best relished by those for whom the soup is prepared. Fill up the dish with water or weak broth ; tie several folds of paper over the mouth of it, and set it in an oven for up- Avards of two hours. When it is cold, take off the fat from the jelly, cut the meat into mouthfuls, and stew it with the clear jelly till perfectly tender. Wine, spiceries, catsup, forcemeat balls as in the former receipts, or whatever is approved of, may be added, if a soup of haut gout be wanted; or it may be seasoned with only a little mushroom-catsup, and served plain. The French often make their Mock- Turtle soup stock of the trimmings of flsh and mutton knuckles, etc., using meat full of gelatine. They clarify the stock [see note to No. 63, To clarify Stock) and boil it so much down that, when cool, it will bear the Madeira on its surface. They cook the parboiled head in white sauce, and then proceed as above directed, only using more hard- boiled yolks of eggs. 86. To Make Egg-Balls for Mock-Turtle Soup. Pound a sufficient quantity of the yolks of hard-boiled eggs in a mortar, with as much raw yolk and flour as will bind the composition. Add salt, and make up in the form of balls the size of a marble. Put at least two dozen to a tureen of soup. 87. Scotch Hare, Rabbit, or Game Soup,—Excellent. Skin and clean the hare thoroughly, saving the blood. Cut a dozen or more of very small chops from the back, shoulders, and rump. Put what remains of the hare and the bones into a pot, with four pounds of fresh shin or neck of beef, four quarts of water, a couple of turnips, two car- rots, six middle-sized onions, a half ounce of black and Jamaica peppercorns, an ounce of salt, a fagot of sweet