CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 866 635. Calfs Liver^ with Fine Herbs.—Cut a sound white liver into oblong slices less than an inch thick. Form these into the shape of hearts about two inches broad, dredge them with flour, and put them to fry with onions, mushrooms, parsley previously shred, and stewed in butter, pepper, and salt. Fry all this gently till ready, and dust it with more pepper. Keep the pieces hot, put a little brath or gravy to the herbs to moisten them, and stew for three minutes, and serve over the liver, which must be dished in form, arranging the bits neatly.— Ohs. This dish is often served for the Dejeuner d la fourchette^ and must then have a spice of cayenne, be highly seasoned, and served very hot.— See Nos. 54 and 452. 636. Blanquettes of Veal.—Cut a cold roast loin or shoulder of veal into small pieces, using only the white part. Trim away the browned outside, and fat, and mince the veal. Stir it till warm in velouie well reduced; but do not let it boil. Thicken with the beat yolk of an egg or two, and add a squeeze of lemon when ready to serve.—See Nos. 464 and 465. 637. Blanquettes with Cucumhers.—Cut cold veal as above into scollops, and heat them in sauce tournee. Quarter and cut four or five cucumbers also into scollops.. Cook these also in sauce tournee. Drain them; reduce the strained sauce; thicken it with the beat yolks of two eggs. Put in a little hot cream, salt, and a bit of sugar. Serve the sauce over the meat and cucumbers, neatly dished. 638. Blanquettes d la Baysanne.—Prepare the veal as above in scollops. Heat the meat in a reduced sauce tournee. Thicken with egg, and season with minced parsley, and^ before serving, add a good squeeze of lemon. These pre- parations may be served in dishes with borders. 639. Cold Sweetbreads.—Cut them into scollops or square bits. Stew them in strong gravy till heated through. Fry scollops of bread: dish, placing the meat and bread scollops alternately, and garnish with fried parsley. 640. Veal Cutlets d la Chingara.^—Cut and trim cutlets * These were the favourite cutlets of the Nabob. Jekyll preferred cutlets a Vltalienne, i. e., dipped in butter, nicely broiled, and served with white Italian-sauce.