CHAP. III. KOASTING. 92 accompanying disli.* Be careful to brown the outside nicely, which can only be well done by attention to the state of the fire.-j- The tendrons are often cut out of a breast of large veal, and dressed separately, as Tendrons de veau, No. 6291 24. Loin and Breast of Veal. A LOIN is roasted and served in the very same way, only the kidney fat, which is so delicate, must be papered, and the roast should be more constantly basted.J The flap should be rolled in and skewered firm, and the bones chop- ped off, to give the dish a handsome shape. If a large loin, the kidney must be skewered back for a time to roast thoroughly. The Shoulder should always be stuffed; and the stuffing for this piece requires more suet, marrow, or butter, whichever is employed, than the forcemeat for the fillet. The breast must be covered with paper or the Caul on, till nearly enough done, which both preserves and enriches the meat. Serve these roasts with their own gravy only. 25. To Boast a Leg or Saddle of Lamb. A SADDLE is now considered a stylish joint for a small party. Whether Leg, Shoulder, or Saddle, place it at some distance from a sharp clear fire, and baste well; paper, if * Forcemeat must be left in a great measure to the genius and invention of the cook. Like spiceries and seasoning, it may, in the exercise of good discretion, be used ad libitum^ bearing in mind that it is intended to enrich and give piquance to the more insipid meats. Relishing ingredients of all kinds enter into the composition of forcemeat, such as grated ham or spiced beef, sausage, pickled oysters, caviare, anchovy, sweet herbs, eschalots, mushrooms, truffles, and morells, curry powder, cayenne, etc. " Plodding perseverance," said Jekyll, " may make a good roaster, and careful observance of rules a tolerable compounder of a made-dish; but the true maker of forcemeat, like the true poet, must be born." f " A bit of the brown " is esteemed the most delicate part of this roast. It was with this, liberally supplied from Mr Strahan's veal, that the demagogue Wilkes not only overcame the prejudices, but actually gained the heart, of Dr Johnson,—a success which far outdoes that of Richard III. over Lady Anne. But then he helped a slice of the lemon or bitter orange, which formed the garnishing, along with the browned outside. Ever, as you would gain the heart of a judicious epicure, garnish your roast veal with slices of lemon.—P. T. X On Basting.—Cooks, like Doctors, differ on many points, and among others on basting. We consider that both basters and anti-basters may be right or wrong according to circumstances. To baste mutton too much, for example, would stew, not roast it; but veal cannot be too much basted. In cooking, much is left to the intelligence of the cook.