73 POULTRY. without blackening, and wash thoroughly, passing^ a stream of water again and again through the inside. Boiled fowls must be very neatly trussed, as they have small aid from skewers;.and nothing can be more indecorous than to see unfortunates on a dinner table— Whose dying limbs no decent hands composed! Put them on with plenty of water, a little warmed, and in a floured cloth if you like. Having, as usual, skimmed very carefully, simmer by the side of the fire from thirty-five minutes to an hour and a half, according to the age and size of the fowl. A small tureen of very good barley or rice broth, seasoned with shred parsley and young onions, may be made at the same time, if a shank^ or small cutlets of neck of mutton be added ; which last may be frugally served in the broth. Some good cooks put fresh suet and slices of peeled lemon to boil with fowls if lean, but larding is better. "White-legged fowls are most worthy of attention, whether for eating or appearance. The St Ronan's sauce for fowls was either the national " drappit egg," egg-sauce, parsley and butter, or, if the fowls were of a dark complexion, liver-sauce, as a veil of their din- giness. Touchwood chose celery-sauce for fowls, and oyster- sauce for turkey; Jekyl preferred lemon-sauce, and for boiled turkey maccaroni in white sauce served in the dish. The best stuffing for poultry was the cause of many disputes. Meg long stood out for sweet stuffing for her turkeys, orthodox apple-sauce for her goose, and a sweet pudding in the bosom of her sucking pig. After a feud, which lasted three days, the belligerents came to a treaty on the old basis of the uti possidetis ; though the best stuffing for boiled or roasted poultry or veal was agreed to be this,— great dinners and numerous dishes were seldom required. So plump, so white, so tender were the fowls, whether boiled or roasted, and the chickens, whether hrandered, or dressed as howtowdie or as Friar s Chicken^ that Touchwood, so tenacious on other points of the art, gave up this department entirely to Meg herself, reserving only some practical directions for curried fowls and the feeding and fattening of young poultry, which will be found in another section of this erudite work. " Take the fattest and youngest eerocks'' (yearlings), said Meg, " and the whitest,—for a white, clear skin is a good sign, whether of beast or body." D