SAUSAGT.S. 333 in bouillon for three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, parsley, and young onions; when cold, serve upon a napkin. 547. Smoked Scotch-Sausages^ to keep and eat cold.—Salt a piece of beef for two days, and mince it with suet. Sea- son it highly with pepper, salt, onion, or eschalot. Fill a large well-cleaned ox-gut, plait it in links, and hang the sausage in the chimney to dry or smoke.* Boil it as wanted, either a single link or altogether. No onion, if to keep, 548. Common Beef-Sausages.—These are made of minced beef, with seasonings, and a proportion of suet. The crumb of a penny-loaf, soaked in water, is allowed to every three pounds of meat, before filling the skins. 549. Savaloys.—Take a piece of tender pork, free from skin and gristles, and salt it with common salt and a little saltpetre. In two or three days mince it, and season with pepper, chopped sage, and a little grated bread. Fill the gut, and bake the savaloys for a half-hour in a moderate oven. If to be eaten cold, let the meat lie a day or two longer in the salt.—Ohs. Sausage-meat may be broiled in a veal-caul, as a cake, first pressing it to a flat shape. It may be reddened with a little saltpetre. If to be used imme- diately, oysters, mushrooms, etc., may be put to sausages to heighten the flavour. See Boudins, French Cookery. 549^. Roll of Beef Veal, or Lamb.—Mince finely or beat from two to three pounds of the lean of juicy beef, with either a pound of good fresh streaky bacon or beef-suet. Season rather highly with salt, pepper, nutmeg, the grated peel of a lemon, a small teaspoonful of minced thyme, and a minced eschalot. Mix thoroughly well. Koll up in good shape ; wrap in double folds of buttered paper; cover with water paste as in roasting venison, and bake for two hours. For lamb or veal use bacon always; and mushrooms will be found an improvement. Uncase, and serve with a sauce suitable to the meat employed, as cucumber or tomata with lamb. * Some of these sausages used to be made when a Mart was killed: they formed an excellent article of supply for the hill, the moor, or the boat; and in the Hebrides and remote parts of the Highlands they still hold an honoured place in the wide open smoky chimney. Bologna-sausages labour under the calumnious imputation of being made of asses' flesh. It is said the celebrated Fetter-Lane sausages owed their flavour and fame to sweet basil.