156 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GKAVIES. tureen, and serve the soup, lifting it carefully. Some cooks put a glass of Madeira into it.—Ohs, This soup is sometimes partly made of sweet cream, or milk thickened with rice- flour, and butter instead of stock ; but the mixture of milk with fish or meat is less relished every day. The meat of whitings or small haddocks is sometimes substituted for half the lobsters, where this fish is expensive. This soup is often thickened with rice-flour only. Wine is a good deal em- ployed by the French in the composition of fish- soups; the rough and dry wines suit some tastes better than cream. In like manner, cider, very mild ale, or beer, is sometimes employed in this country in making fish-soups. Another Lobster-Soup.—Make a good stock of a piece of beef, a slice of ham, and some butter, a large Portugal onion sliced, pepper, and any fish and lobster trimming you have. Strain the neck, pulping the onions; pound the spawn and body of the lobster as above, and stir it into the soup. Mix it smoothly with the stock. Season with cayenne and white pepper,—a glass of sherry, if you like; boil up and skim, and add the cut bits of the tail and claws as directed above. Simmer for five minutes. 102. Oyster-Soup. Have two quarts of a strong clear stock, whether of fish or meat: we prefer it of veal. Add to it the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs, and the hard part and beards of a quart of fresh, juicy oysters, previously well pounded in a mortar. Simmer for a half hour, and strain it into a fresh stew-pan, in which have the quart of oysters—or what will allow a dozen, if small or divided, to each half pint — cleared from the beards, and very nicely washed from shells and sand. Season with mace and cayenne, and let the oysters simmer for eight minutes, when the yolks of three eggs well beat may be stirred into a little of the cool soup, and gradually mixed with the whole quantity, drawing aside the stew-pan, and constantly stirring, lest the eggs curdle. When smooth and thick, serve in a tureen, and still keep stirring the soup to prevent curdling. Any other flavour that is relished may be given to this luscious soup. We like lemon: mustard and vinegar are used, and tarragon or garlic, for those who relish foreign cookery.