CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 304 456. To Dress a Calfs Head 'plain,—Wash it and soak it in hot water that it may blanch. Take out the brains, arid cut away the black part of the eyes. Boil it in plenty of cold water, and some salt to throw up the scum. KSimmer it gently for an hour and a half or more. Take up the head, cut out the tongue; score the head (but not deeply) in diamonds; brush it with beat egg, and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and No. 334, 335 seasonings. Stick a few bits of butter over it, and brown the head in a Dutch oven. Meanwhile, wash, scald, parboil, and skin the brains, and chop them up with parsley and sage (first par- boiled and chopped fine), white pepper and salt. Stir this into hot melted butter. Add the squeeze of a lemon, or a little lemon-pickle, a particle of cayenne, and a minced eschalot. Skin the tongue, and serve the brains dressed as above directed, around it, or as a smaller dish to accompany the calf's head. Serve also parsley and butter-sauce. Curled slices of toasted bacon, a piece of ham or bacon, a pig's cheek, or sausage, are indispensable with calfs head, even when highly dressed.—See No. 92. 457. Calfs or LamUs Head and Ragout^ a Scotch Dish.— Having parboiled a fat head as above, cut down the one- half of it, with the skinned tongue, the palate, etc., into dice and other neatly-shaped pieces. Trim and brush the other half with egg, and strew crumbs and chopped parsley over it, and set it to bake before the fire or in the oven, sticking butter over it, and strewing it with more crumbs. Mean- while stew the hash in a little good veal-broth, jelly of cow- heels, or any rich fresh stock you have: season this with mixed spices, Nos. 334, 335, the grate and juice of a lemon, mace, or whatever seasoning is most approved. Dish the ragout, and place the baked cheek upon it. Garnish with brain-cakes and forcemeat-balls, or fried sippets, or merely with slices of the fried liver.—0^5, Pickled oysters, catsup, etc., may be added to this ragout, which may, at the discre- tion of the cook, be made either white or brown. This we conceive the best way of dressing a calfs head; though a hash or fricassee on the second day must, by the experienced gourmand, be considered as preferable to any other mode of cookery, and only objectionable from not making so im- portant an addition to the appearance of the table as the full-dressed head. If it be a lamb's head, brown it all: the