402 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. clear and bright; then strain the liquor from the meat, take the sinewy part of the meat, and lay it aside till your soup is ready to serve up. Cut the sinews about an inch long. Have some vegetables cut, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, cabbage shred small, and green pease, when to be had. Blanch the whole in boiling water for ten minutes. Drain and put them into the soup, and boil till quite tender. Serve up the sinews in the tureen with the soup. Season the soup with salt and pepper before dishing it.—0^5. Herbs may be used to flavour these soups; and white pease (melters) are by many thought an improvement. Both are cheap and excellent family-dishes. It must be remembered that our bullocks were of small size in former times; one leg would now be heavier than two of those days. 731. Plain Scottish Fish aud Sauce^ a Maigre Dish.—This IS, in fact, just a good fish-soup; and for all such soups the fish must be very fresh. Make a stock of the skins, heads, points of the tails, bones, fins, etc., or where fish are cheap, cut down one or two to help the stock. Boil green onions, parsley, and chives in this, and some whole pepper. When all the substance is obtained, strain it. Thicken with butter kneaded in browned flour, but only to the consistence of a soup, and put in the fish (generally small haddocks), cut in three or divided. Boil the fish ten minutes, add catsup, and serve them in the sauce, in a tureen or soup-dish. See Nos. 134 and 149. This is a popular preparation along all the eastern coasts of Scotland, where fine haddocks are got quite fresh. 732. Scottish Fish and Sauce, a favourite Family-dish.— Proceed as above to make a stock; or use broth of meat, if wanted rich, though plenty of butter kneaded in browned flour will make this rich enough. The fish cut in pieces may be browned in the fryingpan, before boiling, for ten minutes in the sauce. Season highly with mixed spices and a half-cupful of catsup. This dish may be enriched with oysters, shrimps, or mussels prepared; or with fish farce- balls. The sauce or soup should be rather thicker than in the former receipt. Serve as above. For modern taste the fish may be filleted, flour left out, a glass of sherry, and a few drops of browning. See Skate-Soup, 733. Friar's C4^c^e?^.—Make a clear stock of veal or