104 CHAP. III.—ROASTING. 35. To Roast Hare, Fawn, or Kid. A HARE will keep from a fortnight to three weeks, if pro- perly managed; and is seldom fit of roasting before eight days, though for soup it should be used nearly as soon as killed. A hare keeps best when not open for some days; and the vent and mouth may be tied, to prevent the air from hastening the process of putrefaction. When kept four days in this state (if the object is to keep it as long as possible) it may be paunched, and the heart and liver taken out and scalded. Wash and soak it in warm water when to be dressed, changing the water several times. Make a little slit in the neck, and in every part where the blood has gathered to let it out. Drip, dry, and truss it. An old hare is not fit for roasting. Even a young hare makes but a dry roast; so that a rich and relishing stuffing is a sine qua non when dressing it in this manner.—For stuffing^—Take the grated crumb of a pennyloaf, a quarter of a pound of beef suet, or three ounces of marrow, a small quantity of minced parsley and eschalot, a boned anchovy,* a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the same quantity of nutmeg; salt and pepper to taste, a little cayenne, and the liver parboiled and chopped, if in a sound state,—and no liver should be used if unsound. Mix the ingredients with the yolk of an egg, and the crumbs soaked in a very little red wine. Put this into the hare, and sew it closely up. Baste well with plenty of butter for three quarters of an hour; then drain the dripping-pan into a basin; and baste with cream and yolk of egg well beat, and flour lightly. Hare will take from an hour and a half to two hours. For sauce^—Venison- sauce, or the drippings of the hare mixed with cream, or with claret, a squeeze of a lemon, some thin slices of bread, and a bit of fresh butter, boiled up with the skimmed drippings strained and highly seasoned; also currant jelly. (See Hashed Hare^ Hare Collops^ Made-Dishes of Hare, etc.)—Obs, It is good practice to take out the back and thigh bones when the cook is dexterous in boning. In France a roasted hare is always larded on the back; but the French seldom roast this dr?/ animal from choice.—For * We do not like anchovy to meat-dishes ourselves, but tolerate it as a relish admired by some contemporary authorities.