592 CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 1214. Another loay.—Dip them in a solution of gum-arabic, and pack in dry pulverized charcoal. 1215. To run Honey.—Gently loosen the combs. Separate the best pieces to keep and serve in the comb, if wished, as honey always looks best in the comb. If not, place the combs singly on open wire frames, laid over a jar, opposite the fire, but not so near as to melt the wax (an open corn-sieve will be a good substitute for a frame). Cut the pieces of comb with a long knife twice horizontally; then slice them down as it were into chequers, to permit the honey to flow. When drained completely on one side, turn over the other. The liquid honey is then to be run through a coarse jelly-bag, made of the kind of stuff used in dairies, and hooked on a stand in the usual manner of running jellies ; the jar placed under the bag, when full, must be closely bunged up. The pure or virgin combs being thus disposed of, the inferior sort are to be treated in the same manner, and the refuse, obtained by wringing the bags and scraping the frames and jars, may be turned to account in vinegar, adding double its weight of water; or with hog's lard as a paste for chapped hands.— Honeycomb^ to keep entire. The finest pieces are selected, handled as gently as possible, papered and kept in a wide jar, set aslant, that the thin may drop ofi", and covered. N.B.—Those who have even but three or four hives would do well to consult Loudon's Gardener's Dictionary, which contains the sub- stance of all that is known on the subject of bees, whether theoretically or practically. There are newer works, but none better. CHAPTER IV. A SELECTIOlf OF USEFUL MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS FOR CLEANING AND PRESERVING FURNITURE, CLOTHES, ETC. 1216. To Scour Carpets.—Dust the carpet well, and to do so, if large, pick it asunder into two or more pieces. The places most worn and faded can thus be turned in making up. Have them first well rinsed, in running water, if possible, and then scoured in a ley made of boiled soap. Repeat this till the breadths are clean. Next rinse them again, and last of all put them into a tub of clean water in which a large tablespoonful of oil of vitriol is mixed, which will brighten the colours and keep them from running. Choose a dry windy day to scour carpets, as remaining long wet will injure the colours. If there are any greasy spots, let them be rubbed with soft or boiled soap before the carpet is wet. Hearth-rugs are done in the same way.— Obs. Carpets may be washed stretched on a clean floor, using sponge and soap ley, and afterwards rinsed and dried. Nail them tightly out when again laid down. They may also be scoured with a bullock's gall mixed in a pail of water, or with fuller's earth, and then be rinsed. Brushes may be used with advantage.