575 CURING HAMS. pounds each, take a pound of moist sugar, a pound of salt, and two ounces of saltpetre. Mix and rub the hams well with it; put them in a trough, and treat as other hams : but, in three days, pour a bottle of good vinegar over them. They will be ready in a month, when dry as usual. " This," says the venerable chef of Crockford's, " is superior to a West- phalia ham.'' We are sure that, if smoked, it is better cured. A German Receipt for Hams.—The hams are cured, as with us, at a temperate season ; from the middle of October to the first of April. Place them in proper deep troughs; cover over with layers of salt, and a few laurel-leaves. In five days, drain and place them in a clean tub. Cover with a strong brine. Let them lie thus for three weeks; then soak in spring-water for twelve hours. Expose them to the smoke of juniper for three weeks. Jambon de Bastogne.—This ham was so much admired by Mr Dadley Costello, when travelling in the Ardennes, that he begged the receipt from the Chef at Dinant. The ham is cured in a brine of salt, saltpetre, and aromatic herbs, viz.:— A few bay-leaves, wild thyme, a handful of juniper-berries, and a little garlic. It is steeped for about six weeks, and then dried in the smoke of the chimney, over a fire of wood. When wanted for dressing, it is buried in the ground for twenty-four hours, and then boiled, with the addition of the same aromatic herbs in the water. After boiling, the bone is taken out, and the ham is pressed under a heavy weight. 1184. Beauvilliers' Hams.—Make a pickle with water and wine-lees to suit the size or number of hams and flitches, and add all sorts of sweet herbs; as sage, basil, thyme, bay, juniper-berries, salt, and saltpetre. Steep this for some days, and strain, and put in the meat. Let the hams lie a month; drain, wipe, and smoke them. When smoked and dry, rub with wine and vinegar to keep off flies. Tongues of hogs may be cured in the same pickle, and dried and smoked in a thin cloth. They are cooked in small wine and water, with herbs, and served cold. [If the hams were first rubbed with salt, and drained for a day or two, the receipt would be ex- cellent.—Edit.'] 1185. General Easy Receipt for curing hams or bacon of fourteen pounds weight, or in the proportion:—One ounce of saltpetre, three-quarters of a pound of brown sugar, five