219 POTATOES. tliem. Tliey are best boiled with hoiling water and salt poured over them, and may be buttered. 217. Roasted Potatoes.—This is perhaps the nicest mode of plainly cooking this root. Let the potatoes be rather large, of equal size, and well scrubbed; for the browned skin of a roasted potato is the better part of it. They must be slowly done before the fire, or in an American oven, or buried in wood or turf ashes. Serve with cold salt butter scooped, and roasted onions, 218. Potatoes are Fried or Broiled after being boiled, peeled, and sliced cold. Broil on a clear fire, ox fry in plenty of good dripping. They may be dressed as potato-fritters^ by flouring the slices, dipping them in egg and crumbs, and frying. These form an agreeable accompaniment to steaks, sausages, and pickled or red herrings, with which they may be served. Large potatoes, cut neatly in ringlet slices and browned, form a suitable garnish to sausages, pork-chops, etc. The French fry sliced potatoes in goose-dripping, which has a very strong gout; but before serving, drain them on a sieve before the fire. See French Cookery of Potatoes^ No. 705. 219. To Mash Potatoes.* Wash and pare them, cut out all the eyes and specks, boil them with plenty <)f salt, pour off the water, and put them over the fire to dry for a minute. Add butter, salt, and a little milk (the less the better, unless they are to be eaten with milk, as it makes them moist and doughy). Mash them smooth, with the Scottish implement called a potato-beetle, or with a beater, and dish neatly; score in diamond or sip- pets, and brown them before the fire. They are also pressed in shapes, and rock-work made by pressing more mash through a colander, upon the roughly heaped-up mash before browning. After the month of March, potatoes ought al- ways to be pared before boiling, whether they are to be mashed or served whole. * There is an admirable receipt for gusty cJiapptt {L e. mashed) potatoes in an early volume of Blackwood's Magazine, the work which, in the mysteries of Comus, wont to take the lead of all the periodicals of the day. The receipt to which we allude is after the practice of the pastoral inhabi- tants of Ettrick, Yarrow, and Teviotdale. Before calling the ^otato-heetle into operation, salt, pepper, and a raw onion, finely shred, are sprinkled over the potatoes, with a good dash of sweet milk. The addition of the onion is here the Ihur de Maitre.