148 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. rice-flour well mixed, and heat the soup, adding white pepper and cayenne to taste, and a head of celery sliced. The ragout or hash is made by cutting into mouthfuls the best parts of the head and cow-heel, seasoning highly with mixed spices, a little walnut-catsup, and a teaspoonful of made-mustard, with a pint and a half of the clear stock of the head, saved for this purpose when the soup is strained. —Ohs. Soy, forcemeat balls, wine, etc., are all ordered for this ragout in some approved books of cookery; but we consider such expensive ingredients quite out of place in a preparation which is cheap, good, and savoury, but never can be delicate. The meat that remains may either be eaten as a plain stew, added to the soup, or else potted in a mould, in the Scotch fashion, and used either turned out cold, or heated, as stew-soup. 92. Calf's-head Soup. Rub the half of a large head with salt, soak it for some hours, and, when thoroughly clean, put it on with as much fresh water or fresh pot-liquor as will cover it, and with an onion stuck with cloves, and some parsley. When well skimmed and boiled for an hour, take out the head and strain the soup. Cut the head into nice mouthfuls, about two inches long and one thick, and dress these as a ragout, or put them to stew in the soup. Season with white pepper, mace, and herbs. Curry-powder, and other fit seasonings make this very good Mullagatawny.—See Dressed Calf's Head, Nos. 83 and 84. 93. A Pepper Pot * This is understood to be a sort of clear larder, or wash- day's family dinner-dish, composed of all sorts of shreds and patches. It ought properly, if fine cookery is sought, to be an Olio, composed of a due admixture of meat, fish, fowl, vegetables, and roots. To three quarts of water put a couple of pounds, cut, of whatever vegetables are plentiful (a good proportion being onions), and a couple of pounds of mutton-scrag cut into three or four pieces; or a fowl, or a piece of veal, or lean bacon, and a little rice. Skim it; * *' Where every thing that every soldier got, Fowl, bacon, cabbage, mutton, and what not, Was thrown into one bank, and went to pot."