SCOTCH BARLEY-BROTII. 153 99. Scotch Barley-Broth, with Boiled Mutton or Beef, Served as Bouilli Ordinaire, To from three to six pounds of beef, or mutton, according to the quantity of soup wanted, put cold water in the pro- portion of a quart to the pound,—a quarter-pound of Scotch barley, or more or less as may suit the meat and the water, and some salt, unless the meat is already slightly salted. To this put a large breakfast-cupful of soaked white or split pease, unless in the season when fresh green pease are to be had cheap, a larger quantity of which must be put in with the other vegetables, using less barley. Skim very carefully as long as any scum rises; then draw aside the pot, and let the broth simmer slowly for an hour, at which time put to it two young carrots and turnips cut in dice, and two or three onions sliced. Five minutes before the broth is ready, add a little parsley, picked and chopped. The white part of three small leeks may be used instead of the onions, and a head of celery sliced, instead of the parsley seasoning; celery requires longer boiling. For beef-broth a small quantity of greens roughly shred, and the best part of four or five small leeks cut in inch lengths, are better suited than turnip, carrot, and parsley, which are more adapted to mutton. If there is danger of the meat being overdone before the broth is properly lithed^ i. e, thickened by boiling, it may be taken up, covered for half an hour, and returned into the pot to heat through before it is dished. Garnish the bouilli with carrot and turnip boiled in the broth, and divided; or pour over it caper-sauce, or parsley and butter, or a sauce made of pickled cucumbers, or nasturtiums, heated in melted butter, or in a little clear broth, with a teaspoonful of made- mustard and another of vinegar. Parsley, parboiled for two minutes and minced, may also be strewed over bouilli,—or a sprinkling of boiled carrot cut in very small dice or straws. Obs. This is the comfortable Pot au-feu of Scotland, which still furnishes the Manse and the Farmhouse dinner, and the " Pot-luck" of homely and hearty old-world hospitality. The pieces of fresh beef best adapted for barley-broth are the shin, the brisket, the flank, and the veiny piece,—of mutton, the neck, the ribs, and the knuckle. In some parts of the " Land of Kail," broth made of fresh beef would scarcely be tolerated,—the meat not at all; and unquestionably the brisket or flank, when salted for a week, makes excellent broth, while the meat eats better. Many, however, prefer fresh meat. An economical way of managing where beef is salted for winter provision, is to boil a piece of fresh an4. a piece of salt meat together, G 2