180 CHAP. VII.—FISH. 138. To Dress Slices of Halibut, Ling, or Tusk,— A Maigre Dish. Fry the fillets in butter, and then stew them in a little fish-stock, seasoned with parsley and celery. Add a piece of butter rolled in flour, white pepper, mace, a little lemon- peel, and a squeeze of lemon-juice ; or use a curry-sauce. 139. Herrings and Mackerel. Choose soft roe fresh mackerel. When gently boiled for from twelve to twenty minutes according to their size, dish on a napkin, with the boiled roe. Serve fennel-sauce, or a mixture of fennel and parsley ; more commonly and better, melted butter, or Maitre Hotel sauce. They may be fried or broiled, either split or whole, sprinkled or stuffed with herbs chopped and crumbed, and seasoned with pepper and salt; or collared^ by splitting them, taking out the bones, seasoning with mixed spices, rolling up and baking them in a slow oven. Herrings or mackerel are very good baked, and will keep a week. Clean, and season them highly with salt and mixed spices. Pack them neatly, heads and tails^ in a deep dish. Fill up with vinegar, and stick a little butter over them. Tie them closely up with several folds of paper, and bake them. They eat very well cold, or will warm up in their own liquor. For pickling highly, bay- leaves, and more vinegar and spices, may be employed, and the fish may be either baked or boiled ;—boil up the pickle, and when cold pour it over them, as directed for salmon, p. 166.—The French cook mackerel with fine herbs, champagne, and butter. Nor in London are the days quite gone by,— " When Mackerel seem'd delightful to their eyes, Though dress'd with incoherent gooseberries." 139 . Fresh Herrings as Dressed at Inveraray, And the Highland Sea-Lochs, The best herrings are obtained in these localities almost alive. Cut off the heads, fins, and tails; scale, gut, and wash them. Split and bone them or not, dust the inside with pepper and fine salt. Place two herrings flat together, the backs outmost, and dip in toasted oatmeal and fry them for seven minutes. Serve hot. They are delicious ; and, in the summer, add much to the breakfasts in the steamers