371 STUFFED pig's FACE. with ethusiasm of the Jamhon d la Broche^ " Un tel roti est tres superieure a tous ceux que la boucherie, la basse-cour, la poulailler, les forets, les plaines, les etangs, et les mers pouvaient nous ofFrir. Heureux celui qui peut une fois en sa vie manger un jamhon a la hrocJie ! II ne plus rien a re- gretter des sensualites de ce bas monde!" This dish, even in France, would cost ten crowns.—See Nos. 11 and 12. 658. Hure de Cochon, or Pig's Face Stuffed,—Kd^Q the head as large as you can, by cutting down to the shoulders; the neck is prime. Singe it carefully. Put a red-hot poker into the ears. Clean and carefully bone the head without breaking the skin. Rub it with salt, and pour boiled cold brine over it, with a large handful of chopped juniper-berries, a few bruised cloves, and four bay-leaves, with thyme, basil, sage, a head of garlic bruised, and a quarter-ounce of salt- petre pounded. Let the head steep in this for ten days, and turn it and rub it often. Then wipe, drain, and dry it, and make a forcemeat for it thus:—Take equal quantities of un- dressed ham, and breast of bacon. Season this highly with cooks' pepper, and fine spices, if you choose. Pound this meat very smooth, and mix with it some seasoned lard, pars- ley, and young onions, finely minced. Prove the quality of the forcemeat as directed at No. 6922. Improve it where deficient. Spread it equally over the head. Roll up, and sew it, bind in a cloth, and stew it in a braise made of any trimmings and seasonings left, with stock enough to cover it. It will take nearly four hours to cook; and will be still richer if larded before it is stufi'ed. Pierce it with a larding- pin; if the pin enters easily it is done. When cool, take off the binding cloth. Trim the ends of the collared head, and serve it on a napkin.—Ohs, This dish is well worth the attention of the gourmand and of the country housekeeper. It will keep a long while, and the liquor will make a savoury pease-soup ; boil to d^glaze^ or braise vegetables. Independ- ently of the stufiing, this French mode of curing pig's face is excellent. It is, besides, exactly the Hure de sanglier of the great Careme, when stewed in brandied Madeira, and de- corated en galantine. See Pig's Cheeky National Dishes^ No. 741. 659. To Dress Cold Roast Pig a la Bechamel or in white Sauce,—Carve what remains of the pig into neat pieces, and