PRESERVED FRUIT. 497 tliem heads downmost, and put pounded sugar to the red water, with the rind of a lemon, and boil till it jellies. Strain it, and, when clear and cold, scoop it up neatly with a teaspoon, and lay it among the apples in heaps, like roughed calfs-feet jelly. Garnish with sprigs of myrtle, rings of lemond-rind, etc. Melted isinglass may be added, if the jelly is too weak. 987. Oranges in Sugar^ a pretty little Dish,—Peel four or five oranges: carefully remove all the scurf and thready parts. Cut them in round slices, take out seeds, and dress them in a small glass dish in hot syrup. Garnish with sprigs of myrtle. 988. To Presei^ve Apricots.—Always choose the finest fruit for preserving. Stone and pare the apricots, keeping them as entire as possible. Take above their own weight of pounded sugar, and strew it over them for a night, laying the slit part upmost to keep in the juices of the fruit. Break the stones, and blanch what are good of the kernels. Sim- mer gently, till the fruit looks transparent. Add the ker- nels ; skim carefully, and lift out the fruit into pots, pour the syrup and kernels over them, and paper when cold : —Or they may be preserved in apple-jelly; or greened, by putting a bit of alum into the water in which they are alternately scalded and cooled, till they take the desired colour. We do not recommend this. Peaches and green- gages are i^vQsevyed. as above.—Obs. Sugar for preserved fruit must be boiled to the second or third degree. The fruits should be looked at for the first month, and, if needful, the syrup may be boiled up, allowed to cool, and again poured over them.—See No. 974. 989. Magnum Bonum and other fine Plums.—Do them as directed for apricots, and be sure that the syrup is well clarified and well skimmed, and that the first simmering is slow and short, or else, instead of looking clear and plump, the fruit will shrink and shrivel in spite of whatever may be afterwards done to plump it.— Ohs. The Imperatrice and the Winesour are among the finest preserving plums. 990. To Preserve Bed Gooseberries.—Clip ofi" the top of each berry, and take weight for weight of fruit and sugar. Clarify the sugar, and put the fruit to it, having made a slit with a needle in each berry, to let the sugar penetrate the