CHAP. III.—MAKING CHEESE. 590 to add two ounces of saltpetre or the salt of nitre, and half a bottle of the vinegar of wine. This mixture must be allowed to remain for about three weeks, when it is put into bottles. The bottles must be corked with great care, the influence of the air being pernicious to the rennet. When the rennet, thus prepared, is poured into the milk, it must be stirred very gently in a plain unpainted wooden trough, without the addition of warm water. It is not advisable to add warm water, unless when the milk comes from very distant pasturage, or when, on account of the coldness of the weather, the heat necessary for promoting the operation of the rennet is wanting. It is, however, still preferable to heat the trough directly by means of fire, as is the custom in Switzerland, where they heat the copper basins employed for this purpose. In those farms where the pasture is very rich, it is proper to add a little warm water to the milk. Particular care must he taken not to mix portions of milk loliich have heen drawn upon dif- ferent days^ or even at separate hours of the same day^ as cheeses made in this manner are always of a very inferior flavour. When, by means of gentle and regular agitation, the different parts of the milk begin to separate, and when the whey is skimmed off, the curd must be kneaded with great care, in order that the large and small particles may not be put together confusedly in the frame, and that they may be as small and as equal in size as possible. The curd must then be wrapped in a thin linen cloth, of a fine but strong texture, and put into the frame. The frames used by M. Van Bell are different from those usually employed, the sides being vertical. The lids ought to be made to fit exactly. Th3 walls of these frames must be pierced with small holes, through which the whey will exude If any diffi- culty be found in taking the cheese fi'om the frame, it will be sufficient to blow into those apertures, as in this way the tension of the air will be removed, and the cheese easily taken out. The frame ought to be placed upon a pedestal, near the press, in order that they may be easily put beneath it. The cheese, with its cloth, ought to be repeatedly returned to the frame, and particularly at the commence- ment of the pressure. When the cheese is placed under the press, the pressure must at first be ligbt, and afterwards increased by slow degrees. Care must be taken that the pillars of the windlass-press be vertical; and, if the lever-press be used, that the pressure may arise exactly on the centre. With regard to the duration of the pres- sure, M. Van Bell's method differs entirely from that of the English, who leave the cheese under the press for a long period, sometimes even for three days, whereas M. Van Bell does not allow it to remain even so long as is the custom in Holland. He diminishes the dura- tion of the pressure according to the warmth of the temperature, in order that he may be able to put the cheese more speedily into pickle. In truth, nothing produces the putrefaction of the cheese so easily as the acetous fermentation of the milk. Now, it is conceived that this fermentation is only increased by allowing the cheese to remain long in the press, especially during warm weather; when, by the method of M. Van Bell, the curd frees itself rapidly and effectually from the whey, and the cheese may be sooner put into the pickle, which acts in such a way as to prevent the fermentation. When the cheeses are removed from the pickle, they must be placed upon boards in the