291 OF BEEF. only season with nutmeg and mace, as well as the ingredients mentioned there.—Read Ohs,^ Chap. Salting. 414. Fillet of Beef with Madeira^ a receipt hy Beauvilliers. —Take a nice fat fillet of beef: cut away all fibres, skins, etc., and lard it equally all over. Line a stewpan with sliced carrots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. Strew four ounces of rasped lard over them, and place the fillet rolled up on this. Pour a half bottle of Madeira over it, as much good stock, and a little salt. Cover with three rounds of buttered paper, and let there be a very slow fire under, with embers over the lid. When nearly dressed, strain the gravy; and what will not go through a fine sieve return to nourish the fillet, and keep it moist Reduce the strained gravy, adding to it a large spoonful of Espagnole (see No. 585) till it comes to the consistence of glaze. Drain and glaze the fillet. Season the gravy that remains,—put a bit of butter to it, and pour it round the dished meat. 415. To Press Beef.—Take the bone« from the brisket or flank, or thin part of the ribs. Salt and season it well with sugar and mixed spices, and let it lie a week; then boil till tender, and press the meat under a heavy weight till cold, when it will either cut in slices or do for sandwiches.—See No. 392, 416. A Porker's and a Calf's Head may be pressed or collared. A porker^s head must be previously salted; for a calf s head the same seasonings are used as when the head is hashed.—See No. 892. 417. Made-Dishes of Beef that has been Dressed. Few persons, come to the years of eating discretion, like cold unsalted meat; and though the days are quite gone by when the hospitality of the landlord was measured by the size of the joint, it still happens that where a table affords any variety of dishes, a good deal of meat will be left cold. The invention of the culinary artist is thus put on the rack for new forms and modes of dressing, and new names for various dishes which are intrinsically the same. The most common and the best methods of dressing cold roast-beef, are broiling, heating in the Dutch oven, or hashing. It is served with sippets, pickles, and in many other ways.