413 FRICANDELLE MULLAGATAWNY. Hand-book of Spain'' will be found as many Spanisli receipts as any one cares for. 755. China Chtlo,—Mince a pound and a half of good mutton and four ounces of mutton-suet. Stew this in stock or with butter, and add a pint of green pease, young onions, and a little shred lettuce. Skim off the fat. Season with salt, cayenne, and white pepper. Heap boiled rice round a shallow soup-dish, and serve the stew or chilo in the middle. —Obs. Veal or fowl may be dressed as above. A little curry- powder may be added to the seasoning. The zest of car- rots, cut in very small cubes, will supply the place of pease in winter; so will celery. 756. Frkandelle.—Take one pound of the lean of a leg of veal, half a pound of veal-suet, four rusks soaked in milk, four eggs (leaving out two whites), some onions, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; chop all together very fine, and make three balls of it, which you must drop into boil- ing water, and boil four minutes. Make a gravy from the skin, bones, etc. Egg, crumb, and fry the balls a light brown in butter, and stew them half an hour in this gravy. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon; thicken the sauce with butter roiled in flour, if too thin. It ought to be very thick.—{From a Correspondent.) Obs. This may be made of dressed beef, or of fowl, or game; it may also be baked in a mould turned out, and served on a napkin.—See No. 692. 757. Mullagatawny^ or Curry-Soup as made in India.— Have ready pounded and sifted an ounce of coriander-seeds, the third of an ounce of cassia, three drachms of black and two of cayenne pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of China turmeric; mix them well. This quantity will do either for two chickens, a large fowl, or three pounds of meat. Cut down the meat in small pieces, and let it boil slowly for a half-hour in two quarts of water; then put to it four onions, and three cloves of garlic shred and fried in two ounces of butter. Mix down the seasonings with a little of the broth and rice-flour, and strain them into the stewpan, which must simmer till the soup is smooth and thick as cream. When it is within five minutes of being finished, add the juice of a lemon, or citric acid in the same proportion. Serve the meat and soup in a tureen; and boiled Patna rice in a hot water dish. This is a good plain curry-soup; but