THE SPANISH PUCHERO GERMAN SAUER CROUT. 415 like green vegetables in curries, though they are sometimes used. Mushrooms are an enrichment, celery is good, and onion indispensable. Curry-powder excepted, this is the French Gibelottes of rabbit. 759. The Spanish Puchero,—Cut down as for a family curry, three pounds of shin of beef, a half-pound of salt pork, a fowl, with the gizzard and liver; a turnip and car- rot cut down; three onions, and a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, a high seasoning of black pepper, and salt to taste. Add the small pease called Garhanzas (if you can get them), or substitute cooked chestnuts: stew very slowly in three pints of water. This, we fear, is but a poor imita- tion of the genuine Puchero^ and yet no bad dish. 760. The Garbure^ a Dish of the North of Europe.—Take a fresh hock of ham, a knuckle of veal, and six pounds of the flank piece of beef well beat. Sweat this over a slow fire, with a bunch of parsley, three onions stuck with cloves, and three carrots, putting in a pint of stock or water at the first. When the meat is well heated, and the juices drawn out, add five or six pints of stock or water, and stew the whole slowly for two hours. Have some firm white cabbages cleaned, quartered, and blanched, and braise them between layers of bacon with a little broth till rich and mellow, when they must be put to the broth; now add ten small sausages, • or the legs of salted geese previously dressed. Toast slices of rye-bread (or brown bread as a substitute), and on a bed of this lay the cabbage, drained of fat, with the ham above it in the middle, and the sausages or geese-legs round it. Serve the" broth separately as a soup. Make the quantities to suit, as in all receipts, but the above are the proportions. 761. German Onion-Beef or Zwiebel Fleisch.—Put six pounds of the thin flank (skinned if you choose) to two quarts of water or weak fresh broth; stew it an hour in a close stewpan. Add to it the thin rind of two lemons, a quarter-ounce of bruised cloves, two bay-leaves, one dozen black and two dozen Jamaica peppercorns, in a spice-bag, and salt; stew a half-hour. Add a dozen large sliced onions, and stew till they are tender. Skim off the fat, and thicken the gravy. Boil up, season and dish, taking out the pepper, rinds, and bay-leaves. 762. German Sauer Croutj a substitute for Potatoes.—