202 CHAP, VII. FISH. 185. To Make a Store Fish-Sauce.* To an Englisli pint of red port (Burgundy or claret is better) add fifteen anchovies, chopped and prepared by steep- ing in vinegar in a close-covered vessel for a week; add to this a stick of horseradish scraped, two onions, and a hand- ful of parsley chopped, a desertspoonful of lemon-thyme stripped of the stalks, two bay-leaves, a nutmeg, and six blades of mace roughly pounded, nine cloves, and a small dessertspoonful of black pepper bruised. Pour over these ingredients a large half-pint of port-wine vinegar, and sim- mer slowly in a silver or nice block-tin saucepan, or earthen pipkin, till the bones of the anchovies are dissolved. Add a few grains of cochineal if the colour is not good. Strain the liquor through a hair-sieve, and, when cold, bottle it for use, securing the vials well with corks and leather. When to be used, shake the vials before pouring out the sauce ;— two tablespoonfuls will impart a high flavour to four ounces of melted butter, in which it must be simmered for a minute before it is served. For a great variety of Fish-sauces^ see the chapter on Sauces ; and for other receipts in Fish^ see French Cookery. 186. To Dress Prawns, from Beauvilliers. Take a pound and a half of prawns ; cover a dish with a large cup or basin reversed, so that a small damask napkin may be raised like an octagon upon it. Cover this with parsley, and dress the prawns on it like a pyramid. 187. John Dory,t—i.e., Jaune d'Oree, This hideous-looking but delicious dish is boiled as tur- bot or brill. Serve with anchovy-sauce or lobster-sauce, and cover lightly with green parsley. Maids are dressed like skate, by boiling or parboiling, and then broiling or frying as in No. 131, and are served with lobster or caper sauce. They may be hung a few days. Brill is dressed * The Cleikum Club were favoured with this original receipt from an intelligent Highland lady, who has contributed several valuable original receipts to this volume. This sauce boasts neither the name of Burgess nor Harvey ; but we would advise those who wish to combine economy with what is healthful and elegant, to make a fair trial of it. -j- Of all Unions, Quin, a rational gourmand^ admired that of " delicate Ann Chovy with rich John Dory.''''