90 CHAP. III.—ROASTING. even »more than in a fowl, to make the bird look plump: be careful, in drawing, to preserve the liver whole, and not to break the intestines. For stuffing^—Take a breakfast-cup- ful of bread finely grated, two ounces of minced beef-suet, or marrow, a little parsley parboiled and finely shred, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel grated, two sprigs of lemon-thyme, shred; a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix the whole well in a mortar, with a couple of eggs. Do not stuff too full; and, with another egg, work up what remains into balls, to be fried and served with the turkey. To this stuffing, parboiled sausage meat may be added, or grated ham, or oysters chopped. (The same stuffing is suitable for a large fowl, and in both cases the meat may be omitted.) Paper the breast. Score the gizzard. Season it highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and dip in melted butter, and then in bread crumbs; cover the gizzard and liver with veal or lamb caul, or buttered paper, and roast them, fixing them under the pinion, and basting liberally. A very large turkey will take nearly as long to roast as a sirloin. These are not the most delicate kind. A moderate-sized turkey will take from an hour and a half to two hours. The fire must be clear and sharp; dredge with flour when laid down. (Fresh butter is always best for basting white meats; but salted butter may be washed.) Keep the turkey far from the fire at first, that the stuffing and breast may be done through, and fifteen minutes before it is finished, remove the paper that the breast may be delicately browned. Sauces^ —Bread-sauce, with gravy in the dish, oyster-sauce, celery- sauce, egg-sauce. Hen turkeys are the most delicate, and Eedgill, " of turkey and wildfowl! Surely, my young friend, you forget yourself." The Doctor, a loyal hearty-dining churchman, had, since the beginning of the French Revolution, seen but too much of this innovating "off-with-his-head" spirit abroad. "There was no knowing," he said, " where its devastations were to stop; it began with anointed kings:"— *' And may safely end with hasted turkeys," rejoined Jekyll ; and he con- tinued—" At all tonish tables, Mr Wintekblossom, though I do not pretend to think better of mankind than my neighbours, it would be but a well-bred stretch of faith, to take for granted that turkey was not goose, nor pigeon grouse, without such testimony as those bloody heads and feathered heels afford. Why, the panache of his own tail-featliers, which my respected grandmother was wont to stick into the rump of her roasted pheasant, or even the surtout of his entire goodly plumage with which our ancestors invested the lordly peacock, was not more barbarous than this absurd fashion." Loud rose the clamour of cooks, scullions, and amateurs, as this new heresy was broached; and the refined Jekyll, if not convinced, was at least silenced.