CHAP. VII.—FISH. IGG butter over it, first seasoning it with allspice, mace, and salt: rub a little of the seasonings on the inside. It must be basted occasionally with what collects in the baking-pan. If the fish is small, or a grilse^ it may be skewered, with the tail turned round to the mouth. A baked salmon, if not too oily, makes a handsome dish, and eats well cold. Oarnishing and sauce the same as for boiled salmon.—Ohs, Many persons think salmon not only lighter but of finer flavour cold than hot. It is, at any rate, too expensive and too good to be lost. Pickle for cold Salmon,—To a quart of the liquor in which the fish was boiled put half an ounce of black pepper and allspice in corns, half a pint of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil this with a bay-leaf or two, and a sprig of lemon-thyme. When cold, pour it over the salmon, which must be kept covered. This pickle will keep the fish good for some days; but if it be necessary to keep it longer, boil up the pickle afresh, adding more vinegar and spice, and when cold pour it again on the fish or use No. 114. 114. Ballyshannon Pickle for Cold Salmon. Vinegar two parts, water one, white wine one. Boil in this salt, pepper, allspice, also at pleasure, mace, cloves, ginger, and horseradish sliced ; when cold pour this over the boiled cold salmon. Read No. 12G. 115. To Kipper, i. e. To Salt and Dry Salmon. The fish must be cut up at the back, cleaned, and scaled, but not washed, and have the bone cut neatly out. Rub with equal proportions of salt and raw sugar, pounded with the size of a nut of saltpetre. Peppers in powder may be added to the salt. Let the fish lie for two days, pressing it with a board on which weights are placed; then hang it up, or, which is much better, smoke it. Lest the folds gather mustiness, it is a good plan, when the fish is hung, N. B.— Very fresh salmon is in most places so expensive an article of luxury, that rarity alone has given it a factitious value with many persons ; for the fish is in reality much more delicate and sapid when ripened for a day or even more. The same thing holds of turbot and cod, though they too are prized for that crimp harsh freshness, which is in truth no recom- mendation in the eating, and often a drain on the purse.—P. T. We decidedly question this.—"W. W.