SALADS. 227 fillets: dip each mushroom in a large spoonful of aspic nearly set (by the ice), and fix them on the border of beetroot and potato : they should appear as if slightly glazed. Within this dressed border pour the Macedoine, prepared as above directed, and cover it with a little Mayonnaise-sauce (No. 266), and then place within the border, as an inner one, small hearts of brilliant lettuces, divided, with a very fine one stuck in the centre; serve immediately The border may be made of hard eggs, cut in four the long way, and stuck to the dish, with aspic ; and small leaves of endive or celery may take the place of lettuce. We give the above, not from any great admiration of its utility in domestic cookery, but to show how elaborately these things are done in France. It is, besides, a specimen of fancy cookery for young ladies. 237. An Italian Salad.—Three hours before dinner, bone and chop two anchovies, mince a small eschalot, and some young cress or parsley. Mix these well in a salad-bowl, add a spoonful ot olive-oil, two of vinegar, pepper at dis- cretion, and a little made-mustard. To this sauce put very thin small slices of cold roast-meat, or minced breast of cold chicken, or lobster-meat, also veal gravy; toss them about in the sauce, and let them soak in it:—or, instead of sauce, use aspic-jelly^ or remoulade^—No. 598. Garnish with curled parsley, boiled white of eggs, or beetroot.—Obs. Almonds, capers, pickled fruits, or fish, grated cheese of high flavour, and many things of a piquant nature, were formerly mixed with salads, and are still used abroad in their composition. Salads are likewise compounded of cold oysters, salmon, soles, skate, trout, and cray-fish; but these Gothic mixtures, though sometimes presented, are seldom or never touched. 238. Boiled Salad.—This, if less agreeable, is more safe than crude vegetables, however they may be compounded. The sauce may be the same as for English Salad, No. 233, but the vegetables are previously cooked. It is made of dressed celery, French beans, or cauliflowers. Sprinkle some chopped raw white lettuce or endive over it. The jelly of roast-veal or lamb blends well with salads instead of oil or cream, and is preferred by many persons. 239. A Winter Salad.—The basis of this is the same as any other salad, with the substitution of endive, celery, and beetroot cooked, also pickled red cabbage and hard-boiled yolks.—Obs. A very pretty winter salad may be arranged by nicely contrasting the colours of the constituents, gar- nishing with the beetroot in slices, the red cabbage and white celery, cut in delicate straws, and endive arranged in the