554 CHAP. ir.—preparations for the sick. ware can with plenty of sliced turnip. Cover the vessel, and let it stand up to the brim in boiluig water. Add salt and pepper, and serve when done. This simple dish, says the learned Doctor, contains all the juices of the veal, with the addition of saccharine matter afforded by the turnip. The Komans were acquainted with this mode of cookery; it was what they meant by per duplex vas coquere." Beef may also be dressed thus:—Soups of sheep's head or trot- ters, or calf s feet boiled slowly to a weak jelly, are excel- lent invalid dishes in many cases. They should be served with grilled toasts (No. 81), which are often acceptable to a stomach too delicate to bear other food. 1129. Barley-Water.—Wash common or pearl barley, and take in the proportion of an ounce to a quart of water. Give it a boil for a few minutes in a very little water, and pour off this, and take fresh water, which will make the barley-water lighter and of a better colour. Boil it down one half. Lemon-peel and sugar may be added, or a com- pound draught made, by adding to every pint of the decoc- tion an ounce of stoned raisins, a quarter-ounce of sliced liquorice-root, and three or four figs. With lemon-juice it is less cloying, and more grateful to the sick. Currant-jelly answers very well mixed in barley-water. 1130. Panada.—Slice the crumb of a loaf very thin, and soak or boil it gently in water; when soft, beat it well, and add sugar, and, if admissible, wine or a little rum. A little butter may be added.—0^5. Panada may be made of chicken-broth instead of water, and seasoned with a little mace, or a bit of lemon-peel, and is excellent for invalids. 1131. White Caudle.—Mix two large spoonfuls of finely- ground oatmeal in water, two hours previous to using it; strain it from the grits and boil it. Sweeten, and add wine and seasonings to taste. Nutmeg or a little lemon-juice answer best for seasoning. 1131^. Brown Caudle, the Scotch Ale-berry, is made as above, using mild sweet small beer instead of water.—Obs. Caudle may be made of rice-flour or wheat-flour, with milk and water, boiling long and sweetening it to taste. 1132. Beef-Tea.—Cut a pound of lean, fresh, juicy beef, into thin bits, and pour a quart, or better, of hot water over it; infuse this for a half-hour by the fire, and then let it