447 PLUM-PUDDING. wliich may be fried, broiled, or heated in a Dutch oven. A Suet-pudding^ a Baked Plum-pudding^ and a Fat-pudding^ are made exactly as the above, only the quantity of fruit may be varied at pleasure, or cheaper fruit substituted. 834^. The St Bananas Plum-Pudding, d la Franqaise—ex- cellent,—Chop together twelve ounces of fresh beef-kidney- suet, and six of hard marrow, throwing into the mince six ounces of the finest sifted flour. Put this into a large basin, and mix with it a saltspoonful of salt, four ounces of pounded sugar, a glass of brandy, and a large teacupful of milk. Stir well up. Add two ounces of candied orange or citron peel, cut in delicate strips, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, six ounces of currants cleaned, six ounces of Musca- tel raisins stoned and chopped, with three minced rennets; and, if you have it, four large spoonfuls of apricot-jam. Stir the materials well. Add five beat eggs, and stir briskly; and, lastly, the grate and juice of two lemons. Stir again; allow to soak for an hour or two, to blend and settle, and tie up the pudding firmly in a cloth, and boil for four or five hours. Sauce.—Thicken on the fire two beat yolks of eggs, two ounces of sugar, two of fresh butter, a grain of salt, a squeeze of lemon, a large spoonful of cream: add a half-pint of sherry, or a large glass of maraschino, or of black cherry- brandy : strain and pour hot over the pudding. 834^. Careme^s Pudding-Sauce—the Chaudot.—Beat the yolks of two eggs, to which add a half-pint of Madeira and four ounces of pounded sugar. Set this upon embers or a slow fire, and mill it with a chocolate-mill. It will thicken and become smooth, and is a superior pudding-sauce. Serve it in a sauce-tureen, and the moulded pudding without sauce. The chaudot answers well for all kinds of plum or other rich puddings. 835. A Hunter^s Pudding.—This is a convenient variety of plum-pudding. Stone a pound of raisins, and chop them, shred a pound of suet, clean a pound of currants, grate the rind of two lemons over this, and mix up six beat eggs with a pound of flour, a quarter-pound of sugar, a very little salt, and what milk will make a stiff batter. Season with a saltspoonful of Jamaica pepper, and the same quantity of nutmeg; and add candied citron and orange peel, if you like. Boil for six or seven hours in a cloth or mould, and