535 ELDER-WINE. sure of water and sucli fruit as you can get; such as rasp- berries, cherries, strawberries, gooseberries, and currants, either black, red, amber, or white. Strain and ferment as above directed : allow fifteen pounds of treacle or coarse sugar for every twenty gallons. Perfume with a quarter- pound of ginger, and a handful of sweet marjoram and lemon-thyme. Add two quarts of whisky. N.B. A more delicate compound Wine may be made by using loaf-sugar and brandy; the colour may be enriched by red tartar, or better, black currant-skin liquor as part of the water. 1101. Elder-flower Wine^ or English Frontignac.—Whisk six whites of eggs in six gallons of water, and put to this sixteen pounds of good loaf-sugar. Boil and skim it well. Put to the boiling liquid eight pounds of the best raisins chopped, and a quarter-peck of elder flowers. Infuse these, but do not boil them. When cooled to about 80°, put a quarter-pint of yeast to the liquid, stirring it well up. Next day put in the juice of four lemons and the thin rind. Let it ferment in the open vessel for three days, and then strain and cask it. 1102. Elder-Wine^ made of the elder-berries, is a rich and rather expensive preparation. It is made in the proportions of three pounds of sugar and three pints of elder-berry juice to the gallon of water, enriched with chopped raisins, and perfumed and flavoured with ginger, nutmeg, cloves, etc. An excellent but more expensive Elder-wine is made by using equal weight of water, Malaga raisins and sugar, and an eighth part elder-berries; and flavouring with cinnamon, cloves, mace, and ginger. Elder-berry wine is, or was^ the pride of many English housewives, and no expense nor pains were spared in its preparation. Mulled, or as negus, it forms a pleasant winter beverage. It may stand in the cask till February to fine before being bottled, and is best hot and spiced as No. 1073. 1103. Orange-Wine,—^Dissolve twelve pounds of loaf- sugar in six gallons of water, in which the whites of a dozen eggs have been whisked. Whisk the whole, and boil and skim it. When nearly cold, from 75° to 80°, put into it six spoonfuls of yeast, and the juice of a dozen lemons. Next morning, skim off the top, and add the parings of the lemons,