210 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. be got: glazed or browned in butter or lard, turnips as above make an excellent garnish to several dishes. 200. To Mash Turnips. When the turnips are boiled as above directed, drain them and mash them with a wooden spoon through a colander. Return them into a stew-pan to warm, with a piece of fresh butter, white pepper, and salt. When mixed well with the butter, place them neatly in the dish, and mark in diamonds or sippets.—Obs, Our Club put a little powdered ginger to their mashed turnips, which were studiously chosen of the yellow, sweet, juicy sort, for which Scotland is celebrated, —that kind which, in the days of semi-barbarism, were served raw, as a delicate whet before dinner, as turnips are in Russia at the present day. The long-shaped genuine navet of France is of superior gout. Mashed turnips to be eaten with boiled fowl or veal, or the more insipid meats, are considerably improved by a seasoning of ginger, which, besides, tends to correct the flatulent properties of this esculent. Yellow turnips, mashed and eaten with milk, are recommended in scurvy and consumption. Physicians recommend turnips and carrots to be boiled separately in three successive waters, drained well, and mashed together with new milk and salt. Dr Anthony Todd Thomson recommends this dish strenuously to convalescents restricted to vegetable diet, and prefers it himself to any other kind of vegetable food. Turnips eat well with boiled or roasted mutton, and make an excellent puree, over which to serve boiled scrag or leg of mutton, neck of lamb, tongue, etc. 201. Carrots and Parsnips. — These roots, if old, require long boiling, and the water changed. Wash young carrots, and scrub them with a brush. Old ones must be scraped lightly, remembering that the red outside is far the best of the carrot, and alone used in French cooker}^ When boiled, have the outside scurf rubbed off with a towel. They are served with boiled mutton or beef, whether fresh or salted. If large, they may be sliced across.—Obs. Some persons like cold carrots with cold beef. Parsnips may either be mashed with butter or cream, served whole, or, if large, quartered. Turnips, carrots, and parsnips, warm up very well in a vessel plunged in boiling water; so do spinage and cauliflowers.