MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 595 1233. To Clean Floor-Cloths.—Sweep and rub tliem; then wash with soap-ley, using sponge or flannel, but do not wet them much. Rub hard up with dry flannel. A little wax may then be rubbed in hard, which both improves the appearance and preserves the surface. 1234. To Polish Furniture.—Nothing, to our taste, improves ma- hogany so much as daily brisk rubbing; but various preparations are in use. Break down two or more ounces of bees' wax, and melt it in an earthen pipkin, take a half-pint of oil of turpentine, an ounce of alkanet-root, and a very little rose-pink ; pour this on the wax when ready to boil; stir it up, and let it cool; rub a very little on the furni- ture (previously thoroughly cleaned), and polish with dry flannel, or use merely one ounce of white wax, and two of turpentine. — Ohs. Lin- seed-oil, cold drawn, was wont to be used for mahogany; but the taste of the day is for light-coloured furniture, and, accordingly, oil which deepens the colour, is not so much used. Two parts linseed- oil, with one of turpentine, make a good composition for dining- tables; or use equal parts of the oil, vinegar, and turpentine. Wax prevents the action of the light, and keeps wood of a lightish colour for many years. Various pastes and varnishes are sold to colour and polish mahogany, which, with the exception of wax, if we wish to preserve the wood of its first colour, or of oil to polish, we conceive of little utility, farther than as they may contribute to beguile the toil of the fair polisher. 1235. To Polish Mahogany^ etc., in the Italian 31anner.—Clean and cover the wood with olive-oil. Melt gum-arabic in spirit of wine, and polish the wood hard with this, which gives a beautiful varnish. Ohs. Pieces of old soft beaver-hats, and of soft smooth cork, are very useful in polishing furniture. 1236. To Preserve Polished Steel. — Smear with mutton-suet, and dust over with unslacked lime. A paste of lard or fowl's grease, camphire, and black-lead, will also preserve steel. Caoutchouc-varnish is the most effectual coating for steel, but it is too expensive for common domestic purposes. 1237. To Clean Steel Grates.—Rub the bars clean while still warm, if it be possible; then clear with emery-paper, or polish by hard rubbing, using a little dry emery, or finely-pounded Bath-brick. When very dirty, a thin paste, made of emery and boiled soap, will be found useful at first. 1238. To Clean Brass Grates^ Fire-Irons^ etc.—Make a smooth paste of rotten-stone (pounded finely and sifted) and sweet oil. Keep in a tin-box; rub on, if hard, using a drop of oil, and cleaning with a linen rubber; polish with leather. Good pastes for brass are now sold very reasonably. 1239. To Clean Knives and ForTcs. — Use a board covered with leather. Bath-brick is still the best thing known for cleaning knives. Wash ofl" the grease and dry the knives as soon as they come from table; but do not use water too hot. It is good to have a tin can or jug tor this purpose, two inches less in depth than a table-knife blade is long. On a wooden board two knives may be cleaned at once, taking one in each hand, holding them back to back, and rubbing in difl'erent directions. Wipe forks well, and plunge the prongs into a