CARAMEL SUGAR FRUIT-JELLIES. 491 965. Caramel Sugar. — Boil craclding sugar till, on dip- ping a stick into it, and tlien into cold water, it hardens and snaps like glass.—Ohs. Tiiis last makes a very elegant cover for sweatmeats, when prepared thus: — Set the pan with the caramel sugar instantly into a vessel of cold water. Have the caramel-moulds oiled with almond-oil, and with a fork spread fine threads of the caramelled sugar over them in form of net-work or chain-work. This, however, we own, is easier said than done. The caramelled cover will last for many occasions if carefully handled. All sorts of fruit may be caramelled^ whether fresh or preserved. They must be washed free of sugar, if preserved, and dried in both cases. The process is, however, troublesome, and seldom succeeds but under the hands of thorough-bred confectioners, to whom, in general, all highly-ornamental affairs should, we think, be left. On all ordinary occasions we recommend highly-crys- tallized sugar for marmalades and jellies. Fruit-Jellies. See also page 475. 966. Red Currant Jelly. — Let the fruit be good of its kind, fully ripe, and gathered on and after a dry day. Strip it off the stalks; weigh it, and clarify and boil to the second degree an equal weight of refined sugar. Put the fruit to this in the preserving-pan ; boil and skim for fifteen minutes. Skim again, and run the jelly through a hair-sieve; but do not run it off too much; pot it, and when cold paper it with egged papers, as directed at p. 488. What remains in the sieve will make nursery pies, or mix with any common jam, and the jelly will be far more delicate from avoiding all squeezing. — Ohs. A small proportion of raspberries greatly improves the flavour of this jelly. It may be made paler by the mixture of a fourth or third part of white currants; or white raspberries may be used. Currant jelly may be made with much less boiling, or no boiling, for it may be worked- cold, as it is technically termed; but though this method is suitable for jellies made to serve in shapes,—for immediate nse in desserts, or for venison or roast-mutton sauce,—it does not, by our experience, answer well for keeping. 967. White Currant Jell?/. — Make as above, or better, heat the fruit in a jar set in boiling water, and strain off the