152 CHAF. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 98. A Cheap Bice and Meat or Curry Soup. Boil from three to four pounds of a good ox-clieek, very well soaked and cleaned, in three quarts of water, with four onions, and a small fagot of pot-herbs. Strain it; cut the meat in small pieces, and stew it with six ounces of blanched rice, adding pepper and salt. This cheap stew-soup may be seasoned with curry-powder and mace ; or made after a finer fashion with fowls, knuckle of veal, or two cow-heels.—See No. 82. form in which food can be prepared. This is that combination of fluids and solids, animal and vegetable substances, with condiments, which forms a mixture well fitted to the human stomach, and calculated to promote health and impart strength. The prejudice which exists in England against soups as not promotive of strength, ought to give way before stew-soups. It has been gravely contended of late, that human life cannot be supported on soups, however rich, without solid animal food; and experiments are quoted where a dog kept on the richest soup died, while another which was fed on meat boiled to chips, and water, retained health and strength. To these experiments may be opposed the living example of the peasantry of Ireland and Scotland, and other countries, who hardly ever see animal food in any form, and yet enjoy health and strength. " The greatest heroes of antiquity," says Sir John Sinclair, lived on broth." The liquor in which their mutton or venison was boiled, thickened with a little oatmeal, and seasoned perhaps with a few wild herbs, formed the morning tea and cofiee in the hall of the Highland Chief, before the introduction of these commodities. It is impossible to say on what men will not live,—ay, and enjoy health too ;—shell-fish, Iceland moss, mushrooms, snails, and an end- less variety of substances, have been known to sustain life and health,— not to mention fricassees of old shoes and leather breeches, to which ship-* wrecked mariners have often had recourse. Our readers cannot have for- gotten Sir Bevis of Hampdoun in his dungeon, of whom— " Kats, and mice, and such small deer, Was the food for full seven year." This to be sure is solid animal food, and favours the theory of the modern experimenters ; but again, we have Dr Franklin's old Catholic lady, who lived solely on water-gruel, and yet enjoyed health. There has lately started up in England, we are told, a newfangled religious sect, who, from an absurd reading of the commandment, " Thou shalt not kill," renounce the use of animal food, and enjoy high health on their vegetable regimen. It is indeed great presumption to limit the powers of the human stomach, in assimilating and turning to healthful chyle whatever is, in discretion and without violent and sudden change, submitted to its action. Of this important organ, " the master of the family," it holds as strongly as of the palate, that " What is one man's meat is another man's poison:" " Ghaque pays, chaque coutumey The Tartar feeds on horse-flesh, the Chinese on dog's, the Greenlander on fish-garbage, with the luxurious sauce of train-oil. The Frenchman and German feast on frogs and snails, and the ancients valued asafcetida as much as the moderns do curry-powder, or Burgess's fish-sauce.—r. T.