110 CHAP. IV.—BROILING. sauces, save the native juices of the meat, with the addition of pepper, salt, and at most a particle, a soupqon, of minced eschalot or onion. of this unique regale, generally found on a journey, a pedestrian tour, or fishing excursion. Yes, gentlemen! England may well pride herself on a bonne houche which her rival exhausts herself in vain endeavours to imitate, though she has never yet succeeded in even spelling its Christian name. The rum'-stih and hif-stih de mouton, are not more unlike in orthography than in quality, to the juicy, delicately-hrowned, hot, tender rump-steak, which has immortalized the name of this ' Club ' and of Dolly. But I am sorry to say that beef-sfe'c/cs, literally so, are too often met with even in our own island. I have calculated that in the cities of London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, and Glasgow alone, upwards of a hundred thousand young men dine on beef-steaks every day of the week,—students, apprentices, clerks, ^gentlemen of the press,^ and so forth. What a clattering of gridirons here! Now, if our receipt, by instructing the thousands of slip-shod or tidy wenches who dress those messes, tends to keep said youths from taverns and ordinaries, true to the old sober habits of their country—home- dinners^ I shall not think this page ill bestowed, Dr Redgill ; though you hint that too much time is occupied by simple elementary processes."— The Doctor assured his friend that he held no such opinion, and suggested that the girls attending the National Schools ought to be early initiated into these mysteries, as in the admirable French institution at Ecouen, near Paris, which would be conferring a real kindness on those they were destined to serve in future life.—" No spot on earth once," said Winter- blossom, "like the Old Flesh Market Close of Edinburgh, for a spare- rib steak ; and I believe it has not yet quite lost its ancient celebrity. I never ate one in perfection but there :"—and the old beau related, with much vivacity, the adventures of a night on which he had accompanied to this resort the eccentric Earl of Kelly, and a party of Caledonian hon-vivants of the last age.— "But the receipt?" inquired Eedgill, with grave earnest- ness, corresponding to the magnitude of the subject. "0! neither more nor less than that those taverns were, and are kept by butchers' wives, so that the primest of the meat found, and finds its way there. In the dark- some den into which we dived—Luckie Mtddritt's of savoury memory— hungry customers consumed beef-steaks by wholesale, at all hours of the night and day, or rather of the perpetual night. The coal fire was always in prime condition, and short way between the hrander and the mouth, Doctor,—served hot and hot,—no distance between the kitchen and the hall: before the collop-tongs had collapsed in the hands of the cook, in rushed the red-legged waiting-wench with the smoking wooden platter. Every man held his weapon ready, and his teeth set; trencher after trencher followed.—Ay, this is to eat a steak in perfection. It can be known but once!"—The listening Doctor compressed his lips, and sighed in accordance with this melancholy view of life. There were times—hours of crudities and incipient evil digestion—Avhen the hand of a child could have staggered the strongest principles of his culinary belief. The vision of some three pounds of steaks, consumed at a country inn in Somerset- shire, with all the vigour and relish of youthful appetite, sharpened by exercise, rose between him and the well-replenished board that now courted his advances; and the Doctor moralized on the vanity and nothingness of all sublunary pleasures, while he handed round the mock turtle soup. " No beef-steak, after all, equal to that of my friends the Abyssinians," said TouGHWOOD. The Doctor anathematized the savage and bloody pror