CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 446 of skins and filaments, and slired; a teaspoonfiil of nutmeg grated, a quarter-pound of fine beat sugar, a drachm of pounded cinnamon, two blades of mace, and a saltspoonful of salt; two ounces of candied lemon, orange, or citron peel sliced, and two ounces of blanched almonds roughly chopped ; also the grated rind of two, and the juice of four lemons, and sugar to sweeten. Beat six eggs well, and put to them a little sweet milk, a glass of brandy, and then mix in the flour, and all the ingredients minced, and let them blend for some hours. Tie up the pudding firmly, and boil it for four or five hours, keeping up the boil, and turning the cloth. Serve pudding-sauce, pouring some over.—(Nos. 305, 834^.) Plum-pudding will keep long, hung in a dry cool larder; and re-warm whole, or in slices, in the Dutch oven or frying- pan, or served in a pastry-crust. A plum-pudding with meat may be made either according to the receipt for minced pies, or a Bride^s pie, adding enough of eggs and milk. The same pudding may be baked.* 834. Marrow-Pudding.—Grate as much bread as will fill a large breakfastcup quite full. Put it into a jug, and pour nearly a quart of boiling sweet milk or thin cream over it, and let it swell and soak, while you shred a half-pound of marrow or kidney-suet, and beat up four large or five small eggs. Have two ounces of raisins stoned, and two ounces of currants picked and plumped. Sweeten the pudding to taste, and season it with a very little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of cinnamon in powder. Cover a flat stoneware dish on the edge with strips of pufl-paste, and mark tliis neatly in foliage. Bake the pudding in this dish, or plainly in a deep dish.—Ohs, A few blanched cut almonds, or a little candied citron or orange peel, may be put to this pudding for variety. A little finely-sifted sugar may be strewed on the top, which makes a good veil to puddings when unluckily scorched in the oven; and a few blanched almonds sliced may be stuck round it for ornament. In a flat dish twenty- five minutes will bake it. It will require a half-hour in a deep dish: or it may he boiled in a pudding-mould. This pudding, called also Alderman^s, will keep and cut in slices, * Instead of one huge plum-pudding, we prepare at The Cleikum a Hen and Chickens, putting the Hen, of ten or twelve pounds, to boil a couple of hours before her Chickens. We have the Hen for Christmas or company, and a, plum-Chicken can be heated up any day.