457 VARIOUS PUDDINGS. 865^ Another Welsh^ or Cheese-and-Onion Pudding, oj high gout — Parboil, skin, chop, and place as many good onions as you wish for in a small baking-dish, with pepper, salt, and plenty of butter. When enough done, cover with slices of Cheshire or Dunlop cheese toasted. Serve very hot, with toasts. This is an after-dinner relish of a coarse kind, or rather a Rere-supper dish. 866. Potato-flour-Pudding. — Stir three or four spoonfuls of the flour mixed with cold milk, into a quart of hot milk, in which suitable seasonings have been boiled, as nutmeg or lemon-peel. Strain and sweeten, add from three to five eggs at pleasure, and season with wine, rum, or pudding conserve. A quarter of an hour will bake it before the fire in the Dutch oven. 867. A George-Pudding, — Boil as for rice-pudding four ounces of ground rice with a roll of lemon-peel. Mix this, when drained dry, with the pulp of a dozen boiled, roasted, or baked apples, well beaten. Add the beat yolks of five or six eggs, sugar to taste, and a little cinnamon, with one ounce of candied orange and citron peel sliced. Butter a basin or mould and line with paste (not too thick), and pour the pudding into it; then gently stir in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a strong froth. Bake the pudding for more than a half-hour, and serve it with a caudle-sauce made of wdne, sugar, the yolk of an egg, and a bit of butter.—No. 304, 868. 868. Cream or Caudle Sauce for Puddings.—Sweeten thin cream, and season either with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon- rind, as best suits the pudding. Boil the cream with a bit of butter and a little rice-flour. SMnh it well, and keep it hot by plunging the dish in hot w^ater. When ready to serve, add a glass of sweet wine. Boil it up, and pour over the pudding.—See pages 252, 447. 869. A Charlotte or French Fruit-Pudding.—The prepa- rations known among us by this name are much admired on the Continent, and particularly in France, where the solid, lumpy, or over-rich English plum-pudding,* and fat pie or tart-crust, are not so much esteemed as they are at home.— * We cannot say whether it be in ignorance or irony that the French persist in calling our plum-cakes and plum-puddings, pudding, i.e., heavy or leaden. ButjpZom& enough they are sometimes. U