CHAP. II. PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 550 thickening does not stick to the saucepan. To avoid this, saucepans and all pans in which preserves, rice, and all such things, should be set on a trivet, and custards and egg-sauces in a vessel set in another to steam. Season with sugar and a bit of cinnamon boiled in the milk. Currants and grated nutmeg are sometimes used with rice-milk; and the milk is made first thin, and then thickened to a caudle with beat egg and flour.—Ohs, Where boiled rice and milk is frequently used as an article of diet, as in some nurseries and boarding- schools, the addition of a very little roughly-shred beef or mutton suet boiled with it, will not only render it more nutritious, but more wholesome. A bit of lemon or orange peel will give zest. Ill42. Bread-Pudding for Young Children or Convales- cents.—Dr Anthony Todd Thomson!s Receipt.—Over a half- pound of grated stale bread pour a pint of boiling milk. Cover the basin, and let it soak for an hour. Add to it, when cold, two eggs beat up. Mix and boil for a half-hour in the basin tied into a cloth. Eat with only salt or with sugar; and flavour with sherry, if wine is allowed. The doctor could have no objection to a bit of lemon-rind, cin- namon, or a little nutmeg. 1114^. Dr A. T. Thomson's Sowens or Flummery for con- valescents. To any quantity of oatmeal you like to infuse, put double the weight of warm water; stir well, and let the mixture infuse for four or five days in a warm temper- ature. Add more water, stir up and strain. Let the liquid stand till the starch falls down in a white sediment; pour off the water, and, mixing as much of the starch or sedi- ment as is wanted with water to thin it, boil, stirring briskly for a quarter of an hour, till a jelly more or less tenacious is formed. Sowens are eaten with milk, butter, or cream, and for convalescents, either with wine or milk, as prescribed. "Buttered sowens wi' fragrant lunt'' was the Hallow-Eve supper of rural Scotland. Thin or raw sowens are or were drunk in Aberdeen, and the northern towns of Scotland, on New Year's Day morning, for some reason that we do not pretend to understand. Sovjens, as a supper-dish, wont to be presented at the noblest tables in the north, and also in Ireland and Wales, under the name of flummery. There is no preparation of oatmeal more wholesome or palatable, and