307 OF DRESSED VEAL. tliem with sauce Robert or sauce d la Tartare^ in the dish; or they may be served as a fricassee like calf's head, thicken- ing the sauce, and seasoning it with lemon-peel and mace. They may be curried.— For Calfs Brains^ see Nos. 630, 631. Made-Dishes of Cold Yeal. 462. To Ragout Cold Veal,— Cut the cold meat into small round cutlets, trimming off all gristles, skins, bones, etc. With the fragments, an onion, a turnip, and carrot, make a little good gravy. Melt some fresh butter in a frying-pan, and flour and brown the slices of veal of a light brown; take them up, strain the made-gravy into the pan, and thicken the sauce to a proper consistence with flour first mixed with butter. When smooth and well mixed, put in the cutlets, and let them simmer very slowly. Season with pepper, mace, catsup, and anchovy or mushroom powder, if you choose; always bearing in mind that meat re-dressed, having lost much of its native flavour, requires more seasoning than at first. Skim the sauce, and pour it hot over the ragout. 463. To Hash Veal.— Cut the meat in thin small slices, paring away all gristles, skins, etc. Warm it up in a gravy drawn from the bones, as in the former receipt. Thicken with butter rolled in flour, and season with mace, minced lemon-peel, a spoonful of lemon-pickle, or the juice of a lemon; or, in place of these, a glass of basil-wine.—See Hashed Beef, Nos. 421-30. 464. To Mince Veal.—Take only the fine white part of the meat, mince it very finely, and heat it up in a little veal- stock, with white pepper, salt, mace, a good deal of finely- rasped lemon-peel, and a glassful of hot cream.—Ohs. Minced Veal may be dressed as patties, scallops, or hlanquettes. It is much more savoury when made of undressed meat. 465. A Dunelm of Cold Veal.—This is made by mixing stewed mushrooms finely minced with minced veal, thicken- ing the fricassee, putting a little cream to it, and serving garnished with toasted sippets, which ought to accompany all hashes and minces, 466. To Pot Veal.—A fillet of white veal answers very well potted. (See No. 431.)—Pounded ham or smoked tongue mixed with the potted veal is a great improvement to it.—For Potted Calfs Head^ see National Dishes, For