TO BOIL TURBOT. 169 than that of meat. The fish may be rubbed with lemon to whiten it.* Cover it with cold water, into which throw salt, six ounces to the gallon. Do not let the fish-kettle come too fast to boil; skim very carefully; and this done, draw aside the kettle, and allow it to simmer for from twenty- five to thirty minutes, without that violent degree of ebulli- tion which would crack the skin and spoil the look of the fish. Many cooks, to have the colour fine, and to prevent the skin from cracking, wrap a cloth round it, which is fast- ened under the strainer. For saucesj anchovy, lobster, or shrimp sauce, or any of the fish-sauces stirred into plain melted butter, may be served in one tureen, and melted butter in another, but lobster-sauce is the favourite turbot- sauce. Garnish with a fringe of curled parsley, slices of lemon, or horseradish nicely scraped. Nasturtium flowers look pretty intermixed, though we are not fond of over-garnish- ing. Cover the cracks, if unfortunately there should be any, with the garnish and a little lobster-coral. The ornaments may be interspersed with fried sprats, or very small flounders fried. Small turbot makes a very delicate dish, cut in slices and fried, drained from the frying fat, and, without breaking, simmered for five minutes in a sauce made of thin melted butter, a few pickled oysters chopped, or a boned anchovy, a teaspoonful of walnut-pickle, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom-catsup. Take up the fish with a slice, lay it neatly in the dish, and, having skimmed the sauce, pour it hot over the fish. A glass of claret is a desirable addition to this sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon.—Obs. Cold fish of any kind may be cut in neat pieces, and heated up in a white sauce; or soused, by placing it handsomely on the dish in slices, and pouring over it any of the flavoured vine- gars you choose, or white pepper and plain vinegar. If any lobster-sauce is left, it will be found most useful in dressing cold turbot afresh. The French make many entrees de desserte of this fish, by cutting what remains into fillets or dice, stewing these in a white sauce—d la crime, or serving in vol-au-vent, or in a dish with an ornamented border made of fried bread cut into diamonds.—See Nos. 688, 691. For turbot, Careme serves no sauce save two tureens of melted butter. * French cooks sometimes Tboil turbot in milk and water. H