WHITE OYSTER-SOUP CRAY-FISH SOUP. 157 103. White Oyster-Soup. Have for a full tureen of soup, a Scotch hundred (one hundred and twenty) or an English hundred and quarter of moderate-sized, plump, native oysters. Oysters for soup should be bearded in shelling; but if not, scald them in their own liquor, and take away the nut and beards: pick them out of the liquor and keep them warm. Let it settle for a half hour, and strain it over the oysters. Boil the nut or hard part and beards in a pint of strong veal-soup, for twenty minutes; let this settle, and strain it to three pints more of veal stock, seasoning it with a blade of mace and cayenne, and meanwhile have the oysters simmered for five minutes in their own liquor, and ready to slip into the tureen, into which a half-pint of rich boiling cream is to be stirred. This soup may be thickened w^ith beat yolks of eggs or arrow-root, enriched with butter; or cooked maigre by using fish-stock and butter; or the oysters may be run on fine skewers and fried, instead of being simmered in their own liquor. If large, the oysters for soup should be divided. Plain Oyster-Soup, maigre.—Have good Court Bouillon (No. 679), or make some of four pints of water, four onions fried in butter, mace, and other seasonings. Put to this when skimmed a half pound of fresh butter, and a hundred picked oysters ; also a few mushrooms. Thicken with rice- flour and simmer slowly a quarter of an hour. 104. Cray-Fish Sovo^^—Maigre, Make two quarts of fish-stock, in which boil a bunch of parsley, two onions, and two dozen of black and Jamaica peppercorns. For this, from two to three pounds of fish- fins, heads, etc., all fresh, will be needed. Boil to a mash, and strain the liquor till clear. Pick from four to five dozen of cray-fish, and stew them in the soup till delicately done: add a little cayenne, and the spawn of a boiled lobster, pounded and stirred into the soup, which it will both thicken and enrich.—0^5. Cray-fisli soup is seldom seen in this country; but good shell-fish soups are made of mussels, cockles, and prawns. These all require a good stock, (whether gras or maigre), plenty of pepper, and careful washing and picking.—As much of the flavour of delicate shell-fish is lost in washing them free of sand, the washings