82 CHAP. III. ROASTING. to good roasting, and is so generally useful, that something of the kind ought to find a place in every family that aspires to comfort. It saves fuel, keeps plates and dishes warm, and, above all, by warding off draughts of air, preserves the temperature in the region of the spit in a state of equality. Once, or, if the roast be very large, twice during the process, withdraw the spit and dripping-pan, and stir the fire, clear away the ashes, and bring forward the clear burning coals,* supplying their place with fresh fuel. When the meat is nearly done, which will be known by the length of time, and by the steams, in the language of the kitchen, " draw- ing to the fire," the paper, if any, is to be removed, a little salt sprinkled over the roast, and the spit so placed that the ends of the roast may be browned. The meat must now be carefully basted, and may be placed a little nearer to the fire, if the surface is not yet of a fine, clear, brown colour. The roast is then frothed, where this is liked, by dredging it very lightly with well-dried flour, shaken from a dredg- ing-box smaller in the holes than those generally employed.-j- Fresh butter makes a delicate froth, but does not improve the flavour of the skin or the appearance of the gravy, which ought at this stage to be sparkling in the dripping- pan, bright, brown, and transparent as a Caledonian topaz. If much flour is dredged on, let it at least have time to get crisp. Fashion and luxury have introduced stall-fed oxen and overgrown sheep, which are better fitted for the tallow- chandler than the cook. They are indeed good for nothing, save to obtain premiums at cattle-shows, and delu.sje drip- ping-pans with liquid fat. Our prize oxen," says D'Israeli, * In all departments of domestic life, save the management of kitchen- fires, there is at least a plausible show of attention to economy among servants. There the waste is wanton, wilful, and enormous, whether cooking be going forward or not. The waste of fuel," says Count Kum- ford, " which arises from making liquids boil unnecessarily, or when nothing more is necessary than merely to keep them boiling hot, is enormous. I have not a doubt, that half the fire used in kitchens, public and private, in the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner." What would Count Rumford have said to great Jires for doing nothing ? To convince a regular cook, or even a kitchen-maid, that she does not know how to manage her fire, is, we confess, quite hopeless; but surely something might be made, by the proper instruction of young girls, in economizing an article of such serious consequence in all families. t The calibre of Touchwood's best dredging-box and that of his pepper-box were precisely the same.