70 CHAP. II.—BOILING. whitest when quite fresh, but most delicate when hung a week in the larder, though not so long as to alloAv the juices to thicken and the flavour to deteriorate. Mountain- wether mutton, from four to five years old, is by far the best, whether for boiling or roasting. Choose it short and thick in the knuckle, and of a pure, healthy, brownish red. Chop but a very small bit off the shank; if too much is taken off, the juices will be drained by this con- duit. If you wish to whiten the meat, blanch it for ten minutes in warm water, or boil it in a floured cloth if you like. Simmer it in an oval-shaped pot that will just hold it, letting the water come very slowly to boil. Skim carefully. Boil sliced carrots and turnip with the mutton, and the younger and more juicy they are the better they suit this joint. Be sure never to run a fork or any thing sharp into the meat, which would drain its juices. All meat ought to he well done, but a leg of mutton not overdone, to look plump and retain its juices. About two hours of slow boiling will dress it. Garnish with slices of carrot. Pour caper-sauce over the meat, and serve mashed turnip or cauliflower in a separate dish. Some good country cooks serve the turnip as a puree^ that is, a thin mash made with cream or its own broth, under the mutton; and as, in carv- ing, the native juices are all caught by the vegetable sauce, the practice, though not general, is commendable. Where it is followed, the caper-sauce must be kept in a sauce- boat. Turnip-sauce, i. e, a very thin puree, or mash, is sometimes poured over the joint. If chickens or fowls are wanted for the same dinner, they will boil in a cloth with great advantage along with the mutton, before the roots are put to it, or in some of the liquor in a separate pot.—Ohs, This joint, above all others, should be boiled slowly to eat well. The liquor in which fresh mutton is boiled is valuable for broth ; and it is a common family practice in Scotland, to make barley or rice broth for next day at the same time the leg is boiled. When broth is to be made, put in the barley at first; lift out the meat after an hour and a half's boiling; cover it up to keep warm; take the lid off the pot, and suffer the liquor to eva- porate by rapid boiling, till what remains is strong and good, and the broth of a proper consistence. Cut some of the roots into small dice, and put these, with a head of