MAKING CHEESE. 587 the quicker the process of coagulation—but the curd is tougher; and one obvious cause of the superiority of Cheshire and otlier English cheese, is the moderate dose of rennet put to milk at a low temperature. The approved temperature is from 75° to 80°, medium 77°; instead of the old degree of from 90° to 96°, the curd forming in a half-hour by the old way, to which an hour and a quarter, or more, are now given. 1204. Gallino Bennet.—When cooking fowls or turkeys, keep the skins that line the stomachs or gizzards; clear them of pebbles and other matters; and salt, dry, and steep as above directed, a bit the night before rennet is wanted. Rennet may now be bought, and in useful small quantities. The Dutch cheese is said to owe its peculiar, and to some disagreeable, to others delightful flavour, to muriatic acid being used for rennet. Vulgarly this Kanter flavour is attributed to swine's milk. 12042. Temperature of Milk at which to add the Bennet.—75° to 80°, medium 77°. On the average, three quarts of good milk should yield one pound of cheese. Temperature of 31ilk for Churning^ 65°. Cream for Churning^ 56°. 1205. To Colour Cheese and Butter, and to Produce the Blue Mould, —Annatto is prepared in cakes, in London, for the use of the dairy, but will do very well as bought in provincial shops. Tie it up, when reduced to powder, in a bit of muslin, and use it in the milk for cheese, precisely as laundresses do hhte in tinging linen, till the desired shade of colour is obtained; the lighter the better. For butter, infuse the annatto in a little milk, and put the tincture to the cream; but pale natural coloured butter is more valued. Cheese is tinged green with juice of spinage; or flavoured and slightly tinged with the expressed juice of the red sage. The true blue mould, in cheese, so highly valued by connoisseurs, comes, if it comes at all, no one can tell how. To further its production, the cheese is brushed clean while still soft, dipped in whey and rubbed slightly with butter once a-day, for from ten days to tv/enty days, till the desired appearance is obtained. The fresh cheese is also inoculated with bits of blue from a blue cheese, to catch the tint by contact. 1206. British Parmesan.—Heat the day's milk to the proper tem- perature, from 75° to 77°, and after it has settled, put in the rennet. When it has stood for an hour or more, the coagulated milk is to be placed on a slow clear fire, and heated till the curd separates of itself. When separated, throw in cold water to reduce the temperature, and quickly collect the curd in a cloth, gathering it up at the cornei'S. When drained, place it in a deep cheese-hoop, and press it as other cheese. Next day it will be firm enough to turn. Let it dry slowly and gradually, often (at first about every hour) changing the wrap- ping cloths. Rub it with a little salt daily for three weeks, or plunge it in pickle for a few days. The curd for this or any other cheese may be coloured with a little saffron, or annatto, by putting a tincture of them, extracted in milk, to the milk when to be curdled.—See No. 1205. 1207. Scottish Imitation of Stilton.—To the morning's milk add that of the previous evening, either skimmed or with the cream, as you intend to make a very rich cheese or one of inferior quality. Do