508 CHAP. V.—PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. pounds of fine sugar, and pound these ingredients to a paste; then put in eight more whites of eggs. Beat the whole well together; fill a biscuit-syringe, and squirt the macaroons on wafer-paper, and fire them slowly on tins. Ratafia-cakes may be made as above, by using one-half bitter almonds. Drop the biscuit from a knife-point instead of a squirt, if you have no squirt. Rice-flour is sometimes substituted for part of the almonds, and brandy is used to flavour. 1018. Plain Gingerbread,—Mix with a pound and a half of flour, four ounces of butter, four of brown sugar, a half ounce of ground ginger, and some allspice. Make this into a paste with two ounces of hot treacle, and shape and bake the cakes. 1018^. Mrs Fletchers^ Parliament-Calces.—With two pounds of the best flour dried, mix thoroughly one pound of good brown sugar and a quarter-pound of ground ginger. Melt a pound of fresh butter, add to it one of treacle, boil this, and pour it on the flour; work up the paste as hot as your hands will bear it, and roll it out in very large cakes, the sixth of an inch thick or less; mark it in squares with a knife or paper-cutter, and fire in a slow oven. Separate the squares while soft, and they will soon get crisp. 1019. Fine Gingerbread.—Two pounds of flour, a half- pound of brown sugar, a half-pound of candied orange-peel cut into bits, an ounce of freshly-ground ginger, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, cloves, mace, and some allspice. Mix with these a pound and a half of treacle, and a half- pound of melted butter. Mix the ingredients well together, and let them stand for some hours before rolling out the cakes. The paste will require a little additional flour in rolling out. Cut out the cakes, mark the top in diamonds with a knife, or string, and bake on tin plates. 1020. Gingerbread^ or Spice Nuts, or Schnaps, may be made of the above paste, but a little more ginger and other spices should be employed, and a little more flour. Drop the paste from a spoon on paper, and bake.—Cayenne, to my taste, rather improves gingerbread. A little carbonate of soda is now used to raise these nuts.''—P. T. * This worthy lady was the universal favourite of the schoolboys of Edinburgh, the contemporaries of Sir W. Scott. We regret not being able to recover her recipe for White Quality Cakes.