CATSUPS. 2G7 ounce of cloves, the same of long pepper and nutmegs. Boil this liquor in a close vessel for three-quarters of an hour, and when cold, bottle the catsup, putting equal proportions of the spices into each bottle.— Ohs. Anchovies, garlic, cayenne, etc., are sometimes put to this catsup; but we think this a Ibad method, as these flavours, and even vine- gar, may render it unsuitable for some dishes, and they can be added extempore when required.—See Pickled Walnuts^ No. 374. 365. Lemon Catsup or PicMe.—Choose six large fresh lemons; pare them thinly; rub them with salt till they are saturated with it. Make an opening in the end of each, and put in salt. Bed them in a handful of salt and horseradish, and six bruised cloves of garlic, for a week; then dry them in the oven till quite crisp; boil them in two bottles of vinegar with a half-ounce of cayenne. Add a cupful of the best mustard-seed, and bruised tomatas to colour; strain and bottle.—See No. 381, and Melon-pickle, No. 297. 366. Tomata-Catsup.—Make this exactly as the sauce, No. 274 ; but boil it for an hour, then strain and bottle. A small glassful will flavour and colour any sauce, or, with melted butter, make an extempore Tomata-sauce. 367. Cucumber-Catsup,—Pare large cucumbers; cut them in slices and break them to a mash, which must be sprinkled with salt and covered with a cloth. Keep in all the seeds. Next day, set the vessel aslant to drain off the juice, and do this till no more can be obtained. Strain the juice, and boil it up with a high seasoning of white peppercorns, sliced ginger, black pepper, sliced eschalot, and a little horse- radish. When cold, pick out the eschalot and horseradish, and bottle the catsup, which is an excellent preparation for flavouring sauces for boiled fowls, veal, rabbits, or the more insipid meats. 368. Oyster^ Cockle, and Mussel Catsup.—Wash in their own liquor, and pound in a mortar, fat, newly-opened native oysters. To every pint of the pounded oysters, and their strained liquor, add a pint of white wine, and boil this up and skim it; then to every quart of this catsup add a large teaspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of pounded mace, some cayenne, with salt to taste. Let it boil up to blend the spices, and then strain the catsup through a sieve into a