451 CHEESE-PUDDING.—SPONGE-CAKE-PUDDING. may be steamed or baked. Stick blanched almonds, sliced longways, round the edges. 843. Parisian Macaroni-Pudding.—Wash six ounces of macaroni, and simmer it in water till tender, but not soft. Strain it; beat up five yolks, and two whites of eggs. Stir into them a very little salt and pepper, and a half-pint of sweet cream. Mince, but not too finely, the skinned breast of a cold fowl, and rather less of dressed lean ham. Grate about an ounce and a half of Parmesan cheese over the mince, and mix the whole ingredients well together with the macaroni. Butter, fill, and close a melon-shaped or other pudding-mould, and expose it to the steams of boiling water till thoroughly done. Turn the pudding carefully out, and serve it hot, with a strong clear gravy flavoured with onions,, parsley, and, if the flavour of the French cookery is admired^ a little tarragon.—Ohs, This, by gourmands of experience, is considered as out of sight the best modern preparation ol macaroni, sweetened dishes of this paste being considered by them as only fit for boys or women. But some except our Sughlio macaroni. More cheese may be employed of rich melting kinds.—See Nos. 557, 560-63, which we think better receipts than the following nightmare-creating cheese- pudding. Cheese-Pudding.—Grate Cheshire, or new rich Dunlop, or any mild melting cheese, in the proportion of a half-pound to two beat eggs, with a little oiled butter, cream, and a large tablespoonful of finely-grated bread. Bake in a small dish lined with puff-paste, or omit the paste, as in other puddings, at discretion.—Another, plainer and better. Grate the cheese; use but one egg, and melt the whole in a small saucepan with milk, or, if for a supper-relish, with ale or porter; use two tablespoonfuls of finely-sifted crumbs. Pour the mixture into a small buttered pudding-dish, and brown it in the Dutch oven. Made-mustard may be added. 843^. Sponge-cake-Pudding.—Take from six to eight fresh penny sponge-cakes. Butter a mould, and, slicing them, line it as for bread-and-butter pudding. No. 858. Strew in a thin layer of candied citron or orange peel, cut in delicate strips, or of delicate jam; then lay in more slices of cake and more orange-peel; three ounces in all. Make a caudle of five well-beaten eggs, and a pint and a half of boiling