OF MUTTON. 309 and simmer in broth, witli onion, peppercorns, and a head of celery, till ready. Undo the tape, and pour oyster-sauce over the mutton. Nearly obsolete, 469. To Dress a Scrag of Mutton.—Trim the scrag, and dress it as Bachelors' Stew^ No. 396, or braise it in fresh stock with roots, seasonings, and a fagot of sweet herbs, and small slices of bacon under and over it, if you wish it rich. Simmer gently for three hours. Skim, and strain the gravy, and serve it with the meat, and dressed spinage, or cucumber- sauce. 470. Shoulder of Mutton.—Receipt by a Scotch Lady, —Keep the shoulder as long as possible without spoiling. Half roast it. Score it on both sides as for broiling. Melt in the basting-ladle four mellow anchovies chopped; put pepper and salt to this; place a clean dish under the roast, and baste with the following hot sauce :—The melted anchovies, half a pint of port, half a pint of rich gravy, a spoonful of mushroom-catsup, the same of walnut-catsup, a point of cayenne; baste constantly till the mutton is done. Dish on a hot dish rubbed with garlic. Skim the sauce or dropped gravy, and pour it over the mutton.* 471. To Dress a Breast of Mutton.—Cut off the fat; par- boil the meat; egg it, and strew over it shred parsley and bread-crumbs. Stick pieces of butter all over it. Roast it in the Dutch oven, and serve with caper or Robert sauce, or with stewed cucumbers. See No. 473. 472. Mutton-Collops.—See Beef-CollopSj page 116, and Chops, 111. 473. To Grill a Breast of Mutton.—Cut off the superfluous fat, and take out the bones. Boil for a half-hour. Cool it; beat it flat, and season and score it in diamonds. Brush it with egg, and strew minced parsley and bread-crumbs over it. Broil it in a Dutch oven, basting it well with fresh butter; and serve with caper-sauce, cucumbers, or sauce Robert. 474. Mutton-Cutlets, Maintenon.—Cut handsome chops from the loin, or cutlets from the gigot. Fry some chopped * M. Ude might shrug at this receipt as inadmissible in delicate cookery. But the dish is admirable for gusto; and at all events there are so few avowed fair amateurs of cookery in Scotland that we like to encourage the breed.—P. T.