CHAP. V. FRYING. 120 54. To Fry CaK's Liver and Bacon. Calf^s liver is fried as above. When nearly done, or better in a separate pan, fry the bacon. Dish with a slice of bacon laid on each slice of liver; or they may be dished separately. Serve a little thickened gravy with a squeeze of lemon. Garnish with crisp parsley.—Ohs, Sound ox-liver and bacon, done as above, make a good, cheap^ but coarse dish. So do mashed potatoes, with fat bacon fried. 55. To Fry Venison Collops, Scottish. Cut nice steaks from the haunch, or slices neatly trimmed from the neck or loin. Have a gravy drawn from the bones and trimmings, ready thickened with butter rolled in lightly-browned flour. Strain it into a small stew-pan, boil, and add a squeeze of lemon or orange, and a small glass of claret:* pepper to taste, a salt-spoonful of salt, the size of a pin's head of cayenne, and a scrape of nutmeg. Fry and dish the collops hot, and pour this sauce over them. A still higher gout may be imparted to this sauce by eschalot wine^ basil wine^ or tarragon vinegar^ chosen as may suit the taste of the eater. If these flavours are not liked, some old venison-eaters may relish a very little pounded fine sugar and vinegar in the gravy, and currant- jelly may be served in a sauce tureen. Garnish with fried crumbs. This is an excellent way of dressing venison, par- ticularly when it is not fat enough to roast well.—For Venison Minced Collops^ see National Dishes, 56. To Fry Tripe and Cow-Heels. Tripe must be boiled as in No. 16, cut in pieces not too large, and dipped in a batter m ade of flour and eggs, with a little salt and minced onion, if you like, and fried for seven minutes of a rich pale brown.—TFMe Onion-sauce.—Ohs, Cow Heel is cut into neat pieces, egged, rolled in crumbs, fried, and served in the same manner. The Club were not partial to these fries. They to a man preferred plain boiled tripe, or tripe fricasseed with a white sauce.—See Potted Heelj Irishj French, Birmingham, and Glasgow Tripe, * Claret, of all the red wines, is that, in general, best adapted to the use of the cook; for higher flavour. Burgundy is preferred, yet white wines are those generally used; Champagne, Madeira, and Sherry especially, which are best adapted to white meats and fish.