464 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. bread. Beat two or three eggs with a glassful of milk. Mix all well together, and put a little salt and allspice to the mixture. Work it up into the shape and size of turkey- eggs, and tie each up separately in a pudding-cloth dredged with flour. Boil three-quarters of an hour at least. These are eaten hot along with meat, or alone with butter and vinegar. Made small, they are called dough-nuts^ and may be boiled thirty-five minutes. 876^. Plum^ Apple, Currant, Raspherry-Jam, Strawberry^ Jam, Gooseberry, or Damson Dumplings,—Line a tin basin with a plain suet-crust, and fill with the fruit, either pre- served, or prepared as for pies and puddings. Pinch in the paste, tie a floured cloth over the basin, and boil from two to three hours, and turn it out:—Or, roll the crust out long, spread the fruit or jam over it, then roll up as a collar, tie in a cloth firmly at both ends, and boil. This is a Rolled Pudding. 876^. Net or Crochet Dumplings. — Ladies ingeniously knit net or crochet cases in which to boil dumplings, which give them at table the appearance of being carved. What is called round nettingand fancy netting, has the best effect, though this may hold of fifty diflerent stitches; only let the thread be tough, and rather coarse. This refinement is appropriate to fruit-dumplings; suet ones being homely unpretending aflairs. 877. Norfolk-Dumplings.—Make a very stifl* batter with a pound of flour, a little milk, three eggs, and salt. Work this up into balls of the size of small turkey-eggs, roll them in flour, and boil in fast-boiling water, or along with meat, thirty minutes: or drop the batter from a spoon into water that boils fast, and boil for ten minutes ; drain, and serve them hot. Currants and sweet spices may be mixed in with suet or batter dumplings. Pancakes and Fritters. These articles make an economical and genteel addition to small dinners, and have the advantage of being quickly forthcoming upon any emergency. 878. Common Pancakes.—Beat from four to eight eggs, according to the number of pancakes wanted, and put in a small spoonful of flour for every egg, with sugar, ginger.