398 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. They must in this case be made very dry, and covered with oatmeal; nor will a haggis keep so well if there is onion put to it. For some tastes—our own for example—the above receipt prescribes too much onion. Haggis meat, by those who cannot admire the natural shape, may be poured out of the bag, and served in a deep dish. No dish heats up better. A ragout of cold haggis heated up in a stewpan in which a little shred onion, with pepper, is first fried, and the whole covered over with a haggis-bag, to keep the meat sappy^ is better than on the first day. We advised M. Soyer to try haggis with a paste or mashed potato border, d VEcossais, 723. A LamVs Haggis.—Slit up all the little fat tripes with scissors, and clean them thoroughly. Clean the ker- nels also, and parboil the whole, and cut them into little bits. Clean and shred the web and kidney fat, and mix it with the tripes. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Make a thin batter with two eggs, a half-pint of milk, and the necessary quantity of flour. Season with chopped chives or young onions. Mix the whole together. Sew up the bag, which must be very clean, and boil for an hour and a half. Lamb's Haggis is often made as sheep's haggis. We have been requested by a correspondent to give the following receipt for Calf's haggis publicity, for the benefit of mankind. The St Eonan's Club had originally no ex- perience of it, but Dr Redgill was willing to stake his reputation upon it untried, and he was found right. 7232. Calfs Haggis.—Take the veal-caul (or web of fat), the udder, the kidney, and best part of the calfs pluck. Blanch and boil the udder, and the split kidney and pluck, for twenty minutes. When cool, mince them; mince also the caul. Blanch and hash two dozen sprigs of picked young parsley, a few green onions very young, a bit of eschalot, and a few mushrooms, if you have them. Stew the herbs in butter for three or four minutes, and moisten them with a glass of Madeira. When this gets dry, season with salt and pepper. Mix the ingredients, i. e. the herbs and mince. Put them into a bag as other haggises; but for security have two bags, one casing the other, for iear of a breach. Mix meanwhile the beat yolks of two eggs with a half-pint of rich and highly-seasoned veal or beef gravy, and