192 CHAP. VII.—FISH. a large pot with water, and make it brackisli with salt (on the coast sea-water is used); brush and put in the lob- sters, tying the claws. Take off the scum, of which a great deal will be thrown up, and let them boil from twenty to forty minutes, according to the size. If boiled too long, the flesh will get thready and coarse; if not long enough, the spawn will not have a good colour. Wipe the lobsters with a damp cloth, then rub the shell with butter, and wipe it off again. Break off the great claws, and crack them at the joints without mangling. Split down the tail, and dress all neatly on the dish, serving the following sauce:—The hard yolks of two eggs pounded in a mortar with a little vinegar or lemon-juice, and the soft spawn of the lobster. When beaten quite smooth, mix this with a large spoonful of salad-oil and a glassful of the best vinegar, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a little cayenne and salt. For crabs the same sauce, but shorter boiling. 166. To Pot Lobsters, Shrimps, and Crabs for Sandwiches, Toasts, Deviled Biscuits, etc. Crack the claws, etc., and pick out the meat. If for sandwiches, beat it in a mortar with pounded mace, white pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. If to keep for eating, for a cold relish, mix the meat neatly cut in small bits, and patron saint of epicures, made a voyage to the coast of Africa on hearing that lobsters of an unsually large size were to be found there; and, after encountering much distress at sea, met with a disappointment. Very large lobsters are found on the coast of Orkney. Some naturalists affirm (Olaus Macinus and Gesner), that in the Indian seas, and on the wild shores of Norway, lobsters have been found twelve feet in length and six in breadth, which seize mariners in their terrible embrace, and dragging them into their caverns, devour them! However this may be, the lobsters and crabs for being devoured are best when of the middle size, and when found on reefs or rocky places. They are obtained on many parts of the British coast; and during the summer months there is generally an abundant supply in the London market. In places where crabs are good and plentiful, a pretty supper-plate is made of a few pairs of the claws cracked; and an excellent substitute for lobster-sauce is prepared from them, particularly from the small delicate species known by the name of Cavies. The age of shell-fish may, it is said be known, as that of a tree is by the bark, from the roughness and incrustations which gather upon the surface. Yet if lobsters cast their shells yearly, how can this be ? At any rate, avoid the crusted. River lobsters are esteemed more delicate than sea ones. In Germany, lobsters are often boiled alive in milk. The Ger- mans are indeed fond of cooking all sorts of fish in milk, and of marinading in m.ilk.—Barbarous cookery.—P. T. French practice is rapidly refiiiii)g German cookery.