243 CELERY-SAUCE, ETC. long, three or four heads of celery, the younger the better. Boil these tij.l tender in water, and season with pounded mace, nutmeg grated, white pepper, and salt. Thicken with white roux^ No. 253, or a good piece of butter kneaded in flour, or a liaison of two yolks of eggs. The juice of half a lemon is an improvement, or, for less delicate purposes, a little lemon-pickle.—Ohs. French cooks stew the chopped celery in stock, with suet or fat bacon, and use very little seasoning, which they justly think unsuitable, celery possess- ing so decided a flavour of its own. A puree of celery is made by boiling twelve heads, cut down, till tender; drain- ing, chopping, and stewing with four ounces of butter, half a pint of Bechamel, and a pint of milk, passing through a tammy, seasoning with salt, pepper, sugar, and serving very hot. 269. Brown Celery-Sauce.—Stew and season as in the receipt No. 268, thicken with browned flour, and add a glass of red wine and a spoonful of catsup.—See Pease- Sauce, No. 699. 270. Horseradish-Sauce J White and Broivn.—Grate a tea- cupful of horseradish; if for a white sauce add bread-crumbs and salt, and put to this vinegar. For Brown-sauce stir the horseradish in brown gravy, and add a little vinegar, salt, sugar, and a dessertspoonful of made-mustard; or use vine- gar alone without gravy. 271. Mint-Sauce for hot or cold Boast Lamb.—"Wash a small quantity of young mint; pick the tender leaflets, and have a wineglassful very finely minced, to which add, in the sauce-boat, vinegar enough to thin the mint, and pounded sugar to taste. 272. For Cucumber-Sauce, see Stewed Cucumbers, No. 210. 273. Sorrel-Sauce.—Stew two handfuls of blanched sorrel very slowly, with a good bit of butter oiled. Season it with pepper, salt, and cayenne; add a little strong gravy, and beat it well. Make it very hot, and serve below or with roast lamb, veal, sweetbreads, etc.—See No. 212. 274. Tomata-Sauce.—Take from ten to fifteen ripe toma- tas, or fewer, according to the size ; put them into a jar, which set in a cool oven. When they are soft take off the