158 CHAP. YI.—-BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. may be allowed to settle, strained repeatedly, and put to the stock; but where shell-fish are in plenty this is idle. 105. Forcemeat for Fish-Soups, or for Stews of Fish. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a boiled lobster in a mortar, with a boned anchovy, the yolks of three eggs hard boiled, and a head of boiled celery chopped. Put to this a handful of bread-crumbs, cayenne, mace, a spoonful of mushroom-catsup, a quarter-pound of melted butter, a large spoonful of oyster-liquor, or some oyster-pickle, and two or more eggs well beaten, to cement the composition. Mix well, and form it into very small egg-shaped balls, which fry, or brown in a Dutch oven. Or the fish that makes the stock may be pounded for forcemeat.—See Fish Forcemeat; French Cookery of Fish; Chap, Fish; and also Crappit Heads. 106. Eel-Soup. Take two pounds of cleaned and cut eels, two quarts of water, a crust of bread, two blades of mace, two onions, a few corns of white pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs; boil the fi^h uncovered till half the liquor is wasted, then strain it, and serve it up with toasted bread. This may make both a ragout and a soup. It may be made stronger by boiling it longer, or using broth instead of water.—See Scotch Fish and SaucCj National Dishes ; also Fish-Turtle, 107. Milk-Soup, A nice Nursery Dish. Boil two quarts of milk, with a little salt, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar to sweeten; lay thin slices of toasted bread in a dish; pour over a little of the milk to soak them, and keep them hot upon a stove; taking care the milk does not burn. When the soup is ready to serve, beat up the yolks of five eggs, and add them to the milk. Stir it over the fire till it thickens; then take it off lest it should curdle, and pour it into the dish upon the bread. —Obs. This makes the Potage de Lait of French cookery, by the addition of a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds (with a few bitter ones) blanched, pounded, sifted, and stirred into the boiling soup. It may be thickened with rice, Semoulina^ Vermicelli^ Nouille, or Cagliari paste, or cocoa-nut, and is