123 BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. The essential qualities of soup are, that it be nourishing and restorative. It is the food of childhood and extreme old age, of the declining and the debilitated, for whom the soup- pot performs half the offices of the digestive organs. With these invigorating and salutiferous qualities, the mildest, the richest, and the most poignant relishes may be combined, by the judicious employment of the numerous ingredients which go to the composition of soups. The capital defect of soups is not in general so much the want of meat as of the time necessary to the due concoction of a rich fluid composed of so many ingredients. The defects of soups are vainly attempted to be concealed by the excessive use of pepper and herbs. The following elementary rules, from the French of the chemist Parmentier, were assumed by the Club as practical directions to the cook :— Eules for Making Nourishmg Brotli. I. Sound, healthful, fresh viands. II. Vessels of earthenware in preference to those of metal, as a less degree of heat keeps them boiling; and once heated, a few hot cinders will maintain that slight degree of ebullition which is all that is wanted. III. Double the weight of water to that of the meat used. but as a nation they manage better than most of their neighbours,—three hot meals of broth and meat for about the price of one roasting joint, perhaps. Then ' second day's ^a^7,'—said I right, dame?—something to warm up to- morrow for the gudeman and the bairns; pot-au-feu of France?" " And gude enough too," rejoined Meg; " sae ye need not cast up puir Scotland, Captain Jaykill. A week's hunger and a Sunday burst—their hot roast joint—set them up! We may be easily put by; and the Gude forbid we were belly-gods and pock-pudding Eppycurryeans; though at a Christening, or a Kirn, or on a Sacrament Monday, we may like a bit roast as weel as our nice-gabbit neighbours." " Ay this it is to clip and crib the gluttonizing joys of honest John Bull, ' to some high festival of once a-year,' " said Jekyll. " Call you a wholesome nutritious soup four times'a-week, clipping the gormandizing joys of John Bull, " cried the Nabob, " instead of his Sunday roast and dilution of porter ?—no, sir, soup is the best as well as the most economical fare for dinner that a mechanic's family can consume. But I will give him a thousand preparations." " Besides the elegant variety of Mr George Rose's salt herring, and Cobbett's toujours fat—'yer^/ya^—bacon," said Jekyll, who scented a long prosing harangue and wished to cut it. " But let Mistress Dods proceed with her discourse," he added. Here, however, the Doctor called the party to order, and resumed the real business of the day—Gravy-soup. . . . For many excellent, cheap Scotch soups, see National Dishes, and Cookery for the Poor.