441 PATTIES. and a teaspoonful of lemon-grate. Stew the lobster-meat in this for a few minutes, adding a spoonful or two of water, if over thick, and a very little flour to give consistence to the gravy. Fill the patties with the hot stew when they are ready to serve. Another way^ French,—Make the meat into balls the size of a very large pea :—egg and roll the balls in fine crumbs and lobster coral: fry and place five in each prepared open patty-case, and a larger one to crown. Moisten with as much sauce VAurore as the crusts will hold without slopping.—See No. 820. 826. Oyster and Mushroom Patties.—Take two parts of stewed oysters, and one part of fresh mushrooms ; cut them separately into small dice. Fry the mushrooms in butter and flour. Moisten this with gravy, the oyster-liquor, and a little cream. Season with salt, nutmeg, pepper, and cayenne. Stir in the oysters, fill the patties, and put on the top. 827. Turkey-Patties,—Mince the white part of cold tur- key ; add a little grated ham. Stew this in a little good gravy, or melted butter. Put a spoonful of cream to the mince, and season with white pepper, salt, and mace. Veal and Ham Patties,—Make and season both these as chicken and ham patties, No. 821. 828. French^ or Modern English Patties,—These are essen- tially the same as patties baked in tins, and elaborately carved by the hand as above, but they differ in form, and are in fact just small vols-au-vent, or large pastry hors d'oeuvres^ according to the composition with which they are filled. Have some very light puff-paste about a half inch thick : with a fluted pastry-stamp of three and a half inches in diameter, cut out as many pieces as you wish patties; and, with one of less than two inches diameter, as many more : wet the smallest, and place it over the largest: and with a third cutter, of one and a half inch diameter, press lightly, but to make a distinct impression through both. Bake in a baking-tin in a quick oven, till of a good colour— about fifteen minutes: cut out the marked top, keeping the rim of the upper crust whole: scoop out the paste below, put in a teaspoonful of a suitable sauce, and tlien the pre- pared mince of oyster, lobster, chicken, or whatever it is : add a little more sauce, and either put on a paste-top, or, for ham and chicken patties, and some others, as oysters and t 2