589 DUNLOP AND GOUDA CHEESE. N. B.—Slips of the elder, placed on cheese-racks, are said to keep away the blow-fly.—Doubtful. Spirits, cloves, lemon-grate, and other things, are sometimes used to subdue the bad flavour of rennet. Their effect is more doubtful still. 1209. Best Dunlop Cheese.—"As soon as the milk is taken from the cows, it is poured into a large pail, or pails, and, before it is quite cold (about 77°), the steep, i.e. rennet, is mixed with it. When it is sufficiently coagulated, it is cut transversely with a broad knife made for the purpose, or a broad three-toed instrument, in order to let the curd subside, and to procure the separation of the whey from it. When this separation is observed to have taken place, the curd is lifted with a ladle, or something similar, into the chessel (for it is to be observed, that where a proper attention is paid to the making cf these cheeses, no woman's hand ought ever to touch the curd, from the milking of the cow to the finishing of the whole), where it remains a few hours, till it has acquired something of a hardness or consist- ency. It is then taken out of the cheese-press, and cut into small pieces, with the instrument above mentioned, of the size of one or two cubic inches, after which it receives the due proportion of salt (a pound to forty-two of curd), and is again replaced in the chessel, and put into the press, where it remains a few hours again. Then it is taken out a second time, cut as before, and mixed thoroughly, so as every part may receive the benefit of the salt; and for the last time, it is put into the cheese-press, where it remains until replaced by its successor. After this is done, it must be laid in a clean and cool place, till sufficiently dried, and fit to be carried to market; great care is to be used in frequent turning and rubbing, both to keep the cheese dry and clean, and to preserve it from swelling and burst- ing with the heat, vulgarly '•fire-fanging.'' When these cheeses are properly made, and dried as they ought to be, they have a rich and delicious flavour." N.B.—This, and all sorts of cheese, may be pricked with a bodkin, to allow the escape of the air, which, if left, forms what are called eyes in cheese,—a bad sign. 1210. A rich Cream-Cheese., without Bennet.—Dr Hunter.—Take any quantity of thick cream, and put it into a wet cloth. Tie it up, and hang it in a cool place for seven or eight days. Then take it from the cloth and put it into a mould (in another cloth), with a weight upon it, for two or three days longer. Turn it twice a-day, when it will be fit for use. 1211. Imitation of Shap Zigar.—This is made by flavouring the curd with the expressed juice of melilot, and greening it with juice of spinage. Press it hard, and dry it slowly, that it may be thoroughly dry, and fit to rasp. If made of ewe or goat's milk, or a mixture of them, the imitation will be very close. 12112, Gouda Cheese, an Improved Method of Maldng.—Dutch Re- ceipt.—When the milk is all collected, the rennet, which is prepared in the following manner, must be put into it: Six rennets {maws) must be taken and cut into small pieces; on these must be poured three kilogrammes of water, in which about five kilogrammes of kitchen-salt have previously been dissolved. It may be proper also