501 TO MAKE BARLEY-SUGAR, ETC. "Wedgewood-ware or glass seals, with groups from the an- tique, stars, shamrocks, etc., pressed upon them while still moist. Inferior paste is got from the refuse of apple-jelly. 999. Ratafia-Drops,—Blanch and pound, with an ounce of fine sugar and a little water, four ounces of bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds. Add to the almond-paste a pound of sugar, the beat whites of two eggs, and a little noyeau. Beat the whole well, and when light, drop the batter from a biscuit-funnel on paper of the size of pigeons' eggs, and bake on tins. The addition of fine flour will make this Ratafia-Biscuits. 1000. To maize Barley-Sugar.—Clarify, and boil sugar to the fourth degree, or crackling height, and, when nearly boiled enough, add to it lemon-grate, a drop of citron-oil, or a little beat spermaceti, according to the sort of barley- sugar wanted. Rub a slab or dish with oil, and when the sugar is ready, dip the pan in cold water for two minutes, and then pour it out thin on the dish. Cut the sugar into slips, and while hot twist it. Care must be taken in boiling sugar to this height, that it does not burn or fly over; to prevent which, a bit of butter may be thrown in to check violent ebullition :—add a little lemon-juice if it be in danger of graining. This may also be made as small lozenges or drops. It is often acidulated with tartaric acid, and is then termed Acidulated Drops. 1000^. Grandmamma^s Bon-hons.—Cut candied citron or orange peel into strips an inch long, and then as small dice : string them apart on a fine wire skewer, or knitting needle, and dip them in boiling barley-sugar flavoured in any way you prefer. Have a baking-slab, or large flat dish rubbed with oil, that they may not stick, and lay them on it to dry. When crisp, pack them in paper bags. With candied sugar for a basis, an endless variety of preparations, as, Rock^ Brilliants^ and Lozenges of various sorts, are made. Flavour and colour make the only difference. Flour is used with the cheaper sorts. 1001. Candied Orange and Lemon Peel.—Soak the peel of lemons or Seville oranges first in salt and water, and afterwards in fresh water. Dry them, and boil them till tender in a thin syrup; afterwards in a stronger syrup boiled higher; next drain, dry, and store them.