POTATO-PASTY. 463 four inches, rising conically, heap potatoes mashed with milk and a good bit of butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt; and if for beef or mutton, with a shred onion, if you like—in the Scottish fashion. Mark the paste neatly, and press some of the mash with a spoon through a colander, to form a sort of fretted or coral work on the surface, over which it is a great improvement to stick lightly small bits of butter. If the potatoes are in danger of being too much done before the meat is enough, the perforated cover need not be put on the mould till the meat is partly cooked. Bake as long as an ordinary pie of the same size, and serve with a napkin (or one of the fancy ''pie-dish jackets'' that ladies knit) round the mould. The frame or cover must not be removed till the pasty is served, when it is placed on another dish; as the potato-crust, we need not say, might break or crumble. Four pounds of potatoes, at least, will be required for the mash, and, if any of it is left, it may either be placed in balls round the ledge, or usefully served in slices, balls, or scallops. Cold mashed potatoes of a for- mer day are quite as good for pasty as those freshly mashed. The advantage of the potato-pasty pan over ordinary modes, lies in the steams of the meat ascending to the mashed pota- toes through the perforated cover, and that a well-looking and rich crust is thus obtained. After all, it is not much superior to the old way of dressing a thick border and balls of potatoes in a dish ; browning these, and then putting in any prepared hash or stew. Undressed meat, to be plainly served as potato-pasty, may be half-baked, or rather more, and then covered with mashed potatoes, over which a large old dish-cover may be turned, and only taken off to allow the crust time to brown before serving. Dumplings, Dumplings are made of all sorts of fruit, either fresh or preserved, and also of meat and other things. They are convenient, and sometimes economical, though not particu- larly elegant, and far from being of easy digestion. The boiled paste of dumplings is dough in its heaviest form ; but yeast will lighten it and save eggs. If yeast is used, the dough must stand a little to rise.—Buy bakers' dough. 876. Suet'Dumplings.—Chop from four to eight ounces of suet fine, and take double the weight of flour and grated