160 CHAP. VI. ^BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. of harmless and delicate messes may be made of spring fruits; we subjoin a few approved recipes :— Spring Soup of the Cheese-gourd.—Cut tbe fleshy part of a ripe gourd into small bits. Put these into a pan with an ounce of fresh butter, and melt over a slow fire to the con- sistence of a puree. Add water in the proportion of half a gallon to four pounds of gourds. Add a little salt and sugar to taste. Dish the soup over toasted bread cut into dice.— See No. 73. Use more butter.—P. T. Cheese-gourd^ Spanish fashion.—When ripe, slice the fleshy part of the gourd an inch thick, and score the slices on one side about half through. Put some rasped fat of bacon into a stew-pan, with a little parsley, eschalots, and chopped mushrooms, pepper, and salt; give this a fry; and cover the scored side of the slices of gourd with the mixture, lay- ing them first on the dish, which place in a quick oven, with a little melted butter or olive-oil poured over. When baked sufficiently, serve hot. Soup of Gourds.—Pare and slice the gourds. Boil them in gravy-broth to a mash, and strain this off. Put the strained soup on the fire in a clean pan. Season with salt and white pepper, and, boiling for half an hour, put three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan in the tureen, and serve the soup over it, stirring them well up together.—N.B. The cheese must be in quantity to suit the soup. The above will do for a moderate dish. Second-Course Dishes of Young Gourds.—Take gourds when no larger than cucumbers, and cut them in four length- ways. Clear off any pulp. If tender, only blanch them, but if hard, parboil. Brown two ounces of butter, with a table- spoonful of flour in good gravy; stew the gourds in this sauce, and season Avith white pepper, cayenne, if you like, and salt. Young Gourds in White Sauce.—Proceed as above, but do not brown the butter. Instead of gravy-broth, take three beat yolks of eggs, a half-pint of milk, and another of cream. Mix and stir this over the fire like custard,—thick- ening with more yolks if necessary. Dish the gourds in this white sauce, and serve. N.B.—For a variety of other fashionable soups, see French Cookery^ Nos. 607 to 618. For good plain soups, see Na- tional Dishes j and also Cookery for the Poor,