CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 460 strips, and two fine pears, cut in large dice. Mix all up, so as to look well when turned out, and freeze again; after which, fill the mould, and set it on the ice. These iced Pou- dings may be varied in many ways, by substituting different fruits and flavouring ingredients. 8742. Parisian Iced Apple-Pudding,—Peel, quarter, and core two dozen of pippins, and make them into a marmalade ; add to them a pot of apricot-jam, eight ounces of sugar, rubbed on the rind of a Seville orange. Rub all through a tammy, and freeze; then mix in a pot of preserved cherries, drained from the syrup ; four ounces of the best raisins, stoned, washed, and stewed in syrup, but cold; with an ounce of fresh citron-peel, cut in dice, and two ounces of pistachio-nuts, also in dice. Add a quarter-pint of maras- chino, and as much curagoa; mix the whole, and freeze again, and add two platefuls of whipt cream, or as much as the preparation will require. Freeze once more; fill the mould; plunge it into the ice-pot, which work with the handle, and mingle the frozen and unfrozen parts, till all are frozen equally. Serve it, turned out upon a neatly-folded napkin, and send to table iced whipt cream in a sauce-tureen, or glass dish, as sauce for iced pudding. 874^. Charlotte Prussienne.—Put jelly, flavoured with maraschino, and coloured with cochineal, into a plain dome- shaped mould, till it be a half-inch deep. Place it upon the ice; line the sides of the mould with Savoy biscuits, and fill the void with a jelly made thus :—an ounce and a half or two ounces of isinglass, dissolved in half a pint of water, to which is put the juice of two lemons, and five ounces of sugar, pounded. Boil till reduced one-half; skim, and pass through a tammy, and, when cold, add a quarter-pint of maraschino, and two glasses of brandy. Put the mould in the ice-pot, and, as the composition begins to freeze, add a pint of well-whipt cream. The biscuits must be cut and placed, or built up, in neat order, and made fast with jelly. A variety of Charlottes are thus made, varying the fruits and liqueurs ; as of ripe strawberries, or of differ- ent coloured fruits—en Mosaique, 874^. Careme^s Nesselrode-Pudding.—This pudding is made in the same way as other iced puddings, substituting forty cooked chestnuts, pounded and rubbed through a sieve,