290 CHAP. 1. MADE-DISHES very useful for flavouring soups and sauces. Herbs, cori- ander-seeds, juniper, and garlic, are all used for this piquant dish by the French. They braise it with roots, bacon, and wine. This dish may be glazed and garnished with pickles and meat-jelly; and thus decorated, when cold, even after being previously served hot, makes a handsome dormant dish at an entertainment where there is a long table to cover. 410. BoBvf de Chasse; another form oj Spiced Beef.— Bone a piece of the flank of fifteen pounds. Take one ounce of saltpetre, three of brown sugar, two bruised nut- megs, a half-ounce of cloves, and an ounce and a half of allspice, with two large handfuls of salt dried. Pound and mix these well, and rub them well into the beef. Keep it two weeks in this pickle, turning and rubbing it daily. Wash, bind it up, skewer, and boil it, or bake it for four hours in a slow oven. 411. Dutch or Hamhurgh Beef.—Eub a rump of beef with brown sugar, and let it lie three days, turning it often; then wipe it, and salt it with four ounces of bay salt, four ounces common salt, and one ounce of saltpetre, all well beaten and mixed. Let it lie in this for a fortnight, turning it, and then roll it tight in a cloth, and press it under a weight. Smoke the meat in the cloth, hung in a chimney where wood is burned; boil it piecemeal, or fry with bacon in slices, as it is wanted; if boiled whole, press it till cold, and it will grate or pull like the real Dutch beef. — Ohs, Too much saltpetre is generally used for salting meat. It is incredible (till tried) how small a particle wiU give the desired red colour. 412. —Hamhurgh Beef or Boeuf Fume,—^This is cured in nearly the same manner as No. 411. Take sugar, salt, a very little saltpetre, juniper-berries, and pound them ; mix spices with them and aromatics, all in powder. Rub the beef well with this, and leave it for a fortnight, turning it every day, and, like all meat pickled, keeping it covered with the pickle. Tie up, drain, and smoke it for a week. In Germany, when boiled, it is served on saur croute,—For Salting, see Nos. 1187, 1188. 413. Irish Beef—Proceed as directed for a rump or round,