188 CHAP. VII.—FISH. good of its kind, in well-stopped vials, and to mix them when they are wanted, suiting the quantities of the various ingredients to the nature of the dish. Fish, for example, requires more acid than fowl. Some people like a great deal of cayenne, others detest the taste and smell of turmeric, and some are all for ginger. To use curry-powder mixed in the same proportions for every sort of viand and of taste, may do very well for those who entertain a mysterious veneration for the Oriental characters inscribed on the packages, but will not suit a gourmand of any knowledge or experience. Lobsters, prawns, oysters, or mussels, may be added to fish-curry, and are curried by themselves. Dressed fish make good curry. The curry may be any shade of colour, from pale gold to deep rich brown, by browning the fish and onions more or less, or adding browning. 155. Dutch Water-Souchy,—Ifaz^rrg. Eels, gudgeons, whitings, flounders, perch, tench, etc., are all employed for this dish. Whichever sort of fish you use, clean them well, taking out the gills, eyes, etc. Cut them in neat small pieces. Have a little good fish-stock made of the heads and fins, and seasoned with onion, parsley, a bit of lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Strain and skim, and stew the cut fish in this for eight or ten minutes. Put in a little catsup; skim and serve in a soup-dish. A bay-leaf may be boiled in the stock, and the souchy may be flavoured with essence of anchovy, eschalot, or any flavour- ing ingredient that is approved.* Dr Anthony Todd Thomson's receipt.—Boil down two small flounders, whit- ings, or haddocks, in a quart of water to a third, reducing them nearly to a pulp; prepare four more flounders, and boil them in the strained liquor, serving with salt, pepper, and cayenne. This is strongly recommended for conva- lescents ; thickening the dish with beat yolk of egg if in advanced convalescence. 156. To Dress Cray-Fish and Shrimps. Boil cray-fish for fourteen minutes in the shell, in wine and water, or in salted water and vinegar, with herbs; drain, and serve them, hot or cold, on a napkin arranged neatly in form. Shrimps :—Boil five minutes, 1562. To Dress Whitebait, As at Greenwich and Blachwalh The sooner this delicate fish is cooked after it leaves the * We have been refused the receipt of the Star Inn at Alphen in Hol- land, a place famous for its water-zootje. This is illiberality which the Cleikum Club rarely experiences.