326 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES dish.—Ohs. Ducks thus dressed may be served with mashed turnips, over an onion puree or saur croute. 529. To Ragout Ducks,—Put the gizzards, livers, necks, etc., to a pint of good strong beef-broth, or other well-sea- soned stock. Season the ducks inside with salt and mixed spices. Brown them on all sides in a fryingpan, and then stew them till tender in the strained stock. When nearly ready, thicken the sauce with browned flour and butter, or brown roux. 530. Another way.—Clean, and season the ducks with pepper and salt inside. Par-roast them, and stew them in beef-gravy, with shred onions fried in the stewpan before the gravy is put in. When the ducks have simmered for twenty minutes, and been turned, put in a few leaves of sage and of lemon-thyme chopped very fine, or, in the season, a pint and a half of young green pease. When these are ten- der, thicken the sauce with roux or butter rolled in flour, and serve the ducks and pease together in a deep dish. Ohs. When pease are not in season, a dozen of small button-onions may be first par-roasted and then stewed with the ducks; or sliced cucumbers and onions, first fried.*—See No. 527. In Ireland ducks are often boiled, and very good. 531. To Hash DucTc.—Nothing hashes better than a fat roast-duck. Cut it into pieces as in carving at table, skin and soak these by the side of the fire in a little boiling gravy till thoroughly hot. Add a small glass of wine and a sufficient quantity of mixed spices, to give the sauce a high relish: or cut up the duck, add a gravy of the trimmings to some fried onions; thicken it, when strained, with butter browned with flour, stew the cut duck gently till ready, and, having seasoned the sauce, serve the hash on fried sippets. —Ohs. A cold goose may be dressed in the same way, adding a little finely-shred sage and onion to the hash-sauce;—and the legs of the goose may be scored, seasoned, and grilled, as directed for a turkey^ and served over the hash. Cold * Fillets cut from tlie breast of plump under-roasted ducks (that have been stuffed with chopped young sage and onion before they were roasted), served in hot orange-gravy and the juice that flows from the birds, with cayenne and high seasonings, are esteemed a rare luxury by the skilful gourmand. This is a dish for the solitary epicure, not for the table. Wives, children, and friends have no portion in such dainties. It is, more- over, the French Tahle Salmi.