SWEET SOUFFLlfis. 487 Sweet Soulfles. These favourite and fashionable preparations too often fail in the hands of ordinary cooks — or of one cook, with per- haps a temporary assistant, and distracted with a hundred cares. For souffles, there should properly be a soufide-dish that will stand the oven, and a finer one into which it fits to go to table. The light and airy appearance of souffles depends greatly on the whisking of the eggs, but as much on the baking. Besides, they must be served instantly, or they will flatten. There is often no help for this, and the consolation remains, that what is not a light delicate souffle is nevertheless a very tolerable pudding. 956. Souffle of Ground Rice.—Blanch two spoonfuls of rice-flour, and dry., it. Boil it slowly with a half-pint of sweet milk. Put gradually to it in a basin the beat yolks of four eggs, and mix well. Sweeten this, and thicken the mixture for a few minutes over the fire, as in making custard. Cool this, and gently pour into it the whites of six eggs, beaten to a snow. (If they are not well beaten, the souffle will never rise.) Put the whole into a souffle-dish, and instantly bake in a rather slack oven. It will take from a half-hour to forty minutes. Much depends upon the state of the oven. Brown with a salamander, and serve without delay. 957. Souffle of Potato-Flour,—Mix a large spoonful of potato-flour and one of sifted sugar with as much boiled milk or cream as will make a thick batter of them, or rather a soft paste. Flavour this with rose-water, orange-flower- water, coffee, or chocolate, as you please, but name the souflle accordingly. Work into this the beat yolks of six eggs, and afterwards gently add the whites, beaten to a snow. Bake the souflle, and glaze it if you please. This dish is susceptible of many forms; it may be coloured with saffron. The whipping of the eggs, the state of the oven, and quick serving are the main points* 958. Omelette Souffle.—Beat separately, and strain the whites and yolks of six eggs. Sweeten the yolks, and flavour with orange-flower-water or lemon-peel. Beat the whites again to a strong whip, and stir this lightly into the yolks. Have a bit of fresh butter melted in an omelet-pan,