2G6 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. of mace, and six cloves. Boil the liquor on a qnick fire for fifteen minutes, or, if it be wished very strong, and to keep long, boil the catsup uncovered till it is reduced one-half, adding the spices after it has boiled a full half-hour. Let it settle on the lees, and, pouring it carefully off, bottle what is clear by itself; and bottle the sediment, after straining, in separate bottles, as it will answer very well for fish-and- sauce, hare-soup, game-soup, etc. Dip the corks of the bottles in black-rosin. No. 1112. Cayenne and nutmeg may be added to the other spiceries if a very delicate relish is wanted; or all the seasonings may be withheld, save the black pepper and salt, of which catsups, to make them keep well, require a good deal. The longer catsup is boiled the better it will keep. Anchovies, bay-leaves, and cayenne pepper are sometimes put to mushroom-catsup. In France, glaze is put to mushroom-catsup, and the whole is boiled till it be nearly a glaze or robh ; in this state it keeps good for years. Catsups^ Sauces^ etc.^ ought to be kept with the bottles lying on the side. They ought all to be bottled in small quantities, as a bottle once opened sooner spoils. When a bottle of capers or pickles is opened, it should be filled up again with good vinegar, scalded and cooled.^ 364. Walnut-Catsup.—Gather the walnuts green. Prick them with a bodkin, and throw them into a vessel with a large handful of salt and a little water, which will greatly assist in drawing out their liquor. Mash them well with a rolling-pin, and repeat this every day for four days. The rinds will now be soft. Pour scalding water with salt boiled in it, over the walnuts; stir, and raise the vessel on edge that the walnut-liquor may flow away from the shells. Take it up as it gathers into another vessel, and still repeat the m.ashing; or pound the walnuts in a stoneware mortar, and pour vinegar over them, which will extract all the remaining juice. To every quart of the walnut-liquor, when boiled down and skimmed, put an ounce of bruised ginger, an ounce of Jamaica and of black peppercorns, a quarter- * The wholesale mushroom-catsup of the shops, like soy, etc., has greatly deteriorated within the last few years. What is called double- catsup is, in particular, a suspicious commodity. Where catsup cannot be carefully prepared at home, we would recommend that Harvey's or the Reading Sauce be substituted for it as often as is practicable, as they are more likely to be genuine.