282 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES it may be from six to ten pounds. Serve witli sliced carrots boiled with the round ; and greens or savoys, boiled in water enriched with the pot liquor, and served in a vegetable dish. A plated skewer must replace the wooden or iron one. 389, To Stew a Skin of Beef, or Bouilli Ordinaire. Have the shin-bone sawed across in three different places without cutting the fleshy side. Place skewers in the stew- pot, and lay the meat on them, with as much water as will nearly cover it. When this is skimmed, put in a bundle of herbs, a large head of celery cut, four onions, and a dessert- spoonful of black and Jamaica peppercorns in a spice-bag; cover the pot very close, and let the meat stew slowly for three hours, when more cut carrots may be put to it, and afterwards cut turnip, with a dozen of small onions; stew for another hour. Make a sauce for the Bouilli by thicken- ing and seasoning a pint of the soup with catsup, spices, and a little made-mustard. The French sauce hachee is also a very suitable garnish along with the onions. See Nos. 2, 591. 390. Beef or Veal a la Mode. The clod, the mouse-buttock, the rump, the thick of the flank, and any fleshy part may be dressed d la mode. Rub from six to ten pounds of the rump well with mixed spices and salt, and dredge with flour. Lay skewers in the bottom of a stewpan, and on them spread some thin slices of streaked bacon; place the meat on these, with a few more slices of bacon above, and a small quantity of vinegar and gravy, or good broth. Make the stewpan very close, and let the meat stew as slowly as possible over embers for two hours. Turn it, and put to the gravy a high seasoning of cloves, black and Jamaica pepper, with three bay-leaves and some mushrooms if in season, or a little catsup, and a dozen button onions half-roasted. Let it again stew very slowly till the meat is tender. Pick out the bay-leaves and bacon, and serve the meat in a deep dish with the gravy, which, if slowly stewed, will have thickened to the consistence of glaze. A fillet of veal is very good dressed in the same manner, though the gristly part of the breast is best adapted for this purpose. Lemon-grate may be added to the veal seasonings, but no