537 BIRCH AND MALT WINES. called, by allspice, a few cloves, some mace, cinnamon, and nutmegs, bruised and infused in brandy : the strained infusion must be put to the wine just before it is bottled.—Ohs, Ginger- wine, an insipid sort, is often made without being fermented, by merely mixing syrup, water, and whisky with ginger; and in the cheap wholesale way, allspice and cayenne are used with ginger to give flavour and poignancy.—See No. 1109. Another way^ from a Correspondent.—To seven gallons of water, take one pound and a half of ginger; bruise and boil it two hours, then strain and cool it; pour it over four- teen pounds of moist sugar. Add three gallons of strong grain whisky, the juice and rinds of two dozen lemons, one dozen bitter oranges, and three pounds raisins stoned. Barrel it, and stir it well every day for three weeks, then add one half-ounce isinglass dissolved in boiling water. After this let it stand in a cool place, well corked, in cask for two or three months, then bottle it.'' So far our correspondent; and this is certainly a pleasant cordial decoction,—a Ginger cordial^ but not a wine^ which should be a fermented liquor. 1107. Birch-Wine.—To every gallon of the sap of the birch-tree, boiled, put four pounds of white sugar, and the thin paring of a lemon. Boil and skim this well. When cool, put fresh yeast to it; let it ferment for four or five days, then close it up. Keep the bung very close, and in four months rack it off, and bottle it. N.B.—The pith must be carefully corked up when it is drawn off from the trees, till it is to be used. Less sugar will answer. This wine is sometimes made with a third part raisins, and flavoured with bitter almonds. 1108. Malt-Wine.—This, by courtesy, called Scottish Malmsey, is not the worst of the home-made wines. Pro- cure from a strong-beer brewer six gallons of sweet, fresh worts, or from a distiller the same quantity of pot-ale. To this add as much water, and for every gallon of liquor add two pounds of sugar, or one of sugar and one of good honey. Ferment this after mixing the sugar well Avith it, and let it remain in the cask for a month, keeping it full. Meanwhile soak four pounds of the best raisins, and twelve ounces of bitter almonds, both chopped, in a quart of flavourless whisky, which, when the wine is cleared by fermentation, add to it, with an ounce of isinglass melted in wine; mix z 2