408 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. Modern Crappit Heads are farced with the ingredients mentioned in Nos. 134, 149; or with the fleshy parts of a boiled lobster or crab, minced; a boned anchovy, the chopped yolk of an egg, grated bread or pounded biscuit, white pepper, salt, cayenne, a large piece of butter broken down into bits, with beat eggs to cement, and a little oyster- liquor. A plainer and perhaps as suitable stuffing may be made of the soft roe of haddock or cod parboiled, skinned, and minced, mixed with double its bulk of pounded rusks or bread-crumbs, a good piece of butter, shred parsley, and seasonings, with an egg to cement the forcemeat. Place the crappit or stuffed heads on end, in the bottom of a buttered stewpan; pour the fish-soup gently over them; cover and boil a half-hour. Rizzared Haddocks.—This receipt we consider the ne plus ultra of haddock-cookery. Clean thoroughly a Cromarty Bay or Moray Firth moderate-sized haddock. Rub it with a very little salt. Hang it on a Jish-haTce^ and next morning cut off the head, take out the back-bone, skin, dust with flour, and broil it and serve with slices of fresh butter. In two days its flavour will have deteriorated. It is an excel- lent light dish for a convalescent. The tail-cut of boiling haddocks may be rizzared, 748. Sheep^s-Head Broth.^—Choose a large, fat, young * This national preparation was wont to be a favourite Sunday-dinner dish in many comfortable Scottish families. Where gentlemen " killed their own mutton," the head was reserved for the Sunday's broth ; and to good family customers and victuallers^ a prime tujp's head was a Saturday's gift from the butchers with whom they dealt. By the way, nationally speaking, we ought to say Jlesliers, as our countrymen would, till very lately, have been mortally offended at the designation "butcher." Sheep's-head broth is reckoned medicinal in certain cases ; and was fre- quently prescribed as an article of diet by the celebrated Dr Cullen. This dish has furnished whole pages to Joe Miller and his right witty contemporaries. In one of the most pleasing pieces of biography that ever was written, " The Life of Lady Grizel Baillie," there is an amusing *' Sheep's-head anecdote," which at once affords a glimpse of the simplicity of the National manners, and of the dexterity and good sense of the affec- tionate and very juvenile heroine. Her father, Sir Patrick Home, pro- scribed after the Restoration, was hidden near his own mansion,—his lady and his daughter Grizel alone being privy to his place of concealment. It was the duty of this young girl, not only to carry food to her father during the night, but to abstract these supplies from the dinner-table, so that neither the servants nor younger children might be aware that there was an invisible guest to feed. Her inordinate appetite and stratagems to pro- cure food became the cause of many jokes at table ; and one day, when a sheep's head—a favourite dish with Sir Patrick—was produced, she had