184 CHAP. VII. FISH. cayenne, and arranged with the tails meeting in the centre of a flat baking-dish, covered with fine bread-crumbs, over which plenty of fresh butter is laid, and baked for from ten to twelve minutes. Serve as above, placing the baking-dish concealed in another, in which a napkin is puffed. Garnish with fried parsley and lemon sliced. 146. To Broil, Bake, or Fry Sprats, Smelts, etc. Run a long bird-skewer or a common knitting-needle through the eyes. Dust them with flour, and have a hot gridiron rubbed with mutton-suet or chalk, and a clear fire. Serve them hot. These fish will pickle or bake, and eat well cold. Bake them with butter, and a high seasoning of mixed spices and vinegar. They will keep for a week.— Another way. Dip them in a batter made of two eggs, and bread- crumbs mixed with flour and seasonings, and fry them. Serve them on fried parsley. — Obs. Imitation-Anchovies may be made of sprats cured in a strong pickle of bay and common salt, sal 'prunella^ sugar, and pounded pepper, with a little cochineal to colour them. In Scotland, sprats, gar- vocks, etc., and herrings, are roasted on the girdle which toasts the family oat-bread, and this plan answers very well in cottage economy.—See White Bait, No. 156^. 147. To Dress Eed Herrings, Sardinias, and Buffed and Pickled Herrings. Skin, open, and trim red herrings. If old and dry, pour some hot small-beer or water over them, and let them steep a half-hour, or longer if hard. Yarmouth bloaters seldom need soaking. Broil them over a clear fire at a considerable distance; or before the fire; rub them with good oil or fresh butter while broiling, and rub on a little more when they are served. Serve them very hot, with scooped cold butter; or with melted butter and mustard, and mashed potatoes or parsnips. Steep Pickled Herrings from one to two days and nights, changing the water if they be very salt. Hang them to dry upon a stick pushed through the eyes, and trim and broil them when wanted. These are called buffed herrings in Scotland, and are served at breakfast or supper.