MACARONI AND OTHER PASTE SOUPS. 135 included the Welsh Leek-porridge^ and the Scottish Nettle- kail, and Pan-kail. But these mild, wholesome, and even elegant potages are, as we have seen, not necessarily maigre. In preparing them, the main object of the cook is to have the soup of a fine clear, pale-green colour, which is obtained by the expressed juice of spinage, parsley, green onions, or pea-shell liquor, using the colouring ingredient most suitable to the nature of the soup. Vegetable soups require a good deal of pepper, and are improved by a spice of cayenne. They will not keep. If the vegetables are bitter, a bit of sugar will help to correct that quality, and is a good addi- tion.—See No. 75. These maigre vernal compositions found little favour in the eyes of the elder members of the Cleikum Club, who thought them only fit for boarding-school girls and young Cockney poets. They, however, afford an elegant and wholesome variety, and are now well prepared at the shops, like richer soups. 74. Macaroni and other Paste Soups. This elegant class of soups is coming fast into general favour and use, and is easily prepared. They are Macaroni, Vermicelli, Semoulina, Nouille, and Cagliari, and with them may be classed sago and tapioca soup, and the varieties of rice and arrow-root soups; also what is thickened with the Canna starch called Tons les mois. These soups should be of a pale sherry colour. Vermicelli-Soup.—Break two ounces of vermicelli into minute bits ; soak, blanch, and drain it; drop it lightly, and by degrees, into two quarts of clear boiling gravy-soup; scum, and stew gently for from five to ten minutes, but not so long as to run it into lumps; the French put a great deal of vermicelli and other pastes into their potages. To ver- micelli-soup they sometimes add dressed young pease or asparagus-tops. Macaroni-Soup.—Throw three ounces of fresh macaroni into boiling water; boil for eight minutes, or ten if hard; when it is done, drain and cut it into thin delicate rings, and drop it into two quarts of clear gravy-stock: serve grated Parmesan along with this, and all soups made with Italian pastes. Cagliari-Soup is made precisely as the above; but as the