360 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. pan in the gravy. When firmed with frying, moisten with good stock and a pint of red wine, and season with parsley, young onions, salt, pepper, a few mushrooms or catsup, or mushroom-powder. Let the meat stew slowly till done, and skim off the fat. Now lift all that is good of the hare, and also the bacon that you put aside, into a clean stewpan. Strain the gravy over this, and next put to the civet the bruised liver, the blood, and some small mushrooms and onions ready cooked. Do not let it boil fast, and stir lest the blood curdle. Put the gravy in which the mushrooms and onions were cooked to the civet when it (the gravy) has been well boiled down.—Ohs, If cooking for palates trained on the Continent, add to the seasonings a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and one or even two cloves of garlic. The civet is similar to the old Scotch hare-soup. Pick out the herbs and serve. 618. Civet of Roehuclc.—Make this exactly as civet of hare, but without the blood of the animal. Use for it small cutlets of the neck and breast. It is an admirable way of dressing lean, dry venison.—See No. 503. French Made-Dishes of Beef. 619. Boeufd la Flamande.—See No. 394. 620. Boeufs de Chasse, No. 410; Beef-Steaks with Potatoes, No. 39. 621. Palais de Boeuf d V Italienne^ Beef Palates with Ita- lian-Sauce. — Rub the palates with salt; parboil and skin them. Cut them into scollops, not too large, and stew them very slowly in a brown Italian-sauce well thickened by previous boiling down. Add a squeeze of lemon, and serve them.—Ohs. This will be found an exceedingly good way of dressing palates. See also Nos. 395, 406, and 588. 622. Entre Cote de Boeuf — By this is meant what lies under the long ribs, or those thick slices of delicate meat which may be got from between them. Cut this into narrow steaks. Flatten and broil these, and either serve the steaks d, la Biftik Anglais, No. 38, or with Sauce hachee, No. 591, under them. 623. Langue de Bceuf en Miroton,—Cut a cold skinned