146 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. blades of mace, a bay-leaf or two, a fagot of parsley, with two or three sprigs of basil, thyme, marjoram, and a head of celery. Simmer slowly in a little strong stock-broth; and when the juices are well drawn out, add more stock, till two quarts are in. Simmer for another hour at least, and strain the soup. Take the best of the meat from the bones, pound it, moistening with a little of the soup. Pound also some soaked crumb of bread, or use rice-flour, and put this to the soup, which must now be boiled up, seasoned to your taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, catsup, and red wine; or, for variety, keep the best pieces, if the hare be large, to serve in the tureen, cut into mouthfuls, and pound and pulp the others, which added, will make the soup have quite enough of consistence; more celery may be given, or a seasoning of the seed bruised, and tied in a muslin bag. The best pieces to serve are fillets cut off along the back- bone, which need not be boiled nearly so long as the other parts, if to be thus served. 89. Pigeon-Soup, or Game-Soup. Make a clear gravy-stock of four pounds of lean beef, or scrag and shanks of mutton, two small turnips, celery, two onions, and four quarts of water boiled down to three. Put to this stock the gizzards, crops, and livers of four or five pigeons or partridges, or a pheasant. The birds must be neatly trussed as for boiling, seasoned inside with ground white pepper and salt, and flattened on the breast. We prefer them divided, using the trimmings for stock. Dredge them with flour, and brown them nicely in a frying-pan. Thicken the stock with butter kneaded in browned flour; strain and season it with white pepper, salt, and a little mace, and let the pigeons stew in it for twenty-five minutes or more, taking off the scum as it rises. Throw a few toasted sippets into the tureen before dishing the soup. Either of the above receipts applies to joints of rabbits, which make a good soup, with suitable seasonings. 90. Superlative Game-Soup, or Venison-Soup. This soup is made of all sorts of black or red game, or of venison or wild rabbits. Skin the birds, carve and trim them neatly, and fry the pieces along with a few small slices of lean ham, sliced onions, carrots, and turnips, a little of