295 OF DRESSED BEEF. 428. Bulhle and Squeak.—This dish is made either of cold roast or boiled beef or of pork ; and is best of salt meat. Cut the slices thin, and not very large; fry them in butter with plenty of pepper, and keep them warm before the fire. Meanwhile chop and fry, or braise some boiled cabbage, carrot, or onions, and lay this on the slices of beef; or heap the cabbage high in the middle of the dish, and lay the meat round it. For sauce, chop and stir a few slices of pickled cucumber and onion into a little thick melted butter, and add a teaspoonful of made-mustard. Fried beetroot, eggs, and even apples are used. A ragout added of any left oysters, mushrooms, or onions, makes this scrap-dish superb. 429. Buhhle and Squeak of Veal.—Make this as of beef, but use acids instead of mustard seasoning.—Ohs. This dish deserves to be better known. Spinage may be substituted for cabbage. 430. Inky Pinky.—Slice boiled carrots; slice also cold roast-beef, trimming away outside and skins. Put an onion to a good gravy (drawn from the roast beef-bones, if you like), and let the carrots and beef simmer slowly in this; add vinegar, pepper, and salt to taste. Thicken the gravy, —take out the onion, and serve hot, with sippets, or as any other hash. 431. To Pot Beef Veal, or Game.-Ssilt a piece of lean succulent beef for two days. Drain it, season it well, and afterwards bake it in a slow oven, or stew it in an earthen- ware jar, placed in a vessel of boiling water. When tender, drain off all the gravy, and set the meat before the fire, that all the moisture may be drawn out. Pull it to pieces, and beat it in a Wedgewood mortar with mixed spices and oiled fresh butter, till it becomes of the consistence of mellow Stilton cheese.—Ohs. This is mostly made of beef dressed for other purposes,—such as beef from which gravy is drawn, or the remains of any joint that cannot be otherwise used. It may be flavoured with anchovy, mushroom - powder, minced eschalot, chervil or tarragon, dried and pulverized, if the potted meat is not to be long kept. The longer it is beat in the mortar the better it will eat and keep. Put it into small potting cans, and cover with plenty of clarified butter, which butter Avill afterwards be useful for frying meat, pie -crust, etc.—Game to be sent to distant places may