CHAP. III.—ROASTING. 84 gravies to enrich sauces, ragouts, and hashes. Of this, veal gravy is the most delicate, and it is accordingly in great requisition among good cooks; but beef gravy is fit for almost all purposes. Some sensible, economical cooks boil legs of fowls, turkeys, shanks of mutton, etc., etc., for an hour; and have thus, they allege, a basis for broth and an improved roast. The Nabob, in the course of his discursive readings, though he was more a practical man than one of research, discovered that many things had been anciently used for bastings which the simplicity of modern practice rejects. But these antique refinements were all rejected, except butter and claret, which, for venison, and the dry meats that some- times go under that generic name, were used at the Cleikum with unanimous approbation. Much more did our Nabob, in the fulness of his heart and stomach, on this day of his triumph, say on the subject of roasting in general, and on this his Essay roast in particular, which we must take the liberty to skip, and come at once to the receipts for roasting. 17. To Roast a Sirloin of Beef. Study well the above discourse, and bear in mind that, next to hroiling^ roasting is the most difficult of all elemen- tary culinary processes: and, when well done, is valued accordingly. Instruction may teach even a bungler to com- pound a tolerable made-dish^ which, if faulty, may be im- proved, disguised, or altered. But care alone, and a little practice, can make a dexterous roaster. Give a large sirloin from four to five hours to roast; and then The great Sirloin of Beef, august he stands, In his pure native splendour full array'd! No knife hath touch'd him; never mortal hands Have dared his majesty of form invade. For thee he lives: his death-pang it will sweeten First for thee to be carved—first by thee to be eaten I HoAST Beep is garnished with horseradish, finely scraped, and laid round the dish in light heaps; and it is served with Yorkshire pudding, or potato pudding and horseradish-sauce.* The fillet, tender-loin^ or English * Dr Redgill, who rather relished a joke after the serious business of dinner was despatched, holding it as a maxim that a moderate laugh aided digestion, was wont to say, that Yorkshire Pudding was the true squire of