218 CHAP. VIII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 216. Potatoes. Some liumorous writer pities those people who lived before the publication of the Waverley Novels and the intro- duction of potatoes,—that root of superlative excellence and unbounded utility, which once—alas the day !—took its honoured place on every dining table or stool in the three kingdoms, and went far to equalize the dining enjoyments of every grade of society. There are a great many varieties of potatoes, and fully as many ways of cooking them; but when all ways are tried, simple boiling, when well done, is found the best way. Count RuMFORD, Sir John Sinclair, and other writers upon economics, have multiplied receipts for dressing this valuable root; but we would advise such of our readers as are potato- fanciers, rather to follow the practice adopted in the cabins or cottages in their neighbourhood, than any printed formula whatever. New potatoes are rarely seen in their utmost perfection save in such situations, when, just ripe and freshly dug, they are well washed and scrubbed, suited in size, and boiled in hot haste, with scanty water, changed once at least, and abundance of salt, and in a vessel to which poverty denies a close-fitting lid. As soon as they are ready, the water is poured off; a few minutes of the fire evaporates all moisture, and completes the cooking; and there they lie, smoking hot, mealy, and flaky, bursting from their coats, in such guise as they are seldom seen on the tables of opu- lence. Steaming is recommended for potatoes by theoretical writers upon the subject of the kitchen; and certainly, where potatoes must be cooked on a large scale, it is very conveni- ent ; but so far as our experience goes, we will venture to affirm, that the crude, rank, deleterious juice, which makes potatoes so unfit for food in their raw state, is never so quickly nor so effectually extracted as by rapid boiling. Potatoes ought to be eaten as soon as they are boiled and dried. If they must stand, let it be by the fire, in the sauce-pan, and only partially covered, that the steams may escape as they arise. A piece of coarse calico or flannel kept for this pur- pose should be laid over the potatoes in folds, and the pot- lid on edge over this. This will absorb the moisture, and keep them hot a long while. Young potatoes ought to be fresh dug, served in their skins;—very little boiling will dress