147 OX-HEAD SOUP. each. Strain, and stew the meat gently for an hour in good fresh veal or beef stock-broth, with a head of celery cut in nice bits, a little minced parsley, and what seasonings you like.—Very small steaks of venison may be fried, as the birds, and stewed in the broth; and if the stock is made of any venison trimmings, it will be an advantage both in flavour and strength.—Ohs. Jamaica pepper and cloves are suitable seasonings; celery, from its nutty flavour, is a proper vegetable for hare and game soups. Take out the ham before dishing. Careme likes turkey and turkey- giblets better for game-soup, than either pheasants or par- tridges. The pot-liquor of boiled turkey is too often wasted in English kitchens. 91. Ox-head Soup. Called Hessian-Soup and Ragout^ Clean, rub with salt, and afterwards soak in salt and lukewarm water for four hours, the half of a fat bullock's head, and a cow-heel. Wash them well, and break and put them into a large pot with seven quarts of water and a spoonful of salt. Skim very carefully, and retard the boil- ing by throwing in a quart of cold water, which will throw up more scum. When the meat is tender, but not over- done, take it out and strain the broth. When cold, take off the cake of fat,^ and the oil below it, and put to the soup a pound of pease. When it has boiled an hour, add six carrots, four turnips, half a dozen onions, a bunch of parsley, and a dessert-spoonful of celery-seed tied up in muslin. Season witk pepper, salt, and cayenne, and boil till the vegetables are tender. This makes an excellent broth, nutritious and palatable, and the cut meat may either be served in it, or as a ragout. But a little more trouble fits this dish to appear at any family-dinner, and entitles it, made thus, to the appellation of Hessian-Soup and Ragout:—When the pease and vegetables put in the soup, as above described, are soft enough to pulp, strain it, and rub them through a sieve to the soup, which will now be nearly of the consistency of thin pease-soup. If not thickened enough, add flour or This is the preparation on which Young Mrs Roberts was wrecked at the first of her famous " Three Christmas Dinners."—See Edinhurqh Tales. t This will keep for frying, make a cheap soup, or Scotch Icail-brose or hrewis.