448 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. serve with sauce, No. 834^.—Ohs, This pudding will keep a long while, and in this its utility consists; it may either be fried or broiled in slices, or warmed up in a fresh cloth. It will take long to get hot quite through if re-warmed whole. If made with meat instead of suet it will eat cold: or if mince-meat, No. 815, is used with the addition of bread- crumbs. Adding to a pound of mince-meat three ounces of dry panada, and mixing up the whole with a glass of spirits, and the grate and juice of a lemon and three beat eggs, and boiling for three hours, you have an excellent Hunter's Mince-meat-pudding. 836. Plain Bread-Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over what will fill a breakfastcup of bread crumbs. Let them soak covered till cold, and mash smooth with a spoon. Sweeten this to taste. Add to it four eggs, well beat, the size of an egg of butter, and season with cinnamon and nut- meg. Stir in two ounces of currants picked and plumped, or a few cut raisins : or the pudding may be made very rich by the addition of blanched and chopped almonds, candied citron and orange peel, with more raisins and currants. Boil it in a buttered basin, or bake it in a deep dish. Pounded sweet or plain biscuit may be used instead of crumbs, and for all puddings where bread is used, sponge- cake may be employed without many eggs. A Brown Bread-pudding is made as above, but plainly; and also a Save-all or Crust-pudding. Small bread-puddings may be baked in buttered cups.—The French have their, or our, Brit-poudin, as they term it, made with sundry additions and variations, of w^hich the most showy is giving the pudding a raised or Souffle look, by lightly stirring in the whipt whites of the eggs the instant before putting the pud- ding to bake, and sifting sugar as glaze over the solid froth. 837. Bice-Pudding.—Wash well in several waters, and pick a half-pound of the best rice. Boil it slowly in a little water for a few minutes, pour off, and put a pint and a half of milk to it with a roll of lemon-peel. Stir it constantly, to prevent it from sticking. When quite soft, pour it into a dish, and mix two ounces of fresh butter, or of thinly shred suet with it; and when cool, three or four beat eggs, sugar to taste, and a seasoning of cinnamon, nutmeg, or lemon. Cover the edges of a flattish pie-dish with paste.