131 SCOTCH BKOWN SOUP—WHITE SOUPS. 65. The Old Scotch Brown Soup. Make the stock as directed for clear gravy-soup, but brown the meat a little more, and, when the stock is ready, put to it two pounds of rump steaks, in small cutlets, nicely browned in the frying-pan, but drained from the frying-fat. Simmer the steaks in the soup for an hour; strain it; add a small glassful of catsup, with salt, pepper, and cayenne; slip toasted sippets into the tureen, and, skimming off any filmy fat, serve the soup with the steaks in it. Without the steaks, which one now rarely sees, this is a plain hrown soup, 66. Plain White Stock for several kinds of Soup, The French Blonde de Veau, or Veal Broth, Have a large knuckle of veal broken, and to this put any fresh poultry trimmings you have, and a few slices of lean ham, a carrot, three onions, and a blade of mace. Moisten these (when laid in a nice stew-pan over which butter has been rubbed) with a little good broth or water. When the jelly is partly drawn out, and the meat tinged a little, prick it all over with a sharp knife to let the juices flow, and add more clear broth or water till you have enough. Add a bunch of parsley and onions, and a large teaspoonful of white peppercorns ; boil and skim, and when the soup is ready, skim again and carefully strain it. Cooked rice or vermicelli is put to this soup. If a white colour is wished, thicken w^ith arrow-root, and add gradually, before serving, a pint or less of hot sweet cream.—N.B. Always boil cream before putting it to any soup or sauce, and stir carefully till it again boil. Keep the soup hot in a hain marie, or pot of water. 67, The Old Scotch White Soup, or Soup a la Eeine,* Take a large knuckle of veal, well broken and soaked, a nice fowl skinned, or two chickens, a quarter-pound of well- coloured, lean, undressed bacon, two sprigs of lemon-thy me, three onions, a carrot, celery, a white turnip, and a few wdiite peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Boil for about two hours; skim repeatedly and carefully during * This soup was introduced, or rather revived in Scotland, "by Hume the historian, after his residence in Paris; see his letters to Adam Smith, on his culinary experiments, in Burton's Life of Hume.