LOBSTER, HAUT GOUT—TO ROAST A LOBSTER. 193 the coral and the spawn, in a regular manner in layers or alternate pieces, so that when sliced it may have that marbled appearance, that look of mosaic work, which so much commends the taste of the cook. Press the layers into a potting-can, and bake, covered with butter, in a slow oven for about a half-hour. When cold, take oif the butter, pack the meat in small potting-cans, and pour the butter again clarified over it.—Ohs. What is left of this butter will be very relishing for sauces. Potted lobster may be dressed as a fricassee in a Bechamel or cream-sauce, or eaten cold. Lobsters for sauce, when the fish are dear or out of season, may be preserved in this way. To pot Shrimps.—Shell as many fresh shrimps as will fill a pint basin. Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a small saucepan, which season pretty highly with a blade of mace, a particle of cayenne, and a very little nutmeg. Let the shrimps gently heat through, and soak in the butter for a quarter of an hour, but not boil. Pot, as other things, in very small shallow potting-cans. When cold, pour a little melted butter over, and cover them closely. N.B.—If to be kept for sauce, pot at least three pints; but suit the seasonings to that purpose, and use no nutmeg. 167. Lobster, Haut Gout,—By H. Jekyll, Esq, Pick the firm meat from a parboiled lobster or two, and take also the inside, if not thin and watery. Season highly with white pepper, cayenne, pounded mace, and cloves, nutmeg, and salt. Take a little well-flavoured gravy—for example, the jelly of roast veal—a few tiny bits of butter, a spoonful of soy, or walnut-catsup, or of any favourite flavoured vinegar, and a spoonful of red wine. Stew the cut lobster in this sauce for a few minutes.—Obs, This is one of those delicate messes which the gourmet loves to cook for himself in a silver dish over a spirit-lamp, the preparation of the morsel being to him the better part of it. 168. To E-oast a Lobster. When parboiled, rub it with plenty of butter, and lay it in a Dutch oven, or before the fire ; baste it till it froth; dredge lightly with flour, and baste again.