71 LEG OF MUTTON SCRAG OF MUTTON. celery cut in fillet, and a little finely-shred parlsey, to the broth; return the mutton, and boil gently for a half-hour longer. A gigot is an excellent and most economical joint, capable of being turned to many purposes. It may be dressed as chops, and the best balmy, mellow, barley, or rice, broth made of what remains. It may also be roasted, or baked, or cured as ham, or, if a large gigot, a fillet may be stuffed and roasted, and the knuckle used for barley or rice broth. In French cookery, parsley, onions, and sometimes a clove or two of garlic, are boiled with this favourite joint. It is then glazed and served on a Sauce Espagnole,—See French Cookery^ Part III. Chap. ii. 4. To Boil a small Scrag: of Mutton, or Back Hibs: An Eco7iomical Dish. Wash, trim nicely, and simmer from five to seven pounds of the necl^ slowly for two hours, making broth as in last receipt. Use the trimmed-off bones. The scrag may be taken up and finished with egg and bread crumbs, in the American oven, like dressed lamb's head, thus making a nice cheap family dish, and soup also. Garnish the dish with carrot, or turnips cut; and pour over the meat caper-sauce, or parlsey and butter. Serve mashed turnip or cauliflower.—Ohs. Pouring the sauce over boiled dishes, besides improving their appearance, is often to be preferred, because, in carving, the juices of the meat, the natural sauce, flow out and mingle with the prepared relish, " each improving each." This joint, in point of economy, comes next, if not be- fore the gigot. The scrag (Captain Booth's favourite dish —vide Fielding'^s Amelia) or the neck alone makes excel- lent barley or rice broth, or it will stew. The ribs will do the same; or make Chops, Curry, Haricot, Irish Stew, or Pie.—See Made-Dishes of Mutton.—French cooks take two necks for this dish, but their mutton, lamb, and veal, are generally smaller than ours. They saw off the bones ; steep the meat in olive-oil, with pepper, salt, and sliced onion; and lard it with blanched minced parsley. A boiled shoulder of mutton, or of veal, is very good with white onion-sauce poured over it. A sciag of lamb is cooked as above.