CHAP. IV.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 598 while by an open fire, should wear a verv wide and thick worsted apron. While swaying her body, lifting off and on heavy stewpots, it is surprising that her inflammable cotton apron so often escapes the flames. If the cook cuts herself, she should let the wound, if a slight one, bleed freely for a while, and then sponge or soak the part in tepid water. Then gently press its edges together, sponge up the blood, and bind on a pledget of lint dipped in water, which is to be fastened with strips of adhesive plaster, and allowed to remain for three or four days till the edges adhere. Tincture of Arnica is now kept in families as a specific for various accidents. Twelve drops are put to a wine-glass of water; and the injured part is covered with the solu- tion, and carefully bound up to exclude the external air. Doubtful. 1254. To Extinguish Fire in Female Dresses.—So many fatal acci- dents arise from light dresses catching fire that every Manual in- tended for women should contain the following necessary cautions:— 1. Let it be early and diligently impressed upon the mind of every girl, that flame uniformly tends upwards; that every article of dress will consume much more rapidly if held upright, than if laid along the floor; and that her life may depend on her presence of mind, should her clothes unhappily catch fire. 2. Give instant alarm by pulling the bell (which is generally near the fireplace), by screaming or any other means; but, if possible, avoid opening the door; for both the movement of the figure, and the current of air admitted, will increase the rapidity of the flames. 3. The alarm may be given while the female is at the same instant sitting down by the rug, at- tempting to tear off the articles of dress which are on fire, and rolling herself on a sofa or in the rug or carpet to smother the flame. If the latter is nailed down, she may easily, when on the floor, tear it up. She may also catch at any piece of baize, or vessel of water within reach; and, if very active, may even turn her clothes over her head, and thus arrest the progress of the flames. 4. The most ready and effectual assistance a spectator in general can give, will be to turn the clothes of the sufferer over her head, and hold them firm thus, till wrappers, cold water,' etc., are procured. 5. A man may quickly strip off his coat and wrap it round the female. 6. Let the sufferer, even if she fail to pull away the burning articles, or to extinguish the fire by rolling on the floor, and wrapping herself on the hearth-rug (which is generally always ready), still protect her bosom and face, by lowering her face and crossing her hands and arms over her face and breast.