465 PANCAKES AND FRITTEES. and a little nutmeg. Stir in milk enough to reduce this to a thick batter. Make a small fryingpan hot, melt a little butter in it, pour it out, and wipe the pan; or rub it with a buttered cloth. Put in a very small piece of butter, and when it covers the pan and froths, a ladleful of batter: toss round the pan to diffuse this equally. Run a knife round the edges, and turn the pancake. Brown very lightly on both sides, double the pancakes up to keep hot, or roll them lightly up as a collar. Serve a few at a time, hot and hot, with grated sugar and sliced lemon. They are good cold, but should then be thicker; have some preserve wrapped in them, and be cut as sweet sandwiches. 879. Oxford-Pancakes.—Beat six eggs, add a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of flour, and three ounces of butter, if wanted rich. Sweeten with sugar, and season with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon. Sift sugar over them as they are fried, and serve with a cut lemon, to be squeezed over them when helped at table.* 880. Irish Pancakes,—These are made as above, but with more flour and sugar. 881. Eice Pancakes or Fritters.—Boil four ounces of rice- flour in a quart of cream, or very rich milk, till it is as thick as pap. Stir in a quarter-pound of sugar. When cold mix thoroughly together four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and eight beat eggs. If not stiff enough, add more flour and sugar, and fry the batter either as fritters or pancakes. Serve with a little melted butter, wine, and sugar, poured hot into the dish. 882. French Frying Batter for plain Fritters of Fruity and for frying Vegetables.—Mix with a half-pint of milk and water two ounces of butter, and into it rub smoothly, work- ing it long, ten ounces of flour. When to be used add the whites of two eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and use it quickly that the batter may be light. The batter may be seasoned if for vegetables, or sweetened if for fruit. Eng- lish frying Batter.—Put a half-pound of sifted flour into a * In the Cleikum, and probably in some other old-fashioned inns and Scottish families, pancakes were wont to be served with a layer of currant- jelly between the folds,—a practice for which much might be said by those familiar with it. Is not this the omelette d la Celestine or au confiture^ of our old allies, still lingering in remote places of the country? Pancakes are still better with apricot-marmalade.—P.T. u 2