322 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES and black pepper, a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and for some things a slice of celery, for others a couple of bay- leaves. Skim the stew, and, keeping the lid quite close, let it simmer for three quarters of an hour or more, accord- ing to the age and size of the birds. Strain off the gravy, leaving the fowls in the stewpan to keep hot. Take off the cake of fat which will soon form, and thicken the gravy with brown roux, or butter rolled in browned flour till it is as thick as stiff pancake-batter. Add to it a glass of white wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Dish the fowls, ducks, or rabbits, whichever your dish may be, and pour the sauce hot over them, garnishing with fried bread.—Obs. The sauce must be well worked, and ought to be smooth, thick, and well coloured. It may be made without wine. 5172. Chicken-Cutlets.—Cut the bone from the breasts and legs of two or three chickens. Skin the separated joints and fillets, and shape neatly, and season them with " chicken fixings —i. e., cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper. Brush with egg, dip in melted butter and crumbs, and fry them in a saute-pan, turning often. Meanwhile have a seasoned gravy drawn from the bones and trimmings, and a bit of lemon-rind. Strain it, add to it a little mush- room-powder, and thicken with butter rolled in flour, and a liaison of one egg. Dish the cutlets high, and pour the sauce over them. 518. To Braise Chickens or Pigeons with Green Pease, Mushrooms J or Asparagus.—Bone them, and stuff them with forcemeat, as at No. 516. Fry a few sliced onions in a stew- pan; add to these the bones and other trimmings of the chickens, with a broken shank of veal or mutton, a fagot of herbs, a few blades of mace, and a pint of good stock. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then with paper. Stew very slowly over embers, or on a stove, for an hour and a half. Take them up, and keep them hot. Strain the braise-gravy, and boil it down quickly to a jelly. Glaze the chickens with it, and serve with a brown fricassee of mush- rooms, or over asparagus, or a puree of green pease.—See French Cookery, from No. 664 to 671. 519. J[ Continental Method of Dressing Cold Roast-Fowls, —Beat up two yolks of eggs with butter, mace, nutmeg, etc. Cut up the fowls, dip them in this, and roll the egged pieces