488 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. and pour in the mixture. Cook it over a slow fire not to scorch. Turn it carefully out. Dredge fine sifted sugar over it, and set it in the oven to rise.— Ohs, Souffies may be flavoured in many ways.—Ratafia-cake pounded, or pounded almonds, may be added to their mixtures.— See No. 572. 959. Souffle of Apples in a Bice-border,—Prepare the rice as for Gateau de Biz, No. 1013, but keep it thicker by using less milk. Raise the border three inches round your dish, egging the edge to make it adhere. Make it smooth and of a neat form. Mix with fresh apple-jam, very sweet, the beat yolks of six eggs and two ounces of butter. Stir this over the fire to cook the eggs. To this put the whites of eight or ten eggs whisked to a snow. Mix gently. Fill the dish, and bake in a moderate oven till the souffle rises light. Serve instantly.—See Nos. 577, 1002. Observations on Sweetmeats and Preserves. To preserve the fruits that are in common use, and to make those sweetmeats which are oftenest wanted in private families, is justly considered a point of good housewifery; for common preserves may be both cheaper and more nicely made at home than where they are manufactured wholesale for the market. Besides, many families have gardens. A little observation and practice will soon give the cook or mistress of a family sufTicient skill to prepare the sugar for these things;—attention and cleanliness do the rest. The sugar for preserves ought, generally speaking, to be of the first quality. It ought also to be in sufficient quantity, for it is shortsighted economy to make paltry savings, at the risk of injuring commodities which are costly, however they may be managed. Never squeeze fruit too much; or take merely the juice that flows freely; and use what remains for made-wine, plain jams, or children's black butter, No. 979. Unless preserves are bright, and of a fine colour, they lose half their value; and this they never will be if the fruit is squeezed till the skins and seeds are broken. Let sieves be dipt in, and jelly-bags wrung out of hot water before using them, or they will absorb a great quantity of the jelly. Sweetmeats are usually kept in small pots of earthenware, stoneware, or glass, with papers steeped in brandy put over them as soon as they are cold, and a layer of sugar sifted either above or below these papers, or both.