505 PLUM, RICE, AND SEED CAKES. look too thick, add a little sweet wine, or more cream. Pour it into a buttered pan, and let it rise before the fire before it is put into the oven, which should be strongly heated. 1009. A rich Plum-Cake,—Take equal weight of cleaned currants and flour; about a pound of each will make a cake of good size; a pound and a half will make a large one. Beat twelve ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Beat also sixteen eggs to a cream with a whisk in a pan, and set them over the fire, or in a vessel of hot water, with a pound of sifted sugar, whisking all the time. When warm, take them off, and continue to beat till they are cold, when the butter will be well mixed with them. Add the currants. Put to this a half-pound of candied citron, lemon, and orange peel cut in strips, a half-ounce of bitter almonds beat to a paste with a little sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced the long way, half an ounce of pounded cinnamon and mace, and a quarter pint curagoa, or any highly- flavoured liqueur, or plain brandy. Beat all the ingredients for a half-hour. Paper a hoop and pour in the cake. It will take from two to three hours, when the oven may be cooled, and the cake placed in it to get dry.* 1010. Rice-Coke,— Mix half a pound of sifted rice-flour with a half-pound of loaf-sugar sifted, and put to this six eggs well whisked and strained. Season with a little ratafia and orange-flower-water, and a drop or two of essence of lemon, or some fine-grated rind of lemon. Beat the whole together for twenty minutes, and fire in a quick oven.— Ohs. This is an excellent cake for a trifle, but it will not keep long. A small proportion of wheat-flour should be mixed with the rice-flour. 1011. A fine Seed-Cake.\—Have a pound and a half of flour, and sixteen eggs well whisked. Mix with them a pound and a half of fine sifted sugar, and whisk them thoroughly together. Throw in a half-pound of cut candied citron, lemon, and orange peel, and four ounces of almonds blanched and cut. Mix this with the dried flour, and twelve ounces of butter beat to a cream. Season with cinnamon * Sal volatile is sometimes used to make cakes rise, or, more properly, to prevent them from flatteninj^, by keeping the butter from oiling. f "When," says ancient Trusser, "the wheat-seed is put into the ground, the village is to be treated with seed-cake^ pasties, and frumentie- pot." Ah! when now do villages get such treats? Y