CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. 128 tables, or on different days.* The stock being made, the cook is now in possession of a floating capital subservient to many purposes.—See Nos. 682-4. 60. Stronger Stock, The Consomme of the French Kitchen. This is the same thing, only stronger than the former broth. Take a large old fowl, or a cock, a large knuckle, or a good piece of the leg of veal, a piece of juicy beef, and any game you have to spare ; put four ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and then the cut meat; moisten with a pint of stock. No. 59 ; let it catch the fire till the juices are drawn; then add more first stock in the proportion of a pint to the pound of meat; skim, season with a carrot, two or three onions, two cloves, some parsley, and a head of celery. Let the fowl only boil till enough done for the table, and the knuckle of veal only till done. Then again skim and care- fully strain this consomme through a fine sieve.—N.B. Ham is often ordered for these stock - broths; but unless for gravies, to enrich ragouts, or to make certain sauces, it is seldom employed. Indeed, it is more suitable to savoury gravies than to the bland, elementary liquid, from which mild soups and sauces are to be made. 61. Richer High-Flavoured Stock. Line a well-tinned stew-pan with slices of good ham; over this place slices of veal from the thick of the knuckle, and a fowl or brace of game cut to pieces. When the meat has been sweated over a slow fire till the juices have formed a glazCj moisten the whole with a quart and a half of strong stock, and season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, green onions, a blade of mace, and two cloves. Strain and thicken it, when stewed, with white or brown thickening, and keep to use in cooking. 62. Very Strong Stock, The Grand Consomme of the French Kitchen. Make this exactly as Second Stock; but, if convenient, * For hotels, clubs, regimental messes, etc., these hints are valuable; for each of these dishes, besides causing no loss, will actually be more rich boiled in the stock-pot, than if cooked separately. A fowl au gros sel, means one sprinkled, when dished, with grains of large bright salt.