418 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. Another Plain Irish Stew. —Flatten cutlets of the back-ribs. Season with pepper and (if you like) mushroom-powder. Stew with plenty of shred onions and parsley in a broth drawn from the bones, etc., and when nearly done add peeled potatoes. When a thin stew, serve in a deep dish. 765. Irish Tripe.—Cook some onions in milk and water. If large, divide them, and have plenty of them. Add the tripe, cut in strips, and thicken as much of the sauce with butter, flour, and a little mustard, as will sauce the tripe. Serve the onions in it. A little vinegar or lemon-juice may be added. See Nos. 16, 56, 265, 742. 766. Bread and Meat, or Koobbe,—We have been favoured with a receipt for this savoury preparation, which, at sea, in camp, on Indian hunting-excursions, and long marches, is found to be very convenient. Make a dough with yeast as for bread; when yeast cannot be obtained, use whites of eggs or milk. In India, cocoa-nut is used to raise the dough, and with good effect. Roll out the paste very thick, and wrap meat into it (fat meat is best) of any kind, cut and seasoned in any way that is most convenient or agree- able. The dish may then be either boiled or baked. This species of camp-cookery is carried to some perfection in India, and might be found useful in the Bush, at the Dig- gings, and our thinly-populated colonies. It is applicable to all kinds of game, poultry, and meat. Fowls thus cooked may be stuffed with hard eggs, chopped parsley, oysters, etc.; veal, with forcemeat; goose, pig, and duck, either with apples or onions, as the sauce is liked. The stuffed things must be well skewered, or sewed before they are put into the dough, which forms a crust about the meat; thus com- bining bread, meat, and sauce in one portable dish. 767. MilcoUj a South American Preparation.—This pala- table and even elegant dish somewhat resembles the Italian pastes. Potatoes and a species of pumpkin are roasted, the pulp taken out and kneaded with salt and eggs. The paste is then rolled out, cut into little bits about the size of a dollar, and boiled for a quarter of an hour in milk sweetened. 768. Le Bon Diable. — This favourite bonne louche, for which we have obtained the receipt from a lady who has contributed many valuable articles to this work, is thus pre-