204 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. far as regards colour. That homely chemistry, which does not disdain to descend to the kitchen, has indeed of late considerably assisted the cook in this department; and a few general observations will, if attended to, supply the place of long or often-repeated directions for dressing particular vege- tables. Vegetables can never be dressed too fresh, though some kinds, such as French beans and artichokes, will keep a few days, and by care all will keep for some time. They must, after being carefully cleared from insects, decayed leaves, and spoiled parts, be washed in plenty of water; they cannot be too much refreshed. Let the many-leaved lie in a pickle of salt and water, head downwards, till put to boil. This simple method will bring out insects that may lurk in the leaves. If to be kept for a few days, place the stalk-ends of cauliflower, asparagus, cucumbers, etc., in water, as in keeping cut flowers fresh. To preserve their beauty, , vegetables must be boiled alone^ in a perfectly clean, well- tinned vessel, and in abundance of boiling water. A tea- spoonful of salt of wormwood, or, better, soda, the size of a nutmeg, will not only preserve the green colour, but contri- bute to the tenderness of cabbage, savoys,* etc. A bit of sugar will sometimes be useful. Put all vegetables into soft boiling water with plenty of salt; with hard water the colour will keep better, but the quality will not improve. Boil fast, and do not cover the vessel if you desire to preserve the fine colour, but beware of smoke. In a former section it was recom- mended to boil several sorts of vegetables and roots with the meat, if salted , with which they are to be served; and this, though it may injure the colour, will certainly improve the quality—a point of greater importance. All vegetables should be enough boiled. The cook's rule of having cauliflowers crisp^\ is as inimical to health as offensive to the palate. If boiled quickly, which they ought to be, vegetables are ready when they begin to sink in the boiling water, and they will spoil every instant after that. Meat may wait a little, but vegetables will not, particularly the cauliflower kinds.— See French Cookery^ No. 698, onward^ and Butter to fry Vegetables, No. 882. * We know that the Romans used nitre in boiling vegetables, •f If cooks and ladies will have their cauliflowers m'sp, as they call it, why not serve them raw, and then eaters will be aware of them.—P. T.