CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 332 dishes as Hors d^ceuvres^ i.e. relishes. Canapes are also made of skates' livers, and other things, as the above Hors d^ceuvres. 542. Pork-Sausages.—Mince the fat and lean of pork, keeping out skins and gristles, and season it well with salt, black and Jamaica ground pepper, and chopped sage. Clean and half fill the guts, and fry the sausages. Sausage-meat of all sorts may be cemented with egg, and cooked either in rolls, i.e. cannelons^ or in small cakes. 543. Oxford-Sausages.—Take equal quantities of veal and pork, mince them, and add a half of the weight of beef- suet ; mix and season this well, as directed above, and add, if to be cooked the same day, a small quantity of the crumb of fresh bread, steeped in water.—Ohs. A chopped anchovy is thought an improvement to these sausages. Lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, lemon-thy me, savory sweet marjoram, and basil, formerly used for these compositions, are now getting obsolete. 543'^. Oxford-John.—Cut thin small collops from a leg of mutton, and clear them of fat and sinews. Season to your taste, and put into a small stewpan in which a good lump of butter (proportioned to the collops) has been melted. Stir with a wooden spoon until the collops are three parts done, when add gravy in proportion to the quantity, a bit of roux^ and a squeeze of lemon or a little of any flavoured vinegar you prefer. Simmer for five minutes and serve in a hash-dish with sippets. Oxford-John of Venison^ No. 502, is a superb dish. 544. Epping-Sausages.—Take equal quantities of young tender pork and beef-suet. Mince them very finely, and season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a sprinkling of sage, and some thin rind of bacon. Roll up with egg and fry. 545. Imitation Bologna-Sausages.—Take equal weight of bacon, beef, pork, and veal. Mince, and season high with pepper, salt, and sage. Fill a well-cleaned gut, and boil for an hour; or smoke and dry them for future use. 546. Beauvilliers-Sausages.—Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary; mix with it equal to a quarter of lard; add salt and fine spices; fill the skins and tie them ; hang them in wood-smoke for three days ; then cook them