864 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. wliicli a weiglit is laid, and when cold cut them into the shape you want, but let each not be above an inch and a half in size. Egg and crumb the bits, and fry them in a saute-pan, of a golden brown; and serve with a sauce made of six spoonfuls of white-stock, two of chopped mushrooms, and an onion parboiled and chopped, with salt and pepper to taste. A glass of white wine may be put to the sauce, which may be thickened with yolk of egg, and improved by cream. Tendons are dressed and dished under various names. Our No. 639 is a very good mode. They may be dished with a potato-paste border, or with sippets fried and glazed^ or not. They are also served cold, over different sauces, as Poivrade or Pauvre Homme, We have said more of this pretty dish than we should have done, if the tendons of large veal were not often lost by remaining underdone when the brisket is stewed; which, besides, cooks much better when they are cut out. 629^. To Curry Calf s Head a la Francaise,—Prepare the head as Nos. 456, 457, 458, 459. Boil a pound of rice as for curry, and dress it pyramidically in the centre of a dish. Have ready a sauce made of two acid apples and four mush- rooms sliced; a sprig of thyme, a few sprigs of parsley, a blade of mace, and four cloves. Fry these in two ounces of butter, and, when browned slightly, rub to this a large tablespoonful of curry-powder. Stir well in, and add three pints of white sauce. Boil the whole for fifteen minutes, strain into another stewpan, add white pepper, a little cayenne, and salt, and pour it hot over the hash of the head kept warm. Serve the pyramid of rice, with the top flat- tened into a well, in which the brains, cooked as No. 631, are laid. For Indians, or others, more curry-powder or curry-paste will be required, and many will prefer brown to white sauce. Instead of mushrooms, rasped cocoa-nut may be put in with the meat. See Note^ No. 154, and No. 534. 630. Calfs Brains d la Ravigote.^—Skin the brains, and carefully remove all the fibres. Soak them in several wa- ters. Parboil in salt and water, with a glass of vinegar, for * We do not consider these dishes of much importance ; hut where there is a table to furnish every day, and a cook who delights in her office, such elegant trifles may be found useful; and where good dinners are constantly given, and sauces prepared at any rate, the expense is nothing.