CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 458 A Charlotte—a French Fruit-piidding^ a Charlotte Russe^ or Friissienne, or by whatever other name it he designated, may be made of any kind of fruit, or of a mixture of such as blend well, as apricot with apple-marmalade. Cut smoothly slices of bread of nearly half an inch in thickness. Butter them richly on both sides, or dip them in melted butter, and cover the bottom and sides of a buttered plain mould with them, cutting the bread into dice or long slips, to make the whole join or dovetail compactly. Fill up the dish with apples, first stewed and seasoned as for an apple-pudding, No. 853. For the top, soak slices of bread in melted butter and milk. Cover the apples exactly with these soaked slices. Butter them again and keep them pressed down, while baking in a quick oven, with a plate and a weight placed on it. Turn out, brown with a salamander, and pour two spoonfuls of currant-jelly melted in sherry over the Charlotte.— Obs. This, turned out of the shape when baked, is sometimes in Scotland called an apple-loaf. Any kind of preserved or ripe fruit may be used instead of apples, attending to sweet- ening and seasoning appropriately. A few very thin slices of bread, soaked and buttered thus, make a good crust to a rice or other pudding. The French Charlottes^ or iced pud- dings, are of course finer than ours; we subjoin the most choice of their Iced Fuddings. 870 Yorkshire Fudding to hake under a Boast.—Mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with a pint and a half of milk, three or four beat eggs, a little salt, and also ginger, if liked. Butter a shallow tin-pan; pour the batter into it, and place it below the roast. When settling, stir up the batter; and when browned on the upper side, turn over the pudding,* first drawing a knife round the edges to loosen it. Brown the other side. It should be above an inch thick when done. This is the favourite English accompaniment to a sirloin of beef, or a loin of veal or mutton; finely-minced parsley, eschalot, onion, and also suet well beat, may be added. Yorkshire pudding, if for roast pork, should have a little minced sage. It is often served cut in strips. 871. Fotato-Fudding, to go helow a roast.—Peel, boil, and mash the potatoes^ with a very little milk, salt, pepper, and * To turn omelets or Yorkshire pudding, butter a flat tin, or stewpan lid; wliicli place over the omelet, and turn.