DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 46 spoon. The French have a small silver trowel for this pur- pose. Then' fish trowel has often one edge with teeth. In carving fish, study to preserve the beauty of the flakes. Though no directions can supply the place of observation and practice, it may be useful to tell the young carver how to use his tools, and what is expected from him. What are esteemed the most choice morsels of every dish ought to be known; for "to deal small and serve all" must be the carver's maxim. Venison fat,—the Pope's eye in a leg of mutton,—veal and lamb kidney,—the firm gelatinous parts of a cod's head,—the thin part of salmon,—the thick of turbot and other flat fish, are reckoned the prime bits.—The ribs, neck, and pettitoes of a pig,—the breast and wings of fowls,—the shoulders, rump, and back of hare and rabbit,— the breast and thighs of turkey and goose, cutting off the drum-Sticks,—the wings and breast of pheasants, partridges, and moor-game, and the legs and breast of duck, are also reckoned delicacies. There are, besides, favourite bits highly prized by some gourmands, though it is sometimes not easy to discover in what their superior excellence consists; as dry shank of mutton,—turbot fins,— cod's tongue,—the bitter back of moor-game,—the back of hare,—the head of carp. In stew-soups, meat and force-meat balls are prized. A knowledge of these things will be of use to the carver as a guide in that equitable distribution of good things, which is the most pleasing part of his duty. A person of any refinement will eat much more when his food is served in handsome slices, and not too much at once, than when a pound, clumsily cut, is laid upon his plate. To cut warm joints fairly and smoothly, neither in slices too thick, nor in such as are finically thin, is all that is required of the carver of a plain joint.* For this purpose he must be provided with a knife of suitable size having a good edge ; and it will greatly facilitate his operations if the cook has previously taken care that the bones in all joints are properly divided. It is impossible for the most dexterous carver to proceed with ease or comfort if this be neglected. Clever cooks are beginning to joint game and small poultry, and to cut the sinews with scissors, before dressing. The dishes appear at table in the usual form, but are much more * The little instrument called " An instantaneous knife-sharper" is worthy of the carver's attention.