CARROTS, GOURDS, SKIRRETS, SCONZONERAS, ETC. 211 202. Carrots, the Flemish way.—Prepare (after boiling) in nice forms, as stars, wheels, etc., and stew them in melted butter, with minced parsley, young onions, salt, and pepper. —N.B. This Vandyking throws away the best of the root, unless you keep it for some other use. 203. Fried Gourds, — Kitchiner, — Cut five or six gourds in quarters, take off the skin and pulp, stew them in the same manner as for table; when done, drain them quite dry, beat up an egg, and dip the gourds in it, and cover them well over with bread crumbs; make some hog's lard hot, and fry them a nice light colour, throw a little salt and pepper over them, and serve quite dry. 204 Another way.—Take six or eight small gourds as near of a size as possible, slice them with a cucumber-slice, ^ dry them in a cloth, and then fry them in very hot lard: throw over a little pepper and salt, and serve upon a napkin.—Ohs. These vegetables are also dressed in milk, with butter and seasonings. See No. 73. 205. Skirrets and Sconzoneras are boiled, and served with melted butter. Sconzonera,—Scrape off the rind. Steep in hot water, to extract part of the bitter, and then boil or stew as carrots. 206. ToMATAS, or Love-Apples.—These have rather gone down in France, but are like some other fashions when ebbing there, coming into vogue amongst us.—To stew. Place a layer in a nice saucepan, and pour good gravy over them till half covered; stew very gently j turn once; dish them, thicken the gravy with arrow-root, or rice-flour and cream ; or plain with flour and butter; pour it over them,— Tomatas roasted. Prepare them by cutting off the stalks, and roast in a Dutch oven, turning them ^occasionally for ten or twelve minutes.—Tomatas farced. Cut open the top of seven large ones with a cutter, and gently scoop out the inside: press the pulp through a small sieve, mixing it with a small cupful of bread-crumbs, and two ounces of butter in bits, with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Mix this thoroughly, fill the tomatas moderately, and bake for ten or twelve minutes. To this French cooks add yolks of eggs, or- grated ham, minced mushroom, or whatever is preferred for a