174 CHAP. VII. FISH. treated in this way, omitting the onion, and will, if not too soon opened up, keep for months, and be useful when fresh fish cannot be obtained. Oil should be poured over the pots to exclude the air. This is nearly the famous Spanish escaheche or fish-pickle. The Spanish preparation is simi- lar to the dish above described, with the addition of a large portion of garlic and some bay-leaves. The Spaniards eat it with ginger and salad, and sometimes stew it lightly. 127. To Crimp Cod. Boil quickly very fresh cod, cut in thin slices, or whole, in strong boiling brine for fifteen minutes (only ten if cut). Serve instantly with shrimp or oyster sauce. Cod in slices may also be fried or grilled. 128. To Dress Salt Cod, Ling, Tusk, etc. The fish must be soaked for a length of time correspond- ing to the hardness it has acquired. Soak it in cold water for a night; that done, if still hard, beat it well with a paste-roller, and brush it with a hard brush, and soak it again in lukewarm water. Let it come very slowly near to boil. When it has soaked thus for an hour and a half by the side of the fire, take up the pieces; scrape off the tough filmy outer parts, or clotted scales, but not the sTcin^ which, containing much gelatine, is the best of the fish. Place the pieces, laid skin to skin, in the stew-pan, having first trimmed them neatly from bones and films. Pour the strained liquor over them in which they have simmered; simmer for three, or, if needful, four hours longer, but never allow the fish to boil up till it is ready. Serve on a napkin, with egg-sauce or parsnips mashed with plenty of butter; mustard must never be forgotten. Garnish with hard- boiled eggs divided or in circular slices. Fillets are some- times rolled round, and tied up, taking off the threads before dishing.—Ohs. At sea, salt fish is dressed after a very palatable, if not refined fashion, by pulling it, when boiled, into flakes, and beating it up with mashed potatoes, or pars- nips and butter. In New England, where the manage- ment of dry cod is well understood, it is alternately soaked and laid on a table till sufiiciently softened, which is thought a better method than continual soaking. See Nos. 690 and 763.