407 PUDDINGS, ETC. parsley minced very fine. Cut the tripe in small cutlets, dip them in the batter, and fry in beef-dripping. If you think the batter not thick enough to cover the tripe with a fine brown crust when fried, add a little more flour to it.— See Nos. 626, 16, 56, 742. 744. Scottish Fine Puddings in Shins.—Mince apples and grate plain biscuits; take an equal weight to these of shred suet. Sweeten this with sugar, and season with grated cin- namon and nutmeg. Moisten the whole with wine or any well-flavoured liquor, and mix and fill the skins, but not too full, as the biscuit swells. Boil two hours, and serve hot.— Obs. These will keep for a week or ten days, and re-warm by boiling ; they may then be browned in the Dutch oven. —Another kind of fine skin-pudding is made of rice boiled in milk, with suet, currants, sugar, and seasonings. The suet in these puddings should not be shred too small, which makes it thaw and disappear; nor yet left in coarse lumps. —See BoudinSj No. 696. 745. Scottish Black Puddings.—Salt hog's blood when drawn; strain it; mix it with a little sweet milk or stock; stir into it shred suet and dried oatmeal, with plenty of pep- per, salt, and minced onions till pretty thick. Fill the skins, and boil and then broil as white puddings, No. 738. Savoury herbs may be added.—N.B. Blood will curdle if boiled too quick. This national preparation is much supe- rior to the English receipts.—See No. 738. Of all blood that of the hog is thought the richest, and is always em- ployed in France in houdins of this kind, which are excel- lent. The blood of the hare has the most delicate flavour of any, but is seldom to be got in suflicient quantity for pud- dings.—See BouDiNS—French Cookery^ Nos. 696, 696^. 746. Oatmeal Dumpling^ or a Fitless Cock.—This antique Scottish dish, which is now seldom seen at any table, is made of suet and oatmeal, with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and shred onions, as^ for white puddings, the mixture being bound together with an egg. It must be boiled in a cloth, like a dumpling, or a collar. 747. Crappit Heads^ or Fish vnth Forcemeat.—The origi- nal Scottish farce for fish was simply oatmeal, minced suet or butter, pepper, salt, and onions, made into a coarse force- meat, for stuffing the heads of haddocks and whitings.