536 CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. and the juice and yellow rind of four dozen Seville oranges. Ferment for three days, and cask the wine. N.B.—This wine may be improved to some tastes by substituting honey for one-third of the sugar. It may be enriched by the addition of some of the high-flavoured wines, and perfumed with ginger, bitter almonds, bergamot, citron, peach-leaves, etc., etc. The whole of the orange-rind is by some thought to give too decided a flavour; less may be taken at pleasure, and the rest used for candied chips. 1104. Orange and Lemon Wine of Raisins,—Take two pounds of loaf-sugar, one pound of Malaga raisins, and the juice and peel of a Seville orange, to each gallon of water. Add the orange-juice when the wine is nearly done ferment- ing. Lemon- Wine is made in the same manner, using the lemon in rather greater quantity than the orange. 1105. Parsnip-Wine.—To every four pounds of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put a gallon of water. Boil till they are quite soft, and strain the liquor clear off' without crushing the parsnips. To every gallon of the liquor put three pounds of loaf-sugar, and a half-ounce of crude tartar. When nearly cold, put fresh yeast to it. Let it ferment four days in a warm room, and then bung it up. N.B.—Parsnip-wine is said to surpass the other home- made wines as much as East-India Madeira does that of the Cape. So much is said for it, and on good authority, that it certainly deserves a trial. Horseradish-wine is made as above, and is recommended for gouty habits. In Ireland a pleasant table-beer is made from parsnips brewed with hops. Beet ought to make good wine. ; 1106. Ginger-Wine^ a light Cordial Wine.—To ten gallons of water, in which fifteen pounds of loaf-sugar have been dissolved, put the beat whites of six eggs; whisk this well, and boil and skim it; then put to it one pound twelve ounces of the best white ginger scraped and bruised. Boil the whole in a covered copper a half hour, to extract the flavour. When the liquor is nearly cold, put a glassful of fresh yeast into the tub. Let it ferment for three days at least, and on the second add the thin parings of four Seville oranges and six lemons. Cask it, and bottle off in six weeks, or when bright. Whisky in the proportion of one-sixth is often added in the cask. This wine may be aromatized^ as it is