58 BILLS OP PAEE. Tables should be like pictures to the sight, Some dishes cast in shade, some spread in light; Some should be moved when broken, others last Through the whole treat, incentive to the taste. King's Cookery. Bills of Fare may be varied in endless ways,—nor can any specific rules be given for selecting dishes for the table, which must depend wholly on fortune, fashion, the season of the year, local situation, and a variety of circumstances. Neatness and propriety are alone of universal obligation in the regulation of every table, from the humblest to the most sumptuous. To the credit of the age, modern fashion inclines more to a few dishes, well selected and elegantly disposed, than to that heterogeneous accumulation of good things with which notable British housewives used to conceal their table- linen. The culinary tastes of our polite neighbours are im- perceptibly rmdermining many points of our ancient national faith. At refined tables,puddings, very rich cakes, and fat meat-pies, have lost ground. Creams, jellies, and pre- served and caramelled fruits or compotes^ take their place. Fish is more simply cooked than it formerly was. Putrid game is no longer admired; and the native flavour of all viands is more sedulously preserved by a simpler and better style of cookery. The manner of laying out a fashionable table is nearly the same in all parts of the United Kingdom; yet there are trifling local pecidiarities to which the prudent housewife in middle life must attend. A centre-ornament, whether it be a dormant^ a plateau^ an ^pergne^ a candelabra.^ or a wine- vase, is found so convenient, and contributes so much to the good appearance of the table, that a fashionable dinner is now seldom or never set out without something of this kind, though a salad, or a cold ornamented raised pie, may fill the space in the first course. A very false taste is often shown in centre-ornaments. Strange ill-assorted nosegays, or monstrous bouquets of arti- ficial flowers, begin to look faded among those hot steams, which soon deprive even the more appropriate salad of its fresh and crispy appearance. The modern silver skewers and vases, or ornamental articles of family plate, carved,