549 CULINARY TERMS. Sandwiches^ a class of relishing convenient preparations, named from the noble inventor, p. 335. Sauter^ to give a light fry, or, Scottice, a leap; literal translation. Saute-pan, a thin bottomed fryingpan for quick frying. Scallops, or Scollops, small dishes of various kinds, so called from being served either in real scallop-shells, or little shapes resembling them, also things cut in this shape, Nos. 178, 668. Sippets, little bits of bread cut in various shapes, either soaked in stock, toasted or fried, to serve with meats as garnishing or borders, p. 342. Shinh, Scottish, a thin broth; also the leg or shin of beef from which stock is generally made, and also to pour a liquid from one vessel into another backwards and forwards, briskly. Stock, broths of various qualities prepared beforehand of different materials, as the basis of soups and sauces, and often called gravy. Sweat, to, to expose meat in a stewpot, cut or whole, to a slow steady heat, to extract its juices with little or no water. Tendons (sometimes tendrons), the French term for the gristly parts of the breast of veal or lamb, p. 863. Test, to, to cook a little of any farce or other thing, in order to prove its quality. Tourte, the corrupt French name for a fruit-tart, or other pie. Vanner, to, the French term for working a sauce smooth, b^ rapidly lifting it high in large spoonfuls, and letting it fall as rapidly for a length of time. Vol-au-vent, en, an elegant French mode of serving meats, particularly things dressed anew, as cold turbot, chickens, rabbits, p. 342,—also a mode of elegantly serving second-course dishes. N.B.—The measure referred to in this volume is the Imperial measure —the weight the lb, avoirdupois. CHAPTER II. MISCELLANEOUS EEOEIPTS, PKEPAEATIONS FOE THE SICK AND OONVALESOENT, AND CHEAP DISHES. Good broth with good keeping do much now and then; Good diet with wisdom best comforteth men; In health to be strong shall profit thee best ; In sickness hate trouble, seek quiet and rest. Thomas Tusser's good Huswifely Fhisich. 1114. Rice-Milk.—Wash the rice, and pick out the black parts. If milk be plentiful, it may be boiled in milk; if not, boil in water to plump and soften it, and when the water is wasted put in the milk; take care that the rice in