429 PIES OF GAME. bird a little chopped parsley mixed with the livers parboiled and minced, and some bits of butter. Cover the bottom of the dish either with a beef-steak, a few cutlets of veal, or slices of dressed bacon. Lay in the birds; put the seasoned gizzards, and, if approved, a few hard-boiled yolks of eggs into the dish. A thin slice of lean cooked ham laid on the breast of each bird is an improvement to the flavour. Cover the pie with pufF-paste, first laying a border of paste round the rim. A half-hour will bake it if small. — Ohs. It is common to stick two or three feet of pigeons or moorfow4 into the centre of the cover of pies as a label to the contents, though we confess we see little use and no beauty in the practice.—Forcemeat-balls may be added to enrich the pie; and a few chopped mushrooms are with us a favourite addi- tion. Some cooks lay the steaks above the birds, which is sensible, if not seemly. 792. Pies of Game.—Grouse or Moorfowl Pie,—If the birds are small, keep them whole ; if large, divide or quarter them. Season them highly, and put plenty of butter into the dish above and below them; or put a beef-steak into the bottom of the dish. Cover it with good puff-paste, and take care not to bake the pie too much. A half-pint of a hot sauce made of melted butter, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of claret, and poured into the pie when to be served hot, is an improvement, and does not overpower the native flavour of the game. Woodcocks and snipes^ when very plentiful, are sometimes made into pies. Clean the intes- tines, which are so highly prized. Parboil and pound them with seasonings, scraped lard, chopped herbs, and trufEes. Stuff the birds with this forcemeat. 793. A Hare-Pie, — Cut up the good parts of a hare; season and put them in a pie-dish with plenty of butter; or if to be very rich, forcemeat-balls and yolks of hard-boiled eggs. If to eat cold, which this pie does very well, fill the dish with a gravy when the top is taken off, of a kind which will jelly when cooled. 794. Chicken-Pie.—Skin and cut up, as for helping at table, as many chickens or young fowls as the size of your pie requires. Season the joints with white pepper, salt, and a little mace and nutmeg, all in fine powder. Put the pieces into the pie-dish, with thin slices of fresh ham, or veal-chops,