164 CHAP. VII. FISH. lobster sauce, are served with salmon; also plain melted butter; and where the fish is got fresh, and served in what is esteemed by some the greatest perfection,—crisp, curdy, and creamy,—it is the practice to send up a sauce tureen of the clear liquor in which it was boiled. Fennel and butter are still heard of for salmon, but are nearly obsolete. Sliced cucumber is often served with salmon, and indeed with all boiled fish. Mustard is considered an improvement to salmon when over-ripe,—beginning to spoil, in short: salmon may then be boiled with horse-radish. Garnish with a fringe of curled green parsley, and if you like, slices of lemon. Curled parsley in wreaths or tufts we consider the handsomest of all fish-garnishes. The carver must help a slice of the thick part with a smaller one of the thin, which is the fattest, and the best liked by those in the secret. Careme skins salmon,—a bad practice unless the fish is to have sauce poured over it. Scotch cooks some- times leave the scales on, which, when fresh and silvery, have a good efi'ect in contrast with the garnishing. 111. To Boil Salmon Crimp. This makes a very handsome dish, and is the way which salmon is usually dressed in places near the fisheries, where the fish is obtained quick; and also at the most fashionable English tables. The fish must be clean and scaled or not, without much cutting up the breast. Cut off the head, with about two inches of the neck; and the tail-fin, which trim with scissors, with the same quantity of fish along with it. Cut as many circular fillets of the salmon as you wish for (according to the size of the fish and the number of the company), from about two to three inches thick;—the opening of these slices, whence the entrails have been taken, must be thoroughly cleaned. Throw the whole into cold water made brackish with salt and saltpetre, as above marie as a certain means of preserving the flavour of all mj dishes." Sauces set on a hot table would soon lose both flavour and proper consis- tency. If sauce, broth, or soup, is kept by the fireside, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and sauce thickens as well as reduces. These are best managed where there is a steam range or hot plate, but may do by the fire. This is the best manner of re-warming turtle-soup: as the thick part is at the bottom of the stew-pan, this method prevents it from burning, and keeps it always good. The Maria Balnea^ for the reasons given above, does well for melting glaze, or heating up sauces.