583 BUTTER-MAKING. —"a piclde renewed from time to time," and not salt worked in by the hand, it would seem. ^ 1198. Making and Curing Butter.—Having washed and beat the butter free of buttermilk, work it up long and briskly with the hands, allowing a quarter-ounce of pounded salt to the pound. Much depends on this first thorough dashing and splashing to get rid of the butter- milk, as, without entire separation, the butter will neither taste nor keep well. Let the butter lie for twenty-four hours, or more, and then for every pound allow a half-ounce of the following mixture:— Four ounces of salt, two of loaf-sugar, and a half-quarter ounce of saltpetre. Beat them all well together, and having worked up the butter very well with this, pack it for use in stone jars or well- seasoned kits not too large. Use more sugar and less salt, if not to be long kept.—Obs. We confidently recommend this method of twice salting butter, which only requires to be known to come into general use. It effectually preserves the butter, without so much salt (where salt alone is used) being employed as to give it a briny and disagree- able tstste. Summer butter requires a little more salt than that cured in autumn; but the above proportions are used in some of the best- managed dairies in Scotland, though less will preserve the butter. Instead of strewing a layer of salt on the top, which makes a part of the butter useless for the table, use pickle, or place a layer of the above mixture in folds of thin muslin; stitch it loosely, and lay this neatly over the top, which will effectually exclude the air, and form a kind of pickle. The turnip flavour is a general complaint against butter made in winter and spring. Many experiments have been made, but we fear it is not possible wholly to remove this offensive taste. It may, however, it is said, be much ameliorated by mixing nitre, dissolved in water, with the milk, in the proportion of an ounce of nitre to ten gallons of milk. To give the cows a little straw or hay previous to their feed of turnip, is a method employed in some places for preventing the turnip flavour, and we have to commend the practice of those dairy-farmers who cut off the tops and bottoms of turnips for horses or feeding cattle, and give the milch cows only the best parts of the bulb. 1199. To Freshen Salt Butter.—Churn it anew in sweet milk,—a quart to the pound. It gains in weight. 1200. To Improve Bancid Butter.—Wash it, melt it gradually, skim it, and put to it a slice of charred toast, or some bits of charcoal. 12002. Butter on the Continent is cured by putting it, when well freed of the milk, over a slow charcoal fire in a preserving-pan. It is carefully skimmed and suffered to boil for a few minutes, and then, keeping back the cheesy sediment which falls as the butter cools, stored in potting-cans made very close. In a recent lively work entitled The Phjjsician^s Holiday, there is a minute account given of this process, which the Journal of Agriculture brings forward as well worthy of attention, which it certainly is, though not new to those conversant with butter-making. The boiled butter—beurre cuit—is exceedingly well adapted to the uses of the cook and pastry-cook, and though rather tasteless with bread, is in every view to be pre- ferred to what the Physician (Dr John Forbes) describes as "the