250 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. a pickle bottle, and pour over them a tliin syrup, made in the proportion of a pint of water to twelve ounces of sugar, and in which some cloves have been infused. Let them soak in the syrup for a week or more, and, pouring the half of it off them, fill up the bottles with the best vinegar, which, as for all pickles to keep, is first boiled and left to get quite cold.— Gravy for Venison. Make a pint of gravy of trim- mings of venison, or shanks of mutton, thus :—Broil the meat on a quick fire till it is browned, then stew it slowly. Strain, skim, and serve the gravy it yields, adding salt and a teaspoonful of walnut-pickle.—Savoury Venison Sauces^ see pp. 90, 91.—In the north of Europe a sauce of the whortleberry is used for venison and other meats. 298. Turtle Store-Sauce, to flavour Ragouts^ Hashes^ Savoury Patties^ Soups, Pies, etc.—A quarter-pint of strong mushroom-catsup, the same of basil-wine and of eschalot- wine, a large glassful of the liquor of anchovies, an ounce of lemon-peel sliced thin, concrete of lemon one drachm, and the same quantity of the best cayenne. Mix well, iniuse for ten days, strain off and bottle the essence, which is powerful and very much relished. 299. Turtle Sauce, for Calfs Head or Feet, Stewed Knuckle of Veal, Gristles, etc.—To a pint of beef or veal gravy add two spoonfuls of the above turtle store-sauce, and a little essence of anchovy. Thicken if you like. 300. A Store-Sauce, to flavour the Gravy of Steaks, Chops, or Roast Meat.—Infuse in a half-pint of walnut- pickle, and the same quantity of mushroom or oyster catsup, a half-ounce of Jamaica pepper in fine powder, with a salt- spoonful of cayenne, half an ounce of scraped horseradish, and the same weight of minced eschalot. Let these ingre- dients steep ten days, and strain and bottle them. A spoon- ful of essence of anchovy may be added, or a little bruised mustard-seed. — Ohs. This is a cheap and high-flavoured relish, and will be found useful at all times for seasoning either melted butter or the gravy that flows from chops, steaks, etc. 301. Curry-Sauce—This sauce is plainly made by mix- ing curry-powder with melted butter. It is more generally relished if mixed with white onion-sauce; or, if wanted of high flavour, with brown onion-gravy sauce. When liked