417 IRISH STEW. tity of butter (or use oil and butter) in a small stewpan, with chopped parsley and a bruised clove of garlic. Scale and pull the fish to small pieces, and shake these well in the stewpan to make them melt to a mass in the oil. The stewpan must be all along vigorously shaken. N.B.—An easier way of dressing this dish is to pound the fish, and bake it with the butter, in paste, or better, in potato- pastry. This is very similar to Dr Hunter's teased skate. No. 130. 764. Irish Stew.—Having taken the loose fat from a loin or neck of mutton, cut from two to four pounds of it into small well-shaped cutlets. Flatten, and season them with salt and mixed spices. Peel six or eight onions; parboil and skin two pounds of potatoes for one of meat. Lay some shred suet at the bottom of a stewpan, add a half-pint of stock, or two ounces of melted butter. Slice in a layer of potatoes, then place a layer of cutlets, strew in the onions, then again potatoes and chops, but let the top be thickly covered with potatoes. A shank or small bit of ham, or a scrape of smoked tongue, or a little sausage-meat, is an addi- tion to this favourite family-dish. It must stove very slowly, and the pan must be closely and constantly covered.—Ohs, Hunter^s Pie is another excellent form of Irish stew, only this is sometimes made of beef-collops instead of mutton- chops ; and the potatoes are always mashed. Place the po- tatoes, meat, and onions, in alternate layers in an earthen- ware pie-dish, and bake them; the thick top layer of pota- toes may be neatly scored or scolloped on the edges, and glazed with eggs, if approved. Care must be taken to cover the potato-pastry, else it will scorch before the meat is done. A fashionable or French-Irish stew is baked in a mould, en casserole^ and turned out when served. Mashed potatoes make an excellent wholesome paste to cover or form layers in plain meat-pies of all kinds, particularly pies of fat meat. See Potato Pasty, Some cooks wrap an old napkin round the stewpan-lid, which forms a kind of luting in dressing this and other stoved dishes, or use coarse water-paste. [There is a kind of cottage-oven used in Ireland and other places, in form of a wide stewpan, made of cast-iron, with a lid of the same thickness, on which embers of turf are put. This is placed over other embers, and an equal, slow heat is maintained, which dresses a stew, bakes a pudding or a bit of meat, and is found useful at other times as a cottage-pot.] s 2