594 CHAP. IV. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. a jug of hot water, and rub it with salt of lemons, or juice of sorrel, and salt; then wash it immediately, lest the acid injure the fabric of the cloth. Lemon-juice will do. 1224. To take out Stains of Wine, Fruit, etc.—Wash well, rub with starch, and expose the linen to the sun till the stains come out. Exposing the spot, slightly wetted, to the fumes of burning sulphur for an instant, will also remove these stains. A common match will answer the purpose; but is a choking process. 1225. To remove Mildew.—Rub the spots with soap, and scrape some fine chalk over this. Rub it in, and expose the cloth to the sun. Repeat this till the spots disappear. 1226. Clothes Closets.—These small useful compartments should be lined with wood very closely fitted; furnished with shelves and wooden pegs, on which to suspend ladies' dresses, and things which folds would injure. Turpentine, cedar-shavings, Russia leather, etc., should be strewed about them, and glazed linen curtains should be drawn closely round the shelves; on which pieces of charcoal wrapped in muslin may be laid. Modern wardrobes are better than these; but, unluckily, though their price might not be grudged, few bedchambers are large enough conveniently to hold them. Bonnet-hoxes, whether of pasteboard, wood, or tin, should be roomy, and furnished with trays above, and a bonnet-pin in the centre, on which to hang head-dresses. 1227. Fur, to 'preserve.—Sew the articles closely up in glazed linen of a close texture, with camphire or Russia leather about it. Air and shake them occasionally before the fire. Another way.—Keep in tin-plate boxes closely shut. 1228. InTc-Spots.—Wash these immediately, first in plenty of cold water, then in soap and water. Use also lemon-juice or vinegar. Oil of vitriol will take ink from mahogany. Touch with a feather, rub it quickly out, and put linseed-oil on the spot lest it whiten. 1229. To Clean Marhle Slabs and Chimney Pieces. — Mix verdigris and pumice-stone with new slacked lime in soap-ley. Make a paste of this mixture, and rub one way with a woollen cioth. Wash, and repeat this till the stain comes out, but it will take time. 1230. To Clean Papered Booms.—Clear away the dust with bellows and a long-haired brush; cut a stale loaf into eight pieces; and, be- ginning at the top of the wall, rub downwards in even strokes, as if laying on paint. 1231. To Clean Paint.—Brush off the dust; and with ox-gall or whiting scour the paint, rubbing it hard to restore the gloss; or use mottled soap made into a strong ley, if the only object is to clean.— Obs. Sponge is peculiarly well suited for this, and, indeed, all domestic purposes of cleaning, whether dishes, plate, floor-cloths, mahogany, etc., etc., when free of sand. 1232. To take Grease from Papered Walls or Books.—Appty dry hot flannel to the spot, then rub it over with hot spirit of turpentine. Repeat this till the grease is removed. If turpentine would injure the colours in the paper, lay several folds of blotting-paper on the spot, and apply a hot iron over that, till the grease is absorbed by the blotting-paper,—or cover with French chalk, if very bad.