149 KNUCKLE OF VEAL AND GIBLET SOUPS. and, when nearly finished, add the meat of a lobster or crab, cut in bits, or the soft part of a few oysters, or yolk of hard-boiled eggs. Take off all the fat that rises, and season highly with pepper and cayenne. Serve in a deep dish. 94. Knuckle of Veal Soup. An excellent Scotch Soup, Take a large knuckle, or if small, add a piece of the scrag. Break the bones and wash it; place skewers in the stew-pan to keep the meat from sticking; cover it and no more with water; put in a head of celery, a sprig of lemon- thyme, three onions, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a dozen white and Jamaica peppercorns; simmer till the knuckle is tender. Strain the soup. Cut the gristly parts of the knuckle and all that is good into mouthfuls, and put to it a seasoning of white pepper, and mace in powder, and rice-flour to thicken, if it is wished.—Obs, This soup may be made with rice or vermicelli; or the stewed uncut knuckle may be served in the soup or sepa- rately ; for many like to pick the gristles, a " pleasing toil," instead of having the meat cut for them by the cook. Some gourmands admire veal stew-soup made of the Irish Staggering-Bob,—that is, an infant calf, whose bones are still gristle, and his flesh a jelly. The breast, knuckle, and shoulder-blade, are best for this purpose, and the soup is seasoned with mace, and, when finished, thickened with a liaison of the yolks of three eggs. 95. Giblet-Soup.* Take from two to three pounds of shin of beef, or of shanks and scrag of mutton, or knuckle of veal, or a part of each, as may be found most convenient; a small fagot of sweet herbs, carrots, turnips, and a little parsley : a quarter * This was one of those pretending dishes of which Mistress Dods em- phatically said, " Boil stanes in hutter, and the broth will be gude." When plainly made, as directed in the above receipt, it affords an agreeable variety for a family-dinner, and is an economical way of using what might otherwise be wasted. Wine is ordered for giblet-soup in the most approved cookery books; and we have no wish to restrain the fancies of a gourmand, however extravagant; but Mistress Dods strongly protested against bestow- ing Madeira on goose-horns and pinions. French cooks dress giblets as a haricot, wrapping them in layers of bacon, in which they are stewed. When done and drained, the bacon is of course laid aside, and the sauce is skimmed, thickened, and poured over the giblets.