LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 529 1081. A Cool Tankard.—Put two glasses of sherry and one of brandy into a jug with a hot toast and sugar. Pour a bottle of fine ale over it; stir with a sprig of balm, and let it settle for a half-hour. 10812. Devonshire Cool Tankard.—Sweeten a bottle of cider with lumps of sugar rubbed on the rind of a large lemon. Add the juice of the lemon, a quarter-pint of sherry, and the grate of half a nutmeg. Like all summer beverages, it may be placed in ice; and the flavour " of our ancestors may be given by stirring in it thyme, balm, or mint. 1082. AthoU'Brose,—Mix with a cupful of heather-honey two cupfuls of whisky, alias mountain-dew, or in this pro- portion. Brandy and rum are also used, though the combi- nation they form with honey cannot be called Athole-Brose, The yolk of an egg is sometimes beat up with the brose, which is much approved by sportsmen and yachtsmen from the south, who take as kindly to the mountain-dew as if it were Alma Mater^s milk. 1083. Auld Man^s Milk.—Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs separately. Put to the beat yolks sugar and a quart of new milk, or thin sweet cream. Add to this rum, whisky, or brandy to taste (about a half-pint). Slip in the whipt whites, and give the whole a gentle stir up in the china punch-bowl, in which it should be mixed. It may be flavoured with nutmeg or lemon-zest. This Highland morning-cup is nearly the egg-nogg of America. \0^4t, Lait Sucre.—-Boil fine sugar in milk, and flavour with lemon. This, cold, is a refreshment fit for children's balls, and is so used in France. 1085. Eau Sucri.—Sugar in boiling water. This is a frugal supper-beverage much used by French ladies, and considered soporific. Biscuits are served with it. 1086. Mum-Shrub.—This is made in the easy way by adding the juice and an infusion of the rind of Seville oranges to rum, with a little syrup and plain water, or orange-flower-water. Honey, raisin-wine, porter, citric acid, water, 3 gallons; sugar, 16 lbs.; old brandy {Eau de Vie), two and a half gallons; rum, half a gallon; citric acid, and spirit of citron, of each three ounces. The tea is first infused in the water, the citric acid and sugar are then dissolved, and the other ingredients added. z