369 DISHES OF MUTTON. the mince in butter, draining and serving it in a well-reduced Italian brown-sauce with a very little champagne.—See Nos. 398, 478. 649. Beef-Kidneys are dressed as above, and served at the Dejeuner d la fourchette.—N. B. Yfith brains, kidneys, and liver, always use cayenne. 650. Haricot Brun, or d la Bourgeoise.— Brown mutton- chops in the fryingpan. Make a roux of the butter in which they were fried, with a little more butter and browned flour. Add a little veal-gravy, or good consomme^ well seasoned, and some bits of turnip, with parsley and green onions. Skim the sauce often to clear it of fat. Have some turnips scooped into small balls ready boiled, as for soup Baveau, No. 612. Put them with the chops into a clean stewpan, and strain the sauce over them. When the sauce looks clear and brown, and the turnips are done, dish the chops round, and serve the sauce and turnip-balls in the middle. Cold mutton is dressed as haricot in the same way. 651. Hachis de Mouton d la Portuguaise.—Prepare the meat as for any hash. Heat it in a thick, well reduced Es- pagnole^ with butter, pepper, and salt. Serve with eggs over it, poached rather hard, and with dressed onions between, en cordon^ or chain-wise. 652. Minced Mutton with Cucumhers.—See No. 485. 653. Pied de Mouton d la Sauce Rohert—Sheep's Trotters, •—Cook the cleaned trotters in a blanc. When slowly stewed till tender, bone them. Roll them in cooked forcemeat. Dip them in thin frying batter, and fry them.—Obs. They may also be stuffed with forcemeat, and braised, and so served. Serve with Robert sauce.—See No. 480. 654. Pieds d'Agneau, or lamb's trotters, are dressed as above.—See No. 480. 655. Cervelles des Moutons—Sheep's Brains, These are dressed exactly as No. 631, but more pungent seasonings are proper.—Obs. Of mutton the French also make/rzcan- deaux, mortadelles, or large sausages, grenadins, and many other dishes. See Sheep^s Tongues, No. 481. 656. Cochon de Lait au Moine blanc, en Galantine,—Pre- pare the pig as directed at No. 20. Bone it all except the q2