397 THE SCOTCH HAGGIS. after ten minutes' boiling for fresh water. The lights can- not be overboiled. A half-hour's boiling will be sufficient for the rest; but throw back the half of the liver to boil till, when cold, it will grate easily. Take the heart, the half of the liver, and part of the lights, trimming away all skins and black-looking parts, and mince them together finely. Mince also a pound of good beef-suet. Grate the other half of the liver. Have four mild large onions, peeled, scalded, and minced, to mix with the haggis-mince. Have also ready some finely-ground oatmeal, toasted slowly be- fore the fire till it is of a light-brown colour, and perfectly nutty and dry; or high toasted oat-cake may be crumbled down. A large teacupful of meal will do for this quantity of meat. Spread the mince on a board, and strew the meal lightly over it, with a high seasoning of black pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, first well-mixed. Have a haggis-bag [i.e. a sheep's paunch) perfectly clean, and see that there be no thin part in it, else your whole labour will be lost by its bursting. Some cooks use two bags, or a cloth as an outer case. Put in the meat with a half-pint of good beef-gravy, or as much strong stock. Be careful not to fill the bag too full, but allow the meat and meal room to swell • add the juice of a lemon, or a little good vinegar; press out the air, and sew up the bag; prick it with a long needle when it first swells in the pot to prevent bursting; let it boil slowly for three hours if large.—Obs. This is a genuine Scotch haggis; the lemon and cayenne may be omitted, and instead of beef-gravy, a little of the broth in which the pluck is par- boiled may be taken. More suet may be given. A finer haggis may be made by parboiling and skinning sheep's tongues and kidneys, and substituting these minced, for the most of the lightsj and soaked bread or crisped crumbs for the toasted meal. There are, moreover, sundry modern re- finements on the above receipt,—such as eggs, milk, pounded biscuit, etc., etc.,—but these, by good judges, are not deemed improvements. Some cooks use the small fat tripes, as in making lamb's haggis. Mr Allan Cunningham, in some of his Tales, orders the parboiled minced meat of sheep's head for haggis. We have no experience of this receipt, but it promises well. A haggis boiled for two hours may be kept for a week or two; and when cold, gets so firm that haggises are often sent from Scotland to distant places and countries.