OF MUTTON. 311 hot. Put salt and a bit of fresh butter in the dish or serve with sauce Robert. These steaks are excellent over potato- pudding, or mashed potatoes, or arranged round a shape of potatoes, or with potato-balls, or slices fried and arranged round them.—See p. 111. 476. Mutton-Collops and Cucumbers.—Pare and slice the cucumbers. Sprinkle them with fine salt and pepper, and pour vinegar over them. Brown thinly-cut collops in a fryingpan, and then stew them with the drained cucumbers in a little stock. Skim and season the stew, and serve it hot in a ragout-dish.—Obs, Lamb-chops are excellent dressed as above, but they must not be over fat. Some cooks add slices of onion to the above ragout, and the practice is com- mendable.—See p. Ill, Nos. 474, 475. 477. To Roll a Loin of Mutton,—Keep the meat till quite tender and just beginning to turn. Bone it, and season it highly with black and Jamaica pepper, mace, nutmeg, and cloves (all in powder mixed), and salt. Let it lie a day in this seasoning. Flatten it with a rolling-pin, and cover it with forcemeat as for roast-hare. Roll it up, and bind with fillets of linen. Half-roast or bake it in a slow oven. Skim off all the fat when cold, and finish the dressing of the loin by stewing it in the gravy drawn from itself, first dredg- ing it well with flour and more spices. Put to the hot sauce, ten minutes before dishing the meat, a glass of red wine, catsup, an anchovy, and a large spoonful of lemon-pickle. 478. To Dress Mutton Tails and Kidneys.—Parboil six rumps (which are the number necessary for a dish), in mut- ton-broth. Let them cool, and take off the cake of fat from the broth. Brush the rumps with egg, dip them in crumbs, chopped parsley, and a little lemon-thyme, and brown them. Have six kidneys larded and broiled in a Dutch oven, and stew a little boiled rice in the gravy of the rumps. Dish the rice in a shallow dish, and lay the rumps on it, the points meeting at a centre ; place a kidney between each of these, and garnish with cut pickles. See No. 399.—Ohs. This dish is good served on stewed cucumbers. Besides the above methods, a fillet may be braised ;^ a haunch cut like venison, * Braising.—We are afraid that the young beginner in cookery may not find the account of the process of braising, which is given in this chapter, sufficiently circumstantial. This process, which is of French invention, is,