377 VARIOUS SMALL DISHES. 675. Eggs d la Tripe.—Peel, slice, and fry in butter, three or four Spanish onions. When done, dust in some flour, and let it catch to a light brown. Put in a little hot milk, salt, and pepper, and let the sauce reduce. Put to this a dozen small hard-boiled eggs quartered. Mix them gently with the sauce not to break the slices. Arrange the eggs neatly in the dish. 676. Eggs in Sauce Rohert.—Proceed as above directed; but brown the onions over a brisk fire, and moisten with stock. Reduce the sauce by boiling. Add a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and stir in the sliced eggs.—See Nos. 567, 568, 573, and 737. 677. Eggs d la Maitre Hotel.—Do these vjhite and as eggs d la Tripe^ but throw in a good lump of butter and some minced parsley.—Ohs. These dishes, though the best of their kind, seem of little comparative importance ; but when the cook, or the mistress of a family, as is often the case, is racked for something to fill up an odd corner, they afford a cheap and ready resource. Eggs dressed in this last way will afterwards make admirable sauce for poultry, salt cod, or ling. 678. Fondu.—This is prepared in various ways. Mix grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, in equal quantities, or substitute good Glo'ster or Cheshire for the latter; add to the rasped cheese about double the weight of cream, or melted butter, with beat yolks of eggs; beat the whites of the eggs separately, and having whisked the mixture very well, put pepper and a little salt to it, and then stir the beat whites lightly in. Either bake the whole in a silver or block-tin souffle-dish, or in paper cases. Fill them only half-full, as the mixture should rise very much. Serve very hot in the second course. Fondu is just cheese souffle.— See BamaJdns, No. 555. 678^. Hors d^oeuvres, or small dishes handed round the table at appropriate times^ as agreeable interludes^ or as relishes or whets.—For small vols-au-vent^ petites bouchees^ rissoles^ and such other hors d'ceuvres^ roll out a pound of the richest puff-paste; cut the vols-au-vent with a fluted cutter about two inches wide. Place them on a floured baking-tin, glaze them with egg with a paste-brush, and, dipping a plain cutter in hot water, mark out the top of each deeply.