VEGETABLE CURRY. CUCUMBERS AND CELERY. 213 as well as butter.—-055. Stewed and roasted onions used to be a favourite supper-dish in Scotland, and were reckoned medicinal. The onions were stewed (after parboiling) in a butter-sauce, to which cream was put, i. e, the Sauce hlanche of France.* Onions may be farced, as may several sorts of vegetables, with a farce of meat, fish, or poultry.—See No. 206. 209. Vegetable Curry. Boil, strain, and mash delicate greens or cabbage; stew them in butter, with curry-powder to taste, rubbed down in vinegar, salt, and pepper. A curry of spiriage is made by the addition of vinegar or sorrel, and onions. The sauce is veal-gravy or butter, and either bits of meat, or, if maigre^ prawns, cockles, or oysters, are added to the stew. 210. To Stew Cucumbers and Celery. Pare fresh cucumbers, cut them in thin slices, and take out the seeds; or, if small, divide them the long way. Slice onions in the proportion of one to every two cucum- bers. Stew these together in a little good broth, or in melted butter, with cayenne, pepper, and salt. Thicken the sauce with a bit of butter kneaded in flour, and after dishing * "We now," said Touchwood, "rarely see a dish of onions; yet I have much to say in behalf of this homely, patriarchal relish, which is of so much consequence in giving gusto to the food of those who cannot reach the costly compound essences that are gradually subverting it in the kitchens of the rich. In the early part of the last century. Swift sung— 'There is, in every Cook's opinion, No savoury dish without an onion;' and added, for the benefit of youthful gourmands,— * But lest your kissing should he spoil'd The onion must be thoroughly boil'd— a precaution of no great moment, however, as the period when a man begins to pay much attention to palatic enjoyments is nearly about the same at which the taint of his breath becomes an affair of less concernment either to himself or others, provided he keep at a respectful distance. It may be remarked, by the way, that one sign of the precocity of the youth of the age, is their beginning to talk of the business of the table, at the years when their fathers were still upon their bread and milk."—" But return we to our onion," said Jekyll to the Nabob, after delivering this note. " Well, sir—and what has consigned this prime root to Parisian restaurateurs and London soup-brewers, who are still cunning enough in their art to employ its savoury, cordial, and stimulating qualities, but this same pouncet-box dread of the manly scent of a garlic breath,—another root, by the way, most vilely neglected ? ' Of all plants,' says Sir William Temple, ' garlic affords the most nourishment, and supplies the best spirits to those who eat little flesh.' It clears phlegm, dissipates cold slimy humours, etc., etc."