246 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. 285. Carach-Sauce.—Mix a little pounded garlic with cayenne, soy, and walnut-pickle, in good vinegar. Other Sauces for Poultry and Game. Most of the common sauces for poultry have been described under other heads. These are principally white-sauce^ egg- sauce^ apple-sauce^ rice-sauce^ lemon-sauce^ celery-sauce^ goose- herry-saucCj and mushroom-sauce; but a few of the more delicate remain to be given. See also French Cookery of Sauces. 286. Bread-Sauce.—Put grated crumbs into a small saucepan, and pour a little of the liquor in which fowls, mutton, or veal have been boiled, over this. When it has soaked, simmer with it a sliced onion, white peppercorns, salt, and mace: take out the onion and peppercorns, and add cream or melted butter.—Another Bread-Sauce.—Pour a half-pint or more of boiling milk over a breakfastcupful of stale bread in crumbs in a jug: cover this, and in twenty minutes at soonest, beat it up in a nice saucepan, adding a good bit of butter and salt, cayenne and mace to taste. Add as much boiling cream or milk as will thin it; boil up and serve. 287. Rice-Sauce.— Stew two ounces of blanched rice in milk, with an onion, white peppercorns, and a little salt. Take out the peppercorns and onion, and rub the rice through a colander. Heat it up with more milk or cream, and flavour it as above. This looks whiter, but it is not so light as bread-sauce. Butter may be put to enrich it. 288. Egg-Sauce for salt Fishj roasted Poultry, etc.—Boil three or four eggs for a quarter of an hour. Dip them in cold water, and then roll them quickly under your hand to make the shell come easily off. Chop the yolks by them- selves into little half-inch cubes, and cut the white of one or two eggs in the same manner. Stir first the white and then the yolks into thinnish melted butter in the tureen. 289. Our Own Sauce for Game,—or Orange-Gravy.—A half-pint of claret, and the same quantity of good brown- gravy.—Make the gravy boil, put the wine to it, with pepper, salt, cayenne, and the strained juice of two Seville oranges, or one orange and a lemon. Let them simmer for a few minutes, and, pouring some over the game, serve the rest