CHAP. I. MADE -DISHES 306 460. Mock-Turtle, or Calf's Head. See also pages 143, 144^ and 148. Get a large fat head with the skin on. Scald and clean it well. Soak it in hot water, and, if you wish to have the imitation-dish very rich, parboil it in good veal-stock, with a turnip, carrot, onions, and sweet herbs. Skim this well. In half an hour take up the head, and, when cold enough to be firm and easily handled, cut the meat thus: The eyes into thin round slices, having first picked out the black part; the gristly part about the ears into long narrow strips, the fleshy part into round slices, the thick of the cheeks into small dice, the thin on the forehead into long strips, and the peeled tongue into nice square bits. Put the bones and trimmings, with a piece of bacon, back into the stewpot. Fry some minced eschalot in plenty of butter browned with flour. Put the cut meat to this browning, and give it a toss for a few minutes, then strain a sufficient quantity of the stock over it, to make the dish not much thicker than a stew-soup. Season with mace, pepper, salt, and a half-pint of Madeira. When the meat has stewed very slowly, rather soaking in the gravy than actually boiling, and is nearly ready, put to it cayenne to taste, a small glass of catsup, a very little soy, and a couple of spoonfuls of chopped basil, tarragon, chives, and parsley. When skimmed ready to be dished, add the juice of a lemon. Serve in a large but not deep soup-dish, ornamented with a cut paste border; and garnish with forcemeat-balls and egg-balls, with a few green pickles intermixed, if you choose.—Ohs. This highly-flavoured dish may be enriched by parboiled sweetbreads cut, oysters, turtle-balls, etc.; if the head be lean or small, a good cow- heel cut down will make an excellent addition to it, but will require more boiling, and must be put into the stockpot two hours before the head.—For Potted Head^ National Dishes. 461. To Dress Calves' Feet,—Clean and blanch them. Clean again and boil them till tender; divide and serve of a pound of minced veal and two pounds of the fat of beef-kidney, bread- crumbs steeped in cream and dried, and fine herbs minced—namely, mush- rooms, parsley, and young onions. Add salt, pepper, and spices. Mix this thoroughly. Stuff the boned head with it, but keep some for forcemeat- balls. Braise the head in gravy-stock ; put artichoke bottoms, veal-sweet • breads cut, truffles, and button-mushrooms, to the ragout, and serve with the farce-balls.