139 PEASE-SOUP. smaller onions. When this has been skimmed, and has sim- mered slowly for about an hour and a half, taking care that it does not stick to the bottom of the pot, add another quart of boiling water, or any fresh pot-liquor in which poultry or meat has been boiled. Simmer again till the pease are com- pletely dissolved. Pour the soup into a sieve set over an earthen pan or stew-pot, and pulp the pease through w^ith a wooden spoon, taking back some strained soup to moisten what remains till the whole mash is pulped through. Add salt, white pepper, and the onions well pulped, to the strained soup; a head of fresh celery shred roughly, or a small dessert- spoonful of the bruised seed (which communicates the flavour in a strong degree) tied uj) in a muslin bag, which (we need not say) must be lifted out when the soup is dished. Sim- mer the soup for a half-hour or three-quarters, if too thin. Pour it into the tureen, and either throw in toasted bread, cut into dice or diamonds, or serve the dice on a plate : many, as in onion-soup, like curry seasoning. Stir up the soup the moment before it goes to the table. Butter lightly fried with flour may be used to enrich this soup. For Pease- POTAGE double the quantity of pease is required. — Ohs. This, though neither the most expensive nor elegant of soups, is a favourite family-dish for nine months of the year. It can be made of an inferior sort of anything that is whole- some. A rump-bone, the bones of meat used for pies, trimmings of a roast, etc., are all excellent. Roast beef- bones, if not stale nor charred, a hock of ham, or fresh drip- ping, answer very well; also the liquor in which salt meat is boiled—or part of it—Avith the exception of that of fat rancid pork, which, save in cases of stern necessity, cannot be tolerated by us. When pease-soup is made of shreds and patches of meat, more onion or celery and pepper should be used to overcome the flavour of what constitutes the basis of the soup. The grated red of carrot we think a great improvement to this and potato-soup. A very convenient way of making common pease-soup is, to have pease-pudding without eggs, boiled, ready to mix with the liquor in which meat or fowls are dressed. The above seasonings are then to be added, and the soup may be enriched with butter, or clarified fresh dripping, thickened as above directed, and finished in an hour. Dried mint or dried parsley is some- times rubbed and strewed into this soup, or chopped spinagc.