258 CHAP. IX.—^SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. 324. Dr Kitchiner's Fish-Sauce Superlative^ a Store- Sauce,—A pint of claret, a pint of mushroom-catsup, and half a pint of walnut-pickle; four ounces of pounded an- chovy, an ounce of fresh lemon-peel pared thin, and the same quantity of eschalot and scraped horseradish: an ounce of black pepper and allspice, and a drachm of cayenne, or three of curry-powder, with a drachm of celery-seed. In- fuse these, in a wide-mouthed bottle closely stopped, for a fortnight, and shake the mixture every day; then strain and bottle it for use. A large spoonful of this stirred into a quarter-pint of thickened melted butter makes,'' says the Doctor, " an admirable extemporaneous sauce."^—Ols, This will be found even more expensive than the fish-sauce of Harvey or Burgess : the composition of which, so far as such high mysteries are accessible to ordinary mortals, is not materially different from the piquant fish-sauces for which we have given receipts above, save that more an- chovies, cavice, acids, and probably fewer expensive season- ings and less wine, are employed. The extensive sales, and the complete apparatus of these Sauce-chemists^ enable them to sell compound essences cheaper than they could be pre- pared in any private family. Though so many receipts are given for Store-Sauces, we do not, when proper sauces can be obtained fresh, recommend them to small families either for taste or economy. We have been rather diffuse on the subject of fish-sauces, in the persuasion that fish, from its insipidity and softness of fibre, requires savoury and stimulating accompaniments more than any other kind of food. the "best universal sauce in the world" in the boon days of Charles II.; or at least what was accounted such by the Duke of York, who was in- structed how to prepare it L/ the Spanish ambassador. It consisted of parsley, and a dry toast pounded in a mortar with vinegar, salt, and pepper. The modern English would no more relish his Koyal Highness's taste in condiments than in some other matters. A fashionable or Cabinet dinner of the same period consisted of " a dish of marrow-bones, a leg of mutton, a dish of fowl, three pullets, and a dozen larks, all in a dish ; a great tart, a neat's tongue, a dish of anchovies, a dish of prawns, and cheese." At the same period, a delicate supper-dish, when the King supped with his mistress. Lady Castlemaine, " was a chine of beef roasted." But folks then supped at the modern dinner hour. * The Kitchiner sauce was analyzed with great care by the Cleikum Club at sundry sittings. Redgill approved of it in toto, the Nabob suggested a little more cayenne, and Jekyll more wine and less catsup, with the elegant substitution of lemon-pickle for walnut-p'ckle.