PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 543 NOTICES OF THE PRINCIPAL MEATS, FISH, AND VEGETABLES, IN SEASON IN THE DIFFERENT MONTHS OF THE YEAR. JANUARY. Beef and mutton, which are to be had good all the year round, are both prime in this month, though they begin to get dearer than in the fall of the year; veal to be had good, but dear at this season; house- lamb and pork generally both dear. Poultry—Turkeys, geese, ducks, fowls, pullets, tame pigeons, wild ducks, hares and rabbits, plentiful; partridges, pheasants, and a great variety of wild fowl. Fish — Turbot, halibut, skate, cod, haddocks, soles, plaice, flounders, her- rings, oysters, —prime turbot is now scarce; lobsters and crabs hardly to be got at this time; prawns plentiful. Vegetables—The same sorts of vegetables are in season, with little variation, from the beginning of November till the end of February : they are Savoys, cabbage, and greens of all the sorts, Brussels sprouts, brocoli sulphur-coloured and purple; spinage, leeks, onions beetroot, parsnips, turnips, celery, carrots, potatoes, cresses, parsley, endive, and forced asparagus, and mushrooms. Fruits—A variety of apples, pears, and filberts, walnuts, oranges, foreign grapes, and all the dried foreign fruits now plentiful and excellent. FEBRUARY. Meat, the same as in January, but veal and house-lamb generally rather cheaper. Fish the same, but cod and haddocks fallen off; lob- sters and herrings more plentiful; barbel and dace got. F^oivls and game the same, save partridges and pheasants, with spring chickens and ducklings in addition, but at this season enormously dear. Pea and Guinea fowl now come in and continue till July. Vegetables the same, and, in addition, forced kidney-beans and salad herbs. MARCH. Meat as in January, and in some localities grass-lamb; house-lamb now cheaper; and mountain-mutton, which begins to fall off about mid-winter, now not so good, particularly in severe seasons; veal gets cheaper. Poultry the same as last months ; no hares from middle of the month; close time till September; green geese, ducklings, tame pigeons (cheaper); wild pigeons ; moor-game close. Fish—Salmon is now got, but dear,—indeed it is to be had in London almost the whole year mund. Fish, in an open spring, are plentiful about this time, but still more so in April; mackerel, shrimps, and prawns, are now seen. Turbot are now in high request. The John Dory makes its appearance in the London market. Vegetables—Forced cucumbers and rhubarb; young turnips, and turnip-tops, spinage, brocoli, rad- ishes, and salad herbs. APRIL. Heat of all hinds.—Yeal and lamb get cheaper. Poultry same as last three months. Leverets to be got towards the end of the month ; young fowls, with eggs, and turkey-poults, but in general extrava- gantly dear. Vegetables same as the last months, with chervil and