221 POTATOES. rasped ham; fry in plenty of dripping, and serve with any sort of steaks and chops, or alone as a supper-dish. They may be dipped in small-beer fritter-batter. A cheap and delicious mess was furnished in summer to those healthy and happy children educated in what are called the Maiden Hospitals of Edinburgh. Good potatoes, boiled, peeled, and roughly broken, were boiled up with sweet milk, and a small proportion of butter. 228. Calecannon and Vegetable Pudding, an Irish dish, is made by boiling and mashing greens, young cabbage, or spinage, and mixing them with mashed potatoes, butter, pepper, and salt; pressing it into a buttered shape to be turned out, or dishing it like mashed potatoes. In this dish at least two-thirds should be potato. Plain Calecannon is made in cottages with infinitely less ceremony, and is quite as good. Boil the vegetables till nearly done; put the peeled raw potatoes to them to boil; drain from the water; add pepper, salt, a shred onion, and a good piece of butter or dripping; and mash all up together. Pudding.—Boil and mash potatoes with half the quantity of carrots and turnips; mash a shred onion, three eggs, pepper and salt; tie up, boil an hour, and turn out. The partial failure of the potato crop in 1845, and the subsequent more general, or almost universal failure of this favourite esculent, drove all classes to their shifts to find substitutes; though neither the cook nor the potato-lover has yet completely succeeded. Substitutes became a ques- tion of economy, as well as of taste. Eice, macaroni, chest- nuts, parsnips, Portugal onions, stewed or roasted, beet, baked or boiled; the different kinds of beans, native or im- ported from difierent quarters, mashed white cabbage ; turnip and carrot mashed ; saur croute, many preparations of Indian corn or maize meal, and the old plain Yorkshire pudding, dough-nuts, dough-boys, and the other plain flour or oatmeal dumplings of our ancestors, were all resorted to, both to save the consumption of meat, and to improve it to the palate. For those who can afford to dine comfortably, if not sumptuously, every day, we would suggest, as among the best substitutes, if for accompaniments to meat:—I. Rice plain boiled, if with roasts or poultry; but parboiled, and then stewed with the meat, if with stews; and also as borders to stews and small made-dishes. II. Macaroni