240 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. and heat up the sauce : or roast the onions, and then pulp them.—Ohs. If for tripe, made-mustard may be mixed with this sauce : if for smothering rabbits, boiled ducks, etc., cream should be added. Some cooks use veal or clear beef- gravy instead of melted butter, and others mash a turnip, or apple, or white beet, along with the onions, where the flavour is thought too strong. Young onions^ when very small, may be cooked separately and served whole in the sauce. The French make onion-sauce, with cream or Becha- mel as the basis, and season with nutmeg or mace, and a bay-leaf. This is good practice. 261. Brown Onion-Sauce, — This is a highly-relishing sauce, suitable to many different dishes, and a general favourite with thorough-bred gourmands of the old school. Slice large mild onions, brown them in butter over a slow fire, add good brown gravy, pepper, salt, cayenne, and a bit of butter rolled in brown flour. Skim this, and put in a half-glass of Burgundy, claret, or port, the same quantity of mushroom-catsup ; or, if more suitable to the dish the sauce is to accompany, a dessertspoonful of walnut-pickle, or eschalot-vinegar, to give piquance ; also essence of ham.— Ohs, This standard sauce is susceptible of many variations. Onion-sauce^ brown or white, may be made extempore by stirring small cooked onions into Bechamel^ or into brown- sauce. 262. To Dress Onions for Garnishing^ and for Bouilli^ etc. —Top and tail small firm silver onions; blanch and peel them ; stew them in good stock till they look clear and pulpy.— Ohs, If to be browned, do not blanch, but at once fry them. If for garnishing houilli^ use larger onions ; put fire over the stew-pan, and let them fall to a glaze. Pour a little stock into the pan to float off the glaze^ which should be poured over the beef. If the onions are not mild, put a bit of sugar to the stock. 263. Sage and Onion Sauce,—Chop together a couple of onions and eight sprigs of fresh sage ; stew them in water with salt, and in five minutes add bread-crumbs ; drain off a little of the water when they are tender, and beat up and stir in melted butter ; add pepper, and, if for goose-stuffing, more flour, or crumbs. 264. Eschalot-Sauce,—Chop of eschalot what will fill a