45 DIEEOTIONS FOR OAEVING. Carving has ever been esteemed one of the minor arts of polite life,—a test at first sight of the breeding of men, as its dexterous and graceful performance is presumed to mark a person trained in good fashion. In the times of chivalry, carving was the duty of the younger squire attendant on the knight. " To dance in hall and carve at board'' are classed together in the list of a young gentleman's accomplishments ; and Chesterfield, the great modern teacher of polished life, has made this qualification an object of his pupil's peculiar study. Carving, like heraldry, hunting, hawking, and other sciences of a like important kind, had a language of its own. Treatises were composed to show how the heron was to be dismembered^ the duck unbraced^ the crane displayed^ the swan lifted^ the goose reared^ and so forth. The Grand Carver was a functionary of some dignity in former times; and till the office is revived, or the oriental and continental custom, of having the principal part of the carving performed by the cook and servants, is adopted, it is necessary to acquire a knowledge of this art on principles of economy, as well as from respect to good manners. To carve quickly and neatly requires a good deal of prac- tice, as well as vigilant observation of those who perform the office well. There are awkward grown-up persons, having, as the French say, two left hands, whom no labour will ever make dexterous carvers; yet there is no difficulty in this humble but useful art, which young persons, if early initiated under the eye of friends, might not easily surmount, and thus save themselves much awkward embarrassment in future life. One objection to allowing juvenile practice is, that young people haggle provisions ; but they might be per- mitted sometimes to try plain joints and cold game, which would soon bring in their hands. A lady, where ladies still carve at family dinners, requires an elevated seat, a light sharp knife, and the dish placed near her. All puddings, trifles, pastry, etc., should be cut or helped with a silver