CHAP. IV. BROILING. 112 with a hot gravy, with which a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a little dry sage pulverized, may be mixed. Redgill- sauce or Sauce Robert possesses still more gusto for thorough- bred pork-eaters.* Stewed cabbage is served with them. Bacon, in very thin slices, may be nicely broiled over a slow fire, in a sheet of paper, tucked up in form of a small drip- ping-pan ; or on a toaster before the fire. N.B.—^We would, unless the fire is temptingly radiant and the cook dexterous, recommend that pork-chops be dressed in the American oven before a brisk fire, which will prevent their becoming black, and having the smeary appearance which those dressed on the gridiron too often exhibit; or they may be half-fried, crumbed, and then broiled brown. 42. To Broil Young Chickens and Pigeons. A BROILED chicken or pigeon is thought lighter than one roasted, and is at least more expeditiously cooked. It is therefore preferred for the sick, or the hungry and hasty. Singe as directed. Note, page 87. Pick, wash, and dry it; cut down the back, and truss as for boiling, making it very flat; season with pepper and salt, and place the inside on a gridiron previously heated, and put at a greater distance from the fire than for a steak. This dish will take a full half-hour to cook perfectly, and it is good practice, if the chicken or fowl is large, to boil it for ten or twelve minutes before broiling. The gridiron should occasionally be taken off the fire, and the birds rubbed with butter tied in a muslin rag. Probe with a knife to see if they are done. Place your chickens or pigeons in a hot dish. For chickens, serve parsley and butter, or gravy with mushrooms, or sauce d la Tartare, Garnish with slices of lemon, and the liver and gizzard (the latter scored) highly seasoned with * Pork-Chops.—It is related that Fuselt, when he wished to summon Nightmare, and bid her sit for her picture, or any other grotesque or horrible personation, was wont to prime himself for the feat by supping on about three pounds of half-dressed pork-chops. Though that accommodating Prince, Richard Cgeur de Lion, could, as has been seen, eat any thing, all being fish that came in the net, when he was sharp-set, he had, like other epicures, his favourite dish, which was Porlzified Saracen^ curried. On recovering in Syria from an ague, his first violent longing was for pork, which is said to approach nearer to human flesh than any other sort of meat. Pork is indeed " a passionate " food. It tolerates no medium. It must be idolized or detested, whether as flitch or gammon, souse or sausage, brawn or griskin.