CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 310 esclialot and muslirooms in butter, and in this brown the cutlets. Season them with cooks' pepper, and strew them with crumbs and chopped parsley dry; and, twisting them in buttered papers, finish them on the gridiron.—Serve with cucumbers, or any sauce that is liked. 475. Reform-Club Mutton-Cutlets,—For ten nicely trimmed cutlets, seasoned with salt and white pepper, mince very finely a quarter-pound of lean dressed ham ; and with it mix a quarter-pound of fine bread-crumbs. Brush the cutlets with egg, and dip them into the ham and crumbs, and fry them for ten minutes in a saute-pan^ in which oil to fry them has been made quite hot [if the pan will not hold the whole, keep hot those already done till the whole are finished]. They should be full of gravy; serve on a border of mashed potatoes, with the bones pointing outwards, and pour plenty of "Reform Sauce'' over the cutlets. Reform sauce is a piquant sauce, made of two onions, two sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves, two ounces of lean ham, half a clove of garlic, and half a blade of mace, cooked for ten minutes over a sharp fire; thinned with two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and one of Chili vinegar, and a pint of brown sauce. Boil it up, let it simmer for ten minutes, skim it; and boil it quickly till so reduced that it adheres to the back of a spoon, when add a large tablespoonful of red- currant jelly, and a half one of chopped mushrooms. Season with pepper and salt to taste; and when the jelly is melted, strain through a tammy. When wanted, make it hot, and add the white of hard-boiled eggs cut in half-inch strips, four white mushrooms first blanched^ one gherkin, two green Indian pickles, and half an ounce of cooked ham or tongue, all cut in strips like the egg. Do not boil the sauce after these are added, but keep very hot.—N.B. This we think an excellent general sauce of the piquant kind, and creditable to the genius of M. Soyer, though the simplicity of good taste might dictate fewer ingredients. For the one gherkin we suggest a point of cayenne. The Reform Sauce is equally good for roast-hare. Mutton-Steaks,—Cut down the back-ribs, a rib in each steak, and chop the bone short. If very fat, trim away some of the fat, which will answer very well for pie-crust, suet- puddings, etc. Broil them as beef-steaks, and serve hot and