WHITEBAIT—EICH FISH AND LOBSTER PIES. i«y water the better, just like herrings, mackerel, and also the small kinds eaten as whitebait. Keep them in a pan of sea water, or salted water. Lift them with a skimmer—^for they should never be handled—into a towel in which plenty of flour is put. Toss them about till coated with flour; place them in a colander, and sift all the flour off them that will come off easily, and instantly fry them for from one to two minutes in hot lard; lift with the fish-skimmer, drain from the frying-fat, and serve neatly and instantly on a fish- plate of china or silver, piling them like a pyramid. They are eaten with brown bread and butter, and sauced at table with a squeeze of cut lemon and cayenne : the accompanying beverage is iced punch.—Ohs. Whitebait is now settled to be a distinct species of fish; especially created, we presume, for English Cabinet Ministers and their friends, and a few London bankers and merchants. It is, however, found in other British estuaries besides the Thames, though it never can relish on the shores of the Dornoch Firth as at Green- wich. Our receipt is applicable to all localities, and to the several small delicate species of fish that pass for genuine whitebait. 157. Rich Fish-Pie,—^ maigre dish. Clean and nicely trim either soles, trout, salmon, turbot, whichever is intended for the pie, and cut the meat from the bone in handsome fillets. Season the fillets with pepper, cayenne, mace, and salt. They may either be turned round or laid flat in the pie-dish, packing them neatly. If to be very rich, the pie-dish must be lined with fish-forcemeat. Put bits of butter below and above the fish, and strew in, if to be very rich, chopped shrimps or prawns, or the soft part of oysters, or lobster-meat. Season a half-pint of stock made of the fish-heads and trimmings; thicken, and strain this over the fish, and cover the dish with a good puff-paste. It will require less baking than a meat-pie of the same size.— See Fish-Pudding, No 683. 158. Lobster-Pie,—^ maigre dish. Parboil two good lobsters; take out all that is good of the meat, and cut it in bits, and place it in a small pie-dish. Beat the spawn and shells, and stew them in water, with a