285 OF BEEF. broth for sauce.—See Potage aux chouXj and German Onion Beef, Nos. 613, 761. 395. To Dress Ox-Palates,—Clean and boil them till the upper skin will easily pull off; and either cut them into long fillets and square bits, or merely divide them. Stew them very slowly in good gravy thickened with roux or butter kneaded in brown flour, and season with cayenne, minced eschalot, or onion, and a large spoonful of catsup; or the pickle of walnuts, mushrooms, or even of onions, which is very good for plain purposes.— Obs. This we think the most suitable way of dressing palates; but they are often in France more expensively prepared, by adding forcemeat, wine, and mushrooms, or even truffles and morells to the sauce; or by dressing them as a fricassee in white sauce. Palates are also served with cucumbers, or with sauce tournee. In fine cookery they are served in a vol-au-vent or casserole (see French Cookery, No. 621), or cut in pretty shapes and served in a rich brown sauce. Palates are suitable to the dejeuner ci la fourchette, either served hot like kidneys with Soubise sauce, or pickled and eaten cold. 396. The Bachelor^s Stew of Beef or Veal.— Order from two and a half to three and a half pounds of the rump or fillet, or mouse-buttock, shaped as a handsome steak about two inches thick; put a very little butter in a small stew- pan, and pepper well, and brown the meat; add a half-pint of water, and place two carrots cut in very thick slices, and the woody part taken out with an apple-corer, over the meat; close the lid very fast, and, first heating through, let the stew simmer very slowly by the fire—the heat of a match or a few cinders is sufficient—for three-quarters of an hour; then turn it over, still keeping the carrots uppermost; add four small whole onions, a little salt, a spoonful of cat- sup, and what boiling water you think necessary; but, as the steam is kept in, and the gravy drawn, none or very little may be required. Simmer on a trivet, or the hob, for an hour more, and dish with the sauce, which may now be thickened, and the roots as garnish. Celery may in part be substituted for the other roots; and the stew may be sea- soned and flavoured in various ways. The same quantity of a fillet of veal may be cooked as above, seasoning with juice and rind of lemon, and a bit of ham ; and using pease