SUTHERLAND-PUDDINGS. 449 which carve into leaves, and bake the pudding in it. A few cleaned currants may be put to it. This pudding may be thinned with milk, and boiled in a cloth ; or it may, allow- ing a double quantity of suet, be filled into skins and so boiled. Chopped apples, stoned prunes, pistachio - nut kernels, crumbled ratafia cakes, dried cherries, any sort of apple, orange, or apricot jam or liqueur^ may be employed to enrich a rice-pudding, and the rice may be ground instead of whole, etc.* When strips of candied peel are used, this takes the name of a Patna-pudding, 838. Delicate small Rice-Puddings.—Prepare four ounces of rice as directed No. 837, and put to it three ounces of fresh butter and a half-pint of cream. When cold, mix in sugar to taste, and six well-beat yolks of eggs, with three whites, grated lemon-peel, and a little cinnamon. Butter small cups, and putting into each a few slices of candied citron, fill very nearly full, and bake them. Dish and serve hot on a napkin, with sweet sauce in a tureen.—See Nos. 304, 305, 886. 839. Castle-puddings^ called also Sutherland-Puddings, —Take the weight of two eggs in flour, butter, and sugar. Set the butter in a basin before the fire till half melted; then beat it to a cream; beat the two eggs for ten minutes or longer, and then mix them gently with the butter, then the sugar, next the flour; add nutmeg and grated lemon- peel ; bake in cups for twenty minutes in a slow oven ; serve on a napkin. 840. Sago and Tapioca Puddings.—Wash in several waters, and boil four spoonfuls of sago in a quart of new milk. Sweeten to taste, and season with cinnamon, lemon- peel grated, and a scrape of nutmeg. Add, when cold, four eggs well beat, and bake in a dish with a cut paste-border. —Ohs. The sago may be first boiled in water, and then have wine and lemon-peel put to it, with some beat butter, and no milk. For the Tapioca^ if genuine, steep four spoonfuls for some hours in a quart of water or sweet milk, and use eggs, and sweeten and season as above. British * We have seen wheat, struck in the same manner as pot or pearl barley, substituted for rice in making puddings. It is much cheaper, can be had fresh at all times, and is by many persons thought better than rice. It is, in fact, cheap Semoulina. Rice, chopped suet, molasses, skim- milk, and ginger, make a good cheap pudding.—P.T.—>5ej Cheap Dishes.