395 PASTRY. a half broad. Roll out more paste, from which cut twenty pieces with a smaller stamp, and again with one yet smaller cut out the centre. Wet the pieces. Place the largest undermost, then the next, and lastly those stamped out like rings, having first dipped them in pounded sugar. Bake on a baking-tin, and fill the ring with any sort of fruit-jelly or jam, or a preserved cherry, etc. 720. The Twins or Meringues Jumeaux.—Whip the whites of eight eggs to a solid froth, and add to this a pound of fine sifted sugar; or clarify and boil it to the second degree. Season with lemon-grate, and whisk all very well together. Drop the Jumeaux on paper in the shape of an egg. Sift sugar over them. Bake them in a slow oven. When firm, draw them out, and stick two and two together, and put them to dry before the fire or in a hot closet.— Ols. These meringues or gemini may be made as above, and flavoured with marasquin or orange-flower water; but they must then be made smaller. As has been said, an endless variety of trifles is made of paste-royal^ by purchasing the proper cutters or stamps. Among the neatest are the Petits Paniers and Petites Bri- oches^ of which the proper stamp will direct the forming. Morsels of Brioche Paste, prepared in very small balls, straws, or as Cagliari Paste, make a good addition to soups, and may, if stamped^ be served with stews or wherever sip- pets are suitable.—See Pastry and Calces, 721. A plain Fruit-cake.—Roll out any bits of puff-paste you have left from more important preparations. Spread any kind of marmalade over these. Decorate with paste bands or straws. Glaze the cake with yolk of egg; bake it, and cut it into oblong pieces, and pile them on the dish. —See Pastry and Sweet and Ornamental Dishes, 72P. To serve Jelly in Orange Skins, Careme.—Choose ten well-shaped large oranges, of a rich colour. Cut a piece an inch wide at the stalk end with a cutter, and with a tea- spoon gently raise the rind and empty the orange. Clear away the pulp and seeds, and throw the skins into cold water to harden and plump out. Be careful not to break them; but if broken, stop the crack with a little butter. Filter the juice with the juice of two lemons through blot- tiag-paper, rolled up like a funnel. Add syrup and an