CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 286 for the carrots. A fowl may be well cooked as above, with celery or a few mushrooms. The main thing is, the slow- ness of the process, and the closeness of the lid, which may be pressed down with a smoothing-iron or heavy weight. In the French kitchen there are grooved lids for saucepans, and tin pudding-moulds, which should be universal. Beef-Steaks vnth Cucumbers.— Pare and slice three large cucumbers, and as many onions. Fry them in butter, and when browned, add a half-pint of gravy, and simmer. Beat and season rump-steaks and fry them. Dish them in a very hot dish, and pour the above cucumber-sauce hot over them. — Ohs. This is a good dish for variety at little expense.— See Nos. 38, 39, 46, 47. 397. To Stew a Tongue.—Trim off the coarse part of the root, but leave on some of the soft fat, called the throat sweetbread. Rub the tongue with salt, sugar, and pounded allspice, and let it lie in this for a few days. Stew it in a small close saucepan till it will skin; strain the liquor, put some fresh broth to it if necessary, a fagot of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a head of young celery sliced. When the tongue has stewed in this very slowly for an hour, take out the herbs and bay-leaves, and season the gravy with cayenne, pounded cloves, mixed spices, and a little walnut- pickle. Serve the tongue in a deep dish, with the sauce about it, and a few dressed mushrooms or small onions pre- viously roasted and peeled. This is an excellent and not an expensive dish; and if any gravy be left, nothing can be better adapted for a sauce to ragouts. The tongue may be cut open the long way, but not quite divided, and so spread out on the dish.—Ohs. This differs little from the French langue de hceuf a la hraise^ save that the French dish is enriched by the trimmings of game, poultry, or veal put to the braise, and has a little wine put to the sauce. Pickled tongues are frequently glazed^ after (of course) being boiled and skinned. They are sometimes served on mashed turnips or spinage, but more handsomely with a rice border. Scarlet tongues^ cold, are sliced, and may have the slices glazed. If cold or dry, a tongue may have a ruche of cut paper placed around the root, which is often unsightly. See Nos. 623, 624. 398. To Dress Beef-Kidneys^ the Scotch Kidney-Collops.—