OF POULTRY AND GAME. 323 in crumbs and fried parsley. Fry the cut pieces nicely in butter or clarified dripping, and pour over the dish any white or green vegetable ragout (that you may have left) made hot. Parmesan grated is used to heighten the gout of this and other such dishes. 520. To Braise a Turkey or Goose,—Everything to be braised is trussed as for boiling. Put thin slices of bacon under and over the bird, and line the stewpan with the same. Put in the turkey, with the giblets and seasonings. Moisten with stock. Braise as directed, page 312, and serve with chestnut-sauce, and goose with apple or onion sauce, mollified with white turnip.—Ols. A hare may be well cooked thus.—Wine is employed in braising both goose and turkey, but we see no use for it.—For Turkey^ see No. 697. 521. To Fricassee Chickens White.—Cut up each chicken neatly into eight parts, as in carving them at table. Wash, dry, flatten, and season the parts with mixed spices, using only white pepper. Take a pint of clear veal or mutton gravy, or other good clear stock, more or less according to the number of chickens, and put to it a roll of lemon-peel, two onions, three blades of mace, and a few sweet herbs. Stew the chickens in this very slowly for a half-hour, keep- ing the stewpan covered. Strain the sauce, and thicken with white roux or butter rolled in flour, adding salt and a scrape of nutmeg. When ready to serve, add a quarter- pint of good hot cream, and the yolk of one or two eggs well beat. Stir this carefully, and, lest it curdle, be sure it does not boil. A glass of white wine, and the squeeze of a lemon, may be put to this fricassee.—Ohs. Besides the above methods of dressing fowls and chickens, they may be stewed with pease and lettuce in good stock, seasoned with parsley, young onions, salt, and spices. Put in the pease, and a cut lettuce, a quarter of an hour after ihe chickens. Fill up the dish with the gravy, laying the pease and lettuce over the chickens. If large fowls, they may be cut down the back. Young chickens may here be trussed as for boiling, and stuffed.—See French Cookery^ Fricassee Naturel or d la Paysanne, 522. Davenport Fowls are stuffed with a forcemeat made of the hearts and livers, an anchovy, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, onions, mixed spices, and a piece of butter or shred