CURRY. 829 of curry-powder, or lialf powder and half paste, and a spoon- ful of rice-flour, both rubbed very smooth, and carefully stuTcd into the sauce. Easped cocoa-nut is a good ingre- dient in curry; so is acid apple. Put it in as thickening, using less rice-flour. "When the curry is just ready, add a glass of thick hot cream, and either the juice of a lemon or a proportionate quantity of citric acid. Skim ofl" all fat, and if the sauce be not rich enough, stir in, before dishing, a small quantity of melted butter. If the sauce be too thick, add a little stock to thin it. Serve boiled rice. Our favourite Family Curry.—Cut from one to three pounds of lean mutton into cubes of about an inch and half. For each pound of meat fry two rather large mild onions in butter, and, when they are brown and pulpy, throw in the meat, and fry it for ten minutes, stirring and turning it round; add in the proportion of a dessertspoonful of curry-powder and of flour for each pound of meat, rub- bing very smooth. Moisten with a very little stock or water, and stew slowly till the meat is quite tender. This is a mild curry. Cayenne, lemon-juice, and mushrooms may be added according to taste, and the curry may be made thinner. Serve boiled rice, Nos. 535 and 536. Some cooks pound part of the meat and all the scraps to thicken the curry, and also boiled livers, etc. Others first marinade, in lemon-juice and sliced onion, the meat they curry.—Ols. Curry may be made of cold chicken, slices of dressed veal, lamb, hard-boiled eggs, macaroni, etc., and is an acceptable variety, in place of toujours hash, though very inferior to curries of undressed meat. Some cooks add a few small onions that have been cooked in broth; others a few capsicums or a fresh chili, which is peculiarly accep- table to those who like hot-spiced dishes.—See Fish-Curry^ p. 187 and No. 757. 535. To Boil Rice for Curry. — Pick, wash, and soak good Carolina rice, and boil it quickly, in plenty of boil- ing water and an uncovered pot, till it be tender but not soft; drain it, and put it to dry before the fire. Either heap it lightly on a dish by itself, or if the dish of curry be small, it may be served round the dish, en casserole^ with the curry in the centre.—Ohs. To avoid hardness or over-boil- ing, some cooks shower cold water upon the boiled rice, and