CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES 324 mutton-suet, or veal-kidney fat. Sew up the necks and vents, brown the fowls in a Dutch oven, then stew them in stock till tender, and serve with mushroom-sauce, or melted butter and catsup; a fowl farced in this way may be larded in the breast, and roasted.—See No. 516. 523. To Stew Giblets.—Clean and cut them as directed for giblet-soup, p. 149. Season with mixed spices. Stew them till very tender in a little stock, and before serving thicken the sauce, and add a glass of good boiling cream to it. Young green pease may be added to this stew. 524. To Pull Cold Turkey or Chickens.—Skin them, and pull the meat off the breast and wings in long flakes. Brown these in a Dutch oven, basting with butter: or brown very quickly in a fryingpan, so as not to dry the meat. Drain from the butter, and simmer the pulled meat in good gravy, seasoned with mixed spices. Thicken the gravy. Mean- while, have cut off the legs, sidesmen, and back. Season and broil these, and serving the pulled hash in the middle of the dish, place these neatly over and around it. Garnish with fried sippets. Turkey may be warmed as above; but the leg should be scored, peppered, and grilled, and the hash served under the devil'd leg.—See No. 27. 525. To stew Pigeons brown.—Season highly, and truss them with the legs inward. Return the livers into them, with a bit of butter and chopped parsley. Lay them in a small stewpan, with slices of bacon under and over them. Twenty-five minutes will cook them; serve well-seasoned brown gravy-sauce with them.—See Nos. 33, 42. 526. To Ragout Pigeons.—Clean and stuff them with a seasoning of mixed spices, salt, parsley shred very finely, a piece of fresh butter, and a few bread-crumbs. Tie them at neck and vent, half-roast them, and finish in the stewpan in good stock, to which a glass of white wine, a bit of lemon- peel, and a few fresh or pickled mushrooms may be put. Thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour. Dish the pigeons, and pour it over them. Garnish with asparagus laid between the birds. This is almost the French " Pigeons en compote J'—Obs. Cream, or the beat yolk of an egg, may be put to this, and to any white ragout, taking care to pre- vent these ingredients from curdling. The pigeons may be stuffed with a forcemeat of the chopped livers, with bread-