118 CHAP. V.—FRYING. mixture of chopped onion, sage, and bread-crumbs.—Ohs. Care should be taken to have all chops, steaks, and cutlets of a good shape; neatly trimmed, and beat out to equal thick- ness, when not at first cut smoothly and equally. 50. To Fry Fresh Sausag^es.—Dr R. Whether pork, veal, or beef sausages, they are best fried in the same way, viz. slowly, that they may heat to the heart without bursting. Sausages ought to be dressed fresh, more especially those that are bought at cooks' shops, where it is the practice to put the crumb of fresh roll soaked in a certain proportion of water into them, which immediately ferments and turns the sausage-meat sour. Very little butter or lard is required to fry pork or beef sausages *, veal must have more. If in danger of bursting, they may be pricked with a darning-needle; but if grad- ually heated, unless they are fermenting, this precaution will not be necessary. They must be lightly dredged with flour to froth them, and drained from the fat, by lying, on a dish before the fire. They are sometimes boiled, and frothed before the fire. Serve on a toast.—Ohs. Sausages were wont to be fried with apples, pared, cored, and quar- tered ; and garnished and served with the same: the prac- tice is nearly obsolete. Poached eggs and fried bread, mashed, roasted, or scalloped potatoes, or stewed red cabbage, are more suitable to this rich and savoury dish. With Tur- hey, fowl, or veal, sausage is often more acceptable than even tongue or ham. To make Sausages, see the Index. 61. To Fry Eggs with Bacon Ham or Sausage.—P. T. But for this homely dish, many an honest traveller would go without his dinner. The general fault is, that the bacon is often too hard, and cannot be cut into proper slices; to steep the slices even for a few minutes in luke- warm water would tend to remedy one defect; they must then be dried in the folds of a cloth. The colour of eggs is very easily hurt; so be sure that the frying-pan is deli- cately clean. This, in all cases, is best known by melting a little fat in it, pouring it out, and wiping hard while the pan is still hot. Let the bacon be nearly fried, draw it aside, and if the fat look in the least dark or burnt, pour it off, and, if nice cookery is wanted, let fresh material get hot