341 OMELETS EGGS. dishing them with a whole yolk in the middle. Curled slips of bacon, toasted sippets, fried parsley, mushrooms, etc., form appropriate accompaniments and garnishings to dishes of eggs.—See French Cookery for oilier Preparations of Eggs, Nos. 674^, 675, 676, and 737. 572. An Omelet—Beat up six eggs with salt, pepper in fine powder, a large spoonful of parsley very finely shred, half the quantity of chives or green onions, a small bit of eschalot, if liked, some grated ham or tongue; or if for maigre days, to which this dish is considered appropriate, lobster-meat, the soft part of oysters, shrimps, or grated cheese, may be used. Let the several things be very finely minced or rubbed through a sieve, and well mixed with the batter, adding a large spoonful of flour and some bits of butter. Fry the omelet in plenty of very hot butter in a nice fryingpan, or better, omelet-pan, stirring it constantly with a spoon till it firm, and then lifting the edges with a knife, that the butter may get below. It must not be over- dressed, or it will get tough and dry. Carefully turn the omelet, by placing a plate over it, and slip it into the frying- pan to brown on the other side: or, without turning, brown, with a salamander, or hold the pan before the fire till the raw is taken off the upper side:—double it, trim, and serve very hot.—Ohs. A more delicate but less relishing omelet may be made by seasoning the batter with lemon-peel, mace, nutmeg, etc., and using neither meat nor fish. Some cooks put a little pulped apple, or mashed potato, to omelets; others flavour them with tarragon and mushroom-powder. Omelets may have grated ham, minced roast-veal, kidney, or grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkled over them. In the old French cookery, omelets were garnished with anchovies, fat livers, red herrings, and all the pungent herbs used for toasts. To a simple omelet, the squeeze of a lemon or Seville orange is an improvement. Sweet omelets are made by rolling up apricot-jam, or any suitable preserved sweet- meat, in fine pancakes.—See Nos. 879 and 958. 573. Asparagus and Eggs,—Beat three or four eggs well with pepper and salt. Cut some dressed asparagus into pieces the size of pease, and stir them into the eggs. Melt two ounces of butter in a small stewpan, and, pouring in the mixture, stir it till it thicken, and serve it hot on a toast.—