481 CHEESECAKES AND SYLLABUBS. 927. Cheesecakes.—These are just various pudding or cake ingredients, more or less rich, baked in paste, covered. 9272. Good old-fashioned Cheesecakes.—Mix with the dry beat curd of a quart and a half of milk, a half-pound of cleaned currants, white sugar to taste, and also pounded cinnamon, the beat yolks of four eggs, the peel of a lemon grated off on lumps of the sugar used for sweetening, a half- pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy. Mix the ingredients well, and fill tartlet-pans, lined with a thin light puff-paste, nearly full. Cover, and lay thin strips of candied lemon-peel over; twenty minutes will bake them in a quick oven. They may be glazed. These, with a little nutmeg, are exactly what are known and admired at a Kichmond convivial dinner as Maids of Honour. 928. Almond-Cheesecakes.—Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and eight bitter ones, with a glass of spring or of orange-flower water. Add four ounces of sugar, a quarter-pint of cream, and the whites of two eggs beat to a froth. Mix and fill small tartlet-pans.—See Bavoury Cheesecakes^ No. 561. 929. Lemon or Orange Cheesecakes.—Grate the rinds of three lemons, and squeeze their juice over three sponge- biscuits soaked in a glass of cream. Add to this four ounces of fresh butter, four of fine sugar, and three eggs well beaten. Season with cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix the whole ingre- dients thoroughly, and bake in tartlet-pans lined with a light thin crust. Twist a few long thin slices of candied lemon- peel along the top before baking. 930. Whipt Syllabub.—Make a strong whip as directed for trifle; or in making a trifle a little of the whip may be saved, or may even be applied to this use after it has done duty on the trifle. Mix a large pint of rich sweet cream with a half-pint of sweet wine, sifted sugar to taste, the juice and fine grate of a lemon and a little cinnamon. Stir this briskly, and fill the glasses within a half-inch of the brim. With a spoon lay a little of the whip lightly on the top of each. A whip may be got by whisking the above materials, and draining the froth on a sieve. 931. Windsor Syllabub.—Pour a bottle of sherry into a deep china or glass bowl; sweeten it, and season with