COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 571 cheek, a quarter-pound of barley, a halfpenny-worth of parsley and onions, with salt, will make four quarts of good soup. A few potatoes, or any cheap vegetable, may be added. 1175. Shate-Soup.—Clean the skate thoroughly, and let it hang a day, or in cold weather two days. Skin it, cut the thick part into fillets about two inches square. Boil the head and trimmings with two onions, and some parsley, till all the strength is obtained, and boil down till only enough is left for the soup. Strain this stock. Brown as much butter in proportion to the quantity of soup as will colour and thicken the strained stock, but use no flour. Put in the fillets of skate, and boil for fifteen minutes, when add salt to taste, white pepper, catsup, and a glass of white wine if wished. This, though a cheap dish in its native locality, is an excellent one every- where, and well merits a place among Fish Soups. See Nos. 100 to 108. 1176. Bean-pudding^ to eat with Bacon or Pickled Forh^ hot Pig\s Cheeh, etc.—Boil and skin the beans, or take any left. Pound them with pepper and salt, and, if you like, a piece of butter, melted suet, or dripping. Put them in a buttered tin basin. Tie a pudding-cloth round, and boil with the pork, for from a half-hour to three quarters. 1177. Cheap Pease-Pudding.—To a pound of pease boiled for pud- ding, add two pounds of mashed potatoes, with dripping of any kind. The failure of the potato makes this at present dearer than if made of pease. 11772. Cheap Plum-Pudding loithout eggs or milk.—Eight ounces beef-suet, minced; ten ounces flour; eight ounces currants or raisins; two table-spoonfuls of sugar; one tea-spoonful of salt; the zest of two carrots grated, and one glass of sweet wine. Tie up tight in a cloth, boil three hours, and serve with a sweet sauce. This pudding may be useful at sea. 1178. Cheap Pastry of Potato^ in which Cheap Mince or Stew may he neatly served.—Mash the potatoes with a little milk, and a bit of butter, with salt, and point of finely-shred onion if you like. Border a flat dish thickly with this, and mark it, and place a layer of the mash over the dish; brown in the oven or before the fire, and scoop out the centre, or leave it as crust, and serve in it hashed beef-heart, kidney-collop, salt or other fish warmed up, etc. See No. 875. 1179. Milk-Porridge.—Stir oatmeal into boiling milk as in making stir-about. Buttermilk or whey porridge the same. 1180. Ox-liver^ sound and fresh, sliced, steeped for some hours in salt and water, and fried with fat bacon in cubes, parsley, onions, and allspice, makes a good cheap dish. 1181. Soup may be made of the rich liquor in which tripe is boiled, with rice or potatoes, parsley, and onions. Of the same liquor a fraudulent jelly is often made for the great. The culinary utensils of the poor are of great importance. Every family ought to have a cheap and small steamer of a substantial kind, fitted to the kind of pot which serves either for boiling or baking. In baking a pudding or meat, the thick metal lid of this sort of pot is first made hot and laid on the hearth, and the pot is turned upside- down over it; turf embers are placed all around or over this little oven, in which meat with potato-pastry, fish-pie with potato, rice-