OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS. 325 crumbs, minced parsley, butter, spices, and a little cayenne, and dressed as a brown ragout, by browning them in the fryingpan previous to stewing, thickening the sauce with browned flour or roux^ and adding to it a spoonful of cat- sup, or a glass of red wine. Some good cooks stew pigeons with white cabbage^ cut as for pickling, serving the cabbage round the pigeons; or stew them in hrown gravy highly seasoned, adding mushrooms or a little catsup. Others stew them with a lettuce quartered instead of cabbage. Pigeons pot very well, and are, though common, most excellent as a pie, either cold or hot.—N.B. The cabbage, when thus used with stewed pigeons, should be first braised. To roast or hroil Pigeons^ see pp. 103 and 112; Pigeon Soup, p. 146. 527. Ducks with young Pease., a favourite Dish prepared in the best manner.—Clean, truss, and singe the ducks, which about August should be plump though young. Season them with salt, pepper, cayenne and mixed spices. Place them between layers of bacon in a stewpan that will just hold them, and moisten them with a little stock. Stew them from thirty-five minutes to an hour, according to the size and age of the birds. Meanwhile parboil and afterwards fry three pints of the most delicate green pease with a half-pound of good bacon cut in bits. While the pease still retain their good colour, drain off all the fat, dust some flour over them; add a little water or stock, a bunch of parsley and young onions, some pepper and salt, and the ducks carved (if too large) into proper pieces. Serve the pease over the ducks, but let all fat be carefully skimmed off. Take out the pars- ley and onions before serving. This is much the same dish as the French Canard a petit pois.—Obs. The ducks may be roasted; but the stringy summer ducks that come with early green pease are much better dressed as above. Some persons will prefer the pease fried in butter instead of bits of bacon ; and the dish, if not so rich, will be at least as refined. Chickens are excellent cooked in this manner, or with aspar- agus. 528. To Stew Ducks with Cabbage.—Stew cut cabbage in top-fat with seasonings. Par-roast a large fat duck, and then stew it in gravy well seasoned with herbs, onions, sage, pepper, and salt. Thicken the gravy, and serve the duck with the cabbage under it and the gravy or sauce in the