348 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. salmon—both d, la sometliing or other—fills the centre of the table, and constitutes the solid part, there are arranged round it four highly-dressed entrees; or, if economy is studied, two entrees^ and two more of vegetables dressed. We give two examples by M. Soyer:— Bill of Fare for a Dinner for a party of two or three ladies. —Centre, fillets of soles d la Hollandaise^ and round this, two lamb cutlets, with pease; a fillet of game, with a puree of mushrooms; two quenelles of rabbits with truf[les; and half a partridge in Salmi, A plainer Bill of Fare for a gentleman or two.—In the centre a slice of cod and oyster-sauce round it.—Entrees, 1st, Two mutton-cutlets, a la Reforme ; 2d, Four Jerusalem artichokes, d la Bechamel; 3d, Fried potatoes; 4th, Minced beef, with sauce piquante. Recherche Bill of Fare for a small Anglo-French Dinner. —Centre, a slice of salmon, en matelote. Entrees—1st, Two fillets of grouse, a la Bohemienne; 2d, Two escalopes of beef, with poivrade-sauce; 3d, Two croquets of chicken, with a puree of fat livers; 4th, A veal sweetbread, d la Financiers For larger Anglo-French dinners, with six entrees, may be served soup—the indispensable potage—fish of some kind (dressed with a particular sauce having a fine name), and removes, which consist of all manner of roasts, fries, and stews; a loin of veal, wdth celery, or roots; neck of veal, with Brussels sprouts; breast of veal, with pease ; calf's head dressed in several ways, or as turtle; beef-tongues stewed, etc. Turkey, pheasants, hare, game and poultry, etc., are all proper removes of top and bottom dishes. Side- dishes, or flancs^ consist of such things as small hams; tongues glazed and dressed in various ways; loins and necks of veal, mutton, and lamb, in many ways; spring chickens, with asparagus or mushrooms; ducklings, with green pease; hot small pies, of several sorts; casseroles of rice, of various kinds, suitably filled. The flancs ought properly to consist of one solid dish; but it is often convenient to dispense with so many solid pieces; and in this case some of the hors d^ceuvres may occupy the place flanks ought to take in a fully furnished table. If so, the pastry cases of the partic- ular article ought to be made larger than when hors d^oeuvres