176 CHAP. VII. FISH. sapid, it may, in cool weather, liang from one to three days. Sauce^—Melted butter, or lobster or caper sauce. Skate fries very well when first parboiled for five minutes, cut in thin slices, and dipped in egg and bread crumbs; it eats well cold, with mustard, pepper, and vinegar. It is also very good parboiled, and then grilled in slices, serving it with parsley and butter, or caper-sauce. 132. Another Way to Boil Skate. Make a stock of the trimmings of the skate, parsley, onions, a clove of garlic, a sprig of basil, and a half-pint of vinegar. When this is cooked put in the skate, put also in the liver, let it just boil, and leave it twelve minutes covered with a cloth under the lid. Drain and dish on a napkin. Make a sauce with the brown meat nicely minced, and some of the stock. Garnish with the liver.—Serve Caper-sauce, Skate is also served with onion-sauce, parsley and butter, or beurre noir, i. e. butter fried till black. 133. To Crimp Skate. Clean, skin, and cut the fish into fillets, which must be tied to keep them round. Boil these quickly in water made very briny,—drain the fillets, take away the strings,—and serve with caper-sauce, parsley and butter, or shrimp-sauce. Obs, The French stew this excellent if liomely fish in a whiteness. "We have, however, seen a small kind of skate which is caught along the north-east coast of Scotland, of a leaden-blue colour, called by- fishermen the deen or dun skate, which is more delicate than any other kind we have met with. In places where this fish forms a great part of the food of the common people, it is best relished when it is hung till dry, by which time it has acquired so strong a smell of ammonia as to be intoler- able to the uninitiated. This fish, in those primitive days when as yet turtle was not, used to be esteemed, when eaten cold, with mustard and vinegar, quite a grand regale by those sober citzens of Edinburgh who repaired on holidays to the fishing-hamlets around the city. It is thought to eat like lobster,—by persons of lively imagination. Skate is said, when out of season, to produce cholera and other violent diseases. The same thing is alleged of salmon in the state of foul or " black fish and there is no question but that fish undergoes a change at particular seasons, which renders it for the time exceedingly improper food. There are instances of seamen dying in consequence of eating dolphin. Shell-fish especially mussels, sometimes occasion violent disorders, and kippered salmon is, according to Dr Christison, as poisonous as sausages. It is said that accidents of this nature may be avoided by the simple test of putting a piece of silver into the fish-kettle. If it blacken, the fish should be con- sidered dangerous, if not absolutely poisonous.—P. S. T.