370 CHAP. II. FPtENCII COOKERY. head and feet; but take care not to break the skin. Make a forcemeat of any degree of richness you choose, of veal, beef, suet, calf's udder, etc. Mince basil, thyme, and sage, and add also panada; beat eggs to bind. [Read Quenelles^ French Cookery.!^ Give plenty of spices. Now proceed as directed for godiveau. Lay the boned pig on a cloth, and cover it inside with the forcemeat. Rasp some ham over all. Try to keep the pig as near its natural shape as possible. Sew it up. Bind it in a napkin with tape, and boil it in stock seasoned with roots and herbs. When unswaddled, after two hours' slow boiling, wipe it dry, and serve with brown Espagnole^ or if cold, on a napkin.* 657. Jamhon d la Broche,—Take a Bayonne or other ham, sound, fresh, well-selected, and at least twenty pounds weight. Trim it all round. Steep it for two or three days ac- cording to the saltness.—See No. 10. If to be very superior you must steep it in Spanish wine. Cover it all over with slices of lard, and lay it in a cradle spit. It must have a slack fire for at least five hours, and be basted frequently with hot water to freshen it, and dilate the pores, which basting with wine would contract. When nearly ready re- move the skin and cover the surface lightly with fine bread- crumbs.—For Saucey boil down the wine in which the ham was steeped, and put to it the gravy which will flow from the ham when taken from the spit, and the juice of two lemons. Skim this and serve all hot. The above is one of the precious receipts of the Society of the Caveau Moderne, If any one choose to attempt this piece of extravagance, a good Yorkshire or Westmoreland ham, well cured, will answer his purpose quite well. Our authorities all speak * Dr Redgill, whose experiments on pig, from first to last, were ex- tremely interesting, totally lost one stuffed pig by overboiling; and had another considerably injured by the sewing tearing the skin. But his final success was triumphant; and he wrote down as a canon of cookery, that all s^wjfec? meats, as pig au moine hlaric^ haggis sausage, etc., are not to be boiled by their apparent size, but by their soliuity; as forcemeats of any kind will cook in a third or even a half less time than a joint of meat of the original compact texture. The sewing should be the stitch surgeons use in sewing up wounds. If the cook would avoid the catastrophe of her pig, goose, or haggis bursting she will boil these important articles in a napkin on a fish-drainer, that, if an accident do occur, ready help may be administered. Silk thread is more apt to tear the integument than any other thread; the cook should therefore for her purposes use soft thread made of cotton.—See Fig^s Olieeh^ National Dishes.