162 CHAP. VII.—FISH. very earlj, is opened so soon as the month of December,— the Severn fishery even in November; and from that time some fishery is opened every week, till in April nearly the whole are in operation. The salmon of the Thames is that which was most esteemed in London ; that of the Tay is the favourite with the inhabitants of the northern metropolis,— probably, in both cases, because the fish from those rivers are brought to the respective markets in greater perfection than those of more distant rivers.—Steam and commerce have nearly banished salmon from the Thames. We have ever remarked, that the salmon of. a man's native stream, or of the river of his native province, is to him the best flavoured. Among other marks of degenerate times, is the decrease of salmon in our rivers; and it is perhaps the only one that is undeniable. This fish at one time was so plentiful an article of food, that stipulations were made by Scottish servants against having it above three times a-week for their kitchen ; and the same conditions were observed in indenturing the apprentices of Newcastle, Perth, and other towns. Since Mr Dempster's discovery, the well-boat, and packing salmon in ice, there has been no occasion for the enforce- ment of the clause against salmon-eating. The preservation of this source of wealth and luxury is still an object of legislative investigation; and we doubt not, that a subject coming home so immediately to men's purses and stomachs, will meet with all the attention it merits. The destruction of the fry is the chief evil. We have known instances in which whole cart-loads of salmon-fry have been used as manure. The poor of London, which draws into its enormous maw nearly all the fish of the kingdom, occasion- ally enjoy this luxury, though not in the best state. Steam navigation has revolutionized the trade in salmon. We are now supplied not only from the Scottish and Irish fisheries, but from Norway. Grilse is seldom sent to London, though in Paris, where cookery, if not more rich than in London, is thought to be more refined, the trout and grilse, from superior delicacy, are more prized than the ripe salmon. We ought to inform our gourmand readers, that a fish, as we have ate it, boiled in the pickling kettle, where perhaps some dozens of cut fish were preparing for the London market, is superbly done,—meltingly rich, and of incomparable flavour. Such a thing is to be procured