500 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. take them up and drain. Cut a piece out of the top with a sharp knife, and with a mustardspoon scoop out all the pulp, seeds, and films. Boil them filled with and floated in clarified syrup for forty minutes. In four days repeat the boiling for twenty minutes. Do this four times. Last of all boil the syrup candy-high, adding more syrup, and keep the oranges well covered with it. If the colour fall, boil them up, and add fresh syrup.—Ohs. Several pretty dishes are made with preserved oranges. And orange-skins emptied, may be filled with rich custard, with calves'-feet jelly, or other jellies, or with a mixture of beat almonds, sugar, cream, and seasonings.—See No. 721. Tablets and Confectionary Drops. A FEW receipts in this department may be useful in most families, as these things are cordial and sometimes even medicinal, and may be easily and cheaply prepared at home. 997. To make Cinnamon, Lemon, lioy^eliound, or Ginger Tablet. — Take either oil of cinnamon, fine sifted China ginger, essence or grate of lemon pounded, in the proportion wanted for flavouring the kind of tablet to be made. Two drops of oil of cinnamon, a half-ounce of ground ginger, or the grate of two lemons, is a medium quantity to a pound of sugar. Mix the flavouring ingredient well with the boiling sugar, and pour it out, when boiled candy-height, on a marble slab, stone, or flat dish, previously rubbed with sweet oil. Mark the tablet quickly, ere it hardens, in small squares, with a roller and knife. Drops may be made of the same material, dropping it regularly on paper, and taking the drops off with a knife when firm. Any kind of sugar-drops may be made by adding different flavouring in- gredients to the boiled sugar; as, for example, for coffee- drops a little strong clear tincture of the coffee-berry; for clove-drops, essence of cloves; for peppermint-drops, essence of peppermint, and so on. 998. Fruit-Pastes.—Oranges, apples, cherries, pears, rasp- berries, etc., may all be made into paste. Boil the fruit with clarified sugar to a very thick marmalade. Season, and mould it into thin cakes. Dry these in a stove. The pastes must be small, but of any form or variety of forms; they may be ornamented by having the impress of some of the