CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 566 vinegar, and some roots of tlie Florence lily. Infuse till a fine tincture is obtained, and strain oflf the infusion. Or use prepared cochineal to colour. 1160. Lavender-Vinegar—French.—To every pint of the best champagne vinegar put half an ounce of fresh lavender- flowers, and the thin rind of a lemon. Infuse for twenty- four hours in a stone jar, then take the jar and set it over hot embers to digest for ten or twelve hours. Filter and bottle the vinegar, dipping the corks in wax. 1161. Honey-water for the Hair.—Mix three drachms of tincture of ambergris, and one of tincture of musk, with a little spirit of wine. Afterwards add a pint of spirit of wine, or strong spirits, and shake all well and often. 1162. Cold Cream for the Skin.—Take two ounces of oil of sweet almonds, a drachm of white wax, and one of sper- maceti. Melt them in an earthen pipkin, and stir in a mor- tar till quite smooth and cold. Add orange-flower or rose- water till the mixture is as thin as double cream. Keep in a gallipot covered with leather. 1163. Lip-Salve.—Put four ounces of the best olive-oil into a bottle, with a half-ounce of picked alkanet-root; stop the bottle, and set it in the sun till the oil is coloured ; strain it into an earthen pipkin in which an ounce of white wax and one of clarified mutton-suet are placed; melt this by the fire, and perfume with a drop of oil of rhodium, or bergamot, or lavender; pour it off the sediment into very small gallipots. 1164. Paste for Chopped Hands.—Make a paste of fresh lard, honey, yolks of eggs, and a little of the fine dust of oatmeal or of bean-flour: it may be perfumed with a drop of essence of lemon. CHEAP DISHES AND COOKEKY FOR THE POOE. We are convinced that the art of preparing cheap dishes is much better understood by the intelligent poor than by those who assume the task of instructing them. It is not, therefore, for the direct use of the poorer classes, but for the information of those who, from charitable motives, are anxious to devote part of the abundance with which Providence has blessed them to their humble brethren, that this section is added to the Cook's Manual.