CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 356 rub them through a sieve, and finish with boiling cream.— See No. 267. 605. La Ducelle^ Beauvilliers' Receipt—Mince mush- rooms, parsley, young onions or eschalots, equal quantities of each, put some butter into a stewpan with as much rasped bacon; put them upon the fire; season with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, a little grated nutmeg, and a bay-leaf; moisten with a spoonful of Espagnole or veloute ; let it simmer, taking care to stir it; when sufficiently done, finish it with a thick- ening of yolks of eggs well beaten, which must not boil; the juice of a lemon is not necessary, but may be added. Put it into a tureen, and serve it with any thing that is served en papillote, 606. L'Aspic, or Savoury Ornamental Jelly.—Make the jelly-stock of fowls, knuckles of veal and ham, rabbits, or whatever gelatinous meat is convenient. Flavour it with vinegar, in which a large fagot of aromatic herbs has been boiled, as basil, burnet, tarragon, and chervil. Season with aromatic spices. Strain the jelly; let it cool; take off the top; keep back the sediment, and clarify it with the whites of four eggs well whisked in it, and their broken shells. Continue to whisk it over the fire till it look curdled and white, then draw it to the side of the stove, and throw cloths over it. When quite settled, clear and bright, strain it off gently, and keep the jelly to use in garnishing dishes.—Ohs. If for moulding, the jelly must be made very stiff. This jelly does to ornament fish, lobster-salads, and dressed dishes of various kinds. If for meat-dishes, the jelly must be sea- soned so as best to suit the kind of viands it is to garnish, whether ham, turkey, cold game, etc. It must be run through the jelly-bag till very clear and amber-coloured,— See No. 174. N.B.—The other popular sauces used by the French—as Bechamel, Mayonnaise, etc.—are either the same as our own that go under similar names, or the difference is pointed out in the receipts given for them in our Chapter, Sauces.—See Ohs. Nos. 268, 274, 289, etc. 607. French Soups. Soups, under the French names, or what is the same thing, under a different name, though the same soup, are so