SHORTBREAD, SPONGE-CAKEj AND MACAROONS. 507 light cake, and will bake qiiicklj. It may either be iced, when baked, or have sifted sugar strewed over it before baking, 1015. Scottish Shortbread^ or Short-Cake.—To the fourth of a peck of flour (two pounds) take six ounces of sifted sugar, and of candied citron, orange-peel, and blanched almonds, two ounces each. Cut these in rather long thin slices, which cut in dice and mix with the flour. Eub down among the flour a pound of butter in small bits, melt a half- pound more, and with this work up the flour, etc. The less kneading it gets the more short and crisp the cakes will be. Roll out the paste lightly into a large well-shaped oval cake, about an inch thick, and divide this the narrow way, so as to have two cakes somewhat the shape of a Saxon arch. Pinch the cakes neatly at the edges, and dab them on the top with the instrument, the dahher^ used for the purpose, or with a fork. Strew caraway-com fits over the top, and a few strips of citron-peel. Bake on paper, rubbed with flour. The cakes may be square, or oblong.—Ohs. Plainer short- bread may be made by using less butter and no candied peel. The whole of the butter may be melted, which makes the process easier. Chopped almonds and butter are used in larger quantity for Scotch shortbread wanted very rich for sending as a holiday present to England. 1016. Savoy or Sponge Cake.— Whisk twelve eggs till white and thick, and mix with them a pound of sifted sugar. Beat these very well together, and then gradually mix in a half-pound of flour, a seasoning of essence of lemon, or lemon-grate, and a little orange-flower-water. Butter a melon or Turk's-cap mould, and fill it within two inches of the top. Bake for three quarters of an hour, and, when ready, take out the cake, shaking the mould to loosen it. Sponge-biscuits of the same material are baked in small tin moulds, and iced or glazed with sifted sugar.—Obs. These light cakes, or the remains of them, are well suited to fine puddings, trifles, or tipsy-cake. 1017. MacaroonsJ^—Blanch and pound with the whites of four eggs a pound of Jordan almonds. Add to this two * An endless variety of small biscuit is made in the manner of maca- roons, as light lemon-biscuit, by using grated peel and the yolks of three eggs; chocolate-biscuit, orange and common biscuit; Judges' biscuit, i.e., biscuit for hungry lawyers, kept long in court.