CHAP. III. ROASTING. 80 that our brisk, old Nabob hailed with high satisfaction the lordly Sirloin^ of a delicate, rich brown; frosted as if with seed-pearls, a labour of love which had occupied him for five hours, and now smoked in savouriness on the board of the Committee. In the evening of the same day, and while the process was still fresh in his head, after sundry disputes with Dr Redgill on the underdone and the overdone^ the Nabob dictated something like the following discourse on roasting:— No printed rules can make a good Roaster. Practice and vigilant attention alone can produce that vara avis of the kitchen. In the French kitchen this is a department by itself. He who rules the roast attends to that only. No rule can be given as to time. The cook must judge. Our time in the following receipts is generally under^ as the safe side. Choose your meat well: but even then no meat will roast to advantage that is not kept the proper length of time; and this in every case must be determined by the weather and the age of the animal. Two days of hot weather are equal to a week of cold in rendering meat fit for the spit, or hien mortifie, Londoners often roast their beef too soon. In the North of England, and other places, the roasted sirloin is frequently salted, and eaten with vinegar and mustard. A salted sirloin, or leg of mutton, eats tolerably well; but they are undeniably a relic of those days when the squire or yeoman killed his own beef and mutton, and his lady found it necessary to keep the holiday joint, however long, to grace the holiday. Even in summer, by proper attention, meat will keep much longer than is generally supposed. Have the roast properly jointed, which saves much mortification to the carver, and much haggling and mangling of the meat. Let it be spunged with salt and water, and well dried. See that the spit, when used, be brightly clean. If not, scour with sand and water, or Bath brick, and wipe dry with a clean cloth. If there is too much fat, some of it may be previ- ously cut off for paste or puddings. Cover the fat for the first hour with kitchen-paper, fastened on with twine.* A * Redgill insisted upon a warning post here, as tiie worthy gentleman, in the eagerness of his appetite, had one day a large bodle-pin fixed in his gullet, like a salmon-hook, for a good half-hour; which some of Meg's queans had used in skewering (new reading, securing) the paper.