419 LE BON DIABLE. pared at Pondicherry:—Score the devil (whether of duck, goose, or turkey) deeply in all directions; and, seasoning it highly with mixed spices, send it from the table to be broiled. Meanwhile, .take from each dish at table a spoonful of sauce or gravy, and, stirring this well in a silver saucepan over the fire, have it ready, boiling-hot, to pour over the grill, or hon diable, which is then handed round.—Ohs. The parts usually deviled are the rump, the gizzard, and drumsticks. Soy, lemon-juice, and made-mustard may be added to the sauce. — See Devils and Salmis, Nos. 550, 672-74. Deviled Almonds to serve vnth Wine.—Blanch, dry, and fry them in fresh butter, of a light brown. Drain, dust with salt and cayenne-pepper, and serve hot as a relish. 769. Indian Burdwan.—This eastern preparation is of the English genus Devil, or French Salmi. It is made of cold poultry, kid, rabbits, venison, or other game, but is best of venison. Make a sauce of melted butter with cayenne, or, if possible, a fresh Chili; a bit of garlic, essence of anchovy, and a sliced Spanish onion. Stew over a spirit-lamp till the onion is pulpy, when the Burdwan will be ready. Squeeze in a lime or Seville orange. Serve round very hot.* On other National Dishes we have nothing more to say. When not French or Anglo-French, they are often barbarous; of the fourteenth century, or earlier.—The cookery of our ancestors is not to be boasted of; but in the march of im- provement, if France took the lead, England has followed. * It would be very easy to swell this section of our Manual with a formidable array of uncouth dishes and strange names, with Indian, Syrian, Turkish, and Persian Yaughs, Cabauhs, and Cuscussuies^ etc., as modern travellers, and particularly the French, have paid considerable attention to Asiatic cookery; but this we consider mere waste of space, which may be more usefully employed. We have, however, been specially requested to make room for this Italian preparation:— Sughlio, or Gravy of Beef extracted in Wine.—This Italian preparation is a rich gravy, in which fowls, game, mullet, truffles, macaroni, and other delicacies are cooked. Prepare beef as at Nos. 59, 60, 256, but substitute Madeira or sherry for water. The pot must be carefully closed to prevent the escape of the precious steams : or the Sughlio may be prepared as well by placing the meat and wine in a jar, set in boiling water, or in an oven. Season with mace, cloves, ginger, and what other seasomngs are appropriate to the thing to be afterwards cooked in this rich cullis. Oniors, garlic, mushrooms, and celery are the suitable vegetables, with aromatic herbs. The meat from which the gravy is drawn need not be cut, and should not be overdone, as it will of itself afford a luxurious dish, and after being sauced will allow sufficient juices or gravy to remain to cook any thing wished in 8ugTilio.