516 CHAP, v.—BREAD AND BISCUITS. 1044. French Bread. — Many sorts of fine bread baked witb milk, eggs, and butter, receive this name. To four pounds of the finest flour put a quart of lukewarm milk, a little salt, a quarter-pound of melted butter, and a half pint of sweet yeast; whisk the fluids together, and add two or three beat eggs; mix the flour with this, handling it as little as possible; let the dough rise, and mould the bread into rolls, cakes, etc. Bake on tins in a quick oven, and rasp the loaves. 1045. Sally Lunn Cakes.—Make them as No. 1044, but dissolve some sugar in the hot milk; and if not to be served immediately, do not over-bake, as they should be re-heated before buttering : a pound of flour makes six cakes. A blade of saflron boiled in the milk enriches the colour of these or any other cakes.* 1046. Yorkshire Cakes are made as above, only moulded smaller. 1047. Irish Brade Breachd.\—To as much flour as will make two quartern-loaves put a half-pound of melted butter. Make the dough with fresh yeast, and when it has risen, mix in a half-pound of beat sugar, a half-pound of currants, picked, cleaned, and dried; the same quantity of stoned raisins; a few sweet almonds blanched and chopped, and some candied orange-peel sliced. Mould and bake the loaves. They may be of any size, and baker^s dough may be used. 1047^. Oatmeal Cakes.—The proper making of these cakes requires both skill and care. Have for the best kind, finely ground double-sifted oatmeal, such as is only seen to the north of the Spey. Add a little salt; make, one by one, cakes about five inches diameter, with barely enough scalding water to moisten the oaten flour. Knead with hands, but as little as possible, and toast very slowly at a distance from the fire, first on one side and then the other, on a toaster * Ohs.—Our admirable master, Careme, gives an account of these cakes, under the designation of Soli Lemne. French ears are about as well at- tuned to English sounds as are those of the New Zealanders. The Soli Lemne are prepared by French pastry-cooks under the name Koqites an Beurre or buttered cakes, a preparation which is served as an entremet. It may, however, be quite possible that the corruption of Soli lemne into Salh/ Lunn, is English ; thougli the French Brit-poudin, Plomb-cahe, and Bif-tih de mouton, warrants another conclusion. f This Irish word signifies spotted or freckled. This mottled loaf is the holiday-cake of Munster and Leinster.