CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 442 shrimps, use fried crumbs. Sweet Patties the same ; but the paste may have a little sugar, and be seasonad with essence of lemon, or any flavouring ingredient suitable to what is to be served in them, adding a very little custard or Creme Patissiere.—N.B. Never fill patties so full as to slop.—See No. 831. 829. Beef Patties or Podovies.—Shred a tender underdone piece of lean roast beef, with a little ot" the firm fat. Season with pepper, salt, onion, an anchovy boned and chopped, and a very little eschalot or Chili vinegar. The podovies may be made either by putting the mince into hot paste like apple-pasty, and frying them, or be baked in patty- pans in a good plain crust made of dripping, suet, or lard. 830. To prepare Meat for small Pies for hot Suppers and Luncheons; or for Patties.—Take in the proportion of a pound of fillet of veal, a pound of beef, and a half-pound of suet. Chop the meat roughly, and the suet less than the meat. Season with salt, pepper, and allspice. The meat thus prepared will keep some days if pressed into a jar. When ready to be baked in saucers, or as little raised pies or patties, add a little minced parsley. Or keep the pies baked, and heat them, when wanted.—See Godiveau, No. 692. 831. Sweet Patties.—Mince the boiled meat of a calf's foot; three pared apples, and a little candied orange and lemon peel: add fresh lemon-grate, and the juice of a lemon, a little fine sugar, a small glass of sweet wine, a little nut- meg, the chopped yolk of two hard-boiled eggs, and, if wished, a little shred mutton-suet or marrow. Bake in puff-paste. Sweet Patties may be made like small mince- pies, and seasoned in an endless variety of ways. They may be made as Turn-overs^ Siud fried in plenty of lard or drip- ping. They are a favourite family-dish when baked as Turn-overs on tins. Puddings. Without pretending to make a skilled cook by book, we believe that any intelligent beginner may compound a good pudding by attending to the following simple rules and plain directions :—Attention is all that is required, and a little- manual dexterity in turning the pudding out of the mould