PROVISIONS IN SEASON. 545 but young fowls get dearer. Pheasants now got, and generally wood- pigeons, snipes, and wild-ducks, begin to appear. Fish—Cod, had- docks, brill, tench, and all sorts of shell-fish. Oysters, which come in at London in August, and at Edinburgh in September, are now excellent. Vegetables—Beans, brocoli, and cabbage of all kinds; beet, onions, leeks, turnips, carrots, lettuce, cresses, chardoons, endive, celery, skirrets, cucumbers (scarce), spinage, and dried herbs; aspar- agus gets rare. Fruits—All sorts of apples and pears, nuts, walnuts, chestnuts, grapes, and retarded gooseberries. NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER. Meat.—Beef and mutton prime. House-lamb and veal. Sucking- pig. Buck-venison goes out. Fish—All good about this time. Salmon dear. Poultry gets very dear in large towns about this season, but it is to be got of all kinds; also woodcocks and snipes, mallards and sea-fowl; game generally cheaper now. It is, however, quite impossible rigidly to fix the seasons of pro- visions, and much less their price. Meat, generally speaking, is cheapest in the latter end of autumn, and dearest in spring. Beef is found prime all the year round, but small natural pasture-fed beef is at the best in October; so is hill-mutton: both fall away in the winter, and get lean in spring. Veal is good from Christmas till after Mid- summer, and is at the cheapest from the end of May until August. House-lamb is less liable to variation than other meat; in fact, it is seldom cheap, and always very dear till after Christmas. Grass-lamb is one of the few things that is at its best when dearest. In August and September it becomes cheaper but coarser. Pork, as it varies much in quality, also varies in price, from local situation. It is generally dear in London. Poultry is found cheapest in great towns in the end of summer ; and, in remote places, about Christmas, or before spring; — or wont to be, for now railways and steamers have annihilated space and nearly equalized prices. The same mighty agents have hastened and prolonged the seasons of many table luxuries. Edin- burgh, for example, now gets green pease from London so early as May, and returns the gift in September; so that both cities may have a four months' season. Wild-fowl and sea-birds, like fish, depend in price on the supply. Eggs get dearest before Christmas, and are cheapest before Easter. Vegetables, except perhaps young pease and early small salad-herbs, are always best when cheapest, that is, in June, July, and August. They are often cheap in spring, when the gardeners clear their grounds to receive fresh crops. Eschalots and carrots to store, and beans, cabbage, and cucumbers to pickle, will be best bought in August and September; onions, potatoes, carrots, and turnips in October. Beef and mutton may be cured for winter-store, or for hams, with most advantage about the beginning of November, both from quality and price. Hams, tongues, and sausages are in season all the year round, and are absolutely necessary when veal and poultry form the principal fare. Fruits ought to be preserved when their several kinds are at the best and cheapest, as plums and melons about August; Seville oranges in February or March.