EXPLANATION OF UNUSUAL 546 GLOSSAEY OF THB MORE UNUSUAL CULINARY TERMS, FRENCH AND ENGLISH. Instead of elaborate definitions, we shall, in most instances, merely refer to the page at which the dish or process signified is fully ex- plained. Aspic, see page 356. Assiettes Volantes, small dishes handed round. Atelets, silver ornamental skewers. Bain Marie^ p. 163. Warding, covering with thin lard birds or meat to be dressed. Blanc, a rich stock in which tripe, etc., is stewed, p. 386. Blanch, to, to soak meat or vegetables in hot water, also to scald almonds, or give firmness or whiteness, by a short rapid boil. BlanqueMes, small minced dishes, see p. 366. Boudin, any French pudding, but used in this work only to signify puddings of meat or fish, p. 365. Bouilli, boiled meat of any kind, but generally said of boiled beef. Bouillon, broth of meat; and boiled liquor, of many kinds. Bouillon, Court, a French preparation for boiling fish, p. 379. Braise, to, see p. 311. Braises, dishes braised or cooked in a braise, p. 311. Brisket, the breast of beef, veal, or lamb. Broth, a term frequently used for stoclc. Browning—see Nos. 255, 369,—used to give soups, sauces, and gravies a fine colour. Buisson, a cluster, or hush of small pastry, piled up on the dish. Cannelons, small collars or rolls of minced meat, or of rice or pastry with fruit; so named from resembling cinnamon. Casserole, an edging, border, wall, or encasement of rice, paste, or mashed potatoes, in which meats are said to be served en Casserole, or saucepan shape: also a saucepan. Chops, slices of meat, usually cut from the ribs or neck of mutton, pork, or lamb, and generally with a bit of bone. Civet, a dark thickish stew, generally of hare or venison, p. 359. Clarify, to, to refine, to purify by boiling, skimming, straining, or filtering, pp. 115, 129, 469. Collar, to, to bone, season, and roll up meat or fish before dressing. Crimp, to, said of fish cut into fillets or slices, as cod, salmon, skate, or turbot, when very fresh, and boiled rapidly, till crisp and curdy. Croquettes, p. 331.