MUSHROOMS. TRUFFLES. 217 ham may be put to a brown ragout of mushrooms, fine herbs, onions, and parsley, keeping in view what they have to accompany. 2142 To Grill Mushrooms, Or Mushrooms d la Bordelais, Clean large, firm, fresh-gathered flaps. Skin them, and lightly score the under side. Put them into an earthen dish, and baste them with oil or melted butter, and strew pepper and salt over them. When they have been steeped in this marinade for an hour or more, broil them on both sides for ten minutes over a clear fire, and serve them with a sauce of oil or melted butter, in which are parsley, young onions, a little garlic (all minced), and the juice of a lemon poured over them: or they may be done in the oven, have a sauce drawn from their trimmings and stalks, and flavoured, as No. 2141. See No. 267. 215. To Stew Truffles in Champagne, Or serve in Croutons, Soak in warm water for an hour, and then clean with a scrubbing-brush a dozen fine black truffles, picking out the eyes. Wash thoroughly. Have a stew-pan ready, covered in the bottom with slices of fat bacon, a sliced carrot and turnip, two or three onions, and a fagot of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, six cloves, and a blade of mace. Lay in the truffles and half cover them with good white stock, and when they have simmered half an hour, add a pint of Champagne, and simmer a half-hour more, keeping the lid very close. Let them cool: place the stew-pan in ice with a weight over the cover. Drain, dry, and serve cold on a damask napkin, with the gravy also cold in a sauce-tureen. But they are often served hot, and also as truffle-sauce^ if sliced the size of a florin, and served in their own hot gravy. They are kept bottled at the Italian warehouses, and a few make a delicious addition to many sauces. Truffles may be fried cut in fillets, and sauced with jelly-gravy and wine; glazed and served with glazed sippets or croustades; and also in a large croustade with Italienne sauce. They are dressed in many other ways; but we have given the best on the competent authority of the great Car^me. K