292 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 418. To Dress the Inside of a Cold Sirloin.—Cut tlie meat in long and rather narrow slices of an inch thick, leaving a little of the firm fat upon each. Trim and season these with salt and mixed spices, dredge them with flour, and heat them, without any thing like violent frying, in the gravy saved from the cold joint, seasoned with an anchovy, if you like, an eschalot minced, or a shred onion, and a little vinegar. Garnish with scraped horseradish, or fried parsley, or better, sippets. N.B. The slices may also be broiled and served over the hot sauce with fried potatoes. 419. To Fricassee Cold Beef.—Cut away all skins, gristles, and fat. Cut the meat into thin small slices. Have ready a sauce made of stock, thickened with roux or butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with shred parsley and young onions, pepper, and salt. Strain the sauce when it is well flavoured, and just heat the meat in it, soaking by the side of the fire, add a glass of red wine, the yolk of an egg well beat, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the fricassee for a few minutes, but do not let it boil, or, like all re-warmed things, it will harden. 420. Olives of Dressed Beef.—Cut the meat as for fresh beef-olives. Season the slices, and spread thinly over them a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, seasonings, and a little finely shred suet or marrow. Roll them up, tie, and stew them in a relishing gravy saved from the joint, or drawn from the beef-bones, and thickened with butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with an anchovy or a little catsup. This makes also a nice family-dish when the bits of cold meat, either in small slices or minced, are seasoned, and rolled up in a paste of mashed potatoes and flour. Having been closed at the ends and edges they are fried in dripping, and browned before the fire.—See Olives au Roi^ p. 28S. 421. To Hash Cold Beef—Cut down the meat either into large slices, or thinly-cut mouthfuls, trimming away all burnt outside, fat, gristle, skin, etc. Set aside the meat thus prepared with what gravy you have saved, and draw a pint of broth from the bones well broken, the lean pieces of meat that are not used, and the hard, or overdone. Season this gravy highly with pepper and salt, allspice, two onions, and a fagot of parsley. Thicken it with brown roux or flour