514 CHAP. V.—HOUSEHOLD BREAD, ETC. made as above, but flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower- water, mace, cinnamon, etc.; and what are called Brandy scrolls^ with ratafia, and the spices used for gingerbread-nuts. Houseliold Bread, etc. Every year produces something new, either in baking or in combining the materials of which bread may be made. Like novelties in other things, not one in a hundred succeeds, and from the time of Cobbett we have little or nothing that is both good and new on this subject. We therefore adhere to our old and tried authority for household-baking. 1039. Common Wheaten Bread^ nearly on Cohhett^s Plan, —Put a bushel of flour into a trough. Make a deep hole in the middle of the heap, and take for a bushel of flour a pint of good yeast, and stir it well up with as much milk- warm water. Pour this into the hole made in the flour; then take a spoon, and work it round the edges of this body of moisture, so as to bring into it, by degrees, flour enougli to make a thin batter, which must be well stirred for a minute or two Throw a handful of flour over the surface of this batter, and cover the whole with the folds of a cloth to keep it warm. Set it by the fire, regulating the distance by the state of the weather and season of the year. When the batter has risen enough to make cracks in the flour, form the whole mass into dough thus:—Begin by strewing six ounces of salt over the heap ; and then, beginning round the hole containing the batter, work the flour into the bat- ter, pouring in milk-warm soft water or milk as it is wanted. When the whole mass is moistened, knead it well, that the fermented paste may be duly mixed with the whole mass. Mould the loaves; let them rise for twenty minutes, and put them into the oven, which should be previously heated. The loaves will require a length of time to fire proportioned to their size.—N.B. To boil the water in bran is a saving of flour. Stale bread may be refreshed by placing it for an hour in a cool oven. Bread may be raised with many sub- stitutes for yeast. The carbonate of soda is now extensively used in small family bakings for flat cakes, or what in Scotland are called scones. The only art is to apportion the alkali and acid, the soda and the buttermilk, or whatever is used, so as to proportion the degree of acidity to the alka-