178 CHAP. VII.—FISH. 135. Haddocks Baked. A plain good Family Dish, Clean and season three or four haddocks, place them neatly on a flat dish, with a border of paste or mashed potatoes neatly marked. Glaze with an egg, and place bits of butter here and there over the fish, and a piece inside of each. Garnish with potato-balls ragout^ and bake for a half-hour. Pour a little melted butter and catsup over the dish, as in baking fish get dry. This dish may be made much finer by adopting receipt No. 149. Bake a large had- dock as salmon. No. 113. 136. To Fry Haddocks, Soles, Trout, Perch, Tench, Whitings, Flounders, Herrings, etc.* Clean and skin the haddocks or whitings. If the had- docks are too large, cut them into two or three pieces,—or split them, or slit the backs. The bone should be cut out, particularly in large fish; or they may be dressed in fillets, now the fashionable way : fillets are made by cutting the fish neatly off the back-bone in oblong slices : when to be boiled or dressed d la Francaise, skin the fish—two soles for example—make a deep incision down the back-bone on each side, and divide each side into four fillets; but leave the fish on the bone till boiled and drained, by which means the fillets will be more easily detached smooth and un- broken. When the fish are to be fried, rub them with flour, and, if to be higher dressed, rub off the flour, and with a paste-brush brush them over with beat egg; strew finely- grated crumbs over them, and fry in a deep pan in plenty of,clarified dripping or lard (oil is still better), heated to such a degree that it may neither scorch the fish nor yet stew them : when a thick smoke rises they are considered ready. Turn and lift them carefully, and keep them hot by the fire, on a reversed sieve and soft paper, to absorb the * It is not easy to know the delicate whiting, at all times, from the coarse codling: — the codling has a beard—the whiting is silvery smooth. Flounders differ much in quality; there is a coarse kind of flounder, with bright scarlet star-like spots, which in reality looks better than the sober- coated gray-hack^ though the last is often not inferior to brill. The colour is a surer test than the thickness or firmness of the fish. Haddocks are in season from Whitsuntide to Christmas. Herrings are never long out of season, though the quality falls off at times.