JAM AND MARMALADE. 493 weight of pounded lump-sugar and picked fruit; strew the sugar over the fruit in the preserving-pan, and put a little water into it. Let it soak; then boil and skim it; lift a little of the juice and fruit when the fruit has boiled for about twelve minutes, and set it to cool on a plate. If the juice runs off, the jam must be boiled longer; if it jellies, though slightly, it is enough. This is a test for all jellies.— Ohs, To get rid of some of the seeds of the hairy red goose- berry, take up the syrup, as it boils, with a gravy-spoon, and run it back through a small sieve into the pan. Another:— 973^. The EtUnck-Jam.—Take rather under-ripe white or sulphur-coloured gooseberries ; top and tail them ; make the jam as above, and flavour with fresh lemon-peel, finely grated, and lemon-juice to taste. This is a jam for tarts and pud- dings, little inferior to apricot-jam. Our rationale of under- ripe fruit for jams is, that the skins and seeds are more delicate than when the fruit has fully ripened. 974. Apricot and Plum Jam or Marmalade. — Stone and skin the fruit; scald it with a little vfater in an earthenware or stone vessel; rub it through a coarse sieve, or mash it in a bowl. Take equal weight of pulp and pounded loaf-sugar, and boil the jam for fifteen minutes, stirring and skimming it. The bruised kernels of the fruit, or a few bitter almonds, blanched and bruised, may be put in to flavour the jam. Peachy Nectarine J Greengage^ and Quince jam, for puddings and tarts, are made in the same manner.—Ohs. Jams should be quickly boiled to retain a good colour, and care must be taken, by stirring, that the thicker sorts do not stick to the pan, which should always be placed aslant, or on a trivet.— See No. 988. 975. Scotch Orange-Chip Marmalade.—Take equal weight of fine loaf-sugar and Seville oranges. Wipe and grate the oranges, but not too much. [The outer grate boiled up with sugar will make an excellent conserve for common rice or hatter puddings.'] Cut the oranges the cross way, and squeeze out the juice through a small sieve. Scrape off the white from the inner skins, and pick from them the seeds and films. Boil the skins till quite tender, changing the water to take off part of the bitter. When cool, again scrape the coarse, white, and filmy part from the skins, and, truss- ing three or four skins together for despatch, cut them into