216 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. Mushrooms are safest when pickled or made into catsup, because they are then used in smaller quantities, and their pernicious properties are corrected by the acids and spices employed to preserve them. When good, they approach nearer to animal substances than any plant whatever, both in their texture and flavour, and in the gravy with which they abound. Skilful cooks have been known to impose a ragout of mushrooms for a meat ragout, even on practised epicures ; nor do we know any one flavouring ingredient that the cook could less spare than mushroom-catsup, when genuine. We by no means, therefore, wish to proscribe this delicacy, but to caution our readers not merely against mushrooms of suspi- cious quality, but also against consuming many at once, however temptingly they may be dressed. 214. To Stew or Ragout Mushrooms in White or Brown Sauce. Gather the largest button-mushrooms, or the smallest flaps. Trim away all that is mouldy or spoiled, rub with flannel, wash lightly, drain; dry in the folds of a towel, and when quite dry, for every half-pint have prepared an ounce of butter slightly browned. Place the mushrooms in this for five minutes, cooking them equally by tossing in the saucepan. Season with salt, mace, and cayenne. Another way.—Stew them in their own gravy, in a silver or earthen vessel, with a very small quantity of water, only to prevent burning. When nearly done put in a large spoonful of sweet cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Lemon-juice is employed to whiten them. The French thicken this ragout with beat yolks of eggs, and this is good practice.—Mushrooms are stewed brown in good brown gravy thickened and seasoned as above, with the addition of a little nutmeg. A piece of ing fresh. The Eomans, who were delicate in their eating, prepared their mushrooms at table with an amber or silver knife. The following test of the qualities of mushrooms is given, though we do not vouch for its accuracy :—"Boil a peeled onion with the mushrooms; if it remain white, they are safe ; if it become black or livid, there are bad ones among them." It is said, if the water in which mushrooms are steeped, or the broken parts of them, be poured upon an old bed, innumerable young ones will spring up. The mushrooms raised in beds are sometimes of unwholesome kinds, as well as the wild ones. N.B.—No sort of mush- room imll poison a Russian.—P. S. T.