VINEGARS. 263 Vinegars.—Infuse a hundred red chilies, fresli gathered^ in a quart of the best white-wine vinegar for ten days or more, shaking the bottle occasionally. A half-ounce of genuine cayenne will answer the same purpose. This makes an ex- cellent and cheap addition to plain melted butter for fish- sauce, etc., and may be made of any strength. It is a safe and convenient mode of using cayenne in many dishes. 347. Eschalot-Vinegar. — Clean, peel, and bruise four ounces of eschalots at the season when they are quite ripe without having become acrid. Steep them in a quart of the best vinegar, and strain, filter, and bottle. 348. Garlic-Vinegar.—The same as above, but use only half the quantity of chopped garlic. 349. Celery or Cress Vinegar.—Pound a half-ounce of celery-seed or cress-seed, or a half-pound of fresh celery, and steep it for ten days in a quart of vinegar boiled. Strain and bottle. It is used with salads. 350. Cucumber-Vinegar. — Pare and slice ten large cucumbers, and steep them in three pints of pickle vinegar for a week. Strain and bottle it.—Ohs. Vinegar of nearly the same flavour may be more cheaply prepared with burnet. 351. Tarragon-Vinegar.—Gather the leaves of tarragon on a dry sunny day; pick them from the stalks, and, filling up a narrow-necked stone jar, pour the best vinegar over them till the jar is full. Let them infuse for ten days, then strain and bottle the tincture. 352. Basil- Vinegar is made precisely as the above. The French add cloves and lemon-rind: we admire this addition. 353. Horseradish-Vinegar.—Pour a quart of the best and strongest vinegar, boiling hot, on three ounces of scraped horseradish, an ounce of minced eschalot, two drachms of bruised black pepper, and a drachm of cayenne. Strain it in a week, and serve it in a cruet along with cold roast-beef. It makes an excellent economical addition to the gravy of chops, steaks, etc.—See No. 270. 354. Camp-Vinegar.—Six chopped anchovies, four spoon- fuls of walnut-catsup, two of soy, and a clove of garlic chopped very fine, and two drachms of cayenne. Steep these for a fortnight in a pint of white-wine vinegar, and strain and bottle for use.—Ohs. This is more properly a sauce