223 INDIAN MEAL. important article of subsistence of whicli they are made. The Yellow meal, or what ladies in the hue of their ribbons call maize-colour^ is the richest and most nutritious. Indian meal should never be ground too fine. It will not make good bread nor cakes without a fourth or third of wheaten- flour; not very good, unless a half or three-fourths flour is used. It should not, however prepared, have much salt, which deteriorates its native flavour. It requires a hot oven, or, if baked on a girdle^ a hot clear fire. It takes longer to bake than wheaten-ilour bread; and if boiled, much longer time to boil properly than oatmeal or barley- meal. For boiling, the coarser ground it is the better, if it is long enough boiled. It is enough that it is husked. For hominy (a good substitute for rice), the corn is simply hulled or cracked at the mill^ and any inevitable meal is afterwards sifted out, or the skins are got rid of by pounding the corn in a mortar and sifting it,—a tedious process. Indian corn, roughly ground, may be used for forcemeat instead of bread- crumbs; or as oatmeal in our receipt for dressing fresh herrings. It makes tolerable gruel. Dinner Preparations of Indian Meal. 229. Hominy or crushed Indian Corn.—Bake half a pound of crushed corn in three pints of water and a salt-spoonful of salt. If it thicken too much, add more water, and stir up. It becomes of the consistence of rice-pudding. This will turn out of a shape if wished. 230. Another tt?<2?/.—Make a pudding of Indian meal, exactly as oatmeal porridge or stirabout is made over all Scotland and Ireland ; but boil much longer. Put in the meal very gradually, and stir briskly between each handful, as well as when dropping in the meal. The old-fashioned concave yetlin porridge-pot is best, as there is less risk of the pudding sticking to the bottom. It cannot be boiled too long, nor made too smoothly: and with care, and a good stout porridge-stick J this is easily done. Have ready a buttered basin or shape; pour the pudding into it, and it will, in a few minutes, be fit to turn out, still hot; or serve without turning out. Salt may be added at table. The above dishes may be made of milk instead of water. More liquid will often need to be added during the cooking, as the meal swells.