470 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. —There are various ways of procuring ice ; tlie cheajjest is to buy it of Nature's making, and to have the necessary apparatus for preserving it. Break the ice in a proper ice- bucket,, and strew a handful of salt amongst it. Rub it from the sides occasionally. Place your mould in the ice- pot, which set amidst the ice, but take care that the cream or jelly be quite cold, else it will melt the ice instead of being frozen itself. Ice-tubs are often not of sufficient di- ameter, to admit a large enough body of surrounding ice. They are quite well below and above, but have not enough of space for ice all around. We need give no farther direc- tions, as those who purchase an apparatus are taught the use of it. Let the cream or jelly remain on the ice till wanted. Then dip in hot water, or rub a towel dipt in hot water round the mould to detach it. Lay the dish over the mould, and turn carefully. Ois. Several ices, if left, by the addi- tion of rum or brandy, or liqueurs, make agreeable beverages, and so will the thick part left in running jellies through the jelly-bag.—^See Punch d la Eomaine, No. 1089. 886. Italian Cream,—Take two parts of sweet cream and one of milk, about a quart in all. Boil this, and infuse in it fine sugar enough to sweeten sufficiently, which is the only rule in using sugar^ and the thin rind of a lemon, or two if small. When flavoured, add the beat yolks of eight eggs, and beat the whole well. Set it on the fire to thicken; stirring constantly, and this done, put in a little melted isinglass, about a half-ounce (more afterwards, if necessary): whip well; strain through a lawn-sieve, and try a little in a cup before filling the mould. Put it on the ice. 887. Italian Cream^ another way,—Whisk up a pint, or rather more, of the richest cream, the yellow rind of a lemon rubbed off on sugar, the juice of the lemon, and enough fine sifted sugar to sweeten the cream to taste. Put to this, when well whisked, an ounce of isinglass dissolved and strained. Beat these together well, and season with noyeau, or cura^oa, if liked. Fill the shape, and when freezed, turn out and garnish according to fancy. — Ohs, This, with little variation, is the preparation called also Italian Cheese. Italian creams are in reality Lemon creams. They may be made as whipt creams, and the dish garnished with macaroons. See No. 875.