CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 560 reasonably be expected to be astir, the Essence is valuable; but if coffee is prepared over-night, let it be of triple strength, and be reduced by water or milk. There is a tin vessel now in use fitted with a strainer and funnel, by which a very fair essence is obtained ; or rather a very strong tincture by filtration; which will keep for a week or more, and with the addition of boiling water or milk is quickly ready. Though not equal to fresh coffee, we have, in the country or on a journey, found a bottle of it very useful. Some modern amateurs in coffee like the cream (rich and thick) a little sourish, and beat up with the sugar in the cup to keep it from curdling, before the hot coffee is poured in. To those whom habit has brought to relish the peculiar flavour of the Essence, it will give somewhat of that taste. A soupqon of chicory is an improvement to coffee. It is its excess that gives rise to complaints. We have tried the home manufacture once and again, but, after all, find no coffee equal to that prepared systematically, in large quan- tities, by those great dealers who have a coffee reputation to maintain.—Ohs. By attending to the above simple receipt, if the coffee-powder is good, no isinglass, whites of eggs, etc., will be required to clear it. The bad quality of English coffee had become a sort of national reproach, but we are improving. Its capital defect is a want of material, or that material having lain too long in powder; for the berry improves with age. It is a good method to serve coffee like tea, permitting the drinkers to help themselves to hot cream or milk, and sugar. Good cream is essential to good English coffee. 1139. Cafe d la Creme,—Make very strong, clear coffee. Add boiled cream to it, and beat them together, if not very hot. It is always proper to boil the milk or cream for coffee before adding it. 1140. Coffee-Milk.—Make coffee according to the strength you want it; add boiled new milk. This is the French Cafe au laitj the favourite breakfast beverage of France. 1141. Cafe Noir.—The after-dinner small cup of France ; and now often served in English drawing-rooms, after dinner, and followed by a small glass of some delicious liqueur,— which a worthy lady in one of Mrs TroUope's novels takes solely for love of ^'the flavour,"—is made as strong as