CREAMS. 473 add a pint of sweet milk, and sweeten; put to this the beat yolk of two eggs, a bit of lemon-rind, and a glass of wine. Stir over the fire, but take care it does not curdle. Serve in glass-cups, with nutmeg grated over, and bits of toast or small light biscuits along with it. Creams or Blancmanges of Preserved or Fresh Fruits. 897. Raspberry or Strawberry Cream^ not iced,—Mash the ripe fruit, and boil down the strained juice with fine sugar. Have a strong whip prepared of sweetened cream. With what remains of the cream, mix the beat yolks of eggs, three to the pint when the juice is added ; cook this like custard, and, when cold, mix in the fruit-syrup, and serve the whip over it. — Obs, This will make equally well of preserved jellies or jams, first freeing the latter of seeds and skins by rubbing through a sieve. Or it may be made in a shape, by mixing an ounce or more of melted isinglass with a quart of cream, straining, and, when cool, mixing in the fruit-syrup, and filling the mould. It is very good made of the pulp of apples, plums, or apricots, but then changes its name; and should be sharpened with lemon-juice. 898. Pine-Apple Cream.—Infuse the rind of a pine-apple in boiling cream, and proceed as for Vanilla-cream. Head No. 874.—This cream is almost always moulded and freezed. 899. Cocoa-nut Cream,—Use a strong infusion of grated cocoa-nut to flavour the cream. N.B.—Cocoa is a favourite flavouring ingredient in the Colonies for puddings, curries, and some soups and sauces. It is thought to give the laurel-leaf flavour, and has no per- nicious quality. Cocoa-nuts are now so cheap and plentiful that they have got into common use in English cookery and bakery. 900. Bohemian Creams,—These are made of strawberries or raspberries, or of mixed small red fruits, rubbed through a sieve, sweetened and acidulated with lemon-juice, mixed with about an ounce and a half of isinglass melted in a half- pint of water to every pint of fruit-juice. Have ready whipt a pint of sweetened cream, which mix thoroughly with the fruit-juice and isinglass, then fill the wet mould, and set in the ice as directed. No. 885^.—Obs, Calves'-feet-jelly is some- times substituted for isinglass in several creams.