289 OF BEEF. as minced collops, with a proportion of beef, or, which we consider the best way of dressing it, as a stew-soup or mock hare-soup thus:—Clean and cut the heart in large pieces lengthways. Put these into a stewpot with cold water and salt, and carefully skim away the blood, which will be thrown up in large quantities. Take up the parboiled pieces, and carve them into mouthfuls; return them into the strained liquor with plenty of shred onion, a shred head or two of celery, pepper, and allspice, and a dozen or more peeled potatoes, or some sliced carrots. This is a nourish- ing, well-flavoured, and economical stew-soup, as the half of a bullock's heart will be sufficient to make it.—For Steaks, Collops, etc,J see pp. 109-11; Tripe, p. 120. 406. Beef-Skirts,—These, if not broiled, make a nice small dish dressed as palates. The French braise and farce them with mushrooms or oysters: they may be served with a ragout of cucumber, or over spinage or fried toasts.—See Nos. 395, 621. 407. Beef-Liver may be used when sound, and is constantly used on the Continent, either in a stew-soup with carrot and onion, or slowly cooked in butter or with bacon, as calPs liver: or as directed for Iambus liver in the Scotch mode, No. 53. 408. Beef-Udder may be boiled, sliced, and served with tomata or onion sauce : udder is also salted for two days, tacked to a tongue, and they are boiled together. Salted udder is eaten sliced cold with oil and vinegar. It should be very slowly simmered. 409. Spiced or Hunter's Beef—Take the bone from a small round and salt it, as directed for a rump of beef. No. 1188, using grated nutmeg, half an ounce, and the same weight of pounded cloves. When to be dressed, wash with a sponge, bind it tightly up, and put it into a tin or earthen- ware pan that will just hold it, with a pint of melted butter or gravy, and a little butter on the top; cover the pan with several folds of buttered paper, or a close-fitting lid. Bake in a slow oven for four hours.—The hole whence the bone is taken may be stuffed with sweet herbs and minced udder. The gravy in the pan, after the beef is baked, will be almost equal to ham-sauce for strength and flavour; and is N