DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 47 easily carved. Modern carvers cut diagonally as often as this is practicable, as it saves the joint, improves the grain, and gives a better distribution of fat and lean. In carving game or poultry for a large party, where many look for a share of the same delicacy, what is called " making wings" must be avoided; the first helpings should be cut the long way, and not made too large. Pour the sauce beside the meat or vegetables, not over them. One ladle of soup is a helping. Whatever accident occurs, preserve your self- possession. Turhot—The thick part is the best : ih^ fins are fancied. Make a cross-cut in the thickest part down to the bone, then make lines from the centre to the fins, and take out slices with a fish-slice, helping part of the thick of the fins with each slice, along with the appropriate sauce; but sauces are best handed round. Salmon is easily carved, whether crimped in slices, or boiled whole. This fish is served on a napkin; a slice of the thick, cut so as to preserve the beauty of the flakes, and a smaller one of the thin, are given with the appropriate sauces; and a slice of lemon or cucumber is to be helped, if not objected to. Fried Fish.—The thick part is reckoned the best. The fish are, according to size, to be either raised from the bone, or cut quite through. The choice is—Shoulders or tail?" Neither iron nor steel should ever touch fish. Sirloin of Beef—This favourite joint is all prime. The fillet, or English side, as it is called in Scotland, is preferred by many. The Sirloin may therefore be turned over on the dish, or be made to rest on the chine-bone, and slices of tlie tender-loin, cut crossways, may be sufiicient for the party, and the joint be left to present cold, apparently un- touched. Many, however, prefer the upper part of the joint; in which case the carver should, with a very sharp knife, make an incision along the chine-bone as far as he thinks slices may be required; then, cutting off the out- side slice next himself, he may proceed to help thin slices, cutting from the chine-bone towards the end of the ribs, serving with each part of the soft fat, delicately cut, gravy, and scraped horse-radish. Some at once carve out slices