578 CHAP. III. CUEING MEAT, HAMS, ETC. yard from the fire, letting them remain there about half-a- day. Bruise them well with a roller, then put them into a pot, and press them well down. Put on them in the pro- portion of eight drops of spirit of nitre, and as much salt- petre as will lie upon a sixpence, to every pound of spawn; cover them with a piece of writing-paper, upon which lay a coating of hog's lard, as cold as it will spread; then tie over all a piece of dressed sheep's-skin, and keep in a warm place summer and winter.'' This receipt was got from Easton, hairdresser, Hawick, and one of the best fishers in the South of Scotland, who prepared and sold salmon-roe at a high price. It seems taken from the Russian receipt for making moist caviare^ which is largely exported to Italy, Germany, and other countries, and esteemed a great luxury. Caviare is made of the roe of the sturgeon, the beluga, the sterlet, and other large fish found in the Caspian, and also about the Wolga and Ural. It is of two kinds—moist and dry. The best is thus prepared, and the receipt may be equally applicable to the roe of salmon, cod, and other large fish :—The roes (quite fresh) are cleared of all fibres, and steeped in brine till the grains soften; it is then hung up in quantities of about eighteen pounds, in bags, shaped like jelly-bags, to drain; when drained, fresh brine is poured in, and it is purified by the second draining. The roes are then dried, by wringing the bags till all the moisture is expressed ; it hangs in the bags for twelve hours, and is then trod down in quantities in tubs, by a labourer in leathern stockings. The fresher the roe, and the less salt used to cure it, it is esteemed the better. In cold weather no salt is used, but then it does not keep long. 1190. To Salt a Mart or whole Bulloch.—The following approved receipt has been communicated to us for salting meat for family use, in country families far from markets, where a winter-store, or mart^ is still annually cured :— Take as much spring water as you think will cover the pieces of meat, and, with bay-salt, make of this water a pickle so strong as to float a potato. Stir till the ingre- dients are dissolved; and afterwards boil the pickle till all the scum is thrown off. "When quite cold, pour it over the cut meat in the salting-tub or heef-stand.—Ohs. The meat (and all meat or vegetables salted) must be wholly and