FISH.—FORCEMEAT IN GENERAL. 383 in England, are beginning to dress salmon at least—au na- turel. We must again express admiration of their ways of dressing cold fish, au gratin^ d la creme^ d^ancJwis, and so forth, but doubt of their excessive meddling with fresh fish. We would except some of their dishes of fresh cod, of which we like the cahillaud d la Hollandaise and d la Juive^ made thus. Stew four spoonfuls of chopped onions in two of salad-oil. Add a half-pound of melted butter, two spoon- fuls of Harvey's sauce, two of essence of anchovies, and two of white vinegar. In this prepared sauce, stew two large slices of cod. Give them a quick boil up, and simmer for twenty-five minutes. Dish the slices. Keep them hot, and with a little sugar boil down the sauce and pour it over the fish. Garnish with fried slices of onion, and quenelles of cod's liver; an addition better omitted. M. Soyer has a receipt nearly the same as this, for had- docks, which he christens d la Walter Scott. 690. Morue d la Bonne Femme, Salt Cod in a Plain Way, —Cook the salt fish as directed at No. 161. Have some boiled potatoes in the shape of corks, cut these in slices about the size of a shilling, and warm them with the fish in melted butter. 691. Turhot-Roe^ a small pretty dish—Handle so as not to mangle the roe; blanch it, slice and finish in the oven, and serve as a ragout, or as a white fricassee. Garnish with slices of lemon.—Ohs. The French curry all sorts of fish and shell-fish in the English way. French Forcemeat in General. 692. Quenelles and Boudins,—The French claim suprem- acy over the v/hole civilized world in the art of preparing farces. Without presuming to question their superiority, it is possible for a cook of ordinary abilities and industry to attain a competent knowledge of this high mystery, with- out serving a regular apprenticeship at the French stove, provided she give respectful attention to the manner in which foreign artists proceed. The French have reduced the art of preparing forcemeat to fixed principles. As con- stituents, they have the godiveau, the panade, the farce of fowl, the gratinj all cut and dry ; and these they laboriously compound, with a degree of patience which goes far to