233 TO MELT BUTTER, ETC. Frencli Sauce Uanche. Some French cooks add a very little vinegar and nutmeg.—Another way. Make a thick batter of flour* with a wineglassful of water, let it heat, add six ounces of butter broken. Stir this quickly till it comes to the boiling point.—Ohs. A spoonful of catsup, and a little vinegar, flavoured or plain, or anchovy-liquor, converts this, extempore J into a good fish-sauce;—a teaspoonful of mustard, wliere suitable, will heighten the relish, or a little pepper with salt. Butter, from its bad quality, will sometimes run to oil in spite of the most vigilant cook. In this case, it is the prac- tice to put a little cold water to it, and to pour it rapidly backwards and forwards from the saucepan into a basin, which will partially restore it; but below we give a better way. Melted butter to be mixed with flavoured vinegars, catsups, and thin essences, should be made very thick, and melted with water and flour only, as milk is apt to coagulate ; and the vinegars, capers, pickles, etc., must be carefully stirred in, just before the sauce is served, to prevent it from curdling. Butter, on the contrary, into which minced egg, or herbs, which thicken, are to be stirred, should be rather thin when melted, as the other ingredients will thicken the sauce. To Recover Butter run to Oil.—Add a little salt of tartar, kept in a close-stopped vial for this purpose, to the oiled butter first poured off from the milky sediment. Shake them up together, and the desired creamy appearance will be restored, exactly as in making a liniment of hartshorn and oil.—To clarify Butter^ see No. 44.-1- 248. Oiled Butter.—Set the saucepan over a slow fire, or at the side of it, and it will oil of itself. Let it settle, and pour it from any milky sediment. 249. To Brown or Burn Butter^ i. e. Black Butter.—Put a large piece of butter into a small frying-pan, and toss it * Genuine arrow-root is in all cases to be preferred to flour for thicken- ing delicate dishes. f Butter is frequently spoiled by ignorance or carelessness. The simple chemical process of making the creamy compound called " volatile lini- ment," commonly used in cases of sore throat, is familiar to most people. It is merely adding the necessary quantity of hartshorn to sweet oil By a similar process oiled butter may be recovered as directed above, where the appearance of the sauce is a matter of more importance than its qualities.