DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 56 back-bone to h. These slices are considered prime, and must be served first. The legs, as next best, are to be cut in the circular line c h a—which if the animal be young, will not be difficult—and divided into proper helping free of bones. The shoulders are then taken off in the circular line efg. Now divide the body or back into three, or if a large hare, four pieces, going right through the spine at a joint. An old hare should, when it is practicable, have the backbone cut out before roasting. If the hare is old and tough, the carver should turn the dish towards himself and cut off the legs, entering his knife about two inches below the back-bone, trying to hit the haunch-joint, and jerking it open as in carving a goose. If the whole hare is wanted, the head must be cut off and placed on a plate, the upper part divided from the under jaw, and then cut exactly down the middle. The slices may be either helped as carved, which we con- sider the best way, or left till the whole process is finished. They are helped with stuffing and gravy. During the pro- cess, the carver should frequently moisten the dry roast, and the parts cut off, with the hot gravy in the dish. The ears and hrain are fancied ; so that some care must be taken, by papering, to have the ears crisp; and before roasting they should be singed inside with a hot poker or Italian iron-heater. No bone should be given with hare. Babbits are carved like hare; only being much smaller, the head is not divided, and the back is cut into fewer pieces. The shoulders of rabbits are considered the tid-bits. The carver is permitted to turn every dish towards him- self, when more convenient, and he generally cuts towards himself. From a dish presented in its customary position he cuts from left to right. Fowls and Turkeys, boned and stuffed with forcemeat, are cut in slices across like tongue. Things that are larded must be cut the crossway of the lardons to look well. Every graceful carver will try to cover the unsightly gashes he must sometimes make—in fish particularly—by throwing the parsley, or other garnish, over the wreck. In ordinary circumstances, garnishing the ledges of dishes is rather losing ground. At highly dressed dinners, garnished by thoroughbred professors, all sorts of ornament are ex- pected. For public breakfasts, collations, and suppers, gar- nishings of coloured jellies, and of sauces iced and moulded