86 CHAP. III. ROASTING. butter, and serve with venison-sauce.—Ols, The fillet of the sirloin, larded, marinaded, and roasted, makes a handsome French dish, served with tomata-sauce, or cucumber-sauce. 19. To Roast a Leg, Haunch, or Saddle of Mutton. (See French Cookery oj Mutton^ uliich is well worth attention.) Mutton intended to be roasted may be kept longer than mutton for boiling, as the colour is of less importance. Cut out the pipe that runs along the back-bone, which taints so early; daily wipe off the mustiness that gathers on the sur- face, and in the folds of the meat, and below the flap. This and every other piece of meat may be lightly dusted with flour or with pepper, which, by excluding the external air and keeping off flies, helps to preserve the meat, and can be taken off in the washing previous to roasting. A leg^ a chine^ a saddle^ a loin^ a breast^ a shoulder^ and the haunch or the gigot^ are the roasting pieces of mutton. Joint the roast well, whatever be the piece. Most of the loose fat should be cut from the loin, which may be stuffed, and should be papered at first, to preserve the kidney-fat. A modern refinement is to put laver in the dripping-pan, which, in basting, imparts a high gout: or a large saddle may be served over a pound and a half of laver^ stewed in brown sauce with catsup and seasonings. This roast requires a rather quick fire to concentrate its juices. Onion-sauce^ cucuwher-sauce^ and currant-jelly^ are ordered in most Cookery Books to be served with roast mutton; but a juicy leg of mutton requires little sauce save its own gravy, to which the French add a squeeze of lemon, and pepper. A saddle is roasted as above. A double saddle has been introduced at the Reform Club, which is well adapted for large parties. It consists of the entire middle of the four quarters, leaving more of the shoulder than in a shoulder saddle, and more of the gigot than in the loin saddle. It is trimmed by the butcher. Some French cooks serve roast mutton on French beans stewed in good stock, with a couple of onions cut in dice and fried. The crowbeiry or red bilberry, and even the berry of the moun- tain-ash, as a thick jam, makes a rustic sauce for venison or mountain mutton. Some modern gourmands consider sweet jellies eaten with animal food as not merely among the vul-