OF DRESSED BEEF. 2dS rubbed down as for batter-pudding. Skim all the fat from it; let it settle, and strain it, and boil it up again; putting to it, as additional seasonings, at discretion, any one of the following things:—Walnut or mushroom catsup, or onion- pickle liquor, with a few cut pickles ; a little tarragon- vinegar, or some shred parsley, made-mustard, capers, etc., etc.; in brief, any flavouring ingredient which is agreeable to the taste of the eater, and easily procured. While this sauce is hot, put in the cut meat, and let it soak and slowly warm quite through, without boiling: Or the sauce may be poured over the meat in the hash-dish, and that set in a hot- water bath, a cool oven, or a vessel of boiling water, till the hash is hot through. Place toasted sippets round the dish. A curry-hash of beef or mutton is generally liked. Fry a few large onions; add the hashed meat and curry seasonings. Garlic may be used if liked.—Ohs. The varieties of Hashes are endless; but the above is conceived the best mode of making this useful family-dish. Hashes or minces of dressed veal or poultry require white sauce, a seasoning of lemon- peel, and the juice of lemon; or the flavour of tarragon given by vinegar, which makes a French flavoured hash. A curry'hash of veal or fowls answers very well with plenty of small onions par-roasted, and then stewed whole in the hash-sauce. If meat comes back from the table which you know must be hashed next day, carve it before it get cool; it will then soak in the gravy which lies in the dish, and be far more rich than if allowed to remain dry and uncut till next day. This should be particularly attended to in hashes of venison, hare, or mutton.—See No. 534. 422. An English Stew of Cold Roast Beef Mutton^ or Lamb, —Cut the meat in small and rather thin slices, season them highly with pepper and salt, and dip each lightly in bread- crumbs, moistened in gravy or melted butter. Dress them neatly on a dish, and lay over them a thin layer of cut pickles, and moisten the whole with a glassful of pickle- vinegar, and the preserved gravy of the roast-meat: heat in a Dutch oven, and garnish with fried sippets, or potato-balls. Place the dish dressed in another with a napkin. This we consider one of the best methods of re-dressing cold roast meat. 423. Cold Beef Scalloped^ or Saunders,—Mince the meat