502 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES^ ETC. 10012. Tofee and Hardbake.—For To fee,—Boil a pound of pounded sugar in eight ounces of melted butter, in a very small preserving-pan: boil for ten minutes, and add a fla- vouring of lemon or ginger. Boil for a few minutes more, stirring constantly, and try the tofee, by dropping a particle in cold water. If it get instantly crisp and crack between the teeth, pour it out on slabs or flat dishes rubbed with oil or butter. Tofee may have spermaceti put to it instead of part of the butter. Hardbake contains no butter: it is pre- pared as sugar for caramels. 1002. Rose Souffle Cakes.—Pick a handful of rose-leaves, and give them a boil in a syrup made of a pound of sugar. Have ready an icing made of two ounces of sugar, and the white of an egg well beat up and tinged with liquid cochi- neal. Stir a spoonful of this into the syrup till it rises; fill small moulds, and bake.—Obs. Confectioners use carmine or lake-powder, and so have Rose souffle cakes in full bloom all the year round. These colouring matters are prepared by the chemists, who also sell flavouring essences, which ought to be used with great caution, particularly when of the almond or laurel kinds. 1003. To make Devices and Ornaments in Sugar.—Make a paste of the finest loaf-sugar and gum-tragacanth steeped in rose-water, or any flavoured water, and mould and colour the ornaments as best suits the purpose for which they are intended; as rose with cochineal, yellow with safli-on, green with spinage-juice. 1004. Nougat in the French Style.—Blanch a half-pound of sweet almonds and six bitter ones. Peel and cut them into dice. Dry them thoroughly before the fire or in an oven, but do not let them brown much. Put a half-pound of fine sifted sugar into a small preserving-pan over a very slow fire, without a drop of water. When it is melted, throw in the cut almonds quite dry. Stir and turn out the paste, as it will now be, on a mould rubbed with oil. It must be quickly worked, as it will harden. It may be made in a variety of forms. If flat, press it quickly with an oiled rolling-pin, and cut it up in oblong slips. Cinna- mon or small white nonpareil comfits may be strewed over the surface while hot.—N.B. Nougats^ and the Devices of No. 1003, should in general be left to the confectioner.