200 CHAP. VII. FISH. stew, it may have a little catsup, bread-crumbs, and minced parsley added to it. Serve in a hot hash-dish on toasted sippets. Lemon-peel and chopped parsley will be an improvement. Mussels, cockles, and ClamSj whether as soup, stew, or sauce, may be dressed in the same way. 181. To Serve Oysters in the Shell. Let the opener stand behind the eater's chair, who should make quick and clean conveyance. If not so placed, wash, brush, and open and beard the oysters, and arrange them in rows on a tray; or if at a loss for room, heap the shells in piles: the fresher from the sea, and the more recently opened, the better. The French serve lemon-juice with raw oysters; we serve this and also vinegar, pepper, and toasted crusts. 182. To Pickle Oysters, Mussels, and Cockles. Scald, beard and wash large fat native oysters in their own liquor. Strain it, and to every pint put a glass of white wine, mace, nutmeg, a good many white peppercorns, and a little salt, if necessary. Simmer the oysters for four or five minutes; but never let them boil. Put them in glass or stone jars. Put vinegar, in the proportion of a glass to the pint, to the liquor, and boil it up. Skim this pickle and pour it over the oysters; and when cold, cork and tie them close up with bladder. The pickle-liquor may be boiled up occasionally, suffered to cool, and poured again over them, which will tend to preserve the oysters: a spoonful of it will be a great addition to any plain hash or common ragout. Add horseradish, parsley, and a little thyme, if you like. — N.B. Mussels and cockles in the same manner: but having washed well, place them on the fire that the shells may open,—then pick them out and proceed as above, using pepper and a little vinegar only. Neither mussels nor cockles should be kept long. 183. To Fry Oysters to Garnish Fish, and Oyster-Fritter?. Simmer them in their own strained liquor for three minutes; drain them; take ofi" the beards, and, dipping in a"* batter of egg, flour, and white pepper, or No. 882, fry them in lard or butter of a golden brown. The above is the same