224 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. To Fry Cold Mush or Pudding.—Cut it out in slices about an inch thick, and fry in lard, beef-dripping, or melted suet. It is excellent this way, either alone or with meat. 231. Hominy or Hulled Corn^ as in the Western States of America.—When the cracked corn is prepared as above directed, put it in a large pot of cold water, and boil for six or eight hours, frequently adding boiling water and stirring lest the hominy become black or burn. It is usually pre- pared twice a-week, and kept cold; and if for dinner, sliced and fried as No. 230; or if for breakfast, heated up by baking in a well-buttered baking dish, and either so served or turned over.—For Puddings and Cakes of Indian Meal, see the Index and No. 884^. Maize Starch, under various names, is an admirable sub- stitute for arrow-root and all farinas and seeds used for sweet-dishes. 231.^ Boiled and Roasted Chestnuts, Substitutes for Potatoes. —Make an incision in the outer skin of each chestnut: wash and boil them in salt and water as potatoes: probe with a packing-needle, to try when they are boiled enough, and drain; rub them in a kitchen towel, and serve quickly in a napkin: prepared as above they may be baked, or roasted in a coffee-bean roaster as in the chestnut countries, but in both ways must be first parboiled. Chestnuts thus prepared make a nice dish, if skinned, browned, and stewed in good beef gravy relished with a slice of ham, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Thicken this if needful, and pour it hot over the chestnuts. 232. Salads. Salad herbs are cooling and refreshing. They correct the putrescent tendency of animal food. Vegetable salads are at any rate a harmless luxury; and though they afford little nourishment of themselves, they make a pleasant addition to other aliments, and a graceful appearance on the dinner- table. Lettuce, of the different sorts, or salad, as it is often called, is the principal ingredient in these vegetable messes, and Endive the most beautiful. Lettuce should be blanched by the gardener, and eaten young; when old, its juices become acrimonious. Lettuce possesses soporific qualities, and is therefore recommended to bad sleepers as a supper- article. Radishes, when young, are juicy and cooling, but