127 PLAIN STOCK-BROTH. 59. Plain Stock-Broth, The Basis of many Soups and Sauces. In large families, or if the cook is to have a large dinner, let her, on the previous day, prepare the Stock-broth.—To every pound of fresh juicy heef, or a shin broken, allow a quart, or, if wanted very strong, a third less of soft water, and to this add any fresh trimmings of lean mutton, veal, poultry, or game, which the larder affords. An old fowl, a rabbit, or a knuckle of veal, are excellent additions, and with these less meat will serve,—a good fresh bone, sawed^ is a cheap help to any stock-pot. When the broth is ren- dered pellucid by boiling, skimming, and clearing, as directed in the observations on boiling, put to it an ounce of salt, the same of black peppercorns, and a half-ounce of pimento corns, two carrots, two turnips, four large onions in their skins, four cloves, some good leeks, if you like the flavour, a fagot of herbs, and a head or two of celery. There are, however, some purposes for which stock is wanted, to which tliis quantity and kind of vegetables may be unsuitable ; and this is left to the judgment of the cook. Half the quantity specified will do for one large tureen. Let the soup boil for from four to six hours, according to the quan- tity. If left too long on the fire, thi3 flavour of the vege- tables will deteriorate, the colour will spoil, and the broth become ropy. When a good soup merely is wanted, with- out regard to the meat or vegetables, boil quickly with the lid aslant to reduce. When done, let it settle, skim off the fat (which will be useful for moistening braises, enriching vegetables, etc.), pour it from the sediment; strain it through a tammy, and set by for use. Obs. As our object is to unite judicious economy with good cookery, it is proper to mention that each of the material ingredients of the stock- pot may be turned to good account. The meat may be put on early on the day of the dinner, and may be kept hot to serve at the servants' table, while it affords stock for the soups, sauces, and braises. Or it may be served at a family d inner as beef gaimi de choux ; or gar)ii de racines, or as f^ain houilli. as directed for that dish, by taking it up when just enough done, and keeping hot in a stew-pan, with a few ladlefuls of the top of the broth, to serve as a sauce. If a fowl is boiled in the stock-pot, let it be trussed before boiling, and it may be served with rice, or any suitable sauce, or om gros set; so may a knuckle of veal, a rabbit with onions, or a brace of partridges with a proper sauce. In large private establishments, where broth for soups and sauces is constantly required, the articles, of which stock is best formed, may be served at the different