452 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. milk, with three ounces of pounded sugar, the grate and iuice of two lemons, and a large glassful of brandy or rum, mixed gradually that tlie milk may not curdle. Pour the mixture over the cake in the mould. Cover and let it soak for an hour or two, and boil for one hour and a half. This pudding may be baked; or the cake may be crumbled down, and it may be thus made as a bread-pudding. If in a mould, a few bloom raisins, or small French plums, may be arranged at the bottom, so as to have a good effect when the pudding is turned out. 844. Vermicelli-Pudding,—Boil three ounces of soaked vermicelli till soft, in a pint and a half of new milk, with fine sugar to taste, a stick of cinnamon, and a bit of lemon- peel. Stir in, when cold, the beat yolks of four eggs with two of the whites, and bake the pudding in a dish with a paste-border. 845. Custard-Pudding.—Beat up the yolks and whites of from four to six, or from six to nine eggs separately. Mix the yolks with a pint and a half of rich new milk into which two spoonfuls of arrow-root or three of flour have been rubbed. Sweeten the mixture to taste, and add cinnamon and lemon grate and juice. When just ready to cook, stir in the beat whites of the eggs, and a little orange-flower- water. Boil the pudding for a half-hour, in a buttered basin, with a floured cloth tied tightly over it; or bake it for twenty minutes, taking care that it does not run in a too hot oven, before it has time to set. Grate sugar over the top, or put bits [croutons) of red currant-jelly or preserved cherries neatly round the dish. 846. Batter-Pudding.—Mix three or four ounces of flour with a little milk, and add a pint more of milk to it. Put a piece of butter the size of a small egg to this, and place it on the fire, stirring constantly till it thickens. When cold, add the beat yolks of four eggs, and a little ginger and grated lemon-peel. Boil in a buttered basin, and serve hot with a sweet sauce, or plain if with meat.—Ohs. A little orange-marmalade or conserve is a great improvement to this and to all batter-puddings; but not if served with meat. Instead of wheaten-flour, potato-flour, ground rice, or arrow- root may be used, but less of them. 847. Almond or Ratafia Pudding.—Blanch, cut down, and