483 WASSAIL-BOWL. as Malmsey Madeira, if wanted very ricli, but raisin-wine will do. Sweeten this, and pour a high-seasoned rich cus- tard over it. Strew nutmeg and grated sugar lightly over it, and ornament it with sliced blanched almonds.— This is, in fact, just a rich eating posset, or the more modem Tipsy- Cake; or, except that it is not moulded, essentially the same in ingredients, save eggs, as a Charlotte Russe or Prussienne^ No. 874^. A very good wassail-bowl may be made with mild ale, well spiced or sweetened, and a plain custard made with few eggs. The wassail-bowl was an- ciently crowned with garlands and ribbons, and ushered in with carols and songs,—a custom worthy of revival. 938. Devonshire Junket—Wi^k the cow into a bowl in which a very little rennet is put. Stir it up when full; and when firm pour over it scalded cream, and strew pounded sugar and cinnamon. Sweet Dislies of Apples, etc. 939. Gooseberry-fool.—Put the picked fruit and a glass of water into a jar with a little moist sugar, and set the jar over a stove, or in boiling water, till the fruit will pulp. Press it through a colander, and mix the pulp by degrees with cream or with common plain custard. 940. Apples J General Receipt.—With taste and invention the cook may contrive an endless variety of apple-dishes. We give the general rules.—Have firm kinds, if to cut, that will look clear and white when stewed. Cut them as corks, balls, circles, or bricks, and make a marmalade with the trimmings and more apples. Sweeten to taste. Lemons or oranges, and cinnamon are the favourite seasonings; a little quince may be added to sharpen, and a little cider, or white wine to these. Bury the cut pieces in equal their weight of sugar, with lemon or orange peel, for some hours or a night, and prepare the marmalade. Stew the cut pieces, lifting them carefully as they get ready, and arranging them on the dish. If bricks^ as cross-piles; if corks^ pyramidically, circles in pyramids, as the several pieces may be. Whole apples shaped as a hedgehog and bristled with sliced almonds, is a French apple-dish. Fill the interstices, and cover all bare places with the marmalade. Glaze the whole with two whites of eggs, whipt with pounded sugar, and set in the