424 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. of larc^^ and rather more of fresh dripping or butter, in about a pint of water, and make the paste of this. Knead it strongly, and beat it well with a rolling-pin. Let it stand to cool, and then from the mass raise the pie; or cut out pieces for the top and bottom, and a long piece for the sides; cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the bot- tom piece beyond the sides, and pinching both together to make them join closely. Fill up the pie. Put on the top, and pinch it close to the sides. Small raised pies may be made by lining a tin shape with a sliding bottom with paste on the bottom and sides, and putting on a top. Practice is necessary to make a handsome raised pie.* 773. Common Paste for Savoury Pies.—To two pounds of good flour take six ounces of butter; break it down among the flour, and mix it with a couple of beat eggs and a pint of hot water. Knead it smooth, and roll out and double it three or four times. Cold paste is made as above, only use cold water. The butter is a short allowance. 774. Rich Paste of Beef~suet for Common Meat-Pies. Cut the suet in bits, and melt it in water. Strain it into fresh water, and when cold, press out the water, and pound it in a mortar with a little oil, till it come to the consistence of butter. Use this for making pie-crust, half a pound to a pound of flour.—See Clarijield Suet, No. 44. 775. Common Tart-paste and Cream-paste.—Make as No. 773, only use a little more butter, and a spoonful of sugar, if requisite. Cream-paste: use cream instead of water, and give six ounces of butter, with two of sugar, to the pound of flour. 776. Short Crust for preserved Sweets.—To a pound of the finest flour put a half-pound of fresh butter, the beat yolks of two eggs, and three ounces of fine sifted loaf-sugar. Mix this up with hot milk, knead it lightly, but smoothly, and ice the paste when ready. Cream may be used, and more butter.—Ohs. The more finely the butter is crumbled down among the flour, the shorter will the crust eat. Those who dislike sweet crust may either entirely omit or use only half the quantity of sugar. The above paste is generally em- ployed to line tart-pans. This paste may be perfumed by * Cooks also use strong pasteboard rims or moulds for fortifying the walls of raised pies. The thing must be seen. "We cannot satisfactorily describe it.