490 CHAP, v.—-ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. particles are wholly evaporated. Strong glass vessels keep preserves well, and, now that glass is so cheap, are cheaper in the end than earthenware ones.—Ohs. The great art in preserving stone-fruits is to avoid having the syrup too rich at first, which would inevitably shrivel them, particularly if they be boiled in it, or have it poured too hot over them. Of Boiling Sugars for Preserves. Confectioners reckon several degrees in preparing sugar, from simple clarified syrup up to caramel. The Saccharo- meter is as useful to the confectioner and cook as to the brewer. 960. To Clarify Sugar.—To every pound of broken sugar of the best quality take a quarter-pint of water, with the half of the white of an egg beat up in it, or less egg will do. Stir this till the sugar dissolves, and when it boils, and the scum rises strong and thick, pour in another quarter-pint of cold water to each pound. Let it boil, edging the pan forward from the stove till all the scum is thrown forward. Set it on the hearth, and when it is settled, take off the scum with a sugar-skimmer, upon a reversed sieve laid over a dish, that what syrup is in it may run clear from it. Return the syrup dropt through the sieve into the pan, and boil and skim the whole once more.—French artistes allege that the new processes of sugar-refining give an inferior quality of sugar. 961. Candied Sugar^ first degree.—Boil sugar, clarified as above, till in boiling it rises in the pan like clusters of pearls; or try between the finger and thumb if it have tenuity enough to draw out into a brittle thread. 962. Blown Sugar^ second degree.—Boil candied sugar till, on dipping the skimmer into the syrup, and blowing strongly through the holes of it, the sugar forms into bubbles. 963. Feathered Height^ third degree.—Boil sugar of the second degree for some time longer, and dip the skimmer in the pan; shake off the blown sugar, and give the skimmer a quick toss, when, if enough done, the sugar will fly off like snow-flakes or downs. 964. Crachlijig Sugar ^fourth degree.—TjoW feathered sugar till, on dipping a stick into the pan, and dipping it imme- diately in cold water, the sugar will instantly become hard.