OF VEAL. 297 meat-balls. Cream, wine, truffles, etc., are all put to this dish, also catsup and an anchovy. The oysters we omit. A shoulder is boned, stuffed, and stewed as above in good gravy. 435. To Ragout a Breast of Veal—Make a little strong gravy, as above, of the scrag trimmings and bones of the breast, and with this, or a quantity of rich stock sufficient to stew the veal, the peel of a lemon, white pepper, a bay- leaf, a large carrot sliced, three onions, and a fagot of sweet herbs and parsley, stew the meat till the point of a knife will easily enter it. This, like all stews, cannot be too slowly simmered, over embers or by the fire, keeping the lid of the stewpan very close. When the veal is quite tender, skim off all the fat that floats on the gravy, which must then be strained and thickened to the degree of a thin batter, and enriched with a glassful of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Heat up this sauce. Dish the veal and pour the sauce hot over it, holding back the sediment. Forcemeat-balls may be used as a garnishing to this dish (they will be more suitable if made with a large proportion of grated tongue, sausage-meat, ham, etc.), and also slices of lemon.—Obs. Veal, whether the neck or breast, is exceed- ingly good stewed plainly in a little strong gravy. The meat may also be glazed, or it may be covered with white onion-sauce; or cut and stewed with young green pease, chopped lettuce, and young onions chopped, and served en putt, that is, in a well or space in the middle of the dish, of which meat neatly cut forms the walls. Celery also answers well with stewed veal.—See Tendons de Veau, No. 629^ N.B.—Lamb or Babbits may be dressed as above, and served, the former with cucumbers, the latter with white onion-sauce. 436. Veal-Olives.—Make as Beef-Olives ; or cut, flatten, and spread forcemeat on each slice, with seasonings. Roll up each olive tightly, and egg and crumb them, and either roast or stew them in a rich gravy. Thicken the gravy with white roux; add to it a few forcemeat-balls, and serve with oyster or mushroom sauce. 437. Veal-Cutlets.—See Nos. 48 and 445, and French Cookery, No. 629. N 2