BACON LEG OF PORK GAME. 77 wliich Essence of Ham is used. His experiment is worth trying.—French Mode. In France, hams are boiled deli- ciously, wrapped in a cloth with carrots, onions, garlic, cloves, bay-leaves, parsley, thyme, and basil. When enough done, the cloth is tied more firmly, and when cool, the ham is dressed as in No. 11, and served on a napkin. The French also roast hams, and have the Pate de Jamhon, 13. Boiled Bacon or Pork. All pork to be boiled should lie in salt at least two days previous to dressing. Pork requires more boiling than other meat. Small pork is the most delicate to boil fresh. Pork throws up a greasy scum during the whole process, which must be constantly removed. Serve with pease-pud- ding or bean-pudding, haricot beans or parsnips, boiled in the same pot.* 14. A Leg of Pork to Boil. Choose a nice, small, compact, well-filled leg. Salt it, rubbing hard, lay it in a pickle for a week; and boil and serve along with pease-pudding, boiled with it, and savoys or green cabbage. 15. To Boil Rabbits, Partridges, Pheasants, Snipes, Wild Ducks, and other Game. Boil as directed in No. 8 ; or in fresh veal or mutton- broth. For Partridges, Pheasants, etc., use the same sauces as directed for them when roasted ; garnish with crisp parsley, slices of lemon, or green pickles.—Ohs. Though game of all sorts is occasionally boiled, the Committee of the Cleikum did not patronize this mode of dressing, except for rabbits. Stewed rabbits, which must be neatly trussed, * Dr Redgill, professionally devoted to benevolence and Christian charity, made a long oration on the value of pork liquor for soup to the poor ; clmritahle soup, economical soup, dealt out in copious libations to old women, as often as very salt or very fat pork was boiled in the Doctor's kitchen. The idea was nauseous to every other member of the Committee. ToijCHWood asserted, that even Cobbett, that enthusiast for hog's flesh, disclaims porh broth. Redgill, on this hard push, brought forward his battle-horse, Dr Kitchiner, in vain,—was left in a minority of one, and the hogs got their natural perquisite. The liquor of young pork not long in salt will, however, make tolerable pease-soup, to which a strong subdu- ing £elish of celery and onion should be given. Cabbage and greens of all sorts may be boiled with advantage in pork liquor. Also bean or pease pudding, or white haricot beans.