209 TURNIPS. the dish, and scallop with a spoon; or score it in the form of diamonds or sippets; or more fashionably press it in a leaf-shaped perforated mould to drain, and turn it out. Cream, the squeeze of a lemon, and mace, or nutmeg, are added, by some cooks, or a little rich, bland gravy, if to be served under a tongue, fricandeau, or breast of lamb. Spin- age is often served with poached eggs. It is then boiled as above, pressed, beat up hot with butter and seasonings, and cut in the form of sippets, with an egg served over each:— this makes a pretty supper dish. Tender young spinage^ without any redundancy of vegetable bile in it, may be boiled in a close vessel, with no more water than what hangs about the leaves when washed; but is not so free of bitter- ness as when boiled in plenty of water. A little sugar may be added if required: the French serve fried sippets with spinage; and ihQiY Epinard en jus is excellent; for which cook as above, add a dessertspoonful of flour, and half a pint of strong jelly-gravy, garnishing with fried sippets glazed. The French also cook endive in juice, serving it as spinage with sippets, or poached eggs. 198. Turnips, ^Zam. Of turnips there are many varieties. Choose the pale yellow, small, fine-grained, juicy sorts. Pare off all that would be woody and stringy when boiled. Boil in plenty of water for from three-quarters of an hour to nearly two hours, according to the age and size. Swedish, four hours. Drain and serve them whole, or, if too large, divided, or, best of all mashed. A bit of the green top-shoot is left on early white turnips, and melted butter or white sauce poured over them. Swedish turnip-tops are delicate greens when young. If boiled in their coats, and then pared, old Swedish turnips will be more juicy. 199. To Dress Turnips, for Second Course,— A French Mode, Cut them into cubes or oblong forms, or scoop them out as balls, pears, peaches, plums, etc., with cutters, and, after boiling in salt and water with a piece of butter, sauce them with melted butter, seasoning them with nutmeg. Turnips are handy to fill up a table when other vegetables are not to