579 CURING MEAT. constantly covered with the pickle, by occasionally adding fresh supplies as it wastes, and using a sinking-board. If the pickle become turbid, and a scum gather on it, either pour it off, and boil and skim it well before returning it, when cold, to the meat, or use a fresh pickle, which may now be afforded cheaply, and is perhaps better, because purer than the original liquor boiled up. Meat preserved in this way is never disagreeably salt, and will keep for a long time. A little saltpetre boiled with the pickle will tinge the meat. If meat is rubbed with salt, and suffered to drain from the blood for a day and night, it will keep the better. If meat is not liked so salt, substitute sugar for one-third of the salt. — Ohs. Rock salt is usually called Liverpool salt in the north-west of Scotland and in Ireland, because it comes from that port. The best of all salt for preserving meat or fish is what is called bay or Lisbon salt. To it anchovies partly owe their rich mellowness. 1191. An ■excellent general Pickle for Meat^ Hams, Tongues, etc.—Take in the proportion of six ounces of salt, and four of sugar to the quart of water, and a quarter-ounce or less of saltpetre. Rub the meat with salt, let it drain for two days, and pack it, and over it pour the pickle, first boiled, skimmed, and cooled. Herbs and spices ad libitum,—Obs. Various ways of hastening the process of rendering meat fit for cooking are proposed. Some recommend burymg in the earth; others hanging the meat or poultry in a fig-tree. A high but equal temperature appears the most rational plan. Cover the meat with a thin cloth, and leave it as long as is wished for, or convenient, near the kitchen fire, or in a cold oven. If, however, the temperature be too high, the meat will be rather hardened than improved. 1192. To Salt Beef for immediate use, and to make Soup of—For this purpose we prefer the thin flank, or what are in Scotland called the nine-holes, the runner, and the brisket. Cut it, as suitable, into pieces of from three to seven pounds. Rub heartily with dried salt. Cover up the meat. Turn it over occasionally (to have it soaked in the brine), and in a week it will eat well as plain bouilli with roots, and also make a good Scotch soup. From that time to six weeks it will eat with greens, while the pot-liquor will make, or help to make, potato or pease soup.