GARLIC-SAUCE MAYONNAISE. 241 dessertspoon; give this a scald, drain and add a half-pint of good gravy or melted butter, pepper, and salt, and when done, a large spoonful of vinegar. The eschalots stewed in mutton-broth, with a little butter rolled in flour, and some vinegar, make an excellent sauce for boiled mutton. Eschalot- sauce may be made as directed in No. 251 [Parsley and Butter)^ by merely stirring a little eschalot -vinegar into melted butter, with salt; and for roast meat or poultry this is more delicate than sauce of the chopped root. Carrier- sauce for mutton is made by boiling chopped eschalots in gravy, sharpened with vinegar, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Eschalot enters largely into the composition of most of the high-flavoured compound store sauces made for sale. 265. Garlic-Sauce.—Make this with a spoonful of garlic- vinegar stirred into a half-pint of melted butter; or blanch in two waters, chop and pound in a mortar two cloves of garlic with a bit of butter, or a very little oil, and, rubbing the paste through a sieve, simmer it in the butter.* 266. Mayonnaise^ a favourite Anglo-French sauce, for serving with, or masking [i.e. pouring thick over)j cold poultry, salads, and many cold dishes.—To the yolks of two eggs carefully separated from the whites, put a little salt and white pepper, and drop by drop a few drops of vinegar; stir, rub briskly with a spoon; and next, add drop by drop a spoonful of salad-oil, stirring and rubbing diligently. When rubbed quite smooth, and of the consistence of a thick cream, add gradually three wine-glasses of vinegar, or of eschalot, cucumber, tarragon, or Chili vinegar, or part of them, whichever is best adapted to the dish the Mayonnaise is to sauce. A spoonful of veal-jelly or of demi-glaze is a great improvement. This sauce requires great care and patience, and it will often curdle in spite of all the cook can do. The gradual rubbing of the yolks is the main thing. The sauce should be prepared in a cool place, or over ice. A spoonful of cold water, added after the vinegar, will help * T^e invention of the following garlic-sauce is attributed to Michael Kelly, a musical composer of some celebrity, and possessed moreover of some skill in the "Harmonies of Meats."—"For boiled tripe, cow-heels, or calf's head, take a spoonful of garlic-vinegar and a teaspoonful of made- mustard, brown sugar, and black pepper, stir these into a half-pint of oiled butter.'—JEKYLL pronounced this beastly ! L