362 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. Glaze the top of the beef; brown it lightly with a salaman- der, and serve. Another French Mode^ or aux Oignons Glaces.—Stew the rump as above, but prepare three dozen of onions ; raise a border of mashed potatoes round the dish, and dress the onions on this, with a very small, dressed Brussels cabbage upon each onion, or a head of asparagus. Put a quart of brown-sauce into a stewpan, the glaze of the cooked onions, and four spoonfuls of tomata-sauce. Boil it quickly for five minutes; pour it over the onions; put the beef into the dish, and glaze the top of the beef, and brown with a salamander. The Brussels sprouts, very green, may either be laid alter- nately with the onions, or one above each onion. The stewed rump may also be served with Tomata-sauce^ and the dish ornamented with a very white cauliflower at each end. To Dress a Cold Stewed Rump,—Cut slices a quarter of an inch thick. Trim them neatly; soak them till heated through in a little consomme ; or glaze them, after heating through in an oven, and serve with Tomata-sauce or sauce piquant. The above Grosses Pieces are of course for large or sumptuous dinners ; but they may be cooked on a smaller scale, and the stew-liquor may form the sauce. The larding may also be omitted. For Ox-Tails in the French Manner^ see No. 401. 626. Gras Double^ i.e. Tripe, to Dress.—Take the fattest double tripe, well cleaned, and repeatedly scalded and scraped. Boil it in water two hours, and clean it again ; then stew it in a blanc from four to six hours. Cut it in fillets, and serve it in white Italian-sauce.—See No. 16. Veal. 627. The French Manner of Dividing and Dressing the Fillet.—The fillet is formed of three distinct parts; the large fat fleshy piece inside of the thigh, which the French call the noix. Of this they make a principal first-course dish. The piece below this they call the under noix, and the side part the centre noix. Of the principal noix they make a fricandeau, or a small roast, by stuffing and skewering this piece, to which in a cow-calf the udder is attached; or they fry it, d la Bourgeoise. Of this piece they also make cutlets, and grenadins. The under noix they use for pie-