116 CHAP. V. FRYING. 46. To Fry Beef-Steaks.—Dr R. Fry in butter, for twelve or fifteen minutes, pieces cut from the best part of the rump or any good joint, of the same size as for broiling. Fry them of a fine brown. The pan may be covered after the steaks are browned, which will render them more juicy. When done, place them in a hot dish by the fire; add to the gravy in the pan a small glass of red wine, and, if you like it, a small anchovy boned, pep- per, salt, and a minced eschalot. Give it a boil up, and pour what is clear over the steaks, which, like every fry and broil, must be served hot. Or fried steaks may be eaten with brown gravy, or onion-sauce, or fried onions, served very hot along with them. Garnish with pickles or scraped horse- radish. The wine may be omitted. Potato-fritters or plain small dumplings are a good accompaniment. 47. Scotch Beef-CoUops with Onions, or " CoUop in the Pan."-M. D. Cut the meat rather thinner than for broiling; make the butter hot, and place the collops in the frying-pan, with about the proportion of a couple of middle-sized onions sliced to each half-pound. If the butter be salt, pepper is used, but no additional salt. Brown, and then cover the pan with a close lid. When done, the collops may be drawn aside, and a little oyster-pickle or walnut-catsup and boiling water added to the onion-gravy sauce in the pan. Dish and serve hot.* Ten minutes will dress them. 48. To Fry Veal-Cutlets, English and French Way. Cut slices about half an inch thick from the fillet, back- ribs, or loin. If not equally cut, level them with a cutlet- bat, and shape round, about the size of the mouth of a large tea-cup. Have plenty of lard or fresh butter to fry them in, not dripping, which is not so suitable to white meats. Keep the pan at a good distance from the fire, if the cutlets be thick; when browned on both sides of a * This national dish possessed rather too much gusto for Jekyll ; but the Doctor admired it exceedingly, and even suggested that, independently of the collops, this was an excellent method of preparing onion-gravy^ which only required the addition of a little red wine and lemon juice, to those who like an acid relish, to be a complete sauce.