FRENCH COOKERY. 347 poele^ deserve tlie attention of every lover of good cheer. The French have also ever been pre-eminent as a larding nation, and as skilful in glaze. Now, though we seldom prize varnished meat, nor over-admire larding^ where meat is really good, we do highly value that union of economy with hon gout^ which enables the French to turn every cold left dish to good account, in the well-known elegant varieties of timbales^ scallops^ vols-au-vent; or by dressing in casserole, or as croquets, etc. This branch of French cookery is worth the attention of every refined economist; for though one, for example, does not go to the expense of always serving a piece of cold turbot as a dressed salad or a vol-au-vent, it is excellent to know how the cold fish is best prepared for serving in a plainer style. There is already much French cookery blended with our own, and of late we are taking to the names as well as to the dishes. Every modern cook who would thoroughly know her art must study the best French dishes, as modified by English taste and usage; and to do this she must be acquainted with the leading features of the French system. In this Chapter, therefore, besides a copious selection of receipts for the best French dishes, we have given the Ele- ments OF French Cookery ; and throughout the work, wdierever the French mode seemed to deserve approbation in any particular receipt, the variation has been pointed out. This we take leave to consider a feature as beautiful as it is original in The Cleikum Institutes of Modern Anglo- French Cookery. There are, in fact, ten times more French receipts intermixed with our English ones than are given in the following Compendium. It has already been mentioned that the Grand Divisions of a French dinner are, the First Course, or entrees, and the Second Course, or entremets. The entrees are made-dishes, generally served with sauce poured over or about them. The entremets are either savoury or sweet dishes, all sorts of pastry, creams, cakes, moulded jellies; iced puddings, with preserved fruits; fine vegetables, sweet omelets, etc. The glory of a French dinner—to the cook at least—con- sists principally in the number and excellence of the entrees and entremets; though the soups, roasts, fish, side-dishes or flancs, and removes, are not overlooked. At a small but recherche dinner, while a rump-steak stewed, or a piece of