MAKING CHEESE. 585 OF MAKING CHEESE.* Many parts of our island, from the delicate quality of the natural pastures, ought to furnish the very best cheese. We can indeed per- ceive no good reason why the cheese of Scotland and Wales should not equal in flavour that of Switzerland and Lombardy. Considerable advances have of late years been made in this tardy branch of our rural economy; but, notwithstanding the zeal with which the High- land Society has taken up this subject, the range of improvement is still limited. Though one occasionally sees excellent cheese in private families, little that is very superior comes to market, except the Ayr- shire cheese, and cheese of nearly the same kind from several coun- ties ; and it is not, after all, a very delicate cheese for the table. The low price that cheese gives in those remote parts of the country where the milk most resembles that from which the Swiss cheese is made, makes the farmer's wife still consider all the sweet milk that goes to her cheese as so much butter lost; and it will take a few more premiums, and a few more years, to convince those good wives, that a shilling got for cheese will go quite as far as one got for butter, and often be more conveniently obtained. Skim-milh cheese never can he very good. At least one-half of the milk used should be fresh from the cow. Another capital error is making the milk too hot, and then employing too much rennet, which makes the curd tough and hard, however rich its basis may have been. The quality of the rennet is also of much importance. The more gently the curd is separated from the whey, the milder will the cheese be. Made in a cylindrical form like Stilton, it will be more mellow than if moulded in a broad flat shape. Particular attention must be given to cheese in the winding or drying. The wrapping cloths must be changed very frequently, that the cheese may dry equally. The salting is also of importance; and, in preference to either salting the curd, or rubbing the new cheeses, some recommend cheeses being steeped in pickle. We would prefer salting the curd to any other mode. A sort of cheese for the table of very high gout^ an almost Tartarian preparation, is made in the north, by allowing the cream to become sour, and to coagulate of itself, which gives out flavour even more pungent than that of goat's or ewe milk cheese when cut. Cheese^ to keep, should be put in a cool and rather damp place, wrapped in a cloth, and placed in a covered jar. It should always be presented at table served on a small damask napkin. The surface of cheese, particularly a cut cheese, when to be kept, should be rubbed with butter. Dried pieces, when they cannot be presented at table, may either be grated down, to eat as a homely kind of Parmesan, or used in macaroni, etc. The offensive mould which gathers on cheese may easily be distinguished from " the bbie,"—the genuine cerugo which stamps its value,—and must be carefully wiped ofl". The production of mites may be checked by pouring spirits into the afl'ected parts. The addition of butter to the curd, or of lard rubbed into the new cheeses, is employed to enrich the quality and mellow the cheese. * Since the publication of our fifth edition, we have had the pleasure of eating Scotch cheese, made in Ettrick by receipt 1207, as good as Stilton, and taken for it. 2 B 2