CHAP. II. BOILING. 78 are best smothered with a thick, mild onion-sauce, though sometimes a liver-^mce is made thus: Boil and bruise the liver; add veal or other gravy to some of the liquor in which the rabbits were boiled. Thicken with flour, a good piece of butter, and parsley shred very fine. Season with mace and allspice. Garnish with sliced lemon. Onion-sauce is also often used for boiled goose and ducks, in preference to less piquant compositions. Rabbits will take a full hour of slow boiling; with a quarter parboiling, throwing away the first liquor; birds according to their size. 16. To Boil Tripe and Cow-lieels. Unless in country places, or where families kill their own beef, tripe is usually bought froin the butcher, or else ready- boiled at the Irijje or Cow-heel shops. It requires very long boiling—from six to nine hours of simmering by the fire, or, as is a very good practice where kitchen-fires are gathered^ it is left over a slow fire for a whole night. Tripe requires endless cleaning, and is best managed at a river-side. After- wards, to assist in the cleaning and blanching, a piece of quicklime may be dissolved in the water in which it is scalded and scraped ; but tripe so blanched may become ill coloured in the boih'ng. Tripe, like chickens, veal, etc., may be whitened by rubbing it with lemon-juice, where expense is no object. The scalding must be frequently repeated. When bought in the shops, clioose it thick, fat, and white, and see that it be fresh, 'ihe best way of keeping tripe for a few days is to allow it to jelly in the liquor in which it was boiled. When to be dressed, pare off the fat and films, and wash it with warm water. Cut it into pieces about the size of small cutlets, and simmer in milk and water till it is quite soft and tender, and the sauce thickish. Peel and boil a dozen white, firm button onions. Dish the tripe in a deep steak-dish or small tureen, and put the onions to it, taking off the surface-skin if they look black.* Many per- sons prefer tripe boiled plainly in water, and served with onion-sauce and mustard; others boil it in veal broth, or put a fresh beef-bone or veal-shank to the water, and some * Dr Redgill, to tlie above, added a bit of butter rolled in flour, and put into the sauce, half an hour before it was taken off the fire, a large teaspoonful of made-mustard, or the same quantity of mushroom-catsup, and the onions, previously parboiled, or fried in butter. This original variation was highly approved of.