CHAP. I. STEAMING. 67 Salted or spiced heef^ with suitable roots and vegetables, is one of those cut-and-come-again family dishes, which, from November till March, every sensible man hails with pleasure, whether on his own or his friend's table. To dress it in the best manner is therefore well worth the attention of the cook, the economist, and the judicious epi- cure.—See Salting. Steaming.—In large families and large establishments, steaming is found a very convenient way of preparing food; and to a limited extent it is useful and practicable in every kitchen, for small steamers may be attached to any range; and at all events everybody may have a saucepan with a Rumford steamer to fit it, or a large kettle inserted over the boiler of the range, in which small saucepans with drainers and close-fitting lids may be inserted, in which to place the meat. An apparatus of this kind, of different forms, may now be seen at the ironmongers; but as we have said of new-fashioned ranges, frying-pans, gridirons, etc., etc., let them first be carefully examined, and tried, and get the opinion of those who have used them for some time. Steaming has much to recommend it to the cook, were it only that it saves her much trouble and also from being scorched by a furious fire. Yet good cooks do not like the process; and there are grave doubts whether dishes steamed are as savoury as when cooked by the old method. The cooks at Buckingham Palace, the City Club, the Albion Tavern, etc., allege that neither meat nor fish are so well cooked by steam as by boiling in water. This does not apply to many preparations, such as jugged hare, stuffed oyster of veal, etc., etc. And steaming in numerous cases has much to recommend it. In small families, a lain marie^ or a piece of hot plate over the grate with a few embers below, will be found useful for small saucepans in which are sauces and ragouts, and generally for articles that would stew to advantage, and w^hich are not apt to be overdone, as kidneys, jugged hare, and salt tongues. Where steam is employed on any scale, the steamers must, of course, be kept thoroughly clean, and the fire must be so managed as to keep the water in the boiler of the range boiling strongly. Things to be steamed are cleaned and prepared exactly as for boiling or stewing. Several articles may be cooked in the same steamer, as veal with pickled pork under it; or