PREPARATIONS FOR THE TOILET, ETC. 565 the spiritous water of Melisse, of each fifteen ounces, strong alcohol seven pints and a half. Mix the whole together, and let the mixture stand for the space of a fortnight; after which introduce it into a glass retort, the body of which is immersed in boiling water, contained in a vessel placed over a lamp, while the beak is introduced into a large glass retort well luted. By keeping the water to the boiling point, the mixture in the retort will distil over into the receiver, which should be covered over with wet cloths. In this manner will be obtained pure Eau de Cologne at one-fourth the selling price. N.B.—The above receipt is given on the authority of Dr Granville, who, at Cologne, took some pains to learn the component parts of this favourite accompaniment of an ele- gant toilet. Only 38,000 bottles of the water are made at Cologne in the year; so that probably two-thirds of the commodity sold as such, is made of materials, and by a pro- cess far inferior to the above. 1157. A cheap Perfume.—Dip fine cotton wool, such as jewellers use, in olive-oil, and spread it in thin layers over jasmine-flowers, and rose-leaves, in a jar or glass vessel. In a week squeeze out the perfumed oil into a vial for use, and keep the scented wool to perfume clothes-presses, etc.—Ohs. One of the most effectual perfumes is fresh-burnt charcoal, as it destroys bad odours, while more elegant preparations merely conceal the smell. 1158. Thieves' Vinegar.—Take an ounce of the tops of wormwood; rosemary, sage, mint, and rue, of each half an ounce; flowers of lavender two ounces; aromatic gum, cin- namon, cloves, nutmegs, and fresh garlic, two drachms of each; half an ounce of camphor, and eight pounds of red vinegar; beat the ingredients well, put them into a proper stone jar, and pour the vinegar upon them ; the garlic ought to be sliced. After stopping the jar, put it in the sun or in a hot place, such as a sand-bath, for three or four weeks; wring out the ingredients, and filter through filtering-paper; the camphor must be previously dissolved in a little spirits of wine. This vinegar, like all perfumed liquids, ought to be kept closely corked. 1159. Rose-Vinegar for Salads^ or for the Toilet.—Put a quarter of a pound of rose-leaves to four pints of good