238 CHAF. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. KB.—Eschalot, a lemon sliced, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a quarter-pint of eating oil, stewed in a ladleful of the above gravy, with pepper, cayenne, and a glass of white wine, makes the Italienne rousse ; and the Italienne hlanclie is made by using a white instead of a brown, savoury gravy. 2572. To Make Glaze and Demi-Glaze; And to Glaze Made-Dishes^ Poultry^ Cutlets^ Tongues, Fricandeaux, Hams, etc. Glaze is a highly-condensed extract of meat. It is, in fact, a meat varnish or glue, and the cook's glaze-pot and brush are, in character, nearly allied to those of the joiner. Make a strong consomme, for which see Nos. 60 and 62, and 582. Rapidly boil down the strong prepared gravy or con- somme, stirring constantly, till it becomes thickish in drop- ping from the spoon; then pour it into a smaller sauce-pan, and still boil and stir till it is fit to become a firm jelly. Veal makes the best jelly, because it is more gelatinous than other meat; but poultry and all meat yield more or less. Where required on a large scale, glaze is kept in bladders till wanted. To Glaze.—Dishes to be glazed should first be well dried on the surface. Have, on the small scale, the glaze melted in a small jar set in boiling-water, and brush the ham, tongue, etc., to be glazed, smoothly over with one coat: this dried, lay on another, and a third if needful. Mushrooms, in general, when glazed, look better rather lightly done, so that the glaze forms rather a graceful veil than a solid varnish. Demi-glaze is made of a mixture of two parts rich brown gravy, one part of consomme, and a very small proportion of glaze, boiled first down to a clear light glaze, and used as the basis of several sauces. 258. White Gravy Sauce, The French Veloute or White Cullis, the Basis of White Sauces for Vegetables and White Fricassees, etc. Put a piece of the best end of a knuckle of veal, according to the quantity of sauce wanted, into a well-tinned stew- pan, with some lean ham, some shin-beef cut to pieces, and whatever fresh trimmings of game or poultry the larder affords. Moisten this with stock, put to it three carrots,