SAUCE FOR WILD FOWL VENISON-SA.UCES. 249 and put these ingredients, with a little salt, to a half-pint of melted butter. Let them heat up, but not boil, lest the butter oil.—Obs, Liver and Parsley Sauce is a good common sauce, and is made by parboiling the parsley and liver; and, after they are separately minced, stirring them into melted butter. 296. TJie Marquis's Sauce for Wild Fowl.—A glass of claret, a spoonful of catsup, the same of lemon-juice, a minced eschalot, a few thin slices of lemon-rind, a few grains of cayenne, two blades of mace pounded, and a large spoonful of the essence sold at the shops under the name of Sauce d la Russe. Simmer these ingredients for a few minutes, and strain them to the gravy which comes from the wild-fowl in roasting. Place the fowl on a dish heated by a lamp, and cut it up, so that the gravy as it flows out may simmer with the sauce.—Ohs, The above amateur preparation is much admired. The gravy of wild fowl is often scanty; but butter, or meat-gravy, would hurt the wild flavour Game- gravy may^ however, be made by par-roasting^ and then stewing, a partridge or grouse, by those who hesitate at no expense in the gratification of the palate. French artists procure this essence of game by slowly stewing partridges in a vessel closely covered, till they yield a strong consomme, 297. Venison-Sauces. Venison may have a sweet, a sharp, or a savoury sauce. —Sharp Sauce. A quarter-pound of the best loaf-sugar, or white candy-sugar, dissolved in a half-pint of Champagne vinegar, and carefully skimmed.—Sweet Sauce. Melt some white or red currant-jelly with a glass of white or red wine, whichever suits best in colour; or serve the jelly unmelted in a sauce-tureen. This last sauce answers well for hare, fawn, or kid, and to many tastes for roast mutton. We con- sider currant-jelly, worked cold^ very superior for venison- sauce to boiled jelly, though less transparent. Melon-pickle we reckon better still for either roast venison or mutton. It is made thus:—Pare, seed, and slice two or three rather unripe small melons ; soak them in vinegar for a week or ten days; drain off and simmer the slices in fresh vinegar till as tender as pickled beet; again drain, and leave the slices on the sieve reversed; and when dry, put them into L 2