384 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. redeem their national character from the charge of fickleness and levity. Of these farces are formed the quenelle and houdinj a class of preparations which, though made of force- meat, forms, like our sausages, a distinct order of dishes. The French forcemeats are indeed worthy of the profound attention of every refined epicure, and ought, with all speed, to supplant our home-made crude compounds. The first element in their composition is the Godiveau [of which also excellent Patties may he made), 6922. Qodiveau.—Scrape a pound of a fillet of white, well-fed veal, and mince a pound and a half of beef-suet, free from strings, skins, and kernels. Chop, of scalded parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, enough to season this meat. Add pepper, salt, allspice, and mace, and pound the whole very well, mixing in three raw eggs at different times, and a little water. To test Forcemeat. — When very well pounded, make up a small ball of the farce^ and boil it in fast-boiling water, to try if it be light, well seasoned, and good. By this proof-hall be guided either in adopting the farce^ or in adding another egg to give firmness, or more water to liquefy the godiveau, or whatever it wants. 693. Gratin,—This farce may be made either of the white parts of a fowl or of veal. Cut a half-pound of the fillet into small bits, and toss them over the fire, in butter, for ten minutes, with salt, pepper, and herbs. Drain off the butter. Mince the meat, and then pound it, if for fowls, with their livers parboiled, veal-udder parboiled and skinned, or butter instead of udder, and panada (see next receipt). Have as much butter or veal-udder as of each of the other ingredients, i. e. a third of each. Pound the whole together, adding a raw egg at a time till you have three, as in the godiveau. Prove the forcemeat by poaching a small ball of it as directed in No. 692^. 694. Panada for Forcemeats.—Soak slices of bread in hot milk. Press out the milk when the bread is quite moist, and beat up the bread with a little rich broth or white sauce, and a lump of butter. Stir till this becomes somewhat dry and firm. Add the yolks of two eggs, and pound the whole well together. 695. Quenelles de Volaille, or Forcemeat-Balls of Poultry as a Dish.—Strip off the skin, pull out the sinews, and .?