509 TEA-CAKES. 1021. Wine-Biscuit.—Have a pound of the finest flour thrice-bolted," dry and sifted. Rub down among it three ounces of butter; add sugar and salt to taste. Make a dough of this with warm good milk, and a spoonful of sweet yeast. Knead it quickly up, and let it repose an hour. Eoll it out thin and stamp, and then prick the biscuits with a dabber. Bake in a quick oven. 1022. Imitation of Leman's^ Biscuit--Ho the above dough put a bit of sal volatile. Roll out, and mould in the form of Leman's biscuit in square and oblong figures, and balls flattened. Prick and fire them lightly. Small Tea-Cakes.t 1023. Good Tea-Calces.—Rub four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour, and mix with this six ounces of cleaned currants, the same of beat sugar, and three beat eggs. Make this into a paste, and roll it out about a half-inch thick, and stamp out the cakes of any size you please with an inverted wine-glass, ale-glass, or small tumbler, by running a paste- cutter round the glass. Dust the top with sugar, with which, for all these small cakes, a few finely-chopped almonds may be mixed. 1024. Tunhridge and Shrewsbury Cakes.—Make them as * Wliile the House of the Great Leman or his representatives flourishes in London, and that of the not less famous Littlejolm in Edinburgh, we would say huy biscuits and rusks, and you will be sure to have the best.—W. W. f The greatest difficulty we have experienced in correcting the various editions of this immortal work has been in restraining the headlong torrent of our extensive culinary knowledge within reasonable bounds: what to tell, and what to suppress—not when to begin, but where to have done prescribing, has been our stumbling-block. We confess a strong natural leaning to the side of plenty—nay, of abundance—and of good-nature. If the solitary gourmand have his salmi, hia rognons, his soupe a la Cam- erani,^'' who would deny to the spinster her cordial waters, and the petti- coat-tails (No. 1026) that grace her tea-table; or to the schoolboy his mince- pie and "hot-cross bun?" Besides, at our table d'hote every kind of guest expects to find what will suit both his palate, his purse, and his humour. " We always," says the chief of Modern Reviewers, "fancied the descrip- tion of Harriet Byron's wedding-clothes (in Sir Charles Grandison) de trap, till we found that two young ladies of our acquaintance had copied out the whole passage for their private entertainment." We quote from memory, but this is the idea,—and this must be our apology for the superfluous variety of our puddings, calces, liqueurs, and even sauces,—the half of the number here described cannot be used in any single family; yet, for the many families into whose hands our work may fall, it is requisite that they should all be known—P. T. Small tea-cakes, and even shortbread, may be baked in the American Despatch.