TIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING. 540 fumigated by a lighted match after they are well brushed, washed, and dried. Wash and drain them again ; but better, if for good liquor, break them. The lead shot used for clean- ing bottles should be carefully removed before they are filled. Bottle-wax is sold ready prepared, or is easily made thus :— 1112. Bottle-Wax.—A pound of rosin, a pound of bees- wax, and a half-pound of tallow. Mix with this red or yellow ochre, soot, or Spanish whiting, whichever colour you want. Melt it carefully, stirring all the while. If likely to boil over, stir with a candle-end, which will allay the ebullition. 1113. To prevent Liquors from having a Corked Taste.— Dip the corks in a varnish made of equal quantities of puri- fied wax and suet melted together, and repeat the dipping till the end of the cork is covered with the mixture. N.B.—We are not sure of this prescription. It will pre- vent a corked taste; but, by contracting the fibres of the cork, will it as effectually exclude the external air ? TABLE OF THE AVERAGE TIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING, ROASTING, AND FRYING DIFFERENT QUANTITIES OF MEAT, FISH, AND VEGETABLES. Boiling, Mean Time.* A Salted Kound, of twenty to twenty-five pounds, four to five hours. Edge -bone, of ten to fourteen pounds, three hours. Brisket, of ten pounds, three hours. Ham, of twelve to sixteen pounds, simmer slowly four hours, or boil two, and toast before the fire. Tongues, two hours if fresh; if salt and dry, from three to four hours' slow boiling. Leg of Mutton, of nine pounds, simmer for three hours. Neck of Mutton, from five to seven pounds, two and a half hours. Shoulder, of seven pounds, two and a half hours' simmering. * By boiling, we mean simmering slowly; keeping the meat, when brought to boil, at the boiling-point, without violent ebullition. Fish, potatoes, artichokes, carrots, and other things, must be -probed to try if they be done. N.B.—The time specified for butcher's meat is rather under than over^ which is the safest side to err on; for fish rather over^ which is the safe side too. An experienced cook knows at a glance when things are ready; when the eyes of fish start, and the fins loosen; when jets of steam from roasts draw to the fire, when vegetables sink in the boiling water, and so on. A young cook must study the clock, and probe.