255 FISH-SAUCES. the service. When a compound or douhle-relish sauce is wanted, we would recommend brown gravy-sauce for the basis instead of plain melted butter. Anchoi^y-sauce may have chopped capers and cayenne added to it, and will then be a good fish-sauce for haddocks, skate, etc.—See No. 326. 314. Liver-Sauce for Fish.—Boil the fish-liver by itself; take away all fibres and black parts that attach to it, and pound it in a mortar. Boil it up in thin melted butter with cayenne, and sharpen with lemon-juice, or lemon cut in dice. If a higher gout is wanted, add soy, essence of anchovy, or catsup, instead of lemon-juice, or in addition to it.—Ohs. Liver-sauces are declining in favour. 315. A plain Sauce for Fish,—Melt some butter in hot water and vinegar; add the liver first boiled and chopped, and thicken with the yolk of an egg and flour. Mustard, or a teaspoonful of catsup, of Harvey^ or walnut-pickle, is a cheap good addition to the above. 316. Macherel-Roe Sauce.—Boil two or three soft roes; take away the filaments that hang about them, and bruise them with the yolk of an egg. Stir this into a little thin parsley and butter, or fennel and butter, and add a little vinegar or walnut-pickle, with pepper and salt. 317. The Old Admiral's Sauce.— Chop an anchovy, a dozen capers, and four eschalots or rocamboles; simmer these in melted butter till the anchovy dissolves; season with pepper and salt; and when ready, add the juice of a lemon and grated nutmeg. 318. ^ Grill-Sauce.—Thicken good brown gravy. No. 257, with butter and browned flour to the consistence of a thin batter; add to it a spoonful of walnut-catsup, the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a dozen chopped capers, a teaspoonful of the essence of anchovies, a bit of eschalot finely minced, a few grains of cayenne, and a tea- spoonful of grated rind of lemon. Simmer these ingredients for a minute, and, pouring a little hot over the grill, serve the rest in a tureen. 319. Dutch Sauce.—English way ; Boil a large spoonful of vinegar with two blades of mace and some cayenne: in this melt three ounces of butter rolled in flour, stirring it.