318 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES when melted, drain off most of the liquid, and add flour. Brown the steaks in this roux^ and then moisten them with red wine, and good stock. Add minced parsley, onions, pepper, salt, and also garlic, if admired. Let this cook slowly, shaking the pan occasionally. Add a few small onions and mushrooms. Let the meat still stew slowly for two hours, and until the sauce is of good consistence. This is elegantly served en casserole. Hare or rabbits thus cooked make good civet Made-Dishes of Cold Venison. 504. To Stew Cold Venison,—Make a gravy of what re- mains about the bones after cutting off the meat, a little strong unseasoned mutton-stock, and a bundle of fine herbs. When this is good, skim it, and add browned butter thick- ened with flour; also catsup, mixed spices, a little claret, and a spoonful of currant-jelly, if liked. Boil this till smooth, stirring it well, and put in the thinly-sliced venison. Let it only heat thoroughly, and, taking out the herbs, dish it, squeezing a lemon into the dish. Garnish with slices ot lemon and fried sippets, or with cut pickles. 505. To Hash Venison.—Cut the meat as for other hashes, and soak till warm in its own gravy. Season and dish it with toasted sippets.—Ohs. When the hashed venison is very lean, some cooks cut the firm fat of a neck of mutton into thin small slices, stew them first in wine and sugar, and add them to the hash. A large piece of cold venison, when it cannot be used otherwise, will make a good stew- soup, made as directed for dressed veal stew-soup —For Roasting Venison, see No. 21.—CollopSj No. 55. Made-Dishes of Hare and R-abbit. 506. To Sfevj a Hare,—Cut off the legs and shoulders, or wings, as they are sometimes called; cut down the middle of the back, and then chop each side into three or four pieces. Season these with mixed spices, and soak* them for some hours in a glassful of eschalot-vinegar, with three bay-leaves and some cloves. Make a pint and a half of * The propriety of this and of all marinades is strongly doubted by some gastronomers of repute. They do not consider the foreign flavour imparted by the soaking as an equivalent for the native juices withdraAvn,