315 OP LAMB. seasoning of chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, and salt. Fry tliem of a fine light-brown, and pour over them some good thickened gravy, in which put a glass of wine, and either a few stewed oysters or mushrooms. Skim the sauce, and serve the dish very hot, garnishing it with forcemeat-balls, fried bread, or cut pickles if preferred. These chops, which form a nice side-dish, may be served over a puree of turnip ; or with pease, or stewed cucumbers, 493. Another way, — Fry the steaks for five minutes in butter ; drain them, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and finish them on the gridiron, 494. Lamb-Sweetbreads Ragout.—Blanch what will make a dish with scalding water. Soak and stew them in good clear gravy for twenty minutes, adding white pepper, mace, and salt. Thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour. Beat up two yolks of eggs and a glass of sweet cream, with a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, and a little nutmeg. Take off the stewpan, and gradually mix in the beat egg and cream. Make the sauce hot, stirring it diligently, and, lest it curdle, do not let it boil. Asparagus-points, or cut young French beans, first parboiled, may be stirred into the ragout.—Obs, If the sweetbreads are very large they must be cut. 495. Lamb-Chops with Potatoes,, a favourite Dish.—Cut the back-ribs of a large lamb into handsome chops, trimming off the bone with a chopping-knife. Season, and brush the chops with a beat egg ; dip them in crumbs and minced parsley, and fry them nicely. Place mashed potatoes (made somewhat thin with butter and cream, and again heated) high in the centre of a dish, score this neatly, and lay the hot chops around, leaning each chop on the side of the adjoining one, — Obs. A finely-minced onion may be added to the mashed potatoes, if the flavour is liked. This is just a puree of potatoes. To dress LamVs Liver^ see p. 119. To dress Lamb^s Head, or Calfs Ilead^ see Nos. 457 and 748^. 496. To Dress a Leg of Lamb with Vegetables. — Cut the loin into handsome steaks, and fry them nicely. Boil the gigot slowly in a cloth, skimming well, that it may look white and plump. Place it in the middle of the dish, lay