TO SCALLOP, GRILL, AND BROWN OYSTERS. 199 sauce over them.—Ohs, A sort of deviled stew is made by- adding more seasonings and Parmesan cheese; which high- flavoured cheese the French employ frequently for relishing ragouts, both of meat and fish. If it be true that all fish require silver knives and forks, this holds peculiarly of oysters. A genuine oyster-eater rejects all additions,—wine, eschalot, lemon, etc., are alike obnoxious to his taste for the native juice. 178, To Scallop Oysters or Cockles. Having scalded, bearded, and stewed the oysters, as above directed, for two or three minutes in their own cleared juice, have some bread-crumbs moistened with the oyster-liquor, a good piece of butter melted, and a little wine. Place some of this in scallop-shapes, and cover with a layer of oysters, then more moistened bread-crumbs, next oysters, and finish with the bread-crumbs mixed with a little grated lemon-peel and finely shred parsley. Put some bits of butter over the whole, and brown in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. 179. To Grill Oysters. Blanch them in a stew-pan in their own juice, beard and wash them out of this, and in another stew-pan give them a toss with a bit of fresh butter and a little chopped parsley; but do not let them boil. Place them in their own shells, previously well cleaned, and put some bits of butter over them. Place the shells on the gridiron; two minutes will do them. Nutmeg is added sometimes, both to scalloped and grilled oysters; but we do not approve of it. Two may be put in one shell. 180. To Brown Oysters in their own Juice. Beard and wash them in their juice, and dip them one by one in yolk of egg beat up with a very little flour, pepper, and salt. Brown a good piece of butter in the fry- ing-pan, and brown the oysters nicely over a quick fire; draw them aside, and pour their juice, strained, into the pan; thicken it with a very little flour kneaded in butter, and when it boils stir the oysters among it for a few minutes. This answers for brown sauce to cod's head and shoul- ders, and for calf s head, etc.; but when to be served as a