TO FATTEN POULTRY—TO PRESERVE EGGS. 591 usual manner, which is well known to every experimental cheese- maker. M. Van Bell advises the use of pickling-troughs, of a depth sufficient to allow the cheeses to float, in order that the pickle may penetrate them equally on all sides. In a tract upon cheese-making, published some time since by Mr Fulton, who appears well acquainted with the methods practised in the Dunlop district, and also with those of Cheshire, we find nothing so strenuously urged as something equi- valent to a large importation of Dolly Buttons. Dolly, be it remem- bered, accompanied Jeanie Deans to Roseneath, to introduce dairy reforms under the auspices of the Duke of Argyle. 1212. To Fatten Poultry for the Table.—Keep the fowls clean, warm, and dry. Mix together for their food, oat and pease meal with mashed potatoes, and a little kitchen stuff. Have their food always fresh and in plenty, but do not cram them. Rice swelled in ^WQQt skimmed milk is liked to fatten fowls by those who value the colour as much as the quality. In France they are fattened on barley-meal with milk, or on buckwheat, and the flavour is excellent. Young pullets are used at any age, but, for the more delicate purposes of cookery, they are best at the age of seven or eight montlis. There are now innumerable varieties of ornamental fowls. In these we leave fowl- fanciers to follow their fancy; and stand by Dorkings white, and Polanders black, which are good layers, and are also approved for the table. Turkeys are fed as above ; or on stewed barley, with the part of wheat-flour called in Scotland paring-meal mixed with it. In Indian-corn-meal and buckwheat we have now admirable articles for fattening poultry. We give no receipts for cramming. To keep hens laying in winter, the French give them nettle-seed and bruised hemp-seed. In establishments where much attention is paid to poultry, besides taking great care to keep them clean and warm, which is necessary to the thriving or fattening of every kind of animal, they are fed with toasts and ale, barley sodden and steeped in fresh beer, or messes of pease-meal or rye-flour The Malay or Chittagong fowls have, for some years, been favourites in Scotland. They are a handsome and economical variety; and of late the Cochin fowls have gained favour as great layers. The game breed of fowls is of high flavour. 1213. Eggs, to preserve.—They should at all times, either when bought or gathered from the nests, be rubbed with butter, or soaked in olive or sweet oil. A minute will go over dozens, and this simple process will generally be sufficient to preserve them as long as required in private families, and even when they are to be exported from Ireland, France, Orkney, Jersey, and the many places from which eggs are now sent to the markets of our great cities. They may also be preserved by a solution of quicklime,* salt, and cream of tartar, poured over them in the keg in which they are packed. In England, old-fashioned housewives, after smearing, hang eggs in a net, which is turned upside-down daily. To keep if for plain boiling, they may be parboiled one minute. * Three pounds quicklime, ten ounces salt, one ounce cream of tartar, over which pour a gallon and a half of boiling water. Next day cover the eggs with the solution. They will keep long, but the shell becomes very brittle.