142 CHAP. Vr.—BROTHS, SOUP?, AND GRAVIES. soup may be made, still more expensively, of chickens cut in pieces, of rabbits, or small mutton cutlets all first browned ; but is best when made of well-fed veal. For East Indian palates, eschalots, mace, and ginger may be employed, and, more elegantly, pickled mangoes and grated cocoa-nut: the quantity must be left to the discretion of the cook.—gee Mullagatawny as made in India^ Nos. 757-9 ; also No. 98. N.B.—Curry^ or Mullagatawny soup, may be varied in fifty ways. Calfs Head, for example, prepared as for Mock- Turtle, and treated as above, makes admirable Mullagatawny. Boiled rice is always served with this soup. A Vegetable Mullagatawny is made maigre with butter, or gras with veal stock, by boiling and pulping chopped vegetable marrow, cucumbers, onions, and tomatoes ; and seasoning with curry- powder and cayenne. Good stock, nice bits of meat, and the curry seasonings, are the essentials. 83. Mock-Turtle, or Calf's Head Soup. Scald the head of a middle-sized, well-fed, cow-calf, with the skin on; split it and take out the brains and the gristles and bones of the nose, blanch it well in several waters, to draw out the slime. Place it in a stew-pan, and cover it with cold water; bring it to the boil, and skim without in- termission while any scum continues to arise. When the head has boiled gently for three quarters of an hour, take it out, and as soon as cold enough to cut, carve the skin and fat parts, laying aside the fleshy, into small neat pieces, in the shape of diamonds, dice, triangles, etc. Peel the tongue, and cut it into cubes of an inch square. Meanwhile, put the broken bones and trimmings of the head into your stock-pot, with a large knuckle of veal well broken, and three or four pounds of a shin of beef well soaked. Let this boil very slowly, having carefully skimmed it, for at least four hours, and take care it does not stick to the bottom of the pot; then strain for future use, and lay aside a quart of the stock for gravy. This much may be done the evening before the soup is wanted. When the soup is to be finished, take off, as in all cases, the cake ot fat which will have formed on the top, and put the stock, holding back the sediment, into a large stew-pan. If the stock is good, it will be a jelly. When it is again skimmed, put to it a dozen onions sliced, and