ROAST PIG HAUNCH OR SHOULDER OF VENISON. 89 202. itoast Pig—English Mode. In England the pig is generally cut off the spit down the middle on both sides; the head is cut off and divided, and the jaws are stuck up on each side for ornament, instead of the pippin, which was wont of old to be stuck in the grin- ning chops of the savoury cherub. Roast pig, when not liked cold, should be cut into neat fillets, and warmed in a strained sauce made of thin melted butter, flour and sweet herbs, chopped mushrooms, and a bay leaf, or in broth so seasoned, or in Bechamel. He may be baked, which is an excellent and convenient mode, only the cook or baker must baste him liberally.—See No. 37. ^ For an excellent way of dressing pig, see French Cookery f' also Scotch receipt. National Dishes, 21. To Roast a Haunch or Shoulder of Venison in the English Mode.—By H. J., Esq.t The meat may be kept from ten to twenty days by * The illustrious members of the Caveau Moderne, the most distin- guished gourmet and gourmand association in the world (previous to the establishment of our Cleikum Club and the City and Reform Clubs), ste3p their pig in fresh water for four hours ; baste him with a bouquet of sage dipped in olive-oil; and, for forcing, use fine herbs minced, steeped in lemon-juice, and about a pound of fresh butter. This, though French, is no bad receipt.—P. T. f WiNTERBLOSSOM and Jekyll, both men of family and fashion, the former of whom had for forty years, by one means or other, contrived " to sit at good men's feasts," took the lead here. " Nothing," said Jekyll, " can be more delicious than a fat buck from an English park, ' a hart of grease,' in the proper season. It is food for heroes and princes ; but with the good leave of our hostess, this ' doe or roe, or hart or hind' of the Caledonian forest, would please me fully better bounding on its native hills than smoking on this board. For the greater part of the year these wild animals are as sinewy, lean, and dry as the stalkers who pursue them. Roast it will not,—this meagre hard meat. With all appliances to boot, it makes but an indifferent pasty ; but after a long morning of shooting, or for adejeuner d lafourchette, I have found a fricassee of it cleverly tossed up— what you Scots call venison collops. Mistress Dods,—very tolerable eating." " And what you Englishers lick your lips after," said Meg, not a little offended. " I have had but little handling of English fallow-deer ; but as gude venishon haunch and sbouther, neck and brisket, has been roasted in my father's kitchen as e'er coost horn or cloot in an English policy (park) —Set them up !" " For my own private eating," said Touchwood, " a leg of five- year-old heath, wether mutton l3efore all the venison in the world; but on occasions of high festival, this aristocratic dish is indispensable to the fools who preside and the knaves who partake :—so about it, Captain. The dulce we leave to you and Winterblossom ; the utile is my own peculiar province."