358 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. soup of grand bouillon^ of blonde de veau, or consomme, or a part of each. Let tlie previously-cooked vermicelli boil in it five minutes, and no more.—See No. 66. 611. Potage d fltalienne, a Brown-Soup.—Cut young carrots and turnips in scrolls like ribbons; and some white of leeks, two heads of celery, and three onions in fillets. Fry these in butter* moisten with enough of strong, clear, deep- coloured gravy-stock, and some blonde de veau. Season with salt, and serve on toasted crusts previously soaked in a little stock.—See No. 81. N.B.—If the roots are old, blanch them. This, in the season, is made a sort of vegetable hotch-potch, with cut green lettuce and other vegetables, 612. Potage d la Baveau, a clear Brown-Soup,^—Scoop out yellow turnips the size of marbles, with a root-scoop. Blanch and boil these in a clear strong consomme with a little browned sugar. Colour the soup deeper with veal- gravy or more browning, and serve it on grilled crusts. 612^ Potage Anglais a la Rothschild. — (In honour of Baron Rothschild.) Put into a stock-pot two slices of ham, a turkey three-parts roasted, and somewhat coloured, also a partridge, a knuckle of veal, and the necessary beef-stock; let this consomme be skimmed; add the skins of a pound of truffles, a pottle of mushrooms, two onions, a carrot, a head of celery, and two leeks, the whole sliced; half a bay-leaf, a little thyme, basil, savory, marjoram, a little grated nut- meg, cayenne pepper, and two cloves. When it has boiled gently five hours, mix with it two whites of eggs beaten up with half a pint of hock, take it off the fire, and a quarter of an hour after strain it through a napkin; set it again on to boil, and pour it afterwards into a tureen containing some quenelles of fowl, with essence of mushrooms mixed in them ; cocks^ combs, and kidneys, and twenty small white mush- rooms.—Careme. 613. Potage au Choux^ Cabbage-Soup. — Parboil three firm white small cabbages. Drain them, and braise them in top-fat, with a few slices of bacon and seasonings. Drain them again from this fat; quarter them, and slide them into * The French sometimes brown their carrots and turnips in butter, and rub them through a sieve if for carrot or turnip soup.—See Nos. 63, 64.