262 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. ferment for four months, and a strong and well-coloured vinegar will be the result. 340. Gooseberry-Vinegar, — To every quart of bruised ripe white or green gooseberries put three quarts of spring- water. Stir them well with the water, and let them steep for forty-eight hours, repeating the stirring. Strain through a flannel bag, and put two pounds of white pounded sugar to every gallon of liquor. Put it into a barrel with a toast soaked in yeast, leaving the bung-hole as directed above. Keep the barrel in a warm place. White currants or rasp- berries make an excellent vinegar by following the same receipt. Pick the currants from the stalks. 341. Vinegar of Wine-Lees.—Boil the wine-lees quickly for half an hour, skimming well. Cask the lees and add some chervil. Stop the cask, and in a month it will be fit for use as vinegar. 342. Verjuice, — Gather some ripe crab-apples, and lay them in a heap to sweat; then throw away the stalks and decayed fruit, and having mashed the apples, express the juice. (A cider or wine press will be useful for this pur- pose.) Strain it: in a month it will be ready. This is the best simple substitute for lemon-juice that can be found: it also answers well in place of sorrel. The French, for many dishes, prefer verjuice to lemon-acid. It is used by great economists in preparing lemonade. 343. Alegar.—This is often made of stale beer, but is best when made of fresh worts, fermented with sour yeast, and set in the sun till the acetous fermentation takes place. 344. Raisin-Vinegar,—After making raisin-wine lay the refuse in a heap to ferment. Add water in the proportion of a gallon to the pound of raisins and half-pound of sugar. Put yeast to the liquor when strained. 345. Flavoured Vinegars.—These are a cheap and agreeable addition to sauces, hashes, and ragouts, and have the convenience of being always at hand at seasons when herbs are either very costly or not to be procured. They may be coloured with a few grains of cochineal. They keep long, and being so serviceable ought to be regularly prepared. Make them of the best pickling vinegar, 346. Chili-Vinegar and Cayenne-Vinegar, called Pepper-