301 OP VEAL. 445. Maintenon Cutlets.—Cut, flatten, and shape small round cutlets, season them with mixed spices, dip them in beat egg, and then in bread-crumbs and pulverized sweet- herbs, with a little grated nutmeg. Broil them over a sharp clear fire, turning them quickly, and moistening with melted butter. Twist each cutlet neatly up in thin writing-paper made hot, and serve them accompanied by mushroom sauce or catsup, stirred into plain melted butter. These cutlets may be dressed by stewing them for a few minutes with chopped parsley, butter, and rasped bacon, and finishing en papillote.-—Ohs. Common books of cookery recommend dressing veal-cutlets, salmon-cutlets, etc., in paper,—a plan which is extremely difficult even in the hands of a French artist, and which requires several folds of buttered or oiled paper put on at first, and supplied by fresh buttered paper when the cutlet is nearly dressed. The original paper will look greasy and besmeared whatever care the cook may take, and fresh paper spoils the meat.*—See Cutlets, No. 48. 446. Various Ways of Dressing Veal.—Prepare as above, and dress cutlets in a Dutch oven, pouring melted butter and mushrooms over them. Fresh Veal minced, with the grate of a lemon or nutmeg, and a little shred mutton-suet, makes a good small-dish or supper-dish, and warms up well, or does for patties or scallops. Veal-rolls, for a corner-dish or supper-dish, are made of long thin slices of veal flattened, seasoned, and rolled round a forcemeat of grated ham, suet, eschalot, parsley, and spices. Tie the rolls tight, and stew them slowly in gravy, adding white wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve in a ragout-dish. Stewed mushrooms are a suitable accompaniment to this dish, which is just another name for veal-olives. Veal makes excellent curry ov pillau. See Nos. 534, 753. 447. To Dress a Calfs PlucTc.—Clean and stuff the heart with the forcemeat of No. 8. Spread a veal-caul, or slices of fat bacon over it, and bake it. Boil, for an hour, the half of the liver and lights, and mince them rather finer than for a hash. Simmer this mince for a half-hour in a little gravy, seasoning it with the juice of a lemon, catsup, white pepper, chopped parsley, and salt. Dish the mince, * Nothing should be dressed en pajpillote in an English kitchen, save a pig's ears and tail. It is never well done.—P. T.