854 CHAP II. FRENCH COOKERY. Ohs. This sauce is exceedingly admired by some fish-eaters; indeed, fish served with it is preferred by them to all other ways of dressing fish. 596^. Sauce Hollandaise for Fish.—Melt a quarter-pound of butter, into which stir by degrees the beat yolks of two eggs, the juice of a lemon, w^hite pepper and salt previously mixed with a little milk or cream. Stir diligently to pre- vent curdling, and add more melted butter, about a half- pint ; half this quantity of eggs and butter will be enough for a small sauce-tureen. 597. Common Sauce a la Matelote.—Take a heaped spoon- ful of minced parsley, chives, and mushrooms, and give them a fry in butter. Dredge them with flour, and moisten with consomme till sufficiently thin. When stewed a few minutes, add gradually the beat yolks of two eggs, and take care they do not curdle.—Ohs. Tliis is a cheap, general, useful sauce for mutton-cutlets, palates, and sweetbreads, as well as for fish. Beauvilliers' Matelote is made of Espagnole reduced, small onions fried in butter, and dressed mushrooms and artichoke- bottoms. It is an excellent composition. 598. Remoulade.—Pound the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs in a mortar, with a little sour cream, or the raw yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, pepper, salt, cayenne, one spoonful of vinegar and two of oil. Rub this salad-sauce through a sieve, and it is ready. 599. Salmi Sauce a VEspagnole^ a Game Sauce.—This is a sauce of high relish. Fry in butter, over a slow fire, three eschalots chopped, a sliced carrot, a bunch of parsley, some bits of bacon, and a sprig of thyme. Let them just catchy and moisten them with Madeira. Let this reduce a little, and add to it any trimmings of the game, and a little Espagnole. Let this stew till it is very good; season it with salt and pepper; skim and strain it. This sauce is served over salmis of partridge, duck, etc. 600. Poivrade-Sauce.—Cut six ounces of ham into bits, and fry them in butter with a few sprigs of parsley, a few young onions sliced, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a sprig of sweet-basil, one of thyme, and two cloves. When well fried over a quick fire, add pepper, cayenne, celery, if you like, a little tarragon-vinegar, and a half-pint of consomme. Let