TO STEW TROUT, ETC. SOLES, EELS, ETC. 181 on the Clyde, and round all the north-east and west coasts of Scotland. 140. To Stew Trout, Carp, or Perch. Clean and skin the fish; if large, they may be divided or split. Kub them inside with salt and mixed spices. Lay them in the stew-pan, and put in nearly as much good stock as will cover them, with a couple of onions and four cloves stuck in them, some Jamaica and black peppercorns, and a bit of mace; and when the fish have stewed five minutes, a couple of glasses of white wine, a boned anchovy, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne. Take up the fish carefully when ready, and keep them hot. Thicken the sauce with butter kneaded in brown flour; add a little mush- room-catsup and a few pickled oysters, if approved:—the sauce, though less piquant, is more delicate without catsup. Having skimmed and strained, pour it hot over the fish.— Ohs. In the French and Dutch kitchen, fish is sometimes stewed maigre with wine, spiceries, and butter. The dry, austere or sub-acid wines are the best adapted for this pur- pose. The sauce is thickened with bread boiled in it. These fish may all be boiled plain, and served with finely-minced parsley and butter, or fennel, or chervil and butter, or equal parts of each. (See Fish Sauces.)—The fish may be browned previously; but we conceive the flavour better when they are at once put to stew in the sauce. In England fish is sometimes stewed in cider instead of wine, seasoning with cayenne, eschalot, or onion. In Germany carp is sometimes even yet stewed in strong ale thickened with gingerbread! —See Nos. 685-7. 141. To Stew Soles, Eels, Lampreys, and Fillets of Turbot, Halibut, Whitings, Cod, etc. Clean, skin, and trim the fish. Eels must be cut in from three to four-inch lengths, and rubbed with salt to draw out the slime. Wash them thoroughly; cut off the heads. The other kinds of fish may be cut into larger pieces; the pieces may be dipped in egg, rolled in grated crumbs, and browned before they are put into the stew-pan. Have a pint and a half of good clear beef-gravy, in which two onions, a carrot, and a few savoury herbs have been boiled. Stew the fish in this gravy very gently, giving a quarter of an hour to the harder sorts, and about ten