121 PREPARE CRUMBS FRY HERBS. 57. To prepare Crumbs for Crumbing and Frying, and to Fry Crumbs and Parsley. ' Toast carefully in an American oven thin slices of bread with the crust off; or, better, place it for a night in a cool oven to be bis-cuit, L e. twice baked; when very crisp crumble and roll or rub it down into fine crumbs for things fried, or to dredge hams, bacon, or frying fish with. To fry parsley, have the frying-pan well filled with very hot drip- ping or lard. Have young parsley nicely picked, washed, drained, and then rubbed lightly between the folds of a cloth to dry. It must be fried quickly to get crisp. The moment it is done lift it with a slice, and place it before the fire on a sieve reversed, to drain and become more crisp; or it may be crisped in a Dutch oven before the fire. There is now a useful wire basket, for holding parsley while frying. Par- sley fried is used for garnishing lamb-chops, liver, or any meat dish to which the flavour of parsley is suitable. Many things are served on fried parsley. (See Dried Herbs.)— Bread-Crumbs are fried and drained in the same manner, taking care that the fat is perfectly clear and transparent, and that the bread is not burned. Sippets cut thin may be stamped out with pastry stamps in the form of stars, the Maltese cross, triangles, diamonds, paper-kites, cocks'-combs, etc., etc., and nicely fried and drained before the fire to serve for garnishings. Fried bread and crumbs are useful articles for garnishing, as they never fail, when well done, to be eaten with the dish they are employed to ornament. Another Way.—Fry in a wire basket; or, as a substitute, in a colander held among the frying-fat. Crumbs will thus be easily lifted when dry and firm. Parsley fried may be afterwards dried in the oven. 58, To Fry Herbs to serve with Bacon and Eggs, or Calf's Liver. Take two handfuls of spinage, a bunch of parsley, and a few chives or young onions. Pick, cut, wash, drain, and stew them slowly in a very little broth and butter, taking care they do not burn. They may also be fried in a net, or wire basket, placed in the frying-fat. N.B.—For frying Fish, see No. 136.