271 TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS, ETC. Change the brine twice in that time. Keep a sinking-board over them, for if they are exposed to the air they will turn black. Drain them, and run a bodkin or steel pin into each walnut in several places. Lay plenty of vine-leaves or cabbage-leaves in the bottom of a stewpan. Place the walnuts on these, and cover them with more leaves; fill the vessel with water, and give them a scald ; let them stand to cool, and repeat this several times, pouring off the blackened water, and supplying its place with scalding water. When the husks become soft, scrape them off with a knife as quickly as possible; and, rubbing the walnuts smooth with flannel, throw them into a vessel of hot water. Boil for three minutes a quart of the best vinegar for every fifty walnuts, with white pepper, salt, ginger, cloves, and cayenne. Eub the walnuts well in a cloth, and pour the vinegar over them. Walnuts are pickled black in an easier manner, by merely steeping for twelve days in strong brine, renewed every three days, rubbing them smooth and dry, and pouring boiling vinegar over them, seasoned with pepper, horseradish, garlic, and. mustard-seed. 375. To Pickle Mushrooms^ and keep in Brine for Winter Use.—Choose small white button-mushrooms, and rub them w^ith flannel or a sponge dipped in a little salt. Put them into a stone jar, with some mace, ginger, pepper, and salt, and let them stew in their own juices over a slow fire, shaking them well, but not breaking them. Let them re- main over the fire till they are almost dry, but take care they do not burn. When the liquor is all reimbibed by the mushrooms, put in as much hot vinegar as will cover them, and let them just come to boil. AVhen cold, bottle them in jars, and after a week fill up the jars with vinegar, scalded and then cooled; and pour a little salad-oil into the necks of the bottles, which will aid in excluding the air. Cork the bottles, wrapping bladder or leather round the corks, and dip in bottle-rosin the corks of those which are to be long kept. To keep in brine.—Prepare buttons as above directed; and for every pint make a brine by boiling, in a pint of water, six ounces of salt and one of sugar, with a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Scald the mushrooms in the boiling brine for six minutes. Finer seasonings may be added; but we consider this unnecessary, as the mushrooms are to be afterwards cooked. If to keep, bottle and treat