469 ICES, CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. of lemon-peel; fill it half-full or more with the brightest calves'-feet jelly ; let that get firm on the ice. Fill up the mould with a rose-coloured or other tinted jelly. For creams or jellies moulded, freezing is necessary to make sure of a fine and entire shape; and also isinglass. If too rich in syrup, cream-jellies will not readily take shape. If too watery, fruit-jellies will set in a half-dissolved ice. It is considered useful to half-freeze the liquids before filling the moulds; or to test them by trying a little in a small mould, to see if strong enough to keep shape. If not, more clarified isinglass must be used. Metal moulds give red jellies a dull colour. It is as necessary to wet moulds for creams and jellies, as to butter them for hot puddings. All creams are made in nearly the same manner, the chief difference arising from the flavouring ingredient, which generally gives the name; as pine-apple^ ^offee^ chocolate^ pistachio^ or van- illa cream. Though creams certainly look handsomer when moulded, they are not better than when served in glass-cups. The yolk of one egg to every cupful is a good rule in making creams and custards to be served in cups, but many more are often used for moulds. A little grated nutmeg, or cinnamon, may be sprinkled over creams served in cups. The exact quantity of isinglass necessary can only be known by experiment, this commodity varies so much in strength. For a large mould the material must be stiffer, to keep shape, than for a small one, especially if you have no ice-pot. 885. Isinglass to clarify,—When fruit or Fancy-jellies are wished of peculiar brilliancy, the finest isinglass sold may be farther cleared thus:—Cut in filaments with scissors, what is required—which for a shape may vary from an ounce to two ounces and a half. For every ounce take a short pint of water, in which whisk a teaspoonful of white of egg. Set this by the side of the fire in a stoneware pipkin ; drop in the cut isinglass, and mix thoroughly. Remove the scum as it rises till no more appears. If you have too much liquid boil it down, and strain it. A half-ounce to a quart of strong calves'-foot jelly-stock is a good allowance; but for fruit-juice full two ounces must be allowed. For creams and blancmanges, little or no isinglass and no clarify- ing are required. It is merely melted. 885^. Directions for Freezing Creams and Jellies.