198 CHAP. VII.—FISH. liquor. Keep them hot. Strain the liquor, and afterwards allow time for the sediment to subside. Put it into a silver or block-tin saucepan, with a bit of mace and lemon-peel, a few white peppercorns, a little butter kneaded in flour, and a glass of sweet cream, or, better, of Champagne or Madeira, if for a high relish; in which case a very little minced eschalot, or onion and cayenne, may be added. Let it boil for a few minutes, and slip in the oysters, simmer very gently for five minutes, lift them with a silver spoon into a deep hot dish with toasted sippets in it, and strain the our Presbyterian capital, an Oyster-ploij, which always included music and a little dance, was the delight of the young fashionables of both sexes." The municipal authorities of Edinburgh were wont to pay considerable attention to " The feast of shells," both as regarded the supply and the price,—and we hope they do so still. At the commencement of the dredg- ing season, a voyage was boldly undertaken to the oyster-beds in the Frith of Forth by the public functionaries, with something of the solemnity of the Doge of Venice wedding his Adriatic bride. Even the plodding fisher- men of our bleak coasts seem to catch inspiration from this delicate crea- ture. Instead of the whisky inspiration which supports them in dragging the herring-nets, or throwing the cod-lines, like the fishermen of the Sicil- ian seas, they " Sing to charai the spirits of the deep," as they troll the dredging-nets. There is indeed a poetical notion that the oyster, among his other gentle qualities, is inclined to minstrelsy— " The Herring loves the merry moonlight, The Mackerel loves the wind, But the Oyster loves the dredging-sang, For he comes of gentle kind." The Nabob, emulous of the well-earned fame of Dr Kitchinee, who has set the ancient duet between Bubble and Squeak with proper accompani- ments, wished to embellish this volume with the music of the " Dr edging- Song,''^ and the shrilling recitative of the oyster-wives,—those Maids of Honour to the " Empress of the North," who, for miles off, are heard when September evenings begin to shorten—cuckoos of autumn—harbingers of winter—screaming around "her Mountain Throne"—drowning the sum- mer " babble of green trees," and bringing back the genial associations of " rousing nights," merry tavern-suppers, and " a quarter of a hundred after the play." There is perhaps no spot on earth where oysters were enjoyed in such perfection as at the head of the Old Fishmarket Close of Edin- burgh ; once,—alas the change!—the cynosure of all the taverns, fish- creels, and booksellers' shops of that learned city : the place where eating, learning, and law sat enthroned side by side. Here, on any evening from October till March, the oyster gourmand took his solitary stand, and enjoyed his delicious regale in its utmost earthly perfection,—swallowed alive with its own gravy the moment it was opened by the fishwife ; who operated on the shell with a dexterity of manipulation, a rapidity of fingering, that no pianoforte-player we ever saw could vie with,—nothing indeed could be compared with it except the eager voracity of those genuine lovers of the oyster, to whom these piscatory Hebes ministered. Dr Kedgill resolved to visit this favourite spot on the first night of his sojourn in Edinburgh.— Edit.