229 TO STORE FRUITS, ETC. Soak them before they are used. After all this trouble they are but the ghosts of sweet, young pease. They may also be scalded, bottled, covered with clarified butter, corked up, and the corks dipped in rosin; but nothing will preserve the sweet flavour and marrowy substance of the young pea. When used boil them with a bit of sugar. Cabbages, lettuce, greens, endive, leeks, cauliflowers, etc., if carefully removed in dry weather from the ground, without injuring the roots, and laid in a cold cellar, or on a stone floor, cover- ing the roots only with earth or sand, will keep through the winter even when the frost might destroy them if left in the garden; and this we conceive the best mode of preservation. —Ohs. Vegetables slightly touched by frost may be parti- ally recovered by soaking in water. 243. To Store Fruits of Different Kinds. This art is now so well understood, that in spring and early summer, apples, and even some kinds of pears, are seen as plump and fresh as in the autumn when they are gathered. Gather apples when just ready to drop off easily, but not over-ripe,—do not bruise any fruit in gathering. Wipe each apple or pear, one by one, and wrap in paper :—place them in stoneware gallon jars, bedded in fine sifted sand, dried in an oven:—fill up the jars with sand, which will imbibe any moisture that might injure the fruit. If fruit is frozen, steep it in cold water, as in all cases of things frozen, that it may thaw gradually. Pack each sort of fruit by itself; label jars and close them, and keep them in an airy loft, but protect from frost by covering them with a thick cloth. N.B.—Eggs, fruit, and other things packed in straw, acquire a musty flavour. This, which is called being straw- tasted^ may be avoided by using dried fern, sawdust, or bran, for packing. 244. Herbs and Seeds to dry for Kitchen Use. The herbs which are generally kept dry are mint, knotted marjoram, thyme, sweet basil, and sage, and parsley and celery-seeds; gather them when ripe, and put in a cool oven, meat-screen, or drying stove; dry them quickly, but do not