183 TO COLLAR AND SPITCHCOCK EELS. it highly by rubbing it with mixed spices finely pounded, chopped parsley, sage, and a sprig of lemon-thyme. Roll up and bind the collar with tape, and boil it in salt and water till tender. It may be served whole with a sharp sauce, or it may be cut in slices. It will keep in a pickle of the liquor it was boiled in, adding salt and vinegar. Eels may be stewed as carp, but are a rather luscious dish. 144. To Spitchcock Eels. Linlithgow Receipt Clean them well, and rub with salt. Slit open the belly and take out the bone. Wash and dry them, cut in pieces about four inches long, dredge with flour, which wipe off, that they may be quite dry. Dip them in a thick batter made of melted butter, yolk of eggs, with a little minced parsley, sage and a very little eschalot, with pepper, cayenne, and salt. Eoll the pieces in fine grated bread- crumbs, or biscuit pounded. Dip and roll them again, and broil on a clear fire of a fine light brown. Eels may be thus dipped and broiled whole if they are not too large, or roasted in a Dutch oven. Serve either anchovy-sauce or melted butter, acidulated with any favourite flavoured vinegar. Garnish with crisped parsley. Eels are, by many gourmands^ preferred when boiled plain, strewing dried parsley and sage, pulverized, over them, and serving with them plain melted butter, sharpened with lemon-juice. (See also Remoulade and Tar tar-sauce.)—Eels are also dressed as Fish in Sauce, or as Water-Souchy. They are sometimes farced. 145. To Fry Sprats, Smelts, and other Small Fish. Clean them well, and, when wiped dry, rub them with flour to absorb any moisture that remains. Dip them in beat egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs. Fry them in plenty of oil, lard, or clarified dripping, making it quite hot. See No. 136. Take care in turning not to break them. If wanted very nice, they may be twice dipped in egg and crumbs, or biscuit-powder. Lay them on a sieve reversed to drain, and serve on a napkin. These delicate fish may also be stewed in wine, with a little vinegar and plenty of mixed peppers; or in cider: or they may be seasoned with salt, mace, and