478 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. three lemons. When cold, add pounded sugar to taste, the juice of the fruit, a large half pint of Sherry or Madeira, and the whisked whites of six eggs. Mix all well with enough liquid cochineal to tint a rose colour. Boil up without stirring for five minutes. Let it settle and cool; skim off the top, and run it through the jelly-bag till bright. 918. Blancmange. Eschew the reproach of English Blancmange being like shaving lather.'^ Pick, cut, and boil two ounces of isinglass for a quarter of an hour in a quart of milk or sweet cream, with the thin rind of a small lemon, sugar to taste, and a blade of mace. Blanch, split, and pound six bitter almonds, and two dozen sweet ones, with a little rose-water, or plain water, to prevent their oiling, and stir this paste gradually into the hot milk. Strain through a fine sieve into a basin, and let it settle for a good while, that the sediment may fall. Pour it again clear off from the sediment, and fill tlie moulds. It is sometimes difficult to take out, and dipping the mould in hot water destroys the fine marble-like surface. Rub the mould with a towel dipped in hot water, raise the jelly from the edges with a fruit-knife, and then use the fingers to get it out. Garnish with croutons of red jelly or flowers. 919. Blancmange as in France.—Make the stock of the jelly of calves' feet well blanched, or of white fish, as skate, or of feet of poultry. Season it with lemon-peel and cori- ander-seeds. In other respects make it as above; but use as little isinglass as possible. Our English blancmange is, in fact, just almond-cream. But we have a variety of blanc- manges which, except in the name, differ little from our creams of fresh and preserved fruits. 919^. Irish Moss makes a frugal blancmange; but it is at best a poor substitute for prepared gelatine, isinglass, or fresh jelly of calves' feet. Soak an ounce of moss twelve hours or more. Drain, and boil it in a pint and a half of milk for half an hour, with sugar and cinnamon to taste, stirring it to prevent sticking. Strain it into a mould. It is recommended for invalids and delicate persons. Trifle. 920. An elegant Trifle.—Whisk, early in the morning, or the day before you make the Trifle^ a quart of good cream,