LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, ETC. 521 add syrup to taste, two ounces of fresh orange-peel, four of lemon-peel, and a few bruised cloves. Infuse for ten days, and filter. 1059. Creme Orange^ a deMcious Cordial.—Over a dozen oranges, sliced, pour three quarts of rectified spirit, and a pint of orange-flower-water. Close the vessel carefully, and in ten days add five pounds of clarified syrup, a quart of water, and tincture of saffron enough to colour; close the vessel again, and in a fortnight strain off the liquor through a jelly-bag; when it has settled, pour it from the lees and bottle it.—Ohs. The lees of liqueurs make an excellent addition to plain puddings or pudding sauces and cakes for which spirits are ordered. 1060. Creme d^Absinthe^ hy M. Beauvilliers^ Receipt.— " Take in the proportions of tAvelve pints (old measure) of French brandy and two of water; a small handful of fresh wormwood, or a large half-ounce of the dried herb, a quarter- ounce of cinnamon, and a drachm of mace. Infuse for some days, and, if convenient, distil the compound. If not, infuse in a warm place for a fortnight, strain the liquor, and add a pound of sugar made into clear syrup, with five pints of water."—Ohs. This liqueur^ or a glass of Madeira or of rum, forms the coupe'de-milieu at a knowing French dinner, and, by its stimulating bitter, enables the gourmand to renew the flagging contest. Imitation of the Swiss Kirchwasser.—Take geans and cherries—morellas are best. Bruise them and pound the kernels. For every twenty pints of fruit when bruised add five pints of water and two of brandy or flavour- less whisky. Infuse for a fortnight. Strain off the liquor, and put the sediment in a press, as it contains much of the strength of the fruit and kernels. Pass the liquor through the still twice or thrice till strong enough, or merely filter. 1061. Com^mon Ratafia.—Take an ounce of bruised nut- megs, a half-pound of bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, and a grain of ambergris, well rubbed with sugar in a mortar; infuse in two quarts of proof-spirit in a warm place for two weeks, and filter. 1062. Red Ratafia.—Six pounds of the black-heart cherry, one of small black cherries or geans, and two of raspberries and strawberries. Bruise the fruit, and when it has stood fcjome time, drain off the juice, and to every pint add four