CHAP. y. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 476 N.B.—If there is any doubt of the jelly not keeping shape, add a little melted isinglass to the stock, which also helps to clear the jelly.—Ohs. This jelly may be made of cow-heels, or a proportion of them; and flavoured with many things, some of them cheap substitutes for what is ordered above. Home-made noyeau^ or ginger-wine^ may be substituted for Madeira, or less wine may be used, and a little citric acid or verjuice does for part of the lemon-juice. Some very great economists even substitute porter or ale for wine, and flavour with coriander-seeds, allspice, cinnamon, and cloves. Finely- flavoured mild ale is indeed an excellent substitute, but it must not be much hopped: a stick of cinnamon is often added to the lemons. 910. Madeira-Wine-Jelly.—Make this precisely as calves'- feet-jelly, but add the Madeira wine and a glass of brandy after the jelly is clarified; and as this diminishes the strength of the jelly, a little clarified isinglass to give firmness. The philosophers of the stove allege that jellies broken, i. e. roughed^ eat better than those in shape, the admission of air (oxygen ?) heightening the flavour. What is left of a broken shape will, roughed^ fill glasses. — Ohs. Besides the prepared gelatines, jelly is now sold in bottles ; ready for melting and moulding. Set the bottle in hot water, to dissolve the con- tents, pour this into the mould, adding what wine, spirits, and flavouring ingredients are considered necessary. It is never very bright. 911. Orange-Jelly.—Take twenty oranges; divide and squeeze them, as in making orange-marmalade. Infuse the rind of six in a basin with boiling water. Clarify a pound and a quarter of sugar, and when it has reached the second degree put in the strained juice, and the strained infusion of the rind. Let it come to the point of boiling, but not boil. Skim it, and run it through a jelly-bag. If the oranges are too ripe, use a fourth-part bitter oranges, or a couple of lemons, with their rind infused. Add clarified isinglass. First try the jelly in a small mould, then fill the moulds.— Ohs. The colour should be a clear topaz; a few blades of saffron will improve it. It may need more sugar. 912. Lemon-Jelly.—Make this exactly as the above, but use more sugar. Much less fruit may do, and part of the rind may be saved, rubbed off on sugar, for other purposes.