CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 368 garlic and fillets of anchovies; roast it, and serve with Spanish or garlic-sauce. If for English palates, first blanch the garlic in several waters, until it becomes mellow.—See from No. 467 to 477. 645. Cotelettes d la Souhise, Souhise Mutton-Cutlets,— Cut chops from the ribs, or cutlets from the leg, rather thick than otherwise. Trim off the superfluous fat, and sweat them in a stewpan in strong gravy or butter-sauce, with green onions, parslej, pepper, and salt. When thus cooked, take out the herbs, and reduce the sauce nearly to a glaze. Drain the cutlets. Dish them very hot with the sauce in the middle, and a dozen small onions around, cooked as directed, No. 262. — Obs, Souhise-cutlets used to be larded, and braised in bacon with all sorts of herbs; but since fatten- ing sheep and other animals became better understood, there has been a considerable revolution on the side of refinement even in French cookery. The cutlets may be served with French beans, or cucumbers. 646. Cotelettes d Vltalienne and au Naturel.—These are nearly the same. Cut, trim, and dip the chops in butter and bread crumbs. Broil them a little. Put pepper and salt over them, then butter and crumbs again, and broil till ready. Press out the fat between folds of hot paper, and serve with Brown Italian-sauce, 647. Cotelettes d la Minute^ or in their Juiee^ for Dejeuners d la fourchette,—Take rather thin slices from the gigot, as in carving a roast leg. Put them into a thin-bottomed fryingpan in which is hot butter. Turn them continually. Keep them hot in a dish by the fire; and put into the pan a little gravy and a few chopped herbs, stewed as for Venetian cutlets. No. 642; give this a toss, and skim and serve it round the hot cutlets. 648. Rognons de Mouton^ or Mutton-Kidneys.—These are also served at the Dejeuner d la Fourchette. Skin and split a dozen kidneys without wholly separating them. Pin them out with small wire skewers to keep them open; rub them with a little salt and pepper; dip them in butter, and broil first the inside, that, when turned on the grill to be finished, the gravy may be preserved. Dish on a hot dish, and lay a very little chopped blanched parsley and butter over each. —Obs, In France these are also dressed as a mince, stewing