524 CHAP. I.—LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. pleasant, and in quality so similar to Verder or milk-punch, Norfolk-puncli, etc., that it is unnecessary to give any oilier receipt for tliese compounds than the rhyming one sub- joined. 1068. Glasgow-Punch.—From LocJchart's Peter^s Letters. —^'The sugar being melted with a little cold water, the artist squeezed about a dozen lemons through a wooden strainer, and then poured in water enough almost to fill the bowl. In this state the liquor goes by the name of sherbet, and a few of the connoisseurs in his immediate neighbour- hood were requested to give their opinion of it—for in the mixing of the sherbet lies, according to the Glasgow creed, at least, one-half of the whole battle. This being approved by an audible smack from the lips of the umpires, the rum was added to the beverage, I suppose, in something about the proportion from one to seven. Last of all, the maker cut a few limes, and running each section rapidly round the rim of his bowl, squeezed in enough of this more delicate acid to flavour the whole composition. In this consists the true tour-de-maitre of the punch-maker." Glasgow-Punch should be made of the coldest spring water, newly taken from the spring. The acid ingredients above mentioned will suffice for a very large bowl.—See Regents Punch, No. 1077. Tea-Punch, note p. 528. 1069. Punch d la Romaine.—Make a good lemon-ice (which see), as for a dessert, or take any left. To one quart of the ice put the whites of three eggs, well beaten, and add rum and brandy till the ice liquefies. The propor- Clear the sugar in near half a pint of spring water, In the neat silver- saucepan you bought for your daughter. Then the fourth of a pint you must fully allow Of new milk, made as warm as it comes from the cow. Put the rinds of the lemons, the milk, and the syrup, In a jar with the rum, and give them a stir up— A fuU quart of old rum (French brandy is better, But we ne'er in receipts should stick close to the letter); And then to your taste you may add some perfume, Goa-stone, or whatever you like in its room. Let it stand thus ten days, but remember to shake it; And the closer you stop it, the richer you make it. Then filter through paper, 'twill sparkle and rise, Be as soft as your lips, and as bright as your eyes. Last, bottle it up, and, believe me, the Vicar Of E himself never drank better liquor. In a word, it excels, by a million of odds. The nectar your sister presents to the gods!"