534 CHAP. I. LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. good loaf-sugar bruised and dissolved. Stir the whole well in the tub or vat, and throw a blanket over the vessel, which is proper in making all wines, unless you wish to slacken the process of fermentation. Stir the ingredients occasionally, and in three days strain off the liquor into a cask. Keep the cask full, and when the spiritous fermen- tation has ceased, add for every gallon of wine a half-pint of brandy or good silent whisky, and the same quantity of Sherry or Madeira. Bung up the cask very closely, cover- ing the bung with clay; when it clears, rack it carefully off, and rack it again if not quite bright. N.B. The fruit here should be rather under-ripe. A very excellent white currant wine may be made by this receipt, or a wine of white gooseberries and white currants mixed. Fruit-wines ferment spontaneously. 1097. Red Gooseberry Wine.—Take equal measure of water and bruised fruit, or more of the fruit if it be plentiful. To every gallon of the mixture add four pounds of loaf- sugar, and a quarter-pound of sliced red beetroot. When fermented and casked, add a quart of spirits for three gallons. 1098. British Rhenish,—To every gallon of fresh apple- juice, add two pounds of loaf-sugar. Boil and skim this till quite limpid. Strain it. Ferment it, and when the head flattens, rack it off clear, and tun it. Next season rack it off again; add a pint of brandy to every three gallons.—Ols, This is a highly-reputed wine, but we have no actual experience of its qualities. 1099. Red Currant Wine—To twenty Scotch pints of water put thirty-six Scotch pints or more of red currants, and one pint of raspberries. When these have fermented, add twenty pounds of good sugar, and after the wine is casked, two pints (if you choose) of brandy. This will make eighteen gallons of wine. N.B. The Scotch pint is about two quarts. Eed tartar in fine powder, and a pound and a half of sliced red beetroot, may be added to the above to deepen the colour. The skins of the black currant boiled, and the liquid strained and used as part of the water, we have found to answer better than beet for deepening the colour of the dark-red home-made wines. 1100. A cheap Wine of mixed Fruit—Take equal mea-