596 CHAP. IV. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. jug or other small vessel filled with Bath-brick dust or fine sand, which may be kept compact by a mixture of damp moss. Clean between the prongs with a piece of leather tied to a stick; wipe off all dust, and rub them up. Lay knives and forks not in daily use before the fire when cleaned, and wrap each up separately in paper. A compact and comprehensive knife-board has lately been introduced. 1240. To Clean Plate and Plated Articles. — Clean the plate very well, using a sponge, with soap-ley and boiling water, and brushing all the carved places. Dry and rub with plate-powder, hartshorn- powder, or better, the very finest whiting either wetted with spirits or dry. Polish with the hand and soft leather. The longer plate is rubbed the brighter it will look. Brush off the powder carefully from all carved places. Plated goods should be kept in thick brown paper, in a box, and the interstices filled up with dried bran, never be allowed to get damp nor dirty, nor be rubbed more than can be avoided. Spirit of wine, or strong spirits, is the best thing to .clean them with. When candlesticks are smeared with wax or grease, do not scrape, but pour boiling water on the parts before cleaning them. Have brushes of soft texture and different sizes for plate. 1241. To Clean Pewter Vessels and Tin Covers.—Keep these always free of damp by wiping inside and drying them before the fire after they are used. Polish with the finest whiting and sweet oil, not water. 1242. Directions for Cleaning Britannia-Metal Goods.—Take a piece of fine woollen cloth; upon this put as much sweet oil as will prevent its rubbing dry;—with this rub them well on every part, then wipe them smartly with a soft dry linen cloth until they are quite clean, and rub them up with soft wash-leather and whiting. This simple method will preserve the colour as long as the articles endure. — Ohs. Washing them in boiling water and soap, just before they are rubbed with wash-leather and whiting, would take off the oil effectually, and make the carving look brighter. 1243. To Preserve Gilding on Picture-Frames^ etc.—In summer it may be covered with slips of gold-coloured tissue-paper, or gold- coloured leno. Never rub gilding. Use the bellows and a long soft hair-brush; or, if this will not do, a piece of wadding or cotton-wool. Frames properly gilt will, however, stand cleaning with hot spirits of turpentine, applied with sponge. The whole frame or lustre may in the fly months be covered with gold-coloured leno. 1244. To Clean Looking-Glasses and Plate-Glass.—Wsish. with warm water and sponge; then wash with spirits, and dust the glass with powder-blue in a rag, and rub it up with a piece of soft calico, and afterwards with an old silk handkerchief. 1245. To Wash Wine-Decanters.—Use lukewarm water, a few bits of soap, and a little pearl-ashes, with sponge tied to the end of a stick to rub off the crust that forms on the glass. Rinse and dry them thoroughly. If stoppers are fixed, dip a towel in hot water, and wrap it round the neck of the bottles. Repeat this till they loosen;* or * We owe this direction to Dr Hope's Lectures on Chemistry to the ladies of Edinburgh, yet it is not infallible.