CULINARY TERMS. 547 Crumb, to, to strew with or dip meat, fish, etc., in bread-crumbs. Cidlis, the French Coulis, a rich gravy, the basis of sauces. Cutlets or CoteJettes, slices of veal, mutton, venison, or salmon, thinner and smaller than chops, and generally without bone. Daubes, an order of French dishes dressed en Daube, p. 372. Dejeuner a la Fourcliette, or fork-breakfast, a breakfast at which the use of forks is required from solid dishes being served. Dormants, said of dishes which remain from the beginning to the end of a repast, as the cold pies, hams, or moulded or potted meats or ornamental things placed down the middle of a table at large enter- tainments. Dormant, a, a centre-dish which is not removed, and which is used by the French, who never change the tablecloth. Drappit Eggs, eggs poached in sauce, No. 737, p. 404. En Compote, things served in syrup, generally fresh fruits, pp. 389, 496. En Couronne, things dished in form of a crown. En Chemise, fruits rolled in sugar, or frosted with it, p. 498. En Ci^oustade, said of things served in crusts, or crust-shapes, p. 343. En Miroton, hashed or re-warmed slices of meat, arranged as de- scribed. No. 623. N. B.—In like manner French dishes are said to be a la Maitre Hotel, a VEspagnole, a la Venetienne, etc., from the sauces with which they are dressed or served. En Fapillote, generally said of every thing served in twisted paper, as salmon and mutton cutlets Maintenon, Nos. 445, 474. Entrees, the French term for their first-course dishes. Entrees de Desserte, dishes made of cold left meats. Entremets, the French term for second-course dishes. Fillets, things cut sharply into strips, as breasts of poultry, fish, French beans, and many other things. No. 682'^. Forcemeat or Farcemeat,—Stuffing in general, whether for meats, poultry, fish, balls for soup^ pies, or sweet dishes. Force, to, or Farce, to stuff" with forcemeat. Garnish, or Garniture, any thing useful, relishing, or ornamental, served around or along with dressed meats. Garnish, to, to decorate, to ornament. Gigot, the French and Scottish term for the leg of mutton or lamb, as distinguished from the haunch. Glaze, the rich juices of meat thickened by fast boiling and evapora- tion to a jelly or robb with which to glaze meat. Glaze, to, to dry and cover meats with glaze, p. 238. Godiveau, a French forcemeat, p. 384. Grathi, a French forcemeat, generally of poultry,—also the process of letting moistened bread-crumbs, etc. catch and crisp in a dish over ^ embers. Gravij, generally in England understood to mean the juices of cooked meat, and also strong stock. Haricot, so called from the French word for beans, with which the dish was originally made; now often understood of any ragout or thick stew of beef, mutton, or veal, cut in pieces, and dressed with abundant vegetables and roots.