376 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. pets. They may be strewed with crumbs, and browned with a salamander. They are considered genteel^ and are certainly frugal where cookery is all the cost. 672. Salmi de PerdreauXj Salmi of Partridges,—Par-roast three or four partridges kept till they have taken a little fumet When cold, skin and carve them. Put them into a small stewpan, with a bit of lemon-peel, four eschalots, a few bits of dressed ham, seasoning-herbs of all kinds that you like, and a dessertspoonful of peppercorns, a little cay- enne, with the trimmings of the partridges, a half-pint of Espagnole^ and two glasses of Madeira. Let this simmer for an hour very gently. Dish the birds, and strain the skim- med sauce hot over them. Serve fried bread with the salmi, which must be very hot and high seasoned to be good for any thing. 673. Partridge Salmi, Sportsman^s Fashion.—Put cold roasted, or, if done on purpose, half-roasted partridges, skinned and carved, into a saucepan with a small glass of eating-oil, a large glass of wine, pepper, salt, cayenne, and the grate and juice of lemon. When just heated through, serve with grilled crusts.—See Nos. 532, 533, 550. 674. Salmi of Cold Wild Duck or Teal Duck.—Make a sauce of veal-gravy seasoned with cayenne. Simmer the trimmings of the duck in this, and then put in the cold roasted duck, carved and skinned, and simmer till hot. Lift the meat into a stewpan to keep hot. Skim the sauce, and strain it over the meat, adding first, if needful, more season- ings. Squeeze a bitter orange over the sauce, and serve the Salmi very hot.—See Nos. 531, 533. Salmis are favourite dishes with epicures, both on account of the excellence of their constituent parts, and their elaborate and piquant com- position. They are in fact a species of moist devils. For thorough-bred English palates more hot seasonings will be requisite than are used by the French; and this must be attended to. 674^. To Boil and Peel Eggs.—Boil them for fifteen min- utes ; drop them into cold water; roll them below your hand and the shell will come off like any other mould. Plovers^ or Sea-birds' Eggs.—Boil fifteen minutes; serve hot on a napkin, or cold, laid in moss.—See No. 566 to 573.