106 CHAP. III. ROASTING. careful to anoint the cracTcling^ or if it is covered with beat white of egg, bakes very well. His ears and tail must be put in buttered papers, if you would hope ever to see them return from the oven. Geese and ducks may be baked, if not old and rank ; in which case, they must either be first parboiled or sweated in roasting before the fire, to overcome the flavour. A leg of mutton, with potatoes peeled, and an onion shred, makes, when baked, an excellent plain family dish, the mucilage of the potatoes combines so kindly with the fat of the meat.* The noble Sirloin disdains to be cribbed in the oven; but a rump of heef spiced and salted for a few days, washed, highly seasoned, and baked with plenty of butter in a deep covered vessel, eats shorty and is esteemed a delicacy. A hare or rabbit may be haked^ allow- ing plenty of butter in the dish, and putting a large piece or a rich stuffing into the inside of the animal. Herrings^ sprats^ salmon^ haddocks^ and eels^ may all be highly sea- soned and baked with advantage. Bakers' ovens have one great drawback;—they are accused of being sad suckers in, indeed real sponges for gravy ; so that they largely indem- nify the bakers' apprentices for the trouble saved to the cook. Besides, meat is seldom got home in season from those wholesale receptacles for all manner of joints; and about the dinner hour, what dismay is often created by the face of the maid,— " Who comes with most terrible news from the baker. That insolent sloven! Who shut out the pasty when shutting his oven." Hams are often soaked and haked^ where they are used in great quantity, and where the object is to cut thin.-j- Fish, * We have doubly admired this homely dish, the happy artisan's social Sunday dinner, since reading the life of the poet Crabbe. f A few years since, the proprietor of Vauxhall Gardens lost his cele- brated carver of hams, when he advertised for a new operator in that department of harmless anatomy. One of notoriety applied, when the worthy proprietor asked him how many acres he could cover with one fine ham ; upon which he replied,. " He did not stand upon an acre or two more or less, but could cover the whole of his gardens with one ham." On this he was instantly hired, and told he was the very fellow for this establish- ment, and to cut away for the benefit of the concern and of mankind at large. To grow a shoulder or leg of mutton.—This art is said to be well under- Stood by London and other bakers. Have a very small leg or shoulder ; change it upon a customer for one a little larger, and that upon another for one larger still, and by the dinner-hour, you will have a heavy excellent joint grown out of your original very small one.—P. T.