PICKLES. 2G9 hashes, cold meats, and sauces; a few of them are merely ornamental as garnishings. The only general rules that can be given for the proper and safe preparation of pickles are, to have sound vegetables, or fruits not over-ripe, and gathered on a dry day. Let the things to be pickled be carefully trimmed and wiped, washing only such things as are to be steeped or parboiled previous to pickling. It is miserable economy to employ bad vinegar for pickling, or bad sugar for preserving, or to use either in stinted quantities,—and both the syrup in which fruits are preserved, and the vinegar used for pickles, may afterwards be serviceable to the cook. Pickle-liquor can be at all times conveniently disposed of in seasoning gravies or sauces, or as an accompaniment to cold meat;—the pickle of cucumbers, walnuts, mushrooms, and onions, is especially useful. The vinegar used for pickles, if not boiled, ought to be made scalding hot; but remember that no fermented liquid can be long boiled without loss of strength. The spiceries used in pickling are so well bestowed that we give no rule for the quantity, except that it should not be so great as to overcome the natural flavour of the article pickled: for pickles, like every thing else, should be what their name imports,—either Onion or Cucumber^ etc., and not a hodge- podge of conflicting flavours. Pickles are most safely pre- pared in stoneware vessels; but they must, at all events, be kept in small glass or stone jars well stopped, and the corks or bungs wrapt round with bladder or leather, with an upper covering of the same, or of sheet-lead if they are to be long kept. Or, when well corked, let them be dipped in bottle- rosin. India rubber capsules are now often used over the cork. They are not equal to bladder. The corks or bungs may be left rather loose for two days, and the jars filled up to the neck with scalded vinegar before being finally closed, as a great deal of the liquor will be absorbed at first by the pickles. When the pickles are used, boil up the liquor with a little salt and fresh spice, and bottle and cork it for future use, either as a sauce, or to pickle nasturtiums and gherkins, where a fine colour is no object. To have green pickles of a bright green^ and yet safe, is no easy matter; and there is now at the most refined tables a wholesome distrust of pickles of too brilliant a green. It is, however, very pos- sible to preserve the colour tolerably bright, and yet prepare