367 MADE-DISHES OF VEAL AND MUTTON. round, and three inches diameter, from the fillet. Put them into the stewpan with butter and ham, onions, parsley, carrot, and herbs. Warm in stock a slice of cold smoked tongue for each cutlet. When the cutlets are enough done, take them out; boil down the stock to a glaze, and put them back. Glaze the slices of tongue. Dish one slice on each cutlet, shaping them together. Dish them in a round form. Put a little Espagnole into the stewpan, and a bit of butter; warm in it the remains of the boiled tongue nicely minced, and pour this sauce into the centre of the dish.—N. B. Fillets of cold roast fowls or turkey are excellent dressed with tongue in this way.— See Nos. 48, 445, 446. 641. Cotelettes au Jambon.—These are precisely the same as the former, only ham (the prime slices) is used instead of tongue. 642. Veal Cutlets with Fine Herhsj or d la Venetienne.— Chop a handful of mushrooms, two eschalots, a little parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Stew these in rasped bacon and butter; when done, put in, and stew the cutlets over a very slow fire. Add white pepper and salt. Skim off the fat carefully. Put in a large spoonful of sauce tournee or white roux. Thicken with yolks of eggs beat with a little cream. Add the juice of a lemon, which is proper for all dishes made of veal, and a little cayenne. So are sorrel and tomatas, etc. 643. Loin of Dressed Veal d la Bechamel.— A loin of veal, when used as a remove^ very often comes back from the table untouched, or with very little taken off it. Make a mince of the fillet or inside of the loin. Cover the loin with buttered paper, and warm it in a Dutch oven. Place it above the stewed mince, and serve with a white sauce, or Bechamel. 644. Mutton.* Gigot d la Gasconne, or Leg of Mutton Gascon Fashion, —This is a dish of very high gout, and seldom now seen, but it still has devoted admirers. Lard a leg of mutton with * Families in the country, and those who kill "their own mutton," depend so much upon this favourite food, that it is impossible to know too many good ways of dressing it; though, when all is done, none can surpass a roast haunch or boiled leg; hotch-potch; or boiled scrag with onion- sauce ; our family curry, or a well-grilled mutton-chop.—P. T.