379 FISH. 678^. Petites Bouchees d la Eeine.—Make the cases as small vols-au-vent J but very upright and rounds and cut the paste, seven times rolled out, with a fluted cutter two inches wide. It must, for these preparations, be the very richest puff-paste. Bake the vols-au-ventj having first glazed them, and marked the cover. When baked, put to them a little rich Bechamel sauce, which the paste must have time to hn- bibe, then fill with a mince of two parts breast of chicken and one part tongue, seasoned with salt, white pepper, and juice of lemon. The more sauce they imbibe, the more delicious the mouthful is. See Savour^/ Fatties, No. 819. French Dishes of Fish * 679. Court Bouillon for dressing Fish.—Where fish is boiled every day, or in large establishments, this is a very useful broth, as well as in Catholic families during Lent. Season an imperial gallon of water with salt, three carrots, a bunch of parsley, or roots of parsley and green onions, four eschalots, two sprigs of thyme, basil, two bay-leaves, a half-ounce of peppercorns, and a few cloves. Stew and strain this. When you use it, add wine or vinegar. It will answer repeatedly by being boiled up; and the fish boiled in it on successive days will enrich it. A piece of butter may be put in at first. It will form a good basis for maigre soups and sauces to fish. This is also called eau de sel, 680. Court Bouillon for Fish dressed au lieu.—Take the same herbs as above, but less in quantity, and fry them a little in butter. Over this pour two bottles of white and one of red wine, and a little water. In this stew the fish, nicely cleaned. This rich and expensive marinade will do repeatedly; water to be added to it when again used.—Ohs, We consider this receipt useless where fish are to be got fresh. Fish dressed au bleu are eaten with oil and vinegar, mustard, etc. 681. Trout or Pike d la Genevoise.—Clean the fish, but do * Fish is not so well dressed in Paris as in London or at the Hague. The cooking au bleu, a la Genevoise, etc., is in fact practised chiefly to dis- guise the want of that first quality of all fish, which les poissons equivoques of Paris rarely possess—/res/mess. The French, however, re-dress fish better, or at least more variously, than we do, as in vol-au-vent, and as ris- soles, salpi^ons, but above all, au gratin^ No. 688.