122 CHAPTER VI. BEOTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. C'est la soupe qui fait le soldat. French Proverb, Soup has been aptly termed the vestibule to a banquet. We call it the safest foundation to the principal repast of the day, whether it be a Cottage or a Cabinet dinner. With this belief we hold as maxims, that the French take the lead of all European people in soups and broths; that the Scotch rank second, the Welsh next; and that the English, as a nation, though with many honourable excep- tions, are at the very bottom of the scale; and, farther, that if soup be the foundation of a good dinner, it is equally true that good beef is the best foundation of the best soup. Whether brown or white, plain or rich, the basis may still be beef,—fresh-killed, juicy, mature beef, and soft pure water.* * " We of Scotland," said Winterblossom, "probably owe our superi- ority in this department to our long and close alliance with that nation which has ever been most profoundly skilled in the mysteries of the soup- pot. That Scotland is indebted to France for the proficiency she has attained in cookery, is abundantly evident from the culinary nomenclature of the nation. Kitchen—Cuisine—the word with us comprehends every kind of viand or preparation which may add to the relish of the coarse cake, and the decoction of oatmeal and coleworts, which formed the staple of the dinner meal. A peasant's butter, cheese, fish, meat, and so forth, are still named his ' Mtchen.^ Then we have the Jiachi—the soup Lorraine^ and a la Heine, the veal Flory—or Florentine pie—our hroclie and turn-hrocJie, and our culinary adage, ' Hunger is gude hitchen.^ "—" If you go on at this rate, you will soon reduce your nation to their original brcse. and haggis,'* said Jekyll ; "for you recollect that your skill in cabbage and coleworts is attributed to Cromwell's soldiers." " Little or mickle," put in Mistress Dods, a true-bred Border Scot, who would not yield an inch of the kitchen-floor to France or England, " we mak' better use o' what little skill is accorded to us, it's like. I have heard them say that should know, and that's the Nawbob himsel' there, that there is thousands upon thousands o' working-men's houses in Lunon whar they ne'er saw a broth-trencher, let-a-be a pot o' fat kail:—Cauld, comfortless, wasterfu', gude-for-naething gangings on, for man, wife, and wean. Their roast joint,—set them up!—scouthered to a cinder in a baker's oven,—a hunger and a burst,—dear bought at first, and a short outcome for a working-man's family, compared with two or three pots-fu' o' gude barley broth from the same joint of meat." " Even too true, Luckie," interrupted the Nabob; " this must be eared for. The Scots may, or did fail in a great dinner, Doctor,—no doubt of it;