BILLS OF FARE. 60 culinary preparations, called entrees de dessert^ or made-dishes of left things, are served even at grand dinners. At Dinners of any pretension, it is understood that the first course shall consist of soups and fish, removed by boiled poultry, ham, or tongue, roasts, stews, etc.; and of vegeta- bles, with a few made-dishes, or entrees^ as ragouts, curries, hashes, cutlets, patties, fricandeaus, etc., in as great variety as the number of dishes permits; as a white and a brown, or a clear and a stew soup.* For the second course, or entre- mets^ where there are only removes and not a third, roasted poultry or game at the top and bottom, with dressed vege- tables, omelets, macaroni, jellies, creams, salads, preserved fruit, and all sorts of sweet things and pastry, are employed, —endeavouring to give an article of each sort, as a jelly and a cream. This is a more sensible arrangement than three coic7^seSj which are attended with so much additional trouble both to the guests and servants. In France, where the table- cloth is never withdrawn, the dessert forms the Third Course. But whether the dinner be of two or three courses, it is managed nearly in the same way; and for the advantage of servants, as well as of their juvenile employers, a few partic- ulars may be detailed. In the centre, there is generally some ornamental article as an epergne with flowers, real or artificial, or a decorated salad, or cold raised game-pie. An ornamental stand, containing cruets and pepper dishes, if plainer, is equally appropriate for a small party. Two soups, a white and a brown, or a mild and a high- seasoned, should occupy the top and bottom, and be re-placed by two dishes of fish, dressed in different ways. These, with the decanted wines drunk during dinner, form the First Course. When there are rare French or Rhenish wines, they are placed in the original bottles, in ornamented wine- vases, between the centre-piece and the top and bottom dishes; or if four kinds, they are ranged round the plateau. If only one choice bottle, at a bachelor tete-a-tete dinner, it may be placed in a vase in the centre. The Second Course, if there are three, consists of roasts, * In some nohle private eating-houses, it is now customary to hand round oysters before the soup, as a whet or preparative. This is a Parisian cus- tom, which we cannot admire. In stylish modern dinners, the liors cVceuvres and Jlying-dishes {assiettes volantes) appear usually during the First Course, and before the remoi?es,—although latitude is allowed in this matter.