MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 597 better, drop a little sweet oil on the necks of the bottles, and leave them before the fire to expand, when the stopper will loosen. 1246. To Clean Japanned Goods.—Wash with sponge, using soap and warm water, and rub up with a dry cloth. If the things still look greasy, dust a little powder-blue, fine whiting, or flour, on them, and rub them again. Oil will take marks out of paper trays. Tea- Urns ought to be well dried, rubbed when brought from the table, and kept covered with a woollen bag. 1247. To get Oil out of Wood and Stone.—Mix fuller's earth with soap-lees, and scour the places repeatedly with this.—N.B. Fuller's earth does well for cleaning very dirty passage and stair carpets. 1248. To take Rust out of Fire-irons. - Cover with sweet oil, rub- bing it hard in, and next day rub with powder of unslacked lime till the rust is removed, or emery will do very well. Eub with a spongy piece of wood. 1249. To Clean China and Glass.—Use pearl ashes or fuller's earth in fine powder, rinse in fair water, and polish the things well. 1250. To tahe Stains out of Mourning Dresses.—Boil a handful of fig-leaves in two quarts of water, till reduced to a pint. Strain and apply this with sponge. Doubtful. 1250 2. To Clean hlacJc and dark Silk Dresses.—Pick them out, soak over night in cold water. Wash out next day; fold and press, not wring the moisture out; wipe off what remains, and iron on the wrong side; or, lay the silk on a table and scour with gall dissolved in water; rinse and hang on lines, allowing the silk to drip nearly dry. Then iron or mangle it. 1251. An excellent Shoe-hlacking.—Eight ounces of ivory-black, six of treacle, two of spermaceti or sweet oil, and three pints of coarse vinegar or alegar; a quarter-ounce vitriolic acid may be added. These things must be well mixed. The vinegar made hot should be poured over the other ingredients, or the composition may better be boiled, and the vitriol added afterwards, to prevent accidents. 1252. Liquid Japan Blacking.—Mix with four ounces of ivory- black a large spoonful of sweet oil; then put to these two ounces of sugar and a little vinegar; make a paste of the blacking. Add a half-ounce of sulphuric and the same of muriatic acid, and nearly a pint of vinegar. Mix them well. With less acid the polish may not be so bright, but it will be safer for the leather. 1253. Scalds and Burns.—The cook is too often exposed to accidents of this kind. Plunge the part instantly into cold water, which renew- as often as it gets heated. If the leg or arm is scalded, the stocking or sleeve can be cut up without touching the injured part, and gently removed, as the instant application of water will have prevented blistering or the stocking sticking to the skin. There are many remedies, and good ones, for burns; as Goulard's Lotion, oil of tur- pentine, spirit of wine, and vinegar. And in every house there is generally wool, or cotton-wool, while the cook has her dredging-box. Dredge the injured part thickly with flour, which is perhaps, after water has allayed the pain, the best remedy, as the flour may be tied on with a cloth, and left till the new skin forms.—N.B. Every cook,