PAN-KAIL PLUM-FORRIDGE. 411 cayenne to the mince if you choose, and serve hot under the browned head, with brain-cakes and scollops of liver laid alternately around it. This dish is not nearly so savoury where the neck is not left on the head as it is in Scotland. The neck cooked as above is one of the most delicate pre- parations of lamb. 749. Leek-porridgeJ^—Make this as cock-a-leekie, and thicken with toasted or fried bread. Prunes are sometimes put into this composition. The custom is nearly obsolete. —See No, 726 and note, 750. Pan-Kail^ a Maigre Soup.—Mince cabbage, savoys, or Grerman greens; boil them in water, thickened with oat- meal, and add a good piece of butter or dripping, salt, and pepper. Kail of a better kind is made by parboiling and mashing the greens, putting them to strong hot pot-liquor, and thickening the soup with bread or pounded biscuit. Both should be a rather thick pottage. 751. Plum-Porridge,—Boil ten pounds of a shin for five hours in a gallon, or rather more, of water. Skim care- fully. Strain off the liquor, and put to it a piece of veal cut from the fillet. Soften the crumb of a penny loaf in the soup, and beat it smoothly. Thicken the soup with this, and put to it a half-pound of cleaned stoned raisins, and a half-pound of stoned prunes, a pound of currants well cleaned, and some pepper, mace, and grated nutmeg. When the fruit is soft, the dish is ready. A little more bread may be used, if greater consistence is wanted, and the veal may be omitted. Nearly obsolete. 751^. Breakfast Potatoes.—We must confess, that in Ire- land, and the Highlands and Isles of Scotland, our gorge has sometimes rebelled against the customary dish of potatoes at breakfast time; but the mashed potatoes of the former day, sliced and broiled, are an admirable accompaniment to broiled ham, a salt herring, or rizzared haddock. * The Leeli is one of tlie most honourable and ancient of pot-herbs. It is called ^ar excellence "the herb;" and learned critics assert that our word porridge or pottage is derived from the Latin porrus, a leeJc. " From Indus to Peru," the adoration of the garlic, onion, and leeh is universal. The leek is besides the badge of a high-spirited, honourable, and fiery nation—the Ancient Britons. In the old poetry of the Northern nations, where a young man would now be styled the flower, he was called " the leek of his family or tribe,"—an epithet of most savoury meaning.