SWEETMEATS AND PRESERVES. 489 Tinfoil, bladder, corks and rosin. India-rubber capsules, are each employed; but for ordinary family purposes we have found no method so neat and convenient as the following :— Shape papers the size of the pots or jars, but leaving them an inch and half larger, that they may tie and overlap the ledges. Brush these papers inside till thoroughly saturated, with beat white of egg: tie on while still moist. They will dry and collapse like bladder. Nothing, however, can more thoroughly exclude the air than bladder over corks, or double bladder. For preserving raw fresh fruits that are merely scalded, good corks dipt in bottle-rosin is effectual; and for preserved stone-fruit, melted suet, a thick layer, is sometimes poured over the paper. Presses lined with wood, shelves, pantry-drawers, or any place that is perfectly dry, and not too warm, are best for keeping preserves. Brass pans, scoured till brightly clean,* are still much used for making preserves ; but a vessel of double block-tin, or of iron very thickly tinned, or better enamelled, if kept for jellies and sweet things, answers very well, and is safer, particularly for the coarser jams, which, being generally made with a short allowance of sugar, require long boiling. Sweetmeats are best when quickly boiled,-j- that the watery parts may be driven off without a process continued so long as to injure the colour and flavour of the fruit. The shade of colour may be varied in many ways by using white currants to lighten, or black to deepen the colour, or by white or red raspberry-juice. Currant jellies may be made without boiling at all, by merely stirring the sugar finely beaten and sifted into the juice of the fruits, or what is termed worlced-cold» But though the flavour is preserved, they look muddy and eat harshly. It is necessary to have sieves, spoons with holes, and pans of different sizes, kept wholly for preserves and sweet dishes, as the least taint of other things will injure these delicate preparations. Sweetmeats and preserved fruits should not be papered for a day or two, and ought to be looked at several times during the first months; and if mouldiness gather on them, jellies and jams, and the syrup of preserves must be boiled over again, till the watery * Care about the vessels is particularly requisite, where it is usual, as in many English kitchens, to boil the fruit-juice very long before the sugar or syrap is added. f This, we believe, is a culinary heresy, but we avouch it. X 2