PUFF-PASTE. 421 less from the astonishment created at table, when it is dis- covered that the full plumaged swan, the boar's head, the haunch of mutton, or shoulder of lamb, are only sponge- cakes moulded into such preposterous forms: and that the mushrooms, etc., etc., with which they are garnished are but meringued sugar. Conceive a dried tongue, or mutton-cutlet, of Savoy cake! 770. To Make Different Pastes. For paste, a marble slab, or very smooth fine-grained stone is best: some use a large slate ; every thing should be nicely clean, and the temperature very cool, especially for pufF-paste, as the butter if soft spoils the work. It may be iced in warm weather. Let a young, clever cook-maid see paste actually made, though but once, and she will under- stand all our receipts.—See Nos. 712, 717. 771. The state of the oven should be particularly attended to. Almost every oven has a temperament of its own; and it should never be forgotten, that from the intense degree of heat, and the circumstance of the meat being cut down into small pieces, the process of baking is more rapid than either roasting or stewing, Pvff-paste requires a rather quick oven to make it rise light. Raised pie-paste must have a soaking oven; and paste glazed must have a rather slack oven, that the icing, if put on at first, be not scorched before the fruit is sufficiently baked. Till experienced, test the heat by putting in a bit of paste. A few general plain directions may be given • but if practice and observation are essential to the proper preparation of plain pie-crust, much more are they to the finer pastes, and the management of an oven. All pies to be eaten cold must be more highly seasoned than when hot. Fine crust for fruit should have egg and a little sugar, and some sorts, lemon grate or juice. It must not be handled much, and should be made in a room of cool temperature. Have a feather-brush to wipe off superfluous flour. Pastry-cutters and stamps of all kinds are bought in the shops. Ornaments of paste-foliage upon the edges of dressed dishes, and upon dressed hams, etc., are often appro- priate. To Ice^ see No. 1005. French Puff-paste of Beef-Suet—Prepare as above directed, and pound good dry suet in a mortar, with a spoonful of