132 CHAP. VI. ^BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. that time. When the stock is well tasted, strain it off. It will form a jelly. When to be used, take off the surface- fat, clear oft' the sediment, and put the jelly into a stew-pan nicely tinned; boil for a lialf-hour, and serve on a couple of rounds of a small French roll; or with macaroni pre- viously soaked, and stewed in some soup till perfectly soft; or rice or vermicelli. This is plain White Soup. It is raised to Lorraine soup as follows :—Take a half pound of sweet almonds, blanched (that is, scalded and the husks rubbed off in a cloth), the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and the skinned breast and white parts of a cold roast fowl; beat the almonds to a paste in a mortar, with a little water to prevent their oiling; mince very finely the fowl and eggs with some bread-crumbs. Add to this hash an English pint or more of the stock, a bit of lemon-peel, and a scrape of nutmeg; bring it to boil, and put to it a pint of boiling cream, and the rest of the stock. Let it be for a consider- able time on the very eve of boiling, that it may thicken, but take care it does not boil, lest the cream curdle. . Strain through a sieve. Two yolks of eggs beat may be substi- tuted for half the cream. 68. Potage a la Reine, or Victoria Soup, The fashionable White Soup, Take a couple of large or three small fat pullets; clean and skin them: take also two pounds or more of veal cut into pieces, and a half pound of lean ham ; put these to- gether into a very nice stew-pan, with a bunch of parsley, and moisten them with clear boiling veal broth. Let this stew softly for an hour; then soak in the broth the soft part of a penny roll; cut the flesh off the breasts and wings of the chickens; chop and poimd it to a paste in a mortar with the hard yolks of two eggs, the soaked crumbs, ten sweet almonds and three bitter, all blanched. Rub the compound into the soup; strain the whole; and add gradually a quart of sweet cream brought to boil by itself; boil it up, stirring till served. It may be further thickened, if needful, with arrow-root. The seasoning should be mild; and a bit of sugar is an improvement. Cow-heel or Calf's Feet make a good White Soup stock. Rabbits may be economically substituted for chickens, and shin of beef for veal.