GINGER AND TREACLE BEERS—BOTTLING LIQUORS. 539 times the quantity of cream of tartar this makes aerated ginger-beer.— See 1106. 11092. Superior Ginger-Beer,—Dr Pereira's Receipt.— White sugar, twenty pounds; lemon or lime juice, eighteen ounces; honey, one pound; white ginger bruised, twenty- two ounces; water, eighteen gallons. Boil the ginger [bruised] in three gallons of water for half an hour; then add the sugar, the juice, and honey, with the fifteen gallons of water reserved. Boil and strain. When cold, add the white of an egg and half an ounce of essence of lemons. In four days bottle it, and it will keep for months. Dr Pereira seems to forget fermentation. 1110. Common Ginger-Beer.—Make as above, but take a third less sugar (raw sugar will do), and no lemons nor brandy. Ferment for two days, and bottle for use. A little cayenne or allspice is a cheap substitute for part of the ginger. The above compositions are sometimes called Im- perial, Ginger-Pop, etc. 1111. Treacle-Beer, a Table-Beer.—Boil, for twenty minutes, four pounds of molasses, in from five to six gallons of soft water, with a handful of hops tied in a muslin bag, or a little extract of gentian. When cooled to 80°, add a pint of fresh beer-yeast, or from four to six quarts of fresh worts from the brewer's vat. Cover the beer (and all fer- menting liquids) with blankets or coarse cloths. Pour it from the lees and bottle it. You may use sugar for molasses, which is lighter. N.B.—This is a cheap and wholesome beverage. A little ginger may be boiled in it a half-hour, if the flavour is liked, instead of hops. On Bottling Liquors, and on Corks, Bottle-Wax, etc., etc. " The penny-wise and pound-foolish" principle is not shown in any department of domestic management more decidedly than in the purchase of corks. These should always be of the best cork-wood, whether for pickles, cat- sups, made-wines, or even the cheapest commodities. Bottles are best when new; but, if well kept and thoroughly cleaned, they will continue to answer quite well. They should always be washed when set away, and kept with the head down- most. Bottles that have contracted a bad smell may be