CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES 280 to be avoided, it is proper that Made-dishes should be savoury, or else piquant rather than insipid. We name many things Made-dishes, which French cooks term removes or flanks, Made-Dishes of Beef. See Chapters, Roasting^ Broiling^ and Frying Beef. 386. To Ragout or Braise a Rump or half Rump of Beef— Except for some particular occasion, a rump to be stewed should not be very large, nor above ten inches in thickness, unless it is salted a little. Cut out the bone neatly, and break it; and with that and what trimmings may be made in smoothing the meat, make a gravy, by boiling them up with onions, a carrot, and turnip, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Season the rump highly with Cook's pepper, Nos. 334, 335, and a little cayenne, and skewer and tie it firmly up with tape. Lay skewers in the bottom of a clean stewpot that will just hold the meat, and place the rump upon them, straining over it the gravy drawn from the bones. When it has simmered, closely covered, for an hour or more, turn it over, and put to it three carrots sliced, two turnips scooped the size of children's marbles; and in another half-hour onions sliced, and a glass of eschalot-vinegar, or plain vinegar, with minced eschalots, and more pepper if required. Keep the lid close the whole time; and before dishing, put in a large spoonful of catsup, and, if you like, another of made-mustard, with roux^ No. 254, or butter rolled in flour, to thicken the gravy. The rump may be dressed more highly by filling up the hole whence the bone is taken with a relishing forcemeat; egging, browning it before stewing, and putting wine to the sauce; which may also be enriched with sweetbreads or kernels, parboiled and cut into bits. It may be glazed^ and the gravy may be prepared with bacon.—Ohs. A rump, or rather part of one, salted for four days in summer, or a week in cold weather, washed and stewed plainly, is an economical as well as an excellent dish, whether for company or for family use. It may be divided diagonally, so as to skewer up neatly, or cut into three parts, and stewed in weak stock with roots as above. Skim the fat carefully off, and serve the soup, which will be very rich, on toasted sippets, and the meat by itself, either garnished with cut pickles, or better.