247 SAUCES FOR POULTRY AND GAME. very hot in a tureen.—Ohs. This is an elegant sauce for any sort of winged game. A French cook would use some of the thin rind or zest of the lemon, and less of the juice. 290. Pleydel's Sauce for Wild Duck, Teal, and Widgeons, —To a large quarter-pint of brown gravy, No. 257, put a glass of claret or port; pepper, salt, cayenne to taste, and a dessertspoonful of finely-shred eschalot. Make this hot, and pour it over the ducks.—Obs. In making this sauce, if for the oily, rank, and fishy-tasted water-fowl, made- mustard may be added, and a higher seasoning of eschalot and onion, with walnut pickle, or a little essence of anchovy. Wild geese, solan geese, mallards, etc., require a pungent sauce. 291. Dr Hunter's Sauce for cold Partridge, or cold Meat of any kind.—Eub down the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with salad-oil and vinegar; add a very little anchovy-liquor, cayenne pepper, salt, parsley, and eschalot, both chopped small. Ohs. This is a good extemporaneous sauce. It is excellent for cold lobster or crabs. 291^. Olive-Sauce for Ducks and Beef Steaks.—Carefully stone a quarter-pound of olives by paring the fruit round in ribbons, so that the olives may recover shape when stoned. Blanch them, and throw them into cold water, and let them soak till freshened, when stew slowly for a half-hour in a half-pint of brown gravy, No. 257. Add more gravy, if needed. A squeeze of lemon is sometimes added, but being disapproved of by those who like the native flavour of the olive, may be given at table. 291^. Chestnut-Sauce, White and Brown, for Turkey and Fowls.—Throw half a pound of fresh chestnuts, stripped of the outer rind, into boiling v/ater; scald for five minutes, and peel them. Stew them till quite tender in veal-gravy. No. 258, with a bit of lemon-peel, and rub them with the gravy through a hair-sieve, as if pulping pease. Season with white pepper and cayenne, and add a large glass of cream. Just boil up the sauce, stirring it till it boil, and serve. The Br own-Sauce is stewed in rich brown gravy, is more poig- nantly seasoned, and has no cream. 292. Redgill's Sauce for Stuhhle Goose, Boasted Pork, or Pork Chops, also called Dr Hunter's Sauce.—Make a