212 CHAP. VITI. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. relishing/arce, which must be thoroughly pounded. How- ever they are cooked, choose well-shaped tomatas. Dished with five round and two above, they make either a pretty dish or a garnish to stewed beef, boiled mutton or veal, and calf s head.—A Puree of tomatas is made by dividing, pick- ing out the seeds, and boiling them with good gravy, an onion or two, pepper, and cayenne, pulping and mixing down the puree with sufficient cream (or milk) and rice-flour. Tomatas are also used both in sauces and soups, and are pickled.—See Tomata Catsup^ and Sauce, No. 274. 207. Beetroots. Though chiefly used in winter-salads, or for pickling, beetroots may be dressed the same as parsnips, and served as a garnishing with boiled beef or salt fish. Wash, and without touching with the knife, boil them whole in boiling water, and skin,—or bake and skin them. If broken, the colour will fly. Parboiled beetroot may be sliced round or oval, and stewed with small onions in a little cream or gravy thickened, with seasonings, sugar, and a spoonful of vinegar. Dish the slices of beetroot with the small onions round them. Beetroot, besides being wholesome and palatable, is orna- mental in salads, and for garnishing; and makes a cheap and beautiful common pickle. In England it is often served sliced cold, along with the cheese, and with a little vinegar, or Chili vinegar poured over. The leaves of the white beet are cooked as spinage. The juice of the red is sometimes used to colour certain soups and sauces. 208. To Stew and Koast Onions. Scald and peel a dozen middle-sized, or three or four mild Spanish onions. If old and acrid, parboil, skin, and then stew very slowly for nearly an hour in good veal or beef stock, with white pepper and salt; thicken the sauce with a little white roux or butter kneaded in flour, and dish- ing the onions in a small hash-dish, pour it over them. A little mushroom-catsup may be added, or they may be browned. Onions are roasted before the fire in their skins, peeled, and served with scooped butter and salt. They are in Scotland served with roasted goose, or pork; and eaten either alone or with roasted potatoes, or red or pickled herrings. In the latter case, we would recommend mustard