TO DRESS PIPERS, RED MULLET, FISH-TURTLE. 187 tlie mouth; dry, flour, egg, and crumb tlie fish; bake it in a hot oven; drain it and serve with Dutch sauce.—This must not be confounded with rizzared haddocks, which in Scotland are often called pipers, 152. To Dress Red Mullet. Clean and bake or boil the fish. Serve with lobster-sauce. —Ohs. French cooks do not gut this delicate fish. It is merely washed, wrapped in buttered paper-cases, and baked to preserve the delicacy of its native flavour. Serve in the cases. 153. Fish-Turtle, A favourite homely dish. Fry slices of fresh codling or haddock, and drain them. Parboil, skin, and cut into squares a thick piece of good skate. Have ready some stock of cow-heel, beef, or veal, highly seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and catsup, and thickened with butter rolled in flour. Stew the fish in this stock with the meat of a lobster, and a few oysters in their juice. Season with essence of anchovy, and a little wine, if you like. Serve in a soup-dish. 154. To Curry Haddocks, Codlings, Whitings, Or slices of Cod^ Halibut^ and other Fish, Have nearly a quart of good beef or veal stock, in which a carrot or turnip and two onions have been boiled. Thicken it with butter kneaded in lightly-browned rice- flour. Having cleaned, skinned, and boned the fish, cut them into neat fillets of about three inches in length, liub them with flour, and fry them in butter or lard of a fine golden brown. Drain them, and mix very smoothly with a little of the stock from a dessertspoonful to a table- spoonful of curry-powder, two onions beaten in a mortar, and a large quarter-pint of thick cream. Stew the fish very slowly in the stock till they are tender, which will not take long. Place the pieces neatly in the dish, the largest in the centre, and having skimmed the curry-sauce, pour it hot over them. Ohs. Curry has become a favourite way of dressing fish, though till of late it found no place in any book of cookery. It is cheap, convenient, end even elegant. Instead, however, of using curry-powder as obtained in shops, we would advise every cook to keep the several ingredients, each