312 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES kept till fully ripe, brushed with pyroligneous acid, kept two more days, and roasted, covering it with buttered paper or veal-caul, and then coarse paste, and roasting and glazing it, —serving it on French beans or cucumbers, first stewed in gravy, and placed in the dish below the mutton. Rumps are very suitably served over a 'puree of pease, or of turnips. —See Rognons de Mouton, No. 648. 479. Parson^s or Friar^s Venison.—When kept till very tender, bone a shoulder of mutton, and lay it to steep in wine, vinegar, herbs, and spices. Make a forcemeat of the trimmings and the kidney, or of ham, or tongue, with oysters or mushrooms. Stuff the shoulder,—cover it with veal-caul or paper; roast or braise it, and serve with venison-sauce. Garlic gives it the flavour of foreign cookery, if this is wished. Baste with the steep liquor. 480. Sheep^s or Lamb's Trotters.— Stew them in a braise for four hours, and serve with sauce Robert.—See French Cookery^ No. 653. 481. Sheep's Tongues.—Blanch ; stew in broth for two * hours, or in the stock-pot, or braise five or seven tongues. Skin and split them: heat them up and dish them round, by thorough-bred gourmands esteemed the ne plus ultra of cookery. It is eminently suited to white meats; lean, or what was anciently called, "rascal venison," turkey, and domestic fowls. It is not quite so well adapted to delicate stomachs ; nor is it relished by those whose unsophisti- cated palates can still distinguish and enjoy the native, decided flavour of meats, and reject even pepper to their beef-steak. Braised turkey, or rather Binde en daube, is a favourite dish, and when old and dry in the flesh, braising is requisite for this bird, of which it has been somewhat irrever- ently sung— " Turkey boil'd is Turkey spoil'd, And Turkey roast is Turkey lost; But for Turkey braised the Lord be praised." Braising is comparatively an easy process; and the same rules apply either to meat or poultry. Clean, season, and stuff or lai-d, where necessary, the article to be dressed. Line a thick-bottomed stewpan or baking-dish, just large enough to hold the meat, with slices of good bacon, or fat iDcef, sliced onion, carrot, and turnip. Strew in a few chopped herbs, with salt, mace, and black and Jamaica peppercorns, and a few bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, etc., etc., observing to vary and suit the seasonings to the nature of the preparation. Lay the meat or poultry on this spicy bed, and cover it with a superstratum of the same ingredients. Over this place folds of cambric paper, wrap a cloth about the lid of the stewpan, and press it closely down, setting a weight over it to keep it so, and to prevent the escape of the savoury steams which the meat or poultry ought to imbibe till completely saturated. Set the stewpan over embers, have embers above it, and let the process be very slow. Dishes which are braised are generally finished by glazing.