BROCOLI, CAULIFLOWERS, ASPARAGUS, ETC. 205 188. Brocoli and Cauliflowers. Choose those vegetables close, compact, of a good colour, and from five to eight inches in diameter; strip off the out- side leaves, and trim away the tops of the inner leaves; cut off the stalk at the bottom, and pare away the outer husky skin from it and the branches. Having washed, lay them head downwards, in a pan of cold water and salt, which will bring out all insects; and boil them open on a drainer in plenty of boiling water, with a little salt; some cooks add a bit of sugar. Skim the water well; from ten minutes to fifteen will boil them. When the stalks are nearly tender they are ready. If some heads are larger than others, put in the large ones first; dish as one large cauliflower, and if sauce is wanted, pour melted butter [sauce blanche) about them.—Obs. Brocoli is sometimes served at supper, like asparagus, on a toast. Melted butter (often with a very little vinegar) is usually sent to table either about or along with brocoli and cauliflower. Cauliflower is nicely dressed for the Second Course by pulling it into handsome branches, parboiling these, and then stewing them a few minutes in a sauce of white stock, seasoned with mace, white pepper, and salt, and thickened with a little sweet cream, and a bit of butter kneaded in flour, or ct la crime,—See No. 698 and onward. 189. Cauliflower with Parmesan,— For the Second Course. Strip away nearly all the green part, boil, and dish, and sauce the cauliflowers with sauce blanche; strew grated Parmesan over it; then gently pour a little melted butter, then strew crumbs and more grated cheese over all, and colour with a salamander; pour a little well-seasoned veloute or melted fresh butter, well mixed with grated Parmesan, into the dish; or butter melted in cream or milk will do.— Another way. Boil and dish the cauliflower, and have ready to pour over it a hot sauce made of veloute.^ and a liaison of two eggs with a little cream. 190. To Dress Asparagus, Sea-Kale, and Salsify. Scrape the stalks of asparagus nicely clean; throw them into cold water; tie them up in bundles of about three