OF BEEF. 283 catsup. Butter may be substituted for bacon, and with veal should be. Ohs.—A la mode will ever be a favourite way of dressing beef, for luxurious, healthy eaters. It should now be called d Vantique. The Cidotte de Bceuf a la Gelee of the French kitchen, called also Boeuf d la Royale^ differs very little from our beef a la mode^ save that it is tied up, and, when half baked and braised^ is boned. It is glazed, served with its own gravy, and garnished with pickles or parsley; and in high style^ with different coloured meat jellies, cut in figures. Many cooks lard the meat and bake it. It is good cold. Plain ct la mode Beef or Brazilian Stew.—(We are, we believe, indebted for this receipt to Mr Charles Knight the publisher.) " Cut a shin of beef into three-ounce slices, dip them in vinegar, and stew them very slowly: no water is required; in three or four hours, by a slow fire, the meat will have yielded abundant gravy, and be tender as a chicken; w^hen it may be seasoned, and served.'' 391. Dr Hunter's Receipt for a Stewed Brisket. Brisket of Beef stewed savoury.—Stew till quite tender eight pounds of the brisket in as much water as will just "steam'' the meat. Take out the bones, and carefully skim off the fat. Take a pint of the liquor, put to it the third of a pint of red wine, a little walnut or mushroom catsup, and some salt. Tie up in a bit of muslin some whole white pepper and mace, and stew these together for a short time. Have ready three carrots and turnips boiled tender, and cut into the form of dice ; strew them hot upon the beef, putting a few into the dish. " Trufiies and morells may be added," —when you can get them, the Doctor should have said. 392. To Collar Beef.—Choose the thin part of the flank, or what in Scotland is called the nine-holes or runner. Let the meat be young, tender, and well grained, but not very fat, as it is to be eaten cold. Rub it with salt mixed with a very little saltpetre; and when it has drained a night, rub it thoroughly well with a mixture of sugar, salt, pounded pepper, and allspice. Let it lie a week in the salting tray, turning it, and basting daily with the pickle that will gather. If the weather is cold, it may lie ten days; then bone it,