321 OF POULTRY AND GAME. pepper, onion, and mace, in a close stewpan that will just hold it, and allow it room to swell. When it has stewed a half-hour, put to it a small cupful of clean, well-soaked rice. "When tender, take up the fowl, keep it hot, and, straining the rice from the broth, place it on a reversed sieve to dry. Dish the fowl, and pile the rice in light heaps around it. Bechamel may be put over all. Serve parsley and butter sauce. Serve the soup separately.—See pages 72 to 74, and 77. 514. Fowl with Mushrooms,—Season and stew as above in a very strong gravy, with butter rolled in flour, and add a few button-mushrooms nicely picked. Serve mushroom- sauce or a white fricassee of mushrooms. 515. Fowls with Oysters.—Truss as for boiling. Put plenty of butter and a seasoning of mace and lemon-rind into them; tie them at neck and vent; line a nice stewpan with streaked bacon, and put in the fowls, breast downmost. Moisten with stock, and braise the fowls slowly. Mean- while have a very nice thick oyster-sauce prepared with butter and cream; dish the fowls on this, and garnish with fried oysters and slices of lemon.—See Howtowdie^ Scottish^ No. 737. 516. To Farce a Fowl—a favourite old-fashioned English Dish.—Having boned the fowl, stuff the inside with the following forcemeat:—A quarter-pound of minced veal, two ounces of grated ham, two of chopped onion and suet, a spoonful of shred sweet herbs, two chopped hard yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, mixed spices, and a little cayenne. Shred the several ingredients and beat the whole to a paste in a mortar, adding two eggs, to make them cohere. Stuff the fowl, sew it up, keeping it of the natural shape, draw the legs inside, and truss the wings. Stew it in clear stock, and, when nearly done, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour. When just ready to serve, add a little cream, squeeze a lemon into the dish, and serve the fowl with the sauce around it.—See Quenelles^ and Gratin, French Cookery, 517. To Ragout Poultry^ Pigeons^ Rabbits^ etc,—a general Receipt,—Half-roast the thing which is to be dressed as a ragout. Carve it into joints as at table, and stew in good stock, with a couple of onions, two dozen corns of allspice o 2