214 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. the cucumbers, skim it, and pour it over them. To stew celery, clean and cut the heads (the younger the more delicate) in from three to six-inch lengths. Boil fifteen minutes; drain and stew in butter, or with ham. Thicken the sauce with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, add a quarter-pint of sweet cream, and season with pepper, mace, and salt. The French put grated nutmeg or minced parsley to stews of cucumber, and thicken the sauce with beat yolks of eggs. Nutmeg is a suitable condiment with this watery vegetable, so is cayenne.— Ohs. Stewed cucumbers are served with lamb-steaks, mutton-chops, or rump-steaks, and with mutton-rumps and kidneys. In high cookery, cucumbers are stuffed with a savoury forcemeat, for entrees, and with a sweet stuffing for entremets. These vegetable stews may be made into purees or sauces bearing their respective names, by cutting the celery in smaller bits, and by stewing the cucumbers to a mash, and pressing through a sieve. If to serve with veal, veal-kidneys, or fowls, celery may in cook- ing be enriched with ham and seasoning herbs.—See No. 240. 211. To Stew Eed Cabbage. Wash, pick, and shred what will fill a large pint basin. Melt some butter in a saucepan, and put in the cabbage with only the water that hangs about it, pepper, cayenne, salt, and an onion sliced. Stew this, keeping the saucepan close covered, but tossing; and when just ready, add a glass of vinegar, which should just boil up. French cooks add a bay-leaf and two cloves stuck in an onion, which must be picked out before serving. Fried sausages are served on this preparation; or it may be served with houilliJ^ * The cabbage tribe has ever been a first-rate favourite with writers on diet, whether ancient or modern. Volumes have been composed, not merely in praise of the demulcent cauliflower and brocoli, but of the common white and red cabba-;e. Besides their use in soups, and in correcting the putrescent qualities of animal food, they are said to be correctives of the consequences of excess in wine. Arbuthhot says, the juice of red cab- bage baked is, with the addition of honey, an excellent pectoral; and red cabbage stewed in veal-broth, with calf's lights and pistacliios, is, on the Continent, esteemed a specific in consumption—a malady, by the way, for which a remedy has been discovered in chickens, oysters, jellies, fruits, and every favourite aliment,—in short, in whatever the discoverer fancies he himself could thrive on, and live for ever.