552 CHAP. II. PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. This cooling preparation was patronized by Sir John Sinclair. It may be made like hatted kit, of mixed butter-milk and sweet milk.—Indeed, there is a learned controversy on the genuine preparation, and another as to whether the honour of its invention really belongs to Corstorphine near Edin- burgh, or to the burgh of Rutherglen in the neighbourhood of the western metropolis. 1120. Sour-Milk Crowdie,—Pour fresh good butter-milk upon finely-ground oatmeal till as thin as pancake-batter. Stir the mixture. 1121. Sago for the delicate,—also a Supper-Dish.—Soak the berries, changing the water. Simmer with a bit of lemon-peel till the berries look transparent. When nearly done, add aromatic spices (z. e., nutmeg, mace, and cloves) to taste, with wine and sugar to taste. Give the whole a boil up before dishing it.—Ohs, Sago and patent cocoa, pounded in equal quantities, and a spoonful boiled in milk, with sugar to taste, make a nutritious breakfast. 1122. Arrowroot Jelly.—This may be prepared with either water, milk, or white wine and water, according to the pur- pose for which it is wanted, and sweetened, and seasoned to taste. Rub two heaped teaspoonfuls of the flour well with a little cold water, as in making starch, and pour over it a pint of the boiling liquid to be used. Stir it the whole time it is on the fire. Five minutes will dress it.—Ohs. This jelly, made in a shape and turned out, makes a light and pretty supper-dish, garnished with bits of red-currant jelly, or may serve for luncheon to young persons and children. Potato-flour is done in the same way, but it must be boiled longer to be good or safe. Arrowroot need not be boiled, and often is not, though it is best so cooked. 1123. A simple Indian Curry for a Convalescent.—Take a clove of garlic and a small onion; bruise them in a mortar, with three teaspoonfuls of the powder described in next receipt, and a teaspoonful of salt. Slice another onion, and fry it in a stewpan with a good piece of butter. Let it fry till the onion is brown. Pick out the shreds of onion, and put the mixed ingredients into the pan with a teaspoon- ful of good butter-milk, or soured cream; add to this a young fowl skinned, and carved into joints; and simmer till it is ready, stirring the whole quickly.