528 CHAP. I.—LIQUEUES, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. during the whole process, and then briskly pour it from one vessel into another till it becomes smooth and bright. * 1076. The German Vermoute, or Wormwood-Wine.—In- fuse two teaspoonfuls of the extract of wormwood in a quart of St George, a celebrated Hungarian wine. Any rough or sub-acid wine will medicinally answer the same purpose.— See Nos. 1060, 1093. 1077. To make Sack-Posset.—This is made either of thin cream and grated sweet biscuits, or of beat eggs and milk instead of cream. Boil the cream or milk, sweeten it, and season with cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Warm the wine (Canary, alias sack) in a separate vessel, and stir it gradu- ally into the milk; then pour it quickly from one vessel into another till perfectly smooth: this is especially requi- site if made with eggs.—See Wassail-Bowl^ No. 937. 1078. Ale-Posset.—Boil a pint of new milk with a slice of toasted bread, sweeten and season a bottle of mild ale in a china basin or dish, and pour the boiling milk over it. "When the head rises serve it. 1079. The Pope^s Posset.—Sweeten and heat a bottle of white wine. Have a half-pound of sweet almonds, with a few bitter, blanched, pounded, and boiled in water, and ready strained. Mix the boiling-hot ingredients, beat them well up together. 1080. Regents or George the Fourth^s Punch.—A bottle of champagne, a quarter-pint of brandy, a glassful of veri- table Martinique., the juice of a lemon and Seville orange: With this mix a pint or more of a strong infusion of the best green tea strained, and capillaire or simple syrup to taste. Calves'-feet jelly is sometimes mixed with this composition. It may be iced, and must be strained.—Ohs. Other liqueurs may be used with this compound, and also a flavouring of aromatics first infused and strained.—See No. 1069.-|- * This beveraj^e, carried about in a bright copper kettle, is, or loas^ the celebrated New-Year's-Morning TIet Pint of Edinburgh and Glasgow. In honest, frugal Aberdeen, half-boiled sowens is used on the same festive occasion. In Edinburgh, in her high and palmy state,—her days of "spice and wine," while she had yet a Court and a Parliament, while France sent her wines, and Spain, Italy, and Turkey, fruits and spices,—a far more refined composition than the above was made by substituting light white wine for ale, and brandy for whisky.—W. W. f The following receipt for making Tea-punch, is taken from the Journal des Connaissancts Usuelles:—Hyson tea, 8 oz.; black tea, 4 oz.; boiling