350 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. simplicity of good taste disclaims altogether, as miich as it does the profusion of bows and cocques of ribbon, bits of fringe, and gimp, a button here, and a tag there, of French milliners. The great Careme seems to have a chaster taste in garnitures than most of his contemporaries; yet the minister of pampered luxury and boundless wealth, of the Emperor Alexander and of Rothschild, cannot be the best model or guide for the cook of a modest English family of middle rank, nor even for families of higher station. This much premised, and these needful cautions given, we pro- ceed to our compendious exposition of—the French Culi- nary System. 681. First Step in French Cookery: Stock-Broth, or Grand Bouillon. This foundation of soups and sauces is prepared exactly as directed in Nos. 59 and 60 of this work. Study these receipts; and read the receipts which follow them. French, like English cooks, have two foundation gravies or sauces,— white and hrown^ which are continually in requisition in the kitchen. We give the most choice of what are con- sidered their best sauces, where these are not already given in our Chapter, Sauces, from being now, under their French names, familiarized in the English kitchen, and in frequent use. 582. Grand Consomme^ the second step in systematic French Cookery,—Take a knuckle of veal, a shin of beef, any fresh trimmings of veal, giblets, poultry, rabbits, or game, or an old fowl, or brace of partridges. Cut these in pieces (except such as you wish to serve as dishes,) and put them into a nice clean stewpan with a bunch of parsley and young onions, and^ if the flavour of foreign cookery is admired, a clove of garlic. Moisten this with fresh stocky and let the meat sweat over a slow fire till heated through. Then prick it with a sharp-pointed knife to let the juices flow out, and add as much boiling stock as will suit the quantity of meat you have. Skim this, and let it simmer for three hours* Let it settle. Skim and strain it.—Ohs. Consomme^ wholly of poultry or game, to suit dishes of fowl or game, may be made as above without using beef. For such gravy a little lean ham is an improvement^ and for game consommej