556 CHAP. II.—MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. tlie meat from the sides, and carefully turn it out, placing a dish over the mould to receive it. Lightly demi-glaze it, and ornament the dish with a border of aspic-jelly, cut in diamonds, buttons, etc., interspersed with hard-boiled eggs, —hens', but plovers' if you have them. Another.—Of the remains of this dish you may make a handsome little dish, by dressing circular slices of it, en miroton, round a centre of trimmed endive, or very white cos lettuce.—See No. 455. 1133^. Porh Pies, Puddings, and Italian Cheese.—The genuine English Pork Pie, which is sent in welcome presents from farm-houses to friends in towns on the great day when a pig is killed, is always baked in a raised crust, round, oval, or heart-shaped, and from eight to fourteen inches or more in length. Pork pies for home consumption are quite as good baked in a dish and merely covered. They are made of the odds and ends of the meat when roasts are cut^ and the trimmings of the pieces salted. Beat the meat well. Cut it into bits the size of a nut. Season highly with salt, white pepper, and cayenne. Press in the meat, either in layers of alternate fat and lean, or of these mixed. Make it very compact and solid, by pressure. Bake in a soaking heat; no water is given. A finer pork pie, to our taste, is made of half veal; and one finer still, has the dish or raised crust first lined with sausage meat. No. 542, and the centre filled with the seasoned bits as above.—A pork pudding, called Italian Cheese, is made as No. 875, with sausage-meat lining the crust in the basin. It may be eaten hot or cold. A cold Pork Pie of sausage-meat, and a cold veal or chicken pie, make an admirable Pic-nic supply. Of Coffee. 1134. Coffee hy the Imperial Percolator.—P.S. Touch- wood^ s Method.—Pour some boiling water into the percola- tor, and let it remain till the metal of the pot is thoroughly heated. Put the coffee-powder into the proper receptacle, between the perforated bottoms of the upper and under cylinders. Pour out the hot water from the pot, and put into the upper cylinder of the percolator as much boiling water as will completely saturate the coffee-powder; a small teacupful will be sufficient. In about two minutes, fill the