261 VINEGARS. cums into paste and then in small cakes. Bake these twice; pound and sift the powder, bottle in vials and stop. 334. Mixed Spices and Seasonings.—Cook's or Kitchen Pepper.—Dry, and pound or grind to a fine powder, an ounce of ginger; and of nutmeg, black and Jamaica pep- per, and cinnamon, half an ounce each, with a dozen of cloves. Bottle these separately in vials labelled and well corked: mix in proper proportions with common salt when wanted. N.B.—French cooks keep their seasonings mixed, and even pound or grind them together, not from convenience, but to blend the flavours intimately : much may be said for this practice. 335. Cook's Seasonings for White Sauces, Fricassees, and Ragouts. White pepper, nutmeg, mace, and lemon- grate pounded and mixed. Also ginger and cayenne in proper proportions. These may be pounded together. 336. Powder of fine Herbs, for flavouring Soups and Sauces, when the fresh Herbs cannot he obtained.—Dry, in summer, parsley two ounces, of lemon thyme, winter savory, sweet marjoram, and basil, each an ounce; lemon-peel dried, an ounce. Dry slowly and thoroughly; pound dry, and bottle. The powder should be sifted. Celery-seeds may be put to this useful relish.—See No. 244. 337. Household Vinegars.—Vinegar is an article per- petually wanted for various purposes in almost every family; and, compared with the first cost of the materials, it is, when good, an expensive one. Though we are not perfectly convinced that the labour of the still-room is at all times what economists would call productive labour, we think that vinegar, for ordinary purposes, may often be made at home. 338. Sugar'Vinegar.—To every gallon of water put two pounds of coarse raw sugar. Boil and skim this. Put it to cool in a tub, and when sufficiently cold, from 75° to 80° Fahrenheit, float in it a slice of bread soaked in fresh yeast. Barrel it in a week, and set it in the sun in summer, or by the fire in winter, for six months, without stopping the bung-hole; but cover it with muslin to keep out insects. 339. Cider'Vinegar.—Put a pound of white sugar to the gallon of cider, and, shaking them well together, let them