378 CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. Bake tliem in a quick oven for about twenty minutes; take off the marked lid with a knife; scoop out the inside paste, and fill the vacant space with the preparation, which gives the name. Great care must be taken that the paste does not allow the sauce to escape and slop the dish. To prevent this, cooks fortify weak or thin parts with what is scooped out, and plaster with beat egg. 678^. Petites Vols-au-vent of Lobster.—Prepare from about a pound of puff-paste a dozen or more small vols-au-vent. When they are baked have ready the meat of a hen lob- ster cut in dice, and the spawn pounded with an ounce of butter, and rubbed through a sieve. Put eight spoonfuls of white sauce, and four of white stock, into a saucepan with cayenne, pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of essence of an- chovies. Stir the meat into the hot sauce; heat it through, and, filling the vols-au-vent, dress them on a napkin pyra- midically. Fish and shell-fish of various sorts, skates' livers, and those of mackerels, may be prepared in the same way as a sort of hors d^ceuvres. Another kind of hors cBuvreSj named Petites Bouchees^ or small mouthfuls, are only about an inch and a half in diameter, and the paste is thin in proportion. They are made of several sorts of fish, of skate livers, oysters, fish roes, beef marrow, game, chicken, etc. Small rissoles are yet another form of the same relishing or stimulating pre- parations ; and so are small croustades, croquettes^ and esca- lopes. When the cook knows how to prepare the paste- cases under their various names and forms, the rest is more easily accomplished, as the relishes for all of them are made in nearly the same way, and only the sauce and seasonings varied to suit each sort. They are all usually dressed pyra- midically upon a napkin. Anchovies, anchovy or piquant salads, olives, etc., are all tastefully dressed in France, and served as whets and zests, or as hors d'ceuvres, Petits Diahlotins. These im,ps are made sweet by pounded filberts boiled in sweetened cream, thickened with rice-fiour to a soft paste, which is again rolled in small bits in more pounded filberts, and cut to the size of nuts. These are fried for a minute in the wire-basket for frying parsley; drained, rolled in sugar, and served either as an entremets as hors d^oeuvresj or a relish with wine.