409 PRESERVED FRUIT. 994. Cucumbers, a beautiful Preserve.—Lay finely-sliapecl cucumbers in a weak pickle of salt and water for two days, and then for the same length of time in fresh water, chang- ing it twice. Green them as directed for pickles, No. 370, and strew a bit of alum over them to assist the process. When alternately scalded and cooled till they look of a fine green, boil them for a few minutes in water with fresh vine or cabbage leaves above and below them, and, when cool, cut a bit out of the flat side, and scrape out the seeds and pulp. Dry the cucumbers gently in a cloth, and put into the inside of each a seasoning of bruised cloves, sliced ginger, thin lemon-rind, mace, and a few white peppercorns. Tie in the ■bit cut out with narrow tape. To every pound of fruit have ready clarified a pound of sugar, and, when cold, pour it over them. Press them down with a plate on which a weight is placed, that they may be covered; and, when they have soaked two days, boil up the syrup, adding one-half more of clarified sugar to it. Repeat the soaking of the fruit, and boiling up of the syrup three times during a fort- night ; and, last of all, add to it the juice and fine grate of two lemons for every six cucumbers, and, boiling them in it for ten minutes, pot them up. They may be preserved by a more simple process, by cutting them in quarters, but look best when done whole and served in a glass dish, with a little of the clear syr.ip round them. A little pine-apple rum put to the syrup gives an imitation of West India sweetmeats. Small Melons are well preserved in the above manner. 995. To Preserve Strawberries,—Sprinkle sifted fine sugar equal to half their own weight, over the finest large fruit not over ripe. When they have lain in this for a night, take as much sugar again; or, in all, equal weight to the fruit, and with currant-juice make it into a thin syrup, and simmer the fruit in this till the juice will jelly. Serve either iced, or in a glass dish. 996. To Preserve Carved Oranges whole,—Choose large well-shaped and well-coloured China oranges. Rub them hard with a towel; and then, with a sharp penknife, or the knife made for this purpose, carve the rind in deeply in- dented leaves, or in groups of dancing-nymphs, etc., according to fancy (to do this well the thing must be seen). Boil them, thus carved, in plenty of spring-water, and when quite soft