498 CHAP. V. ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. fruit. Skim well, and when the skins look very transpa- rent, take up the fruit with a sugar-skimmer into glasses or pots. Boil the syrup till it will jelly (if the fruit were boiled as long it would become leathery), strain it through a fine sieve, and pour it on the berries. This is a cheap and beautiful preserve, either served as a tart with a croquante cover, or in a glass dish. Green Gascoignes may be done in the same manner, first greening them, as directed for pickles, with alum and vine or cabbage leaves, though this at best is, we confess, a suspicious process. Every seed must be picked out of those green gooseberries with a needle, or they will neither look nor keep nearly so well.—See No. 973^. 991. To Preserve Cherries.—Take a fourth more of sugar than of Morella-cherries. Cut the stalks; take out the stones with a silver bodkin or needle as gently as possible; or, if this be too troublesome, merely prick the fruit with a needle. Clarify the sugar, and put to it a half-pint of red or white currant-jelly for every two pounds; and when this has boiled for five minutes, put in the cherries, and let them simmer till they look bright. 992. Dried Cherries.—Take out the stones, and give the cherries a simmer in this syrup. Let them remain in this for a day, and scald them again and again, making the syrup gradually richer with more sugar. When they look bright and plump, pot them up in the syrup; and when wanted, drain and dry them on a stove or wire sieve, or in a very cool oven. Cherries., peaches^ apricots., etc.., may be preserved in brandy with great ease. Prick them with a needle, and drop them into wide-necked bottles, with some fine sugar. Fill up with brandy, and cork and place the bottles in a hot- water bath or cool oven for some hours.—See Widow Bar- nahi/s Cherries^ No. 1088. 993. Cherries en Chemisej a pretty little Dish.—Take the largest ripe cherries you can get. Cut off the stalks with scissors, leaving about an inch to each cherry. Beat the white of an egg to a froth, and roll them in it one by one, and then roll them lightly in sifted sugar. Lay a sheet of paper on a sieve reversed, and, placing them on this, set them on a stove till they are to be served.—Ohs. Tlie same may be done with bunches of currants, strawberries, hautboys, etc. Fruits en chemise look well and cost little.—^^See No. 707.