PRAWNS, OR CRAY-FISII CAVIARE AND MOCK-CAVIARE. 195 fillets, the small claws disposed neatly round the dish, and the contents of the body pounded, rubbed through a sieve, seasoned and stewed in a little gravy, before being returned into the shell. Shell-fish are picked from the shells, from which a liquor is drawn by breaking and boiling them in water and a little white wine and vinegar, with salt, pepper, mace, and lemon-peel. Strain and thicken this liquor; add the fish; stew for five minutes, and dish over slips of thin toast.—See Aspic Jelly^ No. 606. 174. Prawns, or Cray-Fish,— An Ornamental Dish* Make a savoury jelly of calf s feet or a cow-heel, a piece of skate, or trimmings of turbot, with horseradish, lemon- peel, an onion, and a piece of lean bacon. When boiled to a jelly, strain it, and when cold take off the fat, keep back the sediment, and boil it up with a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and the whisked whites and crushed shells of four eggs. Do not disturb it by stirring. When boiled, let it settle twenty minutes, and run it through a jelly-bag. Pour some of the jelly into a deep dish; when it has firmed, put in the cray-fish with their backs down- wards, fill up the dish with the jelly, and when cold, turn the whole out. This jelly may be poured over any sort of shell-fish.—Obs. A lobster in savoury jelly was one of the fantastic dishes of the old school of cookery. The process was very elaborate, and it seldom succeeded entirely; either a horn was broken or awry, or a claw snapt, or a fracture of the tail took place, to the utter discomfiture of the cook and mortification of the hostess. 175. Caviare and Mock-Caviare. Caviare must be bought. The best is prepared from the roe of sturgeon; but roe of salmon, pike, etc., are also em- ployed. It is eaten raw^ with toasted bread, oil, and vine- gar, or lemon-juice.—A good imitation is thus m.ade .: Bone a few anchovies, and chop and pound them in a mortar with dried parsley, a clove of garlic, a little cayenne, salt, lemon- juice, and a very little salad-oil. Serve on toasted bread or toasted biscuits. See Salmon-roej No. IIS^^.