256 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. Add, as in making custard, the beat yolks of two eggs, and again stir over the fire, taking care that it does not curdle. 3192. Dutch Fish-Sauce—Equal quantities of water and vinegar boiled, seasoned, and thickened with beat yolk of egg, and sharpened with a good squeeze of lemon; do not let it boil after the egg is added, but mill it like No. 306. 320. An excellent Store English Fish-Sauce.—A half-pint of claret or red port, a half-pint of mountain or Ehenish wine, and another of walnut-catsup, a large wineglassful of walnut-pickle, the grate and juice of two lemons, a dozen well-flavoured mellow anchovies pounded and dissolved by the side of the fire, three eschalots chopped, a good relish of cayenne, four large spoonfuls of scraped horseradish, a few blades of mace, and a dessertspoonful of mustard, rubbed down with the anchovy-liquor, of which the more you have the better. Simmer this composition for a few minutes, mixing in the ingredients according to the delicacy of their flavour and their solubility. Bottle it when cold in small bottles ; cork them well and dip in rosin. It will keep longer if, instead of fresh lemon rind and juice, citric acid and dry lemon-peel are used. A teaspoonful of the above will convert two ounces of melted butter into a well- flavoured extemporaneous sauce; or it may be mixed with the butter on the plate, like essence of anchovy, soy, etc. 321. The GeneraVs^ or Camp Sauce^ a Store-Sauce for Fish or Meat.—Chop six eschalots, a clove of garlic, with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of lemon-thyme and leaves of basil, with a few bits of the peel of a Seville orange. Bruise a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, a half-ounce of long pepper, and add two ounces of salt, a quarter-pint of vinegar, and a pint of Madeira, with a half-glassful of verjfiice, and the juice of two lemons. Infuse these ingredients in a stone jar, very closely stopped, and let it stand over embers, or by the side of the fire, or in a hain marie^ for a night. Pour it gently from the lees, and strain it, and bottle as other essences. This is a high compound relish, and must be used in moderation either with thickened gravy or melted butter. 322. Dr Redgill's Sauce Piquant^ for Fish or Cold Meat.— Pound a large spoonful of scraped horseradish, four eschalots, a clove of garlic, a drachm of mustard, and one of celery-