TURKEY, FOWLS, AND GAME. 95 ill the inside.* The sinews of the legs must be drawn: (those of fowls, pheasants, etc. should all be drawn, espec- ially when the birds are old.) Press down the breast-bone * STUFPiNa FOR Turkey.—So dexterously, and with such an air of conscious superiority, did Mistress Dons carry herself, that, except for the new lights which had dawned upon Redgill in the composition of stuffings^ and an affected dandy squeamishness which overcame the young Guards- man about trussing, in this important branch of the art, the Club would, unquestioning, have submitted to her judgment as to an oracle ; but these causes produced open discontents, and vehement debate, and— " I say sweet stuffing is an abomination for roast turkey," cried Redgill, as the knife of Winterblossom gave to view Meg's savoury composition, mottled with Zante currants, and fragrant with what she termed " a scrape o' a nutmeg,"—an immense grater furnished with this spicy fruit being, instead of a lady's essence-bottle, generally lodged in the depths and laby- rinths of those strong, blue cloth p ickets, with scarlet welting, of whose multifarious contents Jekyll one day made a catalogue. " Oysters I oysters! madam; there is no other turkey stuffing worth the attention of a Christian eater."—"Or Dinde aux Truffes et d la hroche,^^ said Touch- wood, animated by the spirit of contradiction, and the ambition of display- ing his science. " A pound of fresh truffles chopped, the same quantity of rasped fat white bacon. Soak the mixture in the stew-pan, with spiceries and a bay leaf. Stuff the turkey, and give him three days to take the flavour ; covering him with slices of bacon :—or chestnuts,'''' con- tinued he. " Roast a quarter hundred, and peel them ;—leave out ten or a dozen; pound in a mortar, with the liver parboiled, a quarter of a pound of ham, or of pork sausage well grated, or pounded, a little basil and parsley, mace, pepper, salt, our friend Megs nutmeg, and a good piece of butter ; stuff and tie the bird at neck and vent:—roast him, and tell me how you like him. For sauce, the remaining chestnuts chopped and stirred in a thickened strong gravy, with a glass of old Sherry or Madeira. Garnish with sliced orange. This, sir, is a turkey for you ; or, better still, a roast turkey, with rolls of sausage fried, or sausage balls served with it,— 'an Alderman in chains,' as those waggish rogues, the London sturdy beggars, call it,—their favourite regale at the close of a prosperous day." Redgill despised the chestnut receipt; but turkey and sausage, the ambrosia of the housing ken, seemed worthy of an epicure's serious investi- gation ; so the next bird was ordered to be dressed beggar-fashion. " And why, Dame," said Jekyt.l, as, thrown back in his chair, he eyed the roasted turkey with a languid air of half-affected disgust,—" Why produce the unhappy huhhly-jock with his head—forty mortal gashes upon it—tucked under his wing, while his gizzard and liver, larger than life, grace his other fin? This affair of dining, after all, has its hetise. Or why th )se rough-footed Scots," pointing to a brace of moorfowl, " in their spurs and pantaloons, with their pretty innocent heads tucked under their arms, like that of St Denis in the pictures of a book of miracles ?—nay, worse, I pr ;t3St," and he lifted his eye-glass,—" here, too, are ducks, if 1 don't mis- take ; but indeed there is no mistaking—miserable amphibise ! their saffron web-feet drawn up, and spread in such goodly sort, as if in act to swim. Our refined patrons, Drs Kitchiner and Trussler, direct that the feet be roasted delicately crisp, as some people are very fond of them. " Cut off a turkey's head. Captain Jackall!" broke forth Meg, with in- dignant astonishment,—"A roasted tu;key! Do you tak' us for born ignoramuses on this side of the Border?"—" Cut off the heads," responded