WHITE GRAVY AND OTHER SAUCES. 239 and parsley and thyme, and some chopped mushrooms, but no lemon or acid of any kind. Let the meat sweat, but not brown, and prick it to let the juices flow. When the knuckle is done well enough for a family dinner, skim the sauce ; strain through a law^n sieve ; boil it again till well reduced, and add to it, on the fire, as much roux blanche^ or white thickening (No, 253), ready prepared, as will make it of a proper consistence,—rather thick than other- wise, as it can easily be thinned. Skim it and boil it up once more, stirring it, and lifting it in a spoon, and letting it fall continually, to make it smooth and fine ; do this till it cool. This useful Scottish shinking process, which the French call to vanner a sauce, has no name in English.— See Bechamel, Nos. 279, 587. N.B.—M. Ude substitutes cream for roux hlanche in this sauce, and says that it is a great improvement. In appear- ance it certainly is so. The above is nearly sauce tournee, 259. Fennel and Butter, Basil, Burnet, Chervil, Tarra- gon, Cress and Butter, are all prepared for sauces according to the receipt for parsley and butter. No. 251.—Ohs. Tar- ragon, basil, chervil, rocambole, and burnet, used instead of parsley, give dishes a smack of foreign cookery. We would, however, recommend a cautious use of burnet and tarragon, unless the taste of those for whom the sauces are prepared be previously ascertained. Less of these high-flavoured herbs should be employed than of parsley. It is commend- able to mix a little parsley with fennel, which is too power- ful by itself. Butter melted in the water in which bruised celery or parsley seeds have been boiled will take the flavour when the fresh vegetables cannot be got; the seeds must either be boiled in a bag or strained off. The Essences of most herbs are now prepared for sale, and are useful to the cook. The flavour of the above herbs, where acids are admissible in the particular sauce, may be communicated in a more refined form to melted butter by the vinegars which they tincture. 260. Onion-Bauce.—Peel and throw a dozen of onions into salt and water to prevent their blackening. Boil them in plenty of water, and, if they are very acrid, change the water; chop them fine, and, with a wooden spoon, press them through a sieve; stir them into thin melted butter,