151 POACHER^S SOUP. 97, Poacher's Soup, Or Soup ci la Meg Merrilies^—simple and admirable. This savoury and highly-relishing sylvan stew-soup may be made of any or every thing known by the name of game, if fresh. Take from two to four pounds of the trimmings or coarse parts of venison, shin of beef, or knuckles or lean scrag of good mutton—all fresh. If game is plentiful, use no meat. Break the bones, and boil this in five pints of water, with celery, a couple of carrots and turnips, four onions, a bunch of parsley, and a quarter-ounce of pepper- corns, the larger portion Jamaica pepper. Strain this stock when it has simmered for three hours. Have ready cut down a black-cock, or wood-cock, a pheasant, half a hare, or a rabbit, a brace of partridges or grouse, or one of each (whichever is obtained most easily—a mixture is best), and season the pieces with mixed spices. These may be floured and browned in the frying-pan ; but as this is a process dictated by the eye as much as the palate, it is not necessary in making this soup. Put the cut game to the strained stock, with a dozen of small onions, a couple of heads of celery sliced, half a dozen peeled potatoes, or an ounce of rice- flour, and, when it boils, a very small white cabbage quar- tered ; black pepper, allspice, and salt, to taste. Let the soup simmer till the game is tender, but not overdone; and lest it should, the vegetables may be boiled half an hour before the meat.—Ohs. This soup may be coloured and flavoured with red wine and two spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, and enriched with forcemeat balls; but we think it best plain. Forcemeat balls are getting out of favour: they are considered indigestible, not without reason.^' Soups in which catsup is mixed should not be fully salted till the cat- sup is added, as it contains so much salt itself. * The Club were at variance on the above original receipt. The refined Jekyll declared for the simple racy flavour of the rude sylvan cheer; WiNTERBLOSSOM liked the addition of forcemeat-balls and catsup; and the Doctor—hovering between the tureens, like Macheath between his rival charmers—laid his ears deeply in both, but when compelled to decide, from habitual reverence for soups as they are, voted for the plain soup, as origi- nally swallowed with so much unction by Dominie Sampson. f Stew-soups, when not made cloyingly rich nor over-seasoned, as they always are by those whose trade it is to compound cordials to stimulate and pamper palled appetites and indurated palates, are, for common and general purposes, the most easy, economical, wholesome, and nutritious