168 CHAP. VII. FISH. 119. Baked Salmon-Trout, A handsome small dish, A TROUT of from two to four pounds will make this dish. Having cleaned and scaled it without cutting it much up, stuff with fish-forcemeat (See Forcemeats)^ and fix the tail in the mouth; or tie the fish up in curve lines, as if swimming, —a common way in boiling a long fish in a small kettle. Pour over it a marinade made thus:—Boil in vinegar and a good piece of butter, chopped carrots, onions, eschalots, with peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, basil, cloves, and allspice in grains. Baste with this frequently; when baked, strain off the liquor, and keep the fish hot while you boil it down; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, season with a little essence of ancho- vies, pepper, cayenne, and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve the trout with this sauce strained over it; or if the trout is not skinned, in a tureen in preference.—See No. 113. 120. To Boil Turbot.* A FISH of the middle size is the best. Choose the turbot thick in the belly, which should be of a cream-coloured white, and springy under the slightest pressure of the finger. When to be boiled, soak the fish in salt and water, to draw off the slime incidental to all flat fish. When thoroughly clean, score the skin along the backbone deeply to prevent the belly from cracking when the fish begins to swell in heating ; and this done, place it on a fish-strainer with the back undermost. If very large, clever cooks cut out the bone to some extent. The turbot-kettle must be roomy and nicely clean, as the colour of fish is even more easily injured * This pontifical fish is found of excellent quality in many parts of the British seas, and also on the Irish coast; but what are still esteemed the best, are, like the best cod, caught off the Dutch coast, and brought alive to London in well-boats. This fish is in season, like the haddock, from the time it has had a " leap in the May flood" till Michaelmas. The halibut, which in Scotland often usurps the name of turbot, is in reality a handsomer-looking fish, and excellent of its kind, but not equal in rich- ness, and far inferior in flavour to the genuine Bannoch Fluke of Mr Jonathan Oldbuck. Miss Edgeworth relates an anecdote of a Bishop— and we doubt not that he came to be an Archbishop—who, descending to his kitchen to superintend the dressing of a turbot, and finding that his cook had stupidly cut away the fins, set about sewing them on again with his own Episcopal fingers. This dignitary knew the value of turbot.