445 PLUM-PUDDING. of shred suet, from two to six of dry flour, four of stoned raisins, three of picked and plumped currants, a little allspice and nutmeg, or cinnamon. Thin this with four beat eggs and a little milk, and put in either a glass of sweet wine or a half-glass of rum or brandy, a saltspoonful of salt, and sugar to taste. There are a thousand ways of making a plum-pudding.—Ohs. The wine or spirits may be spared, and the pudding flavoured with distilled waters, as peach-water, orange-flower-water, etc. Bread-crumbs, or a part bread, make the pudding lighter than flour, and a spoonful of treacle deepens the colour; the materials, except the milk, eggs, and spirits, should be mixed the night before, and the whole must be vigorously and repeatedly stirred; tie firmly up, and boil for four hours at least. The Trinity Christmas Plum-Pudding, [We have had the felicity, on sundry " Merry Christmases," of sitting in the blaze of the Yule-clog," embowered among evergreens at " a good man's feast," who well understood, and himself looked, to the due concoc- tion and boiling of the pudding of his nation, weighing from some twenty- five to thirty pounds. For it we give his receipt, which we need not say is excellent; proved and approved.l The Trinity Christmas Pudding.—Three pounds stoned raisins, half Muscatel and half Yalentia, three pounds currants, three pounds beef-suet chopped very fine, sixty eggs, a pint and a half of milk, three pounds best moist sugar, the rind of six lemons minced very small, four pounds of fine flour, a half-pound treacle, four nutmegs grated, and cinnamon and cloves pounded to taste; one large tablespoonful of salt, two wine-glasses of brandy, two of rum, one of port; of sliced candied orange and lemon peel a half-ounce each, citron-peel a half-ounce. The whole must be thoroughly well mixed early on the 24th December, and boiled for ten hours on Christmas Eve, and four hours on Christmas Day, or from leaving chapel till dinner-time, taking care the whole time to keep the boiler filled with boiling water, and the fire strong and constant. Farther, in preparing for the boiler, the cloth, first scalded, afterwards squeezed, is put on the dresser and well dredged with flour, and then placed very evenly over a colander, so that it shall be exactly in the middle of it. The pudding is then put into the cloth, and well stirred up, a person plaiting the cloth so that it shall be evenly taken up and that no water shall get into it. It must then be excessively well tied up, allowing some room for the pudding swelling, and boiled. The Christmas Padding should be served up with a sprig of arbutus stuck in the middle, with one of its red berries, and a sprig of variegated holly with one or two berries on each side of it. This is to keep away the witches, 833. A superfine Plum-Pudding,—Take four ounces of pounded pudding-biscuit, or of good common biscuit, and two ounces of the best flour, a half-pound of bloom or mus- catel raisins stoned, the same quantity of fresh Zante currants picked and plumped, and a pound of kidney-suet stripped