475 JELLIES. Jellies to be sent to Table in a Shape. Clarify the sugar you use, whether the jelly is boiled or worked cold; for although the main excellence of these jellies is no doubt the flavour, their most obvious qualities are colour and transparency. The former depends on the materials employed, and on the manner of preparing ; the latter, in a great measure, upon the straining of the jelly. The utensils should all be brightly clean, the moulds of metal, but of earthenware for red jellies, and the spoons of silver or wood. Unless the moulds are set in ice,, the cook will often be disappointed of an entire shape.. 909. Calves'-Feet-Jelly. — French cooks candidly allow that Calves'-Feet-Jelly is an English invention, and give us credit for it. It is, indeed, the great chief of the whole tribe of moulded jellies, and deserves both the pains and praise bestowed on it. Prepared gelatines are now extensively sold, and printed directions given for their use. They are often convenient, but good cooks disapprove, and are perhaps a little jealous of them. A first-rate female cook lately said to us, "I have a better jelly from my feet, and a nice little dish besides of the meat, for the price of the dry stuffJ^ It is best to make the plain jelly or stock—if the " dry stuff is not used—the day before the dish is wanted. Clean and slit three or four calves' feet, and boil them slowly in five quarts of water till rather more than the half is wasted. Skim the stock from fat, strain it off, measure it, have a quart, and when cold and firm, remove the top-fat and the sediment. Put this jelly-stock, when wanted, into a nice preserving-pan, with white sugar to taste, the thin rind of two lemons, and the juice of from four to six; half-bottle or less of Madeira or Sherry, the whites of six eggs well whisked, and the shells crushed and thrown into the pan. Stir this well together while cold, and set the pan on a clear fire, taking care not to agitate the jelly after it begins to heat. Let it boil slowly for from twelve to fifteen minutes, then throw in a little cold water, and let it boil another five minutes. Set the pan, with a flannel cloth thrown over it, to settle for a quarter-hour or more; skim off the head care- fully, pour the clear jelly into a flannel jelly-bag; strain it, and, if necessary, return it into the jelly-bag, till it be per- fectly pellucid. Fill the wet moulds.