SOUPS. 357 common at English tables, that the best part of them will be found in our Chapter, Soups. There are still a few entitled to a place here.—See also Nos. 68, 72, 63, 64, etc. 608. Potage au Biz, or Bice-Soup.—llsiYQ a strong, clear, louillon (No. 59 or 63) of veal or beef, or of a mixture of these meats, made as directed for stock-broth. Put a suffi- cient quantity of this (well seasoned) boiling into a tureen, in which are two ounces of warm rice, prepared as directed for Mullagatawnj, in Chapter, National Dishes. Another way which makes two Dishes. — Boil a neatly- trussed large fowl or capon in grand bouillon with two cloves, two onions, a fagot of sweet herbs, and salt. Skim it well to make the soup clear. Serve the fowl with a little great salt sprinkled on the breast [au gros sel)^ and a spoonful of the clear soup about it. Strain the soup on boiled rice, taking out the onions, cloves, and herbs; and put a little brown gravy or browning to it to improve the colour.—See Nos. 66 and 98. 609. Potage de Levrauts a la Saint George,—(Careme's receipt for Hare-soup, named from St George the Patron Saint of England.)—" Take the fillets from two leverets, cut up their carcasses, and sweat them with a little fresh butter over a slow stove, mix in a spoonful of flour, and let them sweat a few minutes longer; then add half a bottle of champagne, one of claret, and four ladlefuls of consomme, a pottle of mushrooms, a truffle cut in quarters, two onions, and a bunch of parsley tied up, with half a bay-leaf, a little thyme, basil, marjoram, and savory, whole pepper, two cloves, mace, cayenne, and a clove of garlic. Let this boil gently by the side of a stove, and skim it; strain, and reduce it one-fourth, and when serving put it into the tureen in which you have placed the fillets of the leverets sauted in escalopes (cut in scollop shapes and fried), and thirty small quenelles made of the flesh of a partridge, with three pottles of mushrooms turned, cut in ribbons; and four truffles sliced and sauted in butter. The ingredients composing this soup require much care that they be perfectly done, and of a relishing flavour. The soup must not boil, or the escalopes will become hard.'' 610. Potage au Vermicelli.—Prepare four ounces of ver- micelli by blanching it, and boiling it in broth. Make the