CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 430 or veal-udder. Forcemeat-iDalls, layers of forcemeat, and yolks of hard eggs, may be added at pleasure. Make a good gravy of knuckle or scrag of veal or of mutton, seasoning it with white peppercorns, onions, and parsley. Strain this gravy, which must be boiled to a jelly, and put it to the pie. Cover with a rich ornamented puff-paste; and bake the pie, if large, for an hour and a quarter, covering it with paper, or a tin dish-cover, lest the paste be scorched or over-done. — Ohs, The chickens may be stuffed, if very small, and laid on forcemeat. This pie may be made flat like a tourte^ in the French style. It and all pies may be made plainer at the discretion of the cook. It is the favourite pie of France and England, next to a game pie, and is as good cold as hot. If to eat cold, bone the chicken, and place alternate layers of chicken and forcemeat. It is always good to bone pie-meat. 795. Giblet-Pie.—Clean and stew the giblets in broth, with peppercorns, onions, and parsley. When tender, take them up, and when cold, cut them in neat pieces. Lay a beef- steak in the bottom of a small pie-dish, or a layer of force- meat made of seasonings, minced veal or beef, and a little ham. Put in the cut giblets, and strew in shred onion. Strain the liquor over them in which they were stewed, and place a few boiled potatoes sliced above all. Cover with a common crust, or for a plain dish with mashed potatoes.— Obs. A giblet pie is sometimes made with a pudding in it, composed of the blood of the goose or ducks strained, a little boiled rice, suet and onion shred fine, with pepper and salt. Keep the skin of the neck of the goose, and stuff it with this. Close the pudding at both ends, turn it round, and place it in the centre of the pie-dish. 796. A Babbit or Fife Pie.—This may be made as directed for chicken-pie; or more plainly as giblet-pie, making a forcemeat of the livers parboiled, chopped parsley, and an- chovies, or eschalot, pepper, salt, and a little butter or shred suet. A few thin slices or gobbets of well-flavoured bacon will greatly improve a rabbit-pie. It is now sometimes called a Fife-pie^ in honour of the Thane, we presume.—Obs, Rabbit-pie may be made with onion-sauce : but first parboil the onions to take off the excess of their flavour. 797. Partridge-Pie.—Clean and truss four, or, if large, three partridges, cutting off the legs at the second joint.