401 HOTCH-POTCH SKINK. meat, whether lamb or mutton, being perfectly fresh, and the vegetables being all young, full of sweet juices, and boiled till of good consistence. The sweet, white turnip is best for hotch-potch, or the small, round, smooth-grained yellow kind peculiar to Scotland, which is almost equal to the genuine Navet of France. Mutton-chops make excellent hotch-potch without lamb-steaks. Parsley shred, white cabbage, asparagus-points, or cauliflower, may be added to the other vegetables or not, at pleasure. The meat may be kept whole, and served separately.—See No. 99. Of this receipt, when it first appeared in our work, a great poet, and no contemptible gastronome, wrote, ^' Eve might have prepared it for Adam in Paradise.'' There are, however, many varieties of Scottish hotch-potch; we give what we consider the best and most national. 729. Winter Hotch-Potch^ or German Broth.—This dish may be made of either fresh beef, or of a neck or back-ribs of mutton, or of a mixture of both. Cut four pounds of meat into handsome pieces. Boil and skim this well, and add carrots and turnips sliced, small leeks and parsley cut down, and some German greens shred, and if tender, put in only a half-hour before the soup is completed. Season with pepper and salt. The quantity of vegetables must be suited to the quantity of meat, so that the soup may have consis- tence, but not be disagreeably thick. Serve the meat and soup together. Have, if you like, rice, or dry but melting, green pease boiled in it, which last is an improvement.—Ohs» The meat may be kept whole and served as Bouilli Ordi- naire^ No. 99. Another way.—Take a neck of mutton, a large pint of cut carrot and turnip, and three-quarters of a pound of well- soaked pease. Boil for an hour and a half; but in half an hour add a few small mutton-chops to serve in the tureen, and minced parsley and onion. The pease may be previously boiled for an hour, or added pulped. The turnip may also be pulped. Celery is a great improvement. Serve the meat as bouilli. 730. To make SkinJc^ an old fashioned Scottish Stew-Soup, —Take two small shins of sliced beef, put them on with two gallons of water; let them boil for six hours, taking care to skim the soup well all the time, as the gravy should be very