137 PEASE-SOUP. broken vermicelli), and, taking care they do not run together, boil for ten minutes and serve the soup. Good French cooks put nutmeg and white pepper to the paste. Rasped cocoa-nut we consider a fine ingredient in these soups if made as white potages ; and if cocoa-nut is used in white soup, made of veal or fowl stock, it takes a name from the nut, and is Cocoa-Soup. Cream should be added, and wine 7na^, with sufficient cayenne, and a bit of sugar. 75. Green Pease-Soup,—Ifae^re. Have shelled fully three pints of fresh-gathered marrowy pease. In shelling, separate the old from the young. Melt half a pound of fresh butter in a stew-pan, put to it four imperial pints of boiling water, a slice of bread, a quart of shelled pease, using the old ones, some roughly-chopped green onions, spinage, and green lettuce, salt, and two dozen corns of white and Jamaica pepper. Stew till the pease will pulp back into the liquor from which they are strained ; or they may be pounded in a mortar. To this add a pint more of young pease, the white of a lettuce chopped, and, if ap- proved, a sliced cucumber, first sprinkling the slices with salt, soaking and draining them. If the soup is thought too thin, add arrow-root or rice-flour; if too maigre, allow more butter ; if not green enough, add a little spinage chopped, or a glass of green spinage-liquor, made by par- boiling and squeezing the vegetable. Stew for half an hour, but do not let the soup boil, or the green colour will become a tawny yellow. Green shred mint in a very small quantity may be added to flavour the soup five minutes before it is dished. Serve with dice of fried bread.—Obs, This summer soup may be made gras from the liquor in which chickens, lamb, fowl, veal, or mutton have been boiled. If the pease are not quite young and sweet, a little sugar may be em- ployed, and consequently less salt. Pease, fresh gathered and quickly cooked, are as superior to those exposed in the market as is a fresh-caught herring or mackerel from one two days old. Cliantilly Soup is made by boiling for a minute or two a puree of these delicate pease in seasoned stock. 76. Green Asparagus-Soup. Make this as No. 75. Slice and pulp the thick part of the cooked asparagus; put the other part, cut into nice