265 MUSTARDS AND CATSUPS. only horseradisli sliced may be added, or rather substituted for part of the eschalots. 359. Mustards. Mustard is best when nearly fresh made. It is prepared in a variety of ways. 360. Good Common Mustard, Mix by degrees the best mustard-flour with boiling water and a little salt, rubbing a long time till it be perfectly smooth. The less made at a time the better; but it will keep for some time in a pot with a ground stopper 361. Mild Mustard.—Mix as above, but use hot milk instead of water, and sugar with the salt. 362. Tartar Mustard^ and Imitation of Patent Mustard.— Scrape a cupful of horseradish, and chop a half-clove of garlic. Infuse this with salt enough to make a pint of boiling water rather brackish. Let it stand for a night; strain and mix with it the best mustard-flour, leaving the mustard rather thick. Cayenne may be added. Keep it close-stopped. — Tartar or pungent Mustard is made with cayenne, using horseradish-vinegar instead of water. French Mustard is imported. An imitation of it is made by making a paste with Durham mustard and salad-oil, and rubbing this down, when wanted, with a mixture of the flavoured vinegars ; tarragon in particular. — N.B. For mustard-pots always have well-ground close-fitting stoppers. 363. Catsups. Mushroom Catsup is the most esteemed of this class of preparations. Large flap-mushrooms, which contain a great deal of juice, and do not answer for pickling or stewing, are well adapted to making catsup. Let the mushrooms be wholesome. See Nos. 213, 214.—Without washing, pick off whatever looks dirty or spoiled, and, breaking in pieces, lay them in an earthen jar, strewing salt about them. Throw a folded cloth over the jar, and set it by the fire, or in a very cool oven. Let it remain thus for twenty- four hours or more, and then strain off the liquor into a clean saucepan. To every quart of strained liquor put a half- ounce of black peppercorns, a quarter-ounce of allspice in corns, a half-ounce of fresh sliced ginger, two or three blades M