179 TO FRY HADDOCKS, ETC. fat^ till the whole are finished. Garnish with fried oysters, or a few sprigs of curled parsley, and sliced lemon, and serve very hot, with shrimp-sauce, if any be used. If small fish are not cut in pieces, they may be slit either in the back, or slightly scored;—the same frying-fat will serve more than once, if strained. Whitings and small haddocks may have the tail pushed through the eye. French cooks, and the best English ones, serve fried fish on a napkin, which always looks well if neatly done. In Scotland, her- rings are often dipped in oatmeal, and fried in plenty of dripping with sliced onions. In France mustard is served with fried fresh herrings. All these fish are occasionally broiled either split {Scottice, speldered) or whole. Wipe them very dry, dust them with flour, and broil over a clear moderate fire. Haddocks, split and boned {pipers), salted and hung for a day or two, are very good broiled. Skin them, dust with flour, lay them on a gridiron, and, if not split, put the opened part downmost. Turn them a few minutes on both sides, and they are done. Serve with cold butter. They are admirable for breakfast. 137. Finnan Haddocks (so named from a hamlet about six miles south of Aberdeen) should be skinned, broiled over a quick and clear fire, and served in a napkin. Those of the best quality are of a creamy-yellow colour, and have a peculiar odour, from the nature of the material used in preparing them. When kept above forty-eight hours they lose much of their delicacy. Broiled haddocks, whether fresh, rizzared^ or as Finnans, are held in great esteem by those who relish a good breakfast. Finnans are now regu- larly forwarded from Aberdeen to Edinburgh and London by railways and steamers. They may be dressed in a bread- toaster before the fire, or in a Dutch oven. An imitation of Finnans is now made at many parts of the east coast; a tolerable one by dipping the split fish in pyroligneous acid, as above, and smoking them.*—See No. 1196. * " A Finnan haddock," writes Sir Walter Scott, " has a relish of a very peculiar and delicate flavour, inimitable on any other coast than that of Aberdeenshire. Some of our Edinburgh philosophers tried to produce their equal in vain. I was one of a party at a dinner where the philosophi- cal haddocks were placed in competition with the genuine Finnan fish. These were served round without distinguishing whence they came ; but only one gentleman out of twelve present espoused the cause of philoso- phy."—BoswelVs Life ofJolmson^ by Groher^ vol. ii. p. 343, note.