254 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. liquor, strain it, and put it to them, and give them a scald in it, and a soft boil. Take them up with a spoon with holes, and drain on a sieve, but keep hot. Let the liquor settle: pour it off the sediment. After picking and bearding the oysters one by one, return them into a stewpan, in which there must be in the proportion of half a pint of thick melted butter to two dozen of oysters, or to eighteen large divided ones. Strain the liquor over them :—or, letting them come to boil, set them in a bain marie or by the side of the fire that they may become tender : quick boiling hardens oysters. When ready, stir in a spoonful of hot cream. A squeeze of lemon-juice is a simple and tasteful addition. Some cooks add mace, nutmeg, and, if for fish, anchovy, etc., when a piquant sauce is wanted.—Obs, In oyster-sauce, it is good family practice, both from reasons of economy and palatic motives, to serve stewed oysters in one sauce-tureen, and melted iDutter in another. The quantities can then be mixed on the plate of each guest, and the oysters left may be after- wards grilled, scalloped, etc. Besides, it is the only way by which one can always escape the cook's detestable over- dose of flour. French cooks put flour and milk to oyster- sauce, and very little butter. English oyster-sauce and fish- cookery in general is much superior. In Scotland oysters are rarely used in sauces, save for fish. Our national cookery, if less savoury, is more delicate. 312. Shrimp-Sauce and CocJde-Sauce.—Shell and wash the fish carefully, and simmer them for a few seconds in melted butter; add a small spoonful of boiling cream. A squeeze of lemon and a little cayenne is the only addition we can recommend, though various pungent flavours are added to this simple and agreeable sauce. 313. Anchovy'Sauce,—Bone and pound some anchovies very smooth with a bit of butter; stir this into thick melted butter, in the proportion of three anchovies to the half-pint: —or melt them in vinegar or wine. A large spoonful of the essence of anchovies may be substituted.—Obs. This is a sauce which ought to be piquant; the cook is therefore at liberty to make whatever additions she pleases ; — cayenne, soy, essence of anchovy, lemon-pickle, horseradish, mustard, eschalot, gherkins, cavice, vinegars,—in short, the whole circle of the pungent and sharp flavours may be pressed into