450 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. Tapioca^ that is, potato-flour in grains, requires no soaking. If the milk is hot, a half-hour will do. If—Avhich is a better way—it be first soaked in tepid water, drain it and mix with the milk. This is a plain, good pudding, to which nutmeg alone, which is now cheap, makes a sufficient season- ing, with a little wine.—We know of no more delicate pre- paration than genuine tapioca, boiled first in milk, then add- ing sugar and lemon seasonings, again boiled and moulded, and when cold turned out and eaten with plain cream. 841. Bakevjell-Pudding^ or preserved Fruit-Pudding with custard-mixture.—Place a layer of preserved fruit (from humble gooseberries up to exquisite peaches or apricots) in a tart-dish bordered with paste. Mix with it a good deal of candied citron or orange peel cut in thin strips. Make a custard of five beat eggs, five ounces of melted fresh butter, six of pounded loaf-sugar, and three spoonfuls of lemon- brandy. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. This favourite pudding may be called the successor of the Marrow-pudding in many provincial parts of England, and is an improve- ment on that older favourite of John Bull. 84 P. The Quaker^sJ otherwise a Modern Welsh Pudding, —To a half-pound of nicely-chopped fresh suet, add a half- pound of grated stale bread, a half-pound of loaf-sugar pounded, the grated rind of one large lemon, and the juice of two. Cement the whole with two beat eggs. Butter a tin-mould with a grooved lid, and steam or boil the pudding for two hours. This we consider an excellent plain family pudding, which the lemon seasoning renders somewhat re- fined when compared with common fat puddings. Liverpool-Pudding.—Make exactly as the Quaker's, substi- tuting fresh figs chopped for the sugar, and a little milk. 842. Sweet Macaroni-Puddi7ig.—Simmer the macaroni in milk and water for fifteen minutes, add new milk to thin it; and when cold, add three beat yolks of eggs. Season with nutmeg, cinnamon, and a little almond-flower-water or noyeau, and sweeten with fine sugar. A little ginger- wine or lemon-wine is an improvement. A layer of orange- marmalade, or apricot-jam, in the centre of the pudding, is an excellent addition: Or, French plums, stoned and plumped, with shred marrow finely beat, (or mutton-suet), and sugar, may be placed in a layer over the macaroni. It