FISH-SAUCES. 257 seed, with salt and a high relish of cayenne, Jamaica, and black pepper. When well pounded, mix with these ingre- dients a half-pint of cucnmber-vinegar, a quarter-pint of eschalot, and the same quantity of horseradish-vinegar. Let these infuse in a close-stopped jar by the fire for a few days, and strain, and bottle in small vials for use. 323. Quin's* Fish-Sauce^ a Store-Sauce,—Two glasses of claret and two of walnut-pickle, with four of mushroom- catsup ; six large pounded anchovies with their pickle, and six eschalots pounded; a half-wineglassful of soy, black and cayenne pepper. Let this simmer slowly by the side of the fire till the bones of the anchovies dissolve. Strain it off, and, when cold, bottle for use.-j- * Had this great man lived in our day, he would, we think, instead of so much heavy catsup and coarse walnut-pickle, have adopted some delicately- flavoured vinegar as a substitute for about the one-half of these ingredients, — such as eschalot or burnet-vinegar, or even fiery horseradish-tincture. As a mere untravelled practical Englishman, and, moreover, of the Old School, QuiN, no doubt, ranks high in the lists of gastronomy. Still he is completely distanced by many moderns, both in love for, and knowledge of the science. Among the most noted of the moderns, we beg to introduce our readers to Mr Eogerson, an enthusiast greater than Sampayo, and, moreover, a martyr. He, as may be presumed, was educated at that Uni- versity where the rudiments of palatic science are the most thoroughly impressed on the ductile organs of youth. His father, a gentleman of Gloucestershire, sent him abroad to make the grand tour; upon which journey, says our informant, young RoaERSON attended to nothing but the various modes of cookery, and methods of eating and drinking luxuriously. Before his return his father died, and he entered into the possession of a very large moneyed fortune, and a small landed estate. He was now able to look over his notes of epicurism, and to discover where the most ex- quisite dishes were to be had, and the best cooks procured. He had no other servants in his house than cooks : his butler, footman, housekeeper, coachman, and grooms, were all cooks. He had three Italian cooks, one from Florence, another from Sienna, and a third from Viterbo, for dressing one dish, the docce jpiccante of Florence. He had a messenger constantly on the road between Brittany and London, to bring him the eggs of a certain sort of plover, found near St Maloes. He has eaten a single dinner at the expense of fifty-eight pounds, though himself only sat down to it, and there were but two dishes. He counted the minutes between meals, and seemed totally absorbed in the idea, or in the action of eating: yet his stomach was very small,—it was the exquisite flavour alone that he sought. In nine years he found his table dreadfully abridged by the ruin of his fortune, and himself hastening to poverty. This made him melancholy and brought on disease. When totally ruined (having spent near £150,000), a friend gave him a guinea to keep him from starving; and he was found in a garret soon after roasting an ortolan with his own hands. We regret to add that, a few days afterwards, this extraordinary youth shot himself. We hope that his notes are not lost to the dining world. f Grastronomers will feel a natural desire to know what was considered