428 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 788. A Bride^s Pie,—a Scottish Pie.—This is jnst a very nice mince-pie. Chop the meat of two large calves' feet, boiled as in the former receipt; a pound of mutton-suet, and a pound of pared apples, separately, till they are fine. Mix them, and add to them a half-poimd of picked and rubbed currants, and the same quantity of raisins stoned and chopped. Season with a quarter-ounce of cinnamon in powder, two drachms of grated nutmeg and pounded mace, an ounce of candied citron, and double the quantity of lemon-peel, both sliced thin, a glass of brandy, and another of Madeira. Line a tin pan, which has a slip-bottom, with puff-paste, and put the minced meat, etc., into it. Roll out a cover for the pie, which usually has a glass or a gold ring concealed some- where in the crust, and should be embellished with appro- priate ornaments and devices, as Cupids, turtles, torches, flames, darts, and other emblematic devices of the wedding- cake kind. 789. A Mutton-Pie, — Cut two or three pounds of the back-ribs or loin into handsome chops ; chop off all the bone, flatten and season the chops with pepper and salt. Place them neatly in the dish; put in a glassful of gravy or water, and strew minced parsley and onion over the meat, and with puff-paste made of a pound of flour, and a half- pound of butter, cover it,* Less paste will do for this pie, and of a cheaper kind. — Ohs. Mutton or veal pie may be seasoned with curry-powder. Mutton or veal may be made into small raised pies of an oval, or other form, or in saucers, or other shapes, and re-warmed in a Dutch oven when wanted for hot suppers or luncheon. A Squab Pie is made of mutton- chops, cut apples, and shred onions, with spices and a little sugar. Nearly obsolete. 790. Lamb-Pie.—This is made of either the loin, back- ribs, or breast, not too fat^ cutting out the bone, but always leaving the gristles. Do not season this delicate meat over highly. Put a little jelly-gravy in the dish if the pie is to be eaten cold, in which state a lamb-pie is exceedingly good. Hard-boiled eggs may be added. Use puff-paste. 79L Pigeon-Pie.—Clean and season the pigeons well in the inside with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Put into each * A corresponding member of the Club recommends Sauce Robert for mutton-pie, but made without lemon-juice. Approved.