308 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES Veal Sausage^ see Sausages ; and for several excellent dishes of veal, see French Cookery, from No. 627 to 643. Made-Dishes of Mutton. See JRoasts of Mutton^ P^g^ ^6, and Reform Club Cutlets^ No. 475, also from No. 644 onwards. 467. A Haricot'^ of Mutton.—Cut from three to four pounds of the back-ribs into handsome chops, trimming away the fat and bones. Flatten the chops with a cutlet-bat; season them well with mixed spices (No. 334), flour, and brown them lightly in the fryingpan, over a quick fire, and then put them into a stewpan with their own gravy, and a quart of strained stock, in which onions, a turnip, a carrot, and a fagot of parsley have been boiled. When the chops have stewed slowly for some time, put in one large or two middle-sized carrots cut into slices and marked on the edges, a dozen pieces of turnip scooped to the size of large marbles, and a half-dozen button-onions either roasted or parboiled and peeled. Yv^hen the chops are quite tender, skim, thicken, and season the gravy with pepper and salt. Dish the chops in a soup-dish, and pour the gravy and roots over them. What is left of the fore-quarter when a shoulder is cut off to roast, will make excellent family haricot or Irish stew.— Ohs. Celery or cucumber may be put to the haricot, and also cut pickles, or a spoonful of catsup. Brown haricot is made with carrot, yellow turnip, and onions; 'White haricot^ of haricot beans, white turnip, endive, celery, etc. Haricot is an excellent plain dish, nourishing and savoury, contain- ing a judicious combination of meat, fluid, and roots, and is one of the best plain ways in which veal cutlets, mutton- chops, or rump-steaks can be prepared. Haricot may be made of the loin, but not so economically as of the neck or back-ribs. These chops answer well with cabbage braised and quartered.— See p. Ill, and Nos. 474, 475, and from No. 644 to 655. 468. Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters,—'^2iWQ a large shoulder, which has been kept till tender, boned, and highly seasoned with salt and pepper. Lay some bearded oysters inside the meat, roll it up firm^ bind it with fillets of tape, * Haricot properly and originally meant French beans. Now with us it signifies meat cut in chops, and stewed with vegetables of different kinds.