CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES. 278 pursuits, attending in the kitchens of hotels and clubs, to learn cookery. But enough of this ; and presupposing that the cook thoroughly understands at least the rudiments of her art, and many of its plainer but still most important branches, we proceed to Made-Dishes. What are with us technically termed Made-Dishes (the entrees and entremets of the French Kitchen) presupposes either a more elaborate mode of cookery than plain frying^ hroiling^ or roasting; or else some combination of those elementary processes, — as, for example, half-roasting and finishing in the stewpan, which is a common way of dressing a ragout. Most dishes called with us French dishes^ are of the class Made-dishes^ such d,^ fricassees and ragouts^ meat braised^ larded^ Sec, and so are hashes, curries, and generally all viands that are re-dressed or re-made. To understand this chapter properly, the young cook should first study the directions for braising, for cooking in a poele or a blanc ; also the mixing of forcemeat, cook's peppers, and other seasonings, and how to make and use all sorts of garnishes, as sippets, fried parsley, casserole edgings, crous- tades, bread-borders, farce-balls, egg-balls, grilled toasts of all kinds ; also serving in vol-au-vent, in timhalles, glazing and demi-glazing, glazing onions and celery for garnishes, paste and rice borders, dishing in various forms, and many other matters. She should understand the qualities and uses of the different catsups and flavoured wines and vinegars ; and what flavours are best adapted to the several meats ; as horseradish with dishes of beef; lemon-peel or lemon-juice with veal, &c. These things should be diligently studied, imder the respective heads, as pointed out in the Index.— Study also our French Cookery and Glossary of Culinary Terms. To dress a Made-dish properly requires rather knowledge, contrivance, and resource, than great manual dexterity. It is, in fact, more difficult to broil a chop properly than to dress a ragout, provided the cook knows how to proportion seasonings, and to blend flavours with taste and judgment. Stewing is the commonest form of dressing Made-dishes, and is besides that mode of cookery which is best adapted to all dry, fibrous, harsh meats. Its perfection consists in the extreme slowness with which the process is conducted*;