381 FISH. dish, which, if not a fine one, may be served on another with a puffed napkin: soles, brill, and any other cold white fish of a previous day, may be thus dressed. 6822. Fillets of Haddocks^ Whitings^ or Codlings^ with Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.—The French dress fish very fre- quently in fillets^ cut neatly from the bone the long way on both sides. The practice is good, and now generally adopted at home, as it saves trouble to the eater; the dish looks bet- ter, and if the debris is put to the stockpot for fish-soups or sauces, there is no waste. Cut the two sides or long fillets clean off the bone.—Dry and flour, or better, egg and crumb them. Fry them, and, when ready, serve under them a simple Maitre d^Hotel saucej made thus:—Stew in butter a large spoonful of chopped young onions, parsley, and mush- rooms, with pepper and salt to taste. This we conceive a useful general receipt. 683. Fish-Puddingy a common and favourite Way of Dress- ing Cold Fish.—Take any sort of cold fish. Trim and chop from one to two pounds of it, and season this with chopped onions, parsley, and mushrooms; also salt and pepper; pound the whole with two raw eggs. Line a pudding- mould with slices of fat bacon or buttered paper, and put in alternate layers of the fish, and of godiveau^ No. 692^. Cover with bacon, and bake for an hour and a half, if the pudding is large. Pick off the bacon, or paper ; turn it out, and serve with a plain brown sauce poured over it. 684. To Dress Fillets of Cold Pike d la Maitre d'Hotel.— Cut them neatly. Stew them in butter, with pepper and salt. Dish the fillets neatly, and sauce them with a maitre d^hotel sauce. No. 682^, to which you put a flavour of anchovy.—Obs. French cooks serve cold fish, re-dressed as vols-au-vent, croquets, salades, boudins^ and in many inge- nious modes as to outward show. See No. 123, and onwards. 685. Matelote de Carp a la Royale.—Clean what number of carp you choose. Cut them into three or four pieces, according to the size. Dry these, and stew them very slowly in red wine. Make a sauce matelote (see No. 596), but use the wine in which the carp is stewed both from economy and to have the flavour of the fish. Add also a dozen of small mushrooms. Dish the fish, the heads in the middle, and strain the prepared sauce hot over them. Place