252 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. finely pounded sugar; pour backwards and forwards from the saucepan to a basin to prevent curdling, and let it just come to the eve of boiling, constantly stirring it. Serve the sauce in a sauce-tureen, and grate a little nutmeg on the top of it. Butter and rice-flour or arrowroot may be added to thicken it. See Car erne's, No. 834^. 305. Caudle or Wine Sauce, for a Plum or Marrow Pudding.—A glass of white wine a half-glass of lemon brandy, or old rum, or rum-shrub, pounded sugar to taste, the grate of a lemon, and a little cinnamon, stirred into some thickened melted fresh butter; grate a little nutmeg on the top. 306. Pudding-Sauce, and a Store Punch-Sauce.— Heat half a pint of white wine, sweetened to taste with pounded-sugar; and with this, as in making custard, mix the beat yolks of four eggs. Mill the sauce over a slow heat with a chocolate stick till it thickens; add a few drops of essence of lemon and of lemon-peel.—N. B. The brandy or Kirchen- wasser, got from abroad, which is half cherry-juice sweet- ened, is excellent for fat pudding-sauces. Thicken it with egg or cream.—A Store-Sauce, A pint of canary, sherry, or Madeira, a quarter-pint of old rum (pine-apple is best), or of good brandy; a quarter pint of Curagoa, a half-ounce of good lemon-peel, the same quantity of Seville orange-peel, and half-an-ounce of mace. Infuse this for ten days, shaking the bottle every day. Strain it, and add a half-pint or more of rich clarified syrup. Bottle for use. This may be heated with wine, cream, thin syrup, eau sucre, etc., as a ready sauce to many sorts of puddings and sweet made-dishes. It is then Punch-Sauce. 307. Essence of Ham, or Ham-Sauce.—This may be bought in London and other large cities. In country situa- tions, a highly-flavoured gravy, which is, for plain purposes, a great improvement to other gravies, may be made by breaking ham-bones to pieces, and cutting down all the good pickings left on them. Let this just catch over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, first adding butter or meat- gravy (jelly-gravy if you have it), and stirring it lest the meat and bones burn. When the ham has been treated in this way for some time, add rich stock, a bundle of sweet herbs, and onion and peppercorns; strain it for use.—Obs.