TIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING AND ROASTING. 541 Leg of Lamb, five pounds, simmer one hour and twenty-five minutes. Neck of Lamb, three pounds and a half, one hour and a quarter. Leg of corned Pork, of six to eight pounds, two and a half hours. Hand or Spring of Pork, five to six pounds, two hours. Piece of Bacon, from three to four pounds, one hour and a half. Neck of Veal, five pounds, two hours. Breast of Veal, seven pounds, simmer two hours and a half. Knuckle, from five to seven pounds, two hours and a half. Calf's Head, simmer three hours. Pig's Cheek, two hours, or more. Pig's Feet, three hours. Tripe, to simmer from six to eight hours, or more. Small Hen Turkey, from one hour to one and a half. Fowls, if large, from one hour to one and a half. Much longer if old. Rabbits, from one hour to one hour and twenty minutes. Small Chickens, from twenty minutes to a half hour.—Partridges, a half hour.—Pigeons, twenty minutes.— Pheasants, from an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to the size and age. Young Greens and Cabbage, quick boiling, twenty-five minutes. Artichokes, thirty-five minutes, whan probe. Green Pease, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turnips and Carrots, from fifteen to fifty, or more minutes, according to age and size, when probe. French Beans, thirty minutes, when probe. Brocoli and Cauliflower, from twelve to fifteen minutes. Asparagus, from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Beetroots, two hours and a half, or more. When baked, two hours. Parsnips, thirty-five minutes, when probe. Spinage, from ten to fifteen minutes. Jerusalem Artichokes, peeled, from twenty-five to thirty minutes. A Turbot, of ten to fourteen pounds, put in cold water, a full half hour's simmering, after it fairly boils. Cod's Head and Shoulders, if large, an hour from the time it is put on a good fire, with cold water and salt. A Salmon, or thick Jole, nearly an hour from the time it is put on with cold water and salt. Slices of Salmon, or Cod, crimped, put in boiling water, from twelve to fifteen minutes.—Eels and small Flat Fish are soon boiled.—Had- docks, Whitings, Soles, etc., according to size. Soles, middle size, put on with boiling water, from six to ten minutes; their texture does not require long cooking. Hemngs and Mackerel, from seven to ten minutes. Lobsters and Crabs, about twenty minutes, if of average size. Skate, from twelve to twenty minutes' simmering, according to thick- ness. Roasting, Mean Time, A Sirloin, from fifteen to eighteen pounds, four hours. Ribs, same weight, four hours. Collared Ribs, about three and a half hours. Haunch of Venison, from three to four hours. Haunch, if in paper and paste, from four to five hours.