439 PATTIES. and bake it on oiled paper, laid on tin plates, in a moderate oven. When cold take off the paper.—There are fifty other little things made of pastry and bits of sweetmeats, which cannot be enumerated here, as Sweet Sandwiches^ Gimblettes, GenoiseSj etc., etc. EaYOnry Patties. Patties, like small vols-au-vent and hors d'oeuvres (served in paste), and small rissoles and croquets, are an elegant, though secondary class of culinary preparations, and are as much admired by the genteel economist as the gourmand. They are the petits pates of the French kitchen. Where dinners have been given, or are in course of preparation, it is easy to make a dish of savoury patties, with small trouble and almost no expense. Patties, like the preparations named above, are made of a variety of things, as cold veal, fowl, rabbit, hare, lobsters, oysters, etc. They admit of all man- ner of seasonings, but must be nicely minced and served. They are generally baked as directed below, but may be made by frying, either for a dish or a garnish to other dishes. They are savoury or piquant hot preparations, proper for first and second courses, and partaken of between the prin- cipal dishes. 820. To make Crust for Savour?/ Patties.—Koll out puff- paste thin, and line small patty-pans. Cut out the tops on paper, with a tin stamp in form of a star, or any handsome shape. Ornament the tops neatly; lay a piece of paper crumpled up or a bit of bread into the lined patty-pan, to support the top when baking, and then put on the top. Bake the patty-crusts, and ice them. When to be served, take off the tops and pick out the paper, fill up with the hot mince, and put on the tops neatly, taking care not to fill the patties so full as to run over.—Obs. This plan of baking the crust separately will, on trial, be found superior to filling patties, or things of the sort, at the first. The icing may be omitted. Have at least a dozen for a dish; dress them on a napkin pyramidically. 821. Chicken and Ram Patties.—Skin and mince very finely the breast or white fleshy parts of a cold chicken, and about half the quantity of lean ham, or of tongue highly flavoured. Have, in a nice small saucepan, a little good gravy drawn from bones or trimmings, or the jelly of roast