65 CHAP. I. BOILING. fire, if necessary, to remove the scnm completely; then throw in a little cold water, which will check the boiling and throw up what scum remains.—T/«5 is the first step hy which Soups, Gravies, and Sauces are best cleared and re- fined.—When the skimmed pot must be eked, let it be with boiling water. Milk, and floured cloths as wrappers, are often employed in boiling white meats and poultry, to make them look whiter. The practice is questionable. Soaking in cold or lukewarm water, or, according to circumstances, hlaiiching, careful skimming, and slow boiling, especially at first, are equal to any other method. Yet a leg of mutton, or fowls, may sometimes, with advantage, be boiled in a floured cloth. No certain rule can be given for the length of time necessary to boil meat or fish. Dried tongues, for example, or hams, will take double the time to simmer which will boil a fresh leg of mutton; and, again, these will differ from each other, from hardness, while pork, though a little salted, will take longer to boil than either veal or lamb- Of all meat the hind-quarter, from the solid and compact texture of the fibre, will require longer boil- ing or simmering than the fore-quarter. The state of the weather, so important in roasting, less affects things that are boiled. As a general rule, liable however to many excep- tions, from 15 to 25 minutes of time, and a quart of water (less where strong soup is wanted), is allowed by cooks to the pound of fresh meat; and from 25 to 35 minutes for salted meat, with a fourth more water.* But no length of boiling will ever make highly dried meats fit to be eaten, without sufficient previous soaking. This is emphatically true of goat and pork hams, rein-deer tongues, dried salt fish, etc. Capital blunders are often made in this depart- ment; and provisions which excel all others for relishes, breakfasts, and luncheons, are made good for nothing but to try the temper, and break the teeth of the eater, who might as well diet upon " spur leather whang." Smoked and dried meats and dried fish sometimes require to be soaked from one hour to four or five days, changing the * There is palpable absurdity in this universal culinary rule. A quarter of an hour will not be nearly enough of time to boil one pound of meat, nor a half hour to boil two, still less three quarters of an hour for three pounds. But, again, twelve hours' boiling would destroy forty-eight pounds. It must be kept in mind that large joints expose corresponding surfaces to heat, whether in pots or on spits.