582 CHAP. III. BUTTER-MAKING. dairy-farmer, dealer in cheese and butter in Edinburgh, it is seen that with his thirty cows he follows very nearly the practice of Mr Ayton of Glasgow, which has been for some years before our readers. In Mr Ballantine's dairy, the morning milking is placed in zinc coolers. Zinc and lead are, however, now denounced by scientific men as highly pernicious. The evening's milking is added to this, in a vat; and that of a second day's milking is managed in the same way. The milk of two days stands in the vats till sufficiently soured for churn- ing. This depends on the temperature, but never takes less than two days, and is ascertained by the milk thickening, gathering a head, or becoming slightly lappered. This head should remain unbroken till the milk is put into the churn. A lower temperature than formerly is now adopted for churning milk, and putting rennet to it in cheese-making. For butter it is 65°; and if the milk is under this, hot water is put into the churn to raise the temperature. Butter, if made from cream alone, requires a temperature of 55°. In winter, the milk is at once put into the churn to sour without cooling in vats. With the entire milk the churning processes are long; from three to three and a half hours, and the churn driven by steam, going at the rate of forty strokes a minute. For small families and dairies, the American churn is now frequently adopted, and is approved by men of science as well as milkmaids, both for certainty of good butter and easy working. Cream butter comes with half the churning necessary when the entire milk is used. The only original feature we notice in Mr Ballantine's communication, is that in salting no previous washing is employed. The butter is taken at once from the churn; the milk squeezed out by the dairy woman, and half the salt added. This is in what seems excessive quantity—half-a-pound to fourteen pounds of butter. When the butter remains in the first salt for twenty-four hours or more, the rest of the salt is added, well worked in, of course, and the butter potted as usual. Professor Traill allows a half pound of salt to. sixteen of butter. Even this is ample. By an excellent receipt given by a Dumbartonshire farmer in some of our former editions, the quantity of salt was ten ounces to the stone of twenty- four pounds, and each pound twenty-two ounces. In May, June, and July, the butter required an ounce more salt to the stone than in the autumn months. And this butter kept sweet for the whole year, being supplied with pickle if required, but seldom requiring it where the hit is sound, or stoneware jars are used. Salt is, no doubt, cheaper than butter; but it is as true that sweet-tasted is far before briny butter, whether for the kitchen or the table. Mr Ballantine's main excellence in curing consists in twice salting, which we have ever strenuously recommended. The temperature at which milk or cream is put to churn is of great importance. If too low, the butter will not be so good; and if too high, be in danger of becoming what is termed hursten-hutter. Summer milk or cream yields rather less butter than that of autumn, which should be preferred for storing. There must be considerable change in the processes of making and preserving Dutch butter, since we stated, on the authority of a com- munication made by Mr Vandergoes, President of the Board of Agri- culture, South Holland, to Sir John Sinclair, that Dutch butter was made wholly from cream, and no ingredient used in curing save salt