244 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. skins, pick out the seeds, and mix the pulp with a cut cap- sicum, a clove of garlic, and a very little vinegar, ginger, cayenne, white pepper, and salt; pulp this through a sieve, and simmer it for a few minutes. Beetroot-juice is used to improve the colour. Imitation Tomata-sauce is made by roasted apples, properly seasoned and coloured with turmeric. —Ohs» In Tomata-sauce French cooks stew an onion, a piece of ham, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and use top-fat, or a rich cullis, to moisten the ingredients. Good practice. See No. 206. 275. Apple-Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice four or five juicy baking-apples, and roast them; or simmer them in a sauce- pan, with a little water to keep them from burning, a bit of lemon-peel and sugar to taste. Take care they do not burn, and when quite soft, pour off the superfluous moisture, and beat them up with pounded sugar to taste, and a small bit of butter. Roasting is both best and easiest. Bread crumbs or panada may be added. If for goose or pig, much sugar is objectionable. For brown apple-sauce, stew the pared fruit, drain, and add brown gravy. No. 257 ; heat up and season highly with cayenne and pepper. This suits many tastes better than the common tame sweet apple-sauce. 276. Gooseherry-Sauce.—Clip away the tops and tails of a breakfastcupful of unripe small green gooseberries; scald them, drain them, and stir them into melted butter^ with a little sorrel-juice or vinegar. A little ginger may be added. The scalded gooseberries may also be served mashed with sugar and seasonings. 277. Caper-Sauce.—Take two table spoonfuls of capers and a very little of their vinegar. Mince the one half, and stir the whole into a half-pint of melted butter, or of strong thickened gravy. To prevent the butter from oiling, stir the sauce for some time. When wanted very poignant, lemon- juice may be added to this simple and tasteful sauce, or it may be flavoured with tarragon or Chili vinegar. If for fish, as skate, etc., a little essence of anchovy will be found an improvement, with pepper and salt to taste. 278. Mode Caper-Sauce is made of gherkins or nastur- tiums cut in bits, and lemon-juice stirred into melted butter. It is also made of radish seed-pods.