130 CHAP. VI.— BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. gently what flows freely tlirongh a tammy.— Ohs, This clear soup (for it must be very clear) is served under many different names; as, VermiceUi^ if with this paste separately boiled and put to it, when ready to serve ; Carrot-soup^ if with the red of boiled carrots cut in delicate straws; Tur- nip-soup, w^ith turnips scooped; Celery-soup, Asparagus- soup, Green Pease-soup, etc., by adding the ingredient which gives the name.—These additions are usually separately cooked. When all or the greater part ot these vegetables, stewed and carefully rubbed through a tammy sieve, are added to a strong gravy-soup, you have exactly the French Oecy-soup. A good French cook would, however, after chopping the roots, etc., first stew them in top-fat, or butter. The French generally have their turnip-soup white, their carrot-soup brown. Sippets are requisite to the Potage a la Crecy. With chopped lettuce and sorrel this (7recz/-soup makes Soupe d la Fauhonne. 64. French Brown Soup, or La Brunoise. To clear amber-coloured gravy-soup put carrots and tur- nips, cut in dice, straws, or like very small pears, with a root- cutter, and first fried and drained, if young, but if old par- boiled. Soak toasted sippets in a basin of broth, and slip them into the tureen after the soup is dished, lest they crumble down and destroy the brightness of the soup. This is proper whenever bread is used. Skim off any film of fat from the tureen, and serve.—Obs. Cut boiled leeks and celery in fillets like very fine straws of an inch and half in length, and cooked carrots, the red only, in thin straws, and turnips in thin slices, stamped with small pastry stamps, the whole boiled in the soup for a few minutes, and you have JuUenne-sovi^. The roots cannot be too delicately cut, and too many of them are considered vulgar. A teacupful will do for a large tureen. The carrot and celery may be cut round and round in ribbons. Spin AGE-SOUP—A very elegant and favourite mild soup d la Franqaise, is made by gently slipping a few balls of spin- age, the size of small eggs, into a tureen of clear golden brown soup : the sparkling emerald green of the spinage contrasting beautifully with the brilliant topaz hue of the soup. See from Nos. 607 to 618, French Soups,