365 MADE-DISHES OF VEAL. ten minutes ; and, when firm, divide and fry them. Serve with Ravigote-sauce^ No. 603. 631. Calfs Brains d la Maitre d'Hotel.—Boil the brains as above, with a little butter in the water ; don't fry them. Fry some bread cut like scallop-shells. Dish the brains divided, with the bread between, and cover with a Maitre d'Hotel sauce J No. 590. Another pretty dish of brains may be made by serving very green fried parsley in the middle of the dish, and the brains around, saucing with browned butter, sharpened with Chili vinegar. See No. 538. 632. Boudins of Cold Veal a la Reine.—Chop cold roast- veal, leaving out skin, gristles, etc. Season with white pepper, salt, lemon-grate, and a little lemon-juice. Heat the mince in veloute, or any white sauce, and, when cold, roll it up into boudins about the size of small sausages. Brush these with beat eggs, and strew with bread-crumbs till they are well crumbed. Fry of a fine brown, drain and serve them with fried parsley. 633. Calf's Ears.—The French dress these in various waysfarced with dressed forcemeat,—with a white Italian sauce, or d la Ravigote. Clean them, cook them in a blanc, No. 697, dip them in eggs and crumbs with seasonings, and fry them of a fine brown colour: Or dip in a light frying batter, and fry. Garnish with fried parsley. Fat sauces would be improper with such gristly tender meats as calf's feet or ears, or sheep's or lamb's trotters.—As a specimen of finical or false ornament in French cookery, we may mention calf's ears cut in tendrils or fringes, and a peeled plover's egg—a rich jewel!—deposited in each ear. 634. Ris de Veau aux Mousserons,—Veal-Sweetbreads^ with Mushrooms.— Choose sweetbreads large and white. Soak them and blanch in boiling water till they firm. Cut in nice pieces, and stew them in a little veloute, with mush- room-sauce,* ready prepared. Take them up. Boil down the sauce, and, when well reduced, thicken with beat yolks of eggs, and season with a little blanched parsley, nicely minced, and a squeeze of lemon. They are also served with young pease, or mushrooms; or are egged, crumbed, and fried.—See No. 639. * The French rub this sauce, celery, onion, etc., through a sieve; so that these sauces are all purees, i.e., smooth, and of pulpy consistence.