CHAP. V. FRYING. 114 ment. The frying-fat, be it lard, oil, butter, dripping^ or top-pot, must not be stale, much less rancid; the fire must not be smoky, and the frying-pan, but not the saute-pan (which our cooks corrupt into the sooty-pan), ought to be thicker in the bottom than frying-pans are usually made. Oil, fresh butter, clarified from all foreign substances, pure " British oil," is the most delicate substance in which meat can be fried, as it communicates no predominating flavour. Lard, or what answers equally well, clarified fresh suet, or dripping (the kitchen-fee" of the Cleikum), are better adapted than butter for fish, eggs, or any thing watery. When butter for frying is clarified, it is not nearly so apt to hum, which effect is produced by the water or milk it con- tains. Fritters and sweet things must have either good butter, or good lard, or, where it can be afforded, good oil. The fire must not be too fierce, nor yet too slack, as fat is susceptible of that intense degree of heat which will scorch whatever is placed in it before the substance to be fried could be heated through; and, on the other hand, if not hot enough, the fry will be merely sodden in fat, stewed and not fried. If fish, they would be apt to break, of a bad colour, and have no crispness. Fish are more difficult to fry than meat, from the softness of the fibre. They conse- quently require a greater degree of attention; they must be thoroughly dry. Have an oval-shaped frying-pan for fish, or, if for large soles, a fish-kettle, as this form requires less of the frying material than one of a round shape. A wire- frame fitted to the size of the pan, and raised about a quarter inch from its bottom, is coming into general use for fish : ascertain the heat of the fat, which must completely cover the fish, by noticing when it ceases to bubble up, or by throwing a bit of bread into it. Fat that has fried veal-cutlets, lamb-steaks, etc., may be used afterwards for fish, if allowed to settle, and poured clean from the sediment; but what is used for fish would spoil meat, though it will answer repeat- edly for fish, especially of the same sort, if strained. Frying- fat becomes richer from having meat fried in it; and if carefully taken up, may be used repeatedly. See Fritters, Omelets, etc., and No. 136. Read Nos. 57, 58. All fries served dry are dished on a napkin.