260 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. quality, and where there is no regular still-room, are per- haps cheapest and best when bought. It is, however, pro- per to prepare at home lemon and orange rind, and such like things, which might be lost when the juices are used. 330. Essence of Lemon and Seville Orange Peel.—Rub knobs of sugar on the lemon or orange till they are saturated with the yellow rind. Scrape off what is saturated, and repeat the process till all the rind is got off. Press the sugar down close, and cover it up.—Obs. Essence of Seville orange makes a fragrant and most grateful seasoning to custard, rice, or batter puddings. Essence of lemon or of orange peel is made by mixing one drachm of the essential oil of these fruits with a large glassful of rectified spirits, or spirit of wine, and is convenient when fresh lemons are not to be obtained, though not equal to the fresh fruit either in fragrance or flavour. The oil must be gradually mixed. Tincture of lemon-peel may be economically made when lemon-juice is wanted, by paring the peel off very nicely, and steeping it in brandy. The bottle must be very closely stopped, as the flavour of lemon is exceedingly volatile. Essence of Allspice may be made in the same way as essence of lemon, and so may Essences of Cloves and Mace. 331. Essence of Ginger.—Infuse three ounces of well- bruised fresh ginger, and an ounce of lemon-peel sliced thin, in a pint and a half of strong rectified spirits. Let it be closely stopped, and shaken every day. This preparation is cordial and grateful. 332. Tinctures of Cloves, Nutmeg, Allspice, Cinnamon, etc., may be all prepared by infusing a sufficient quantity of the aromatics in strong spirits. They may be converted into plain useful liqueurs by the addition of fine sugar; but they must then be carefully filtered. 333. Cayenne Pepper, to make.—This is made either of ripe chilies or capsicums. If chilies, dry them before the fire a whole day, turning them till quite dry. Trim away the stalks. Pound the pods in a mortar till they become a fine powder, mixing tn about a sixth of their weight of salt. Bottle the dry powder, and stop the vials carefully. If capsicums are used, dry them in the oven, first mixing them with dried flour; beat them to a powder, and add water, yeast, and a little salt, with which form the capsi-