248 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. quarter-pint, or rather more, of savoury brown gravy, or melted butter, very hot; thicken it with a little browned flour, and put to it a large glass of claret or port wine, a large teaspoonful of made-mustard, and salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Simmer it a few minutes, and serve it very hot.—Ohs. For the wine, or part of it, may occasionally be substituted mushroom or walnut pickle, and a little chopped green sage may be added. Hard yolks of eggs rubbed smooth in the sauce, make a good variety of the above. 293. Sauce Robert^ for PorTc^ Mutton-Cutlets^ Geesej etc.— Brown four or five onions very finely shred, in a small sauce- pan, with a good piece of butter. When of a fine rich brown, mix in a tablespoonful of browned flour, one of mushroom- catsup, and two of red wine, with a half-pint of stock, a saltspoonful of pepper, and one of salt, and a teaspoonful of made-mustard, the juice of a lemon, or a dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar.—Obs. This sauce is named after the French inventor, as we say, Maintenon cutlets, or Sandwiches, It is a favourite sauce. Tarragon vinegar will give it the flavour of the French kitchen, which to some gourmands may be a recommendation even as an accompaniment to plain English fare. This sauce is eaten with rump steaks, whether stewed or broiled. Pour it hot over them, and garnish with scraped horseradish or fried parsley. 294. An Excellent White Sauce, For Fricasseed Rabbits^ Fowls, Veal, Whitings, etc. To a half-pint of the liquor in which fowls, veal, or trim- mings of these have been boiled, put a bit of lemon-peel, an onion sliced, six white peppercorns, a pounded blade of mace and a scrape of nutmeg, with a small bunch of lemon- thyme, basil, and parsley. When the sauce is well-flavoured, strain it, add a little rich cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour or arrowroot to thicken, and, last of all, a squeeze of lemon, taking care to stir the sauce lest the cream curdle. Pour it over the fricassee. 295. Lemon and Liver Sauce for Fowls.—Parboil the liver of the fowl, having first washed and scored it; mince it very fine. Pare a lemon very thin, as if for punch; take off the white part, and cut the lemon into small dice, picking out the seeds. Mince about a fourth part of the peel very fine,