298 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES 438. Scotch Collops.^—Cut small slices of equal thickness out of the fillet; flatten, flour, and brown them over a brisk fire in fresh butter. When enough are browned, put a little weak veal-broth or boiling water to them in a small, close stewpan, adding, when they are nearly ready, the juice of a lemon, a spoonful of catsup, or the same of lemon-pickle, with mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Thicken with roux^ and strain the sauce, and pour it hot over the collops. They may be egged and dipped in crumbs. Some cooks lay the slices in a marinade of vinegar and spices for some hours before frying, but it is bad practice. Serve with this favour- ite small dish curled slices of toasted bacon, or mushrooms, if in season. 439. A Fricandeau of Veal.—Trim the fat fleshy side of a knuckle of white veal, or, if expense is no object, take a long thick piece from the fillet; skin it, by cutting it smooth at one stroke; beat it flat; season, and lard it, or stuff with veal-stufling in which is put a large proportion of rasped ham. Lay some slices of bacon in a stewpan, and place the veal on them with more slices of bacon above it. Put in a pint or more of stock, the knuckle-bone broken, or a calf s foot chopped, a fagot of herbs, a turnip, a carrot, and foiir onions sliced, mace, two bay-leaves, some white pepper, and more slices of fat bacon over all. Let this stew for more than two hours over a very slow fire, and keep the stewpan closely covered, unless while basting the upper side of the fricandeau with the gravy. The gravy will be very rich. Take up the fricandeau and keep it hot; skim the fat from the gravy; pour it from the sediment, and boil it quickly down till it thickens or becomes a glaze, with which glaze the meat. Serve with sorrel or tomata-sauce. —Ohs, A fricandeau is sometimes larded diagonally; but this presupposes a cook who needs no instructions. The lean part of a large neck may be frugally dressed as a fri- candeau, drawing a glaze from the bones. Truflles and morells, artichoke-bottoms, and mushrooms, are all served with this dish. Fricandeau is a French dish naturalized, though it does not always succeed ifi this country. The French often serve it over dressed spinage, sorrel, or endive : * This properly means scotched^ or scored collops, though the word has come to be understood as above.