353 SAUCES. with two spoonfuls of chopped parsley, salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the juice of two small lemons. 591. Sauce Hackee.—-Take of chopped mushrooms and gherkins a spoonful each, half a spoonful of scalded minced parsley, with pepper, salt, and vinegar. Moisten with a little consomme^ or with brown Italian-sauce. 592. French Sauce a la Tartare,—Mix a minced eschalot and a few leaves of chervil and tarragon finely minced, with a teaspoonful of made-mustard, a glass of vinegar, and a sprinkling of oil. Stir this constantly, and, if necessary, thin it with more vinegar. 592. Sauce Tournee.—Moisten some white roux with con- somme of poultry or blonde de veau, till it is thin. Stew in it a few chopped mushrooms, parsley, and onions. Skim and strain the sauce.—For Eoux, see No. 253. 594. Sauce d la Pluche.—Blanch and drain some curl- leafed young parsley and a little tarragon. Put to this a pint of veloute and a half-pint of clear consomme. Stir in a bit of butter; work it well to make it smooth. Ols. This is a proper French sauce for lamb's head. 595. Sauce d VAllemande^ or German Sauce.—Thicken Sauce Tournee with the beat yolk of an egg or two, accord- ing to the quantity. This sauce is extensively used for dressed-meat dishes. 595^. To make a liaison d la Franqaise^ for sauces and vegetable dishes.—Beat up three yolks of eggs with a quarter- pint of cream : strain through a tammy, and use to thicken and whiten. 596. Sauce d la Matelote for Fish.—Take a large pint of brown roux heated, or of Espagnole ; put to this six onions sliced and fried, with a few mushrooms (or a little mush- room catsup), a glass of red wine, and a little of the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Give it a seasoning of parsley, chives, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, allspice, and a clove. SJcink it up (using a large spoon), to make it blend well. Put veal- gravy to it, if wanted more rich, or a good piece of butter. Strain it, and, if wanted exceedingly rich, add small quenelles (forcemeat-balls) made of ingredients proper for a fish-dish, glazed onions and mushrooms, a little essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon. Serve over stewed carp or trout.—