109 BEEF-STEAKS. on trial found nearly the whole useless, or little improve- ment on the old-fashioned utensils. 38. To broil Beef-Steaks.—P. T., Esq, In England, the best steaks are cut from the middle of the rump. In Ireland, Scotland, and France, steaks which are thought more delicate are oftener cut, like chops, from the sirloin or spare-rib, or edge-bone, trimming off the super- fluous fat, and chopping away the bone. Beef for steaks must be kilkd for from three to five days, or more, to eat tender; but it does not require to be kept so long as a large piece to be roasted. Cut the steaks of equal thickness (about three quarters of an inch), beat them to a level— though much beating is not recommended, as it expresses the juices from the meat. Let them be from three to four inches in breadth, and from four to six in length. Rib steaks shape themselves. Trim off the bone. When the gridiron is hot, rub the bars with suet, sprinkle a little salt over the fire, and pepper and lay on the steaks. Turn them frequently with steak-tongs, to do them equally and keep in the juices. When the fat blazes and smokes very much, remove the gridiron till the blaze is past. From ten to twelve minutes will do a steak. Have a hot dish (rubbed with eschalot if you like) placed by the side or over the fire, near the edge of the gridiron. When turning the steaks with the tongs, if there be on the top any gravy that would be lost in turning, drop it quickly into this dish to preserve it. Steaks are generally preferred rather under- done. Sprinkle them with a little salt just before they are dished in the hot dish, in which a little eschalot, finely shred, may be put, with a bit of fresh butter, and, if liked, a spoon- ful of catsup heated in the dish. Turn the steaks over with the tongs once or twice in the dish, squeezing them to express the gravy. Some cooks squeeze the steaks when half-done between plates. Garnish with pickled red cabbage or cucumber, or horseradish scraped as for roast beef— Oyster-sauee^ Eschalot-sauce^ Brown onion-sauce, Eschalot- vnne, Carach-sauce, GeneraVs sauce, or Miser^s sauce.— Those who relish a well-dressed beef-steak* discard all * "Ask a dozen healthy men under thirty," said Touchwood, "what was the very best dinner they ever made in their lives, and I bet from eight to ten of them answer, 'a beef-steak,' and they give you the history