140 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. Witliliolding the onions and celery, and substituting aspara- gus-points, makes pease-soup an excellent plain asparagus- soup. By tlie addition of Curry-powder, Dr Hunter, the author of Culina^ made Curry Pease-soup. Dr Redgill added square bits of fried bacon, cayenne, fried onions or cucumber, and concocted a soup of the Composite Order, which, in compliment to the inventor, was named by the Club, E-edgill's Pease-soup^ Haul Gout 79. Pease-Pudding. Marrowy melters^ whether whole or split, are far the best pease for the cook. Soak a pint the necessary length of time: boil them in the softest water tied loosely in a cloth till they will pulp through a colander. Add salt, pepper, two beat eggs, and a good piece of butter; tie up firmly in a floured cloth, and boil (with pork if boiling) for another half hour; hang the cloth before the fire till the pudding gets firm, then turn it out. 80. Potato-Soup. This cheap and favourite homely soup may be made of the same materials as Pease-soup^ or of any liquor in which meat has been boiled, or of roast-beef bones, etc.; a hock of ham, or shank of mutton-ham, or any thing of this kind, may be advantageously used to flavour and enrich it. Season with grated carrot, onions, celery, or parsley, and either thicken with mashed potatoes, or suffer the potatoes, pre- viously pared and parboiled, to fall to a mash in the soup. N.B.—Where small country families kill a sheep now and then for winter-store, what is salted, though it would not make even tolerable broth, will make a very palatable pease or potato soup, with any of the above seasonings. 81. To Grill Crusts for Soups and Cheese. Put the cut crusts upon a small wire gridiron over hot cinders to crisp. When done, wet the inside with top-fat, and sprinkle a little salt over them, and slip them into the tureen; or crisp them over a furnace, wetting with good stock. Crusts for Toasted Cheese.—Pull rough pieces from a quite new loaf, and brown them in the oven or before the fire. N.B.—If you put untoasted bread into boiling soup, it will swell, crumble, and spoil the appearance of the soup.