405 PUDDINGS, ETC. the fowl. Two young boiled or stewed fowls, with a small salted tongue between them, make a good family-dinner dish.—Ols, Chickens and young fowls are dressed, in Ger- many, exactly like the Scottish howtowdie; from which we discard all oysters and farce-balls, using simply the drappit' egg and spinage; or, at most, a few very thin slices of broiled bacon, with fried eggs. In Germany, chickens are also steeped in lemon-juice, spices, and parsley, and cut up, fried, and served with fried eggs. 738. Scottish White Puddings.—Mince good beef-suet, but not too finely, and mix it with about a third of its weight of highly-toasted oatmeal. Season highly with pepper and salt. Have the skins thoroughly cleaned and cut of equal lengths. Fill them with the ingredients, and sew or fasten the ends with a wooden pin or by sewing. Boil the puddings for an hour, pricking them as they swell in the pot with a needle to let out the air. They will keep for months if laid in bran or oatmeal. When to be used, warm them through in hot water; then brown on the gridiron or the American oven, and serve very hot.—See No. 696. 739. Liver Puddings are made as above, using parboiled liver grated in the proportion of one-fourth; the rest suet and meal, with the above seasonings, and onions shred. 740. To Boast a Pig^ Scottish way.—The directions of a thorough-bred Scottish cook, sanctioned by experience, authorize us to recommend that a pig intended for roasting should be slightly rubbed with melted butter whenever it has warmed at the fire: then quickly dredge every part with fine flour; keep the spit turning continually, but slowly, allowing twenty minutes for each pound-weight in the roast; and frequently dredging it, that the skin may have a com- plete superficies of flour, uniform as on the locks of an anti- quated beau of the last century, shrouding the encroach- ments of Time beneath the powder of Fashion. When the pig has performed the specified revolutions before a clear fire, let the flour be blown off with a small handy pair of bellows; and with a large piece of butter, within a single press of clean linen, rub the skin all over, turning the roast with great deliberation. Persevere in this unction a quarter of an hour, and the pig-crackling will be exquisitely crisp. {From a Cor- respondent.)—See also No. 20, and French Mode, No. 656.