471 CREAMS. 888. Ginger-Cream^ an elegant Cream.—Four ounces of preserved ginger sliced fine; three spoonfuls of the syrup ; five beat yolks of eggs, and a pint and a quarter of sweetened cream. Cook like custard,, and whisk till cold. If sugar is wanted, add the finest, then melted isinglass ; freeze the cream. It may be flavoured with a strong tincture of ginger, which is less expensive and very good, and be served in cups without isinglass. 889. Vanilla-Cream.—Vanilla in this country is some- times of bad quality. From being comparatively little used it lies long in the warehouses, and becomes musty. For a Cream, boil a pod and a half of vanilla in three pints of good milk. Let this reduce in a slow heat one-sixth, add- ing to it ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, to which gradually add the vanilla- fiavoured milk. Set the mixture over a slow heat, stirring constantly, till, perfectly smooth, it adheres to the back of the spoon. Rub it through a fine sieve^ and when cool add an ounce and a half of melted isinglass. Rub a columnar mould—now the fashionable shape—with almond-oil or fresh butter. Fill, and set it in ice, and when wanted, turn out in the manner directed for turning out.—Nos. 885, 918. Orange-flower-water added to the mixture when thickening makes this a fine cream; and an infusion of fresh orange- flowers, when these can be got,, is still more delicate. 890. Whipt Coffee-Cream.—Infuse two ounces of coffee, so as to have a breakfastcupful of a strong tincture. AYhip a quart of sweetened cream, and lay aside the froth as it rises on a sieve reversed, to drain. Add the white of an egg if the whip does not rise well. Boil the remaining cream, and put it to the beat yolks of three or four eggs, and the clear coffee-tincture. Serve it in a glass-dish and the whip over it. N.B.—Whips will be much more easily made if the cream, where convenient, is whisked over ice, or in a very cool place. 891. Coffee-Cream.—Have a pint of clear jelly of calves' feet free of blacks and fat. Clear a large cupful of strong coffee with isinglass till bright but deeply brown. Mix it with the jelly; add a pint of good cream and fine sugar to tasteand,, after mixing well, boil up for a few minutes till