459 POTATO-PUDDING. a finely-slired onion, if approved. Dish and score this, and set it below the roast to catch the rich dripping, and to brown. See Nos. 19, 866, and British Tapioca, No. 840. 872. Potato-Pudding, with Meat.—Mash the potatoes; thin them with milk, and season as above. Cut either fat beef, mutton, or pork, into very small bits, and season these well with salt, pepper, allspice, and shred onion. Place a layer of meat at the bottom of a baking-dish, then potatoes, and proceed thus till the dish is filled. Pour all the potato- batter that remains equally over the top, and stick some butter over that. Bake of a fine brown, covering with paper to prevent scorching. See No. 764.— Ohs. This dish is in no material respect different from baked Irish stew. The meat may be kept in steaks ; and the pudding is then called a Rump-steah potato-pudding. Chicken or veal, with curry sea- sonings, may be dressed as above, using a batter of boiled rice. A Mutton-chop-pudding is also made with potatoes as above. 873. Kidney-pudding, or Dumpling,—Slice, soak, and sea- son one or two ox-kidneys. Line a basin with a good paste made of suet, flour, and hot milk. Put in the kidneys with a little shred onion and suet, cover and pinch in the paste; tie in a cloth, and boil for two hours.—For Blood-Puddings and White-puddings, see National Dishes ; and French Cookery for several excellent meat-puddings or Boudins. 8732. Pease-Pudding.—See No. 79. Sauces for Puddings^ pp. 252, 255, and Nos. 834^, 868. Fashionable Iced Puddings. 874. Pine-apple Iced Pudding, a la Royale.—Now that pine-apples are got so cheaply from the West Indies, the Pouding d^Ananas may be tried. Peel two ripe middle- sized pine-apples, trimming off corners, and going rather deep. Slice the flesh in slices a quarter-inch thick, which cut into large dice. Boil these in six ounces of syrup for ten minutes ; cut the peel also in dice, and boil it in a pint of boiling cream. Let this soak a few minutes, and add six ounces of pounded sugar and twelve yolks of beat eggs; thicken over a slow fire, and strain through a tammy. When this is cold, add to it the syrup of the pines, and freeze the mixture; when frozen, add the pieces of fruit some preserved cherries, two ounces of pistachios, cut in