CUSTARDS. 479 with six ounces of sifted sugar, a glass of vfhite wine, the juice and fine grate of a lemon, and a few bits of cinnamon. Take off the froth as it rises, with a sugar-skimmer or silver fish-trowel, and place it to drain on a sieve reversed over a bowl. Whisk till you have enough of the whip, allowing for what it will sink. Next day place in a trifle-dish six fresh-baked sponge-biscuits sliced, or rice trifle-cake, or remnants of any good light cake cut down; a dozen ratafia drop-biscuits, and some sweet almonds blanched and split. Pour over them enough of white wine, or ginger-wine, to moisten them completely; next strew a seasoning of grated lemon-peel, and add a thin layer of raspberry or strawberry jam. Have ready a ricb and rather tbick custard, and pour it over this to the thickness of two inches. Heap the whip above this lightly and gracefully, and garnish with a few light sprigs of flowers of fine colour, or a few bits of very clear currant-jelly laid into the snow-white whip, or a sprink- ling of Harlequin-comfits. This last is considered antique, but it is still in use.—Nos. 923, 925. 920^. Tipsy-Cake.—Crumble a fresh-baked pound sponge- cake into a trifle-dish. Pour over it as much wine, with one- fourth brandy, as it will imbibe, and heap on it whipt cream seasoned as for trifle.—See Nos. 937 and 1016. 921. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle.—Scald, pulp through a sieve, sweeten, and season the fruit, if apples, with cinnamon or lemon grate ; mix it over the fire with a thin custard; put it into the trifle-dish, and, when cold, cover it with a whip made the day before, as no whip will be solid unless it has stood a good while. There need be no custard put to the fruit-pulp. When made of apples this is called Pomme Mange. Custards. 922. Custard for a centre dish.—Scottish.—Make a strong whip of sweetened cream, and have a little of the same cream tinged with liquid cochineal before it is whipt. Heap the white whip over a rich custard, No. 925, and drop the pink- coloured froth fancifully over that. Garnish with bright green and scarlet preserved fruits,—angelica and preserved cherries or barberries answer well to contrast the colours. Currant-jelly will give colour. 923. Almond-Custards.—Blanch and pound nearly a half-