503 OBSERVATION ON CAKES. Observations on Cakes. Before beginning to make any sort of cake, have sugar beat and sifted; flour of good quality dry and sifted; the fruit stoned or picked, washed, and dry, and rubbed in a towel; the lemon-peel sliced, or beat to paste in a mortar, with a little cream; the fresh butter, when this is used for light cakes, beaten to a cream; but, above all, have the eggs, yolks and whites separately, well whisked. A large tin basin answers best for this purpose, as the yolks or butter can be heated in this occasionally over the fire, or in hot water, while the w^hisking is going on, which assists the process. It is a good test of beat eggs, when they are so thick as to carry the drop that falls from the whisk. If eggs are not properly managed at first, it is difficult to raise them to a cream afterwards. It ought to be remembered that eggs, besides enriching sweet cakes, are intended to supply the place of yeast. When the several ingredients, which a high temperatute improves when for cakes, are well mixed, they ought immediately to be put into the oven, that the fruit may not sink: if, however, yeast is used, the cake must stand for some time to rise. Yeast for cakes should be sweet, white, and thick. It may be improved by bleaching it repeatedly in water, allowing it to settle, and then pouring the water offi It saves hard labour to heat, but not melt, butter before beating it to a cream. The thing next to be attended to is the state of the oven. It must not only be thoroughly heated previously, but have a rather quick heat when most cakes are put in. Folds oi paper ought to be put over them, lest the top get scorched. Plunging a knife into the heart of a cake, and drawing it quickly out, is the best mode of judging whether it be ready. If not enough, the blade of the knife will be glary, and the cake must be instantly returned to the oven. The heat ought to be kept up equally throughout, by adding fresh fuel occasionally till the cake is drawn; but, above all, attention must be given till it is properly raised. The same observations apply to pastry, and to the setting of puddings. Cakes ought to be kept in a dry place, wrapped up and set in a close jar to keep them from hardening. If made without yeast, they will keep a very long time. They may be heated on the hob or in a slack oven to refresh