ON BAKING MEAT. 105 an excellent method of dressing hare, see Civet and Lievre en daube, French Coohery. By a fiction of cookery, the lean inside of a large sirloin is cut up, stuffed as a hare, skewered, tied with tape, and roasted. It requires to be highly seasoned, and in truth eats better than most roasted hares. In rural situations, a liare is often stuffed with mashed potato, grated ham, suet, and onion, and highly seasoned with pepper and allspice ; nor, though a homely, is this a bad fashion. 36. A young Fawn is treated precisely as a hare, but must not be kept above one day. When somewhat grown, it may be roasted in quarters, or in a haunch or a saddle. Cover with veal or lamb caul in roasting, or slices of fat bacon, and baste well. Froth in the usual manner, and serve with venison-sauce^ and a good gravy in the dish. A Kid is roasted as a hare.—Obs, These are all, at least hare and kid, dry meats, and are better dressed, the former as soup or collops, the latter as coUops, or stew, or both, in the French fashion. A Rabbit, when large, may be stuffed and roasted as a hare; a leveret is not stuffed. A hare's ears are reckoned a dainty by some affected epicures;—they must be singed and cleaned. We hold them in equal respect with duck's feet, but are very tolerant of those who admire them. Baste and dredge as in roasting poultry, and make a sauce of the chopped liver and parsley, or lemon-juice stirred into melted butter. 37. On Baking Meat. The baker*s, or the family oven^ may often be substituted for the spit, with greater economy and convenience ; and for some particular joints and kinds of viands it is even more suitable. A baking dish ought to be in form of a trough, and at least six inches deep, that the meat, covered if pos- sible, may in fact stew in its own juices, as it gets little or no basting. But a pig must be baked in a shallow tin dish for sake of the crackling. The dripping-pan of a Bachelor's or Dutch oven will answer very well. Prepare things to be baked as for roasting, but season more highly. A fillet or breast of veal^ if not very high fed, will bake as well as it will roast. The oven is equally suitable to a leg of pork, but a loin requires to be sweated in roasting—it is too greasy when baked. A pig., if not very old, and if the baker is