ROASTING. 81 good cook can manage to handle meat very little in the spit- ting and balancing. In many joints, the spit will run along the side of the bone without piercing the flesh. Tie it, or fix with screw skewers. If much handled, baste the joint with salt and water, and dry the dripping-pan, suffering the meat to drip and dry (which it will do in a few seconds by the heat of the fire) before basting. If the joint is not accu- rately balanced, no horizontal spit will work well.* In roasting, the management of the fire is half the battle. Let the kitchen-grate be thoroughly raked out in the morn- ing. An hour before the roast is put down, make up a fire suited to the size of the joint; let it be clear and glowing, and free of ashes and smoke in front. A backing of wetted cinders or small coal helps to throw forward and sustain an equal radiant heat in front. Place the meat at a due dis- tance, that it may heat through without the outside becom- ing shrivelled and scorched. To prevent this, baste dili- gently for the first half-hour. The larger the joint the greater at first must be the distance from the fire, so that it be not so great as to make the meat tough and sodden by the slackness of the process. A radiant fire, due distance, and frequent basting, can alone ensure a well roasted joint, of that fine amber-colour, crisp, and lightly frothed, which speaks a language that all men understand. Remember that slow but equal roasting is as important as slow but constant boiling or simmering. A quarter of an hour to the pound of meat is the time usually allowed for roasting, bearing in mind that fat meat takes longer than lean, and pork and veal longer than other kinds of meat. But, as we have said of boiling, this must in almost every case be determined by circumstances. Fillets and legs take rather longer than loins or breasts. A meat-screen, the state of the weather, the kind of fuel, and a thousand things, must be taken into account. A meat-screen, with shelves, contributes so much * A smoke or a wind-up jack, or a cradle-spit, was considered the best by the Nabob; but Yorkshire jacks, bottle-jacks, Dutch ovens, and Gipsy jacks, i. e. a nail and a string, and many other contrivances, may all be employed with success, if the fire he adapted to the peculiar construction of the implement. Experience shows that the bottle-jack, with or without a tin screen as may be found suitable, is the one best adapted to private families in middle life. A substitute for a spit-screen is easily contrived, from an old large tea-tray, or a clothes-horse. Smaller light tin screens with one or two shelves are now generally substituted for the huge block- tin and timber framework of the jack.