334 CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 550. Devils and Diablotins. Though what go by the ugly name, devils, are often served at supper or luncheon, they are most commonly considered as provocatives and stimulants,—a relish with wine, or a spur to a jaded appetite. Their preparation must accordingly vary with the momentary tastes or neces- sities of the consumers. The only indispensable attribute of the common familiar cock-crow devil for the rere-suppevj is scorching heat, and tear-compelling pungency. Devils are made of the legs, rumps, backs, and gizzards of cold turkey, goose, duck, capon; and of all kinds of game, particularly the backs of moor-game, which have a peculiarly stimulating bitter; and also of venison, veal, and mutton kidney, fish bones (p. 165), and of biscuits or rusks. The meat to be dressed in this way must be scored, that the seasonings may find suitable places of retreat. The seasgnings, which con- sist of salt, pepper, cayenne, and curry, mushroom, anchovy, or truffle powder, must be administered at the discretion of the consumer. It is a good mode to have the things sea- soned at table, and then sent to the kitchen-fire. The devils must be broiled on a strong clear fire, and served in a hot- water dish, or one with a spirit-lamp. When not served dry as a relish with wine, the proper sauces for devils are grill- sauce, anchovy-sauce, or any very piquant sauce. Dry toasts or rusks are a proper accompaniment to devil'd poul- try, etc.* * The following receipt for the preparation of devils is the best that has yet been disclosed; for in this philosophic and amateur department of cookery profound mystery has hitherto been observed: " Mix equal parts of common salt, pounded cayenne, and curry-powder, with double the quan- tity of mushroom or truffle powder. Dissect a brace of woodcocks (if under-roasted so much the better), split the heads, divide and subdivide the legs, wings, back, etc., and powder all the pieces with the seasonings well mixed. Bruise the trail and brains with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a very little pounded mace, the grate of half a lemon, and half a spoonful of soy. Rub these together till they become smooth, and add a table- spoonful of catsup, a glass of Madeira, and the juice of two Seville oranges. Throw this sauce, along with the birds, into a silver stew-dish to be heated by a lamp. Cover it close, and keep gently simmering, occasionally stir- ring, until the flesh has imbibed the greater quantity of the liquid. When you have reason to suppose it is completely saturated, throw in a small quantity of salad-oil, and stirring it all once more well together, serve it round instantly." The only remaining direction the writer of this admir- able receipt gives, is, that as in picking the bones your fingers must neces- sarily be impregnated with the flavour of the devil, you must be careful, in licking them, not to swallow them entirely. These devils are nearly the French Tables Salmis.