319 OF HARE. gravy of the neck, head, liver, heart, and trimmings, with onions, a slice of bacon chopped into small bits, a large carrot split, fine herbs, and two dozen corns of black pepper and allspice. Strain this into a clean stewpan, and put the hare, with the vinegar in which it has been soaked, to it, and stew gently till done. Add salt, spices, and a little cayenne. Catsup may be added, and the stew may be thickened with butter rolled in brown flour.—Ohs. This is an excellent method of dressing a hare, which makes often but a dry and ungainly roast. A few par-roasted button- onions may be peeled, stewed in the sauce, and served with the hare. An old hare requires to be either larded, stewed in very rich broth, or, which is still better, braised. Garlic, if liked at all, should always be used with hare. Hare is also stewed in wine, ale, or cider, enriching the liquor with rasped bacon and high seasonings; and also with the cooked blood, stirred in when the dish is taken off the fire; the liver and lights may be dressed as forcemeat-balls to serve with it. Currant-jelly, honey, or sugar may be used, but with discretion, in this dish.—See Lievre en daube^ No. 662. 507. To Jug Hare.—Cut it into small pieces; season these, and put them into a jugging-can which will just hold them, with a slice or two of good bacon or beef hashed, a fagot of herbs, a few onions, with a half-dozen cloves stuck in them, a couple of bay-leaves, the rind of a lemon^ and a little water. Cover the jugging-can closely, so that no steam may escape. Set it in a steamer, a kettle of boil- ing water, or a slow oven, for at least three hours. When done, skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy \ thicken it; add seasonings, if necessary; and, dishing the pieces of hare neatly in a deep dish, pour the hot sauce over them; or, if they have become cold, heat them up in it.—Ohs. Red wine, instead of water, the juice of a lemon, and a clove of garlic, may be added to the jugged hare, which will then make a highly-flavoured ragout. Serve venison-sauce ; but the natural sauce is the best that can accompany this dish. 508. To Broil a Roasted Hare for Supper or Luncheon.— Cut off the legs and shoulders, and flatten and season them highly; broil them on a quick, clear fire; froth with cold butter, and serve them hot with venison-sauce. 509. To Hash Hare.—Gut down the cold hare into thin