CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 386 Modes of French Cookery, Turkey en Galantine. 697. Many of these modes we have seen; and as many more remain. The galantine is important; and as an ex- ample we take the galantine de dinde. Bone a turkey; truss the legs inside; spread over it a layer of prepared forcemeat, and on that strips of cooked lean ham, fat bacon, and lean veal. These^ must he laid in alternately, and thus contrasted. Season with pepper and salt; then cover with another layer of forcemeat, and thus fill the turkey, keeping it of a good shape. Sew it up, to keep shape, and put it in a cloth to stew in veal or turkey stock. Stew for three hours. Probe it; and if ready, undo the bandages; place it in a dish where it can be pressed with a weight till cold, but kept in shape. Have aspic jelly, No. 606, ready, with which, in croutons and roughed hits^ like crystals, decorate the galantine^ forming in aspic a star, a flower-de-luce, or any fanciful and light design upon the top of it. Galantines are, by French cooks, decorated in as many ways as are ladies' caps by Parisian milliners ;—with eggs, truffles, beet- root, etc.; but, above all, aspic jelly, which may be much varied in form and colour. All kinds of game and poultry are thus dressed, and also eels and other fish, by stuffing and decorating. None are more stylish than galantines of pheasants or grouse. Blancs and Poeles, to prepare for cooking French Dishes,— A hlanc is a rich broth or gravy, in which the French cook palates, lamb's head, and many other things. It is made thus: A pound of beef-kidney fat, minced, put on with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, parsley, green onions, slices of lemon without the peel or seeds; or, if much is wanted, two pounds of fat, and two lemons. When the fat is a good deal melted, put in water made briny with salt; and when done, the Blanc is ready for use. To PoelCj and to prepare the Poele.—A pound of the white of fresh fat bacon, a pound of suet or veal-kidney fat, both hashed, and a pound of fresh butter. Fry, together with two pounds of veal, cut in small bits, for ten minutes, and add a quart and a half of water, two dessertspoonfuls of salt, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bay-leaf, a few sprigs