548 EXPLANATION OP UNUSUAL B'erhs, Savoury, or Fine, are parsley, mushrooms, chives, rocambole, tarragon, etc. Herbs, Sweet, are lemon-thyme, mint, basil, bay-leaf, etc. ITors d^ceuvres, p. 377. Hotch-potch, any thin stew, or stew soup, of meat cut in pieces, and dressed with fresh vegetables; also the name of a celebrated Scot- tish National dish. Kitchen-Fee, dripping, probably called kitchen-/e6 in Scotland, from being formerly the perquisite of the cook. Lardk, to, to enrich meats, poultry, etc., by introducing strips of lard into them with a needle made for that purpose ; also said of intro- ducing parsley, etc., in the same manner. Lardons, strips of lard. Liaison, a thickening, generally of beat eggs, sometimes of cream and eggs, intended to tie or connect the component parts of a dish. Soups and sauces with a liaison should be kept hot, in a pot of water, or hain marie, lest the fire curdle them. Maigre:—Preparations of all kinds, if made without butcher's meat, poultry, or game, and cooked merely with butter, where lard or dripping might at other times be proper, are called maigre, in opposition to gras. Maigre Dishes, dishes used by Roman-catholics on the days when their Church forbids flesh-meats; comprehending all fish and vege- table pies and soups, puddings, fruit-pies, egg-dishes, omelets, fritters, macaroni, all preparations of fish, cheese-dishes fish- sausages, and all creams, jellies, and confectionary, also dressed vegetables, pickles, and preserved cakes and biscuits. Marinades, compound liquors of various kinds, generally made of wine or vinegar, with herbs and spices, in which fish or meats are soaked before they are dressed, to improve their flavour or quality, and in which they are sometimes boiled. Marinade, to, to steep in a marinade, as No. 22, and Obs. No. 112. Panada, a batter for mixing with forcemeats, anciently employed for basting, p. 92, note. Pass, to, French passer, to give things a half or third part cooking hastily, in the stewpan, fryingpan, or saute-pan. Poele, to, to cook meat in a particular kind of rich stock, p. 386. Probe, to, to pierce to the heart or inside of butter, cheese, hams, etc., with a probe, to try their qualities by sight or smell;—also, to try if potatoes, turnips, gourds, etc., are enough boiled. Puree, a, a pulpy mash of onions, celery, turnips, mushrooms, pease, or chestnuts, thinner than a mash, but thicker than a sauce, over which, in French Cookery, meats are often served. Beduce, to, to boil a sauce or soup rapidly down to a jelly, or till it become rich and thick, or a glaze. Pefresh, to, to steep or soak meats, but particularly vegetables, i^ plenty of pure water, changing it, or letting it flow off; as spinage, when boiled, is often held in a colander, under the water-cock, to refresh it before being finished. Roux, thickening, white and brown, p. 234. Salads, cold dressed dishes of many things, but in modem England still generally said of vegetable messes only, pp. 224-228.