196 CHAP. VII. FISH. 176. A Salmagundi. Wash and cut open at the breast two large Dutch or Lochfine pickled herrings; take the meat from the bones, without breaking the skin, and keep on the heads, tails, fins, etc. Mince the fish with the breast of a cold roast chicken skinned, a couple of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, an onion, a boned anchovy, and a little grated ham or tongue. Season with salad-oil, vinegar, cayenne, and salt, and fill up the herring-skins, so that they may look plump and well shaped. Garnish with scraped horseradish, and serve mustard with the dish.—Ohs, An ornamental Salmagundi yfdi^ one of the frippery Scotch dishes of former times. This edifice was raised on a china bowl reversed, and placed in the middle of a dish, crowned with what, by the courtesy of the kitchen, was called a pine-apple, made of fresh butter. Around were laid, stratum above stratum, chopped eggs, minced herring and veal, rasped meat, and minced parsley ; the whole sur- mounted by a triumphal arch of herring-bones, and adorned with a garnishing of barberries and samphire. 177. To Stew Oysters,* Cockles, or Mussels. Plump, juicy, middle-sized oysters alone will stew to advantage. When opened, put them in a saucepan to * Oysters are conceitedly said to be in season in every month of the year that has an r in its name, beginning with September and ending with April; but the season in many places extends from August to May. Every city has its favourite oyster-bank. In London the Colchester and Milton oysters are held in most esteem. Edinburgh has her " whiskered Pandores," and Dublin the Carlingford, and " Powldoodies of Burran." Venice is celebrated for oysters. Ancient Rome had those of Tarentum. For the convenience of obtaining a ready supply of oysters, they are often trans- ported from their original beds, and laid down on other places of the coast; but these exiles are seldom found in such perfection as those which are called natives; that is, such as have never been rudely torn from their native beds and despatched on voyages of profit. Oysters, when just dredged, may be so packed in small barrels as to keep good for a week or ten days, and in this state they are sent to distant places. Oysters may be dropped out of the shell into a bottle, and kept in their juice for a short time by pouring in a little olive-oil, and corking the bottle closely. They may also be preserved good for some time by feeding; and custom, which brings gourmands to admire game when in a state of putridity, has taught some epicures to relish the flavour of stale oysters better than those re- cently taken from the beds. The fresher oysters are, they are the better ; but when to be kept, lay them bottom downwards in a tub, or any vessel suited to the quantity to be preserved, and cover them with water in which a good deal of salt is dissolved. In this manner Apicius sent oysters to