CHAP. III. ROASTING. 98 from one hour to two hours to roast. The breast must not be allowed to sink. Apple-sauce is, by prescription^ served with goose. For delicate cookery, this bird requires a drawn gravy in the dish, its own being often rank and oily. Ohs, To apple-sauce the Cleikum Club preferred onion-sauce; better still, Eedgill^s sauce for roast pork, duck, or goose, and Bauce Robert.—Nos. 292, 293. The gravy may either be poured into the goose by the carver making, for this pur- pose, a slit in the apron, or served in a tureen in thick melted butter; a glass of port or (better) claret is by knowing gour- mands poured into the goose : if so, let it be hot. In Scot- land, it was customary to garnish with slices of raw onion, but the practice is obsolete. Green Geese are roasted in the same manner; but for these thready younglings les^j sage or onion is required. Season them with pepper and salt, and put a good piece of butter into the inside as an interior basting. Froth and brown nicely. The gravy is preserved and served, but more gravy must generally be added. Gooselerry-sauce^ or Redgill^s sauce. (See Sauces,) —Garnish with grated crust of bread.* Salted geese are, in some parts of Ireland and Scotland, served with a cabbage- sauce, or cabbage stewed in good broth. The French roast * The livers of geese and poultry are esteemed a great delicacy by some gourmands; and on the Continent great pains are taken to procure fat overgrown livers. The methods employed to produce this diseased state of the animals are as disgusting to rational taste as revolting to humanity. The geese are crammed with fat food, deprived of drink, kept in an intol- erably hot atmosphere, and fastened by the feet (we have heard of nailing) to the shelves of the fattening-cribs. The celebrated Strashurg -pics., which are esteemed so great a delicacy that they are often sent as presents to distant places, are enriched with these enormous livers. It is, however, a mistake that these pies are wholly made of this artificial animal substance. In England, the goose is sacred to St Michael; in France, to St Martin; in Scotland, where dainties were not going every day, " 'Twas Christmas sent its savoury goose." The Michaelmas goose is said to owe its origin to Queen Elizabeth's dining on one at the table of an English baronet on that happ^ day when she received tidings of the dispersion of the Spanish Armada ; in commemor- ation of which she orderd the Gocse to malte its appearance every Michael- mas. In some places, particularly Caithness, geese are cured and smoked, and are highly relishing. Smoked solan geese are well known as contri- buting to the abundance of a Scottish breakfast, though too rank and fishy- flavoured for unpractised palates. Slices are eaten as whets, or relishes. The goose has made some figure in the English history. The churlish- ness of Richard Cceur de Lion, a sovereign usually good-natured, and distinguished for an insatiable appetite and vigorous digestion, in an affair of roast goose was the alleged cause of his captivity in Germany.