100 CHAP. III. ROASTING. having pared off the outer crust, moisten it in hot water, or broth, press and butter it; and soak it in the dripping in the pan, and serve the partridges on it. This is lighter than fried bread-crumbs, which many good cooks use for these birds. Pheasants must be long kept to bring out their flavour. They require made-gravy of scrag of mutton, or knuckle of veal, but it is better made of beef, and best of all of game. (See Brown Gravy-sauce, Bread-sauce, or Rice- sauce.) — Ohs, We do not recommend the ornament of the pheasant's best tail-feather stuck in his tail; though such things are still heard of. Guinea and pea fovA are dressed and served exactly as pheasants; and by a fiction of cookery, when a brace cannot be procured, a fowl is, on occasion, con- verted into a pheasant. On keeping Game.—Necessity, and the vanity of produc- ing at a dinner what is rare and far-travelled, must first have introduced among cleanly, civilized nations, the custom of over-keeping game, till in time it came to be considered as essential to its perfection that it be kept till putrid, and that what has not flavour may at least \\2^nq fumet. It is at the same time indispensable that game be kept till tender, and the flavour brought out. The same principle applies here as in keeping pears and plums to mellow, after they are gathered. Game, as we have said before, must be longer kept than domestic fowls, to be in proper condition for the table. A great deal has been said on preserving provisions of late years; but we are afraid little has been done. We are certain that very few of the practices recommended have been adopted, and chiefly because that, when tried, they were found wanting. Form, colour, and material may be preserved; but flavour, and even nutritious qualities, have fled before the pyroligneous acid, and the genius of Appert; and mummy partridges, and embalmed green pease survive to please the eye and fill the table—and this so far is highly desirable—but sadly disappoint the palate. Game —we speak not of giving pheasants and grouse to immor- tality— may be kept good a long while, by drawing, crop- ping, picking, and (without washing) rubbing with equal parts of salt, pounded loaf-sugar, and a little pepper. It is a great mistake to wet, much less to wash, any fresh thing intended to be kept. Charcoal and chloride of soda, may also be employed to retard putrefaction. Lay a thin muslin