94 CHAP. III. ROASTING. When done, the shoulder is lifted from the breast so as not to be perceptible, and a Maitre Hotel sauce is slipped in. A clear gravy is served in the dish, and the larded parts are glazed. British lamb does not require larding. See Made-Dishes and Pies of Lamh, 28. To Eoast Pork. Pork takes more of the fire than any other kind of meat. Choose it young, short in the knuckle, fine in the grain, and thick but smooth in the skin.* Cut a hole in the knuckle, widen it with the finger, and stuff it with sage and onions parboiled and chopped fine, pepper, salt, grated crumbs, a piece of butter, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and an egg to cement the whole. With a bunch of feathers rub the skin with salad-oil, or fresh butter tied up in a muslin rag. Do this frequently to prevent the crackling from blistering, and to make it crisp and brown. The crackling must be scored into diamonds twenty minutes before the roast is done ; but unless it look hide- houndj and scorched or shriv- elled, the scoring need not go deep. The roast loin should, however, be first scored in stripes^ with advantage both to the eating and to the appearance. Some cooks add pul- verized sage to the basting. We recommend this only in roasting the griskin. Fork requires a more pungent sauce than sucking pig; yet apple-sauce is occasionally used. Onion-soMce we like better, or Sauce Robert: and con- fidently recommend Dr Redgill's sauce for pork^ goose^ or rahhit. (See No. 292.)—French beans or pease-pudding are served with roast pork. The French serve a poivrade under a roast chine.—Ohs. Sham House Lamb, when the real is scarce and high-priced, is made by skinning a half- grown porker, and cutting it of a proper shape,—N.B. The Cleikum Club countenanced no counterfeits. 27. To Roast Turkey, Fowls, Guinea Fowls, and Game. A TURKEY will keep a fortnight, a fowl a week. By care they will keep longer; that is to say, if drawn, hung in a cool dry air, wiped often, and seasoned with pepper * If pork is fed in sties at dairy farms, that which has fattened on potatoes and buttermilk we consider much better, both in flesh and flavour, than that which has been fed on drenches and kitchen slops. The rationales of scoring pork is to increase the surfaces—in other words, the delicious jaune croquante ; therefore we say,—score awaj^!—P. X,