272 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. them exactly as pickled mushrooms. We have of late used tin-foil as for champagne bottles, for pickles and preserves, or India-rubber capsules. Bladder is better. 376. To PicMe Onions,—Choose small sound silver-onions, as equal in size as may be. Top and tail them, but do not pare the tops very close, as the air will soften and spoil the onions. Scald them with brine. Repeat this on the second day, and, when cold, peel the onions as quickly as possible, throwing them into vinegar as they are done, to prevent their blackening. Boil white-wine vinegar enough to cover them, with sliced ginger, black and white pepper, and mace; when cooled a little, pour it over the onions. Cork them well, as directed for other pickles, and dip in bottle-rosin.— Ohs, Some cooks peel and scald the onions, a few at a time; take them up as soon as they look transparent, and dry them in the folds of a cloth, covering them carefully to exclude the air. Others scald in brine, and then parboil in milk and water. Pickled onions of the shops look beauti- fully white, but some think have little gout* Bed Cabbage.—A firm deep-purple-coloured middle- sized cabbage is best for pickling. Strip off the outer leaves, cut out the stalk; and, dividing the cabbage, cut it down into slices of the breadth of narrow straws. Sprinkle salt over these, and let them lie for two days; then drain very dry, and pour over the sliced cabbage a pickle of boiling vinegar, seasoned highly with black and Jamaica peppers and ginger boiled in it. Cover the jar to keep in the hot steams, and when cold, close it up.—Obs. A few mild onions sliced are thought an improvement to this pickle. The onion takes the beautiful tinge of the cabbage, thus repaying " The grace it borrows with the strength it lends I" 378. Beetroot^ to picJcle.—^Wash the beetroots, but take care not to break the skin or the fibres which hang about them, else the colour will fly. Boil them softly for an hour or more if they are large, or bake them, and as soon as they are cold enough to be handled, peel them, and, cutting them into tliinnish slices, put the slices into a jar, and have ready to pour over them cold, vinegar, in which black and * In the youthful days of Mrs Dods, onions were pickled in their skins, tops, and tails, and only peeled when to be served at table. The flavour was then very little different from that of a raw onion.