274 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. and scrape out tlie seeds. Shoots of green elder are also put to this pickle, in imitation of the Bamboo of the genuine Mango pickle. Instead of being laid in salt, the vegetables may be parboiled in very strong brine, by which means the pickle will be soon ready; but the colour and crispness will be injured, though, on the whole, both for ease of prepara- tion and safety in eating, we think parboiling the preferable method. This pickle is so cheaply bought, whether common or nicely prepared, that few families now make it. 380. To Preserve Barberries.—Tie the clusters to bits of stick, and boil them in syrup. To Pickle Barberries for Garnishing.—Gather fine clusters not quite ripe. Make a brine of eight ounces of salt to the quart of water. Boil it up with a small bit of alum, and when cold, pour it over barberries, or Siberian crabs, laid not too closely in jars. Look at the fruit occasionally, and, if needed, pour off the brine, and supply its place with more, freshly prepared as the first, but with less salt. 381. To Pickle Bitter Oranges and Lemons for Wild Foivl. —Kub the fruit well with salt. Cover them with vinegar, with a handful of coriander-seeds, and some mace. Boil Lip the vinegar once or twice, and when cool pour it again over the oranges or lemons.—See No. 365. 382. To PicJcle Cauliflower or Brocoli.—Take firm, well- coloured vegetables, before they are quite ripe, and cut away the bark of the stems, and all the green leaves. Scald them for four minutes in a pan of boiling brine, and then drain and dry them thoroughly. When dry, pull them into properly-sized branches, trim the stalks smoothly, and pack them up in the jars with the same pickle-liquor as directed for onions or beetroots. 383. Nasturtiums^ to make either a pickle, or for imita- tion caper-sauce, may be prepared in the same manner ; also the seed-pods of the radish, which make another substitute for capers. 3832. rji^ PicJde Tomatas.—Prepare a half-peck, or what you want of well-coloured, small round tomatas. Prick them to let their juices flow for a few hours. Keep this juice covered. Place the tomatas in layers, in a deep jar, strewing between each a thin layer of salt. Cover the jar,