264 CHAP. IX. SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. than a vinegar, as, with butter or gravy added, it supplies the place of a store-sauce for either meat or fish. The anchovies should be omitted when the vinegar is to be Stored. 355. Curry-Vinegar.—Steep curry-powder, in the pro- portion of two ounces to the quart, in the best vinegar, and strain and filter for use. 356. Raspberry-Vinegar,—Pour on fresh-gathered rasp- berries, put in a large stoneware or china dish, or wide- necked bottles, the best champagne vinegar, in the propor- tion of a bottle to two quarts of fruit. Next day pour off the liquor, and pour it over fresh raspberries: where the fruit is plentiful and cheap, you need not mind expressing the juice too carefully; strain through a sieve, but do not bruise the fruit. To every pint of the vinegar and raspberry juice, now blended, allow a full pound of good refined sugar. Break it in pieces, and dissolve it in the juice. Boil the syrup for seven minutes, or it is better to place the whole in a stone jar (not a glazed earthen one), and put the jar (covered) in a kettle of boiling water for an hour; take off what scum arises ; when cool, bottle the vinegar for use. This is an exceedingly pleasant beverage in hot weather. Two spoonfuls mixed with water make a delicious summer draught; but the large quantity of acid which it contains may, in some cases, render it an improper one. With cur- rant-jelly it makes an admirable sauce for roast venison or mutton. It is also made extempore by melting raspberry- jelly in vinegar. 357. Herb Wines, etc. Wine may be impregnated with the flavour of roots and herbs in the same manner as vinegar, and this generous fluid extracts even more of the flavour; and often when vinegar would be objectionable, wine is suitable. The proportions for Eschalot-wine Tarragon-wine^ Basil-wine^ etc.^ are the same as when these herbs are steeped in strong vinegar. Eschalot-wine is that most used and esteemed. 358. Eschalot-Wine,—To four ounces of eschalots dried, chopped, and pounded, or merely bruised, put a bottle of sherry. Infuse for a fortnight and strain off. If for beef