414 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. for homebred people, we would use fewer coriander-seeds, and less turmeric; and blanch the garlic in two waters. Though there is no acid for cookery equal in delicacy to lemon-acid, yet sour apples, tamarinds, and other things are often used to acidulate curries.—See Nos. 82, 534,535,1123. Various Eecipes for Curry-Powders, 758. Have of fresh seeds of the best quality, coriander four ounces, cummin two ounces, fenugreek two ounces, cayenne a quarter of an ounce, China turaieric six ounces. Dry, pound, sift, and weigh the seeds, and use them in the above proportions, adding more cayenne, with acids and turmeric as required, when the dish is dressing. The usual acids are very acid apples or lemon-juice ; or for some curries, tamarinds. If to the above you add black pepper, mustard- flour, and ginger pounded, about a half ounce of each, you have Dr Kitchiner's Curry-Powder, See Simple Curry- powder^ No. 1124. 758^. Rabhit-Curry^ Scottish,—From causes with which we have here no concern, Scotland, within the last thirty years, and especially in the neighbourhood of the preserves of great landed proprietors, is overrun with rabbits: they are found useful to small families far from markets. They are dressed in every way for which we have given receipts, but perhaps, next to the oldest way of No. 15, there is none better than the modern mode of—curry. Choose one or two, as you wish, fat, fresh rabbits. To test them, examine the kidney. Carve each into at least twelve pieces: brown these in but- ter, with onions. When browned, if you wish delicate cookery, pour off the butter, and add three quarters of a pint of well-seasoned stock for each rabbit, a large spoonful of curry-powder, and one of flour, and six ounces of streaky bacon cut into half-inch cubes, and also a half-dozen button- onions for each rabbit: season with a teaspoonful of mush- room-powder. Simmer this slowly for half an hour at least; stirring it. Add what more seasoning you think required, as cayenne^ a little turmeric, or some acid. Pile up the pieces of rabbit, and pour the sauce—which should be thickish, as in all curry-dishes—over them: serve plain boiled ric.e in a separate dish. Fresh cocoa-nut is an excellent ingredient in mild curries. Rasp and stew it the whole time : we do not