CHAP. I. MADE-DISPIES. 277 provoking; and the distress of the young candidate of the stove most pitiable. But " where there is a will there is a way." Book-knowledge was in this case given up in despair, and the manner showrij by an old kitchen-maid in the village, —no great cook. From that period we have held, that unless ladies will learn to put to their own delicate hands, and show their uninstructed cooks how to proceed,—a duty which we certainly do not require of gentlewomen or gentlemen,—the lesson should be given by some one properly qualified. If a lady obtain that rare prize, a thorough cook, nothing more is required than books to refresh her memory and extend her knowledge; but, if only a clever intelligent girl, capable of becoming a cook,—a humble function, which yet requires sound intellectual faculties, whatever may be thought of it,— the mistress should at once send the young woman to where she may see cookery performed in all its departments, from skinning a hare or gutting fish, to the most delicate offices. The cook will, if clever and willing, in a very short time learn to clean thoroughly,—a great point,—to truss, to bone, to kird, to whip, to mill, and fifty other things, which no printed instructions can teach half so well or easily as a single example. Let the young cook, therefore, previous to taking a place, go, or, if selected by a mistress, from being intelligent, active, and hopeful, be sent to observe, and tri/. This, in the first place ; and, while in the A B C of the art, the school should be the kitchen of a family where there is a careful and experienced plain cook. Another step is that recommended in our Introductory Lectures, of seeing hand- some dinners dressed, and assisting in their preparation, in a private family where dinners are given with some frequency. Where more instruction is required, there are now regular French or French-bred professors of the art in most of our considerable towns, who receive pupils, and who, going out to families to prepare company dinners, take their female pupils along with them to look on and assist. Young ladies in the middle ranks do still occasionally take lessons in pastry, confectionary, and preserving,—which for them is going quite far enough; for though it is perfectly right, and, indeed, indispensable, that all young housekeepers should be able to give orders, and even directions, and know when they are well served, it is going to the extreme to hear of gentlewomen who have, or ought to have, other duties and