ARTICHOKES AND GREEN PEASE. 207 192. Jerusalem Artichokes May either be boiled plain, taken up the moment they are done, and served with melted butter poured over them; or cooked with a rich white or brown sauce. They are very good roasted; they are then served on a napkin, and melted butter is eaten with them. They are also mashed, and used in pie or soup. 183. To Boil Green Pease. Pease should not be gathered, or, at any rate, not shelled, till they are to be used. The younger the more delicate; there is also a great difference in the kinds. When the water boils put them in with a little salt and a bit of sugar; skim, and let them boil quickly for from ten or fifteen to twenty-five minutes, trying when they are ready. Soda helps the colour, but is apt to soften young pease too much. Drain them, and put a few bits of fresh butter in the dish, turning them lightly over with a silver spoon till they are buttered. Boil a few sprigs of fresh mint by themselves; chop these fine, and if liked, lay in little heaps round the edge of the dish. Mint is boiled only with old pease. But- tering is a good old English custom. Dr Kitchiner allows " a peck of pease to two hearty pea-eaters.^' We would allow a peck of young pease to six persons. Pease are some- times stewed in good white broth, with sliced lettuce and onion, or with sliced cucumber. These must be nearly cooked before the pease are put in. Thicken the gravy with butter kneaded in flour; season with white pepper and salt, and a sprig of mint, to be taken out before the stew is dished. This is also called pease-saucej and is excellent served with lamb, veal, chickens, ducklings, giblets. The French cook pease savourily with bits of bacon fried, and more delicately with a thickening of beat yolks of eggs, and milk or cream and butter. The colour is hurt, but the flavour of pease, when not yet quite young, is improved.—See No. 699. 194. Windsor and other Beans. Boil them in plenty of water with salt. Serve them with or under bacon or pickled pork. Garnish with chopped parsley, and serve parsley and butter. Kidney or American beans, and Turkey beans, are found a good substitute for