ALMOND, ORANGE, LEMON, AND APPLE PUDDINGS. 453 beat in a mortar to a paste, a half-pound of sweet and a half-ounce of bitter almonds, with a spoonful of orange- flower-water or pure water. Add to this paste three ounces of fresh butter melted in a glass of hot cream, four beat eggs, sugar to taste, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little brandy or curagoa. Bake this in small cups buttered, or in a dish, and serve with a hot sauce of wine, sugar, and butter.—See Nos. 304, 305, 834^. 848. Other Almond- Puddings.—Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds, with a spoonful of rose- water. Then mix four ounces of butter with two spoonfuls of cream warmed in it; four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and sugar and nutmeg to taste. Butter some cups, half fill them, and bake the puddings. Serve on a napkin, with a sauce of butter, wine, and sugar. 849. A halted Almond-Pudding,—Blanch and beat, as above, six ounces of sweet and a dozen bitter almonds, and mix the paste with the beat yolks of six eggs, four ounces of butter, the grate and juice of a large lemon, a pint and a half of cream, and a glass of white wine. Add sugar to taste, and bake in a dish with a neatly-cut paste-border. Ornament the top with sliced almonds or citron. This pud- ding, if plainer, is not worse, if two ounces of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, are added for two of the almonds. 850. Orange-Pudding.—To the grated rind of a large Seville orange put four ounces of fresh butter and six of pounded fine sugar. Beat this in a mortar, and gradually add eight well-beat eggs. Scrape a raw apple into the mix- ture, and put it in a dish lined with paste neatly scolloped on the edge. Cross-bar it with paste-straws, and bake till the paste is done. It may have three penny sponge biscuits, soaked in milk, put to it.—Ohs. Less of the above mixture will do for an ordinary-sized pudding, as this high-flavoured composition goes far. Candied orange-peel beat to a paste makes a fine pudding when used as above. 851. Lemon-Pudding.—Melt half a pound of sugar and six ounces of fresh butter together, and w^hen cold add six eggs very well beat (leaving out three of the whites), and the juice and grated rind of two lemons. Mix all well, and bake in a dish with a puff-paste border, neatly ornamented. 852. An Apple-Pudding.—Pare and grate three-quarters of