316 CHAP. 1. MADE-DISHES the steaks around it, witli sprigs of nicely-boiled cauliflower on eacli steak: or it may be served with spinage, sorrel, or stewed cucumber. Pour melted butter or Bechamel over the gigot. — Ohs. This is a good variety in dressing lamb, and is attended with no additional expense. 497. To Grill a Shoulder of Lamh.—Boil for forty minutes, score in diamonds, and broil or brown it in a Dutch oven. Serve with a clear gravy, or with mushroom or cucumber sauce. A neck of fat lamb is very good boiled and served over mashed turnip, with a little white sauce poured over it. Besides the above methods of cookery, lamb may be dressed as ragout^ collar^ curry^ Cutlets Mazntenon, covered with rice, and in all the ways that mutton is dressed. Cold lamb, whether shoulder or breast, is best re-dressed in the Dutch oven, or by scoring, seasoning, and grilling it; or it may be hashed, though this mode of dressing is not so well suited to lamb as to veal or poultry.—For Boast Lamb, see p. 92. 498. LainVs Stove^ a Scottish Dish,—Clean and blanch the head. Stew it in broth, water, or with a sh^nk of mut- ton, till tender. Add minced parsley, and green onions, and a good deal of mashed spinage, and serve the stew and head together in a deep dish.—Obs. This, nationality apart, we consider an indifferent preparation. It is but a beggarly imitation of the Tete d'Agneau d la pluche verte of our old allies the French.—See No. 457. The brains and liver may be boiled, rubbed through a tammy-cloth, and put to the stew. Asparagus or pease may be substituted for spinage, and the soup thickened with yolks of eggs. 499. Lamb's Stove, by a French Receipt.—Clean two lambs^ heads. Lift up the skin, and cut out the jaw-bones. Let them soak in salt and water; blanch them ; rub them with lemon to whiten them. Let them simmer for an hour in a blanc.^ Drain them ; split the skull; take out the brains, skin the tongues, and split them ; trim the ears. Serve the heads neatly arranged on the dish with a good sauce, and with the harslet boiled for two hours, and minced or cut in scollops and laid under the head or heads, as a ragout: or serve with a green sauce of parsley. One large head will make a dish.—See No. 7482. * See Index for the rich stock called a Uanc,