CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES 294 as in the next receipt: add the same seasonings and a little scraped tongue or ham, moisten it with stock and walnut- pickle, heat and fill up scallop-shapes, laying mashed pota- toes thinly, and neatly marked, or crumbs over the mince. Put some bits of butter over each shape, and set them to warm and brown in an oven.—See Scottish Minced CoUops, No. 734, also Beef Patties and Podovies, No. 829. 424. To Mince Dressed Beef and Beef Cecils. — Mince the beef finely with a very little suet, and warm it up in a small stewpan, with a little broth or water^ minced parsley, eschalot, or onion, and a little vinegar, and what meat-gravy you have saved, which is the best ingredient that can enter into the composition of any hash or mince. Dish the mince with toasted sippets, or poached eggs. Beef Cecils,—Mince the whitest part of dressed meat very nicely, and mix it up with bread-crumbs, minced onions, a chopped anchovy, and parsley, pepper, salt, and a little onion or walnut pickle. Stir this mince over the fire in a small stewpan, with a little melted butter; and, when eold enough to handle, make it up into large oval balls with flour; egg the balls and roll them in crumbs; brown them before the fire, and pour hot gravy, seasoned with eschalot and pepper round them. 425. A Parisian Mode of dressing Cold Beef—Cut the part most underdone in slices, and stew them over embers in a sauce of weak broth, a glass of red wine, a small spoon- ful of tarragon-vinegar, an onion, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, parsley, pepper, salt, and cloves. Serve either hot or cold, with the strained gravy, to which, however, more vinegar must be put if the beef is served cold. The wine may be omitted. 426. To Broil Cold Beef—Cut the slices as steaks, broil them over a very clear fire, or better, heat in a Dutch oven, and serve them with fried eggs, or scalloped potatoes, and steak-sauce, grill-sauce, or any piquant sauce made hot. 427. Another way,—Divide the dressed ribs and shorten them: leave the meat on the upper side about the breadth of an inch. Sprinkle the steaks with salt and mixed spices, and place them in a Dutch oven, basting them with the left gravy of the roast, bread-crumbs, and chopped parsley. Serve them with grill-sauce^ No. 318.