CHAP. IV.—BROILING. 108 oven—for the large expensive joint, which loses both its flavour and succulence in baking, and, at all events, must be eaten cold by the family till it is finished. Such fami- lies know nothing of the pot-au-feu ; they seldom see soup^ rootSj or vegetables, save perhaps a few potatoes on the hot day. The cottage cookery of both rural and urbane Scot- land is superior to that of its neighbours, from the canuT/ skill of the Scotch in the potage, and in the use of roots and vegetables; and this they manage with no additional expense of fuel. Broiling is not, however, the cookery of the cottage economist; and it is of Broiling we now treat. The state of the fire is the primary consideration. It must be clear and radiant, consequently free of smoke. A fire half burnt out is best. The gridiron should rather be over long than too short, and ought to be so contrived that it can be placed at the distance of three, four, five, or six inches above the fire. If a gridiron is well polished at first, there can be no good cause for the bars ever becoming black. Let it be always rubbed when put aside, not only bright on the top of the bars but clear of soot and grease between them. The bars should be narrowest at top, that they may not intercept the heat of the fire. It is requisite to have one gridiron for fish, and another for poultry and steaks. The gridiron must be hot through (which will take five minutes) before anything is put on it. It must then be rubbed with a piece of fresh suet, to prevent the meat from being branded or sticking to the hot bars. If for fish, rub with chalk. Great care must be taken to keep broiled dishes hot, as the small- ness of the articles exposes them more to the action of cold than meat cooked in large pieces. There is great convenience sometimes in perpendicular gridirons; and there is a trifling kind made double of strong wire, with a hinge, which permits the steaks, bacon, or fish to be turned by merely turning the implement; and one with a small dripping-pan and hooks. On the small scale of cookery, these are very convenient. They hang before the fire, or lie over it. P.S.—We have been so often taken in with wonderful, newly-invented frying-pans and infallible gridirons, that we do not venture to recommend any form. We have collected half a garretful of those and other culinary inventions, and