242 CHAP. IX. 3AUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. to whiten it, and so will the icing. This sauce is made gras^ with four hard-boiled yolks rubbed down, pepper, salt, a little salad-oil and tarragon-vinegar, added gradually as above directed, and meat-jelly; rub long and well over ice, to make it smooth. This is an excellent salad-sauce, and is poured over, or served with many cold dishes. See No. 236. When gras, it is used to sauce veal or poultry, re- warmed. Varieties of it are made by the addition of cooked and chopped fine herbs or spinage. We give the most re- fined of them from M. Soyer. Mayonnaise d la gelee.—Put a quarter-pint of melted aspic. No. 606, into a saucepan upon ice. Whisk till it become a white froth: add by slow degrees, first, a half-pint of salad-oil, and then six spoonfuls of tarragon-vinegar, con- tinually whisking till you have a sauce like a smooth white cream. Season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of white pepper, and a very little pounded sugar. Whisk once more, and this most delicate sauce is ready, and may be dressed pyramidically, as high as you please. Keep it in a cool place till served. It is made in the same way, with chopped herbs added: choose parsley, eschalots, or whatever is suitable to your dish. See No. 669. 267. Mushroom-Sauce, wphte,/or i^ow;/5, Veal^ Rabbits, etc.—Pick and wash a large breakfastcupful of small but- ton-mushrooms 5 take off the leathery skin as directed in No. 214, and stew them in Bechamel, No. 279, with pepper, cayenne, mace, nutmeg, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in a good deal of flour or arrow-root to thicken, as the abound- ing liquor of the mushroom requires a good deal of thicken- ing. Stew till tender, stirring them now and then, add four spoonfuls of hot cream, and pour the sauce over the fowls. Those who like a high relish of mushroom may add a spoon- ful of mushroom-juice (drawn off by slightly salting a few for a night), or mushroom-powder.—Obs. The mushrooms may be stewed in cream, and seasoned and thickened as above. Mushrooms pickled white may supply the place of fresh for this sauce. Lay them first in milk for a little. Brown mushroom-sauce is made by stewing mushrooms in brown gravy, No. 257, and adding catsup. 268. Celery-Sauce, white,/or boiled Fowls, Turkey, etc, —Wash, pare, and cut down in thin slices, about two inches