NEWMARKET AND OTHER PUDDING. 455 cult, poimded sugar to taste, four beat-eggs, and a glass of brandy. Mix and bake in a dish with a paste-border.—Ohs, Excellent plain tartlets, and small pasties or turn-overs, may be made of this material. 858. Bread-and-Butter^ or Newmarket Pudding,—Boil a pint and a quarter of good milk for a few minutes, with the rind of half a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a bay-leaf. Put in fine sugar -to taste, and as the milk cools mix it grad- ually with the well-beat yolks of six eggs, and three of the Avhites separately beaten. Let this soak, and cut and butter thinly with fresh butter, slices of bread about a quarter-inch thick. Line a pudding-dish or mould neatly with the bread, and then place a layer of cleaned currants and a few raisins stoned and chopped, then again bread, and then fruit; but have the top layer of buttered bread. Pour the prepared custard through a sieve over this; let it soak for an hour, and bake or steam the pudding for a half-hour, or rather more. A few large raisins or small French plums, laid in order in the bottom of the mould, and embossed in the bread, have a good effect when the pudding is turned out. 858^ Another Bread-and-Butter Pudding, — Proceed as above, but use layers of any kind of rather thick jam instead of currants and raisins. 859. Cha7icellor^s or Cabinet Pudding^ a very delicate Pudding. — Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon-peel, and some fine sugar, and pour it hot over a half-pound of crumbled newly-baked Savoy cake in a basin. Cover the dish. When the cream is soaked up, add the yolks and whites of eight eggs, separately well whisked. Bake the pudding, and serve with custard-sauce. No. 868. Stoned dates, plums, or raisins may be added, and also minced marrow, almonds, and grated citron. 860. Ginger-Puddings. — Season a Chancellors pudding with two ounces of green preserved ginger. Steam it in a shape.—Ohs. The fruit in all these puddings should be cut and arranged in form round the mould, to look well when the pudding is turned out. 861. New College Puddings,—Beat six yolks and three whites of eggs, and mix them to a smooth batter with three heaped spoonfuls of flour, a little ginger, and half a grated nutmeg, with pounded sugar to taste. Add four ounces of