PASTRY. 393 Pate Royale may, as formerly said, be rolled out, stamped with paste-cutters, and dressed in any form you choose, serving any sort of preserved sweetmeat neatly upon or within it. 717. Brioche Paste.—Every one who has had the felicity of seeing Paris, has, of course, paid for it in many ways besides by being deafeaned with shrill cries of ^' Brioches " Gateaux de Nanterre /" etc. The brioche paste is, notwith- standing, the first-rate article of its kind in Europe, when pro- perly prepared; and by a variation in the shapes of the Gateaux and a few additions, it may be produced in fifty forms of cake. It is made (in the best way) in the following manner and proportions:—Have four pounds [equal to four and a half English weight] of dry fine flour; take one-fourth of this to make the leaven in this manner; make a hole in the centre of the flour, into this pour a small wineglassful of sweet yeast, and over this as much hot water as will make it a rather thick leaven. Set this covered before the fire, making a few transverse incisions on the surface. Give it fifteen or twenty minutes to rise. Then leaven the remaining flour thus:—Throw a little beat salt, and some sugar, both melted in water, over the flour. Make a hole in the middle of it. Crumble down two pounds of butter, and break a dozen eggs into it. Knead it up quickly, once and again, till well mixed, and pour the prepared leaven equally over it. Divide it into pieces, which knead and toss about, changing their place continually to blend the whole materials equally and well. Next beat up the whole together, and keep the brioche paste in a medium temperature (according to the state of the weather) rolled up in a cloth, dusted with flour, and spread another over the deep vessel in which it is laid. Next day (for it works the better for lying over a night) break and mould the paste into any form you please, large or small. By the addition of currants or sugar, you have sugar-loaves and Gateaux de Nanterre. Add currants and fine stoned raisins, and you have the Gateaux de Compiegne. Tinge the paste with saffron diluted in water, and add a glass of Madeira or sweet wine, and by moulding in proper shapes you have Babas. The moulds should be buttered; and care must be taken that the babas are not scorched a-top, as colour is always of consequence.—A still better prepara- tion for a full-tooth epicure, is Brioche au Fromage^ made by strewing well-flavoured Swiss, Italian, or English cheese R 2