FISH-PIES AND SAUCES. 191 be made of perch, mackerel, herrings, soles, flounders, had- docks, etc. The tough or oily fish must be previously skinned. Fish-pies may be baked open^ and we think are best so, with merely a border, and when dished, a sprink- ling of minced hard white of eggs strewed over.—See Potato Pasty^ No. 875. 162. A Eich Fish-Pie, or Baked Fish. Three middling-sized haddocks, mackerels, or soles, will make a pie. They may be stuffed, well-seasoned, and laid in an oval flat dish, with a puff-paste border and centre ornament, or an edging of mashed potatoes neatly marked. Stick plenty of butter over them; or, better, glaze and cover with bread-crumbs. Balls of fish-forcemeat, or yolks of hard-boiled eggs, may be employed to enrich the dish; or for plain dinners, potato-balls. If wanted very high- dressed, the fish may be laid on forcemeat, and have a rich sauce poured hot over them when baked.—Ohs, These may be served yet more elegantly d la Matelote^ or d la Genevoisej Nos. 681, 685. 163. Sauces for Fish-Pies, or for Fresh Fish. Take a quarter-pint of the best vinegar, the same quantity of white wine, a large spoonful of oyster-liquor, and another of catsup, with two anchovies boned and chopped. Boil this sauce for two minutes, and, skimming it, pour it hot through a funnel into the pie when to be served. 164. A Provincial way. Take a half-pint of good thick cream, a dessert spoonful of soy, two anchovies boned and chopped, and a bit of butter rolled in browned flour. Boil it up in a small saucepan, and pour it hot into the pie. 165. To Boil Lobsters and Crabs. Choose lobsters and crabs by their weight, alertness, and fresh smell. The tail of the lobster, when fresh, will be stiff and springy; and so will the claws of the crab.* Fill * Lobsters and crabs are in high season from March till October; so that they supply the place of oysters, which come in about the time that lobsters go out of season. Lobsters are held in great esteem by gastrologers for the firmness, purity, and flavour of their flesh. When they find refuge in the rocky fastnesses of the deep from the rapacity of sharks and fishermen, they sometimes attain an immense size, and have been found from eighteen inches to upwards of two feet in length. Apicius, who ought to be the