72 CHAP. II.—-BOILING. 6. To Boil a Leg^ of Lamb. Lamb must be boiled slowly to look plump and white; and is served with brocoli, spinage, turnip, or cauliflower. Garnish with sprigs of boiled cauliflower. The loin may be cut in steaks and nicely fried, and served round the boiled leg with crisped parsley.—See Made-Dishes of Lamb, 6. To Boil Veal. Veal, save the gristly parts, when plainly boiled, is too insipid to be much relished. But variety, economy, and veal broth or gravy, sanction this mode of cookery. Boiled veal looks detestable when slobbery and red-coloured; and to prevent this, particular attention must be paid to the boiling. It is eaten with bacon, or sausage. Sauce—Pars- ley and butter, onion-sauce of young onions, or any favourite pi^uante sauce.—See Made-Dishes of Veal. 7. To Boil Venison.* A NECK, and even a haunch, is somtimes boiled. Let it hang from three days to ten. Boil it as mutton. It is eaten with turnip or cauliflower, with which last garnish. Sauce—Melted butter, and a little of any of the flavoured vinegars you choose. See Vension Soup - see also Civet de ChevreuiL 8. To Boil Poultry, t In picking, be careful not to break the skin, in drawing not to break the gall-bag. Let the fowls hang from two to five days; for the most delicate fowl will be tough and thready if too soon dressed. When to be used, draw, singe, * It is only in the hunting-grounds of America that one could bear to hear of venison so scandalously cooked ; hut when very plentiful it may he made into stew-soup, which possesses the wild flavour so prized by les kommes de houche.— P. T. -j- So little is the proper keeping of fowls previous to dressing attended to in country inns and families, that, warned by experience, the arrival of a stranger is the signal for the whole poultry in remote places to run otf and burrow among the nettles, to eschew their fate for yet another day. The bounty of a penny sterling, which travellers have sometimes heard offered on the head of "the old cocJc to make brandered chicken for the gentleman's dinner," is often earned with the sweat of his brow by the galopin loitering about the inn-door, so knowing do those old stagers become.—As a house for the wayfarer, and the solitary chance-traveller, poultry was at all times a main article in the larder of the Cleikum. where