206 CHAP. VIII. ^VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. inches thick or two dozen each; cut the stalks of equal length, and put them heads downmost into a stew-pan of quick-boiling water, with plenty of salt. Notice when the stalks are tender, and take them up before they lose their flavour or colour. Have ready, nicely toasted, a slice of a round loaf; dip it for a few seconds into hot water, and, squeezing, lay it in the middle of the dish, and serve the asparagus upon it with the heads meeting inwards as a pyramid. Serve beat butter in a boat, with a little vinegar, if liked. (See No. 698.)—The same receipt is applicable to sea-kale^ except that no bread is served with it.* Cut out the black part of the roots. Let it be well drained. Sal- sify.—Scrape the roots. Throw them into water. Cut into three inch lengths, and boil with a bit of butter, salt, and vinegar. Serve with white sauce. Sea-kale may also be parboiled, drained and stewed in gravy, or boiled, and have sauce hlanche poured on it. See Nos. 189, 700, and 698. 191. To Boil Artichokes. Strip off the coarse outer leaves, and cut off the stalks. Steep and wash them in plenty of water, and boil them with the tops downwards, keeping up the boil (adding boiling water, when wanted), if old for from two to three hours. Float a plate over them to keep them below the water. Try a leaf, and if it draw out easily they are done, Drain them, and serve with melted butter in small cups, a very little in each, or with melted butter in a sauce-boat.—To Fry. Boil; take away the chokes^ divide the bottoms, dip in batter, fry and serve with melted butter. (See No. 882.)—Artichoke bottoms, if dry, may be soaked^ and then stewed in clear broth, and served with a little hot relishing forcemeat laid in each; or they may be boiled in milk and water, and served with cream-sauce. They are frequently sliced to enrich ra- gouts, turtle-soups, pies, etc. The French cut the bottoms undressed, and serve them as salad,, dipping the slices in oil or vinegar.—See No. 701. * So well was the cultivation of vegetables understood by the Eomans, that at Ravenna asparagus were raised for the tables of the great, of which three weighed a pound. Nettle-tops, alder-buds, and cliver were among their pot-herbs. Asparagus is thought medicinal. This vegetable is equally a favourite in Paris and London, where enormous quantities of it are consumed. Young buds of the hop form a wholesome substitute for asparagus. See French Cookery of Asparagus^ No. 608.