CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES. 333 melting of it; or tlie cheese may be toasted on the under side before being put upon the bread. 560. Cheese-Fritters,—Pound good cheese with bread- crumbs, raw yolks, rasped ham, and butter. Make this into small oval balls; flatten, dip in stiff fritter-batter, No. 882, and fry them. 561. Savoury Cheesecakes.—Take four ounces of butter, four of good grated cheese, four beat eggs, a little cream, salt, and pepper; mix, and bake in paste cases. 562. Braised Cheese.—Melt some slices of any rich mild cheese in a small dish over a lamp or over steam. Add })utter and pepper, and mustard if chosen. Have ready a soft toast in a hot-water dish or cheese-dish with a hot-water reservoir, and spread the cheese on the toast. 563. Welsh-Gallimaufry.—Mix well, in a mortar, cheese with butter, and mustard. Add wine, flavoured, and vine- gar, or any such ingredient admired, ad libitum. 564. A Scotch'Rahhit.—^^Cut, toast, and butter the bread, as in No. 559, and keep it hot. Grate down mellow Stilton, Gouda, Cheshire, or good Dunlop cheese ; and, if not rich, put to it some bits of fresh butter. Put this into a cheese- toaster which has a hot-water reservoir, and add to it a small glassful of well-flavoured brown-stout porter, a tea- spoonful of made-mustard, and pepper (very finely ground) to taste. Stir the mixture till it is completely dissolved, brown it, and then, filling the reservoir with boiling water, serve the cheese, with hot, dry, or buttered toasts, on a separate dish.—Ohs. This is one of the best plain preparations of the kind that we are acquainted with. Some gourmand's use red wine instead of porter; but the latter liquor is much better adapted to the flavour of cheese. Others use a proportion of soft putrid cheese, or the whole of it in that Btate. This is, of course, a matter of taste beyond the juris- diction of any culinary dictator. To dip the toasts in hot porter makes another variety in this preparation.—Pasped Parmesan is largely used by Italian and French cooks to flavour ragouts and soups, and many dishes of vegetables. It is seldomer employed in our insular cookery than it should be.