CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GPvAVIES. 138 points, and dressed, into tlie strained soup before serving ; or substitute fried bread cut into dice.—Ohs. Adding con- somme to cold dressed young pease [petits pois) or asparagus, will, with thickening and seasoning, make a good and eco- nomical extempore Potage, 77. An excellent ^ovo^—Maigre, Melt a half-pound of butter very slowly, and put to it four onions sliced, a head of celery, and a carrot and tur- nip cut down. When the vegetables have fried in the butter for a quarter of an hour, and are browned on all sides, put to them nearly three quarts of boiling water, and a pint and a half of young pease, with twelve white and Jamaica peppercorns. When the vegetables are quite ten- der, let the soup stand to clear from the sediment, and strain it into a clean stew-pan. If not yet sufficiently transparent, let it stand an hour, and turn it carefully over. When it boils, put to it three onions shred, or five young ones ; a head of celery cut in fillets, carrots sliced, or cut as wheels or stars, and turnips scooped the size of marbles. When the vegetables are enough done, without the soup getting ropy from their disso- lution, the soup is finished. This and all savoury vegetable soups are, we think, the better of a spice of cayenne."^ 78. The best Yellow Pease-Soup. To a pound and a half of split-[- pease, soaked and floated^ to separate the bad ones, and, if very hard, soaked again for two hours in a quart of lukewarm water, add three quarts of very soft water, and three pounds of neck or shin beef, or of any sincAvy, lean, gelatinous piece, or trimmings of meat or poultry ; a slice of bacon, or a knuckle of either a bacon or mutton ham scalded (the root of a tongue salted a little, and well soaked to draw out all the slime, does very well) ; two well-sized carrots, two turnips, and four large or six * Always rub down cayenne with some liquid before using it, as you would avoid spasm of the windpipe.—P. T. f Whole pease are often sweeter and better than those which are split. In country families that study economy, pease of the grey kind are often shelled at the mill, and used as white boilers. The colour is not so fine, but the soup is equally good, if not better. Pease will mellow better in the pot, if first soaked a night, and then allowed to dry. They may be broken in a mill. New and excellent kinds are coming into use. We have seen the " Glasgoia Brosc-meaV^ used to advantage in thickening Pease and even Mullagatawny soups. It is a high-toasted, very fine-pea flour.