CHAP. III. BUTTEE-MAKING. 584 horrid compound sold in England as salt butter." There is, however, much excellent salt butter sold in England and in Scotland too, and except for delicate culinary purposes, we see little in our climate to recommend boiled butter, which was probably originally introduced in France from the high price of salt during the gabelle. The butter is brought to the boiling point in two hours, stirred every five or ten minutes, and kept slowly boiling for two more hours, and then pro- ceeded with as directed in our own receipt. Dr Forbes saw one Swiss goodwife who added a very little salt to the melting mass, not bad practice,—and another who met a rancid taint with a slice of onion ! We would allow twenty minutes or a half-hour that the butter should boil to separate the cheesy part effectually; but certainly not four hours of melting and boiling. The great secret of curing butter is to express every particle of milk by the brisk manipulation of a tidy dairymaid before any salt is given; and even less salting material than we allow will answer if the air is carefully excluded from the tubs and jars by pickle. Honey Butter is sometimes clarified as above, and preserved by melting about an ounce of honey to the pound with it. It keeps well if potted, and answers admirably for sweet crust, cakes, and shortbread. In the East butter is melted in the sun, and kept in skins like wine. The Icelanders allow their butter to become sour, and seldom use it either fresh or salted. With them, butter, like wine in other countries, is chiefly valued for its age. One pound of old sour butter {Surt smcere) is reckoned worth two of fresh. The same people cook their meat in sour whey, esteeming the broth thus made the better half of the dish. They keep sour whey in casks as one of their favourite dainties. Happy, nay, providential instincts these of a people who, from their common food, must be predisposed to scurvy. 1201. Filbert-Butter.—Pound a few filberts to a paste. Chop picked parsley, chives, and tarragon, very fine. Knead them with butter and the nut-paste, and roll up in small shapes for a delicate hors d^ceuvre. 12012. To Boll or Squirt Butter for a Cheese-Course, or for Break- fast, and to Garnish Dishes.—Have two small wooden fluted spoons, such as are used for lifting butter. Wash and boil them as often as wanted. Dry them well, and rub them with a bit of butter to clean them perfectly; then, between them, lightly roll up bits of butter in form of corks, fir-cones, small pine-apples, shells, etc. Butter is used in many ways for garnishing salads of meat or fish, ham, eggs, anchovies, etc. It looks well when squirted in little tufts, or little delicate coral branches, or open lacework, or fine basketwork. Borders are made of butter coloured red with carmine, or green with spinage- juice; we admire them no more than pink table-salt. They may be carved or stamped in a variety of devices. These are best made of Montpelier butter (No. 601), bat require a French cook.—See No. 580. 1202. To Scoop Butter. — Dip the teaspoon or reeded scooper in warm water, if in cold weather. Scoop quickly and thin, and heat the spoon again and again if needful. 12022. To Preserve Milk or Cream for Sea Store.—Boil fresh milk or cream with pounded sugar half its weight, for ten minutes or more, stirring it. Bottle and cork closely.