220 CHAP. VIII.—VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 220. Mashed Potatoes may be pressed into patty-pans previously buttered, and turned out and browned; or put into stoneware scallop-shell shapes, glazed with egg, and browned before the fire, sticking a few bits of butter upon them. A few of these make a pretty supper-dish. 221. Potato-Snow^ a favourite way of cooking Potatoes.— Choose white, mealy, smooth potatoes; pare them; boil them carefully, and when they crack pour off the water, and put them to dry on the trivet till quite dry and powdery. Rub them through a coarse wire-sieve on the dish they are to go to table on; and do not disturb it, or the flakes will fall and flatten. 222. Potato-Balls,—Mash, roll up with yolk of egg and a little flour, and fry them in good dripping, or brown them. Scooped Potatoes.—Scoop with a proper cutter, parboil, steam, dry, and serve with white sauce, as entremets. 223. Potatoes dressed in a French mode for Nursery Dinners^ etc.—Stir new milk into mashed potatoes till the mixture is as thin as double cream. Boil this with a little butter, pepper, and salt, for ten minutes. 224. Potato-Balls Ragout are also made of mashed potatoes, by adding grated ham or tongue, minced parsley and onion, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, and a little of any flavouring ingredient that is suited to the dish they are to accompany. Small ragout halls of potatoes form an agreeable addition to open fish-pies, or make a neat supper-plate. 225. Westphalia Loaves^ a Supper Dish^ or to eat with Veal, etc.—Grate four ounces of cooked lean ham, and mix it with a pound of good potatoes, mashed with butter. Add salt, pepper, and two eggs, to bind the ingredients. Mould this into small loaves, or shape it in patty-pans, and fry and serve in a brown gravy, or without sauce. 226. A Potato-Collar, rolled handsomely up, scored in diagonal lines, and nicely browned, makes a neat potato- dish. Garnish it with potato-balls around it, and a brown onion gravy-sauce, or plain melted butter, which we would recommend in place of the wine-sauce ordered by learned cooks. 227. Potato-Fritters (Scotch). — Parboil waxy, long- shaped potatoes, dip them (sliced) in egg, bread-crumbs, and