PUFF-PASTE. 423 to the thickness of a half inch. In the centre of this square place the cold firm ball of prepared butter. Lap the paste over and over it, making all tight in three folds. Flatten with strokes of the paste-roller, and roll it out quickly and lightlj, to the length of 36 inches. This rolling gives the first turn, as it is called; and from five, six, and for vols-au- vent, even seven are sometimes given. It is to be presumed that the butter is now equally spread over the crust, which must be again folded up in three, and if needful left to rest and cool between the several turns. Unless it is kept quite cool at all times, the work will be spoiled. Always roll from you; dredge on flour when needful, and roll out the crust as far as it will go, and always of equal thickness. Whether four, five, or six tur7is are given, the crust is always finished by a half-turn ; that is by being doubled up in two folds ready for use, and the sooner baked the better. When well done, this crust is superior in appearance to that made by the old process of dividing the butter into four equal parts, and sticking them at four different times equally over the rolled-out paste, which thus gets four turns and a half. But it requires more dexterity, and is more apt to fail, from the ball of butter breaking through the paste at some place or other. Very good-looking crust is still made by the old process. Brushing the paste as often as rolled out, and the bits of butter stuck on, with the white of an egg, helps it to rise in flakes or leaves^ to the height of 4 or 5 inches, the great beauty of puff-paste. 772. Savoury pies, made of fresh materials, properly sea- soned, and not overdone—their besetting fault—are, whether hot or cold, very generally liked. They are economical, since a good pie may be made of a piece of meat that would neither stew, roast, nor boil, so as to make a handsome dish; and they are convenient at table, since they may be divided and subdivided to any length, with little trouble to the car- ver. Pies like curries can be made of every thing, and they eat better cold than meat dressed in any other way. A solid raised pie is a larder in itself, and is as useful on the moors or at sea as in country situations, where families are liable to the incursions of voracious chance visiters. All pie- meat SHOULD BE BONED. 772^. Cheap Crust for Raised Meat-Pies,—Boil an ounce