437 SMALL PUFFS. best formula.—Bake or boil slightly a couple of pounds of the fine lean of good beef, or better, of tongue. Mince this, or scrape it. Mince also two pounds of fresh suet, two of apples, pared and cored, three pounds of fresh currants, rubbed, picked, and dried, and a pound and a half of best raisins stoned. Let the things be separately minced till fine, but not so fine as to run together; then mix them well with a pound of beat sugar, and a teaspoonful of pounded salt, a half-ounce of ground ginger, the same weight of allspice and bruised coriander-seeds, some beat cloves, two nutmegs grated, the juice and grated rind of two lemons and of two Seville oranges, half a pound of candied lemon and orange peel, and a quarter-pound of candied citron, all sliced. Mix the seasonings equally with the meat. Keep the minced meat closely pressed in cans in a cool, dry, airy place. Put a half-pint of brandy, or pine-apple rum, into a bottle with double that quantity of Madeira or sherry, and a half-pint of orange-flower water. When to be used, cover baking- pans of any size, small saucers, or a small flat pie-dish, with puff or plain paste. Moisten the mince-meat with the wine and brandy; add some fresh grate and juice of lemon. The chopped apples may also be added at this stage. Fill the pies. Put a cover of puff-paste over them, and, if a plain paste, ice it. Pare the edges neatly, and ornament the top with stamps or a paste-knife. Half an hour of a moderate oven will bake these pies. Slip them out of the tins, and serve them hot.—Ohs, Mince-pies may be made cheaper, and yet tolerably good, by substituting gravy for wine; or by using home-made wine (ginger wine is best); by lessening the quantity of expensive fruits and spiceries, and taking any bit of good dressed beef the larder affords. 816. Superlative Mince-pies.—Rub with salt and mixed spices the lean of a fat bullock's tongue. Let it lie for three days, and parboil, skin, and mince or scrape two pounds of it. Mince separately two pounds of beef kidney suet, two of stoned raisins, three pounds of Zante currants, picked, plumped, and dried, a dozen of lemon pippin apples pared and cored, and a half-pound of blanched almonds, with a few bitter ones. Mix the mince, and add a half-pound of candied citron and orange peel minced, and an ounce of beat cinnamon and cloves, with the juice and grated rind