CHAP. II.—FRENCH COOKERY. 800 and skinned) in a symp made of—for twenty-four—a half- pound of sugar, and the juice of two lemons. When ten- der, take them up to cool, and to the syrup add three table- spoonfuls of apricot marmalade. Have previously pre- pared six ounces of rice slowly cooked in milk, sweetened with foiir ounces of sugar, and enriched with four of fresh butter, and four beat eggs. Let the rice, with these addi- tions, thicken, stirring it. Cool and dress it on the dish, eight inches wide and three high, with a hollow in the cen- tre to receive, heaped pyramidically, the prepared apricots. Garnish to taste with preserved angelica.—Ol>s. This receipt is applicable to pears and apples au inz ; and the latter may be served hot. 708. Fears in Sugar.—Put a clove into the eye of each pear. Throw them into hot water to scald them. Pare and keep them under water to preserve the colour. Boil them in thin syrup made of a large pint of water to a half-pound of sugar. Add the juice of a lemon, and serve in a glass dish, in the syrup. Another way,—Divide large pears. Take out the seeds. Blanch them in hot water and lemon-juice, to keep the colour white. Pare them. Throw them into fresh water, and give them a few boils in thin syrup before serving them in it. Apples may be dressed in the same way, but must be longer boiled. 709. Apples d la Portuguaise.—"Wash and core fine large rennets, but do not pare them. Prick them with a knife^ and boil them in thin syrup. Then put them in an earthen dish under a small furnace, or in a Dutch oven, to brown^ basting them with the syrup. 710. Peaches in Sugar.—Blanch six or eight in hot water that they may easily peel, then give them a boil in syrup, and serve. The French serve all sorts of fruit en compotes, which form tasteful and economical dishes. Serve all these in a compote dish or any suitable glass dish. See Ornamen- tal Dishes. 710^. Miroton de Pomme.—Pare a dozen rennets, or best American apples. Slice them about a quarter of an inch thick. Pierce out the cores with a marked paste-cutter. Melt two ounces of fresh butter, to which put six of the best pounded sugar, the juice of two lemons and the grate of one.