CHAP. III. MAKING CHEESE. 586 American way to keep.—Y/hen the cheese is sufficiently dried, cover it with folds of paper pasted on, so as completely to exclude the air. It will keep for a long while, and keep clean. We now get, though still too rarely, admirable cheese from America. Chopped sage, or the expressed juice of young red sage, caraway-seeds, etc.,* a]»3 em- ployed to flavour cheese, and various substances are sold to heighten the colour. Of these saffron and annatto are the most inoffensive. Housewives, who make this branch of economy their study, will find many observations worthy of attention in " Arthur Young's Tour in France and Italy," a few in The Farmer^s Magazine, and in the papers of the Bath Society, and in Blackwood's Journal of Agrimdture^ and the Transactions of the Highland Society. We merely subjoin a few receipts which are not in general circulation, though of approved merit. 1203. Rennet, or Yearning, to make. — Bead carefully No. 12112. Eennet is useful even where there is no dairy, as whey is often wanted, and with a little rennet a cheap elegant second course or supper-dish for warm weather may be furnished; and an agreeable variety given to the milk diet of schools, nurseries, and invalids. Eennet for dairies is made of the stomach {i.e. maw) of the calf, and also of that of pigs and hares, and of the membrane which lines the gizzards of fowls and turkeys. This last makes the gallino rennet of Italy. Some plants are also used for rennet, as lady's bed-straw, an acrid species of thistle, and artichoke, also wine and vinegar, in making wheys. Maw skins should be prepared the season before they are wanted. The calf should be at least a month old. Clean the maw of chyle, curd, and all impurities. Turn it inside out, and rub well with salt. From two to twenty, or twice that number, or whatever number, pack close in a stone jar, strewing salt between and over them, and covering up. A month or more before they are wanted, drain them from the brine; strew fresh salt over both sides, and roll them out with a paste roller. Next stretch them out with splints of wood, and hang up to dry. In some well-managed English dairies, they are seen like sheets of parchment, and beautifully white. There is no settled rule for the quantity of rennet to be used; the steep, as it is called, varies so much in strength. But the following approximates to the medium:—for thirty gallons of milk, cut an inch and a half from the top of one maw, and an inch from the bottom of another. As maws differ considerably in the power of coagulating milk, parts of two are thus taken to equalize the strength. These pieces are soaked in a quarter-pint of water, and a very small quantity of salt the day before the rennet is dropped through a sieve into the milk, along with the annatto for colouring. This material does not, in the opinion of Cheshire farmers, improve the flavour of cheese, and is not used for cheese to be consumed in their families, but it renders their commodities more marketable. One pound of prepared annatto gives sufficient colour to a ton of cheese; and one pound of salt is considered sufficient to salt forty-two pounds of curd; the stronger the rennet * To the herb melilot, which grows in abundance in some of the cheese districts of Switzerland, is ascribed the peculiar flavour of the Swiss cheese, as Cheshire made at particular seasons is fancied to owe its fine flavour to the wild radish on which the cows feed.