513 WAFERS. smooth dough. If it is not moist enough, put in a little more warm water: then cut off one-third of the dough, and lay it aside for the cover. Take three pounds of stoned raisins, three pounds of cleaned currants, half a pound of blanched almonds cut longways; candied orange and citron peel cut, of each eight ounces; half an ounce of cloves, an ounce of cinnamon, and two ounces of ginger, all beat and sifted. Mix the spices, then spread out the dough; lay the fruit upon it; strew the spices over the fruit, and mix all together. When it is well kneaded, roll out the cover. Cover it neatly, trim it round the sides, prickle it, and bind it with paper to keep it in shape; set it in a pretty quick oven, and, just before you take it out, glaze the top with a beat egg.* Surely too much yeast. 1038. Wafers. We have Wine, Butter, Cream, Brandy, Flemish, Spanish^ and Almond wafers. The French have these, and many more, as Pistachio and Vanilla Gauffres, generally served as entremets. Almond is a sort commonly made. Mix in equal quantities dry flour and sifted sugar. To every six spoonfuls of this which you mean to use, allow three eggs, and four ounces of chopped almonds or pistachios. Beat the mass. Put a very little fresh yeast to it if you have it, and moisten it down to a thickish batter with good cream. Work the ingredients well, and let the whole settle a while. When wanted, rub wafer-irons, or baking tins with fat bacon, or fine wax. A teaspoonful of batter will make one wafer. Drop and let it spread. Bake carefully in a rather warm oven. Detach the wafers from the irons one by one with a knife, rolling each up, while still soft, round a small wooden roller. They should be thin as gossamer. Other kinds are * These buns, weighing from four to eight, ten, twelve, and sixteen, or more pounds, are still sent from Edinburgh, from the depots of Littlejohn, Mackie, and others, to many parts of the three kingdoms. Every country town, rural village, and neighbourhood in England, Scotland, and Ireland, has its favourite holiday-cake, or currant-loaf, under some such name as " Lady Bountiful's Loaf,'' "Mrs Notable's cake," "Miss Thrifty's bun," etc., etc. We do not pretend to give receipts for all these—the formula is endless—and they are all good.—The Irish receipt for Brade Breachd^ No. 1047, is nearly the substance of all of them. That they be well raised and well fired is all that is of any importance. They should be baked in a dome-shaped fluted mould or Turk's cap, but look still more imposing at holiday-times, formed like large, respectable^ old-fashioned household loaves. Leavened dough may be bought for them from the bakers. Y 2