CHEESE EGGS. 339 565. Cheese to Serve as a Eelish.—Greite three ounces of good mellow cheese, and the same quantity of bread. Mix these with two ounces of butter, the beat yolks of two eggs, some made-mustard, pepper, and salt. Mash in a mortar, and spread this paste on small toasts, which cut as sippets. Toast, brown, and trim these, and serve them very hot.* Different Ways of Dressing Eggs and Omelets. 566, To Poach Eggs.—Boil and skim spring-water. Put a little vinegar to it. Open the eggs (which should be at least two days laid) with the point of a knife, that the meat may slide gently out without breaking. Take off the stew- pan, and slide them gently into the boiling water, taking care to break their fall. Turn the shell above the egg as you dip it into the water to gather in all the white. Let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire till the whife is set, and then put it on the fire for two minutes. Take up the eggs with a slice; trim away the broken parts of the whites, and serve them on toasts, slices of cold meat, broiled pork-sausages, spinage, brocoli, sorrel • also with veal-gravy. —Obs, Poached eggs may be served with a sauce of grated ham, shred onions, parsley, pepper, and salt, stewed for ten minutes in weak stock. When ready, thicken and strain the sauce, and, when it is a little cool, cover the eggs with * Toasted Cheese.—This academic, histrionic, and poetical preparation has produced a good deal of discussion in its day. The Welsh-Rahhit (by the way, we are inclined to think with a learned friend that the true read- ing is Welsh-Rarebit) has ever been a favourite morsel with those gentle- men who think a second supper fairly worth the other three regularly- administered meals of the day. The twenty-eighth maxim of O'DoHERTr is wholly dedicated to this tasteful subject, and his culinary opinions are worthy of profound attention. " It is the cant of the day," quoth Sir Morgan, " to say that a Welsh-Rabbit is heavy eating. I know this,— but did I ever feel it in my own case ?—Certainly not. I like it best in the genuine Welsh way, however:—that is, the toasted bread buttered on both sides profusely; then a layer of cold roast-beef, with mustard and. horseradish; and then, on the top of all, a superstratum of Cheshire thoroughly saturated, while in the process of toasting, with civrio^ or, in its absence, porter—genuine porter—black pepper, and eschalot-vinegar. I peril myself upon the assertion, that this is not a heavy supper for a man who has been busy all day till dinner in reading, writing, walking, or riding,—who has occupied himself between dinner and supper in the dis- cussion of a bottle or two of sound wine, or any equivalent, and who pro- poses to swallow at least three tumblers of something hot ere he resigns himself to the embrace of Somnus. With these provisoes, I recommend toasted cheese for supper."