236 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. a glassful of lukewarm water into the thickened sauce, and set the saucepan on the hearth, which will drive those crude particles to the top, when they can be removed, and the cook, in serving up a clear sauce, reap the reward of her care. This mode of refining may also be employed for soups and white sauces; but be it remembered, that the watery ordeal, while it contributes to the beauty, injures the flavour of these gusty compositions. The gravy served with roast ducks, hare, wildfowl, goose, etc., etc., if clear, is too often little better than amber-coloured water. When gravy is scanty for roasts, we would advise that the con- tents of the dripping-pan be strained (presuming that the first rank greasy droppings of goose, etc., are laid aside) and thickened with brown roux^ or potato or rice flour, and have the addition of a little walnut-pickle, or catsup. The eye admires clear gravy (often little better than coloured water), the palate relishes a cleared but savoury thickened gravy, like the above.—See Sugar Browning^ No. 369. 256. The Best Beef-Gravy, or Jus de Bceuf, The Basis of many Sauces for Made-Dishes, For strong gravy we would once more recommend, in place of all other parts of the animal, the lean but juicy pieces of good meat. The gelatinous pieces are better adapted for soup than for rich gravy, which is, in fact, the concentrated extract of beef. Ox-kidney is sometimes em- ployed from motives of economy ; it makes a strong- flavoured and rich-coloured, but certainly not a very deli- cate gravy. Cut the gravy-beef (from four to eight pounds, according to the degree of strength and the quantity wanted) into thin slices ; score them roughly, and, placing a thick slice of lean undressed bacon in a thick-bottomed stew-pot, lay the cut-meat over it, with a few bits of butter, or a cup- ful of fresh gravy or water. Slice over this a carrot, a couple of onions, a little eschalot, a head of celery, and, if a high-flavoured gravy for ragouts be wanted, a couple of bay-leaves, and a bundle of savoury herbs of suitable size. Let the stew-pot be deep and very closely covered. Set it over a sharp fire to catch and brown, and shake it occa- sionally, to prevent the meat from sticking. When the meat is drained on both sides, and the juices partially drawn