141 SOUP Am STE¥, OE MOUTHFUL SOUPS. By the above names the reader is to understand all soups in which meat, fowl, or fish, cut in mouthfuls, is dressed and served. Such for example, are Mock-turtle Soup, Kidney, Ox-tail, Lobster-soup, Oyster-soup, etc. This is a division which -we think was wanted in books that treat of the culinary art. This important class, be it noticed, comprehends not only the Oriental Mullagatawny and the oleaginous Ox-rump, but even the spicy and luscious Turtle. [We give no receipt for dressing Turtle, an affair on which a volume might be written, so complicated and various are the processes. Rousseau tells of a German who composed a whole volume on the zest of a lemon. What then might not be said on that which comprehends all zests,—" The Sovereign of Savouriness," the Olio compounded " of every creature's best! " As none but thorough-bred men of science are ever intrusted with dressing a Turtle, the Cleikum Club did not presume to instruct them, and thought the receipts found in cookery books for this article merely so many make-bulks. Female cooks are excellent in their own way; but no woman ever yet succeeded in writing an Epic or dressing a Turtle.—P. T.] 82. MuUagatawny-Soup. Break and wash a knuckle of good veal, and put it to boil in nearly three quarts of water, with a quarter-ounce of white and Jamaica peppercorns. Place tinned skewers in the bottom of the stew-pan, to prevent the meat from sticking to it. Put also a few slices of streaky bacon, if the flavour is admired. Skim this stock carefully when it comes to boil, and let it simmer an hour and a half before straining it off. Cut three pounds of breast of veal into cubes of about an inch and fourth, and add trimmings, bones, and gristles of the breast, to the water in which the knuckle is put to boil. Fry the cubes of veal and six sliced onions in a stew-pan, of a delicate brown. Put the strained stock to them ; skim carefully, and when the soup and meat have simmered three quarters of an hour, rub two large spoonfuls of curry-powder, and the same quantity of lightly-browned flour or Glasgow brose-meal, to a smooth batter; add these to the soup, with salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon-juice, to taste, and simmer till the meat is quite tender.—Obs, This