512 CHAP. V. PASTRY AND CAKES, ETC. of butter, the same of sifted sugar and currants. Make this into a paste with two eggs, two spoonfuls of orange-flower- water, a glass of brandy, and one of sweet wine. Mix up quickly, and drop the batter through a biscuit-funnel on floured tins, and bake for five or six minutes. 1033. Rout-Cakes.—To the beat yolks of twelve eggs put a half-pound of butter beat to a cream, half a pound of sifted sugar, the fresh grate of a lemon, and twelve ounces of flour dried. Season this with a little orange-flower-water, or a few pounded almonds. When very well mixed, pour the cake into a papered mould. Let it be scarcely an inch thick; bake it, and when cool ice it, and cut it with a sharp knife and ruler into small squares, lozenges, diamonds, etc. Moisten the edges of these morsels with sugar, beat with white of egg, and crisp them before the fire. 1034. Common Buns,—Mix two pounds of flour and a half pound of sugar. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a glassful of thick yeast, and half a pint of warmed milk. Make a thin batter of the surrounding flour and the milk, and set the dish covered before the fire till the leaven begins to ferment. Put to the mass a half-pound of melted butter, and milk enough to make a soft paste of all the flour. Cover this with a dust of flour, and let it once more rise for half an hour. Shape the dough into buns, and lay them apart on buttered tin-plates in rows to rise for a half-hour. Then bake in a quick oven. 1035. Cross-Buns are made of the same sort of dough, with the addition of a little more sugar, and a seasoning of cinnamon, allspice, and mace. They must, when moulded, have the figure of the Cross impressed on them with a stamp; and have a few currants. 1036. Plum-Buns.—Mix with the dough of cross-buns, cleaned currants, strips of candied orange-peel, blanched almonds chopped, and a seasoning of cinnamon and mace. Mark them round the edge when moulded, and bake as common buns. 1037. A Scotch Christmas-Bun^ from Mrs Fraser^s Cookery.—Take four pounds of flour, keeping out a little to work it up with; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and break in sixteen ounces of butter; pour in a pint of warm water, and three gills of yeast, and work it up into a