461 MEAT-PUDDING ETC. with a little syrup flavoured witli vanilla; put to this a pint of syrup and one of cream with the yolks of twelve eggs. Thicken over the fire; pass through a tammy, and, when cold, freeze the mixture, to which add candied citron, stoned raisins, and cleaned currants, previously soaked in maras- chino, and also a glass of that liqueur. When freezed a little, fill a mould; set it in the ice-pot, and proceed as usual. Add sugar pounded, with vanilla, a plateful of whipt cream, three whipt whites of eggs, and freeze again.* The mould should be a pine-apple shape. The My Pudding."—Every lady has or should have a " My Pudding.'' This we leave to individual taste and invention. Meat-Puddings, Potato-Pasties, and Dumplings. These excellent every-day dishes we consider of far more importance than all the Galantines and Pieces Monies of the French kitchen. If they do not belong to the highest style of cookery, the combination of savouriness with economy adapts them to all tastes and classes. To commence, we give a general receipt for meat-puddings, which may easily be modified to suit every palate and purse. 875. Mump-Steak-Pudding. — Flatten steaks, cut much smaller and thinner than for broiling; season each with mixed seasonings, as pie-meat. Have an earthenware basin or mould, which line with thin suet-paste, or demi-pufF- paste, which shall overlap the ledge; lay in the meat, with a very little chopped onion or eschalot, if you like. When filled with steaks, put in a wineglassful of water, to which, if you have used no cayenne or onion, a teaspoonful of eschalot or cayenne vinegar may be added, and a little cat- sup. Turn up the overhanging paste; wet it, and lay on the cover, which should be of thicker paste than the lining. Tie up the plain mould or basin in a cloth, and place it standing in a pot of boiling water, as in boiling other pud- dings ; keep up the boil for at least three hours, adding boil- * Freezing-pots are made in England of various constructions; with handles and spaddles, which easily remove the parts which freeze upon the sides of the pot or mould, and these, making the entire mass congeal equally, entirely supersede the roclcing and shaking prescribed by M. Careme, and answer the purpose mUch better. For a very ingenious and useful freez- ing-apparatus, Mr Peter Gray of Edinburgh took out a patent.