580 CHAP. III.—CURING MEAT, ETC. 1193. Mutton^ either Ribs or Breast^ may be salted and served boiled with roots, making at the same time a good potato or pease soup, seasoned with parsley or celery. A boiled leg^ salted a week, is preferred, with carrot and turnip, to a fresh one, by many excellent judges. The Collier's Roast^ a favourite dish with many persons in Scotland, is a leg of mutton salted for a week, roasted and served with mashed turnip, or browned potatoes. 1194. To Cure Bacon in Flitches.—(See pages 574-76.) —When all the lard is removed, and the tail, ears, pettitoes, etc., taken away, rub the skin side of the meat long and briskly with warmed salt in abundant quantity. Rub about the shoulders and hams very well, as these are so thick. The pig should either still retain the animal heat, or hang a few days, to get tender. Turn the thoroughly-rubbed meat, and lay a thick bed of salt in which a small quantity of salt- petre is mixed, over the whole inside. Press this salt down close everywhere. Throw folds of blanketing over the meat, on a table or trough, placed aslant, and place a gentle weight over it. Let it lie a week, basting with the brine. Then rub afresh the outside stoutly and long, and with fresh salt cover the inside; let the meat lie thus for ten days, and then drain, roll in bran, or coarse barley-meal, and hang it up in the kitchen. When thoroughly dry, remove to a dry place to hang till wanted. It may be smoked, which improves all hams. 1195. Rapid Salting.—Lay a piece of meat rubbed well over with salt, over a vessel with water, on two or three twigs. Lay salt thickly over the meat. The evaporation of the water will melt the salt, and thus accelerate the salting of the beef. 1196. To Smoke Hams and Fish on the small scale.— Drive the end out of an old puncheon or large cask. Invert it over birch or juniper branches, or a heap of the sawdust of green hardwood (oak is best), in which sawdust a bar of red-hot iron is buried. Hang the tongues, hams, etc., on sticks across the cask, and cover it to confine the smoke, giving a very little air below, that the material may smoke and smoulder slowly, but not burn away fast. N.B.—Most neighbourhoods command a corn-kiln, in which hams may be smoked and dried tolerably well.