CHAP. V.—OrvNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. 496 the swelling fruit overcrowds the branches, it may be picked off for tarts and puddings, and preserved as above, first pricking with a needle, and then boiling in a syrup, of one pound of sugar to the quart of water, for seven or eight minutes. Soak for three days in this. Boil up again, and, when cold, bottle and treat as in last receipt. Eeceipts for Beautiful Preserves and Compotes for Desserts, etc., etc. 984. Jargonelle Pears.—Take large, finely-shaped pears, and pare them very smoothly though thinly. Simmer them in a thin syrup, and let them soak, covered in this syrup in a tureen or basin, for a day or two. See that they are covered with the syrup. Drain off the syrup, and put more sugar to it. Clarify it, and simmer the pears in it till they look transparent. Take them up, and pour the syrup over them. About a fourth more sugar than the weight of the fruit is the requisite quantity in all.—Ols. The syrup should be seasoned with the juice of lemons. The pears may either be served dry by drying them in the sun, or in a slow oven when wanted; or in the syrup, which is better and more economical, as the fruit that is not used can be potted up afresh. If the seeds of this and of all preserved fruits are picked out, which may be done by an opening at both ends that will allow an ivory bodkin to be introduced, they will keep better. Large, finely-shaped pears of any kind done in this way, and iced white, as directed No. 1006, look exceedingly well. Pears are preserved red, by putting pre- pared cochineal into the syrup, or pouring melted red goose- berry or currant jelly over them.—See French Compotes, Nos. 707 to 711. 985. Preserved Apples, or en Compote,—Clarify fine sugar, and boil nicely-pared and cored pippins in it, with a little lemon-juice and lemon-rind. Serve in a glass or china dish, with the syrup, and garnish with bunches of preserved bar- berries, or sprigs of myrtle.—See No. 941. 986. Red Apples, served in jelly, are made nearly as above. Pare and core the most beautiful pippins you can get, but leave an inch of the stalks. Throw them into a pan of water to keep the colour good; boil them in a very little water, with which cochineal is mixed. When done, dish