555 PREPARATIONS FOR INVALIDS. boil up quickly with a little salt, and take off the scum. Simmer gently for a half-hour, and let it settle; pour care- fully from the sediment, or strain it. Beef-tea is sometimes made by simple infusion, but this is a rather disgusting preparation to most people; and sometimes a steak is half- broiled and then cut down, and has boiling water poured over it, which is better. Veal or Chicken tea is made in the same way as beef-tea. Besides the above preparations, many receipts are scat- tered through this work for dishes proper for convalescents. Among these are barley-broth, and sheep's-head broth, if cleared of fat; broiled chickens, skinned; or fowl and chicken plain boiled, with rice; fresh rizzared haddock; chicken d la Paysanne^ which Careme upholds as the most wholesome dish that can be prepared. Sweetbreads, plainly dressed; and the various plain preparations of macaroni, vermicelli, semoulina, and rice ; all of these, well boiled, either with milk or broth. Broth, cooled and cleared of fat, but rich, and thickened with panada, is another excel- lent dish for those whose strength requires to be supported, but who must not use food too stimulating. Dr A. T. Thomson mentions tripe as particularly light or easy of digestion, when cooked till very tender; it makes, at least, a variety in the diet of convalescents. Arrow-root, simple blancmange, or pudding without eggs or with only one egg, is good in early convalescence; and apples, stewed with or without cooked rice. Boiled bread-pudding, with few eggs —one or two—is also good; and plain puddings of rice, or tapioca, seasoned with cinnamon or ginger, but with little egg or sugar. To Mould Meat-Cake, and Potted Meats for the Second Course, or for Collations and Suppers. 1133. Fill a handsome shape, round, if for a centre-dish, but if for a flank^ to which potted meat is more appropriate, with No. 455. Press the meat very close into the mould, when quite cold; if to keep long, pour over it a layer of cool melted butter. It will keep thus for days or weeks. When required, take off the cake of butter; wrap a napkin, dipped in boiling water, round the mould, and gently detach