567 COOKERY FOK THE POOR. There is not a family of any consideration but might distribute at least three or four gallons of soup a-week to their poor neighbours, with almost no additional expense, and only a little personal trouble to the cook or kitchen-maid. There is much waste in all families, which, by a slight degree of attention, might be avoided, and turned to good account, not only in supplying the wants of the poor, but in improving the domestic habits of young female servants, and qualify- ing them to be frugal managers when they come to be poor men's wives. Without wishing to encourage habits of dependence, much less pauperism, benevolent persons will find in all neighbourhoods old men and women, and orphan children, to whom the certainty that on even one day of the week they may look forward to a warm and com- fortable meal, will be no small blessing. Those benevolent indivi- duals who actively interest themselves in bettering the condition of the poor, seldom fail to enjoin them to go to church. Were this injunction coupled with a comfortable Sunday's dinner of warm stew- soup, to such as need this kindness, when church is over, the advice would not prove the less efficacious. For an expense of two shillings per week, any benevolent individual may dine ten old women or men every Sunday of the year, even allowing that none of the waste of his Idtchen were applied to this purpose, but that every article were purchased. In speaking of dishes for the poor, it is at once proper to say, that we have no idea of human life in grown persons being sustained in comfort and physical energy without a due proportion of animal food; nor do we conceive that, with any better diet than the miserable unchanging meal of the Irish and Highland peasantry, or the rice of the feebler tribes of India, there is any hearty food more really eco- nomical than cheap stew-soups of meat or fish, with a proper mixture of vegetables, roots, and farinaceous seeds. But this mode of cookery is not only the cheapest, it is also the most savoury in which plain food can be prepared. The worst feature in the domestic manage- ment of the poor—we speak not of drinking—is the universal and excessive use of tea; and this they must either swallow, a coarse, half-sweetened pernicious decoction, without the milk, butter, meat, which can alone render it a nourishing meal, or spend on it a share of their earnings, which must be subtracted from better purposes. The tea-pot drains the soup-pot; the price of the materials of an unsatisfy- ing breakfast would nearly purchase enough of meat, vegetables, and barley, or pulse, to make a hearty and comfortable family-dinner. Were soup or gruel substituted for tea, at least once a-day, and for those slops called British coffee, as is the practice with decent families on the Continent, and which till of late years was the custom of the Highlands of Scotland and Ireland, the change would be still better; as the meat, either cold or re- warmed in a little of the soup, would afterwards furnish dinner. The objection made to the old hearty breakfast of the Lowlands of Scotland, oatmeal-porridge, to the hurgou of the navy, the stir-about of Ireland, and hasty-pudding of the North of England, as heavy fare for females and sedentary mechanics, if it be just at all, could not be brought against a light soup, merely thickened with oatmeal, and eaten with bread. The increase of soup-shops, and even of places for the early sale of coffee and saloop,