466 CHAP. IV.—PASTRY, PIES, ETC. disli, with salt, a little melted butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Moisten and work up this with worts, or fresh yeasty beer, till it is of proper consistence. Have the whites of the eggs well whipt, and work them into the paste, which should be made hours before it is used. Water, brandy, or wine may be used instead of beer : milk is often used. Top- pot fat makes the best frying material for plain fritters, and next to it dripping, or the soft kidney-fat of beef. 883. Good plain Fritters,—Stir minced apples rolled in sugar with a little finely-shred suet into stiff pancake-batter or fritter-batter, as above described. Drop this in proper quantities (a large spoonful) into boiling dripping, and fry the fritters; or a few picked currants may be stirred into the batter, and dropped in spoonfuls into the boiling dripping. Dry and serve on a napkin^ with sugar grated over them. 884. Apple, Apricot, and Peach F7'itters.—Put a little ad- ditional flour to common pancake-batter. Peel, stone, and divide the peaches and apricots. Peel, slice, and core large apples; * dip them in this thick pancake-batter, or fry them in French batter^ Drain and dish them neatly above each other, and grate sugar over them: Or drop batter into the boiling fat in the fryingpan, then a slice of apple, and drop more batter over that, and stamp out with a small lid.— Obs. Fritters are made of many kinds of fruit, and other things, as shell-fish, forcemeat, cheese, and anything you please, from slices of pine-apple to slices of potatoes. The principle is the same throughout, if the batter is suited to what it encloses. For sweet fritters, it may be flavoured with nutmeg or cinnamon, and brandy; for Jish or meat have mixed fine or savoury herbs. Sweet fritters should have sugar sprinkled over, and may be glazed. Savoury fritters should be a pale brown. All should swim when in the fryingpan, and be dried before dishing. See Potato- fritters, No. 227, and Oyster-fritters^ No. 183. 884^. Indian-Meal Fritters, Dumplings, etc. Indian-Meal Fritters and Pancakes.—Beat four eggs very well, and mix with a pint of milk, into which stir gradually * French cooks steep rennets for fritters in brandy and cinnamon, or some liqueur, before dipping them in the batter. They make fritters of all sorts of fruits, first half-haJcing the cored apples or stoned apricots.