302 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES and place the baked heart above it, and lay slices of the remainder of the liver fried, round it, with fried parsley, or sippets ; or the heart, if large and fat, will of itself make a handsome dish if stuffed with a rich forcemeat, roasted with caul or paper over it, and served with venison-sauce or melted butter and catsup poured about it. The liver may be stuffed and roasted as above; but this we conceive one of the absurdities of cookery. The minced lights are also made into balls, or used for forcemeat to calf s head, etc. They should have a good deal of kidney or other fat, or of udder, and the usual veal seasonings of mace and lemon-peel. See Nos. 451, 452. 448. To Dress Veal-Sweetbreads,—Parboil them slightly. Divide and stew them in white gravy; thicken and season this with salt, mace, white pepper, and, when just ready, add a little hot cream; or, egg the parboiled sweetbreads, dip them in crumbs, chopped herbs and seasonings, and finish them in a Dutch oven, and serve with melted butter and catsup. 449. To Ragout Veal-Sweetbreads.—Cut them in mouth- fuls, wash and dry them in a cloth, brown them in fresh butter, and, pouring into the stewpan as much rich brown gravy as will just cover them, let them simmer gently, adding a seasoning of pepper, allspice, salt, and mushroom- catsup. Thicken the sauce, and, dishing the sweetbreads very hot, pour the sauce over them through a sieve.—See French Cookery^ No. 634. 450. To Dress Calves' Tails,—Clean, blanch, cut them at the joints, and brown them in butter, or soft kidney-fat. Drain, and stew them in good stock seasoned with parsley, onions, and a bay-leaf. Add green pease to the stew, if in season, or some small mushrooms. Skim and serve the ragout. Foreigners use garlic in this dish, and dredge it with grated Parmesan. 451. Calfs Heart,—Cut down in slices, and dress as a plain stew, and season with lemon-grate ; or stuff and roast, rolling in forcemeat as at No. 447. 452. Calfs Liver,—Cut a fat white liver into thin slices. Soak them in water. Dry and dust flour over these. Fry them for five minutes. Strew minced parsley and young