SALADS AND SALAD-SAUCE. 225 a very few days changes their quality, and they become woody and acrid; when not young, they ought to be scraped. Cress and mustard are cordial and grateful, and of an agree- able pungency ; and celery^ when young and properly blanched, by its peculiar nutty flavour, contributes much to what Evelyn calls Harmony in the composure of a sallet." A variety of other herbs mingle in full, well-selected salads, such as sorrel, young onions, cucumbers, tomatas, radish leaflets, and baked beetroot. Several wild herbs, as dan- delion, were formerly employed, and are still used on the Continent and in America, as saladings. As this is quite a delicate, jaunty branch of the culinary art, we would recommend that young ladies residing in the country should gather their own salad-herbs, and dress salads for their families, which will give a better chance of a duty being well done, which, in the hurry of the stew-pan, the spit, and the stove, the distracted cook must often perform with haste and slovenliness. Never dress a salad till near the dinner-hour, as it will flatten and lose, besides freshness, its light appearance by standing. Foreigners call many things salads which we would merely reckon cold, little, dressed dishes. A salad of cold dressed meat, game, or poultry, is a frequent continental summer dinner; and, as this may produce confusion of ideas in the young housekeeper, we notice it here. Our ancestors had the same notion of what sallets were that the French still retain, and which French cooks have again brought into use among us. There are also sweet dishes, having the name of salads, made of different kinds of fruit, and served in the dessert. 233. An English Summer Salad and Salad-Sauce,—Let the salad-herbs be freshly gathered, nicely picked and trimmed, and repeatedly washed in salt and water. Drain and cut them neatly with a silver knife. Salad-sauce.— Just before dinner is served, rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs very smooth on a soup-plate, with a little rich cream. When well mixed, add a teaspoonful of made-mustard and a little salt, a spoonful of olive-oil (one of oiled butter, or two of sourish cream may be substituted), and when this is mixed smooth, put in as much plain eschalot, cucumber, tarragon, or Chili vinegar as will give the proper degree of acidity to the sauce,—about two large spoonfuls; add a little K 2