CHAP. II. FRENCH COOKERY. 352 have, the white part of two carrots, and a bunch of young onions. When you have got all the juices out of this, and it is just ready to catchy moisten it with consomme and season with a small fagot of sweet herbs. When all the strength is got from the meat, let the gravy settle, skim it, strain it, and reduce by quick boiling till it is nearly a jelly. Meanwhile mix three spoonfuls of rice-flour with three half- pints of cream ; and when this boils, pour it to your sauce, and boil till the veloute is of a proper consistence and very smooth. Work it well, continually lifting it high by spoon- fuls and letting it fall, and do this till it is cold, to prevent a skin from gathering on it. It will take probably more flour; and butter may be substituted for part of the cream. It should be smooth as velvet, as its name imports. 587. Sauce d la Bechamel.—Take as much veloute as you choose, and moisten it with hlonde de veau. Mix with this a pint of boiling cream, or what quantity you wish; flavour with seasonings suited to the dish you intend to sauce. See No. 279. 588. Brown Italian-Sauce, or Italienne Rousse, a favourite French Sauce.—Take two spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, one of parsley, half a one of eschalot, half a bay-leaf, pepper and salt to taste. Moisten with Espagnole, No. 585, and stew the vegetables. Add more pepper, if necessary, and the quantity of consomme required to bring the sauce to the proper thinness. Strain it. 589. Italian White-Sauce, or Italienne Blanche. — Use veloute instead of Espagnole. This is all the difference between the white and brown Italian-Sauce. 590. Sauce d la Maitre Hotel.—Melt a quarter-pound of butter, and thicken it with flour; add in the stewpan a little scalded and finely-minced parsley, salt, pepper, and afterwards a squeeze of lemon. Work it well with a wooden spoon to make it smooth. It should not be made till wanted. Another and better Maitre d^Hotel Sauce.—To two glass- fuls of Bechamel, put one of white-stock. Boil this up, and stir in three ounces of Maitre d^Hotel butter; when the butter is melted, it is ready. 590^. Maitre d^Hotel Butter.—Mix four ounces of butter.