PREPARATIONS FOR INVALIDS. 553 1124. A Simple Curry-Powder.— One teaspoonful of pow- dered white ginger, two of coriander-seeds. Half a one of turmeric, a quarter one of cayenne; acid to be added at pleasure to the curry when nearly ready.— See No. 758. 1125. Vegetable Marrow or Gourds,—Parboil the fruit. Take it up; and, when cool enough to handle, cut out a longitudinal piece reaching to the heart of it; and, draining out the moisture from the fruit, replace the piece cut out, and fasten it with thread. Boil in water with salt, till on probing it is found that the marrow is thoroughly done. It may be either served whole or divided, on a toast, with melted butter poured over; or mashed with cream and butter; or treated as at Nos. 203 and 204. 1126. Meat Cuhhuhed or Kebohhed^—a good dinner for an Invalid.— Cut veal, beef, or mutton, lean but juicy, into small bits. Beat them slightly; run them on wire skewers, and fasten these to the small whirling wire-jack. Baste well with the dropt gravy, using a little butter at first; dust with salt when ready, add pepper or curry-powder at dis- cretion. Serve either with grilled toasts or boiled dry rice. N.B.—A chicken or rabbit may be skinned, quartered, and done as above. What is called cuhhuhed curry is made as any other curry, but half of the meat is pork, fresh or pickled, with more garlic and turmeric than are usually employed in our cookery. Fresh pork in any form of fry or curry is not relished in this country, and is seldom seen, save, perhaps, of necessity, on board of ship. If for a land- ward dinner, we would recommend a large allowance of acid with pork curry. It seems an absurdity to curry the flesh of an animal the Hindoos abhor. 1127. Gloucester Jelly for Invalids.—This is made of equal parts of rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn-shavings, and eringo-root; four ounces of the ingredients to nearly two quarts of water. Simmer slowly for an hour, and strain it. The jelly may be dissolved at pleasure in milk, wine, soup, etc., and is reckoned nourishing and light.—Ohs. This is sometimes called Dr JehVs Restorative Jelly. It makes a good breakfast for invalids, when warmed in milk and sweetened. 1128. Dr Hunter^s Dinner for a delicate Person.—" Cut a piece of veal into slices, beat, and put these into an earthen- 2 A