PIGEONS AND LARKS. 103 noblemen and gentlemen had large bets. What cook can fail to envy the Chef of the Keform Club, when he is able to say, " My first course, being full of novelty, gained the approbation of the whole party;" but the salade created such an unexpected effect, that in brief the inventor was invited to the honour of the sitting, and over several rosacles of exquisite Lafitte, it was christened by General Sir Alexander Duff, who presided over the noble party, "Salade de Grouse k la Soyer!" These are moments which occur but once in a man's life. This was M. Soyer's Waterloo^ or Trafalgar ; his Bridge of Lodi; his Austerlitz! 33. To Eoast Pigeons. Let them be cropped and drawn as soon as killed, and wiped inside as well as possible. They will be ready for tlie spit in from six to forty-eight hours, according to age and the weather ; and are in high season from June to No- vember. If kept long, they lose their flavour. When to be dressed, they must (when drawn), be well washed in several waters; and great care must be taken (as in all birds) not to break the intestines in drawing them. Stuff with parsley parboiled and chopped, though parsley is get- ting out of use, and about the size of a nutmeg of butter for each bird, with a few bread-crumbs, and the liver chopped, if it is liked. Season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Twenty to twenty-five minutes will roast them. Dust with flour, and froth (if you like frothing) with fresh butter. Parsley and butter, or plain melted butter, is served in the dish, and is more suitable for mild-flavoured birds than meat-gravy.—Bread-sauce^ Orange Gravy-sauce^ or Rice-sauce.—Serve with dressed French beans, asparagus, or cucumber; or on water-cresses. Garnish with fried bread-crumbs, or slices of bitter orange. 34. To Roast Larks and Wheatears. When well cleaned, dip them in beat yolk of egg, and roll them in bread crumbs. Put a small bit of butter in each bird. Spit on a lark-spit, and fasten that to the spit, or hook to your bottle-jack. Baste with plenty of good butter, which is most essential in roasting all the smaller birds. Strew sifted bread-crumbs over the birds as they roast. From twelve to fifteen minutes will do them. Serve fried bread-crumbs, and garnish with fried crumbs or crisp parsley.—Ohs, Some good cooks put a thin small slice of bacon between the birds when they are spitted, to nourish them. This is good practice.