VEAL OLIVE PIE CALEBS HEAD AND FOOT PIES. 427 minced veal and a little suet or veal-kidney, a few bread- crumbs, some finely-chopped parsley, lemon-grate, salt, and mixed spices. Work up the forcemeat with the yolks of two eggs, and place a little of it in the middle of each slice of the meat cut for olives, having the olives previously flat- tened and seasoned. Roll them neatly up, and fill up the pie-dish. Make a dozen or more small forcemeat-balls, round and oval, of the remaining forcemeat, and lay them in the dish, with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs divided; two small pickled cucumbers cut in round and oblong slices, and a few pickled mushrooms. Make a gravy of the bones and trimmings of veal, seasoning it with parsley and onion. Thicken and strain this gravy, and put to it a glass of white wine and the juice of a lemon. Pour this into the pie, and cover it with a good puff-paste. 786. Calf s-Head Pie^ to eat Cold.—Scald and soak the head, and simmer it for a half-hour in a very little water, with a large knuckle of veal, the rind of a lemon, two onions, a fagot of parsley and winter savory, a dozen white pepper- corns, and two or three blades of mace. Take up the head, and, when cold, cut it into bits of different forms, as directed at No. 460. Peel and cut the tongue into square half-inch cubes. Boil the broth in which the head was simmered with a few chips of isinglass till it is reduced to a strong jelly-gravy. Put a layer of thin slices of lean ham in the bottom of the pie-dish; then some of the head and tongue, mixing fat and lean, and forcemeat-balls made of the knuckle; add hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut in two. Strew above each separate layer a seasoning of white pepper, salt, nut- meg, and lemon-grate. Fill up the dish with the strained jelly-gravy; cover with puff-paste; ornament and bake the pie.—Obs. This pie will keep cold for a fortnight, and slices of it, garnished, make a nice supper-dish, from the variety of colours and forms. 787. Calf s-Foot Fie,—Clean and boil two or more feet till tender, but not slobbery. Mince the meat, when cold, with suet and pared apples, in the proportion of a third-part apples and suet. Mix a few cleaned currants, sugar to taste, and a quarter-pint of white or raisin-wine with the mince. Cover the dish with rich puff-paste. A half-hour or little more will bake this delicate Scottish pi