CHAP. III. ROASTING. 90 proper care, and by observing the precautions recommended for preserving mutton. When to be used, clean it without much wetting, with a sponge dipped in lukewarm water. Unless venison is fat it is useless to roast it: and in roasting, the main object is to preserve the fat. For this purpose, butter or rub over with salad-oil a large sheet of writing paper, tie it over the fat, and butter it on the outside once more. Have ready rolled a paste of flour and water, to the thickness of a half inch, on another sheet of paper, and with this cover the first paper. Tie the whole firmly on, and pour plenty of melted butter over the outside paper, to pre- vent it from catching to the fire. Baste constantly, and keep up the fire, which must be a strong, solid sirloin fire, to penetrate through the incasements, and roast the haunch. Venison is rather preferred underdone than overdone, a little red but not blue. A large haunch may be allowed from five to seven hours, when wrapped in paste. A half hour before it is ready it must be carefully unswaddledj placed near the fire, basted with fresh butter, and lightly dredged with flour, to brown and froth. For sauce,—Cur- rant-jelly melted in port wine, or jelly in a sauce-tureen, or roughed in a sweetmeat-glass, is still usually served.—Obs. A glass or two of claret, with three times that quantity of gravy made of venison or mutton, and a small glassful of raspberry vinegar, all very hot, was the sharp sauce most relished by our Club ; or a plain sharp sauce made of white- wine vinegar or lemon-juice and the finest lump-sugar, heated together in a stone jar. This is the best mode of roasting venison where expense is not grudged. In ordinary cases the paste may be dis- pensed with, — a double paper will be suflicient. The shoulder, breast, and neck, are each roasted; but the latter is much better dressed as a pasty or as soup.—See Venison Pies, At small, genuine gourmand parties, as the venison fat freezes, it is not unusual to cut off small slices of fat and lean, and heat them in a silver dish over a spirit-lamp. Venison is thus kept warm in perfection. And where luxury or joint-stock Gourmand Clubs afford silver dishes, these, besides retaining their heat long when once thor- oughly heated, are placed on the table on concealed heaters filled with hot sand, and thus keep any dish hot.