CHAP. I. MADE-DISHES above ; or, as another variety, stuffed with forcemeat instead of being larded. Braising is, in fact, just slow stew-haking in fat, rich, compound juices, with high seasonings. 442. A Granada [properly Grenadin) of Veal^—a natu- ralized French Dish.—Line a small oval dish with a veal- caul, leaving part hanging over the ledges of the dish. In this place slices of good bacon, then a layer of veal, force- meat, Nos. 8, 693, next veal-collops well seasoned, and so on alternately till the dish is filled. Tuck the caul over the whole, tie paper over the dish, and bake the Granada. Turn it out of the dish, and serve with clear brown-gravy. —Ohs, Mushrooms, herbs, etc., may be added at discretion to this savoury dish. See No. 629. 443. To Dress Veal d la Daube.—Trim off the edge-bone of a good loin of veal, and cut off the chump.* Raise the skin, season the meat, and fill the cavity with the forcemeat of No. 8 ; bind up the loin with fillets of linen, but first cover it with slices of bacon; place it in a stewpan, with the bones and trimmings, and veal-stock, if you have it, or water, a chopped calf's foot, or jelly of cow-heels. Put in a fagot of herbs, mace, white pepper, and two anchovies. Cover the lid of the pan with a cloth, and force it down very close, placing a weight over it. Simmer slowly for two hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. By this time the gravy will be reduced to a glaze. Take out the bacon and herbs, and glaze the veal. Serve with sorrel or tomata- sauce; or with mushrooms, which are generally a suitable accompaniment to made-dishes of veal or poultry. 444. An English Haricot of Veal. — Shorten the bones of the best end of a neck or back-ribs. Either leave the meat whole or cut it into chops. Brown it of a fine colour. Stew it in good brown-gravy; and, when nearly ready, add a pint of young pease, a large cucumber pared and sliced, and a well-blanched lettuce quartered, with pepper, salt, a point of cayenne, and what will cover the vegetables of boiling stock. Dish the veal in the middle of the soup-dish, pour the stew-sauce over it, and garnish with the lettuce and, if you like, a few forcemeat-balls. * The chump or tail-end makes a good family-dish, stewed in stock, with roots, spices, herbs, and a slice of bacon. Serve with its own thick- ened gravy, and the roots that are gtewed with it, but take out the bacon.