425 SAVOURY PIES. tincturing it with rose or orange-flower water,—a little almond paste will enrich it. It may, where suitable, be flavoured with lemon-juice. In this department, like every other, much is left to the taste and discretion of the cook. 777. Venison-Pasty Crust.—Make a paste in the propor- tion of two pounds of flour to twenty ounces of butter, with six beat eggs and hot water. Roll it out three times, double it, and the last time let the part intended for the top-crust remain pretty thick. This paste is well adapted to line timbales. 778. Rice-paste for Savoury Pies.—Clean and simmer the rice in milk and water till it swell. Cover veal, lamb, chicken, or game pies, equally with a layer of this, using beat egg to make it adhere, and to glaze it. 779. Fine Crust for Cheesecakes^ or delicate preserved Fruits.—Sift a pound of the best flour, well dried, and mix it well with two ounces of finely sifted sugar. Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream by working it cold with a spoon or knife. Mix the flour and sugar very gradually with this, and work into it the well-beat whites of three eggs. If the paste is not stiff" enough to roll out, put more flour and sugar to it.—See Paste-royal^ Puff-paste^ Brioche Paste, and Household Bread, Savoury Pies of Meat, etc. 780. To make a Beef-Steak Pie.—Any tender and well mixed piece of beef will answer for a pie, though the heuck- bone or rump is best. Cut three or four pounds into small steaks; flatten and season highly with mixed spices; place fat and lean pieces together, and either roll them up as olives, or place them neatly in the dish, rising as all pies should do in the middle. Put in either a half-pint of gravy or the same quantity of water. Some like a few small half-cooked onions.—05s. Cutpickles, a little catsup, or other seasonings, may be put to the pie, and either forcemeat-balls or a layer of forcemeat above and below the beef. Some prefer a few oysters. Make a paste of one and a half pound of flour, and one pound of butter, or use No. 774. Lay a strip of crust round the edge of the dish, and then cover and ornament it. A Tripe Pie is sometimes made, laying ham or beef-steaks in the bottom of the dish, and filling it up with tripe pre-