215 SORREL.—MUSHROOMS. 212. To Stew Sorrel for Hoasts of Veal, Lamb, Fricandeaux, etc. Wash and simmer sorrel in an unglazed earthen or stone jar, very slowly, and beat up with a good piece of butter, or a little salad-oil. Add cayenne, pepper, and salt. A mixture of spinage and sorrel is dressed as spinage, where sorrel alone might be thought too acid. The French cook it in jelly gravy, thicken with beat eggs, and serve with poached eggs. 213. Mushrooms. So many fatal accidents happen every season from the use of poisonous mushrooms, and it is so difficult to distinguish between the edible kinds and those that are deleterious, that we would advise our readers either to eat none that they have not examined for themselves, or to be contented with what are raised in artificial beds, though the flavour of these is as inferior to that o£* the wild mushrooms as a coop-fed chicken is to the heath-cock.* The small cultivated buttons are, however, excellent for pickling. * Naturalists enumerate nearly five hundred kinds of mushrooms found in England alone, and of these there are perhaps not ten sorts ascertained to be fit for human food. Mushrooms, with coarse bread, form the chief sustenance of the inhabitants of several of the Russian provinces, during a considerable part of the year. They are indeed freely eaten everywhere on the Continent, where their properties seem to be better understood than in England. In Eussia they are salted, dried, or dressed fresh, and eaten with olive-oil by the better orders, while the poorer classes use hemp-oil. They are also broiled, roasted in the ashes, stewed and fried, served with meat, chopped with potatoes, turnips, carrots, etc., and form a relishing ingredient in ragouts and sauces. The following is a tolerably accurate description of the wholesome, or, we should rather say, the unsuspected sorts; for, notwithstanding this extensive Russian practice, we question whether mushrooms in substance are over salubrious. " The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white; as the size increases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur, of a very fine salmon colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom is a tolerable size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to ; and likewise, whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those which have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell, but not so strong as the right sort." The most delicate mushrooms are those found on old close-cropt pastures, or open downs by the seashore, where cattle browse. Mushrooms of good quality are plentiful in Ireland. It is of that country Bacon said long ago, " Ireland is the soil where mush- rooms and upstart weeds spring up in a night and do chiefly prosper." Picking this delicate and singular food forms an agreeable rustic amuse- ment ; and the ladies or idle gentlemen of any family may easily in their walks gather edible mushrooms for pickling, catsup, powder, and for dress-