564 CHAP. II. MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. out. The hot vegetables are also applied in substance in the folds of a cloth; but this is more of the nature of a poultice than a fomentation. 1153. The proper Medium of Temperature of Baths^ e^c.—The tepid from 86° to 97° the Hot Bath from 97° to 108°, the Vapour Bath from 100° to 180°; Sick Rooms 60°. 1153^. Freezing Mixtures where Ice cannot he got.—Take of sal-ammoniac five parts, of nitre five, and water sixteen. Another: Sal-ammoniac five parts, nitre five, glauber salts eight, water sixteen. Place the vessel containing the water, bottle of wine, or cream, butter, whatever is to be cooled, in another containing the freezing mixture, which should be covered with thick flannel or straw matting. 1154. Substitute for a Water filter.—Lay a thick bed of pounded charcoal at the bottom of a large common earthen flower-pot, over this lay a bed of fine sand about four inches thick. Make all compact, and suspend the pot over a re- ceiving vessel. A bit of quicklime thrown into a water- puncheon will be useful in purifying water. Water, if muddy, may be strained through a common sieve, in which a cloth and sponge, or layer of fine sand or charcoal is placed. Preparations for the Toilet, etc. 1155. Pot Pourri.—Put into a large china jar, used for this purpose, damask and other single roses, buds, and blown flowers, as many as you can collect; add to every peck of these a large handful of jasmine-blossoms, one of dame vio- lets, one of orange-flowers 5 orris-root sliced, an ounce; benjamin and storax, each an ounce (many dislike these) ; two or three handfuls of clove-gillyflowers, red pinks and plenty lavender flowers, cloves, nutmegs, rosemary-flowers, allspice, knotted marjoram, lemon-thyme, rind of lemon, balm of Gilead dry, and a few laurel-leaves. Chop these together, and mix them well with bay-salt. Cover the jar; stir occasionally. The various ingredients may be collected in succession as they flower. To the above are added wood- roof, jonquil-flowers, citron, and many other things. 1156. Eau de Cologne.—Take the essence of Bergamot, lemon-peel, lavender, and orange-flowers, of each an ounce, essence of cinnamon half an ounce, spirit of rosemary, and of