343 CASSEROLES CROUSTADES. sippet into the beaten paste, and stick it on the dish ; in this manner continue till the border is finished. Care must be taken not to heat the dish too much, or the sippet will not adhere. 577. Rice-Casserole^ in the French Style,—Anglo-French cooks often serve several dishes for which with us paste is used in a crust made of boiled rice, en casserole. There are sweet and also savoury casseroles, and the rice must be seasoned accordingly. Cold as well as re-dressed things may be thus served. Fowls, chicken, lamb's and sheep's trotters, veal and lamb rumps, palates, fillets of turbot, soles, etc., all previously cooked, may be served en casserole^ which is a handsome and not expensive mode. Boil slowly one or two pounds of rice, as you require. Put to it, when quite soft and dry, some consomme^ if wanted for a savoury dish, and (at first) two onions and salt. Water, about a quart to the pound of rice. When you feel it quite soft, let it cool, and then work it well with a wooden spoon into a paste. Cover the bottom of a baking-tin with this paste, laid four inches high by seven wide for an ordinary casserole. Make the outside very smooth; carve it in bold relief; and mark on the top a cover, about four inches in diameter. Make round this cover a pretty deep incision; pour clarified butter over the whole, and bake it on a trivet about an hour, or till it become a fine amber. Take off the cover, now become an upper crust; scoop out the pulp below, leaving the bottom thin; fill the hollow or centre of the casserole with your pre- pared ragout, of whatever kind. Pour in a little of some appropriate sauce ; put on the cover, and before serving glaze the prominent parts of the ornamental design. ^ Casseroles are easier made in moulds. 578. An English-Casserole^ or rice-border for made-dishes, is thus prepared:— Soak and stew the rice with salt and a blade of mace. If wanted rich, put butter and the beat yolks of eggs to it when ready. Place it neatly on the dish as an edging three inches high; glaze with egg, and set in the oven to colour before heaping the curry, hash, pillau, or whatever the dish is^ in the middle of it. 579. Croustades^ or Bread prepared in which to serve Ragouts^ etc.—Loaves are baked for croustades in egg or heart-shaped moulds about from six to eight inches long.