LIQUEURS, CORDIALS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 531 make a pleasant and refreshing draught. Lemonade may also be made extempore with the concrete of lemon-acid and syrup. No home-made Lemonades can compare with those aerated by the chemists, when of good materials. 1091. Capillaire.—Beat up six eggs and their shells with sixteen pounds of loaf-sugar; put to this three quarts of water; beat the whole mass, and boil it, and skim well. Perfume with orange-flower-water, or Eau de milles fleurs. —Ohs. This imitation answers well for sweetening liqueurs, or, wdth a little lemon-juice and water, makes a pleasant summer-draught. 1092. Another way.—Infuse what quantity of American capillaire is wanted in boiling water; sweeten with clarified syrup; strain ; flavour if you choose, and bottle. N.B.—Very little of the fern of which the capillaire is made, is obtained genuine. 1093. Bitters., a Tonic,—Take of juniper-berries two ounces, of gentian-root one ounce and a half, of coriander- seeds a quarter of an ounce, of orange-peel a quarter of an ounce, of calamus-aromaticus a quarter of an ounce, of snake- root a drachm, and of cardamom-seeds a half-drachm. Cut the gentian-root into small pieces, pound the other ingredients in a mortar, and put the whole into a large bottle or jar, with five bottles of the best malt-whisky of the strength of glass- proof, or ] 5 per cent, below hydrometer-proof. Shake the bottle a little when the ingredients are first put in, but not afterwards. Let it macerate for twelve days, carefully corked, and then strain it off, and bottle it for use.—Ohs. Gin or brandy may be substituted for whisky: whatever spirit is used, must be reduced to the strength of glass-proof. Sherry wine may be substituted for spirits.—See Nos. 1060, 1076. 1094. Aromatic Tincture.—Take an ounce of bruised cin- namon, and an ounce of the seeds of the lesser cardamom ; take also an ounce of bruised white ginger, two drachms of long pepper, and a quart of spirits. Infuse this for a fort- night, keeping it in a warm place, and strain for use. Two or three teaspoonfuls may be taken in a little capillaire, or eau Sucre, or in wine with a little water or without. This tincture is cordial; and, in cases of indigestion and languor, is considered restorative.