412 CHAP. III.—SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. 752. A Pillau.—Stew some rice in stock, or with butter, and season it with white pepper, mace, cayenne, and cloves. Place two small boiled fowls, or a few dressed veal or mut- ton cutlets, in the centre of a large dish, in which a layer of rice is laid, and lay some slices of broiled bacon around them. Cover with boiled rice; smooth and glaze the rice with egg, and set the dish before the fire or in the oven, to brown. Garnish with divided yolks of hard-boiled eggs and fried onions, or use forcemeat-balls.—Ohs, This is no bad dish, whatever country owns it. A more Oriental com- plexion may be given to the dish by frying the rice in but- ter, stirring it with a fork till of a light brown, and then stewing it in stock till soft.*—See No. 755. 753. Pillau of Veal.—Half-roast a small breast of veal, and cut it into neat pieces. Season these highly, and stew them in rich gravy. Raise a casserole of rice round a dish, and lay rice below, and the meat in the centre. Cover with more rice, and set the dish in the oven for a short time, having first glazed it with eggs.—Ohs. Curry-powder may with advantage be used for this pillau ; and it may be made of cold veal. Pillau is also haked^ with a mixture of bacon, chicken, and onions, in layers. A fowl, capon, or small tur- key, trussed as for boiling, makes a handsome pillau dressed as in this receipt; but cover the breast with bacon, which remove before dishing. Rabbits, or a hind-quarter of lamb, make a nice pillau. Braise the leg, fry the loin in steaks, and treat it as above. 754. An Olio.—Boil in a close-covered pot, a fowl, a couple of partridges, a piece of a leg of mutton, a knuckle of veal, and a few rump-steaks; also a piece of good streaked bacon or ham. Brown the meat first; add boiling water; and when it has boiled an hour, add parsley, celery, young onions, pease, carrot, turnip, and a bit of garlic, if it is liked, with salt and mixed spices. Serve the whole together, first picking out the bacon. Savoury herbs may also be used.— See Pepper-pot^ No. 93. An olio is properly a Spanish dish; but Spain as a nation is not eminent in cookery, though the olio^ and a few more of its omne-gatherum stews of meat, pulse, and roots, are worthy of attention. In " Murray's * This is the same dish known in French cookery as Capons a la Turque^ except that the bodies of the fowls are then stuffed with the boiled rice.