124 CHAP. VI. BROTHS, SOUPS, AND GRAVIES. IV. A sufficient quantity of common salt to facilitate the separation of tlie blood and slime that coagulate under the form of scum. V. In the early stage of the process such a degree of heat as will throw off the whole scum. VI. Afterwards a lower, but an equal temperature, that the soup may simmer gently till the substances employed, whether nutritive, colouring, or flavouring, are per- fectly combined with the water, according, to their several degrees of solubility. Besides observing these rules, use the softest water, and let the cook read the observations prefixed to the Chapter on Boiling, and attend to the following hints:—Some soups are very good when made the day before they are to be eaten, as the top-fat can be removed in a cake, and they can be cleared more effectually, and also attain more complete consistence, where a thick body is required [Scottice, lithi- ness), without losing their flavour; but they need not be seasoned till wanted, and should then be slowly heated to the boiling point. If permitted to boil, most re-warmed soups will lose part of their flavour; and in stew-soups the meat will harden. Excellent judges differ on this point. Many think every hot preparation best when fresh-cooked, —and soups of the number. Of the kinds that will keep, and that may be prepared beforehand, are brown-soup, hare-soup, soup of game of any kind, giblet-soup, and generally all soups made of the meat of animals of mature growth. Soups into which vegetables and young meats enter in any quantity, are best when fresh-made, as these things have a tendency to ferment. This holds especially of veal and fish soups. This tendency may be partly checked by boiling them up, and changing the vessels. In re-warm- ing all previously-made soups, broths, sauces, and gravies, if they cannot be heated by steam, or l3y the vessel contain- ing them being completely plunged into a stew-pan of boil- ing water, or a hain marie, particular care must be taken that they are not smoked. The fire must be clear, and the lids close ; for things re-warmed are more liable to be smoked than during their first preparation. Soups and gravies are best kept in earthen or stone ware vessels. They must not be covered till quite cold; and when cold and covered,