245 BECHAMEL AND OTHER SAUCES. 279. Bechamel^ or French White Sauce.—Cut two pounds of the lean of a breast or knuckle of white veal, and a quarter-pound of lean fresh bacon, into small bits. Melt some butter in a deep saucepan, and put in the meat to draw a little, and to whiten^ not to hrown. Mix two spoonfuls of fine rice-flour very smooth with pure water, and then put in a quart of clear stock made of veal, or as much water or milk. Let this stew very gently with the meat, over a chafing-dish, or by the side of the fire, for an hour and a half; having first seasoned it with a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, an onion, a few sprigs of parsley and lemon- thyme, and a bit of lemon-peel. Let the sauce settle, strain it, and stir in a cupful of rich hot cream. Bring it to boil, and strain it once more.—A cheaper white sauce^ to pour over boiled fowls, may be made of pale stock and sweet milk, thickened and seasoned as above, and the yolk of an egg well beat and stirred gradually into it when just ready. A few chopped mushrooms will improve this sauce, if for fowls. The Bechamel^ before the cream is added, is a white cuUis, fit for adding to white ragouts, fricassees, and hashes of veal. It is also a rich basis for all savoury white sauces, and for dressed vegetables.—See Dishes d la Bechamel^ French Cookery^ No. 669. 280. Vinegarette for Cold Meat or Fowl.—Chop young mint, parsley, and eschalot together, add salt, and mix them up with salad-oil, and good vinegar. 28L Tartar-Sauce.—Add to vinegarette. No. 280, chopped chervil and tarragon, with a little made-mustard. 282. Lemon-Sauce.—Pare a lemon, taking off all the white part; cut it in half-inch slices, pick out the seeds, and on a plate cut the slices into dice, and mix them with melted butter, taking care to stir it up lest it oil. 283. Miser^s-Sauce.— Chop two onions, and mix them with pepper, salt, vinegar, and a little melted butter. When made with oil and young onions, add a little minced parsley and scraped horseradish. 284. Poor Man's Sauce, to serve with Turkey Poults or grilled Birds,—a French Sauce.— Mince a little parsley and a few eschalots. Stew this in stock or water, and add vinegar and pepper.