MINCED COLLOPS AND BEEF-GOBBETS. 403 mutton knuckles, or trimmings of fowls, or butter. Strain this into a nice saucepan, and put two fine white chickens, or young fowl or two, cut down as for curry, into it. Season with salt, white pepper, a blade of mace, and shred parsley. Thicken gradually when the soup is finished, with the beat yolks of two or three eggs and a glass of cream, and take great care that they do not curdle. Serve with the carved chicken in the soup.—Ohs. The stock may be simply made of butter, and the meat may be lightly browned in the fry- ingpan and drained before it is put to the soup. Eabbits make this very well. Some like the egg curdled, and egg in great quantity, making the dish a sort of thin ragout of eggs and chicken. 734. Scottish Minced Collops and Beef-Gohhets.—Mince very fine a fleshy piece of tender beef, laying aside skins and gristles, and season it with salt and mixed spices. Mix up the collops thoroughly with a little water or stock; and, having browned some butter in a saucepan, put them to it, and mash them well with a wooden spoon, till they are nearly ready, to keep them from running into lumps. Put more gravy to them, or a little broth made of the skins and gristles. Cook for twelve minutes.—Ohs. Minced collops of beef may be dressed like Dr Hunter's dinner for an invalid, No. 1248, and will be as light. Shred onions are relished by some persons, and a little made-mustard; pickles* or vinegars, plain or flavoured, are also used. Minced collops will keep some time, if packed in a can and covered like potted meats. Some cooks scrape the meat, or beat it, instead of mincing it: with herbs, chopped eggs, suet, and seasonings, it is then a good forcemeat. Some add a little shred suet to the mince. Beef may be cut into gohhets^ the size of a pigeon's egg, and dressed as above, with a little of any nice gravy seasoned, and covered with bread-crumbs, browned with a salamander, and served as a small made- dish. Veal may also be dressed in gobbets in the same manner, and both make an inexpensive variety. There are several varieties of the above useful National dish, but none so good as the freshly prepared simple Minced Collops, As * Though in all Scottish cookery-books pickles are ordered to be mixed with minced collops and other ragouts, the St Eonan's Club refuse their sanction to the semi-barbarous practice of mingling crude vegetables with fresh-dressed meat. Hashes may require piquancy.—P. T.