TEA-CAKES. 511 the Highlands, and in country situations, for breakfast or tea. To a pound of flour allow from two to four ounces of butter, as much hot milk as will make a dough of the flour, and two beat eggs, if the cakes are wished to rise. Handle quickly, and lightly roll out and stamp of any size wanted, with a basin, saucer, or tumbler. Bake on the girdle^ or in a thick-bottomed fryingpan. They must be served hot, kept in a heap, well buttered, and used newly baked, as they soon become tough. For richer scones cream only is used. 1027^. Johnny Calces of Indian Meal.—Put a little salt to a quart of Indian meal. Make a hole in the middle of the heap, and mix in warm water, as in making any other dough, till it is a firm, but not hard dough. Knead it well, and roll out an inch thick, or rather less. Have the girdle hot over a clear, sharp fire, and rub it with a bit of butter. Lay on the cake, and when one side is done, turn it with a slice and toast the other; handling carefully,• as it easily breaks. Cut it in slices and serve hot, or split and butter them while hot, and serve. This is the most popular of the American cakes. See Nos. 229, 230. 1028. Queen^s Calces.—Make as pound-cake or plum- cake ; but bake in small saucers, but better in the fluted tins made for the purpose. 1029. Cinnamon-CaJces.—Whisk six eggs with a glass of rose-water; add a pound of sifted sugar and a quarter-ounce of ground cinnamon, with flour enough—above a pound— to make a paste. Eoll this out thin, and stamp it into small cakes. Bake them on paper. They may be iced, or have sifted sugar strewed over them. Sugar Tea-Cakes,— The same, with two eggs only. 1031. Derby Short-CaJces and Pikelets.—Rub down a pound of butter into two pounds of flour, and mix with this a half-pound of beat sugar, an egg, and as much milk as will make a paste. Roll this out thin, and cut out the cakes in any form. Bake on tin plates for about ten minutes. They may be iced. Pikelets.—A pint of milk, a pound of flour, two beat eggs, a spoonful of yeast or a little baking soda, with a particle of salt, and sugar, and nutmeg to taste. Beat the batter well, bake on a girdle, and butter while hot. 1032. Kent Drop-Cakes.—A pound of flour, a half-pound