ENGLISH CHRISTMAS-GOOSE PIE. 431 Season witli pepper, salt, and chopped parsley.* Place veal and ham forcemeat or sausage-meat, or slices of veal and ham, at the bottom of the dish, then put in the partridges, with a good many bits of butter stuck about them, and either a few scaldedutton-mushrooms or a glassful of mushroom- catsup. Cover the ledge of the dish with strips of puff-paste, and then put on the cover and ornaments. About an hour will bake this pie.—See Perigord Pie^ No. 800. 798. A Goose-Pie,—This is generally made in a raised crust. For a common pie, quarter or cut the goose into eight pieces; season, and bake it with plenty of butter. Two green geese will make a still better pie. They may be baked with either a plain suet-paste, as potato-pasty, or with mashed potatoes laid over the baking-dish, and neatly marked. They should be previously braised. 799. An English Christmas-Goose Pie.\—Bone and season highly a goose and a large fowl. Stuff the latter with forcemeat made of minced tongue or ham, veal, parsley, suet, pepper, and salt, with two eggs, or No. 516. Stew these for twenty minutes in a little good stock in a close stewpan. Put the fowl within the goose, and place that in a raised pie-crust, filling up the vacancies with forcemeat, or slices of parboiled tongue or pigeons, partridges, etc. Put plenty of butter over the meat. This pie will take three hours to bake. It will eat well cold, and keep a long while. 800. Perigord'Pie.—This is a dish which can scarcely be ever prepared in this country, where truffles are scarce, and very inferior to those of France. The Perigord-pie is, how- * French cooks chop the livers with parsley, and stuff with this. They also harde the birds with seasoned lard. Partridges done thus make an admirable cold pie in a raised crust. f This receipt still keeps its place in cookery books, though the pie itself is now comparatively as rare as the capercailzie or the wild boar. Still in the north of England one hears of the wains groaning, about Christmas-tide, under the load of these enormous pies. At such times the hostess of a well frequented inn, of the old school, will construct a pie of circumference rivalling her own; and the county newspaper will record its richness and dimensions. But Yorkshire Pie is a mere joke to those with which a German Baron or Italian noble was wont to regale his vassals. A bullock the outwork,—containing a deer, which contained poultry or game, which contained ortolans and quails, which contained oysters and craw-fish; and all boned and seasoned. How magnificent a Pi^ce de resistance! Such was the cookery of the feudal age.—A Christ- mas pie of tremendous dimensions broke down in 1832 when going from Sheffield as a tribute to Lord Chancellor Brougham.