129 CLEAR GRAVY-SOUPS. use more veal and poultry and less beef. This is the basis of many French sauces, and clear gravy-soups.* 63. Clear Gravy-Soup, ! The Basis of many of the Soups mentioned afterwards. Have eight pounds of a shin of beef, chopped across, a knuckle of veal, or a scrag of mutton, with any fresh trim- mings the larder can furnish, and a piece of lean ham, if the ham-flavour is admired. Heat and rub hard a nicely- tinned stew-pot; melt in it some butter, or rub it with mar- row. Let the meat, with a carrot, a head of celery, three onions, and a turnip, each sliced, catchy but not burn, over a rather quick fire ; then add five quarts of soft water. Carefully skim, as formerly directed. When skimmed, throw in a pint of cold water to refresh it, and take off what more scum is detached till it become quite limpid. If the soup is not sufficiently transparent, it may be clari- fied.-}- But careful first cookery is much better than second processes, which hurt the flavour. Let the stew-pot simmer slowly by the fire for four hours (without stirring it any more from the bottom) till all the strength is obtained, but not so long as to cause the soup to become ropy. Take it off and let it settle ; skim off the fat, and strain off * French cookery is imagined to be a very complicated affair. It is, in fact, more easily understood than our own, because its principles are more fixed, and its language more scientific. The Beauvillerian, the Udean^ and Very can systems are laid down as clearly as the Linnaean. Modern French professors have a few grand sounding names which they bestow on elementary gravies and sauces, as Espagnole^ Grande JSspagnoIe, Espagnole Travaillie, Italienne Blanche^ Italienne Botisse, etc., and these, once defined and properly understood, remain ever the same. Our sauces, like our native melodies, are so overlaid with everybody's variations, that it is difficult for the most correct ear or the most discriminating palate to recognise them. And along with all our culinary deficiencies, our cookery-books give double the number of transmogrified and unintelligible receipts that are to be found in the bulkiest French systems. On their comparative value I do not pronounce.—H. J. We must add, that of late French cooks, like French milhners, have become most perplexingly inventive of fine names; as the same dish will have twenty different names given by twenty different artistes^ though it remains the selfsame preparation. f To clarify stoch of all hinds.—Take the white and shell of one egg for every quart, and for each egg and its crushed shell, add a large wine-glass of cold water. Whisk this well, and add gradually as much or more of the boiling stock, still whisking. Pour this mixture to the boiling stock, and continue to whisk briskly till the whole is on the point of boiling, when remove from the fire, and let the stock remain ten minutes, or till the eggs fully separate : Strain carefully. o