492 CHAP. V.—ORNAMENTAL DISHES, ETC. juice. Use a silver skimmer and the finest sugar, and boil only five minutes, or till all scum is removed, as the delicate colour of this sweetmeat is very easily injured. Run it twice through the jelly-bag, if necessary. N.B.—Have the sugar previously boiled to the second degree. 968. Blade Currant Jelly.—Pick the fruit, and scald it in a jar set in boiling water. Strain the hot fruit through a sieve. To every pint of the juice allow a pound of sugar and a quarter-pint of water, and boil and skim for twenty minutes. 969. Another good easy way.—^Clarify the sugar, and put the picked fruit to it. Let it boil for twenty minutes : run off some of the jelly through a sieve, and keep the rest as a jam for common tarts or dumplings, etc. If for sore throats, a little spermaceti may be added to it, or for invalids, a little calf s-feet jelly. 970. Gooseberry and Cranberry Jellies.—Clarify an equal weight of sugar with that of the fruit. Boil the fruit and sugar for twenty minutes, and run the jelly through a sieve, allowing a little to remain a thick jam, which may be sea- soned with spices and used for dumplings and children's pies.—Obs, Where cranberries are gathered in this country, old-fashioned good housewives put cinnamon to those they preserve for tarts. Cloves or mace would be as suitable.—• See No. 811, and Cranberry-Gruel., No. 1145. 971. Raspberry-J am.—Take three parts of picked finest raspberries and one of red currant juice, with equal weight of sugar. Put on half the sugar with a little water; skim this and add the fruit. Boil for fifteen minutes, add the other half of the sugar, and boil for another five minutes, and, when cold, pot the jam. This and all other jams may be made with less sugar, if they are longer boiled: but both colour and quality will sufier in the process. Less boiling will serve if the sugar is previously high-boiled. 972. Strawberry-J am,—Gather fine scarlet strawberries, quite ripe. Bruise them slightly, and put about a sixth- part of red currant juice to them: take nearly equal weight of sugar, pounded, and strew it over them in the preserving- pan ; or better, let them lie thus for some hours, or a nig^t; then boil quickly for fifteen minutes; pot, and next day cover with brandied or egged papers.—See No. 995. 973. Gooseberry and Black Currant Jam.—Take equal