DUCKS AND PHEASANTS. 99 geese with chestnuts, as in the receipt for Turkey (Note, p. 95). The liver is chopped with the chestnuts, and both are fried together in lard before the goose is stuffed with them.* Onions, fried in the goose fat, is a favourite accom- paniment with some old-fashioned provincial eaters. Rings of large onions cooked in strong consomme are more delicate, but not better. 29. To Eoast Ducks, Teal, and Widgeons. Keep ducks three days; if young they are ready when killed. If a pair are to be roasted, one may be stuffed as directed for a goose, with less than half the quantity of stuffing; and to suit all tastes the other may be done plain, seasoning with only pepper and salt. From three quarters of an hour to a whole hour will roast ducks. Baste well, and dust lightly with flour to make them froth, and look of a rich, warm brown. Green pease are indissolubly allied with ducklings.—Sauce, Apple-sauce, onion, or sage-sauce, or Dr Redgill's sauce for goose, duck, etc. (See Nos. 292, 293.)—Wild Ducks are roasted in the same way, but made very crisp; and, as they are smaller, they take less time— from twenty-five minutes to half an hour.—Sauce, Pleydel's sauce for wild fowl; Orange Gravy-sauce; or No. 295— The above receipt is also applicable to Teal and Widgeons, —Obs. Some epicures prefer wild fowl underdone, to have the flavour in perfection; and to secure this, they eat it without sauce. All sorts of wild fowl require to be longer kept than your " tame villatic fowl,'' because they are drier in the flesh, for the same reasons that a city alderman is more abounding in juices than a backwoodsman or an Indian hunter.—See Hashed Duck, Made-Dishes, etc* 30. To Roast Pheasants, Partridges, Guinea Fowl, etc. These birds are trussed in the same manner: the craw is drawn out by a slit in the neck, the head is left on, and the kgs of the partridge are tucked across each other. Put a little fresh butter inside; baste frequently, and dredge with flour to froth; the fire must be brisk and clear. A partridge will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes; a pheasant from thirty to forty-five, or more. Make a round of toast; * A young salted goose answers very well dressed as duck in saur isroute,—?, T.