PIGEONS. 101 cloth over the birds, and place lumps of charcoal under them and over the cloth. Charcoal baskets and closets may be had on the scale adapted to small establishments. We have no faith in charcoal doing much good in the way of restoring what is much tainted, though this is often con- fidently asserted. The knife applied to the worst parts, scraping and constantly removing the mustiness, and, when to be used, washing with hot water is the preferable method. Game, when it is wished to be kept to grace a gala day, besides the above precautions, may be parboiled or par- roasted ; in short, kept for ten minutes in boiling water, or laid to the fire for seven minutes, which must be made to touch all parts. Then dry thoroughly, ana to keep, use salt, sugar, and pepper, as above. Before roasting, cleanse from this seasoning, and season with a little fresh pepper. But the preservation of game depends as much on the sportsman as on the cook. A bird or hare much mangled by shot will taint far more quickly than one killed in a "gentlemanly way;" and what has fallen into the water, than that which drops on land. For some seasons back the southern sportsmen, who frequent the Highland moors, have paid great attention to preserving and packing their game. Stuffing with and packing in hops is found to answer better than any other method yet employed, and is now generally resorted to. The date of shooting is written on a card tied to the birds; so that the cook cannot be far astray. 31. To Roast Woodcocks, Snipes, Plovers, Rails, and Ortolans. Keep them till tender. They must not be drawn, as the intestines are considered a delicacy. (This rule admits of exceptions. The proverb says, " What is one man's meat is another man's poison.") Hook to your bottle-jack or tie them on a bird-spit, which fix to the spit, and lay down to a clear, brisk fire. Lay slices of moistened toast in the dripping-pan, to catch the trail. These birds^ and moor- game require to be deluged with butter in roasting. Dish them on the toasts, pour clear brown beef or game gravy very hot into the dish, and set it on a hot table, or over steam, or a spirit lamp. These birds will take from twenty- five to thirty minutes, in proportion to the size.—&mc€!^