440 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIE.3, ETC. veal or lamb, thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour; add a little grated lemon-peel, white pepper, salt, a very- little cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the mince in this till quite hot, and fill up the patties, which are best baked empty, as above, as the mince-meat hardens in the baking.—Serve as No. 820. 822. Egg and Ham Patties.—In these hread is used for paste, or they are served en croustade.—Scoop out part from thick slices of a stale quartern loaf; shake the croustades, and fry them of a gold colour: drain and fill the cavity with ham, prepared as directed for chicken and ham patties; lay a nicely-poached egg on each.—Obs. Small loaves, with a thick bottom-crust, are baked for this purpose; and what bakers call sandwich loaves answer well. 823. Rabbit and Hare Patties.—Mince the best parts of a cold roast rabbit or hare, very fine, with a little finely-shred mutton-suet. Draw a gravy from the bones and skins, or take any other good gravy; thicken it with butter and flour, and season with salt, cayenne, pepper, nutmeg, mace, the grate of half a lemon, and a very little red wine, or any suitable flavoured vinegar. Stew the mince, and fill the patties as above directed.—Obs. If there be any stuffing of the hare left, it will make, when minced, a good addition to the patties, as will all the native gravy left about veal, hare, etc. 824. Oyster-Patties.—Prepare the paste for these patties as in No. 820, and wash in their own liquor, and beard as many small oysters as will make a dozen of patties. Strain the liquor, and put to it an ounce of butter rolled in flour. Cut the oysters into small bits, and stew them ten minutes with a little salt, mace, and white pepper, the grate of half a small lemon, and, if liked, a little cayenne. A spoonful of thick cream may be added. Put this hot into the patty- crusts when ready to serve. Some good cooks put a little minced parsley to the oysters, with salt and pepper, and no other seasoning.—Dish and serve as No. 820. 825. Lobster-Patties.—Chop the meat of the tail and claws of a boiled hen-lobster. Pound a little of the spawn in a mortar, with a half-ounce of butter crumbled, a little veal- jelly, gravy or butter, and a spoonful of cream; add a seasoning of cayenne, mace, salt, a little essence of anchovy,