SCOTCH HARE, RABBIT, OR GAME SOUP. 145 herbs, and a large head of celery. Boil for three hours and strain. Brown the small chops nicely in a saute-ipsjij and add them to the strained stock, and simmer for an hour and a half. Strain the blood; rub it with flour, rice-flour, or arrow-root, and a half pint of the soup, as if making starch; add more hot soup, and put the whole into the soup, which must be kept only at the point of boiling for ten minutes, lest the blood curdle. The soup may be farther thickened with the parboiled liver, pounded in a mortar with the pieces of hare boiled for stock. When enough done, skim, put in a glass of catsup, and one or more of red wine, what more salt, pepper, and cayenne is required, and also essence of celery. Serve with the hare-steaks in the tureen.—Obs. Red wine, in the proportion of a quarter-pint to a tureen of soup, is reckoned an improvement by some gourmands; and those of the old school still like a large spoonful of currant-jelly dissolved in the soup. Hare-soup may be made by cutting down the ingredients and placing them in an earthen jar, in a kettle of boiling water, for four hours, and then managing as above. Cold roast hare, not over- done, cut to pieces and stewed for an hour in good and highly-seasoned broth, will make an excellent, but not the highest flavoured Hare-soup. (See Civet ofHare, No. 617.) You may lay aside as much of the fleshy part of a good hare as will make a handsome dish of hare-cakes, or minced collops, garnished with sippets; or as will make forcemeat balls for the soup.—Cold roast kare^ game, or veal, will all of them, if cut down, and slowly stewed for an hour in broth, or in a gravy drawn from their bones, or even in boiling water, thickened with brown flour, kneaded in butter, and rather highly seasoned with onions, pepper, and cayenne, make a very palatable family Steiv-soup, Many prefer this mode of re-dressing cold meat to either hashing oy fricasseeing. The burnt outside, skins, and every thing unfit for the tureen, should first be trimmed away; or, if these are boiled to make the stock, it must be strained before the hashed meat is added to it. 88. Modern or English Hare-Sonp. In England the blood is not generally used: cut down the hare into nice pieces, and stew these with a pound of good lean of ham, four onions, stuck with four cloves, four G