BEEF-STEAKS MUTTON, LAMB, AND PORK CHOPS. Ill 39. Beef-steaks with. Potatoes or Beans, An Excellent French Dish. Flatten and season with salt and mixed spices neatly- cut rump or tender-loin steaks. Dip them in melted butter to keep in their native gravy whilst broiling. Have ready, in a hot dish by the fire, a very little parboiled and finely- shred parsley, with butter, a squeeze of lemon, pepper, and salt. When the steaks are broiled, as directed in the last receipt, lay them on this, and turn them quickly over once or twice, and arrange very hot sliced fried potatoes around them, or potato fritters; or serve French beans. 40. To Broil Mutton and Lamb Chops, etc. Mutton and Lamb Chops, Rabbit cut in quarters. Sweetbreads and Kidneys, may be broiled as above; but particular care must be taken that the f^it which drops from mutton does not smoke the chops—^to prevent which, turn them frequently, and remove or place the gridiron aslant backwards when the smoke rises. Kidneys must be stretched on a skewer to prevent their curling with the heat. Each of these things may be higher dressed by dipping them in egg, and then in a mixture of bread-crumbs and savoury herbs, which may also be strewed over them as they broil. —Sauces for mutton-chops the same as for beef-steaks. For Lamb, the Catsup is better omitted, and Cucumber or Maitre d'Hotel sauce substituted. 41. To Broil Pork-chops. PoRK-CHOPS should be delicately cut from the neck or loin, and trimmed from part of the fat. Dust them with white pepper, with which is mixed a spice of cayenne. Broil them for from fifteen to twenty minutes over a clear sharp fire, strewing over them a little salt when they are nearly cooked. They must be served broiling hot and cess:---"Nor any receipt to that of Macbeth," said Winterblossom—" not lie of the hotel, but of Shakspeare, Doctor;" and he spouted, " If it were done, when His done, Then 'twere well that it loere done quicJclyf" "Stolen from the New Monthly,''^ said Jekyll, only half-aside: and the Doctor, more than ever convinced that little assistance for the Great Work could be obtained either from the finical Guardsman or the flighty old Beau, gave himself in seriousness to the serious business of dining.