68 CHAP. II. BOILING. pease-pudding tied up, and carrots laid to one side. The same steamer may have small saucepans fitting into the lid, in which apple-sauce, for example, or parsley may be cooked, or butter melted. If the steamed meats are of suitable kinds, the liquor which must occasionally be drawn off by the tap of the steamer, will make good soup when it is allowed to cool and the cake of fat is taken off. Steaming requires fully as long time as boiling. Cooldng by Gas,—Some years since we had great hopes of the success of cooking by gas^ which must have been of immense convenience to small families where gas is used for lighting. We regret to say that no great progress has been made: gas cookery is still not only unsatisfactory, but ex- pensive. CHAPTER II. 1. To Boil a Round of Beef. A ROUND or rump of salted beef may be boiled whole, or may be divided into two or three pieces, according to the size of the joint, and the number of the guests or family. [For salting it, see No. 1188.] It is a common error to boil too much of a large ham or round at once. If boiled whole, the bone may be cut out; if divided, it is desirable to give each piece an equal proportion of the fat; the tongue^ or silver side is the best. Wash the meat, and if over-salt, soak it in one or more waters till it be sufficiently freshened. Skewer it up tightly, and of a good shape, wrapping the flap or tongue-piece very firmly round; and then bind it with strong tape, or fillets of linen. The pot should be roomy, and the water should just cover the meat. A fish-drainer is convenient to boil this and other large pieces on. Heat gradually; take off the scum (of which a great deal will be thrown up), till no more rises, and throw in cold water to refine the liquor farther, and scum again; cover the pot close, and boil slowly, but at an equal tem- perature, allowing about three hours to from 12 to 16 pounds, and from that to four or five hours for a weightier piece. Turn the meat once or twice in the pot during the process. Put in carrot and turnip about two hours after the meat. If