OF BEEF. 287 Cut a fresh kidney in slices of the size of very small steaks, or into mouthfuls. Soak the slices in warm water, and dry them well. Dust them with flour, and brown them in a stewpan with fresh butter. When the coUops are browned, pour a little hot water into the pan, a minced eschalot, or the white of four young onions minced, with salt, pepper, cayenne, shred parsley, and a spoonful of plain or eschalot vinegar, or of onion-pickle liquor. Cover the stewpan close, and let the collops simmer slowly for two hours at least. [We give all internal parts of animals twice the time to cook allowed by most authorities.] If a flavoured vinegar is not used, a spoonful of mushroom-catsup put in a minute before the collops are dished will be a great improvement. Thicken the gravy. Garnish with fried parsley.—Ols. Some good cooks season this dish with an anchovy and lemon-pickle; others add made-mustard. 399. Beef-Kidneys for the Dejeuner ci la Fourchette,— Mince the kidneys into bits the size of a hazel-nut, and season highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Fry the mince for fifteen minutes, or till tender; moisten it with gravy and champagne, and serve in a hot-water dish. Cat- sup, or lemon or walnut pickle may be used in place of wine, and the mince may be first marinaded in vinegar and herbs.— See Rognons de Mouton^ No. 648. 400. To Stew Ox-Tails.—Let the butcher divide them at the joints. Scald them; dry and then brown them in the stewpan, add a little hot water or weak broth, with brown roux or a piece of butter rolled in browned flour. Stew them slowly till tender, and season with salt, mixed pep- pers, minced parsley, and either a spoonful of catsup or of eschalot-vinegar. We think cayenne an improvement.— See No. 96. 401. HotcJi-Potch of Ox-Tails^ or Rumps d la mode—a French Dish.—Have two tails jointed, and blanch them as for soup, No. 96. Cover a stewpan with trimmings of meat or poultry, and put in the tails, with four sliced onions, two carrots, a fagot of herbs, a bay-leaf, three cloves, and a clove of garlic. Moisten this with broth; cover it with slices of bacon, then with paper, then the lid, and over all put a few hot cinders. Let it simmer for four hours, till the meat will part easily from the bones with a spoon.