814 CHAP. I.—MADE-DISHES Ohs. This is a good and economical way of dressing cold roast mutton for family use.*—See also pp. 291, 292, and French Cooker^/. N.B.—Almost every dish made of cold mutton may be prepared in the same way as lamb. Made-Dishes of Lamb. See Index for Roast Lamb, Saddle of Lamb, Chops of Frying^ Boiling^ Head^ etc. 488. Breast of Lamb with Cucumbers—Chop off the bone^ and, notching the breast well, stew it in good gravy for twenty minutes. Take it up, drain and score it in diamonds. Season it with mixed spices, dredge it with flour, and finish in a Dutch oven. Serve on stewed cucumbers, or green pease. 489. Lamb-Cutlets with Spinage.—Take cutlets from the loin; trim, flatten, season, and broil them; and placing spin- age (No. 197) high and neatly in a dish, dress the cutlets round it. Lamb-cutlets are also savourily served with a ragout of mushrooms or oysters, the cutlets laid around the ragout. Asparagus, or asparagus-pease, are very suitable to dressed dishes of lamb. 490. Shoulder of Lamb Stuffed,—Bone the shoulder, and fill up the vacancy with forcemeat. Braise the meat very slowly over embers, or a stove ; or stew it plainly in the same manner. Glaze, and serve it either with sorrel-sauce, tomata-sauce, or stewed cucumbers. 491. Lamb-Steaks Ragout—Stew them in veal-stock, to which a very little sweet milk is put, and season with white pepper and mace. When nearly ready, thicken the sauce with a little mushroom-powder, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Add a large glassful of good boiling cream. 492. Lamb-Steaks^ Brown, see pp. 111-117.—Flatten and season them. Brush them with egg, and dip them in a * A Poor Man of Mutton.—This Scotch dish is the hlade-bone grilled, or heated before the fire. There is a traditionary story of Lord , after a long and severe fit of illness with which he was seized in London, horrifying his landlord by whining forth from behind his bed-curtains, when urged to choose and eat, "I think I could relish a snap o' a Puir man." Swift's scheme for Ireland went only the length of eating Poor Children!