175 TO DRESS STURGEON TEASED SKATE. 129. To Dress Sturgeon. This fish does not eat well boiled. If boiled, skin it. It should be roasted or baked, basting with plenty of butter, and serving with a rich gravy flavoured with anchovy, wine, and juice of lemon; or with any favourite flavoured vinegar. Slices of sturgeon, skinned, are egged, dipped in bread- crumbs, seasonings, and chopped parsley, and broiled en papillote. This fish is seldom seen in England, and not so much admired as on the Continent. SaucCj—Oyster or lobster sauce, or melted butter, with a little soy and essence of anchovy. A nonsensical imitation of pickled sturgeon is made of a large turkey, boned and stewed in a rich pickle, made of a quart of wine-vinegar, a pint of Rhenish wine, salt and spices. The Chinese dress sturgeon in a way to us unknown, which the English at Canton admire. 130. Teased Skate. Economical and good. From Dr Hunter^s Culina, Take the dried wing of a skate, and after stripping off the skin, cut it into lengths of about one inch in breadth. Put the fish, so prepared, into water, and boil for the space of twenty minutes; after which let it be put into the oven, where it should remain a quarter of an hour, during which time it will become so tender as to permit the bones to be drawn out. The flesh being now detached from the bones, it should be put into a cloth, and well rubbed with the hands till it puts on a woolly appearance, which it will soon do. Take a saucepan, and in it reduce about half a pound of butter into oil, when the teased fish should be put into it, and kept stirring for the space of fifteen minutes. When sufficiently heated, serve up.—Ohs. Skate, so prepared, may be eaten as salt fish, with egg-sauce, mashed potatoes, or parsnips. The whole wing of a large skate will require half a pound of butter when put into the saucepan. It is a dish prepared at small expense. It may be served in a dish with a paste border, or in a casserole of mashed potatoes. 131. To Boil Skate.* If to be crimp, boil it quite fresh; if liked tender and * Skate differs more in quality than perhaps any other fish. It should be broad and thick, roughish on the back, and of a creamy or opal-tinged