CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 456 shred suet, four of cleaned currants, and an ounce of candied orange-peel and citron sliced. Bake in patty-pans, or fry these small puddings, making them up of an egg-shape. Serve with wine pudding-sauce and sliced lemon. — Ohs, Bread-crumbs or pounded biscuit may be used instead of half the flour when the pudding is to be baked. For all puddings bread-crumbs are much lighter than flour. 862. Puddings in haste. — Mix a little shred suet with grated bread, a handful of cleaned currants, the beat yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Add grated lemon- peel and ginger. Mix, and roll this up with flour, rolling with two spoons, in balls the size of a small egg. Have ready a pan of fast boiling-water, and slip them in. When done, they will rise to the top. Serve with pudding-sauce. —Nos. 305, 306, 834. 863. Liverpool or Fig Pudding. — Half a pound of suet minced, half a pound of figs minced, a tablespoonful of flour and grated bread to make up half a pound, three eggs, all mixed up with milk, and boiled in a shape the same as plum-pudding. It is better made without milk, and boiled from one hour to one and a half. Prunes may be taken instead of figs. 864. Dutch Pudding^ or Albany Cake.—Mix two pounds, or rather less, of good flour with a pound of butter, melted in half a pint of milk. Add to this the whites and yolks of eight eggs separately beaten, a half-pound of fine sifted sugar, a pound of cleaned currants, and a few chopped almonds, or a little candied orange-peel sliced fine. Put to this four spoonfuls of yeast. Cover it up for an hour or two, and bake it for an hour in a wide flattish dish. When cold it eats well sliced as a sort of cake.* 865. A Welsh Pudding.—Melt a half-pound of butter by setting it in a basin floating in hot water, and gradually mix it with the beat yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four. Sweeten with fine pounded sugar, and season with the grate of a lemon and a little nutmeg. Bake in a dish with an ornamental paste-border; and when ready, stick slices of citron or candied orange peel round the edge.—No. 84P. * This was a bonne louche at the substantial rural tea-parties of the State of New York. The feast, begun with fried eggs and bacon, ended with buck-wheat and other cakes, and the above preparation.