CHAP. VII.—FISH. 190 blade or two of mace, and the juice of a lemon or a little good vinegar. Strain this over the lobster-meat, and cover with a light paste. Soy, wine, cayenne, and catsup will make this pie more relishing.—Ohs. Some knowing gour- mands have lobster-pies made of alternate layers of lobster and oyster meat, and bread-crumbs, with small farce-balls of pounded oysters, lobster-coral, and essence of anchovies. 159. Fish Re-Warmed,—ifaz^re. Cut cold cod, turbot, skate, pike, or other fish, in neat bits or flakes from the bone: place in a dish any sauce left of it, and lay the bits on this, pouring over them four ounces of butter melted in cream, and thickened and seasoned to your taste with cayenne, made-mustard, and Harvey's fish sauce. Heat thoroughly in a Dutch oven: the dish may have a paste border, or be served on another dish in a puffed napkin.—See Nos. 683, 684, for French receipts. 160. A Savoury Shrimp or Prawn Vie—Maigre. Have as many well-cleaned shrimps or prawns as will nearly fill the pie-dish. Season with pounded mace, cloves, a little cayenne, or Chili vinegar. Put some butter in the dish, and cover with a light puff-paste. Less than three- quarters of an hour will bake these pies. 161. An Excellent Salt-Fish 'Pie—Maigre. This may be made of either cod or haddocks salted, but not too dry. Steep and boil the fish. Trim away all skins, bones, and fins, and cut them into thin handsome pieces. Boil hard, and peel half a dozen eggs, and slice them thin; do the same with as many well-sized onions. Have plenty of parboiled potatoes sliced. Place some bits of butter and a layer of potatoes in the bottom of a large pie-dish, then fish, then eggs, then onions, and again butter, thus filling up the dish, shaking pepper over every separate layer, and putting butter over each. Make a sauce of chopped hard- boiled yolks of eggs, melted butter, a little made-mustard, and essence of anchovy, or soy, and pour it over the pie. Cover it with a puff paste, or with mashed potatoes, scal- loped round the edge, and glazed with eggs. This pie, if with potato, will not require much of the oven. — Obs. Pies may