416 CHAP. III. SCOTCH AND OTHER NATIONAL DISHES. Shred down, as if for pickling, eighteen or twenty large, firm, white drum-cabbages, fully ripened, and better if mel- lowed by frost. Fumigate a tight, clean cask, or butter- tub, by burning a handful of green wood in it. Rub the seams with a dough made of vinegar and flour, or leaven, and strew in a handful of salt, with a few caraway-seeds; and so proceed with alternate layers of sliced cabbage, and salt and caraway-seeds, till the vessel is filled, pressing every successive layer firmly down. Pour off part of the liquor which will collect on the top when the cabbage is pressed down. Cover, and place the vessel in a rather warm temperature, when the cabbage will quickly ferment. When it has fermented for above a fortnight, take off the scum ; throw a piece of cloth over the cabbage, and put on the head of the cask, which press down on the cabbage with heavy stones, keeping the cabbage always covered with the pickle-liquor. In a cool, dry cellar, it will keep for years. Two ounces of salt will be sufficient for a large cabbage. (Gin, juniper-berries, and wine, are suggested by French cooks for Sauer Crout—Absurdities!) When wanted, boil in water for three or four hours; drain and stew in broth, or with a piece of coarse beef or a knuckle of ham. It is served with or over dry hashes, or sliced meat re-dressed; also, instead of potato-paste, and over beef-steak pie, or stewed duck (next receipt) or goose salted; and is a good accompaniment to many meat-dishes that wont to be served with mashed potatoes. Old cheese is sometimes grated over the cooked crout 762^. Duch with Sauer Crout, German.—Braise a lialf- pound of drained sauer crout with a good piece of bacon, parsley, onions, spices, and savoury herbs, and any fresh braise liquor you have. Lay the duck in the middle of it, cover with more slices of bacon; moisten with top-fat, and stew slowly. When about half done, add some small sau- sages. Drain the sauer crout when ready to serve, and place the duck over it, with the sausages around.—Ohs. These dishes are for the first course in place of our soups, and must be served in deep dishes. 763. Provence Brandade, an excellent way of dressing Salt Fish.—Soak in water and brush the fish (some use lime- water to whiten, but we do not recommend it). Stew it as directed for salt cod or ling, No. 128. Oil a sufficient quan-