INSTITUTION OF THE 22 it not pauncli—seemed a reservoir of the very gravy of human kindness; his full, oleaginous lips curved over like the ledges of an overf]owing sauce-tureen. Having cast his slough, and got purified from the defilements of the sty, arrayed his outward man in a scanty suit of brown tendered by the Nabob, and fortified the inner with the full of one of Meg's long-stalked, enamelled antique glasses of Touch- wood's CuraQoa, the Doctor was so far mollified as to add to a grateful eulogy on the qualities of the liqueur an acknowl- edgment of the attention of the administrator. " Never mind it, man," said the easy Nabob ; " I at least am indebted to the delinquent sow; she abridges ceremony and idle introductions. You must take a bachelor's dinner with me to-day. No refusal, positively. A glass of Meg's good wine must make amends for short commons I vow this brush has done me good." Nothing was farther from the real intention of Dr Red- gill than to refuse an invitation, which the savoury steams now issuing from Meg's kitchen—steams that might have created a stomach under the ribs of death—^rendered irre- sistibly seductive. With a decent show of hesitation, he yielded; and, snuffing up the incense-breathing vapours which ascended the stair, followed the Nabob to a private parlour, where an old, rich china basin, filled with the balmy and ambrosial fluid, scented from afar, was twice replenished for his solace; first, however, improved by a pin's point of crystals of Cayenne from his silver pocket-case of essence- vials, which had luckily escaped the taint of the sty. " Excellent hare-soup—very excellent indeed I pronounce it, Mr Touchwood. All the blood preserved — the con- sistence—the concoction complete—the seasoning admirable. Sir, I abhor the injustice of withholding from the poor cook the praise that is her due. It is bad policy, Mr Touch- wood. This hare-soup, I say it again, is admirable; and soup, to my thinking, though a Scottish mode, the very best way of dressing a hare. Sir, you are in snug quarters here.