462 CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIESy ETC. ing water as wanted; or for four hours, if a three-pound pudding. Probe with a packing-needle, to see if it is tender. \yhen so, take it up, untie the cloth, wipe the mould or basin, and have a finer outer case to serve it in, or a napkin —or what we call " a pie-dish jacket''—to pin round it. It will require no gravy, as its own, completely preserved, will be sufficient. By the above plan of serving, a lighter pudding is obtained than if the whole paste were made so thick as to turn out in the usual way. If wanted to turn out, proceed as above; but butter the mould, line it with a substantial crust, and when served carve the pudding in horizontal slices.—Ohs. These puddings may be made fatter by suet, and also enriched with several ingredients, as mushrooms, oysters, etc. The same sort of pudding may be made of mutton or lamb-chops, not too fat, or of cold dressed beef or mutton, and the crust may be made econom- ically, of half-suet, half-dripping. This mode of cookery, like No. 766, is found peculiarly convenient everywhere in " The Bush," in Canada, and Australia, where culinary appliances are deficient, and where men weary of always pork, mutton and " damper Baker's dough may be used for the crust. 875^. Potato-Pasty, — This favourite preparation, like meat-puddings, curries, small pies, and nicely-dressed small savoury dishes of cold cooked meat, we hold in especial esteem from its use in respectable families in middle life, where a limited, income does not preclude that nice cookery which costs nothing save a little (agreeable) trouble, and adds so much to domestic comfort. Tin-moulds, for potato- pasty, are sold at the ironmongers' shops, like other moulds. The pasty may be made of beef, mutton, veal, pork, game, fish; and, in brief, whatever may be dressed as a savoury pie will answer equally well for a potato-pasty, and whether raw or previously cooked. Have from two to three pounds of the material; cut, trim, season, and lay it in the mould, as if making a pie or meat-pudding. A little more fat may be used with potato than with flour-paste or rice. Add water or gravy, cayenne and catsup, or whatever kind of seasoning is best adapted to the meat used, at discretion; also mushrooms, catsup, or curry-powder, with veal, and with fish a little Harvey. Put the tin perforated cover down into the mould, and upon it, to the thickness of three or