CHAP. I.— MADE-DISHES 320 bits, and warm these in good gravy, or in gravy drawn from the head, bones, etc. Season with mixed spices, an onion, savoury herbs, and a little wine. Pick out the onion and lierbs, and serve the hash with toasted sippets.—Ols. Hare may also be dressed as directed for braised goose. See No. 520. 510. Hare-Calces.—Mince the best parts of the hare with a little firm mutton-suet. Season the mince highly. Pound it in a mortar, and make up the cakes with raw eggs, as small cakes, or sausage-roll; flour and fry them, or do them in a Dutch oven.—See Gateau de Lievre^ No. 660. 511. To Smother Rabbits,—Truss them and boil them, throwing away the first water in ten minutes ; smother them with white onion-sauce, melting the butter with milk or cream, that it may look very white.—Obs. In Scotland, rabbits used to be smothered in an onion-sauce made with strong clear gravy instead of melted butter ; and though the dish looked less fine, it was at least equally savoury. Rab- bits cannot be too slowly simmered. Those who dislike strong onion-sauce for this dish may use a part of apples, turnips, or bread. Celery, artichoke-bottoms, young pease, and French beans, are all used as ragouts for rabbits. Warren rabbits are far before tame ones for the table,—wild ones are better still. All should have the boiling water changed. 512. To Fry Rabbits.—Cut them in joints, and fry them in fresh butter, with dried parsley and a sprinkling of sage. Serve liver-and-parsley-sauce. Rabbits may also be fri- casseed as directed for chickens. They make an excellent pie, a good soup, and may be potted or jugged. See also Curry^ Pie, Rabbits ct la Venetienne^ etc. Made-Dishes of Poultry and Game. See also pages 94 to 105, 112, 118; and Nos. 660 to 669. 513. To Boil Fowls with Rice.^—Stew a large white fowl in a little clear mutton or veal stock, seasoned with white * This is quite the French dish Poularde au riz. Fowls a la Turque are much the same thing too, save that they are stuffed with seasoned rice, in roasting have the breast covered with layers of bacon, and are papered till done. No. 515 is much the same as the dish in French cookery called Foulets aux huitres.