MADE-DISHES OF BEEF. 361 tongue into nice round slices. Heat them in Espagnole (No. 585), adding pepper, salt, and a little stock. Dress them hot round a dish, each slice leaning on the edge of the other, which is usually called en miroton. They may be glazed if liked. 624. Langue de Bcmf a la Braise^ Tongue braised.—Clean a large tongue, as directed, No. 397. Parboil and skin it, and lard it all across with lardons^ season with cooks' pepper. Put it in a stewpan that will just hold it. Cover it with good stock, and a glass of wine. Season with a bay-leaf, two cloves, two carrots, and three onions, and with any trimmings of veal, poultry, or game, you have. Put paper over it, and hot embers over the lid, and stew it slowly with fire under and over for two hours and a half. Garnish with the roots, and sauce the tongue with the strained gravy seasoned, to which add a little Espagnole,—N.B. This is of a very high gout. So are the following :— 625. Stewed Rump of Beef with glazed onions^ d la Fran- chaise.—Bone and lard a rump of from twenty to twenty- five pounds, slantways, with lardons of bacon six or seven inches long: put the sawed bone, four or five pounds of trimmings of the meat, and a pound of ham, into a stew- pan of the proper size. Add three onions, two carrots, a turnip, a head of celery, a leek, a bunch of parsley, and one of sweet herbs, with four bay-leaves, a dessertspoonful of peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Put in a pint of water, or rather more, to prevent the cut-meat from burning, and, when the gravy has become a glaze, put in the rump, and fill up the stewpan with water, and a little salt added. Let it simmer for six hours. With a packing-needle try if the beef is done : previous to this, have ready eighteen onions of middle size, blanched, and browned in butter in a saute-pan, with a half-ounce of pounded sugar: cover them with stock when browned, and let this simmer till it becomes a thin glaze. Have, also, eighteen slices of carrot, and eighteen bits of turnip, shaped like small pears, and prepared as the onions. Dish the rump. Dress the 'vegetables round it; but have ready a gravy for it made of the glaze of the vegetables, a quart of brown-gravy, and a pint and a half of stock. Season this with pepper and salt, and reduce by a rapid boil, and pour it over the vegetables and onions. Q