443 PUDDINGS. or clotli. Let the several ingredients be each fresh and good of its kind; as one bad article, particularly eggs, will taint the whole composition. Have the moulds and pud- ding-cloths carefully washed when used; the cloths with wood-ashes, and dried in the open air. Lay them aside sweet, and thoroughly dry. Puddings ought to be put into plenty of boiling water, which must be kept up on a quick boil; or baked, in general, in a sharp but not scorching oven. A pudding in which there is much bread must be tied loosely, to allow room for swelling. A hatter-pudding ought to be tied up firmly. Moulds should be quite full, well buttered and covered with a fold or two of paper, floured and buttered. Eggs for puddings must be used in greater quantity when of small size. The yolks and whites, if the pudding is wanted particularly light and nice, should be strained after being separately well beaten. A little salt is necessary for all potato, bean, or pease puddings, and all puddings in which there is suet or meat. It saves sugar and improves the flavour. The several ingredients, after being well stirred together, should, in general, have a little time to stand, that the flavours may blend. A frequent fault of boiled puddings, which are often solid bodies, is being underdone. Baked puddings are as often scorched. Puddings may be steamed with advantage, placing the mould or basin in the steamer; or three parts dipped in a pot of boiling water, which must be kept boiling, and eked up as the water wastes. When the pudding-cloths are to be used, dip them in hot water, and dredge them with flour; the moulds must be buttered. Plain moulds or basins are easiest managed. When a pudding begins to set in the oven, stir it up in the dish to prevent the fruit, etc., from settling down to the bottom; and if boiled, turn over the cloth in the pot for the same reason, and also to prevent it from sticking to the bottom, on which a plate may be laid as a preventive. The time of boiling must be according to size and solidity. Large puddings are sometimes tethered to the ring of a twelve or fifteen pound weight to keep them below water in the pot. When the pudding is taken out of the pot, dip it quickly into cold water, and set it in a basin of its size. It will then more readily separate from the cloth without breaking. Have the oven very clean for all uses, cleaning it regularly before lighting the fire. Take care that