208 CHAP. VIII. VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. potatoes, and are now largely imported. Soak them from two to six or more hours, as found necessary. Boil, and when done drain them, and steam for a few minutes by the fire, adding salt, pepper, and a bit of butter. Or, after boil- ing, they may be stewed with meat or in gravy. The great objection to the red kidney beans is their colour, which offends the English eye. 195. French Beans. Cut off the stalks, and strip off the strings. If the beans are old, cut them in two, slantways. Lay them in a weak pickle of salt and water for a half-hour. Put them into water that boils quickly, and when done, which will be best known by trying them, drain, and serve them with melted butter.—Ohs. When old and large they are best split, as well as cut aslant. Dish in a pyramid. 196. To Boil Cabbage, Greens, Savoys, and Brussels Sprouts. Strip off the coarse outer leaves, and pare off most of the coarse husk from the branch-stalks; cut off the stem close to the head; wash thoroughly, and put on with plenty of boiling water in an open pot, and a little salt of wormwood, or a bit of soda. Divide half-grown cabbages, and quarter large ones, but tie up to keep them in shape till served. See that they be well covered with boiling water. They will take from fifteen minutes to an hour, or more, according to the age. Small Brussels cabbage are boiled for ten minutes and arranged in the dish as asparagus, or on a buttered toast. The French serve a white sauce, and often send up a cruet of oil with these delicate cabbages. They are also served with Maitre d'Hotel butter. Nos. 590, 590^ 197. Spinage. This delicate vegetable requires very careful picking and washing. When perfectly clean, put it into plenty of boiling water and salt, and boil very quickly, pressing it down with a wooden spoon; ten minutes will boil it. Drain and squeeze it, and throw it into a great quantity of cold water, to pre- serve the colour green. Put a piece of fresh butter and a little salt in the stewpan, and returning the spinage, well squeezed, to heat up, chop it fine. Spread it smoothly on