270 CHAP. IX.—SAUCES, ESSENCES, AND CONDIMENTS. the pickles safely, by keeping tliem for a length of time, first in brine, and then exposed to the steams of vinegar. Potato- plums, elder flowers in the bud, and many other things are pickled besides the vegetables in common use. We do not admire them. 371. To PicTcle Cucumbers.—Lay fifty firm, young, and very small-sized cucumbers, not too ripe or seedy, on flat dishes, having first rubbed them with salt. Keep them covered, and look at them and turn them occasionally for eight or ten days, and then, having carefully drained them, put them in a jar in which vine-leaves or cabbage-leaves are laid, and, pouring two quarts of scalding vinegar over them, cover them with more leaves, and keep them covered by the fire. Next day pour off the vinegar, boil it up, and pour it hot over the cucumbers, again covering them with fresh leaves above and below. A little pounded alum will im- prove the colour; but if it be not good enough, scald them once more by placing the jar in a pan of boiling water, or on a hot hearth. When the colour is tolerably good — for it will never be very brilliant—boil up the vinegar once more with a half-ounce of white pepper, the same of sliced ginger, two drachms of cloves, and a bruised nutmeg. Boil the spices for a few minutes with the vinegar, and when cold, bottle them according to the general directions in the preceding page.— Ohs, A French cook would add a seasoning of tarragon, fennel, and garlic. 372. French heans^ gherkins, Indian-cress seeds, samphire, and other green pickles, are all to be managed as in the above receipt for cucumbers. 373. Cucumbers and Onions pickled. — Pare and slice cucumbers, picking out the seeds; and peel and slice large onions in thick slices. Sprinkle salt over both, and drain for a night, then put them into a stone jar, and pour scald- ing vinegar over them. Close the jar, and set it by the fire. Scald them by placing the jar over a hot hearth, and repeat this till they become of a tolerable colour; then boil up the vinegar with spiceries, as in No. 371. 374. To Fickle Walnuts Green,—Gather the walnuts before they are nearly ripe, and while the shells are still tender. Lay them in a strong pickle of salt and water for ten days.