574 CHAP. III. CURING MEAT, HAMS, ETC. tubs in which meat is cured ought to be kept closely covered with lids, with several folds of blanket, or something of the kind. Meat, till it be taken out to hang up, should be kept covered with fresh pickle, not hitter brine, and rubbed, basted, and turned in the troughs once a-day;—the double or folded parts ought to be looked at, and rubbed; and if any mouldi- ness gather on the meat in any stage of curing, it must be carefully taken off. If the brine become rank with blood and slime, it must be boiled up, skimmed, and, when cold, poured over the hams; or, now that salt is cheap, a fresh pickle should be made. Bruised juniper-berries, coriander-seeds, sweet herbs pounded or not, and all sorts of peppers and aromatic spices, may be used for pickling hams, tongues, rumps, and sausage-meat; also garlic; but this must all be left to the discretion of the cook. 1182. To Cure Hams.—Choose the short thick legs of clean-fed hogs. Those which are just old enough to have the flesh of firm texture, and which have roamed at large in a forest or pasture-land, or been fattened about a dairy-farm, are far the best. To each large ham allow half-a-pound of bay-salt, one ounce of saltpetre, eight ounces of coarse sugar, and a half-pound of common salt, with four ounces of pounded Jamaica and black pepper, and one of coriander - seeds. Pound the ingredients, and heat and mix them well; but first rub in about six ounces of the salt and the saltpetre, and, after two days, drain, and rub in the rest of the salt and the spices. Rub for a long half-hour; lay the hams in the trough; keep them carefully covered, and baste them with the brine every day, or oftener; turn them occasionally, and rub with the brine. Make fresh brine if necessary. Bacon and Pig^s Face are treated as above.—(See pp. 371, 406.) The latter is the better of being pressed down with a weight. Some persons use weights for all cured meat, to firm and keep it below the brine. Hams are spiced by using aromatic spices and sweet herbs in curing. Smoking with green birch, oak, or the odoriferous woods, as juniper, etc., is an immense improvement to all dried salt meats. 1183, To Cure Hams.—M. Tide's Receipt.—As soon as the pig is cold enough to cut up, cut out the round bone from the hams. Rub well with common salt, and drain for three days; then dry the hams; and for two of eighteen