182 CHAP. VII. FISH. minutes to whitings or eels. Lift out the pieces or fillets with a fish slice, and keep them hot. Skim the sauce, and thicken it with brown flour, roux^ or rice-flour; add a small glass of wine, and a large spoonful of mushroom-cat- sup; give it a minute's boiling, and strain it over the dished fish.—Ohs, Stewed fish may be dressed for maigre days in the French manner, making the stock strong, either with fish or butter, or part of both, and using more herbs and seasonings. Lampreys and codlings are the better of having an anchovy and some made-mustard added to the above sauce. Serve them with scraped horseradish, sippets of bread, or fried parsley. 142. To Fry Eels * Skin and clean them, rub them in all cases with salt, and wash in several waters. Cut them in four-inch lengths; but if small, turn them round, the tail to the mouth, and, having rubbed them with salt and mixed spices, brush them with beat egg, and roll in crumbs. Fry in plenty of boiling lard, drain from the fat on a sieve before the fire, and serve with chervil and butter, or parsley and butter, plain melted butter, or melted butter sharpened with Chili vinegar or lemon-juice If maigre^ fry in butter or olive-oil. This, on a maigre day, is a dish for the Pope. N.B.—The fat in which eels are fried does not answer well for frying other fish. 143. To Collar Eels. Split, bone, and skin, without mangling, a large eel. Season * The freshness of an eel is known by its vivacity of motion; and its quality by the colour of the skin. The best kind, the silver eel, is that found in the clearest waters. The dingy yellow, and the deep sallow-green are inferior to the clear, coppery, brown-backed eel, and even to the bronze-coloured. Fresh-water fish of all kinds are best when found in clear streams. The natives of turbid, sluggish waters, are justly considered more difficult of digestion. This is said to be peculiarly the case with salmon. If very slimy, soak the eels in water in which a piece of alum or charcoal is put. The cruelty inflicted on eels is proverbial. Instead of skinning and cutting alive, a humane method of putting them to death is recommended by Dr Kitchiner, which deserves to be generally known. With a sharp- pointed skewer pierce the spinal marrow through the back part of the skull, when life will instantly cease. Mons. Ude gives the following receipt:—" Take live eels, throw them into the fire, and as they are twist- ing about on all sides, lay hold of them with a towel in your hand, and skin them' "