TURKEY, FOWLS, AND GAME—GOOSE. 97 the whitest; they are consequently preferred for boiling.— See To Hash and Devil Turkey; also Made-Dishes of Poultry ^ and French Cookery of Poultry. An excellent Stuffing for a Turkey or Hare^ French fashion, —Chop, and afterwards pound in a mortar, half a pound of beef-suet, equal bulk (but not weight) of soaked bread crumbs, lemon-peel, parsley, and a sprig of thyme chopped, pepper, salt, two beat eggs, and a little milk or broth. This makes an excellent stuffing. (See also Quenelles, French Cookery.)—French cooks are celebrated for their skill in forcemeat; one half of their merit in this department con- sists in their patience at the mortar. Turkey and other poultry are frequently served or garnished with fresh water- cresses; which often suits better than raw parsley, if it could be as easily got. N.B.—A test of turkey, pheasant, fowls, etc., being ready for the spit, is their falling down when suspended in the larder by a few of the tail feathers left for this experiment when the birds are picked. For roasting, choose full-fed, white-legged, large fowls:—smaller ones may do for boiling. 28. To Boast a Goose. A GOOSE, if well cleaned and seasoned inside with pepper, will keep in cold weather for a fortnight or more, and im- prove. Geese are in perfection from Michaelmas to Christ- mas. In Scotland, a goose is often rubbed with salt for ten days before roasting. In England, in rural situations, it is often first parboiled. Where geese are rank this may be advisable, but not otherwise, as it dries the flesh. After the goose is carefully picked and singed, let it be well washed and dried with a cloth. Stuffing,—Four well-sized onions, about fourth their bulk of sage undried, and half the liver; parboil slightly, and chop these very fine: add two ounces of butter, yolk of egg, and a cupful of grated bread:—or ci la bourgeoisie, an equal quantity of mashed potatoes, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. With this stuff the goose. All stuffing, containing bread-crumbs, should be allowed room to swell, and indeed all forcemeat whatever, as it expands more or less in the dressing. Spit the goose; fasten tightly at the neck and rump. Paper the breast, but remove the paper when it has swelled. A goose requires a brisk fire, well kept up; and will, according to size, take E