66 CHAP. I.—BOILING. water; or, what is better, where there is a run of fresh water, steeping the meat in it, or in the trough of a pump. In some circumstances, salted or spiced meat should be left to soak for hours in the liquor in which it wa;> boiled. Some good cooks like the subsequent steep better than much pre- vious soaking. Meat must have time to imbibe salt; but frequent rub- bing and a warm temperature will hasten the process.— In brief, well-tinned clean pots,—thick in the bottom to aid in maintaining an equal temperature,—a clear fire, well washed, and if salt, well-soaked viands, gentle boiling, and most careful skimming, are all the rules that can be given to ensure well-dressed boiled dishes; for the length of time in previous soaking, and subsequent boiling, or rather simmering^ must in almost every case be determined by the size, the condition, and the nature of the provisions.— Ohs. What goes under the general name of pot-liquor^ particularly that in which fresh meat or poultry has been boiled, may be applied to many useful purposes, for which directions will be given. Professed cooks, and works which treat of Gastronomy, uniformly enter a protest against any sort of vegetables being boiled with meat to be served at table, except carrots,—a rule this Avhich the Cleikum Club thought more honoured in the breach than the observance. Watery vegetables, boiled in water and served in wateriness, find no favour in the French kitchen. But meat to be afterwards served cold is hurt in the flavour by green vegetables. There is an adaptation, a natural affinity^ between certain vegetables and roots, and certain pieces and kinds of meat. A cook who would excel in her profession, ought, day and night, to study this doctrine of coherence and natural affinity. Who would dissever from the round of salted beef, the carrots, greens, or cabbage, which be- come part and parcel of it as soon as it reaches the pot! If, however, from reasons of economy, it is wished to pre- serve the liquor for other purposes, a quantity of it may be put into a separate vessel, and the greens boiled there. The pot may have the top-fat taken off to enrich the water in which the greens are boiled, without any loss of pot-liquor for soup; and the cook's objection, that green vegetables spoil the meat, is thus obviated.