165 TO GRILL FRESH SALMON STEAKS OR CUTLETS. directed. Place the head and tail on the strainer, and put them in a fish-kettle of fast-boiling water, with a handful of salt and some vinegar—though vinegar hurts the colour. Let this boil three minutes; lift the strainer, and lay on the slices; take off whatever scum arises. Boil from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to the thickness. Place the head and tail on end on a napkin, in the middle of the fish- plate, and dish the slices neatly round them, or, at choice, dish by laying the fish in its natural shape as French cooks do slices. Sauce and garnishing as in the last receipt. This is boiled salmon in its utmost perfection. 112. To Grill Fresh Salmon Steaks or Cutlets. This mode of dressing, though unsuitable for a large dinner, is the way in which two or three, or the solitary epicure, best relishes this luxury. Split the Salmon and take out the bone,* without mangling the fish. Cut fillets of from two to three inches in breadth. Dry these in the folds of a cloth, but do not beat or press them. Have a clear fire, and a bright-barred gridiron, rubbed with chalk to prevent the fish from sticking; the slices if not quite dry may be dusted with flour; turn with steak-tongs. Place the gridiron aslant backwards to let the oil pass away, which, if it blaze, spoils the steaks. This, like all broils^ must be served very hot. The slices may be covered with the folds of a hot napkin.—Anchovy or Shrimp sauce.—Ohs, A small fish is cut in circular slices of about an inch in thickness. French cooks first marinade^ i. e. steep the salmon cutlets in oil, seasonings, and shred fine herbs ; baste them while on the gridiron with the marinade-liquor; take off the skin before serving, and serve with dressed cucumber or caper- sauce. This is good practice,—all save taking off the skin. To Fry Salmon.—Cut, fry, and serve thin fillets or slices as above.—See No. 118. 113. To Bake Salmon or Salmon Trout. Place the fish in a deep pan, and stick plenty of bits of * A salmon-bone with some rough pickings left makes an admirable Grill. The bone cut out of a Mppered salmon should be left rough for this purpose. Seasoned with pepper and salt, broiled and buttered, it is quite an epicure's breakfast morsel. A kipper originally meant a black fish. These were salted. Now the very finest salmon are thus managed, and called kippers.—See No. 115.