CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 422 olive-oil, to which more and more is gradually added till the suet becomes like butter. Use it exactly as butter in 771^ Lard also may be employed, using half lard and half beef- suet pounded with flour. It makes excellent paste if to be eaten hot. Cold paste is best made of butter only. French Puff-paste of Lard or Butter,—To twelve ounces of flour take two of lard, and two yolks of eggs, with a little salt. Work the paste, and let it rest a few minutes, then roll it out as pufF-paste, and cover it lightly with lard (about the consistence of soft pomatum), with a paste-brush. Fold it in three layers, and roll it. Let it rest a few more minutes and brush again with more lard, and proceed as 771 until twelve ounces of lard have been used with sixteen of flour. This receipt is useful where butter is either dear or not to be had from heat of climate; a little sugar and lemon-juice are proper for paste if for fruit. — Ohs, An excellent light crust is made of the fresh leaf of a fat pig, by clearing it of skin and fibres, and, having well washed it, incorporating it with flour and making a buttery paste. French Paste for Hot Pies,—To thirteen ounces of flour put, in the usual manner, six ounces of butter, two yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, and a half-teacupful of water. Work it up, kneading between the hands. 771^ To make Fine Puff-paste^ the French Feuilletage^ or Many-leaved Crust,—Use the finest flour; fresh, dry, and if you like, sifted. If for very rich crust, take equal weight, or at least two-thirds of the weight, of fresh, or better, of freshly-salted butter. Prepare the butter, except one- eighth (which may be kept for minutely crumbling down among the flour), by washing, if salted; and in every case by pressing out all moisture, rolling it up like a flattened ball in a thin cotton cloth, and squeezing. In every case the butter should be quite cold and firm ; and in warm wea- ther should be set over ice, or surrounded by the coldest water: The butter ready and cool, lay the flour on the cold slab or table. Crumble the left butter into it, and making a well in the centre, break in the proportion of two yolks of eggs to the pound, with a little salt, and the necessary quan- tity of the coldest water; knead up the paste quickly and lightly, dredging flour on the slab and the roller that nothing may be dabbled or lost while you roll out the dough square