CHAP. IV. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 434 insipid, tlie parings and cores may be boiled with a stick of cinnamon and sugar, and the strained liquor added to the pie. Apple-pie is often liked hot. It is eaten with plain cream, made cream, or Creme Patissiere^ No. 711^ It was wont to be buttered; and this is still the practice in some provincial situations in England, though buttered pease, and buttered apple-pie, for reasons which we do not comprehend, have latterly come to be considered ungenteel, if not abso- lutely vulgar. Buttering is performed by putting a piece of fresh butter into the hot pie when it is cut open. Apples must be thrown into plenty of water as they are pared, or they will become discoloured. 805. Hipe Fruit-Pies—Black cherries and currants^ dam- sons^ plums of all kinds, currants^ and raspberries and cran- berries^ apricots^ and gooseberries^ suitably mixed or alone, are all made into fruit-pies. Place the fruit, picked and washed, in a flattish pie-dish, raising it high in the middle. Allow enough of sugar, and cover with a rich light paste, which fruit-pies require more than those made of meat. 806. Green Gooseherry-Pie.—Top and tail as many unripe gooseberries as will fully fill your dish. Line the dish, or merely border it with paste. Put in the fruit, and plenty of moist sugar, and cover the pie with good puff-paste. The gooseberries may be first stewed in the sugar.—Obs. All fruit, as it goes on to maturity, requires more sugar till nearly ripe. 807. Rhubarb-Pie—VqqI off the skin from stalks of young rhubarb, and cut them slantways into bits of about an inch and a half. Some kinds need no peeling. Stew them slowly in sugar, or in butter and a little water, till soft; sweeten, and make them into a covered pie or open tart.—Obs. Gooseberry, apple, rhubarb, and other fruit-pies, eat very well cold; or the fruit may be stewed and sweetened for common use, without further preparation. Fresh good cream is a very great improvement to all fruit-pies and tarts. The next best thing is plain custard. In England the cream is often sweetened, thickened with beat yolks of eggs, made, in short into a custard, and poured over the fiuit. In Scotland, cream for tarts is usually served either plain or merely whisked; and served whipt over the cold stewed fruit laid in crust.