COD^S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. 171 If fish are to be boiled in any liquid except water au hleu, or fish bouillon, let it be in some light sub-acid wine, or good sharp cider: cream, save for the sauce, is all but Hottentotish in the preparation of fish. See No. 136, and Fish rechauffee^ No. 159. 122. To Dress a Cod's Head and Shoulders,* Scotch Fashion. This was a great affair in its day. It is still a formidable, nay, even a respectable-looking dish, with a kind of bulky magnificence, which, at Christmas-tide, appears imposing at the head of a long board. Have a quart of good stock ready for the sauce, made of beef or veal, seasoned with onion, carrot, and turnip. Rub the fish (a deep-sea or rock- cod) with salt over night, taking off the scales, but do not wash it. When to be dressed, wash it clean, then quickly dash hot water over the upper side, and with a blunt knife remove the slime which will ooze out, taking great care not to break the skin. Do the same to the other side of the fish; then place it on the drainer, wipe it clean, and plunge it into a fish-kettle of boiling water, with a handful of salt and a half-pint of vinegar. It must be entirely covered, and will take from thirty to forty minutes' slow boiling. Set it to drain, slide it carefully on a deep dish, and glaze with beat eggs, over which strew fine bread-crumbs,f grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Stick numerous bits of butter over the fish, and place it before a clear fire, strewing more crumbs, grated lemon-peel, and minced parsley over it, and basting with the butter. In the meanwhile thicken the stock with butter kneaded in flour, and strain it, adding to it half a hundred oysters nicely picked and bearded, and a glassful of their liquor, two glasses of Madeira or sherry, the juice of a lemon, the hard meat of a boiled lobster cut * Cod comes into season about Michaelmas, when the other large fish are going out. The Dogger-bank cod are the most esteemed in the London market; but very excellent fish are now sent from Orkney and many other parts. _ Cod of good quality are salted in the Hebrides, and a little has been done in Ireland ; but the greater supply of salted fish still comes from Newfoundland. The best cod are such as, with good size and shape, have yellow spots upon a pure skin. Many persons justly prefer both salt and fresh Ling to Cod; Tush is much superior to either of them, but is found in small quantities. t Modern cooks at this stage shin cod and haddocks. All true gour- mands detest/a?/e<^ fish. Where not nicely crumbed and browned they are absolutely horrific and spectral.—P. T,