CHAP. ly. PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 444 the juice of pies does not boil over, or the liquid contents of puddings; and remember that sugar, butter, and suet be- come liquids ia boiling. It is from their excess that puddings often break. Be, therefore, rather sparing of sugar; for if you have much syrup you must have more eggs and flour, which make puddings heavy. It is often the quantity of sugar which makes tapioca and arrow-root, boiled plain, troublesome to keep in shape when moulded. Rice or other grain puddings must not be allowed to hoil in the oven before setting^ or the ingredients will separate and never set; so never put them into a very hot oven. As a rule we may assume that such flavouring ingredients as lemon grate and juice, vanilla, and cocoa-nut are more admired in modern puddings than cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. Care must be taken to mix batter-puddings smoothly. Let the dried flour be gradually mixed with a very little of the milk, as in making mustard or starch, and afterwards, in nice cookery, strain the batter through a coarse sieve. Puddings are lighter boiled than baked. Raisins, prunes, and damsons for pud- dings must be carefully stoned; or sultanas may be used in place of other raisins. Currants must be picked, and plunged in hot water, rubbed in a floured cloth and plumped and dried before the fire; almonds must be blanched and sliced; and in mixing grated bread, pounded biscuit, etc., with milk, pour the milk on them hot, and cover the vessel for an hour, which is both better and easier than boiling. Suet must be quite fresh and free of fibres. Mutton-suet for puddings is lighter than that of beef; but marrow, when it can be obtained, is richer than either. A baked pudding for com- pany has often a paste-border or a garnishing of blanched and sliced almonds about it, but these borders are merely matters of ornament; if moulded, puddings may also be garnished in various ways, as with bits of currant-jelly. The best seasonings for plain batter-puddings are conserve of Seville orange, lemon-rind, lemon-brandy, or orange-flower- water. Spirits, and even wine, are every day less used, both from taste and economy.—Pudding-Sauces^ see pp. 252, 447. The sweetness and flavour of puddings must in most cases be determined by individual taste. Sugar can be added at table. Iced Puddings are the greatest modern discovery in this class of dishes.—See Nos. 874, 8741 832. A Common small Plum-Pudding.—Take six ounces