400 CHAP. m. SCOTCH AND OTHEK NATIONAL DISHES. half of them, and we consider this an improvement, greens especially, if tender and long boiled, and not too finely shred. Reject the coarse green of the leeks. Prunes and raisins used to be put into this soup. The practice is nearly obsolete.* 727. Balnamoon SkinJcj an Irish Soup.—Clean and cut into pieces two or three young cocks or fowls. Have one larger, neatly trussed as for boiling. Boil the cut fowls till the broth is as strong and good as they can make it; but do not overboil the uncut fowl. Strain the broth, season it with parsley, chives, and young onions chopped, and, if in season, a few green pease. Add white pepper and salt, and either serve the whole fowl in the tureen, or separately.— Obs. This soup may be improved by adding, before serving, a liaison of two beat eggs, and a little cream. It is a variety of the Scottish Friar's Chicken, and of dishes, which are, with whatever modification of seasonings, familiar wherever a backward system of husbandry renders poultry plentiful, and good shambles-meat scarce. 728. Scottish Hotch-Potch.—Make the stock of sweet fresh lamb or mutton. Grate the zest of two or three large young carrots ; slice down as many more. Slice down also sweet young turnips, young onions, lettuce, and parsley. Have a full quart of these things when finely shred, another of young green pease and sprigs of cauliflower. Put in the vegetables, withholding half the pease till near the end of the process. Cut down two or three pounds of ribs of lamb into small steaks, trimming off superfluous fat, and put them to the stock. Boil well and skim carefully; add the remaining pease, white pepper, and salt; and w^lien thick enough, serve the cutlets in the tureeen with the hotch-potch.—Obs. The excellence of this favourite dish depends mainly on the * At a formal banquet given bj the late Lord Holland, Tallejrand, who "was as celebrated for gastronomy as diplomacy, inquired "earnestly" of Lord Jeffrey the nature of " Cocky-leekie^''' and wished particularly to know if 'prunes [French plums) were essential to its scientific concoction. Mr Jeffrey was unable to give the Ex-bishop and Prince any satisfactory information; and the sagacious diplomatist, with his usual tact, settled for himself, that prunes should be boiled in the famous historical soup, warmly patronized by " gentle King Jamie," but taken out before thepotage was sent to table. It is not improbable that his Excellency gave his own cook orders accordingly, for the preparation of a soup which Scotland probably owed to France long before the Union of the crowns. Cock-a-leeTcie d la Talleyrand is worthy of trial, especially as conservative English cooks still affirm that this is the practice of Scotland.