54 PKOEESSOK HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTOHON. pterygoid processes in the direction towards the antorbital foramen. The base of the zygomatic process supporting the articulation of the lower jaw (m) is brought much nearer the occiput than in the Mylodon, and is separated from the petromastoid by a deep excavation, perforated by wide apertures that seem to communicate with the tym- panic cavity. The articular surface for the lower jaw is well defined, narrow in the axis of the skull, much extended transversely, gently convex in both directions. In the skull of a recent Armadillo (Dasypus octocinctus) the articulation for the lower jaw is almost flat, and on a level with the roof of the posterior perforated cavity. In the Prio- nodon [Dasypus gif/as, Cuv.) the articular surface is slightly concave, and extends longi- tudinally forwards from the posterior cavity. The zygomatic process of the malar bone bounds the outer and fore part of the surface, and extends forwards in the form of a laterally compressed plate of bone, and in the Das. sexcinctus forms a slight angular projection below the antorbital perforation. In the Glyptodon, the articulation for the lower jaw more resembles that in ordinary Pachyderms, and is thus conformable with the deviation from the Edentate structure manifested by the bones of the foot. But the most remarkable characteristic of the skull of the Glyptodon, by which it differs from the existing Armadillos and approaches the Megatherioids, is the long and strong process (n) which descends from the base or origin of the zygomatic process of the maxillary bone. This process is compressed, but in the opposite direction to that in the Mylo- don., viz. from before backwards, instead of from side to side; it measures five inches in length from the antorbital perforation, one inch and three-fourths in breadth across the middle: the outer margin is entire, and as if folded back; the lower half of the inner margin is slightly notched, the extremity of the process curves backwards. Both ante- rior and posterior surfaces bear strong marks of the attachment of muscular fibres. “ The small remaining portion of the maxillary bone on the inner side of this process shows portions of three deep sockets (o o) of the same diameter throughout, indicating the implantation of molar teeth by a single excavated base, and showing two longitudinal ridges on both the outer and the inner side, which proves the teeth to have had the same fluted exterior which they present in the lower jaw, and of which the generic name of Glyptodon is expressive. The fractured anterior part of the basis cranii shows the large cavities for the olfactory bulbs, and the remains of a very extensive cribriform plate, the organ of smell being very largely developed. “ The posterior, or occipital surface of the skull slopes forward from the plane of the occipital foramen at an angle of 45°; in the small existing Armadillos it is vertical; in the Glyptodon it is divided by a strong median vertical ridge, and separated by a sinuous thicker transverse ridge from the upper surface of the skull. The posterior half of this region of the cranium is marked by the ridges bounding the origins of the temporal muscles, which almost meet along the middle or sagittal line. Part of the lambdoidal suture is seen at p; the other cranial sutures are obliterated. The temporal fossae are pierced by numerous large vascular foramina. The anterior parts of the temporal ridges (q) diverge to the posterior angle of the supraorbital ridges. The frontal or inter-