PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. 67 cesses, and bifurcates externally, so that one of its apertures ends above, and the other below, a stout bar of bone (Plate VIII. tig. 6, a), nearly an inch thick, which ends poste- riorly in a raised curved ridge, forming the anterior boundary of a semicircular groove. The spinal canal in the thirteenth vertebra is, as I have said, oval in shape, the long diameter of the oval (1*5 inch in length) being vertical, the short diameter (IT inch) transverse. As, in the anterior part of the lumbo-sacral region, this canal has a very different shape, it is probable that two or three vertebrae are wanting in this portion of the spinal column. The Sacrum and Coccygeal Vertebras.—The “ sacrum,” composed of anchylosed lumbar, proper sacral, and coccygeal vertebra, contains at fewest twelve, and perhaps thirteen vertebra. The centra of the two hindermost lumbar vertebra and of the two proper sacral vertebra, which follow them (Plate IX. fig. 2), are thin and broad bony plates, flat above, and slightly concave from side to side below, exhibiting a most marked con- trast to the semicylindrical form of the same part in the hindermost of the thirteen vertebra described above. The plane of the plate formed by the centra of the anchy- losed lumbar vertebra is inclined, upwards and forwards, to pass into the general curve of the dorso-lumbar region. The plane of the centra of the two succeeding sacral ver- tebra, on the other hand, is horizontal; and it is obvious, from the characters of the rest of the sacrum, that the centra of the following vertebra, to the end of the sacral region, were arranged in an almost semicircular curve, the chord of which is about 18 inches long (Plate IX. fig. 3). The posterior face of the hindermost coccygeal vertebra (Plate IX. fig. 1, a) is broad, oval, and very slightly concave, like the face of an ordi- nary vertebral centrum ; but the centrum of the penultimate coccygeal vertebra is much flatter and narrower; and this flattening and narrowing become still more marked in the centrum of the antepenultimate vertebra and of that which precedes it, or the fourth from the end. From this point to the two anterior sacral vertebrae the floor of the sacral canal is completely broken away, but there can be little doubt that the missing- centra were represented by a broad and flat bony plate. The neural arches are but imperfectly preserved, except in the lumbar region and the anterior part of the sacrum. They are thin, and are separated by large intervertebral foramina. In the lumbar vertebrae these foramina pass downwards and backwards into grooves which mark the sides of the central plate. Well-defined depressions upon the sides of the sacral crest lead upwards and backwards to the canals which pass between that crest and the ilia. The four last coccygeal intervertebral foramina are still larger, and indicate the passage of large nerves to the muscles moving the tail. The spinous processes of all the vertebrae which enter into the sacrum, up to the fourth from the end inclusively, are anchylosed together into a long and strong osseous crest (Plate IX. figs. 3 & 4), which expands above, so as to present a broad and very rugged superior face. This crest is 8 inches high in front, but slowly diminishes as it follows