PEOFESSOK HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. 59 The Atlas.—Of this bone the mutilated right half is represented in Plate VII. fig. 1, giving the anterior, and fig. 2 the posterior aspect of the fragment. The specimen exhibits rather more than the right half of the lower arch, and rather less than the corresponding portion of the upper arch of the bone. The right lateral mass, with its anterior and posterior articular facets, is almost entire, but the transverse process is broken off close to its origin. The inferior arch is a solid bar of bone with a straight upper and a convex lower contour; and somewhat thicker in the middle, both from above downwards and from before backwards, than at the sides. A section taken through the median plane of this part of the bone would have the shape of a spherical triangle; the lower or horizontal face convex, the anterior slightly concave, and the posterior and upper also concave. The middle of the posterior and upper face of the inferior arch presents an oval arti- cular facet (fig. 2, a) for the odontoid process of the axis, which, when entire, must have measured about 1-6 inch in width by 0-8 inch in antero-posterior length. It is slightly concave, both from before backwards and from side to side, and is bounded by a well- defined though narrow ridge. The outer end of this facet is half an inch distant from the inner and lower edge of the articular surface for the odontoid vertebra, upon the lateral mass of the atlas (fig. 2, h). This is a reniform surface with its inner and anterior side concave, while the outer and posterior aspect is convex. Its long axis is almost vertical, while the plane of its surface, which is a little concave both from above down- wards and from side to side, is directed obliquely inwards and forwards. Lines drawn through the shorter axes of the two articular facets would intersect one another at a point very slightly in front of the anterior margin of the inferior arch. The foramen for the vertebral artery is situated on the outer side of the facet, opposite the junction of its middle and upper thirds, and nearly on the same level as a tubercle for the trans- verse ligament, situated on the inner side. The foramen (fig. 2, c) leads into a canal which passes directly forwards, widening as it goes, and traverses the root of the transverse process. In front of this it presents a large oblique aperture, by which, however, it does not terminate. Instead of ending, it makes an abrupt turn upwards through the substance of the superior arch of the atlas, parallel with, and equidistant from, the anterior and posterior margins of that part, and ends by an oblique aperture in the outer part of the roof of the cavity of the atlas, and nearer the occipital than the odontoid edge. The upper face of the lateral mass of the atlas presents an elongated, irregular, transverse aperture, which communicates with the canal, and from the anterior and posterior margins of which broad and shallow grooves are continued. The articular surface for the occipital condyle upon the anterior face of the lateral mass of the atlas (fig. 1) is much more concave from above downwards than that just described ; and as it is neither concave nor convex from side to side, the surface may be regarded as a segment of a hollow cylinder, answering to rather less than half the circumference of such a figure. When the inferior arch of this atlas is made horizontal, this articular