PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. 63 second dorsal vertebra. These, however, are not carried upon distinct processes. The great spinous process seems completely to fill up the interval which properly exists between the postzygapophyses. The posterior face of this process is slightly excavated in the middle of its lower half. Its sides are also a little concave, so that the top swells out into a sort of knob with overhanging margins. The posterior part of the floor of the trivertebral bone is broken away; but the hinder face of each lateral mass exhibits a transversely elongated articular surface ($, 5), concave from above downwards, so as to resemble a segment of a hollow cylinder, the axis of which is directed from within outwards and very slightly backwards. The inferior face of the trivertebral bone presents the arched surface, flatter behind than in front, of the continuously ossified central portions or bodies of the vertebrae, and, external to these, two pairs of apertures which perforate this face of the bone at its outer margin. The anterior of these apertures is very much larger than the poste- rior, and corresponds with the inner end of the middle transverse process, opening just behind the inner end of the first rib. Strictly speaking, the foramen seen upon the front face of the bone (Plate VII. fig. 5, d) forms one of this series of foramina (all of which are the terminations of short passages leading into the spinal canal); so that, as upon the upper, so on the under surface of the trivertebral bone, there are three pairs of foramina in communication with the spinal canal, and of these the middle pair are, in each series, the largest. The homologies of the three vertebrte which compose the trivertebral bone are deter- mined by the implantation of the head of the first rib into the great fossa between the lateral processes of the first and second. The vertebra which yields the anterior wall of the fossa is clearly the last cervical, and that which furnishes the posterior wall is the first dorsal. Hence the trivertebral bone is composed of the last, or seventh, cervical and the first and second dorsal vertebrae. The remaining Uorso-lumbar Vertebrae.—Of these vertebrae thirteen are preserved. The anterior twelve have plainly been immoveably united together into a continuous arched tunnel or tubular bridge of bone, partly by anchylosis and partly by the manner in which their apposed surfaces interlock (Plate VIII. figs. 1-7). The four anterior vertebrae (figs. 1, d. 1. 3, 4, 5, 6) are so completely anchylosed together that almost all traces of their original distinctness are lost. Persistent sutures, of a cha- racter intermediate between a “harmonia” and a serrated suture, separate the fourth vertebra (d. 1. 6) from the fifth, and the latter from the sixth; but the sixth and the seventh (d. 1. 9) are completely fused into one bone. Between the eighth and ninth vertebrae a suture is interposed, and also between the ninth and the tenth, at least on the left side. The tenth and the eleventh (d.l. 13) are completely anchylosed above, while the suture seems to have persisted below*. * It is convenient to speak of the first, second, dec. of the thirteen vertebrae which succeed the trivertebral bone; but it must be recollected that the first of these is the third of the dorso-lumbar series, the second the fourth dorso-lumbar, and so on, the number of any one of these vertebrae in the dorso-lumbar series being MDCCCLXV. L