PROFESS OB HUXLEY OX THE OSTEOLOG-Y OE THE GEXUS G-LYPTODOH. 41 of the College of Surgeons—a circumstance which justifies the belief that they all belonged to one and the same animal, and gives them a peculiar value, the more especially as there can be little doubt of the specific identity of the new specimen with the animal to which the skull ascribed by Professor Ower to Glyptodon cl (wipes belongs. I have thus been enabled to add to what was already known of Glyptodon clavipes, descriptions of the most essential peculiarities of the fore part of the skull, the entire palate, the mandible, the greater part of the spinal column, the pelvis, and the com- plete fore and hind feet, and to announce the existence, in this animal, of a conforma- tion of the spinal column hitherto unknown in the Mammalian, and, indeed, in the Vertebrate series—the last cervical and two anterior dorsal vertebrae being anchylosed together into a single osseous mass articulated by ginglymi with the rest of the vertebral column. As another very remarkable peculiarity of this genus, I have pointed out the extraordinary characters of the pelvis, and the fact that the cuneiform bone in the carpus articulates with two metacarpal bones, the fourth and fifth, while the unciform does not articulate with the fifth at all. Since the appearance of my paper in the ‘ Proceedings of the Eoyal Society,’ and in- deed not until the months of May and June 1863, M. Serres, apparently unacquainted with what had been done in these matters, has redescribed the joint between the second and third dorsal vertebrae, though he appears to be still unaware of the existence of the ‘ trivertebral bone.’ In addition, M. Serres makes known the interesting circumstance, that the posterior edge of the manubrium of the sternum, anchylosed (as M. Nodot had pointed out, though M. Serres does not refer to him) with the first pair of ribs, pre- sents two concave articular facets, by which it was united with the rest of the sternum, which must have presented two convex surfaces adapted to the foregoing in order to allow of a movement of flexion. M. Serres is of opinion that this mechanism is intended to allow of the retraction of the head: “ II est done vraisemblable qu’au moment du danger, peut-etre meme que dans le repos ou le sonuneil, le Glyptodon flechissait le col pour ramener la tete sous la coupole de la carapace”*. In his second communication to the Academy, M. Serres still speaks of the “ anchy- losis of the first two dorsal vertebrae” onlyjv Professor Burmeister, Director of the Museum at Buenos Ayres, has been good enough to communicate to me a letter, addressed by him to the Editor of the 4 Nation Arjentina’ on the 5th July, 1863, commenting upon a lecture upon the Glyptodon which I delivered before the President and Council of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, which was published in the Medical Times and Gazette for the 28th of February and * “ Note sur deux articulations ginglymoides nouvelles existant chez le Glyptodon, la premiere entre la deuxieme et la troisieme vertebre dorsale, la seconde entre la premiere et la deuxieme piece du sternum. Par M. Serres” (Comptes Rendus, May 11, 1863). f “ Deuxieme Xote sur le developpement de 1’articulation vertebro-sternalc du Glyptodon, et les mouvemens de flexion et d’extension de la tete chez cet animal fossile. Tar M. Serres” (Comptes Rendus, June 1, 1863). h 2