PROFESSOR HUXLEY OX TIIE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. 39 viz. Glyptodon clavipes, G. reticulcdus, and G. ornatus; a fourth species, G. tuberculatus, is based upon purchased specimens, from the Pampas of Buenos Ayres, the precise locality of which is not stated. The fact that the dermal ossicles of three species of Glyptodon were found in the same locality as the bones described, and the absence of any evidence demonstrating the association of the ossicles ascribed to G. clavipes, rather than those attributed to the other species, with the bones, throws, it will be observed, some doubt upon the certainty of that ascription, and opens the question whether the bones really belonged to one form of carapace or to another. Of the Plates which illustrate the ‘ Catalogue,’ the first contains a side view, partly restored, of the Glyptodon clavipes; the second, views of the carapace and tail; the third, of the skull; the fourth and fifth, of parts of the carapace; and the description of the Plates comprises accounts of the structure of the sk^ll and of the tail, parts which had not been received until after the printing of the body of the catalogue. In what locality the skull and the tail were obtained, and upon what evidence they are ascribed to the particular species, G. clavipes, is not stated. The lower jaw and the defensive bony covering of the skull in plate 1 “ are restored on the authority of an original sketch of an entire specimen of this species of Glyptodon transmitted to Sir Woodbine Parish from Buenos Ayres.” The bones of the fore foot are given in outline after D’Alton. On the 8th of June, 1846, the late Johannes Muller read a short paper to the Ber- lin Academy upon the bones of the leg and hind foot described by I)’Alton, which had been worked out and mounted by the help of Professor Owen’s memoir. This paper, accompanied by an excellent plate, was published in 1849 *. The number of the ‘ Comptes Bendus’ for August 28, 1855, contains a “Description d’un nouveau genre d’Edente fossile renfermant plusicurs especes voisines des Glypto- dons, et classification methodique de treize especes appartenant a ces deux genres,” by M. L. Nodot, Director of the Museum of Natural History at Dijon; and this essay, enlarged and illustrated with plates, appeared two years later in the ‘ Memoires de 1’Academie Imperiale de Dijon,’ Deuxieme Serie, tom. v. 1857'f'. M. Nodot, in his introductory remarks, states that Vice-Admiral Dupetit brought back from Monte Video, in 1846, a great number of fossil bones which had been collected by Dr. Numez on the banks of the river Lujan, and were given to the Vice-Admiral by the orders of the Dictator Rosas. Admiral Dupetit presented most of these remains to the Museum of the Jardin des Plantes in Paris; but dying before * “ Bemerkungen iiber die Fussknochen des fossilen Giirtelthiers (Glyptodon clavipes, Ow.),’’ Abhand- lungen d. Konigl. Akad. d. Wissenschaftcn, 1849. t Under the title “ Description d’un nouveau genre d’Edente fossile renfermant plusicurs especes voisines du Glyptodon, suivic d’une nouvelle metliode de classification applicable a toute l’histoire naturelle et speciale- ment a ces animaux. Avec un atlas de douze planches lithographiees.” MDCCCLXV. H