PROFESSOR HUXLEY OX THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GEXUS GLYPTODOX. 61 The posterior face of the bone exhibits, below, a large round aperture (fig. 7, a), leading into a passage which traverses the posterior canal just described, and debouches into the middle one. Immediately beneath this foramen is a small concave articular surface, apparently a fragment of a much larger one. Superiorly and internally the posterior face of the bone presents a deep fossa (fig. 7, a), bounded above and internally by a concave articular facet, the long axis of which is directed almost at right angles to the long axis of the bone. The facet in question I take to correspond with the posterior oblique process or “ post-zygapophysis ” of the fourth cervical vertebra. The foramen on the posterior- face is the aperture of the canal for the vertebral artery. The facet below it is part of an articular surface upon the inferior or “ capitular ” division of the transverse process, which is characteristic of the cervical vertebrae in Armadillos; and the middle and poste- rior canals are the intervertebral foramina for the third and fourth cervical nerves. The upper and inner foramina and canals represent the remains of the primitive inter- spaces between the several arches. The anchylosed spinous processes, and the bodies of the three coalesced vertebrae, are completely broken away, so that nothing can be said regarding their characters. The fifth and sixth Cervical Vertebrae.—No remains of the fifth and sixth cervical ver- tebrae have been discovered among the bones sent by Senor Terrero. The “ Trivertebral bone” or anchylosed seventh Cervical and first and second Dorsal Ver- tebrae (Plate VII. figs. 3, 4, 5, 6).—The three vertebrae which enter into the composition of this singular bone are very much depressed from above downwards, so that the neural canal is more than twice as wide as it is high; while the greatest depth of the whole bone, leaving the spinous process out of consideration, is hardly a fourth of its width. The inferior face of the bone is deeply concave from side to side; and as the floor of the neural canal is also concave, the part which corresponds with the centra of the anchylosed vertebrae has the form of a broad thin arched plate, thinnest in the middle. The supe- rior arches of the vertebrae, which constitute the roof of the trivertebral bone, follow, in a general way, the contour of its floor; but they are much thicker; and, posteriorly, the roof of the trivertebral bone is produced, upwards and backwards, into a very thick short process, which probably represents the spinous processes of the two anterior dorsal vertebrae. The lateral parts of the trivertebral bone, which represent the anchylosed transverse processes of the vertebrae, are very thick and stout, especially in front. Viewed from above, or laterally, they are seen to be marked out by excavations into three portions, one for each primitive vertebral constituent of the bone. With the lateral excavations the heads of the two anterior ribs articulate. So much for the general characters of this bone. A front view (Plate VII. fig. 5) exhibits the following features, worthy of more particular description. The lateral mass, which represents the transverse process of the first of the three vertebrae, presents an elongated oval articular facet («), convex from above downwards and looking almost