40 PROFESSOR IIUXLET OX THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GEXUS GLYPTODOX. he had disposed of all, his widow bestowed two boxes full of detached dermal ossicles on the Dijon Collection. Out of these, by dint of four months’ constant toil, M. Nodot reconstructed the carapace. Subsequent investigations in the store-rooms of the Jardin des Plantes revealed almost the whole of the tail, and many important parts of the skeleton, of what M. Nodot believed to be the same individual animal, mixed up, however, with fragments of Mylo- don, Megatherium, and Scelidotherium. Besides these, M. Nodot found the tolerably complete extremity of the tail of another individual of the same genus in the Geological Gallery, and the right half of a lower jaw with the teeth, which he judged to belong to this individual. The bones which M. Nodot, guided as it would seem chiefly by their colour, identi- fies as belonging to the same individual with the carapace, are, “ the lateral and poste- rior part of the cranium, the occiput, the meatus auditorius, the zygomatic arch and its long apophysis, three alveoli, and the sagittal crest; the atlas, the axis, the vertebra of the fifth ring of the tail; the two femora entire; the tibiae and fibulae anchylosed; the calcanea; the astragali; the other tarsal hones; the left metatarsus; the three external toes of the left hind foot; the left radius; the ungual phalanx of one of the digits of the fore foot; and the ungual phalanx of an internal toe of the hind foot.” The cara- pace and the tail are fully described by M. Nodot, who considers their peculiarities sufficient to justify him in establishing for these remains the new genus Schistopleuron. How far he was justified in so doing is a point which must be discussed at the end of this memoir; but there can be no question that “ Schistopleuron ” is one of the lloplo- phoridce, closely allied to Glyptodon clavipes; and hence M. Nodot’s descriptions of the mandible, sternum, and femur constitute substantial additions to our knowledge of the organization of that family. The mandible is unlike the sketch furnished to Professor Owen and adopted by him, but very like that which will be described below. The first piece of the sternum and the first two ribs were so anchylosed together as to leave no trace of their primitive sepa- ration. On the 14th of November, 1862, 1 presented to this Society a “ Description of a new Specimen of Glyptodon, recently acquired by the Royal College of Surgeons of England,” which was published in the fifty-third Number of the 4 Proceedings of the Royal Society.’ The remains of the specimen, described briefly in this preliminary notice and, in full, in the present memoir, were presented to the Royal College of Surgeons by Senor Don Maximo Terrero, having been discovered in 1860 on the estate of his brother, Senor Don Juan N. Terrero, which is situated on the banks of the river Salado, in the district of Monte, in the Province of Buenos Ayres, and about eighty miles due south of the city of that name. No portions of any other animal, nor any duplicate bones, have been discovered among the osseous relics the description of which has been entrusted to me by the authorities