46 PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. convex inwards and concave outwards, and its inferior edge becomes much thickened as it curves outwards. It is attached to the maxilla by an anterior and superior thin, and a posterior and inferior, much thicker, plate of bone. Three passages, consequently, lie between the lateral walls of the nasal chamber and the ‘ scrolls ’ of the inferior turbinal,— an upper, long, narrow, and flattened from side to side; a middle, reniform in section; and an inferior, rounded in contour. The ridges upon the under surfaces of the nasal bones are continued, as I have stated above, into two thick plates of lamellated bone (Plate VI. fig. 1, c), which increase in depth from before backwards and pass into what are, probably, the superior ethmoidal turbinals. Their inner surfaces are flattened and parallel with the sides of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. Their outer surfaces, irregularly concave, are separated by but a narrow interval from the concave faces of the superior scrolls of the inferior turbinal bone. The posterior view of this fragmentary skull (Plate VI. fig. 2) affords a further insight into the arrangement of the bones which contribute to the formation of the olfactory chambers. The aspect presented is that of a transverse section taken just in front of the anterior end of the cranial cavity. The comparatively thin posterior part of the lamina jperpendicularis of the ethmoid (Eth) is seen abutting, above, against the frontal bones (Fr), and, below, becoming connected with the vomer (Vo), the posterior nearly straight free edge of which bone ends on the floor of the nostrils, at the level of the posterior margin of the third molar tooth, and thence slopes obliquely upwards and backwards. The ethmovomerine plate, however, is not free from all lateral connexion with the tur- binal bones, as is commonly the case; but a thin plate of bone, convex forwards and concave backwards, passes, on each side, from the vomer and the lamina perpendicularis to the lateral masses of the ethmoid. The inner surfaces of these are marked by broad flattened grooves, directed forwards and downwards, and separated by sharp ridges, which, in the recent state, were probably produced into delicate plates of bone. The lower portion of the lateral mass of the ethmoid, which represents the middle turbinal, is continuous with the inferior turbinal. The upper portion, representing the superior turbinal, is similarly continuous with the nasal turbinal. The superior tur- binal of each side forms the floor of a considerable cavity (Plate YI. fig. 2), which is walled in, externally and above, by the frontal bone, and represents a frontal sinus. A rounded dome (a) of bone projects backwards from the anterior wall of this cavity, which appears to communicate with the nasal fossae only by a few foramina, situated around the margins of the dome. The palate (Plate IV. fig. 3) is singularly narrow, seeing that its length, measured in a straight line, is about 9^ inches, while its width, between the outer edges of the alveoli, nowhere exceeds 3 inches. The longitudinal contour of the palate is concave anteriorly, convex posteriorly (Plate V. fig. 1). The crown of the arch of the anterior concave portion is opposite the hinder margin of the third alveolus; from thence the roof of the palate slopes, downwards and forwards, to the free premaxillary edge. From the same point it slopes, downwards and backwards, to the level of the hinder margin