PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. 55 orbital part of the upper surface of the cranium is broad and nearly flat, smooth, and slightly concave at its posterior half, slightly convex, rough, and perforated by vascular foramina at its anterior half. The most prominent parts above the orbits are most rugose, and indicate a more intimate adhesion to the superincumbent osseous dermal helmet. The lachrymal foramen (r) is pierced immediately in front of the anterior border of the orbit. “ The difference in the development of the temporal muscles manifested by the Glyp- todon and Mylodon in the position of the ridges in the fossil cranium indicates a corre- sponding difference in the power of mastication and in the density of the alimentary substances habitually selected by each species; the greater proportion of hard dentine in the teeth of the Glyptodon, and the greater number of the teeth, which appear to have been thirty-two, eight on each side of both jaws, coincide with the characters of the cranium, and support the inferences thence deducible.” It is necessary to make certain additions and qualifications to the above description. If we may be guided in the interpretation of the structure of the auditory region by the analogy of the existing Euphractus, the part which is there termed “ paroccipital” (Plate IV. fig. 5, li) includes the true mastoid; the “ perforated depression for the digastric muscle ” (Plate IV. fig. 5,f) is the external auditory meatus; and that which is termed “ petromastoid below the digastric depression ” (Plate IV. fig. 5, g) is part of the tympanic element of the temporal bone. It would appear that, as in Euphractus, the tympanic bone sends a process outwards and backwards, the extremity of which comes into contact with the pars mastoidea, and so bounds the external auditory meatus externally and below; while it leaves between itself, the proper tympanic bulla, and the pars mastoidea, an aperture which communicates with the external auditory meatus. The latter is remarkably small for so large an animal. The “ bulla,” into which it opened, is broken away; but it is probable that a considerable part, if not the whole, of the rugose spaces supposed above to be for the insertion of “ recti capitis antici,” mark the place where the thick inner walls of the bulke impinged upon the basioccipital. The fenestra rotunda is visible upon the under surface of the pars petrosa as an oval aperture 0T5 inch wide, the long axis of which is directed almost transversely to that of the skull. The fenestra ovalis, smaller, appears above the fenestra rotunda. The proper carotid canal probably traversed the anterior part of the internal wall of the bulla as in the Armadillos; the jugular vein most likely left the skull by a passage between the posterior and internal part of the bulla, the exoccipital, and the periotic. The large apertures perforating the roof of the cavity which is situated behind the articular facet for the lower jaw, do not communicate with the tympanic chamber. They are probably venous channels, and they communicate internally with the cavity of the skull. The articular facet for the lower jaw measures l-8 inch along its greater, and 06 inch along its lesser diameter; its edges are well defined, and it has a somewhat kidney-shape, the hilus of the kidney being turned downwards (Plate IV. figs. 4 & 5, e). The general MDCCCLXV. K