PEOFESSOE HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. the zygomatic processes of the two specimens do not differ more than those of opposite sides in the same specimen. 3. In the typical specimen the upper ends of the three anterior alveoli, on each side, are preserved; they occupy just the same space as the three anterior alveoli of the present specimen. 4. The presphenoid in the type has the same crest, and the inner ends of the optic foramina are precisely the same distance apart. When to these correspondences we add that the distance from the front edge of the nasals to the level of the posterior edges of the supraorbital prominences is the same in both skulls, and that the lower jaw of the new specimen would fit very fairly on to the typical skull, it will, I think, he admitted that there is sufficient evidence of the specific identity of the animals to which the two skulls belonged, and that the imperfections of the new specimen may be supplemented by the evidence afforded by the typical example. Further data as to the Cranial Structure of Glyptodon furnished by the typical skull. —Professor Owen (‘ Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia and Aves,’ p. 384) thus describes the fragmentary skull of the typical specimen of Glyptodon clavipes:— “ The occipital condyle (a) presents a convexity in the vertical direction, which describes more than a semicircle, and is slightly convex transversely, but is narrower in that direction than it is in the Mylodon: it is directed in the Glyptodon backwards and obliquely outwards. The occipital foramen (b) is very large and transversely elliptical ; its plane is inclined from below upwards and backwards 20° beyond the vertical line. The anterior condyloid foramen (c), though large, is relatively smaller than in the Mylo- don, and is situated close to the anterior border of the condyle. The depression for the digastric muscle (d) is perforated and separated from the condyle by a wider tract of the paroccipital (e) than in the Mylodon; and the petromastoid (f) below the digas- tric depression presents a rough convexity, bounded posteriorly by a transverse ridge of the paroccipital instead of the hemispherical depression for the articulation of the stylo- hyoid bone which characterizes the skull of the Mylodon. The basioccipital (g) pre- sents a median smooth concavity and two lateral rough depressions, which are continued on to the basisphenoid ([h), and indicate the insertion of very powerful ‘ recti-capitis antici majores’; the obliterated suture between the basioccipital and basisphenoid forms a rough transverse ridge. The inequalities of this part of the basal region of the skull present a striking contrast to the broad smooth and even tract which the same part forms in the Mylodon. The sides of the concave under surface of the basisphenoid are bounded by longitudinal ridges, which have been broken off in the specimen. The petrous bone terminates by a prismatic pointed process in the foramen lacerum (i), which here gives passage both to the jugular vein and internal carotid. The foramen ovale (k) is circular, and of the same size as the anterior condyloid foramen. The fora- men rotundum (/) is one inch and a half in advance of the foramen ovale, and opens with the commencement of a deep and long groove, which traverses the base of the