68 PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. the curve of the centra posteriorly, to 5 inches. The spinous process of the penultimate coccygeal vertebra is very thick, but it is broken short otf. It was probably not less than 4 inches high, and afforded a middle point of support for the dermal shield between the ischial protuberances (Plate IX. fig. 1). The sides of the two anterior sacral vertebra} and the corresponding part of the sacral crest are anchylosed with the inner edges of the iliac bones, so that only a narrow oval space, left between these parts, near the upper edge of the crest, and the small canals above mentioned, allow of any communication between the region in front of, and that behind the ilia. Behind this point the vertebra are devoid of transverse processes as far as the fourth from the end. But the antepenultimate had a long and slender transverse process on each side; the penultimate possesses an equally long but much stouter process, and the last coccygeal vertebra has extremely thick processes of the same length. The enlarged distal ends of these processes unite with one another and with the inner surfaces of the ischia (Plate IX. figs. 1, 2, 4). Caudal Vertebra.—No caudal vertebrae existed among the remains of this specimen of Glyptodon. Of the Vertebral Column as a whole.—It appears from the foregoing description that the atlas of the Glyptodon was moveable upon the odontoid vertebra; but that the latter was anchylosed with the third and fourth cervical vertebrae into one short bone, move- able upon the fifth cervical; of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebra no remains exist. The seventh cervical is anchylosed with the first and second dorsal into a single “ triver- tebral bone,” upon the front part of which the sixth cervical was certainly moveable; while the hinder part of it freely articulates with the third dorsal, so that the bone was capable of motion through a certain vertical arc. Beyond this point, as far as the fourteenth dorso-lumbar vertebra, the vertebra are so connected by complete, or partial, anchylosis, that it is impossible any motion should have taken place between them; and it is probable, though not so certain, that the fifteenth dorso-lumbar vertebra was similarly fixed. Between this and the two hindermost lumbar vertebra, which are completely anchy- losed together and with the sacral vertebra, there is a hiatus, but the condition of the two latter is not such as to lead to the supposition that the intermediate vertebra were less firmly united than they. The free cervical portion of the vertebral column must have been remarkably short, probably not exceeding 8 inches in length, and the cervical vertebra were most likely arranged in a nearly straight line. The trivertebral bone and the thirteen following dorso-lumbar vertebra, when articu- lated together, form one great curve, concave downwards or towards the visceral cavity, the curve being much sharper in the anterior than in the posterior part of the column. Measured along its curvature, this part of the vertebral column is about 35 inches long. At the anterior part of the sacral region the lumbar curve passes into the straight