37 PROFESSOR HUXLEY OX THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GEXUS GLYPTODOX. extracted in the preceding five years from the caverns of Brazil. Among the rest the writer describes:— “ 6°. Hoplophorus, a genus very remarkable for the heavy proportions of its species, for their gigantic size, as well as for the singular manner in which it combines different types of organization; however, their characters approximate them most nearly to the Sloth family. These strange animals were armed with a cuirass which covered all the upper part of the body, and which was composed of little hexagonal scutes, except in the middle of the body, where the scutes took a quadrate form, and were disposed in innumerable transverse bands. The bones of the trunk, as well as the great bones of the extremities, are also very similar to those of the Tatous, and particularly to those of the Cachicames; but the bones which compose the feet are so shortened and have their articular faces so flattened, that nothing similar is to be seen in any animal skeleton, and that it is inconceivable how such feet should have been used in digging. The form of the teeth also indicates that these singular animals could feed only on vegetable sub- stances, and it is to be supposed that they grazed after the fashion of the great Pachy- derms. However this may be, the Hoplophorus, of which M. Lund describes two species, present the peculiarity, hitherto regarded as special to the Sloth, of having a descending branch to the zygomatic arch. These two species were as large as an ox. Fragments of the skeletons have already been described by MM. Weiss and D’Alton of Berlin.”— Loc. tit. pp. 572, 573. A summary of Lund’s researches, despatched by him from Lagoa Santa on November 5, 1838, and published in the Annales des Sciences Naturelles for 1839, under the title of “ Coup d’ceil sur les especes eteintes de mammiferes de Bresil: extrait de quelques memoires presentes a l’Academie Boyale des Sciences de Copenhague,” gives a sub- stantially similar account of Hoplophorus. The species HopJoplwrus Selloi is identified with the cuirassed animal described and figured by Weiss and D’Alton. The sixth volume of the second series of the Transactions of the Geological Society contains an elaborate memoir by Professor Owen* on the bones associated with the dermal armour, figured by Mr. Clift in the memoir already cited; and on certain teeth, upon which the genus Glyptodon was founded by the same writer, in Sir Woodbine Parish's work on Buenos Ayresf. Professor Owen considers these remains to be specifically identical with those collected by Sellow, and described by Weiss and D’Alton ; so that if Lund was right in ascribing the same fossils to his genus Hoplophorus, Glyptodon becomes a synonym of the latter. In the memoir under consideration the general form and the minute structure of the * “ Descriptions of a tooth and part of the skeleton of the Glyptodon clavipes, a large quadruped of the eden- tate order, to which belongs the tessellated bony armour described and figured by Mr. Clift in the former volume of the Transactions of the Geological Society, with a consideration of the question whether the Megatherium possessed an analogous dermal armour.” By Richabd Owen, Esq., F.G.S., F.R.S. (Read March 23rd, 1839: an abstract of this paper appeared in Xo. 62 of the ‘ Proceedings.’) t 1 Buenos Ayres and the provinces of the Rio de la Plata,’ 1838, p. 178 e.