PEOFESSOE HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. 45 distant by the divarication of their anterior and internal angles. The thick and rough anterior edges of the prannaxilla; diverge obliquely from one another, both forwards and outwards and upwards and outwards, at a very obtuse angle, the interval between their anterior and external terminations amounting to 1/5 inch (Plate IV. fig. 3). Viewed laterally, the anterior ends of the nasal bones are seen to project about half an inch beyond the upper part of the lateral boundary of the nares, which slopes upwards and backwards with a slight forward concavity from the palatine portion of the preemaxilla (Plate V. fig. 1). The nasal cavity is divided, longitudinally, by a very strong osseous septum, which extends to the posterior end of the premaxillary fissure below, and to within 0'4 inch of the anterior contour of the nasal bones above (Plate VI. fig. 1). This septum terminates, in front and below, in a thin jagged edge; but above, it expands into a broad plate T2 inch wide, presenting a deep and broad notch above, into which, as I have previously stated, the conjoined median edges of the nasal bones are received. The septum is about 2-6 inches high in front; and of this height 2-2 inches, or about five-sixths, is formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, while the rest belongs to the vomer (Vo.). The ethmoidal plate is thin in front, thicker in the middle, and thin again posteriorly. The lower half is somewhat excavated on each side, from above downwards; it ends in an inferior edge, or rather surface, Op inch in diameter, anchylosed with the upper edge of the vomer, which has, in front, a corresponding thickness. The floor of the anterior part of the nasal cavity (i. e. as far as the level of the fourth alveolus) is concave from side to side, and convex from before backwards, its convexity corresponding with, but being much more strongly marked than, the concavity of the arched roof of the palate. At about 2 inches from the anterior boundary, a sharp longitudinal ridge commences upon the floor of each division of the nasal cavity, and extends backwards, for a distance of about 1^ inch, to the summit of the arch formed by that floor (Plate VI. fig. 1, a). Each ridge has a sloping convex external face, and a perpendicular concave inner face, 0-2 inch high. Between the latter and the side of the vomer, which is excavated for a corresponding distance from above downwards, lies a canal, a quarter of an inch wide, and open above and at its ends. The floor of each nasal chamber rises gradually into its lateral wall; and upon this, about three-fourths of an inch from the floor, appears a ridge which, at about an inch from the antero-lateral margin of the nostril (or just above the anterior end of the ridge on its-floor), passes backwards into the commencement of the inferior spongy bone (Plate VI. fig. 1, b). The root of attachment of this bone to the maxilla is, as usual, a narrow and thin, though long, bony plate, which on its free, or inner, side is continued into two scroll-like lamella?, an upper and a lower. The upper scroll comes much further forward than the lower, and is a stout plate of bone, slightly concave inwards and convex outwards. In front, it ends in a thin free edge. Superiorly, its margin is folded over outwards, and becomes anchylosed with the lateral wall of the nasal chamber. The inferior lamella commences about an inch behind the superior one. It is thick,