52 PROFESSOR HUXLEY OX THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. are inclined a little inwards as well as upwards, reversing the direction of the grinding- faces of the upper teeth. The mandibular teeth seem to have been nearly straight, without either external or internal concavity. Their long axes are inclined rather backwards as well as downwards. The alveolus of the fourth tooth, on the right side, is laid open; and I judge from it that the fourth tooth must have had a length of about 3^ inches; and the others might have had the same dimensions, except the first, which is certainly shorter, probably not exceeding 2^ inches. A considerable canal traverses the right ascending ramus from behind and below, up- wards, forwards, and outwards. Its external aperture, oval, 0-3 inch wide, lies upon the outer face of the ramus, on a level with the alveolar margin, and rather nearer its anterior than its posterior edge (Plate V. fig. 2). The inner end of the canal, which is 1-7 inch long, terminates in the broken cancellous structure, on the outer side of what appears to he the remains of the last alveolus. I cannot certainly discern any remains of a corresponding canal in the left ascending ramus. All that remains to be described in this skull is a fragment of the basis cranii, con- sisting of part of the anchylosed basi- and pre-sphenoid bones. The presphenoid (Plate VI. fig. 2) is remarkable for the strong crest or spine into which the middle of its upper surface is produced, and which was not improbably continued into an ethmoidal crista galli. The posterior apertures of the passages for the optic nerves are ellipses, with their long axes directed upwards and outwards; they are about a quarter of an inch in dia- meter, and are continued into two canals, which are traceable, outwards and upwards, for about an inch in the substance of the orbitosphenoids. On each side, below and external to the optic foramina, are strong grooves which formed the inner portion of the confluent foramen rotundum and sphenorbital fissure. The front face of the presphenoid and the roots of the orbitosphenoids are excavated by deep sphenoidal sinuses. Comparison of the Skvll of the present specimen with that of the typical Glyptodon clavipes.—The principal parts which exist in both skulls, and may therefore serve as terms of comparison, are, 1, the nasofrontal region of the roof of the skull; 2, the descending zygomatic processes; 3, the alveoli; and 4, the basi- and pre-sphenoid. 1. The resemblances in size and general configuration between the nasofrontal regions of the two skulls are so obvious that I need hardly dwell upon them at any length. The present specimen differs from the type in the more rounded contour of the nasal bones, in the persistence of the nasal suture, in the less rugosity and squareness of the supraorbital prominences, and in the far less marked definition of the temporal ridges; but none of these characters appear to me to have more than an individual import- ance, and I am inclined to suspect that they depend largely on the less advanced age of the present specimen. 2. The zygomatic processes have the same length (measured from the infraorbital fora- men) in each case. They are slightly narrower in the type specimen; in other respects