PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. 65 Seated upon the upper face of the neural arch are two other oval articular surfaces {l, b'), which answer to the postzygapophysial surfaces upon the under surfaces of the hinder part of the neural arch of the trivertebral bone. The inner part of each of these articular faces is convex in all directions; the outer is concave from side to side, convex from before backwards; behind each lies a transverse fossa. The outer ends of the transverse processes are obliquely truncated, and each presents two articular facets, an anterior and inferior, larger, and a posterior and superior smaller, which articulate with corresponding facets upon the capitulum and tuberculum of the attached rib. A well-marked notch separates the hinder face of the transverse process of the first from that of the second vertebra; and the intervertebral foramen is situated on the same level as this notch, on the one hand, and the anterior inferior facet, on the other, or about halfway between the upper and lower faces of the bone. The transverse process of the second vertebra (d. 1. 4) presents two oval articular facets for the head of a rib, more nearly equal and more nearly on a level than those of the first vertebra. The transverse process of the third vertebra is broken on the left side; but on the right side, traces of an elongated costal facet are visible. The ends of the lateral ridges representing the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh vertebrae are broken away. In the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh vertebrae (Plate VIII. fig. 7, d. 1.10,11, 12) they are preserved on the left side, broken away on the right; on the twelfth vertebra the corresponding ridges are broken on both sides. I find no trace of articular surfaces for ribs on the lateral ridge continued along the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh vertebrae, which, as I have stated, is entire on the left side; but the upper and inner surface of the ridge is rounded and marked by longi- tudinal striations (fig. 7). The outer surface is rough and irregular, opposite the ante- rior part of each vertebra, and raised into an irregular tubercle posteriorly. The spinous processes of all the vertebrae are broken short off; that of the first is almost obsolete, being a mere ridge sloping back towards the second, into which it is continued. The anterior edge of the process is so much inclined backwards and upwards as to afford free play to the knobbed head of the spinous process of the triver- tebral bone (fig. 2). The spinous process of the second vertebra (d. 1. 4) is 0-4 inch thick where it is broken through, and had probably a considerable height. A distinct interval separates it posteriorly from the thin anterior edge of the spinous process of the third vertebra, which is much thinner, and is anchylosed with its successors, as far as the eleventh inclu- sive, into a long continuous crest; slight traces of the original separation of the several spinous processes, however, are visible at the base of the crest, and they may have been distinct at their apices. The crest gradually increases in thickness to the sixth vertebra (d. 1. 8) (where it attains 0*75 inch), and then gradually diminishes. The spinous process of the twelfth vertebra (d. 1.14) may have been distinct down to its l 2