34 PKOFESSOK HUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. backwards; and therefore some of the fragments maybe referred to the left, and some to the right side .... From the preceding comparisons it follows that the fossil scutes are similar to those of the thoracic and pelvic shields of different living Armadillos, although they differ from them in many respects. But if objections should still be raised to regard- ing the animal which bore the fossil armour as an Armadillo (Giirtelthier), two replies may be made. In the first place, neither the entire skeleton nor the perfect shell of the animal have been obtained. Of the skeleton, the vertebral column, the ribs, and sternum are wanting—or exactly those parts which the moveable zones (Giirtel) would have covered. Secondly, the moveable zones themselves, although among the charac- teristic features of the Armadillos, are of less importance than was formerly believed, as Azara has already pointed out.” The state of the bones indicated that they appertained to a young animal, the epi- physes being distinct. Those described belonging to the fore limb are, a part of the scapula (1), the distal end of the left humerus, the radius and ulna, nearly perfect, and eighteen bones of the fore foot. Of the latter, five belonged to the carpus, of which the three proximal are interpreted by I)’Alt ox as the semilunare (Mondbein), cuneiforme (das dreieckige Bein), and pisiforme (Erbsenbein). I shall endeavour to show, in the course of my description of the specimen which forms the subject of this memoir, that the determinations of the semilunare and cuneiforme are perfectly correct, but that the so-called pisiforme is not rightly named. The distal bones are, according to D’Alton’s interpretation, which I can fully confirm, the magnum and the unciforme. Two entire metacarpal bones, and fragments of another, are considered by the author of the memoir to correspond with the third, fourth, and fifth of an ordinary five-toed fore foot; but they are really the second, third, and fourth, Professor D’Alton having taken the surface of the cuneiform, which articulates with the fifth metacarpal, for the surface of articulation with the pisiform. The phalanges of the digits belonging to these metacarpal bones, and three of their sesamoid bones, are carefully described and figured. The resemblances of the bones of the forearm with those of the existing Armadillos are pointed out, especial weight being laid upon the extension of the cuneiform round the unciform, and its articulation with what D’Alton supposes to be the fifth meta- carpal ; and certain analogies of the fore foot with that of the mole are indicated. A fragment of the distal end of a leg-bone, the seven tarsal bones, the four outer metatarsal bones; their digits, except the ungual phalanges; and some other bones of the hind foot, in a more or less fragmentary state, are described and figured, and atten- tion is drawn to the remarkably short and strong character of the foot. In conclusion D’Alton remarks, “ Though, as I have endeavoured to show above, there is a certain agreement between the manus of the fossil animal and that of the Armadillos, yet the foot shows us no greater similarity than may be observed between it and many other five-toed animals. Hence the osteology of the primeval animal does not afford a sufficient confirmation of the view which we derived from the consideration of the carapace, viz. that the bones, together with the fragments of dermal armour,