38 PROFESSOR IIUXLEY ON THE OSTEOLOGY OF THE GENUS GLYPTODON. teeth, the distal end of the humerus, the radius, two phalanges of the fore foot, “ the anchylosed distal extremities of the tibia and fibula, an astragalus, calcaneum, scaphoides, cuboides, external cuneiform bone, the three phalanges of the second toe, and the mid- dle and distal phalanges of the third and fourth toes, with a few sesamoid bones,” all belonging to the left side, are described; while the tooth and the hones of the leg and foot are figured. Professor Owen considers that the dental characters “ seem to indicate a transition from the Edentata to the pachydermatous Toxodon,” and sums up his general conclu- sions as to the affinities of Glyptodon thus:— “ It may be concluded, therefore, that the extinct edentate animal to which belongs the fossil tessellated armour described by Weiss, Buckland, and Clift, cannot be called an Armadillo, without making use of an exaggerated expression, and still less a species of Megatherium; but that it offers the type of a distinct genus, which was much more nearly allied to the Dasypodoid than to the Megatherioid families of Edentata, and most probably connected that order of quadrupeds with the heavy coated Ehinoceros of the Pachydermatous group” (/. c. p. 96). In the same year (1839) Professor D’Alton proposed for the animal, the remains of which he had originally described, the name of Pachypus; so that by this time no fewer than six names had been applied to mammals all of which are certainly closely allied to the Iloplophonis of Lund, whether they are, or are not, generically identical with it, and which may therefore be appropriately termed Iloploph or idem. In 1845 Professor Owen returned to the Glyptodon question, in the ‘Descriptive and illustrated Catalogue of the Fossil Organic Remains of Mammalia, and Aves contained in the Museum of the lloyal College of Surgeons of England.’ It is here stated (p. 107) that “those specimens of the present genus which were presented to the College by Sir Woodbine Parish are from a low marshy place, about five feet below the surface, in the bank of a rivulet, near the Rio Matanza, in the Partido of Canuelas, about twenty miles to the south of the city of Buenos Ayres.” The parts thus found associated are not stated, with the exception of the bones of the left hind leg and foot (p. Ill), to have belonged to the same individual. They consist of a molar tooth, part of the left ramus of the lower jaw, a fragment of the humerus, the left radius, a metacarpal bone and two phalanges, the shaft and distal epiphyses of the femur (1), the anchylosed distal ends of the tibia and fibula, and numerous bones of the left hind foot. These had already been described and figured in the Geological Society’s Transactions. As new specimens, there are described and figured an almost entire carapace of Glyptodon clavipes, from the Pampas of Buenos Ayres, and many dermal bones, all of which are marked “ Purchased,” and appear not to have been accompanied by bones of the endoskeleton. Nos. 551, 552, 554, 555, 556, 557 are fragments of carapace, all presented by Sir Woodbine Parish, and obtained from the locality mentioned above. They are ascribed by Professor Owen to no less than three distinct species, however,