SCR/BNERS’ ■ HOUSEHOLD ■ ‘BOOKS Eve's Daughters; OR, Common Sense for Maid, Wife and Mother. By MARION HARLAND, Author of “Common Sense in the Household," Etc., Etc. One Vol., i2mo, Extra Cloth. Price, $1.75. OPINIONS AS TO THE MERITS OF THIS WORK. “lam glad to see that your counsel to your sex is marked by discretion and based on knowledge of the complex elements of the problem you have 10 deal with. It is needed and will be useful, especially as commit from a woman who knows what she is talkin'* about. —Oliver Wendell Holmes, M.D. “I heartily indorse your book. If there is anything in it which is not right, I have failed to find it in two or three searches.”—Rev. S. Iken,eus Prime, D.D, “ I can heartily indorse your advice from beginning to end. I wish our mothers would read the advice you have given them and then follow it.”—David Clark. M D SDnnc- field. Mass. > e s “Although dealing with practical matters of the utmost importance to woman in her various relations, it has all the interest of a romance. The wisdom, good judgment, and rare literary tact shown by the author in this book increase its value, and are sure to com- mend it to public favor.”—Horatio Alger, Jr. “ You have zealously and bravely undertaken a work for women which they will have cause to thank you for."—Adeline D. T. Whitney. “ I have read the book with my classes, and can cordially recommend it to ‘ Eve's Daughters’ in every part of our country.”—Kate Sanborn, Department of English Lit- erature, Smith College. " Bright varied, and attractive in style, true and solid in matter.”—Rev. Tohn Hall. D.D. “Never was there a time in the history of book-making when a volume came forth more in response to a crying need for more light than this most excellent book. Every page of its valuable contents reveals the truth that the writer obeyed a voice of duty, out ot a true spirit of philanthropy and love, not only for womankind, but for the entire race. It is so charmingly written that each page is a fresh delight. Thysicians and philanthropists have long felt the need of the utterances of the truths of this book as well as the need of the present manner of saying them.”—Dr. L. G. Bedell, Chicago, 111. "Bright, chatty, frank, sensible, and brimful of womanly intuitions, information and advice. It might be called domestic philosophy for women with special reference to physiological constituents. There is a good deal of plain talk, and yet with such pure and wholesome interest as to gratify its rank judiciousness. It is the right way to convey to those who have the right to know, certain necessary and vitally important truths Sharp and healthy rebukes are given in certain needed directions, and such as d mand moral courage to utter them. The book is a good one, and the author has steered through the Scylla and Charybdis of its peculiar difficulties with womanly skill, fulfilling her own hope that ‘there is not a sentence which mother and daughter may not read together.’ ”— Springfield Republican. “ Such a book as this, prepared by a lady- of sound good sense, as well as practical talent, a lady who has seen the world and come in contact with wives and mothers in manv lands and under many systems of education and housekeeping, must be of immense usefulness. It is a sort of guide-book at home. Thousands of lives might have been brightened and ten thousand anxious days and nights avoided, had the good sense of these pages been incorporated into the daily work of the household.”—New York Observer. CHARLES SCRIBNER’S SONS, Publishers, 743 and 745 Broadway, New York.