REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 162 the ileo-csecal region. Various organic diseases, producing more or less the obstruction of the bowels, present a similar group of symptoms, but are, nevertheless; not to be confounded with this disease. Typhlitis stercoralis occurs suddenly in good health in some cases; in others it is preceded by slight colicky pains and sense of pressure in the hypo- gastrium, constipation, or diarrhoea. These symptoms are often so trifling as not to be noticed, but the disease soon sets in with all its terrors. There is violent colicky pains in the bowels, of a somewhat intermittent character, and uncontrollable vomiting occurs; the con- stipation is most obstinate, the belly is invariably swelled, and in the right part of the belly, below, there is a circumscribed swelling. The pathognomonic proof of symptoms is easily understood, if we imagine a reversed peristaltic action (!) set up by the obstruction of the bowels. The following is a summary of the disease:—i. The physiological character of typhlitis stercoralis is recognised by vomiting, obstinate constipation, colicky pains, distension of the belly, and a swelling in the right hypogastriuin. 2. The disease is anatomically a severe inflamma- tion of the mucous membrane of the caicum and ascending colon. 3. In order to make a sure diagnosis, all the peculiarities of the disease must be closely examined, in order to exclude other varieties of intesti- nal obstruction. 4. The disease does not always remain simple ; occa- sionally it is accompanied with peritonitis or inflammation of the connective tissue which unites the ascending colon with the fascia lata. 5. Typhlitis stercoralis occurs but rarely in all ages of childhood, and in infancy is either never or very seldom seen. 6. The etiological rela- tions to the disease yet require further explanation. 7. The disease involves a serious danger in itself, and still greater danger through the possibility of perforation in the progress of the inflammation. 8. An early and appropriate treatment may be expected to produce good results. Purgatives, blisters, local bleeding, and warm fomentations are the most reliable remedies ('Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xlviii, 1867). Dysentery. Dr. Morse, of San Francisco, says that in chronic dysentery uncom- plicated by organic disease of the heart, phthisis, or irremediable ob- struction in the liver or spleen, he has met with marked success by throwing into the rectum and colon from two to five pints of Labarraque's solution of chlorinated soda, largely diluted. The diet is first of all to be regulated, and the patient should keep the recumbent posture for some time. At daybreak, every third or fourth day, he gives a mild aperient, in order to clear out the bowels. After this'has acted two to four pints of the liquid are to be injected ; as much, indeed, as the bowel can be made to retain. Each succeeding enema should be made stronger until the patient says it smarts, when its strength is sufficient. Should there be much tenesmus after, Dr. Morse gives an opium enema or supposi- tory. He repeats the chlorine injections twice a day if necessary, but not as a rule. Occasionally, it is necessary to leave them off altogether for a time. The bowels should also be kept quiet, so that the ulcers inav have time to heal (' California Med. Gaz.,' Sept. 1868).