ABSCESS. 175 tion be changed, and. resistance offered to the transudation of the fluid, it will be thin and watery, not dense and turbid. Colouring with blood is an adventitious circumstance. In term it tent Seem aturia. In the ' Biennial Eetrospect' for 1865-6 we noticed cases of this sin- gular affection, which had been reported by Dr. G-. Harley, Dr. Dickin- son, Dr. G-. Johnson, and Dr. F. Cock. There appears to be a sub- stantial agreement as to the absence of any true blood from the urine, neither corpuscles nor colouring matter being recognisable. As re- gards the important matter of treatment, Dr. Dickinson affirmed the inefficacy of quinine, a medicine which might otherwise, from the pe- riodic nature of the malady, have been expected to prove remedial. Dr. G-. Harley, on the other hand, asserted that mercurials and quinine caused the disease to disappear rapidly. Dr. Lionel Beale now comes forward with an opinion confirmatory of Dr. Har!ey*s. He remarks that the pathological features of the disease seem to separate true haematuria from it as completely as that disorder is separated from gout, or jaundice, or congested liver. The casts which are found iu the urine are not like those found in the various forms of kidney disease; the albumen (as shown by Gh Harley) is not the albumen of blood-serum; and, on the whole, there is no reason to suppose that any true haemorrhage occurs. The phenomena seem much more like those of aguish diseases ; and although others have reported the failure of quinine, Beale has treated a case in which decided benefit was produced by 6-grain doses of that drug. In this disease there is, generally, evident hepatic derangement, and many circumstances point to the liver as probably more in fault than the kidneys. In some in- stances the malady appears to be connected with gout, a disorder doubtless partly due to disturbed liver-function. The brown colour of the urine may possibly be due to disintegration of blood-corpuscles in the liver (as blood accumulates in the hepatic capillaries) and subse- quent elimination of them, in an altered form, by the kidneys. It must be borne in mind that brown granules are found in the renal cells in these cases, just as biliary colouring matter and solid brown and yellow particles exist in the cells in jaundice. It seems, therefore, more pro- bable that the bulky brown product is secreted by the agency of the renal epithelium, than that it is a product of the disintegration of blood which had become stagnant in the capillaries of the kidney, or in the uriniferous tubes ('Practitioner,' August, 1868). Abscess. Dr. Gintrac, of Bordeaux, gives an account (' 1'Union Med.,' ii, 1867, 12 j) of a case of abscess of the left kidney bursting into the colon. The patient was a woman, set. 48. In 1865 she had shiverings, and vomit- ing, with alternate diarrhoea and constipation. In 1866 she became worse, and she observed a large tumour in the left flank. She was thin and weak. The tumour was extremely sensitive; urine clear and healthy. This was on the 7th of February. On the 20th there were abundant