213 TORSION AND ACUPRESSURE. sou, on a patient whose breast had been removed by M. Eichet, at the Hotel Dieu.* Eight needles were employed, and there was no haemor- rhage after their removal, but the edges became erysipelatous, rigors followed, and the patient died on April 18. " On April 17 I amputated a scirrhous breast. The patient, a?t. 66, was not a favorable subject for an operation, but the pain in the tumour rendered removal of the growth desirable. Bleeding was stopped by means of four needles, which were removed thirty-six hours after the operation. But the wouud presented an erysipelatous blush, with some dusky discoloration, and, beginning rapidly to distend with pro- ducts of decomposition, had to be speedily opened. Its entire surface was in a state of gangrene, aud the woman, sinking with symptoms of blood-poisoning, died on April 23. In this case the wound, which was of some size, had been closed, contrary to my usual practice, in the hope that speedy union might be obtained, owing to the presumed ab- sence, through the use of the needles, of.all local irritation. Eailing in this, the patient was poisoned from the rapid disorganization which ensued, and the absorption of the decomposing materials. " There cannot be any doubt, and the fact has long been admitted, as to the efficiency of a compress, such as the acupressure needle, to arrest bleeding; but the practical question which remains to be dealt with is the superiority of this plan of treatment over that of the ligature in favouring early union of wounds, and it is with reference to this point that the two cases referred to are of some interest, and may be of service in the present early stage of inquiry into the subject, so far as showing that in the repair of wounds acupressure has its unfavorable results. Unless the experience of more numerous observations teaches us that the after-progress of surgical operations is helped by the use of the needles, they must be regarded as but a clumsy substitute for the ordinary ligature. This is the compass of the question. '; The influence of ligatures to hurt the healing of wounds has been of late very unfairly stated. It seems to me, for example, at least doubt- ful pathology, on the part of the more earnest advocates of acupressure, to compare the parts surrounded by ligatures to so many sloughs. No surgeon can have had the misfortune to open a stump on account of secondary haemorrhage but must have had an opportunity for observing that no such sloughs exist, but, on the contrary, that the tissues tied off by the ligatxires at once adhere to and receive nourishment from the parts adjacent; thus they live, and do not die." In a clinical lecture on the treatment of wounds, reported in the 'Brit. Med. Journal' for Dec. 21, 1867, Mr. S. Garagee discusses the question of the suppression of haemorrhage by torsion and by acupres- sure, and avows his preference for ligatures in the following terms: " My reasons for adhering to the ligature are the same as those which actuated Sir James Simpson in preferring the passive iron of Schonbein to silver as a material for sutures. ' I have used,' writes the Edinburgh Professor, ' iron suture-threads in a great number of cases in the opera- tion for vesico-vaginal fistula, and with such almost invariable success » ' Gazette des Il&pitaux,' 23 Avril, 1867.