REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 884 Prof. Dolirn (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867) remarks that the conclusion arrived at by Kiichenmeister, Fabius, and Wintrich, that the vital capa- city of the lungs after completed labour is not greater than during pregnancy, is so remarkable as to call for further examination, lie has, therefore, examined 100 persons in the Marburg Lying-in Institution, by the aid of the spirometer. All sick persons and those awkward in the use of the spirometer were excluded. An increase of vital lung capacity in puerpery was observed in 60 per cent., the mean increase being 338 cubic centimetres. There was no change in 14 per cent., and there was a diminution in 26 per cent., the mean being 221 cub. centim. The result differed in primiparae and in multipara?. In 36 primipane the vital lung capacity in puerpery was greater than in pregnancy in 53 per cent., equal in 22 per cent., less in 25 per cent. In 64 pluri- para? it was greater in 64 per cent., equal in 27, less in 9 per cent. Not only was the proportion of cases in which the capacity in puerpery ex- ceeded that in pregnancy greater in pluriparae, but the mean increase was greater, being for pluriparso 458 cub. centim. against 244 for pri- miparse. This result indicates that primipara? are more severely affected by labour and the consequences, and are not so powerfully muscular as those who have already gone through a labour. The result given is not due to the younger age of primiparse. The general conclusion is that the majority of puerperse have, on the twelfth to the fourteenth day, a greater lung capacity than in the last weeks of pregnancy. The capacity of primiparae ranged in pregnancy from 1800 to 3600 cubic centim., and in childbed from 1800 to 3700 ; in primiparae, in pregnancy, from 1800 to 3450, and in puerpery from 1800 to 3200. Dr. P. Jassinsky, in an elaborate memoir on the " Structure of the Placenta" ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1867), has the following conclusions:— 1. There are tbick villi, which are modifications of the uterine glands. 2. In woman, as in other animals, the chorion villi grow into the uterine glands. 3. In the placenta are found, immediately after birth, two kinds of villi—(a) free, ordinary chorion villi, and (b) complex villi, that is, villi contained in the uterine glands. 4. The free villi consist of a simple layer of flat epithelium, and of a simple structureless membrana propria. 5. The complex villi consist of two structureless membranes and two epithelial layers, of which the outer one consists of cylindrical epithelium, the inner one of flat epithelium. 6. The number of complex villi is much smaller than that of the simple. 7. Not all the uterine glands are occupied by chorion villi; many remain free. 8. In mature placentas all the glands, the free as well as those to which villi have grown, show a marked fatty degeneration. 9. From the histological aspect, the tissue of the maternal portion of the placenta belongs to the epithelioid tissues. Prof. Hegar ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867) contests the correctness of Prof. Dohrn's recent researches on the anatomy of the mature human ovum membranes ('Monats. f. Geburtsk.,' xxvi; and 'N. Syd. S. Year- book,' 1867). Dohrn says the presence of a connective stroma in the de- cidua vera is rare. To this Hegar answers that Kilian, Kolliker, and Schroeder van der Kolk attest the presence of a fibrous connective tissue j but the denial by Dohrn that the maternal placenta exhibits a