248 REPORT ON SURGERY. yet even in the male subject the spine is twisted slightly to the right, so frequently that such condition is by some regarded as normal. A man, after the amputation of one arm, acquires by the action of unequal weight a certain amount of lateral twist, rarely sufficient to constitute a noticeable deformity. When, however, a girl carries a weight con- stantly on one arm its power in contorting the spine becomes consider- able, and we occasionally find nurse-girls become very crooked from such cause. In these cases the lumbar muscles on the other (the left) side of the spine are found very much developed in consequence of increased action counterbalancing the burden carried. In such cases the com- pensatory lumbar curve is established simply for the sake of balance; not so the secondary curve in cases arising from respiratory causes. The two forms are distinct, not only in causation, but in form, and in the action of subtending muscles. How and why these differences arise must be the subject of another paper. " If the two causes (one-sided pectoral breathing and the influence of weight) be combined, as is frequently the case, their distorting power is very great; but the former is undoubtedly the more influential, and is continuous both night and day. European women, as above stated, increase this peculiarity of thoracic breathing by wearing tight petticoat strings, corsets, and belts round the waist; also many plump girls, in desire to retrain any unsightly, however blameless, enlargement of the abdomen, frequently compress that part with belts or corsets, and thus by almost entirely checking the respiratory movements of the abdomen place themselves in a position of dangerous facility for acquiring dorsal curvature." Mr. Barwell next goes on to show in what way the abdominal muscles passing from the ilium to the ribs, and meeting there with the inser- tions of the serratus magnus into those bones, act in the production of spinal curvature from respiratory causes, the line of force thus exerted upon the ribs and through the ribs upon the vertebrae lying, according to him, in the diagonals between the lines of action of the serratus and external oblique, which he finds by experiment to converge to a space between the first and third lumbar vertebras. The cause of curvatures primarily lumbar Mr. Barwell places in the action of the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles (chiefly the latter). This is caused by various deformities, as ankylosis of the knee, contracted hip, varus, or by bad habits of position, causing pro- trusion of one hip, which is the first symptom of the deformity generally noticed by ordinary observers, as the dressmaker or dancing- master. Mr. Barwell then passes on to consider the curability of the complaint. He asserts that lateral curvature is never caused by a yielding of the substance of the vertebrae themselves, but only by compression of the intervertebral substance; and he cites an experiment of Hirschfeld's, which he has himself twice repeated at the ages of 43 and 34, and which proves that in the denuded vertebral column, if all the pedicles be cut off, so as to isolate the column formed by the bodies, the latter will im- mediately become quite straight, in consequence of the resilience of the intervertebral discs. This shows that even a very long persistence of