391 DISEASES COMPLICATING PREGNANCY. cular substance of the heart near its basis ; the papillary muscles showed similar ecehymoses, and the muscular fibres were in state of fatty dege- neration, the cells were in advanced degeneration; the ductus cbole- dochus was plugged with mucus. The contracted liver had shrunk quite an iuch above the rib cartilages ; both kidneys were swollen, the parenchyma soft, stained yellow, and in state of fatty degeneration. Spleen enlarged. The uterus reached above the symphysis. In the broad ligaments were some extravasations of blood. Blood was found in the intestines ('Monatsschr. f. Greburtsk.,' 1867). Diseases complicating Pregnancy. Dr. Barnes and Mr. Milne (' Obstetr. Trans.,' ix) give cases and remarks illustrating the history of pregnancy complicated with small- pox. In 4 cases labour set in prematurely ; 3 children were born alive, 1 dead. Dr. Barnes discusses the following questions :—1. What is the influence of intercurrent smallpox upon the pregnancy ? 2. In what way does it excite premature labour ? 3. To what extent is the life of the mother endangered ? 4. "What is the influence upon the child ? 5. Is it desirable to induce labour? Mr. Benson Baker (loc. cit.) had had 7 cases; in all labour set in prematurely, all the children being alive. The reciprocal influence of pregnancy, labour and childbed, on malarial infection, is discussed by Dr. Bitter (' Virchow's Archiv,' 1867). Pregnant women enjoy no immunity from ague; ague does not dispose to abortion; large doses of quinine were not useful; labour arrests the periodical attacks ; childbed predisposes to relapse. Dr. Henry Kennedy contributes a number of observations of fever compli- cating pregnancy (! Dubl. Q. Journ. of Med. Sc.,' 1867). The mortality was small; abortion is sometimes critical; the treatment should not be modified. Dr. Wallichs, practising in Neumunster, observed an epi- demic of abdominal typhoid (enteric fever ?) (' Mon. f. Greburtsk.,' 1867), and relates two cases in which pregnant women were seized. In both the children were born alive. Wallichs refers to a memoir on the subject by Kaminsky, who submits that the death of the foetus is not due to the fever alone, but principally to the great increase of tempe- rature that attends febrile diseases. Kaminsky observed restlessness of the fcetus and increased frequency of heart-beat whenever the tem- perature rose above 40° C. ; that the heart ceased at 42° C. to 42,5°. Acting on this theory, Wallichs applied hot cloths to the spine whenever the temperature rose to 40° C. His two patients recovered. Dr. S. Kersch, of Prague ('Memorab.,' i, ii, 1867), describes the course of cholera in the several trimestral periods of pregnancy in puerpery. In the first period death occurred without abortion; five cases in the second period recovered without abortion; nine cases in the third period recovered, but premature labour occurred in all; all the children, excepting one, were born asphyxiated. In puerpery five cases were observed; all died, mostly in the comatose or typhous stage, William Sedgwick, in a paper " On the Continuance of the Mammary