DISPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND sritGFRY. 362 strabismus* iu its applications to the physiology of vision, especially in relation to the cases in which diplopia did not exist during strabismus, but supervenes after tenotomy. Dr. Schweiggerf has also written upon squint. Dr. Kugel J has studied the causes and treatment of nystagmus. He divides cases of nystagmus into three classes. In the first class he places those that date from early infancy, in which, he says, there is always some pathological state of the refracting media of the eye. This state may be (a) turbidity of the media, (b) a high degree of regular hypermetropic astigmatism combined with irregular astigmatism, or (c) a high degree of myopia of both eyes. In these cases the author believes the retinal image is not sufficiently clear and precise to be the originator of any definite reflex movement of direction. The second class coin- prises cases in which the ^stagmus coexists with some disease of the fundus of the eye (irido-choroiditis), recognisable by its special signs. Such cases never date from infancy. Kugel explains them by supposing that disease has reduced the normal acuteness of the macula lutea to that of the parts around it, and that thus the uatural stimulus to fixation, the clearer character of central vision, is taken away. The third class he attributes to insufficiency of the muscles of the eye, and chiefly of the internal recti and the muscle of accommodation. As regards treatment, cases of the third class may, he says, be easily cured, either by pris- matic or by convex spectacles. In cases of the second class he advises the use of any surgical, or medical, or optical means by which vision may be improved; and cases of the third class are scarcely within the reach of treatment. Dr. Schiess-Gemuseus records § a case of periodic diplopia cured by displacement backwards of both internal recti. Dr. Dor|| calls attention to the frequency with which paralysis of accommodation occurs after diphtheria, and relates cases. He believes that the nature of the affec- tion has in some cases been wholly overlooked; and that instances of so-called " diphtheritic amaurosis " have depended solely on paralysed accommodation, which, in hypermetropic eyes, would destroy clear vision for distant objects as well as for near ones. In Dr. Dor's cases the mobility of the pupil was retained, thus showing that the move- ments of the iris are independent of those of the tensor choroidse. The patients greatly improved under treatment by bromide of potassium and sulphate of quinine. (c) Medicine. Cases of amaurosis from lead poisoning have been observed by Dr. , E. Meyer^f in two sisters employed at Brussels in bleaching lace with the aid of white lead. In the first case the girl was attacked by colic at « the age of nineteen, and afterwards became hemiplegic on the right side. From this she perfectly recovered, but her sight gradually , * ' Du Strabisme dans ses applications a la Pliysiologie de la Vision/ Paris, 1868. t 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. { ' Archiv fiir Ophthalmologic,5 xiii, 2 ; and ' Annales d'Oculistique,' 1868. § ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. || * Annales d'Oculistique,' 1868. % ' Union Medicale,' 1868.