UEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 130 merit of the disease ought to be in every way restorative, Bhould include nutritious food, the judicious use of stimulants and medicinal tonics, gentle exercise in pure air, bright sunshine and agreable scenery, with pleasant society. When, however, the disease is ushered in by acute bronchitis or pneumonia, the treatment should rather be medi- cinally antiphlogistic, including salines, with or without antimony, blisters and cataplasms, and sometimes even leeching and cupping; afterwards the sustaining plan should be adopted. "When there is active inflammation and continued heat of skin, hard racking cough (dry or with viscid tinged expectoration), it answers well to withhold or with- draw the stronger stimulants and tonics, it may be for a few days only, to substitute cooling remedies and local antiphlogistic application's. This, however, should cease as soon as possible, and be replaced by the more common and strengthening plan of treatment. The author gene- rally combines the use of cod-liver oil and medicinal tonics, and these, he says, may be exhibited long before the inflammatory complication has subsided. They may be given in the morning and early portion of the day, whilst the saline may be given during the evening and at night, counter-irritants being also used. "When the nocturnal heat of the skin subsides, the cough becomes less frequent, and the urine more free, the saline may be replaced by a cough mixture if this be needed, the counter- irritation moderated, and the tonic, given with the oil, gradually strength- ened by adding to it a little salicine, quinine, or iron. Dr. Williams thinks the last two remedies especially useful, but require care in their administration, as they often increase the lingering intercurrent inflam- mations, with their attendant pain, constriction, cough, and viscid expec- toration. Not unfrequently they disorder the stomach and bowels. It is therefore better, when the patient cannot be seen frequently, to rely on mild bitters like calumba, cascarilla, or chiretta, which may be used along with the oil for weeks or months. Still, the great remedy is cod-liver oil, which, when taken into the system in sufficient quantity and for a sufficient length of time, acts as a nutrient, not only adding to the fat of the body, but also promoting healthy growth of other tissues, and obviating any tendency to degenerative changes. The best time for the administration of cod-liver oil is just after, at, or before a solid meal, when it is least likely to give rise to eructations. Also, as the oil must bo given for months or yeai's, both palate and stomach should be conciliated by the oil being exhibited in an agreable vehicle. For this purpose an aromatic bitter, or compound infusion of orange-peel acidu- lated with a mineral acid, syrup may be added if desired, or, still better, some bitter tincture, whilst in some cases strychnine in small doses would seem to be of great advantage. The bulk of oil given as a dose should be small, so that it may be swallowed at a single draught; a teaspoonful is quite enough at first, and the amount given should never exceed a tablespoonful, more being liable to derauge the bowels and do actual harm. The acid may also be varied; in inflammatory cases the nitric suits best. Where there is a liability to hemoptysis, sweats, or diarrhoea, sulphuric acid is preferable ; but for long continuance Dr. Williams recommends phosphoric acid. The diet also frequently requires attention, the richness of the oil requiring that the food should