42 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. all cases of acute rheumatism with more than usual restlessness should he watched with especial care. If the symptoms of danger were early- noted good might he hoped for from the cold affusion, or other means of lowering the temperature, combined, perhaps, with large doses of quinine. —'Lancet,' Feb. I, 1868, " Clinical Society's Transactions," 1868. Venereal Diseases. The controversy about the unity or duality of the syphilitic poison still goes on with great vigour. In this country opinion is leaning strongly towards the side of duality, the prevailing idea being that the indurated chancre is the only primary sore related to constitutional syphilis; but on the Continent authorities are quite divided. On the side of unity, Dr. Gr. Lagneau maintains (' Gaz. Ilebdom.,' 10, 1867) that the hard and the soft chancre are only varieties of the same thing, and that the supposed diagnostic differences are fallacious. The period of incubation of the hard chancre, instead of being always from fifteen to twenty days, is sometimes as long as twenty-five days, and, on the other hand, is often only eight or six days, and, according to Diday, may even occupy only one day; while the soft chancre, instead of having no sensible period of incubation, often has one of seven days. Even the character of induration Lagneau thinks is no real test, since induration is favoured by certain anatomical features of the tissue affected, e.g., ulcers of the vulva are almost never, while ulcers of the head are almost always, indurated. Soft chancre may also undergo in- flammatory induration, while infecting sores may commence as mere erosions. Lagneau quotes Gralligo for instances of hard chancre accom- panied by induration of many glands, not followed by constitutional symptoms, and Cullerier for cases of soft chancre in which constitu- tional syphilis did occur. Dr. Leon Lebel argues on the same side ('Presse Med. Beige,' 31, 1867), relating a case—which he says, is like many he has seen—where a man, being admitted to the hospital seven days after connection, exhi- bited chancres, and the woman who had infected him, admitted three days after the intercourse, displayed one large chancre at the orifice of the vagina. Local treatment only was applied to each patient; the man left the hospital in four weeks, cured, and without any sign of syphilis ; the woman, on the very same day, showed indurated glands and a papular rash. Prof. Wertheim (in an address to the Vienna K.K. Gesellschaft d. Aerzte) professes himself a strong unitarian as regards the theory of syphilis. On the other side, that of dualism, there are a multitude of papers. But it is unnecessary to quote all these, since the arguments on this side of the question are exhaustively summed up by Mr. Berkeley Hill (' Syphilis and Local Contagious Disorders,' Walton, 1868). Syphilitic deposits in Viscera. Dr. Meschede relates a case of this kind. The patient, set. 36, had long-standing constitutional syphilis ; he had undergone several courses