REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. (12) When about the middle of the lung several cavities lie near together in a horizontal or diagonal line, and are bounded by solidified lung, they are, in all probability, due to dilated bronchi; cavities result- ing from the breaking up of cheesy deposits are commonly isolated, irregularly placed, larger, and yield on auscultation unmistakable cavernous or amphoric breathing and pectoriloquy. The only certain evidence, however, of the existence of cheesy cavities is the presence of areola} of elastic tissue in the sputum. (13) In the neighbourhood of the solidified lung it is not uncommon to find patches and tracts of lung in a condition of extreme vesicular emphysema, and the atrophic changes constituting which appear in many instances to be due to plugging or to some other obliteration of branches of the pulmonary artery. It is, therefore, a statical as opposed to a dynamical emphysema. (14) When the left lung is affected the heart is usually displaced upwards and a little outwards. When the right lung is affected the heart is drawn chiefly outwards and a little upwards. In both cases a low pitched systolic bruit is commonly heard over the pulmonary artery. (15) The cough is paroxysmal, and ordinarily induces vomiting. The expectoration varies. It is usually yellowish, greenish, or ashen grey, studded with pigment, streaked with blood; sometimes fetid, and ejected with difficulty after several ineffectual fits of exhaustive coughing. (16) The general symptoms, viewed collectivel}', are strikingly dif- ferent from those of tubercular phthisis. The skin is—local sweats excepted—dry and inactive. There are no profound exhaustions, no continuous elevation of temperature, no evening fever, seldom any hectic flushing till the disease is far advanced; the breathing is quiet, and the pulse generally 84. (17) A slight oedema of the lower extremities is very common in the course of this disease, and almost always present at its close. (18) Patients who have suffered from fibroid phthisis, whether of local or constitutional origin, become at last padded, waxy-looking, and cachectic. (19) The disease is commonly slow in its progress, and when it com- plicates tubercles it retards disintegration and greatly prolongs life. This may explain some of the cases of unusually protracted phthisis in spirit drinkers. (20) The frequent occurrence of even copious haemoptysis, and the setting in of diarrhoea in the course of this disease, may justify a sus- picion of the development of tubercles, but are not conclusive evidence of their presence. Haemoptysis, diarrhoea, and ulceration of the bowels, often occur during life, without a solitary tubercle appearing after death ('The Clinical Society's Transactions,' 1868). The Contagion of Pulmonary Pli/Jiisis. Dr. Wiudrif, of Cassel, writes a paper on this subject. He quotes the partial statement of Gruibout, who leans to the conclusion that this disease is probably contagious. Dr. Windrif brings forward certain