RBPOET ON MIBW1FBEY, ETC. 4-24 of both capsules were irregular, yellow, thick knots, showing under the microscope fatty detritus. On the mortality of infants; the prophylaxis of infantile syphilis; OH lactation, and the institution of foundling hospitals in Italy. By Dr. liomolo Griilini ('Annali Univ. di Med. Milano,' 1868). An elabo- rate statistical memoir. In reference to the transmissibility of syphilis from a nursling to the nurse, there is a critical analysis of a case in which an action was brought against the nursling's parents ('Journ. f. Kiuderk.,' 1867). Muscular contraction in connection with syphilis is illustrated by a case by Henoch. A boy, fourteen months old, had a contraction of the right arm at the elbow-joint, of the fingers of the right baud, and of the knee-joints. Standing, sitting, or grasping with the right hand, were impossible. The biceps brachii and the flexors of the leg were tensely stretched, and attempts to extend the limbs caused shrieks. The child had had epileptic convulsions when three weeks old, and the contractions had followed. All the sigus of congenital syphilis co- existed. After mercurial treatment, continued for two or three months, the child regained the use of the arm, and could begin to run. Henoch says the syphilitic nature of the contractions in this case was indis- putable. He rejects the idea that the contractions might be clue to brain or spinal disease in infancy. Pie thinks the indurations and con- tractions of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles occasionally found in new-box'n children are not connected with syphilis. In one such case he thought the affection due to a hamiatoma caused by the laceration of some fibres of the muscle by the forceps during delivery. Diseases of the Nervous System. J. Bierbaum ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1867-8) relates cases establishing the distinction between meningitis simplex and meningitis tuberculosa. The simple form begins unexpectedly in the most healthy child, quickly advances, with violent fever, persistent lethargy or coma, retarded respiration, vomiting, constipation, contracted pupils, soon reaching its climax. This course is not that of tubercular meningitis, but much rather that of pure inflammation of the pia mater easily and quickly running into fibrino-purulent exudations. His cases were treated successfully by leeching, calomel, and at a later period by quinine. Under the title " Pachyleptomeningitis," Dr. C. Mettcnheiner (loc. cit.) discusses the varieties of hydrocephalus. He relates a case and autopsy, in which the dura mater was found very thick, and, being incised, gave issue to a stream of greenish thick pus. The pus had collected in the arachnoid space in a defined sac. The same subject is illustrated by cases by Hensch (' Beitriige zur Kinderheilk.,' 1868). He relates autopsies. The course of meningitis simplex is always much more rapid than that of the tubercular form. He relates a series of cases of chronic meningitis and another of tuber- cular meningitis. In a memoir on hemiplegia Henoch (loc. cit.) who says he has made many autopsies of children affected with hemiplegia. In all cases tuber-