284 REPORT ON SURGERY. merely punctured, and the measure can be applied mediately. 5. Ligation is more convenient, as it produces neither pain nor a suppu- rating cavity; and the fears of exciting diffused phlebitis are utterly groundless, as there is not a single example showing that such an in- flammation has followed its employment. The ligature is, moreover, called for to guard against the introduction of air, and prevent its further ingress, as well as to prevent the occurrence of difl'used phlebitis. 6. The lateral ligature is to be avoided, as it has been the cause of all the fatal results from secondary haemorrhage; and both ends of the wounded or divided vessels are to be tied, since reflux haemorrhage is not an infrequent occurrence. 7. Ligature of the common carotid artery will not restrain the flow of blood from a wounded internal jugular vein, and is, therefore, to be rejected as a hemostatic measure. 8. Not only has the danger of pyaemia after ligation of the vein been, greatly exaggerated, but all the dangers are also hypothetical, aa neither apoplexy, softening of the brain, nor other cerebral disorders, have ensued from its employment, the collateral circulation beiug amply sufficient to prevent those accidents. 9. The cause of death after ligation is not to be looked for in the production of pyaemia, as the fatal issue has, in every instance, been due to secondary haemorrhage, coming on about the time of the separation of the thread. (' American Journal of Medical Sciences,' quoted in 'Brit. Med. Journal,' July 13, 1867.) The Hunterian ligation of arteries to relieve and prevent destructive inflammation. By Henry P. Campbell, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in the New Orleans School of Medicine, and during the war Consulting Surgeon to the Georgia Hospitals, Richmond, Va. The above is the title of a short pamphlet published at Augusta, Georgia, in 1866. The author refers to a paper which he published anonymously at Richmond in October, 1863, and to a manual on ope- rative surgery for the use of the army surgeons of the Confederate States, in one of the chapters of which the same subject is discussed. The present pamphlet is meant to explain the views expressed by Dr. Campbell in these two previous publications, and to give notes (as far as it was possible to preserve them) of the cases on which those views were founded. The following is the author's explanation of his previous teaching: . . " The method of ligation proposed, or rather revived, by Mr. Guthrie, is advocated throughout our chapter for nearly all cases of traumatic haemor- rhage, whether primary or secondary, while that of Hunter is strongly objected to. Certain exceptional cases, however, are discussed, wherein it is taught that Guthrie's double ligature at the seat of injury may be ad- vantageously replaced by the method of Anel and Hunter, in which a single ligature is applied at some distance above the arterial lesion. The most prominent among the exceptional conditions is the one—every- where dwelt upon—wherein the condition of the wound, and of the limb, was such as to indicate a liability to extensive or even destructive inflammation. In such cases our experience and observation, very early in the war, had taught us that the risk of hemorrhage by the re-