REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 460 Two serious objections have been urged to the test: —i. That sub- serous ecchymoses are not constantly met with in all cases of death from suffocation. 2. That ecchymoses may be found beneath the pleura and pericardium in other conditions—in the course of disease, after injuries, or in the infant in peculiar circumstances, &c. Tardieu meets the first of these objections with the answer that the hundreds of positive cases in which he and others have proved the pre- sence of ecchymosis cannot be weakened by the cases in which it has been stated to be absent, for they are very exceptional; and that this is a question of observation and experience. The second objection he meets by pointing out that error and confusion of diagnosis are too often thought to be possible because the lesions have not been suffi- ciently well observed and contemplated, and that in all cases of this sort there are certain means of preventing other ecchymoses bein^ mistaken for those produced by suffocation. Hemorrhagic affections" more especially purpura, some severe forms of eruptive fevers, and pestilential diseases, notably typhus and cholera, are the chief forms of spontaneous disease in which subpleural and subpericardial ecchymoses have been observed. But these ecchymoses must not be confounded with those produced by suffocation. The latter are very much smaller, regularly rounded, and strictly circumscribed, being formed by a small drop of coagulated blood. The former are larger and more irregular, always fluid, diffuse, and mostly of a violet and livid hue; moreover, the circumstances under which they are formed, their number, distribu- tion through many organs, and the effusions of blood with which they are accompanied, allow of no mistake. In the ecchymoses found beneath the serous membranes in poisoning by arsenic, mercury, phosphorus, and digitalis, sufficient diagnostic characters are furnished by the dissemination of the spots, their varied seat, the frequent presence of sanguineous infiltrations in the gastro- intestinal mucous membrane, the presence of abdominal lesions and hemorrhagic evacuations. Strychnia and hydrocyanic acid, in conse- quence of the rapidity of death and the long-continued fluidity of the blood which they produce, give rise to a state of partial and irregular congestion, and in many cases effusions of blood and the formation of apoplectic deposits on the surface of the heart and lungs; but Tardieu has proved that these poisons do not give rise to the small, sharply defined ecchymotic spots of suffocation. Some convulsive diseases, as epilepsy, occasionally give rise to ecchy- moses but these are chiefly external, and are rarely formed in internal organs. In hanging, according to Tardieu's experience, no other appearances are observable in the lungs save a general engorgement of blood, and occasionally circumscribed emphysema ; never circumscribed effusions or ecchymoses beneath the pleura and pericardium. He says that he cannot admit that punctated ecchymoses beneath the serous membranes of the heart and lungs, and under the pericranium are found after hanging. In drowning there is much congestion of the whole extent of the viscera, aud these are frequently covered with spots formed by hemorrhagic effusions, but they are very different iu appearance from