REPORT ON SURGERY. 334 steam, bad half an inch cut off the top of the middle finger of the left hand, including the pulp and a portion of the nail. The line of separa- tion ran in an oblique direction. I saw him in ten or twelve minutes after. He was depressed, pale, cold, and shivering. I inquired if the piece could be found. In a few minutes it was brought to me dirty, out of some rubbish. Having very gently removed all particles of dust and blood, I replaced the piece and adapted the cut surfaces, the portion of nail attached to the separated part being a guide to perfect coaptation. It has now (Nov. 27) united throughout, healing near the nail by granulations, the remainder by the first intention. I ascribe my success to the perfect coaptation of the surfaces, warmth, a good constitution, and securing the hand across the chest in order to prevent the finger from being jarred during sleep, and the parts disturbed. I adduce this as an additional case in proof of the prudence of making a trial to secure the reunion of separated parts."—'Med. Press and Circular,' Dec. 4, 1867. Carbolic acid.—In the 'Lancet,' Nov. 9, 1867, Prof. Pirrie advocates the use of carbolic acid in burns. One of the cases is thus described: " On many parts, especially about the face, neck, and shoulder, there were innumerable small vesicles (other parts were free from vesicles); and on the arm there were two bulla?, one about the size of a penny, the other a little larger. The burn was thus, evidently, partly of the first and partly of the second degree. The patient was affected with shivering; she complained of excessive pain; the pulse was extremely feeble, rapid, and irregular; and she was troubled with vomiting, which continued for two days. Two folds of surgeon's lint, dipped in a lini- ment of one part of carbolic acid to six parts of olive oil, were closely applied to the whole of the scalded surface, a double layer of tinfoil was placed above the lint, and the whole secured by means of a bandage. The air was thus completely excluded; and in ten minutes the patient, much to my surprise, stated that she was free from pain. On the second day after the accident the skin was greatly improved, and the bulla? seemed withering away. On the twelfth day the skin was every- where perfectly healed, the cuticle having been thrown off; and, although the case was watched with the utmost care, not a single drop of pus was discovered. " The sudden and perfect subsidence of pain, the withering of the bulla?, the complete healing of such an extent of scalded surface with- out the slightest suppuration, in a patient of feeble constitution and greatly depressed by shock, appear to me to show that carbolic acid is well deserving of trial in burns of the first and second degree. I have seen some scalds of less extent prove fatal, and I have seen many not so unpromising at first end in suppuration and ulceration of skin, and require months to heal." In the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 7, 1868, is an account by Mr. Machin, of Erdington, near Birmingham, of an accident which occurred in the Aston Union Workhouse, in which three women afiected with the itch were sponged over with Calvert's Carbolic Acid, used for disin- fecting purposes, by mistake for sulphur lotion. Giddiness and rapid