ItEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 184. cephaloid matter, chiefly in its lower portion, with hamorrhagic masses and eight or ten cysts. The mass weighed ahout 8 lb. Dr. Lancereaux contributes to the * Gaz. Me"d. de Paris,' 1868, p. 646 et seq., some interesting facts as to hepatic adenoma. He gives a variety of cases in which masses of hepatic cells have been found pro- jecting from the surface of the liver, in the form of isolated masses in its interior, and blocking up the portal or sublobular veius. In each instance there was jaundice, with, in certain cases, owing to the venous obstruction, ascites, and sometimes anasarca. Lancereaux esteems it malignant in its character, and thus speaks of it:—" Distinguished by its anatomical characters and by its ordinarily rapid course, this lesion (cir- cumscribed hypergenesis of hepatic cells) should be received into the group of cancerous affections, as much on account of the presence of a neoplasm in the bosom of the veins as on the invasion of the lymphatic glands by the product, a character which never belongs to cirrhosis. It is, then, only a variety of hepatic cancer of which the proper hepatic cells are the principal element. To this variety of cancer two others may be added—the one, the more frequent, has its origin in an alteration of the elements of the connective tissue, whilst the other is due to a hyper- genesis of the cylindrical epithelium of the biliary passages. These cha- racters do not apply to secondary cancer of the liver, for this always presents the characters of the primitive disease elsewhere developed." Dr. Donkin gives an account of a case ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Oct. 3, 1868) of death from the pressure of gall-stones on the vena porta?. (Ignatius Loyola is said to have died from a like cause.) The subject was a man, aet. 56, of robust frame and temperate habits. Three years ago his thigh had been amputated after an accident, which, of course, interfered a good deal with his active habits. On April 4th he went to bed, after a hearty supper, in his usual health, but was awoke about midnight with intense pain in the abdomen, accompanied with vomiting. The pain continued till the 10th, when he was seen by Dr. Donkin; there was then great tenderness over the stomach, and almost incessant vomiting of greenish fluid; immense quantities of this had been thrown up. The pulse was quiet. There had been no evacuation from the bowels since the attack, and the urine was suppressed. The patient gradually became worse, and died next day. A. post-mortem examination showed the great omentum deeply congested, and blood- clots between its folds. Such also was the condition of the ascending mesocolon. The cascum was highly congested; the ascending colon blackish from the same cause, the transverse colon less so. The sto- mach was much congested, and blood in some parts was extravasated ; it contained a good deal of fluid, but the bowels were empty. The liver was healthy. The gall-bladder contained three large calculi, which it firmly embraced, so as to present a beaded appearance. It contained no bile, and posteriorly pressed upon the portal vein where it enters the liver. The muscular walls of the gall-bladder were atrophied, its fibrous coat thickened. The three calculi, placed end to end, measured 3 inches in length j the circumference of one was 3 inches, of another 21 of the third 2f. Dr. E. Hoffmann, of Bale, narrates, in ' Virchow's Archiv,' xlii, pp.