HEPOltT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 378 Dr. Horwitz (' St. Petersb. Med. Ztschr.,' 1867) relates a case of pre- mature puberty; menstruation set iu at the age of 10, pregnancy at 12; delivery of live child, milk abundant. The Decidua Menstrualis. Dr. Hausmann gives an historical review of the researches hitherto made on this subject. lie says he has never observed an entire cast of the uterine cavity, the membrane having always been expelled in three or four pieces. The membranes were from 1 to 4 centim. long, of variable width, and usually thinner at the margin of transition from 'the anterior to the posterior wall of the cavity, at times only hanging together by a few shreds. The inner wall showed a smooth surface, and upon more minute examination several crossing forks, already described by Follin, enclosing, when recent, in their midst deeply red areas. These last, as well as partially translucent spots, depend upon an unequal thickness of the detached mucous membrane, as mav be easily seen by sections made through these spots. Within these larger crossings the inner surface shows a number of punctate small openings, which are the expanded mouths of the uterine glands, au appearance which made Hunter call the membrane the membrana cribrosa. The outer surface was rough from hanging shreds. The microscope made manifest the uterine glauds accompanied by capillary network; broad rounded cells, mostly having a large nucleus and a nucleolus, which sometimes was elongated and pointed at one or both ends, giving a spindle shape. With these cells were a few free nuclei, and near the outer surface was an abundant, loose, fibrous connective tissue. As to the origin of this casting of the uterine mucous membrane, Dr. Hausmann contends that they are the result of impregnation. He disputes the statement that the membrane is shed every four weeks ; he says the casts commonly occur after intervals longer than ordinary ; that they occur only in married women, or in women exposed to sexual intercourse; he calls attention to the fact that women, who before menstruation never had anything of the kind, begin to expel these mem- branes afterwards. He concludes that these membranes are abortions of some days or weeks, the mucous membrane of the uterus converted into decidua being expelled after the perishing or escape of the ovum. This occurs preferably at a menstrual epoch, and this may favour the idea that it is a simple menstrual decidua, but often the interval is longer than four weeks. The membrane is expelled commonly within six to twenty- four hours after the beginning of the haemorrhage, sometimes later, and generally after pains. There are probably various causes of the abor- tion, but probably the premature destruction of the embryo precedes it. The frequent catarrh of the uterine mucous membrane and chronic metritis associated with this condition are generally the consequence ot\ it. The most essential rule in treatment is the abstinence from sexual relations for several months (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' January, 1868).