96 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. also took small doses of quinine and nux vomica. There was no very decided benefit. The third case was that of a woman, aged 24, in whom a most extraordinary degree of wasting of nearly all the voluntary- muscles had occurred. The faradisation was regularly ordered ; but as she had previously taken iodide of potassium for three weeks, and as there was great suspicion of lead poisoning', the case is inconclusive; nevertheless, it seems certain that faradisation had much to do with the recovery, which Dr. Wilks pronounced to be one of the most remark- able he had ever seen. In two other cases both the continuous and the induced currents were employed. The patient was a woman, aged ,36". The upper limbs were strongly affected, especially on the right side. Their contractility with the continuous current was much reduced, as was sensibility to the same current. In about six weeks after the daily use of the continuous current a very marked improvement had taken place, not only in the power of the affected muscles, but also in their sensi- bility to the current. When this was left off for a few days the patient complained of languor. For the last three weeks the right or more feeble limb had been daily faradised, and in a month's time all the muscles of each hand, except those of the thumbs, reacted to the current. The final improvement was only partial, and the patient went into the country improved, but by no means cured. A second case, which was treated with both currents for a long period, gave no par- ticular results ('Practitioner/ Dec. 1868). One-sided Spinal Paralysis. Eosenthal reports two cases observed by himself. The first patient was 27 years old, and he caught a cold when much heated. He soon experienced an exaltation of sensibility, first in the right foot and then of the left, which passed on into an anaesthesia. Two months afterwards, amid symptoms of excitement, a paralysis of the right arm and leg occurred. Six months from the commencement there existed an anaesthesia and analgesia extending from the right collar-bone and shoulder-blade downwards over the whole half of the body with the exception of the coccygeal nerve. At the same time the sense of tem- perature was destroyed on the right side, but the reflex movements were partially exalted. The ansesthestic parts were frequently subject to a weary feeling and with a kind of burning. Motility was not affected at all. On the left side, on the contrary, sensibility was normal, but all voluntary movements were put an end to. Reflex movement and sensitiveness to temperature were exalted, contractility of muscles to the fenadic current was considerably diminished, and the excitability of the radial nerve to the galvanic current was also diminished. Eosenthal be- licved that this was inflammation of the left half of the spinal cord, caused by cold, and treated it first with iodide of potash and cool baths, after- wards with the exciting galvanic current applied to the spine and to the nerve-trunks, alternating with faradisation of the skin over the anaesthetic parts. In seven weeks motility was restored, but sensibility was not improved. After three months' treatment both motility and sensibility were perfect. The second case was one of a wound with a knife on the left side of the spinal processes of the third and fourth and fifth dorsal