53 INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION. densely crowded contractile pus-cells, with a very few red bubbles, all imbedded in a slightly granular material. The first step in the inflam- mation is a dilatation of the arteries, which seems to begin immediately on the application of atmospheric irritation, and in ten or fifteen minutes may be very pronounced. It is uniform throughout; only here and there we may find a small spot where an artery is suddenly contracted, with an equally limited piece on the cardiac aspect of the same which is unusually dilated. The next stage, which follows more slowly, is that of venous dilatation. The final result, however, is that the veius aud arteries regain their original proportion. At the same time the rapidity of the current begins to vacillate, and after about two hours a diminution of its speed is developed. We can now easily re- cognise the outlines of individual corpuscles. It can now be seen plainly enough that the white corpuscles tend towards the walls of the vessels; at the height of retardation they seem to stick there till the next wave carries them on. In the veins the outside zone of the current, the original plasma-layer, contains countless white blood-cells. Slowly, and sometimes jerkingly, several of these enter the field, and soon come to rest at some point of the wall of the vessel, either permanently or only for a time. By degrees the whole peripheral zone of the vessel is filled with white corpuscles. "Within this wall the central red column of blood flows on with uniform rapidity. Very soon the eye is attracted by a remarkable occurrence. On the external outline of the vein there arise several small colourless button- shaped elevations. These excrescences slowly enlarge till a half globe, about as big as half a white blood-cell, seems to lie outside the vessel. Later this becomes pear-shaped, with a pedicle attached to the vessel. Fine processes and points now begin to radiate from the margin of this pear-shaped corpuscle, which frequently changes its shape; the cor- puscles move gradually more away from the vessel till their connection is severed. There is now a colourless, shining, contractile corpuscle, with one long and a few short processes, otherwise just like a white corpuscle, altogether outside the vessel. The whole process of extrusion may occupy more than two hours. In three or four hours from the commencement of this process the vein is surrounded by a single but dense ring of the corpuscles ; and a few hours later swarms of them extend on all sides, the inner row still adhering to the vessel by their pedicles, while the outermost shorten their pedicles, and get to look just like contractile blood- or pus-cells. The interior of the vessels remains unchanged. While the arteries and veins dilate, the capillaries become more distinct, probably not from dilatation, but from greater repletion with blood-corpuscles. The current in them is unchanged from the state of health, as to its direction, rapidity, and uniformity. As in the veins, there is often a stagnating layer ; but this layer contains red corpuscles as well as white. In these capillaries, in which the blood-current continues uniform, no change ensues; but whenever there is partial or complete stagna- tion we observe, in the first place, amoeboid changes of form in the