371 MYOPIA, ETC. ^ T; and among the whole number of cases, ^T.^. Thus, the mean degree of myopia steadily increases from the rural schools to the gymnasia. Among the boys the mean was ; among the girls it was ■j|.T; not a great difference. Among children between six and ten i he mean degree was ; between eleven and fifteen, -2\.^; and between sixteen and twenty, Staphyloma posterior was found in 200 cases out of the 1004. The following table shows the proportion between the degree of the my- opia and the frequency of staphyloma. Among 100 myopes from 1 3S to ;>4 . • 3 staph. !» II 1 ■ » T • 17 i» i> » 1 13 1 11 Ij . 48 it ll JJ 1 n 11 B • 65 It II 1 7 • 7i » » It 1 6 . 100 It Thus, the frequency of staphyloma increased directly as the degree 0* the myopia. With M. ^ staphyloma is the exception, and with M. \ it is the rule. There was no case of M. without staphyloma. It has been stated that there were 28 cases of hereditary myopia; and it was observed that the affection had usually been transmitted from father to daughter, and from mother to son. As inheritance evidently plays but a subordinate part in the production of myopia among scholars, M. Cohn examines the conditions which promote the commencement and progress of the disorder. They are the defective construction of the school-fittings, the insufficient lighting of the class rooms, and the use of spectacles of too high or too low power. M. Cohn has examined the school-fittings of 166 classes, with regard to the height, inclination, and size of the desks, the height of the banquette, and its distance, vertical and horizontal, from the desk, the height and distance of the bench, &c. He compared these dimensions with the average height of the pupils of the class, and found that there was never a proper proportion between them. Hence the pupils were forced to flex the head acutely upon the neck, so as to hinder the circu- lation in the efferent vessels of the eye, and to produce blood stasis in the choroid. It follows also that they were compelled to regard their work from too near a point (three or four inches), so as to make ex- cessive efforts of accommodation, attended by injurious pressure upon the eyeballs. These two consequences of a forced and faulty attitude were sufficient to produce elongation of the eyeball, and with this myopia. M. Cohn points out as the most important defects—(1) The too great distance, both vertical and horizontal, between the desk and the banquette; (2) the too great height of the banquette; (3) the insufficient inclination of the desks. And he gives designs of the model furniture introduced, under his advice, into the new schools at Breslau. Proceeding to consider the effect of bad lighting, the author finds that the proportion of myopes is always larger in direct ratio as a school is situated in a narrow street, as the opposite houses are lofty, and as the rooms are low. Thus, among the twenty primary schools at Breslau, some are situated in the wide streets of the new quarter,