97 HYSTE1UCAL PARALYSIS. vertebrae, and a blow on the right side of the loins. Paralysis of the left leg aud insensibility of the right leg immediately set in. The left arm was also numb. Three months later an almost total paralysis of the left leg and paresis of the left arm occurred. Sensibility was every- where normal on the left side. Iridic contractility and galvanic excitability notably diminished. The right leg retained its movements aud its sense of touch. On the other hand, the feeling of pain and temperature and electric stimuli was altogether lost, as also the mus- cular sensibility, but the muscular sense was intact. The analgesia ex- tended itself upwards to the angles of the ribs. The affection was seated, in Rosenthal's opinion, in the lumbar enlargement of the cord. Two months' use of faradisation of the muscles cured the paralysis of the left side, but the analgesia remained, in spite of the most intense electrical excitement, unchanged. Rosenthal remarks on the agreement of his obser- vations with those of Brown-Sequard. They establish the direct crossing of the sensitive nerves at their entrance into the cord. The crossing of the motor nerves is evidently much higher, probably in the pyramids. The course of the nerve-fibres conveys muscular sense towards the motor nerves and the different qualities of the sensory nerves and their different points of emergence from the cord. The degree of the extension of the paralysis depends on the seat of the disease. The condition of the paralysed parts as regards electricity is peculiar to true spinal paralysis. The prognosis depends on the place of the lesion (' Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk,' xiii, 47, 49, ^o, and 52 to 67). Hysterical Paralysis. Dr. Levenstein reports three cases of this affection in which the lower extremities were particularly affected with cramps, alteration of nutri- tion, whilst there were aphonia, exalted sensibility of the retina, &c, which had lasted a long time. On the theory that the sense of hysteria is the absence of will, he attempted to influence the patients bv mental compulsion. He made the patients persistently attempt those move- ments which they could not perform, and keep them up methodically till they learned to do them perfectly. He assisted the treatment by the use of tonics and cold water. The three other cases were respectively cured in seven, two, and three months. However, symptoms for some time returned, and one of the patients had a melancholic attack. Quinine in Periodical Nervous Diseases. Dr. Berthollet reports four cases of indefinite nerve pain, recurring periodically, and cured by quinine. The first was that of a young lady who, in the first place, suffered from a continuous fever with sleepless- ness, and pain in the lower part of the stomach. After this there were two attacks every day of fever and a comatose condition. Quinine at first produced no effect; the tendency to fever increased and became continuous. Quinine was now tried a second time, and a single dose of seven and a half grains produced a permanent cure. The second case was one of hysterical paroxysms, which for three mouths had come on in a young woman every evening and lasted for four hours. About 7