157 PYROSIS. the stomach or increase of the connective tissue, in the same way as peri- tonitis or gastritis may act. Paralysis also occurs in certain severe ecuto disorders, as typhus, puerperal fever, sepicoamia, the acute axanthemata, &c. The pylorus may be blocked up by hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, pathologic new formation, or cicatrices. The remarks were founded on the case of a boy who had swallowed oil of vitriol, and whose pylorus was so contracted as hardly to admit of the passage of a quill. TJllersperger ('Wien. Ztschr.,' xxiii, 1) treats of dyspepsia. The following are the forms he recognises :—(a) Forms from anomalies of innervation, (i) Neurotic stomach and gut dyspepsia; (2) Motor ditto ; (3) Dyspepsia from abnormal innervation of the secretory apparatus; (4) Dyspepsia from combined anomalies of innervation. (b) Prom anomalies of vascularity. (1) Dyspepsia from irritation; (a) Dyscrasic dyspepsia, (c) Dyspepsia of organic chemical characters. (1) Mucous dvspepsia; (2) Gaseous or flatulent dyspepsia, (d) Intestinal dyspepsia. (1) Dyspepsia per consensum, sympathetic or symptomatic dyspepsia; (2) Dyspepsia accompanying other enteric affections. Dr. Hyde Salter, in a lecture on hysterical vomiting (' Lancet,' July 4, 1868), describes the case of a girl, set. 19, who has always suffered from irregular pains and vomiting. She became much worse when she began to menstruate, and has remained so. No cause except hysteria could be assigned. The case of Dr. Kennion, of Harrogate, described by Dr. Allbutt and others ('Lancet,' July 18, 1868) is interesting. He had slight symp- toms of pieuro-pneumonia, afterwards of obstruction of the bowels. Ultimately he sank, and it was fouud that there existed tight bands uniting the colon to the gall-bladder; that openings between the two existed, as well as into a kind of cavity between them. Some of the contents had escaped into the peritoneum. No gall-stones were found. Pyrosis. Dr. H. Lawson defines pyrosis as a variety of chronic gastric catarrh, in agreement with Handfield Jones. He finds that the fluid ejected from the stomach is strongly acid. Not only in the so-called cha- racteristic pyrosis, but in gastric catarrh, ulcer, carcinoma, and irritable conditions of the stomach associated with periodic disturbance, a thick, glairy, opalescent, semi-mucous, sour liquid is with greater or less frequency ejected. This condition has been found very intractable, if not incurable. After trying a variety of ordinary remedies with no success, and the alkaline sulphites or hyposulphites with partial success, Lawson was led to try sulphurous acid. He gives it in doses of half a drachm to one drachm three times a day, shortly before meals, and he finds it produced much superior effects to those of any other drug ; indeed, it proves curative in many cases. As regards the explanation of its action, Dr. Lawson inclines to the view that its good effects are due to the production of ozone, and the destruction of vegetable germs of which there arc enormous quantities in every specimen of water- bra^jh. The idea agrees with the facts observed by Pasteur as to the