TORSION AND ACUPRESSURE. 211 riority over the ligature. When, however, union by granulation or hy secondary adhesion is desired, tying the arteries is to be preferred. Dr. Keith is entirely in accord with Prof. Pirrie as to the value of acupressure. Out of about 40 cases in which he lias used it he contri- butes 12 to this volume—3 of amputation of tbe thigh, 3 of the arm (1 at the shoulder-joint), 1 of the forearm, 3 of the leg, 1 of excision of tumour, 1 of deep perineal wound. In one of the cases of amputation of the leg (primary, after injury) death occurred on the sixth day, from phlebitis of the injured limb. No pyemic deposits are mentioned. We again give the notes of the dissection of the stump : " The flaps were easily separated; no coagulum was in the wound; one red stain, the size of a fourpenny piece, tinged the flesh at the end of the posterior tibial artery, and that seemed all the effusion of blood that had followed the closing up of the wound. The mouths of the anterior tibial, the peroneal, and the posterior tibial arteries lay open to view. Their ends were abrupt, solid-looking, not much retracted, nor in any marked degree contracted, hut filled up by organized fibrine or lymph, as solid to the look, and almost as so much to the feel, as the coats of the vessel. The popliteal artery was dissected out along with the above-named vessels, and showed on trial as perfect occlusion at the cut ends as was ever witnessed. On slitting these vessels open from above downwards, the following observations were made:—The peroneal artery was firmly plugged at its cut end for one fourth of an inch by a colourless fibrous-like tissue indissolubly united to the lining arterial coat. No conical continuation of the plug extended up that vessel. The anterior tibial was in like manner completely occluded. The vessel, when slit up, revealed a short conical continuation of fibrine pointing upwards, its further progress having, no doubt, been hindered by two small branches in close proximity passing off from the main vessel just above the tip of the clot. The posterior tibial was very effectually closed by a well-plugged mouth, and inside by a conical extension of the plug upwards to fully half an inch, the tissue composing it slightly tinged with blood, the plug and the cone being one and the same mass. " The vasa vasoram had evidently maintained the vitality of the arterial coats, so as, at once, to commence the vital and healing process of exuda- tion of lymph at the cut ends all the more readily that the cellular attachments around the vessels had never been disturbed." It is also mentioned that Dr. Fiddes has employed acupressure at the Aberdeen Hospital with equally good results. In the ' Guy's Hospital Eeports,' xiii, p. T12, Mr. Cooper Forster relates 31 cases operated on by himself or his colleagues, in which acupressure had been used. The results of these cases were very dif- ferent from those attained by Messrs. Pirrie and Keith, which Mr. Forster regards as being exceptional. Mr. Forster points out the advan- tages and disadvantages of the plan, to which he announces himself, on the whole, as an adherent, having determined " never again to use a ligature in any case where the edges of a wound are brought into appo- sition with a view to their adhesion." The condition of the arteries after acupressure is shown by two cases