16 lUSPOltT O.N PHYSIOLOGY. tension augments, and that the force of the pulse diminishes, whilst its frequency augments. The increase of tension is due to an obstruction in the thorax, on the right side of the circulatory apparatus. As the result of this obstruction there supervenes a general venous congestion, which produces an analogous state in the arteries. "With the increase of tension there is a diminution in the quantity of blood received in a given time in each part, although there is an augmentation of the absolute quantity of blood. The depression of temperature is due to the arrival of a smaller quantity of blood by the radial artery. 6. The non-depression or even elevation of tempe- rature in those parts which are not near the radial artery is due to the fact that these parts depend for their temperature upon the state of the veins and of the capillaries, and that these vessels, being very distensible, gorge them- selves with blood when an obstruction exists on the venous side of the cir- culation in the thorax, and that the total quantity of this fluid more than compensates (at least temporarily) for the diminution in the quantity of new blood arriving in a given period. 7. It is evident that the blood cannot ordinarily be cooled as much as is usually thought during its passage through the lungs, since the suspension of all the causes of cool- ing which exists in these organs does not raise the temperature over the radial artery more than i-20ooth of a degree Cent. Lombard * further finds that intellectual exertion of any kind, even the transitory excitement of the attentiou, causes an increase in the tempera- ture of the head. Severe mental work raised the temperature from one fourth to one half of a degree Cent. The changes of temperature were most conspicuous in the occipital region, and were estimated by means of a very delicate thermo-electric apparatus. Dr. Schusteiyf from investigations on the temperature of the rectum in baths of various kinds (hot-water, steam, and douche), found that immer- sion of the body in a bath of about ioo° caused elevation of the tempera- ture. In hot baths the temperature of the rectum often rose above the highest temperature of the baths. The pulse rose proportionately to 108—112, the normal being 72. The temperature fell continuously after the bath. NERVOUS SYSTEM. M. Oscar Liebreich,J from researches conducted in the chemical labora- tory of M. Wurtz, has shown that the brain and nerves contain, in abun- dance, a definite and crystallizable substance, soluble in alcohol and ether, precipitable on boiling with baryta, and yielding sugar on treatment with sulphuric acid, which he has termed protagon. This he believes plays an important physiological role in nervous action. It possesses a complex constitution, and becomes converted, under the action of alkalies, into a basic substance capable of forming definite salts with acids, and which he has termed neurine. This substance can be obtained from the brain, where it exists naturally. From its composition it enters into a class of basic substances which have been formed for some years past by making oxide of ethylene (a combination of oxygen with olefiant gas) * ' Arcliiv de Physiologie,' Brown-Scquard, i, 670. f ' Virchow's Archiv,' xliii, p. 6o, 1868. J 'Revue dcs Cours Scientif.,' v, p. 648, 1868.