OUTiYATUTE OF THE SPINE. 247 that the weight of the arms hangs all day long, through tho medium of the serratus magnus, on the ribs ; and, far more important, her breath- ing is chiefly pectoral. Now, let the ribs be regarded, in the manner above described, as powerful levers, which, under the sway of the serratus, can rotate the spine should the one muscle act more power- fully than its fellow; and consider the girl thus circumstanced, with the" right arm heavier than the left, with the right lung more capacious than the left, and it will be seen that tho serratus of the right side, being more weighted and in stronger respiratory action than its opponent, must of necessity rotate the vertebrae to the left side. This explanation will at once account for the rotation of vertebrae, and its prevalent di- rection. Moreover, a crucial proof, if I may use such a term, is found in the fact that European women, who, by tight clothing round the waist and abdomen increase their tendency to pectoral respiration, are the frequent subjects of lateral curvature; while among Hindoos, Arabs, and others who use a loose form of dress, such deformity is all but unknown. " Again, when part of one lung becomes from some local disease unfit for its function, the ribs covering that portion cease to move, and are uninfluenced by that particular serration of the muscle. Therefore the corresponding ribs of the sound side bulge backwards, and the cognate vertebrae become crooked. This is not produced by contraction of the lung on the diseased side (there is frequently rather swelling than de- crease in bulk), but from inaction of the serratus over the affected spot; the opposite parts of the muscle, therefore, on the sound side must twist the vertebrae, since their action is unbalanced on the morbid side of the chest. So accurate is this correspondence that we may fix upon the part of lung most affected, by noting the ribs which protrude on the sound side, and the locality of the spinal deviation. In curvature from consumption we find nearly always a high short dorsal curve, as in a patient recently sent to me by Dr. Cotton; in pneumonia the curve is low and long, as I have had more than once occasion to remark in cases at the Charing Cross Hospital.* u It will, of course, be remarked that in this explanation I entirely change the sequence of causality. It is usually stated that the spine first curves laterally, then rotates, and in this latter movement, by dragging with it the ribs, deforms the chest. I affirm that the ribs are primarily drawn backwards, and, acting as levers, twist the vertebra?, which in consequence deviate from the right line; according to a simple mechanical law, and yielding to the new direction in which the erectors of the spine now act; for in this rotated condition straightening the Bpine curves it naturally to the right, and in lateral curvature much of the sideways distortion is in reality extension. " In this etiology the different weight of the two arms is not nearly of so much importance as the peculiarities of the respiratory function ; * " By no other method can we account for the fact that in pleurisy, when the size of the contents on one side of the chest is increased, and afterwards, when, the lung being hound down by adhesions, their size is diminished, we still have curvature in the same direction—i. e. from the diseased side; the ribs on that side ceasing to move on respiration."