REPORT ON SURGERY. 206 that torsion interferes with primary union, and gives some examples of that method of union in wounds so treated. In the 'Brit. Med. Journal,' Aug. .3, 1867, and March 23, 1868, may be found two lectures by Dr. Humphry on the treatment of wounds. Dr. Humphry, in the first place, speaks of sutures. He says—" If the common suture be used, thread is quite as good, if not a better, mate- rial than wire. I have found that, if the parts be at all upon the stretch, the thread holds its ground longer, and causes less irritation and less ulceration of the skin, than the wire. I tested this by inserting thread and wire sutures alternately in the same wound ; and the wires, in each instance, cut their way out sooner than the threads. The threads should be so inserted that the edges of the skin are brought into actual contact by them, without any intervening fat or other tissue ; and they should not be tied tight—i. e. the portion of skin included in the knot should not be strangulated or even injuriously compressed. With this precaution they will excite little or no irritation, unless there be tension of the skin, in which case, as I have said, they will cause less irritation than wires." With regard to pressure and to local applications to wounds, he ex- presses himself thus :—" It is very difficult to adjust pressure accurately enough on a large wound to prevent the oozing of blood ; and, unless it is well applied, it is a sure cause of pain and inflammation. Slight uniform pressure might be serviceable; the well-doing of superficial wounds, which are simply bound up and sealed by their blood, indicates that it would ; but in larger wounds I have found that pressure applied in various ways, and as carefully as I could, did, on the whole, more harm than good. I have, therefore, for many years, been in the habit of leaving the wounds after operations with their edges approximated by sutures, quite uncovered and dry. The part is thus cool, and free from any external source of irritation. To the advantage of enabling us to see the state of the wound and of the skin around, this plan adds the very great comfort to the patient that there are no applications to be removed, no dressing to be done. That grave addition to the distress following an operation is spared. Warm-water dressing or a poultice, after a few days, may be desirable. We rarely resort to any other means in this hospital, and have had'good reason to be satisfied with our non-interference. I am glad to learn that the same plan is being tried in some other hospitals, and with good result." In the remainder of the first lecture Dr. Humphry speaks of the necessity for securing all vessels, believing that secondary haemorrhage generally proceeds froin the fault of the surgeon in neglecting to secure some vessels; and then discusses Sir J. Simpson's proposal of acu- pressure, giving particulars of some cases in which he had used it with success. He says, however, in his second lecture—"The presence of the needles in a wound, even for a short time, is objectionable; and their removal, just when a patient is beginning to recover from the effects of an operation, and is peculiarly sensitive to any impressions and apprehensive and distrustful of our intentions, I found to be a source of annoyance ; and I was anxious to find some effectual means of arresting haemorrhage without the necessity of leaving any foreign body