REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 416 The existence of coagulum in the right heart was clear. Dr. Play fair thinks the possibility of such a condition existing without proving f'utal had not previously been suggested. A fatal case of pulmonary thrombosis, probably caused by septicemia, is related by Dr. W. Martyn (loc. cit.) Phlegmasia dolens. Dr. Bailly relates a case. Autopsy revealed general and suppurative peritonitis ; a purulent collection in the pelvis behind the pubis; the principal veins of the left leg were completely obliterated by clots at the valvules; these clots were traced in continuity to the uterine branches of the hypogastric veins. Dr. Bailly deduces that phlegmasia dolens always proceeds from uterine phlebitis (' Bull, de la Soc. Auat. de Paris,' 1867). Dr. Barnes exhibited (' Obst. Trans.,' x) the uterus and vessels con- cerned in phlegmasia dolens. The uterus was well contracted ; the broad ligaments natural; the veins running in the right broad liga- ment were closed. The right iliac, femoral, and popliteal arteries were healthy ; the right common iliac veins, as far as tho cava, the external and iliac veins, were entirely closed and contracted. The femoral, popliteal, and upper part of the venaecomites were obstructed by coagula. The femoral vessels were matted together by adhesions. There was suppuration in the right hip-joint. Nervous Disorders in Puerpery. Dr. "VVachs ('Mou. f. Geb.,' 1867) describes a case of Jiemeralopia following labour; recovery. Mr. Curgenven (' Obst. Trans.,' ix) extols bromide of potassium in puerperal mania. Dr. Hicks (loc. cit.) says in nearly all the cases he had seen the lochia were putrid. Puerperal Convulsions. Dr. D. W. Brichell discusses this subject (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1868) with much care. He points out the distinction between it and epilepsy. Dr. A. B. Steele ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1867) discusses the treatment and the indications for and against bleeding. Dr. Casati ('Annali Univ. di Med.,' 1868) details five cases; in three, injections, hypodermic, of atropine, morphia, or quinine, were made ; they did not arrest the fits. In one case albumen appeared in the urine after the fits, there being noue before. Dr. B. Dyce (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) relates eight cases. Dr. J. G-. Swayne (ibid.) discusses the value of the old plan of free bleediug. His experience is favorable to the practice. He describes one striking case in illustration and refers to others. Dr. Weber relates ('"Wien. Med. Presse,' 1867) his experiences of eclampsia during the reproductive period of women. Dr. W. Lange relates the following:—A secundipara was admitted at the Heidelberg Clinique with oedema, albuminuria, commencing labour