323 VENEREAL AFFECTIONS. ticularly dwells upon the fact that immunity of the surface of the skin does not necessarily imply immunity of other parts or of the general system. A very interesting illustration of this fact occurred during the last year. There was a patient of Mr. James Lane's in the Lock Hos- pital upon whom Professor Boeck supposed he had produced immunity by repeated inoculation. Mr. James Lane was good enough to allow me to test for myself whether immunity had really heen produced. I inoculated some matter below the cuticle, a little deeper than the inoculations which had previously been made, but not deep enough to produce bleeding. The result was that in due course a small, well- defined, circular chancre, with sharp edges and a suppurating surface, was produced.* The surface immunity, then, in this case, did not imply an immunity for other parts. It was the surface of the skin only, and not the general system, which had become proof against one particular form of irritation. " To the list of observers above mentioned may be added the name of Dr. Eennie, whose experiments and observations Dr. Faye had not seen when he wrote his essay. These observations are referred to at some length in the ' Lancet,' on the 7th of April last, p. 362, and they en- tirely confirm Dr. Faye's experience, the only difference being that Dr. B.ennie's cases occurred almost exclusively in adults, Dr. Faye's chiefly in children. " If, then, the observations already made, supported as they are by different physicians in the most remote parts of the world, should be confirmed by future experience, we have in the phenomena of so-called syphilization only another manifestation of a common law. The surface of the skin becomes proof to a greater or less extent against the irrita- tion of specific puriform matter, as it would against the repeated action of blisters, corrosive subhmate ointment, or croton oil. But in none of these cases does the immunity to a particular irritant imply that that immunity extends to other textures besides the immediate surface of the skin; nor that irritants of a different nature would not produce their ordinary effects upon the skin itself; nor, again, that the same action might not be again produced upon the skin so soon as the im- munity should have passed off. As far as our present knowledge goes, it would, therefore, appear quite possible for a patient to become proof against the further inoculation of specific purulent matter on the sur- face of the skin, and yet to become infected with another kind of syphi- litic matter in the ordinary way, either through the skin or through some other part." In the Annali Universali di Medicina,' 1866, 196, p. 114, Dr. A. Ricordi communicates two cases of "mixed venereal ulcer." Dr. Ri- cordi professes himself to be what is called, in the language of " syphi- lography," a "duallist;" and he brings forward these cases to show that * The secretion from the pustule which preceded this sore was inoculated by Mr. James Lane, in the usual very superficial way of performing the operation. Two imperfect pustules were produced, and from these no further inoculations with the mode adopted could be made. Had the subsequent inoculations, however, been made to the same depth as the original one, a lineal series might, in all probability, have resulted.