254 REPORT ON SURGERY. galus was luxated forwards, and was almost completely out of the tibio-fibular mortice, so that its anterior articular surface looked down- wards. After relaxing the whole of the posterior tendons, it was im- possible to replace the astragalus, or to bring the calcis forwards, the latter being so firmly fixed by the external lateral ligament." Mr. Hancock proceeds thus : " It appears to me that sufficient distinction has not been made between retraction of the heel and the painful cicatrix. They have been too much mixed up together, and the painful cicatrix regarded as dependent on the retraction of the heel and the consequent pressure upon the face of the stump. They should rather be considered as dis- tinct, the one arising from muscular contraction, the other from in- sufficiency of flap and adhesion of the attenuated cicatrix to the bone. True, such a cicatrix is intolerant of pressure and liable to ulcerate, and the ulceration so produced is liable to extend to the bone beneath ; but the contraction of the heel does not produce the painful and adhe- rent cicatrix, any more than the painful cicatrix produces the retracted heel, and there is no reason why a well-formed stump, amply covered by non-adherent and movable soft parts, should not in this operation bear pressure as well as the stump made in any other amputation. Bearing this in mind, we can the more readily understand why, when this combination obtains, division of the tendo Achillis fails to produce the desired results. The heel is brought down, and the retraction is thus overcome ; but the painful adherent cicatrix still remains, and hence the disappointment. " I very much doubt whether in these cases we should at once pro- ceed to the removal of the two bones (for amputation of the leg would be quite unjustifiable), even though division of the tendo Achillis had individually failed. I would propose, prior to such an extreme measure, that, in addition to the division of the tendo Achillis, a subcutaneous separation or detachment of the adherent cicatrix from the bone be performed, and that reattachment be prevented by fre- quently moving the soft parts over the bone. By this means we may not only separate the adherent cicatrix from the bone, but, remembering the dissection of Stanski, we may at the same time cut through the'abnormal attachments of the tendons of the flexor longus pollicis, &c, to the anterior surface of the os calcis. I have never had the opportunity of putting this measure in practice in adherent and painful cicatrices fol- lowing Chopart's operation, but I have frequently done so in other cases, and with complete success." He then gives two instances in which such subcutaneous freeing of the cicatrix had been successful after other operations. In order to combat the tendency to drawing up of the heel, Mr. Hancock recommends the plan introduced by Mr. Delagarde, of Exeter, who transfixes the tendon of the tibialis anticus with one of the sutures uniting the wound, and so ensures its being attached to the cicatrix. In this way its antagonism to the great extensor muscle (the gastro- cnemius) is ensured, and the retraction prevented. If it is thought necessary, the peroneus tertius can be treated in the same way, but Mr. Delagarde considers this superfluous.