REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 3S6 a monstrous growth or morbid action may occur in one of the Graafian vesicles, and that this hydatidiform disease of the uuimpregnated ovum may be in some way connected with ovarian disease ('Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Scieuces,' Nov. 1868). Dr. Fischer relates ('Ann. d'Hygiene,' 1867) the following: — A young woman, pluripara, delivered herself in a wood, threw the infant (born alive) and afterbirth into a stream and returned to a poor-house. Two months later she passed a mass of hydatidinous placenta. At the base of the mass was a fleshy membranous substance, an atrophied placenta. Near the point of the ovum was a vesicle the size of a grain of coffee, quite different from the hydatids, attached to the walls of the ovum by a whitish cord. This vesicle was considered to be the um- bilical vesicle of an embryo that had disappeared. In this case there had been a twin-pregnancy ; one of the embryos had died and the ovum had been transformed into an hydatid mole, too adherent to the walls of the uterus to be expelled at the time of labour of the living child. If this explanation be not admitted, it must be concluded that a true superfcetation, or an impregnation subsequent to the labour, had taken place ; as the woman was in custody, the latter event was improbable. See also " Hydatid Degeneration," by Dr. F. Webb (\Obst. Trans.,' ix) and Prof. Martin ('Mon. f. Greburts.,' 1867), who describes three cases in which hydatidiform bladders were present in isolated placental villi, the embryo being completely developed; and J. K. Spender ('Med. Times and G-az.,' 1867), for a case mistaken for placenta praevia, ending fatally. Diseases of the ovum are further illustrated in the following:— Extreme fatty degeneration of placenta, Dr. Brunton (' Obst. Trans.,' ix'and x). There are some interesting observations on this subject in a memoir " On Fatty Degeneration " (' Bartholomew's Hospital Reports,' 1868), by Dr. E. L. Ormerod. A placenta displaying fibrinous deposits is described (' Obs. Trans.,' ix) by Dr. Barnes. Diffuse myxoma of the ovum-memhranes.—Dr. Breslau (' Wien. Med. Presse,' 1867). During a labour Breslau felt an elastic body resembling the head of a macerated foetus infiltrated with serum lying in the os uteri. Above this were distinct parts, something like movable cranial bones. Heart-sounds were heard. A tumour-like sac was attached to the membranes. Between the chorion and thickened amnion was a soft mass like Wharton's jelly, consisting of mucin, with traces of albumen. In some spots of this homogeneous ground-substance was a tissue of nearly sarcomatous character. Dr. Eberth describes (' Virchow's Archiv,' 1867) the same condition. His specimen came from a healthy woman. The membranes were much thickened. On the chorion were numerous fluctuating flat elevations, from the size of a pea to that of a bean. Incision through membranes showed between chorion and amnion a gelatinous mass resembling Wharton's fluid. This gave the reaction of mucin, and traces of albumen. Here and there ran fibrils of connective tissue between the membranes. The substance also held numerous spindle- and star-shaped .cells, with one or several nuclei. Amnion and chorion were very tough. The intermediate layer had altogether disappeared, and the myxo-