ItEPOllT ON SURGERY. 276 was dislocated forwards from the twelfth, tearing through the intervertebral substances, and this dislocation was associated with fracture of some portion of the arches of the lower vertebrae. The articular surfaces, however, in all the cases were singly or doubly dis- located. Of the 3 cases of fracture, in i the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebra? were comminuted; in i the eighth, ninth, and tenth were fractured through the bodies and lamina?; and in the 3rd, the twelfth dorsal with the three first lumbar were extensively fractured. "In all the seven cases in which the nature of the accident was not verified by post-mortem examination, the injury was in the dorsal region, about the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth vertebra?. " It would thus appear fair to conclude— "That injuries to the spinal column are more frequent in the dorsal than in the cervical region, but only in the proportion of 58 to 41. "That in injuries to the cervical region pure dislocation of the spine is as frequent as the combination of dislocation and fracture; that in all such injuries the intervertebral substance is torn through, the upper vertebra being, as a rule, thrown forwards ; and that where fracture takes place, it is generally at the spinous process, and not in the bodies. " That in injuries to the dorsal region pure dislocation is very rare, although it may occur ; that such injuries generally take place between the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth vertebra?; that the body of the superior is generally dislocated forwards, and the body of the inferior is as generally fractured; and that some portion of the arch of the inferior vertebra is, as a rule, broken. " One word as to the condition of the cord in these cases. In nearly all the cases of dislocation or fracture the injury was complicated with destructive change in its structure ; in at least 75 per cent., or three fourths, the cord was irreparably injured and disorganized, either by the primary mechanical pressure of the dislocated bone or by the effusion of blood within its structure." Scriveners' palsy.—Iu the • Lancet' for May 11, i867,"Mr. Solly, in commenting on a case of scriveners' palsy, in which total rest of the hand was followed by a complete cure, thus summarises the con- clusions to which his experience of this disease has led him : " From the number of cases which I have now seen, I am convinced that in a well-established case of this disease—i. e. in a case which has been allowed to progress unheeded for some weeks—I have hitherto found that entire rest from handwriting for three months should be in- sisted on ; but if the case is very recent, then I have reason to believe, from the following fact, that a much shorter time would suffice. " Within the last few weeks I was consulted by a clerk in a bank for a slight numbness in the little finger, an indisposition to write, as he expressed it, or a slight feebleness in writing, with a difficulty in closing the hand. These symptoms had existed five days, and would not have been attended to if he had not seen other of his fellow-clerks struck down by scriveners' palsy. The disease commencing with exactly the same signs, I prescribed at once entire rest, with a sojourn