483 CAFFEIN. the system henbane appears to be intermediate between opium and belladonna, possessing, as it does, on the one hand, somniferous pro- perties second only to opium itself, and, on the other hand, having an influence upon the sympathetic nervous system, as indicated by the pulse, second only to that produced by belladonna; although, like opium in some respects, its influence upon the pulse, pupils, and mucous membrane of the mouth, places it in strong contrast with that drug; and, on comparing it with belladonna, its deliriant or somniferous pro- perties are found to preponderate. Like atropia, hyoscyamia has been found in the urine twenty-two minutes after the subcutaneous injection of T'j of a grain of this alkaloid, and two hours and a half after 5'j of the "succus" were taken into the stomach. Ludwig * has recently obtained hyoscyamia in a crystalline state. Tildenf has done the same. In connection with Dr. Harley's con- clusions we may note that Delioux de Savignac has investigated the action of belladonna, J and states that it invariably acts as an excitant, and that its benumbing effects are only observed when it is given in large doses—i. e. when paralysis is imminent. Hence, as a poison, this drug is a stupefacient; as a medicament, an excitant. Through its stimulating action on the sympathetic, and the organs supplied by this nerve, it is an anodyne and antispasmodic. It assists defalcation by its action on the muscular coat of the intestines, by stimulation of the ductus choledocfois it aids the passage of gall-stones, and is especially useful in the so-called colic produced by those concretions. But the chief action of belladonna is upon the sphincters. It does not expend itself upon the dilators alone, as is often wrongly assumed, but acts also upon the constrictors; were it not so, incontinence and not re- tention of urine would be observed from its administration. The activity of belladonna in rigidity of the os uteri, and the striking results of its external application in morbidly excited states of the circulation and irregularity of the heart's action are, according to this observer, to be referred to its stimulating effect on the muscular system. Belladonna also produces soothing and resolvent effects ; for example, friction with belladonna ointment in rheumatism affords the double ad- vantage of soothing the pain and abating the swelling of the inflamed joints. The same is observed when this ointment is applied to enlarged glands. This preparation, applied to open wounds, causes gentle smarting; but here its effect is quite different from that of epispastics and suppurants, for belladonna causes rapid healing of wounds and the formation of epithelium. In accordance with this, dryness of the buccal and pharyngeal mucous membranes are the result of the internal administration of this medicament. The good results of the use of belladonna in asthma are to be attributed to the restoration of the di.-turbed contractility of the smaller bronchi. Cajfein.—Dr. M. Leven § draws from his experiments with this sub- stance the following conclusions:—Caffein directly stimulates the heart. "When first absorbed, the circulation and respiration are accelerated, * 'Arch. Pharm.,' exxvii, p. 102. f ' Pharra. Journ.,' viii, p. 127. X ' Bull, de Ther./ exxiii, p. 433. § 'Arch, de Phys. Norm, et Path.,' Jan., Feh., 1868.