VOISONMNG. 401 exhibiting the appearances of the sublimates of the principal poisonous organic bases and the effects of reagents upon them. Previously it was generally supposed that most of the alkaloids could not be volatilized without decomposition; hence the division into non-volatile and volatile organic bases. Dr. Guy, taking up the subject, has greatly expanded and improved the method, and to him we are indebted for several papers* upon it. His method of procedure is as follows :—A small porcelain crucible-cover is placed on the ring of a retort-stand. A minute portion of the suspected white substance, not exceeding the i-iooth of a grain iu weight, is placed in the centre of the porcelain; or a drop of a solution of the substance in any convenient solvent is evaporated to dryness on the crucible lid. A microscopic cell glass of the thickness of about i-8th of an inch, and having a diameter of circle of i-3rd of an inch, is then placed on the crucible-iid so as to surround the suspected matter. A clean disc of window-glass the size of a shilling is gently warmed in the flame of a spirit-lamp till moisture no longer condenses on its surface, and is adjusted with forceps over the glass cell. The flame of the lamp must now be carefully applied to the crucible cover beneath the powder, and the application of heat con- tinued until the substance undergoes its characteristic change and gives off" vapour. The deposit of this on the glass disc is watched, and the spirit-lamp removed, either directly or after a short interval, as expe- rience may determine. When a sufficient deposit has been obtained, the glass disc can be removed and replaced by a second, and so on ; as many as fifteen sublimates having been thus obtained from a minute portion of an alkaloid. Eroin these sublimates others of a second order may be obtained by a similar procedure, and there is scarcely a limit to the extent to which the sublimation may be carried. Helwig, by a somewhat ruder method of procedure, obtained crystalline sublimates from two alkaloids—veratria and solamia; whilst morphia, strychnia, brucia, aconitia, atropia, and the glucoside digitaline, yielded non-crys- talline sublimates, which, however, afforded more or less characteristic crystals when treated with various reagents. Dr. Guy, by the more careful method we have just detailed, has obtained crystalline sublimates from some of the alkaloids with which Helwig failed, and has obtained characteristic reactions of great beauty by treating both crystalline and non-crystalline sublimates with various reagents, such as distilled water, dilute hydrochloric acid, aqueous solutions of carbazotic acid, bichromate of potash, and nitro-prusside of sodium. Dr. Guy divides the subli- mates, according to their appearance, into three varieties—the crys- talline, the water 1/, and the smoked. They are best examined under an inch-power of the microscope. The sublimate of strychnia, when treated with carbazotic acid, affords, according to that experimenter, a most certain, delicate, and characteristic test for the alkaloid. The 1 tits are summed up by him as follows :—1. That the method of sub- liming substances in minute quantities on flat surfaces of glass, in order to their complete examination by the microscope—a method flrst re- commended for such poisons as arscnious acid and corrosive sublimate * 'Pharm. Journ.,' ix, pp. 10, 58, 106, 195; ' Princ. of Forensic Med.,' ^rd ed., p. 382.