387 DISEASES OF THE PREGNANT WOMAN. Burtons growth did not belong to this, but to the membranes them- selves. The liquor amnii.—Br. Clinchamps (' Graz. d. Hop.,' 1867) describes a case in which the consistency was remarkable. Diseases of the Pregnant Woman. By Dr. De Cristoforis.—The Physician to the Ospitale Maggiore, at Milan, in a very admirable report, describes preguancy as an absolute cause, direct and indirect, of disease in various organs. (1) The mechanical action of pregnancy as a cause of hydraulic derangements in the circulation; of material altera- tions in the heart, respiratory centre, intestines, kidneys, and skin, and of morbid phenomena in the peripheral nervous system. The com- pression on the iliac veins by the uterus is a frequent cause of oedema of the lower limbs and pudendum, sometimes even preventing the examining finger from reaching the os uteri. Sometimes a true morti- fication of the cellular tissues of the labia majora has resulted, leaving a fistula tedious in healing. Sometimes the vulvo-vaginal gland is involved in the phlegmon. The treatment found useful was repeated puncture of the skin, so as to drain off the effused serum from the distended tissues. A fine needle was employed. Ice relieved the irritation from the punctures. If persistent, this oedema of the pelvic tissues becomes a cause of protracted and difficult labour. He relates examples of extreme varicose dilatation of the pelvic veins, in which some relief was obtained by plugging the vagina with tow, thus supporting the distended vessels. In another order of cases trouble arises from mechanical superior arterial hypercemia, occasioned by the gravid uterus pressing upon the abdominal aorta and the bifurcation of the iliac arteries. This gives rise to an imperfect distribution of blood, in minus to the lower ex- tremities, in plus to the upper parts. The passage of the blood down- wards is impeded. A primary effect of this is hypertrophy of the heart, stimulated to stronger efforts to overcome the mechanical obstacle. He thinks this has more influence than the simple physiological nisus aroused to supply the growth of the embryo and uterus, which Larcher thought was the main cause of the cardiac hypertrophy of pregnancy. He generally discovered a soft prolongation and a blowing character in the first sound of the heart in pregnant women, independently of all organic fault. This disappears after labour. Following upon this distress of the centre of circulation come bronchial catarrh, pulmonary oedema, serous diarrhoea, albuminuria, general subcutaneous oedema of the upper parts. He describes the pulmonary oedema thus :—From the fifth to the sixth month there begin cough and slight difficulty of breathing, increasing with the advance of pregnancy, and almost with- out febrile symptoms; catarrh disturbs rest, and the patient has to sit up in bed at night; bleeding, even repeated, gives onhj short and illusory lenefit. At the end of the eighth month the oedema of the lower parts has extended to the upper, fits of dyspnoea cause increased distress, digestion is impaired, the strength is lowered, and a serous diarrhoea aggravates all. Two or three weeks before the term the patient com- plains of wandering uterine pains, as of preparatory contractions. A