119 1'HTHTSIS. now steadily improved aud iu four and a half months from the operation was entirely cured. The operative treatment of empyema in such cases as this is the more important, as experience has shown that absorption of the pus easily produces tubercle, especially in subjects who are predisposed to it. In the so-called cases of empyema necessitatis the operation is yet more plainly required, and the prognosis is very favorable where it is done (; Deutsches Archiv f. Klin. Med.,' 4, 1868). Phthisis. The pathology, and in consequence the prognosis, of this disease have received, important additions and modifications during the past two years. The results of the various researches which have been recorded above, on the subject of tubercular inoculation, have added the last links which were necessary to the proof that under the word phthisis— used roughly, for destructive pulmonary disease attended with wasting —there are really included a variety of disorders with most important differences in their essential nature. Several things have become abun- dantly clear. The most practically important of these is the fact that wasting disease, attended with cheesy deposit in the lungs, may cer- tainly, and in truth very often does, result from a mere neglected catarrhal pneumonia or other inflammatory affection, in which there is increased cell-formation within the finer bronchial tubes, which extends itself to the alveoli, and that a considerable proportion of such cases are curable. Secondly, that miliary or grey tubercle (to which the term "tubercle" increasingly tends to be limited) is, in the majority of instances at least, altogether a secondary production, the result of absorbtion of infective matters of various kinds, of which cheesy matter from luDg deposits is, perhaps, the most common. It is apparent that the advent of true tuberculosis, in a case previously distinguished only by cheesy deposits and by more or less constitutional hectic, is the commencement of a new and much more dangerous state of things, from which recovery rarely, we may practically say almost never, occurs. A third series of facts which have been brought into great and possibly exaggerated prominence are those which are observed in a class of cases distinguished by a special tendency to fibroid changes within the lung. Only a few observers maintain that these cases form an entirely separate group; yet in a prognostic point of view it will certainly henceforth be of the highest consequence to note the fol- lowing group of phenomena:—Limitation of deposits to one lung ; slow progress of the disease; absence of fever and sweating; tendency to retraction of the chest wall. Finally, it may be noted that there is a greatly increasing tendency to consider hesmorrhar/e as a comparatively unimportant occurrence in pulmonary disease. So far from its having that serious or even almost necessarily fatal augury which was ascribed to it by some of the most distinguished classical authorities not many years since, it is the ten- dency of recent observation to associate haemorrhage rather with a curable class of cases, and to regard it as frequently affording a harmless and even beneficial relief to mechanical congestion.