REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 144 but healthy; hut the aorta was extremely atheromatous, with cracks and fissures of the bony plates in every direction. No orifice by which the blood might have escaped could be discovered. MM. Beaugrand and Kelsch (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1868, p. 28.3) recount an interesting case of rupture of the aorta. Tlie subject was a soldier, who had just come off a long and trying march, lie was sud- denly seized with general malaise, cold, and sinking; taken to the hos- pital, he vomited a great deal of greenish material, and his bowels were relaxed. Thinking he had been seized with malarious fever, quinine in large doses was administered. His pulse was quick, the action of the heart feeble, but regular and normal; this gradually diminished in force, the patient becoming cold and livid ; finally, he sunk. On opening the pericardium a great quantity of serum and clotted blood was found. The heart was sound, but the surface of the aorta presented several little nipple-like projections. When the vessel was opened these were found to correspond to little indentations in the wall, occasioned by slight deficiency in the central coats of the vessel, for the inner one was entire, except in the case of the largest depression, where existed a small hole, with difficulty discovered, and not larger than a pin. Through this—for no other opening existed—the blood had escaped. When the vessel was filled with water, none could be forced through the opening at first, as it contained a small clot. Dr. W. S. Playfair (' Lancet,' July 20 et seq., 1867) writes on throm- bosis of the pulmonary artery as a cause of death in the puerperal state. He tabulates in all 25 cases, and records two new ones. Dr. Playfair advocates the view that these are cases of thrombosis, not of embolism. That the latter comes on at a much later period after delivery (about 15 days). That the cause of the one coagulation most probably is similar to, if not identical with, that of the other. That both are most common in weak and anasmic people. That obstruction of the pulmonary some- times occurs without being fatal, and that both thrombosis and embolism are more common in primipara? than multipara?. Dr. Bourdon relates (4'TJnion Medicate, i, 1867, p. 250) an in- teresting case of plugged iliacs, causing paralysis, and ending in gan- grene of the lower extremities. The patient was a dressmaker, set. 22, who had led rather a fast life, but had never been ill till recently, when she was seized with cholera in the couutry. Anxious to return home, she travelled a long distance, and that night was extremely breathless and couched much, for after the cholera she had been seized with some affection of the lungs. Next day she was in much the same state, but the day following she was seized with coldness and extreme pain in the lower 'limbs, resembling that of cholera. They rubbed her legs, but they were flaccid, immovable, and insensible to friction. Next night she was much the same, only she perspired abundantly. The left leg was colder than the right, but she no longer complained of either. The right limb could hardly be moved, but it was quite warm, and the beats o "the popliteal could be felt. Then gangrenous spots were discovered on its inner aspect. The left limb was movable only by the pelvic muscles; it was deadly cold, and of a violet colour ; but there was no smell and no phlyctena?. The arterial beats could not be felt. She