LIGATURE OF ARTERIES IN INFLAMMATION. 285 current circulation was not to be weighed against the great advantage of curing, or at least controlling, the inflammation—indeed, saving the limb and the life—by the ligation of the main arterial trunk which supported this inflammation." Thus it will be seen that Dr. Campbell's proposal refers exclusively to cases of haemorrhage, and that he teaches that in cases of secondary haemorrhage after gunshot, when the parts around the wound are much inflamed, the Hunterian ligature will in many cases avail, both to check the bleeding and subdue the inflammation. The following statement of the results of his practice puts this clearly before the reader. The extract is a reproduction of Dr. Campbell's remarks in the ' Manual of Military Surgery' above referred to. "After the battle of Seven Pines, May 31, 1862, many of the wounded in the General Hospital at this place (Richmond, Va.) suffered from the most violent and uncontrollable inflammation. The inflammation from gunshot wounds, for sufficient causes, viz. the shock or jar to all the tissues, especially the nerves and blood-vessels of the part, is apt to be more intense than in other wounds of the same parts. Wounds of both the upper and lower extremities resisted all ordinary measures of treatment. Suppuration inj many cases had ceased, and in its place a bloody water was discharged from the openings and abrasions. The swelling in these cases was immense. " Six of the above cases* under our observation were the subjects of arterial lesion. The arteries wounded in the lower extremity of three of these cases were severally—in one, the peroneal close to its origin; in the other two, the anterior tibial, near the middle of the leg. Profuse secondary haemorrhage occurred in all these cases, respectively, on the fourteenth, twelfth, and tenth day. Ligation was determined on. The extreme swelling and inflammation of the limb, extending even above the knee in all, and in one marked by large patches of incipient gangrene on the foot, presented great embarrassments to the operation at the seat of lesion. It was not the difficulties, however, which caused Mr. Hunter's operation to be preferred in all of these cases to Mr. Guthrie's, notwithstanding the risk of recurrent haemorrhage. There was a de- sirable incidental benefit hoped to be attained, which was of even deeper interest, if possible, than the arrest of the haemorrhage. The idea pur- sued, in departing from the rule, was no less than the experimental effort to cure the inflammation in the limb by cutting off its arterial Bupply, by ligation of the main trunk which supported the inflamma- tion. The femoral artery was tied in each case near the apex of Scarpa's triangle. The haemorrhage ceased immediately in all three of the cases, the swelling began to decline within twelve hours, and in three or four days the limbs were reduced to very nearly their natural size, the discharge having changed from bloody water to healthy pus. ''Results.—Case 30 (J. M. Orr, of present paper), recovered slowly, on account of the sloughing out of the patches of gangrene, which had shown themselves previous to the ligation. These surfaces granulated * See Reports of tst, 2nd, and 4th Georgia Hospitals, in office of Surgeon-General— Ligation of Arteries.