ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY 01' THE EYE. 34-1 tension ranged from 120 to 420. Glaucomatous tension was considered to commence at 300, and iridectomy usually produced a permanent reduction of 50, w hether or not the tension was previously in excess. The use of atropine usually produced a diminution of from i° to 30. Further observations upon this subject will appear in the forthcoming number of the ' Reports of the Netherlands Ophthalmic Hospital.' Prof. Donders, in an elaborate paper on "Binocular Vision and the Perception of the Third Dimension,"* details the reasons, and describes the experiments, by which he was led, for many years, to believe that the perception of a third dimension was impossible while the eyes were stationary, and that it was entirely due to the movements of convergence by which they were directed in succession to different parts of the object. More recent experiments have led him to modify this view. He finds that many persons can recognise the third dimen- sion, or the relative position of the parts, of an object seen only by the instantaneous light of a single electric spark; and hence he concludes that there must be an inherent power of perception of this matter, inde- pendent of ocular movement, and prior to experience. Some persons, however, require more than one spark before they obtain a correct notion; some require many. Hence he concludes that the original faculty differs in degree, and is capable of being improved by cultiva- tion, and aided by the information gained by movement. He concludes with some speculations concerning the nature of, and the relations between, sensations and perceptions, which he commends to the con- sideration of physiologists. The space here available does not admit of any adequate expression of his views. Prof. Heringf writes to rebut some of the objections made against his experiments by Donders, and to correct an erroneous account of his conclusions. The subject of accommodation has produced two important pamphlets. MM. Hensen and C. Voelckers,J professors respectively of physiology and of ophthalmology in the University of Kiel, have instituted an elaborate series of experiments upon the mechanism of accommodation, by exposing the ciliary ganglion and other nerves in living dogs, narco- tised by the subcutaneous injection of morphia. They have also removed portions of the eye itself, in order to observe the movements of the ocular structures. They report a to-and-fro movement of the choroid and retina to the extent of half a millimetre ; and their obser- vations fully show the therapeutical value of an agent which, like atropine, arrests this movement. They have been able to see distinctly the increase in the posterior curvature of the lens during accommoda- tion, and they give an exact account of other movements concerned in this function—an account which the space here available will not allow me to reproduce. Prof. Coccius§ describes the results of the careful examination of eyes that had undergone iridectomy, and in which * 'Nederlandsch Archiv,' i, 1866; 'Archiv fur Ophthalmologic,' xiii; ' Aiinales d'Oculistique,' 1867. t 'Archiv fur Ophthalmologic,' xiv, 1. X ' Experimentaluntersuchung iiher den Mechanismus der Accommodation,' Kiel. 1868. § 'Der Mechanismus der Accommodation des menschlichcn Augcs,' Leipzig, 1868,