INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION. 51 cially colchieum. The latter should only be given when the attack is irregular and protracted, and should then be combined with quinine and digitalis. In all other cases this remedy acts badly, especially in interfering with the general health, producing more or less cachexia ('Bull, de Therapie,' lxxii, pp. 93, 241). Inflammation and Suppuration. The most important researches on this subject which have been made for many years are those of Cohnheim. In an elaborate paper ('Virchow's ArcMv,' Sept. 1867) he brings out the following facts. Referring to the researches of His and Struve, he illustrates the results of artificially produced inflammation of the cornea. It is generally believed that under these circumstances the stellate corneal corpuscles increase in size and develop either by splitting of the nuclei and cell- substance, or by the production of young elements from within, which are pus-cells. 3Iore careful examination shows that the new cellular elements are not only pus; on the contrary, it can be seen that the ordinary cor- puscles of the cornea are present in exactly their ordinary distribution. The pus-cells exhibit a great variety of shapes, corresponding with their natural contractility. At a later stage the stellate corpuscles are also seen arranged in successive parallel layers, with the pus-cells irregularly dispersed among them. The curious fact, however, is observed, that the pus-corpuscles change their places ; by reason of their contractility they migrate. The question now arises, whence are the pus-cells derived ? They may either have come from the migrating lymphoid elements pre-existing in the cornea, or may have migrated from without. Putting aside for the moment the case of simple artificial traumatic keratitis, as to which Cohnheim arrives at results not materially different from those of earlier observers, we may refer to his special experiments npon irritation applied at the centre of the cornea. If this be touched with solid nitrate of silver so deeply as to destroy the epithelium, and the surplus nitrate washed away with a solution of common salt, the dead part, under the influence of light, will become brown, the rest of the cornea remaining transparent. After twenty or twenty-four hours, however, there is a narrow pale ring round the slough, and at a distance from it, separated by a broad piece of transparent tissue, we observe a cloudy, pale grey streak, while the centre remains unchanged. The external streak increases in size, both as to width parallel to the margin of the cornea, and especially towards the centre. On the third day the cloudiness has usually reached the slough from the upper margin in a wedge-shaped form, and somewhat later a similar wedge joins the centre from the lower border, while the inner and outer portions of tho cornea may remain slightly or not at all affected. Later on, whilst the opacity around the slough becomes deeper, the periphery becomes con- stantly more clear; and.on the fifth or sixth day there is only a milky or yellowish-white ring around the cauterized part, while the whole periphery ia quite clear. Microscopically examined, the tissues show the following appear- ances :—At first the only important changes are in the grey marginal