REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. GO temperature; sudden fall of temperature followed abundant vomiting of blood. In tbe first hours of the disease the pulse was full and hard, and from 100 to 120, but it soon became soft and small, and if it remained like this for several days was a bad omen. In favorable cases the pulse fell simultaneously with the temperature below the natural standard. This fall also occurred when there was no jaundice. The latter symptoms were usually present at the beginning of the disease. The face was generally very red. There was seldom any sweating, but a warm sweat usually ushered in recovery, and a cold sweat foreshadowed death. In severe cases the eyes were glittering and dejected. Dissec- tion usually showed that the brain was congestive in those cases. The stomach was commonly distended, so as to obscure the normal percussion sound of the liver; vomiting of bilious matters of food or of water occurred in the early stages of the disease. Vomiting of blood was always dangerous and generally fatal, but usually occurred on the fourth and fifth days. 'No apparent changes of the liver could be detected during lifetime. The kidneys occasionally not only secreted albumen and bile, but sometimes also blood. In severe cases there was suppression of urine. Of nervous symptoms, besides those mentioned above, there were jactitation, somnolence, stupor, convulsions of various kinds. The severe symptoms usually corresponded with a high degree of jaundice or albuminuria; they were probably dependent on bad blood- making. Convalescence occurred suddenly, but it was dangerous to omit the proper diet. Death occurred as a consequence of collapse from vomiting, or of increase of the nervous symptoms, or of haemor- rhage into the pleura'and pericardium. Dissection always showed paren- chymatous degeneration of the liver, with destruction of liver-cells and degeneration of kidneys, fatty changes in the heart, effusions of blood under the skin and mucous membranes; more rare were effusions of blood between the muscles, small laryngeal effusions, laryngeal apoplexy, haemorrhage into the pericardium and infarction of the lungs ; the intes- tinal glands were not swelled. The mucous membrane of the stomach showed countless small bloody effusions when there had been vomiting of blood, but there was no serious anomaly of the vessels (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 138, p. 303, 1868). Typhus. Dr. H. Zorn has made a number of experiments, in consequence of Willibrand'8 recommendation of the iodine treatment in typhus fever, to test this method. He tried it carefully in 14 cases, 6 of which were slight, 4 medium, and 4 very severe. There were 6 deaths, 2 of which were directly from typhus fever and 4 from complications. He compared these cases daily in regard to the maximum and minimum of temperature and pulse with the average of the same in 69 cases of the disease treated by expectation. He found that the maximum temperature on any particular day was sometimes higher under the iodine treatment, and sometimes with no treatment at all. The maximum pulse-rate fell