REPORT ON SURGERY. temporo-maxillary vein were tied. The patient recovered completely, and was well as long as heard of, though much disfigured by the facial paralysis. The paper concludes with a description of the malignant tumour iu each of the above cases; and, as a contrast, the history is given of a non- malignant tumour extirpated from the parotid region, and commencing apparently in disease of one of the lymphatic glands which are found imbedded in the parotid. Successful extirpation of an h/pertrophied spleen.—In the ' Gaz. MecL de Paris,' 1867, p. 779, will be found the account of a successful opera- tion, by M. Pean, for the removal of an hyperfcrophied an dcystic spleen. The operation was performed on Sept. 6, 1867, on a young female, set. 20, much reduced by two years' illness. The malady was mistaken for ovarian disease, the swelling occupying the hypogastric region, and exactly resembling the pregnant uterus, and being surrounded on all sides by organs resonant to percussion. Paracentesis had not been employed, but it was afterwards ascertained that the fluid exactly re- sembled that of an ovarian tumour, so this would not have assisted the diagnosis. The incision was made in the linea alba, from the umbilicus to the pubes, and the cyst punctured through the omentum, which was too closely adherent to be separated. Three "litres" of a viscous, yel- lowish-brown fluid were evacuated. The hand was then introduced, aud it was discovered that the cyst was independent of the ovaries, kidneys, or mesentery. The incision being extended two inches above the umbilicus, it was ascertained that the spleen was the diseased viscus. The surgeon determined to remove the spleen, but the un- favorable position of the wound and the great size of the tumour obliged him to do this in two parts. Remembering the fact that the arteries do not anastomose in the different portions of the spleen, he tied those which were distributed to the cyst and the large veins which crept over its surface (one of which was as large as the thumb) as near as possible to the front portion, and then removed two thirds of the spleen without any effusion of blood. The second stage cousisted in excising and then cauterising with the actual cautery the remaining third, which was done after placing four metallic ligatures on the gastro-spleuic omen- tum to embrace all the other vessels, as far as possible, from the great end of the stomach and the tail of the pancreas. The wires were cut short and left in the abdomen. The wound was completely closed. The operation lasted two hours. The portion of the spleen in which the tumour was implanted weighed more than two kilogrammes. She made a good recovery, and had been seen in perfect health by M. Nelaton and other medical men. The report is about two months after the operation. The only direct consequence of the operation seems to have been painful oedema of the left limb, which was transitory. She also suffered from facial neuralgia and epistaxis, but soon regained com- plete health. Bryant, excision of the spleen for leucoci/lhcemia.—In the 1.3th vol., 3rd s'er. (1868), of' Guy's Hospital Reports,' p. 411, Mr. Bryant relates