360 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. outer side, was another wound, one centimetre long, dividing the tunic entirely, and allowing the choroid to he seen. Both incisions healed perfectly, and no impairment of vision was produced. Professor B. von Langenbeck* describes the case of a railway guard, who was bruised between a tender and a locomotive, receiving the shock on the right side of his face. The upper eyelid was torn transversely and horizontally, and detached as far as the outer border of the orbit. The lower lid was separated from the internal palpebral ligament. A deep wound extended from the internal canthus to the upper lip. The eye had disappeared, the nose was flattened and turned to the left. Seven days after the injury, the swelling having subsided, the eye was discovered to be dis- located into the antrum, through an opening large enough to admit a finger, and with the cornea downwards. The eye was replaced, and sight was retained. In two months cicatrization had so altered the position of the eyelids that they covered the eye entirely, although its vision and movements were retained. A plastic operation restored the eyelids to their place and their mobility; but, eighteen days later, the eye became painful, and the cornea suppurated. Dr. Paul Schroetert has met with a case of traumatic anaesthesia of the retina in a schoolboy t5 years old. The patient received a slight wound over the right cornea from a splinter of iron, and was the subject of small congenital cataract in both eyes. The corneal wound soon healed, but the boy complained of great impairment of sight in the eye. The acuteness of vision was found to be reduced to i'2ooth, and the diameter of the field of vision, taken at 18 inches, to 4 or 5 inches. Through light blue glass the vision increased to rioth, and the diameter of the field to 10 or 12 inches. The phosphenes were perfect in the equatorial region. The ophthalmoscope showed only the central vessels, especially the veins, very full, and this condition was present in a less degree in the other eye. The treatment consisted ot* the exclusion of light, by a bandage or by a dark room, nourishing diet, and lactate of zinc. In ten days recovery was far advanced. The author attributed the loss of sight, not to the corneal wound, but entirely to the concussion of the eyeball, and suggests that the dilatation of the retinal vessels supports v. Graefe's hypothesis of the influence of the vaso-motor nerves in such conditions. Dr. Joseph Talko,J of Tiflis, relates a case of traumatic anaesthesia of the retina in a young soldier. The patient received the discharge of 14 a gun, loaded with a mixture of powder and sand, in his face, from a i distance of four feet. His cheek was burned, the left cornea slightly abraded, and the sight of the left eye wholly lost. He was treated by the subcutaneous injection of a solution of nitrate of strychnia, aud made a good recovery. A case of traumatic rupture of the iris aud retina is recorded by Dr. Dohmen,ยง and one of traumatic rupture of the retina and choroid by Dr. Samiseh,|| whose patient, a carpenter, re- J ceived a blow on the head and cheek from the strap of a steam engine. . His sight remaining impaired on that side after other symptoms had subsided, an ophthalmoscopic examination was made, and discovered several rents in the retina and choroid near the equator, at the lower aud * ' Archiv f. Ophth./ xiii, 2. t ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. X Ibid., 1868. ยง Ibid., 1867. || Ibid.