19 NERVOUS SYSTEM. sensory nerves supplying it, to regulate its size according to circumstances, bv exerting a reflex action on the general circulation ; and we can under- stand the mode in which the balance is maintained between the central and the peripheric circulation. If the sensibility of the walls of the heart be excited by too large a supply of blood, an energetic reflex action occurs, which dilates the capillaries and attracts the blood to the periphery. If, on the contrary, the internal sensibility of the heart is too feebly excited, the peripheric vessels contract and the blood regurgitates to the circula- tory centre. Aubert and Eoever* have very recently made a series of experiments in reference to Ludwig and Cyon's depressor nerve, and upon the influence of the superior laryngeal nerve on the frequency of the pulse, and on blood-pressure in rabbits, cats, dogs, and lambs, previously placed under the influence of woorara. They found that in rabbits the effects of irrita- tion of the centric extremity of the divided vagus usually diminished the pressure of the blood in the vessels, though it sometimes exalted it. In cats the same experiment produced a diminution of pressure amounting to as much as 50 per cent. In dogs, in which animals the vagus and sym- pathetic usually run together, stimulation of the artificially separated vagus caused a diminution of pressure to the extent of 30 per cent. When the conjoined nerves were irritated there was, on the other band, a constant exaltation of pressure. These results, so far as regards the blood- pressure, were equally observable whether tbe nerves of botb sides were cut through or whether only one vagus or vago-sympathetic trunk was divided. Tbe effects, as regards the frequency of the pulse, however, dif- fered under these two circumstances. If one cut vagus or vago-sympa- thetic were stimulated retardation of the pulse always occurred, but if both were divided no retardation occurred. Whence they conclude that the retarding influence caused by excitation of the vagus on one side is transmitted to the medulla oblongata, and thence down through the corresponding nerve of the opposite side. Excitation of the sym- pathetic trunk alone in all these animals always caused exaltation of blood- pressure, but no alteration in the frequency of the cardiac beats. Excita- tion of the upper extremity of the superior laryngeal nerve in dogs, cats, and lambs, usually caused an increase in tbe blood-pressure, without re- markable change in the frequency of the pulse ; but in exhausted animals of these genera and in rabbits no effects were noticed. MM. Kowalewsky and Adamiik,f after careful investigation of the neck in cats, have only been able to discover an isolated depressor nerve in five cases out of more than fifty. When present, however, its excitation caused diminution of the pressure of tbe blood in the arterial system and retardation of the cardiac beats. In order that the latter effect should be produced it was necessary that one vagus should be intact. Excitation of the peripheric extremity of the divided nerve was inoperative. The vagus in these animals constantly possesses depressor fibres, even when an isolated depressor exists. These are also contained in the trunk of the vagus fibres, the excitation of which occasions, not diminution, but exalta- tion, of arterial pressure. * 'Centralblatt,' 1868, p. 545. t Ibid.