25 MUSCLE. Baxter* finds that in March and April i grain of frog's muscle can raise 445 grains 1.53rd of an inch high, whilst in June and July r grain can raise 60S grains through the same height. This is in accord- ance with the statement of Schmulewitsch.f that, within certain limits, the higher the temperature cf muscle the more work is it able to per- form with equal weighting and stimulus. FickJ finds the power possessed by 1 grain of frog's muscle is 5000 millimetre-grammes ibr one single contraction. Rosenthal § estimates the absolute muscle-force for the muscles of the frog at from 2-3 to 3 kilogrammes for each square centimetre in section.° Koster|| estimates it at 10 kilogrammes for each square centimetre for the muscles of the leg, and 7-4 fur those of the arm. An interesting series of lectures, the last he delivered, by M. Mat- teucci, on electro-physiology, are contained in the ' Eevue des Cours Scieutifiques' for 1868. In regard to the point at present under dis- cussion, he found that the gastrocnemius of a frog weighing about 0-320 grains, with a weight of 100 grammes, raised it in contraction to a weight of 0 84 mm., with a weight of 70 grammes to 1-270 mm., and with 10 grammes to 1-412 mm. Trom these numbers he calculated that the mechanical work of a single contraction is expressed by 0 00001457 kilogramme. M. Mareylf has shown that the rapidity with which muscles respond to direct irritation varies much in different animals, being extremely slow in the tortoise, quicker in the frog, and very rapid in birds; but they all respond alike to electrical, mechanical, or other excitation oi their nerves, and the movement thus produced he calls a shake or shock (secousse). An ordinary contraction consists of a series of shocks, which succeed one another at very short intervals. He compares it to sound, and just as a single vibration of a tuning fork cannot be called a note, but to produce this there must be a succession of vibrations, so a single impulse cannot be called a true muscular contraction. If a muscle be excited by a succession of electrical excitations, more and more closely approximated in point of time, it may be shown that the contractions gradually fuse one into another, so that the separate shocks are replaced by a state of immobility of the shortened muscle, the muscle not having time to relax before another shock commences. Considerable differences, nevertheless, exist amongst different animals. Thus, if a bird's muscle is irritated by 75 electrical sparks in a second, it still displays, when made to register its movements on a revolving cylinder or disc, a series of vibrations ; whilst the muscles of a tortoise are thrown into a state of almost uniform contraction with only 3 electrical shocks per second. Similar phenomena can be produced by mechanical irritation ol the nerves. When the muscles of a frog are acted on by strychnia, it may readily be shown that the apparently rigid condition of its muscles ia due to a aeries of impulses in which the muscle has not time to relax before another one commences. Taking advantage of the fact that * ' Archives of Medicine,' iv, pp. 298 and 326. t ' Centralbla'.t,' 1867, and ' Med. Jahrbucher Deutsche,' i. % 'Virchow's Jahrsbericht' for 1867, p. 80. § f Comptes Rendus,' Ixiv, p. 1143. || ' Archil Neerlandaises,' ii, No. 2. % ' K. d. C. Sc.,' iv, 1867, p. 214.