REPORT ON SURGERY. 250 They are to be used with great caution, and from time to time the sur- geon must watch them, lest any awkward trick in their performance render them useless or injurious." The diagnosis between curvature primarily dor3al and that primarily lumbar depends, according to Mr. Barwell, on the relative projection of the thorax and pelvis, the former being the essential character- istic of the primarily dorsal as the latter is of the primarily lumbar curvature. The treatment of the primary dorsal curve is not described in this series of papers. The second series of lectures on the anatomy and surgery of the human foot by Mr. Hancock, late Professor of Anatomy and Surgery at the Eoyal College of Surgeons, will be found in the ' Lancet' for June 6, 1867, and numerous subsequent numbers. We offer the following abstract. The first lecture refers to excision of the ankle-joint. Mr. Hey, of Leeds, is said to have performed, in 1766, the first authentic resection of the lower ends of the tibia and fibula for compound disloca- tion—an operation which is attributed to Hippocrates; and in 1792 Moreau performed the first excision of the ankle for disease. The operation succeeded, and was followed by a few other recorded cases in France. Mr. Hancock claims for himself the first operation for " ex- cision of the ankle" in the strict sense ef the term, though he allows that, if in that term be included the removal of portions of the foot, whether including the joint or not, Liston, Wakley, Teale, and others, have preceded him. After a brief sketch of the partial excisions of the foot, performed in 1847 and I85o by Mr. Thomas AYakley, Mr. Hancock describes the original operation, in which he excised the ankle-joint, and which was performed in Feb. 1851, as follows : " I commenced the operation with an incision behind, and about two inches above the external malleolus, carrying it forwards beneath that process across the front of the joint, and terminating about two inches above and behind the inner malleolus. This incision included the skin alone, without implicating the tendons or their sheaths. The flap thus formed was dissected up, and the peronei tendons were detached from the groove behind the fibula and cut through, as were the external lateral ligaments close to the fibula, with a pair of bone-nippers. I next divided the fibula about an inch and a half above its inferior extremity, and, cutting through the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments, detached the external malleolus. Now turning the leg on to its outer side, I cut through the internal lateral ligament, carefully keeping my knife close to the end of the tibia, to avoid the posterior tibial artery. The ten- dons of the tibialus posticus and flexor communis were then detached from the groove behind the internal malleolus, and taking the foot in my two hands, the late Mr. Avery, who assisted me, holding the leg, I next dislocated the foot outwards, thus bringing the end of the tibia with the internal malleolus prominently through the wound. These were removed by the common amputating-saw, applied half an inch above the horizontal articulating surface of the tibia, the soft parts