428 REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. the peripheral layers, hut also of the medullary suhstance and of one half of the cerebellum, may run their course without any disturhance of the motor or sensitive spheres. How can such contradictions be reconciled ? It appears that the multiplicity of the brain and meningeal tubercles disposes much more to latency of the symptoms than does isolation, just as, for example, an isolated neuroma is almost always the cause of the most violent neuralgia, -whilst cases in which thousands of neuromata appear simultaneously in different nerves run without any pain. The diagnosis of latent tubercle of the brain may be drawn from the fol- lowing considerations. In children who, together with tubercular de- generation of the lymphatic glands and of the lungs, with symptoms of caries of the petrous bone, with or without facial paralysis, and in the course of a normally or abnormally running tubercular meningitis, die, tuberculosis in the brain or cerebellum may be assumed with great probability, even when it has not been revealed by the ordinary symp- toms. The occurrence of secondary changes in the surrounding brain- substance, especially of haemorrhages and softenings, is not rare. He relates a case of malacia in the neighbourhood of miliary nodules. A child, set. K, of tubercular family, had frequent headaches. After a severe headache she was seized suddenly in the night with an apoplectic attack, loss of consciousness, which disappeared in a few minutes, then hemiplegia of the left side, including the left facial nerve. Speech unaffected; pupils normal. Diagnosis.—Tubercles in the right brain, with extravasation in the neighbourhood. On the fourth day vomiting appeared suddenly, with great elevation of temperature. Later, con- vulsive phenomena appeared in back and nucha (opisthotonos), the muscles of the eye and extremities, especially in the left leg. Death. Autopsy.—Basilar meningitis; scanty granulations of the Sylvian fissure ; much serum in the dilated ventricles ; the central portions and the Avails of the ventricle not softened. The outer and under part of the right thalamus opticus had run into a grey-red pulp, in which yellow nodules, the size of a pin's head, were plainly seen. Miliary tuberculosis of the lungs. He relates another case of especial interest in which the disease was limited to the corpus quadrigeminum. A child, fifteen months old, had measles six months before, followed by cough and emaciation. The border of the liver stretched two fingers' breadth below the right ribs. Diagnosis.—General tuberculosis, with fatty degeneration of the liver. Suddenly an unusual fixity of the eyes was observed; both eyes were directed outwards ; the movements of the bulbs upwards was impossible, the lateral movements not hindered; the pupils much enlarged and sluggish. A frequent snatching of the head backwards was observed. Aiterwards vomiting appeared; then somnolence, paresis of the right arm, strong pulsation of the fontanelle, irregular pulse of 72, respiration 60, frequent changes of colour, indicated basilar meningitis. Next day the right arm and leg were paralysed, as well as the palpebral and labial branches of the facial nerve; convulsions set in, and advancing sopor ended in death. Autopsy.—Basilar meningitis; pia mater, also on the convexity, infiltrated with turbid serum ; numerous granulations in the fossa Sylvii, several in the choroid plexus; the ventricle distended