459 VOISOXING. Camus,* who fouud 15 grains (1 gramme) to be a fatal dose for a rabbit. The following notes refer to the poisonous action of gases: Carbonic oxide.—Eulenberg abroad, and Dr. Gamgee in this country, have made new experiments with this gas, and record their results. The former observer finds that the blood of animals poisoned by car- bonic oxide exhibits a characteristic spectrum, even after aspiration of the dissolved gases by the air-pump; and that blood which has been treated with the gas, and allowed to dry, shows the same spectrum after the lapse of a month. In this he merely confirms Bernard's researches. Dr. Gamgee gives an able summary of his own researches and those of other observers, in their bearings on the function of the colouring matter of the blood, and in their application to medical jurisprudence. It is in the latter aspect that they will now be discussed. Having ascertained that blood forms with CO a definite compound, CO-Hb, the physical characters of which are identical, or nearly so, with those of 6-Hb, but which differs from the latter in being in- capable of yielding a less oxygenized substance when treated with reducing agents, it has also been determined that the florid colour of CO blood is not due to CO-Hb ; for if pure ciwstallized haemoglobin be dissolved in water, and the solution saturated with CO, whilst CO-Hb is formed (as is shown by the spectrum), the colour is only slightly heightened, and differs in toto from the colour of CO blood. These facts lead Dr. Gamgee to think that the peculiar coloration produced by CO in blood is due in great measure to an action on the physical characters of the blood-cells. After exposure to the vacuum of a good air-pump, and even after evaporation to dryness at 1400 Pahr., CO blood is still irreducible. It, however, gives up its CO when treated with acetic acid. Do, then, these changes supply us with a means sufficiently accurate and delicate to warrant its employment in medico-legal investigations; and do similar changes occur in the blood when charcoal fumes have caused death? In poisoning by pure CO gas, Dr. Gamgee has invariably found, iu experimenting on rabbits, dogs, frogs, and mice, that the peculiar coloration was induced in the blood; and not only was it observed in the blood, but likewise in special vascular organs. The remarkable carmine-red injection of the liver in CO poisoning is, indeed, a most striking appearance, and is quite cha- racteristic. The kidneys, too, are usually of an exceedingly florid colour, and the muscles have a beautifully pink coloration, which, if once seen, can never be forgotten. He has also found the blood, in all cases of CO poisoning, either wholly or partially irreducible; but where it was partially so the reactions with reducing solutions were sufficiently characteristic to enable a certain opinion being given as to the cause of death. Since the cases of poisoning by pure CO are likely to be extremely rare, whilst cases where death has been caused by the fumes of charcoal, coke, or coal, do from time to time occur, a correct solution of the second part of the question, viz. as to whether, in poi- soning by charcoal fumes, the changes occur which are characteristic of * ' Gaz. llebd.,' Aug. n, 1865.