8 ItEPOKT ON PHYSIOLOGY. not able in any instance to discover the plexus of fine vessels said by Letzerich to be situated between the central lacteal and the absorptive organs, and to be a means of communication between them. Ofh'nger,* whilst admitting the presence of port-wine-glass cells, considers they result from gradual changes taking place during life in the ordinary cylindrical epithelium covering the villi, as various intermediate forms may be seen. Arnstein and Knaufff express a nearly similar opinion. Th. Eimer J and M. Schultze§ deny that the port-wine-glass cells of Let- zerich are absorbing cells, but regard them as the agents for secreting the intestinal mucus. The power of the pancreatic fluid to effect the digestion of albuminous substances seems to be now fully established, and has been corroborated by the experiments of Kiihne,|| Diakonow,^"Fudakowski,** Schwerin.tfand II. Senator4J Besides peptone and parapeptone, leucin, and perhaps tyrosin, are generated. According to Kuhne, it is not necessary, as Henle believed, that the fluid should have an acid reaction for digestion to take place. It does not appear improbable that, as S. Radziejewski§§ endeavours to show, the process of saponification may play a more important part than is usually attributed to it in aiding the absorption of oleaginous substances. Radziejewski believes he has proved that soaj)s can be absorbed and can again be converted into fat in the organism. Liver. — Some attention has been paid to the structure of the liver, which, notwithstanding the carefully made injections of Dr. Beale, does not appear to be even yet fully elucidated. Accolas,|||| in opposition to almost all recent inquirers, maintains that the biliary ducts end in blind extre- mities at the surface of the acini of the liver. Kolliker,^[ on the other hand, coincides with Hering in believing that the ultimate biliary ducts penetrate into the interior of the lobuli, and there form a system of com- municating tubes, which he describes as presenting a remarkable type of structure. They possess no membrana propria, but appear as channels, formed by the apposition of grooves excavated along the sides of the hepatic cells, the cell-wall of which, extremely delicate elsewhere, is here slightly thickened. Each cell, therefore, on this view, forms part of the wall of several tubes, whilst each tube is bounded at any part of its length by two cells. The capillary vessels chiefly occupy the angles of junction of three or more secreting cells. Biliary colouring matters.—Max Jaffe*** has investigated spectroscopi- cally the fluid resulting from the action of nitric acid on bile, and describes a broad absorption band between C and D, but nearer the latter, which divides on dilution into two, while a third subsequently appears between * 'Reichert's Archiv,' 1867, p. 337. t 'Virchow's Archiv,' xxxix, p. 442 and p. 527. % Pamphlet, 1867. § 'Archiv £ Mik. Anat.,' iii, p. 204. || ' Archiv f. Path. Anat. u. Physiol.,' xxxix, p. 130. H Hoppe Sevier's ' Med.-Chem. Unters.,' Heft ii, p. 241. ** ' Central'blatt,' 1867, No. 35. tt Dissert., Berlin, 1867. *t ' Virchow's Archiv/ xliii, p. 358. §§ Ibid., p. 268. Illl Thesis, Strasbourg, 1867. Tnf See Humphry and Turner's ' Journal of Anat.,' ii, p. 163. *** ' Centralblatt,' 1868, No. 16.