215 LOCAL ANESTHESIA.—LITHOTOMY. of temporary compression by forceps or loops of wire for the ligature or acupressure. Local anesthesia.—With reference to the production of anaesthesia by the ether spray a case under Mr. Lawson's care is reported in the 'Lancet,' May 25, 1867, in which au abscess existed behind the mamma. As the pus was very deep (under the pectoral muscle, indeed) the refrigerator -was used, paraffin ether being employed. Congelation was rapidly produced, and kept up for a few minutes. The result lias been that a portion of skin, about an inch by three quarters of an inch, over the upper part of the breast, has sloughed, and its healing will necessarily be attended by an unseemly scar. The case is cer- tainly exceptional; but the circumstance is worth remembering when exposed parts of the body are to be operated upon. The following selections refer more especially to operative surgery. Modification of the operation of Celsus for lithotomy. By Sir W. Fergusson.—In the 'Lancet,' July 13, 1867, p. 42, may be found a de- scription of a method of lithotomy employed by Sir W. Fergusson at King's College Hospital, and which is thus described : " The ordinary curved staff was introduced into the bladder, and held as if for lateral lithotomy. The operator then plunged his knife into the right side of the patient's perinaaum, nearly an inch below the anus, and about midway between that aperture and the right ischial tuber- osity. The knife then—its cutting edge being upwards—was carried over the anus and down again on the other side to a position corre- sponding to that where it commenced. In this way a lunated cut was made, the concavity of which was directed vertically downwards. The forefinger and middle finger of the left hand, with their dorsal surface looking up, were then directed horizontally forwards, so as at once to push back the rectum out of harm's way, and to embrace between them the bend of the staff, furnishing thus an effective guide to its groove, which the knife then entered, and completed the operation ex- actly as if for lateral lithotomy. The difference, indeed, between the process here employed and the usual one lay in the outer cut, which, instead of being directed downwards and outwards from the raphe of the perinamm, formed a crescent which included the anus. The posi- tion of the staff, the deep incision, and the use of the forceps, were the same as those ordinarily employed." The advantages of this method of operating are thus reported by the ' Lancet,' in the words of the operator: " The especial advantage of the lunated incision was that the cut was formed in exactly the widest part of the perinseum, and it was, of course, of great moment to secure the widest space. It was an imita- tion of the direction and situation of Nature's outlet in the other sex— the vagina—as the median operation might be considered an imitation of the direction of the vulva. Sir William thought that the combina- tion of a lunated cut and the use of the staff Bhould be fairly tested. He pointed out the advantage gained by being able to introduce two fingers between the rectum and the staff, pushing back the rectum out