VALVULAR DISEASES. 139 larities of surface. Its muscular fibres were almost completely destroyed, and replaced by irregular yellowisb masses, firm, and projecting on the surface. These masses gave, on scraping, a yellowisb juice like those of cancer. They extended into the posterior part of the right ventricle and into the right auricle, as well as into the inter-ventricular septum. The anterior portion of the right ventricle was healthy. In the interior of the left ventricle were many vegetations, smooth and rounded. The valves, cords, and papillary muscles were healthy. The right ovary appeared as a whitish mass of considerable weight and consistence. Its shape was ellipsoidal and its surface irregular. The left ovary was much smaller, but resembled the other in appearance. The other organs were healthy. The microscopical examination was made by Cornil. The masses were shown to be cancerous, and the muscular tissue of the heart was fatty where not replaced by cancer. The case of Dr. Kay, of Dulwich (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 7, 1868), is of interest. For many years he had been the subject of loud cardiac bruit, but had suffered little or no inconvenience from it; it was infra-mammary ,and had been variously described by different physicians. His last illness began with chills, nausea and vomiting, weakness, and general malaise. He thought he was going to have fever. A fortnight after this attack he had occasional chills—followed by drenching acid sweats, slow pulse, a furred tongue, a sallow dusky hue, pain over the region of the liver, and complete absence of bile in the motions. By the fourth week it was evident that he was suffering from pyaemia, and it was supposed that he was the subject of pylophlebitis. The rigors all through were so marked as to induce in Dr. Bay at one time a belief in the existence of ague. The patient became more and more prostrate ; there was difficulty of breathing, with expectoration tinged with blood. He finally died after two months' illness. The spleen and kidneys con- tained embolic infarctions, the spleen being partially softened. The heart was large, and its valve3, with one exception, healthy. In the mitral aperture was a projection from the posterior curtain about the size of a walnut, and a quantity of softening fibrin and clot were attached to its summit. This was a sac formed in the valve, which had an orifice at the apex and a recent rent, on whose edge was the disintegrated blood and fibrine. The sac had, in all probability, produced the bruit, and its rupture had given rise to the fatal termination by causing disorganiza- tion of the fibrin and poisoning of the blood. Finck ('Presse Med.,' xx, 28, 1868) gives an account of a case of ulcerative endocarditis occurring in a girl, set. 13, who had suffered long from diseased knee-joint from which pus was discharged by a fistulous opening. Amputation was resorted to, and in four weeks the stump was healed; in two weeks more the child showed signs of general cedema, there was a slight systolic bruit, and difficulty of breathing followed; gangrenous erysipelas of the left thigh succeeded, which in its turn left a sore which bled at the least touch when it left off producing pus. This ended with rigors, semi-consciousness, and slight jaundice, and the child died. The lungs were found sound, the lower part of the left congested; the liver yellow, in a condition of rapid fatty degeneration. The kidneys were congested and enlarged. All the cavities of the heart