IUSSPlltATiOX. 13 In a branch of the same + 9" In the crural vein . . . . . • • • + 11 '4 The pressure always rose with muscular exertion. No respiratory in- fluence could be observed beyond the crural, brachial, and facial veins, and not always in these. BESPIRATIOtf. Cleland* opposes the views enunciated by Hutchinson, to the effect that the external intercostals, and those portions of the internal which are placed between the costal cartilages, act only as elevators of the costal arches, the remaining internal intercostals acting only as depressors. He appears to regard both the external and the internal intercostals as muscles of inspiration. The cause of the respiratory movements has commonly been referred either to the presence of carbonic acid in the air contained in the air-vessels, or in the blood acting as a stimulus on the extremities of the pneumogastric nerves. Pfliiger-)- shows that, whilst an increase of carbonic acid acts as a stimulant either on the extremities of the vagus or on the medulla oblongata, increasing the depth and frequency of the respirations, the essential condition affecting the respiratory movements is a deficiency of oxygen, the movements becoming feeble in proportion to the amount of oxygen introduced into the system, till, if it rise above a certain amount, they may cease altogether, whilst they become stronger in proportion to the diminution of the supply of this gas. In a later paperj he adduces new evidence to show that dyspnoea is essentially occasioned, not by increase of carbonic acid in the blood, but by deficiency of oxygen; attributing the effect, not to the direct influence of the absence of oxygen on the nervous system, but to the accumulation of certain easily oxidizable materials in the blood which the oxygen present is insufficient to burn off. He admits, however, that the presence of an excess of carbonic acid in the blood also tends to produce dyspnoea. Pfliiger, nevertheless, details an experiment, in which it is rather the presence than the deficiency of oxygen or excess of carbonic acid which appears to excite the nervous centres. It is as follows :—If the belly of a pregnant rabbit be laid open, the foetus are seen lying without respiratory movements ; on de- taching the placenta regular respirations do not, as might be expected, occur, but only occasional efforts at inspiration, especially if the animals be pinched, and they gradually die. If, however, the membranes be opened, so that when the inspiratory efforts are made air enters the lung, lively respiratory movements occur, which soon become regular. Here it would appear that the entrance of oxygen constitutes the stimulus that excites the respiratory acts. Burkart § states that an inhibitory influence may be exerted on the re- spiratory movements by excitation of certain sensory fibres which course centripetally in the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Absolute stoppage of the respiratory movements may be induced by sufficiently strong irrita- i tion of these fibres. The infl uence of the inhalation of various gases on the respiration has * Humphry and Turner's ' Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,' i, 1867, p. 209. t ' Archiv f. gesaramte Physiologic,' i, 1868, p. 61. ♦ 'Pfliiger's Archiv d. Gesammte Physiol.,' i, p. 106. § Id., p. 278.