479 CINCHONA BARKS AND ALKALOIDS. during the second stage, become considerably enfeebled. Very curiously, if less than a fatal dose have been given, the animal exhibits a reverse order of symptoms, as has been observed after the administration of strychnia and curare. This return of symptoms is, in frogs, independent of the circulation. The heart slackens its pulsations, and even stops, more quickly in the ruddy than in the green frog; and it is quite exceptional for the heart to cease beating in the latter animal. The lymphatic hearts are more susceptible to the action of veratria than the systemic heart; and when this latter ceases to beat it stops with the ventricle in the contracted condition. "Veratria appears to produce no direct action on the brain, spinal cord, or nerves. It appears to produce a direct action on the muscles ; these contract on direct excita- tion when the nerves supplying them are severed from the cord and irritated, and again by reflex action through the cord. Though strychnia and veratria both produce tetanus, there is a profound differ- ence between the two poisons, for veratria diminishes sensibility. Prevost has been unable, however, to determine whether this is caused by an action on the nerves of sensation or on the cord. The pheno- mena exhibited lead him to conclude that the administration of veratria may be detected in forensic practice. Finally, veratria has a special action not exhibited by any other poison ; it modifies muscular contractility, whereas these abolish and destroy without modifying contractility. Dr. P. Guttmann * has likewise experimented with veratria with the especial object of determining the effects of the alkaloids on the muscles. As his results have chiefly a physiological interest, we forbear from a detailed account of them in our limited pages. Cinchona Barks and Alkaloids.—The Madras and the Bombay Cinchona Commissioners have respectively issued their preliminary reports on the febrifugal value of cinchona alkaloids other than quinine. The alkaloids used were quinidine, cinchonine, and cinchoni- dine, all being furnished as sulphates in a pure state by Messrs. Howard. The main conclusion of the Madras Commission is that the alkaloids hitherto but little valued in medicine are scarcely, if at all, inferior as therapeutic agents to quinine. The Bombay Commis- sioners report that the cinchona alkaloids are febrifuges, antiperiodics, and tonics, their general effects being similar to those of quinine, though, perhaps, in an inferior degree. They are very efficacious in the treatment of the common fever of the country, hemicrania, dis- ordered digestion, &c. The relative value of the alkaloids in the order of their efficacy appears to be quinine, quinidine, and cinchonidine and cinchonine about equal. As variously estimated, the three latter alkaloids possess the same therapeutic properties as quinine to the extent of from one half to two thirds. Mr. Broughton, in reporting to the Indian Government on the cinchona grown on the INeilgherry Hills, speaks very favorably of the yield of alkaloids from the different kinds of bark grown in the Govern- * ' Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys.,' iv, p. 494.