THE CONTAGION OF PULMONARY PHTHISIS. J 27 facts ill support of this position. Iu one case, a medical student, a>t. 50, went home to Ins family with consumption. On his death his foster- brother received his clothes. Ho had been quite healthy before, and there was no phthisis in his family. In a year's time, however, he showed all the symptoms of tho disease, which was rapidly fatal. In the second case a somewhat feeble youth married a woman of strong constitution and of healthy family, and died a year after marriage, of consumption. His wife was confined, and seemed to be recovering well during the life of her husband, but scarcely had he died when she deve- loped consumption. Iu the third case a fine and strong woman, set. 33, was somewhat superstitiously observant of religious exercises. She caught cold at church, and it became evident very soon that she was consumptive. Her twin sister unfortunately took to wearing her dresses during the latter part of her illness. She was very soon attacked with the same symptoms, and died six months later. In the fourth case a young woman, of lymphatic temperament, but tolerably strong, had a most abundant secretion of milk after her confinement, so as to be ex- tremely exhausted. At her next confinement the child proved very weak, and died of tubercle in the mesentery. The mother soon deve- loped signs of consumption, which proved fatal. She was attended with great care by a strong and healthy servant, who had never shown the least chest affection. A month after her mistress's death this girl became undoubtedly tuberculous, and died a year after her mistress. The husband of the latter for a long time had symptoms of bronchitis, which seemed as if they would pass into consumption, but there is reason to think that this did not depend on any contagious influence. Another case was that of a young man who became consumptive, and his mother, of 60 years of age, and not at all apparently disposed to tubercle, almost immediately after his death developed signs of phthisis. She died in about three years. The author feels no doubt that these and many other cases, rightly interpreted, go rather to show a tendency of phthisis to spread by con- tagion than a community of hereditary influence producing the same disease in various members of the same family. He thinks that the most dangerous circumstances are those in which a healthy person sleeps with a consumptive patient, and thus constantly breathes the same air. He does not pretend to say in what manner the tubercular matter effects its contagion, but he points out that phthisical patients exhale a very peculiar odour, a circumstance which is also noticed in the diseases which undoubtedly do propagate themselves by contagion. In those cases where clothes seem to have carried the contagion wo are at a greater loss to understand the process; nevertheless, the fact seems indisputable. The author, however, admits that the whole theory of phthisis miasm is a mere hypothesis; but that the disease is contagious he has no doubt. The practical consequences of this belief are important. Healthy people should never sleep with consumptive persons, and in cases where the poverty of the family renders it diffi- cult to provide separate accommodation there is a strong case for cha- ritable interposition. Tho use of the clothes of consumptive persons should also be strictly forbidden. No doubt we have not proved our