REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 26 muscles become thicker in proportion as they shorten, he has experi- mented on the human subject by placing the arm between two plates (constituting his pince Tnyographique), the degree of separation or approximation of which is registered on a revolving disc by means of some ingenious mechanism. Similar results to those above mentioned are obtained. Some important investigations have been undertaken by Dr. Ludimar Hermann,* with the view of explaining the phenomena of electrotonus and of the electrical currents naturally existing in muscle and nerve on a chemical theory. The chief results arrived at by Dr. Hermann are briefly the following:—(i) Frogs' muscles, deprived of blood, removed from the body, and disturbed as little as possible, contain no oxygen capable of being removed by the air-pump, but a small quantity of N is certainly present, apparently taken up by Dalton's law of absorption, and also small quantities of free and combined CO2, the latter, in all probability, not belonging to the muscle itself. By the gradual or sudden supervention of rigor mortis, or of tetanus, a considerable quan- tity of free carbonic acid is developed in the muscle, but the proportion in the latter case is always less than that in the former. If rigor mortis succeed tetanus the quantity of CO2 produced in the rigor mortis is less in proportion to the quantity developed during the period that the muscle was in the tetanic state. In jmtrefaction a different production of gases occurs, especially resulting in the formation of carbonic acid and nitrogen in determinate but variable proportion. He finds that the absorption of oxygen by the muscles of frogs deprived of blood depends upon a process of decomposition that commences immediately after removal from the body, and especially occurs at the free surface of the section. It increases as decomposition advances. No con- sumption of oxygen can be demonstrated to take place in the muscles during life ; if there be any, the quantity must be extremely small. The absorption of oxygen is increased by movement of the muscle, which brings it into contact with fresh portions of air, but no increase of absorption can be shown to occur as the result of contraction ; if it be present, it is very small. (3) The extrication of carbonic acid from the muscle detached from the body depends in part on disintegrating pro- cesses taking place at the surface, but in part also upon the excretion of physiologically formed C02; the latter portion is demonstrable as soon as its increased formation occurs iu the muscle, as the result of rigor mortis or contraction. Exposure to an atmosphere of oxygen may postpone the death of detached muscles, perhaps through a small, though not proven, absorp- tion of oxygen, or through a more complete elimination of C02. This effect of 0 is not observable if the muscles are kept permanently con- tracted. Coetaneously there exists a death-hastening power of the O, by its action on the superficial layers, which in thin muscles may even preponderate. H, N, NO, and CO are indifferent gases towards muscle. C02 acts upon it like other acids, only more slowly. The operation of N02 gas is not ascertained. * ' Untersuchungen iiber den Stoff-wechsel der Muskeln,' &c, Berlin, 1867, and < Weitere Untersuch. zu Physiol, der Muskeln und Nerven,' 1867.