359 INJURIES TO THE EYE. Dr. Berlin,* among 7573 cases of eye affection, in the course of five years, saw 26 cases in which foreign hodies had penetrated the vitreous, five in which the body was in the iris, and four in which it was in the lens. The intruding substance was discovered in 11 cases after enucleation, twice by the ophthalmoscope, once by the unaided eye, and twice by its extraction. The diagnosis rested either on direct evi- dence or on the history and attendant symptoms. The largest sub- stance found was a pellet 'of lead, 3^ lines in diameter. The author analyses the symptoms, and mentions any that were important. De- tachment of the retina might be produced primarily by sub-retinal haemorrhage and consecutive exudation; or, secondarily, by retraction either of the altered vitreous, or of a sclerotic cicatrix. It may also appen in a third manner, analogous to that which has been observed by Samisch, after rupture of the choroid. This form of detachment appears only some months after the injury, and is a slow but direct effect of a wound of the posterior segment of the eye. Five cases are cited in support of this opinion. In 11 cases in which the author bllowed the course of the foreign body there were 9 in which it ad reached the posterior segment of the eyeballs. Among these were iti which it had rested imbedded, and 6 in which it had rebounded, the other 2 it remained in the sclerotic wound. In the 9 cases the posterior wound was on the same level with, or more elevated than, the anterior wound; and in 2 cases, in which the cornea, lens, and retina, were all traversed, the three wounds were in a straight line. The foreign body was twice observed to retraverse the vitreous by re- flection, so as to be near the lens. The number of the cases was too small to allow of a conclusion as to any influence of the course of the foreign body in the production of sympathetic ophthalmia, but the other eye was sympathetically affected five times out of the twenty-six. Dr. Schiess-Gemuseusf details his experiments on the eyes of three rabbits, into which he introduced respectively pieces of iron, of wood, and of caustic, through wounds in the sclerotic. All the eyes under- went rapid and complete disorganization, with detachment of the retina, but the details are of little interest. LubinskyJ records experiments on the eyes of rabbits in order to study the healing process after wounds. Dr. !Schiess-Gemuseus§ relates also 2 remarkable cases of injury to the eye. In the first the patient received a severe blow from a piece of iron. When seen, four days afterwards, there was a horizontal wound of cornea and sclerotic, 4^ fines in length. The lens and its capsule, and nearly all the iris, had disappeared. The wound healed favorably, and so much vision was preserved that fingers could be counted at 8', and large objects recognised by the aid of a convex lens. The second patient was a boy of 13, who exploded some gunpowder in a glass flask, and was wounded by fragments. On the following day the author found an oblique, nearly horizontal, incised wound, commencing in the cornea, and a centimetre and a half in length, extending along the sclerotic on the nasal side. Prom this wound a piece of glass was re- moved, and another from the conjunctival sac. In the sclerotic, at the * ' Archiv f. Ophthalmol./ xiii, 2. f Ibid. 1 Ibid. i 'Klin. MonatsbL,' 1867.