08 REPORT ON PRACTICAL HEDIC1NB salt, the administration being continued till repeated percussion on the abdomen assures us that faecal masses are present, especially in the colon. He says that these enemas produce striking amendment. D uring the period of intestinal paralysis he sometimes gives one or more large doses of ipecacuanha. Viseur pays no attention to heating the body externally; on the contrary, he finds that the patients like the windows open from morn- ing till evening. He does not believe in frictions. If there are cramps, he opposes these by extension and counter-extension of the muscles by skilful attendants ('Journ. Med. de Charprat,' 1867). Scarlatina. The length of the incubation period in various diseases is discussed by Dr. Besnier. On the subject of scarlatina he collects the following opinions. Frank, from his own observations, assigns the period of five days, without denying, however, that it may be shorter, such as even two days, or occasionally may be rather longer. EilHet and Barthez only state in general that the incubation of scarlatina is shorter than that of smallpox. Empis agrees with various authors in putting it at from 24 hours to 12 days. A considerable number of cases of scarlatina have been known to have a short incubation period; for instance, Trousseau observed once an incubation period of 24 hours', Gintrac observed once a case of 24 hours', and auother of 36 hours' incubation. Roger quoted similar facts in the discussion which took place at the Academy (' Gaz. des Hop.,' lix, 1868). Smallpox. The incubation period of smallpox is very variously stated. Dr. Besnier remarks that the invasion occurs in some cases immediately after contagion. According to Stoll and Boerhaave, the period varies between 5 and 7 days. According to Marsh, between 4 and 8 days, in cases of inoculated smallpox 5 and between 5 and 21 days in natural smallpox. Guersant and Blache observed cases from 4 or 5 days, but in some cases as long as 20 or 23 days. Rilliet and Barthez put it at 1 to 4 or 6 days. Bouchut puts the period at from 6 to 14 days for children. Crusoe at from 8 to 11 days. Gintrac from 10 to 16 days. The latter believes that the period is of various length according as the children are constantly exposed to the affection or only come in con- tact with it momentarily. The only conclusion that can be formed from these statements is that the average incubation period of small- pox is from 1 to 2 weeks ; and although Barthez has fixed as a minimum duration of the period 4 days, it is by no means certain that it may not be in some circumstances yet shorter ; and besides this, it is question- able whether the incubation is the same in vaccinated persons and those who are not vaccinated, or whether the varying intensity of the con- sequent disease does not correspond to a longer or shorter incubation ('Gaz. des Hop.,' lix, 1868).