no REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the open door is almost indispensable. The bed, mattress, pillows, &c, should be of hair; no feathers are admissible. The pillows should be large and square, and the bedstead should stand out in the middle of the room, and no curtains should be allowed. Change of place is gene- rally troublesome, and should be avoided. During an attack, smoking a cigarette of mixed tobacco and stramonium often gives great relief. Ether or chloroform are sometimes employed for the same purpose. Dr. Hyde Salter communicates to the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 5, 1868, a very good paper on the diagnosis of dyspnoea. Dealing with the different forms of dyspnoea, he selects that of asthma as the type, and cardiac dyspnoea as coming nearest to it. In both the dyspnoea is paroxysmal j in both it is most apt to occur during the night; in both the recumbent posture is intolerable, and as the disease is aggravated by exertion, the patient is fixed and cannot move. Dr. Salter thus contrasts their distinctive characters: In Heart Disease. The paroxysms are of a few minutes' dura- tion. The dyspnoea, is gasping, or panting, a breathlessness rather than a difficulty of breathing. The respiration is hurried, the movements deep, the rhythm unaltered. The patient feels as if dying. Exertion is sufficient to cause a paroxysm. The paroxysm is not followed hy expecto- ration. Emotional excitement tends to induce a paroxysm. There is no true periodicity. In Asthma. The paroxysms may last hours or even days. The breathing is tight, constricted, and dif- ficult. The respiration is often slow, the move- ments superficial, and the expiration prolonged. However difficult the breathing, the patient feels there is no danger. Exertion alone will not cause a paroxysm. Each paroxysm, as a rule, passes off with expectoration. Emotional excitement tends to cure, and often does so completely and suddenly. Periodicity often well marked. Dr. Salter then proceeds to draw other distinctions between these two, as to the nature of the paroxysm and the effects of food, the period they last, and the relative frequency of dropsy. He next proceeds to separate bronchitis from asthma. In Bronchitis. The typical sounds are moist. Cough is always present. Winter is the worst time of the year; often the only lime. Cause catarrhal. Sputum more or less purulent. Severe dyspnoea never evanescent. Often ends in dropsy. In Asthma. The typical sounds are dry. Often there is no cough. The hot weather of winter and summer is the worst time. Cause emotional, dietetic and various. Sputum, if any, non-purulent. The severest paroxysm may come and go quickly and suddenly. If uncomplicated, never produces dropsy. As to the distinctions between emphysema and asthma, Dr. Salter arranges them as follows: