REPORT ON SURGERY. 204- " In malignant disease, of which I have treated 11 eases, the results of the process are, as might have been expected, far less favorable. Wherever the cancer is one of considerable size, and growing rapidly, the pain may be relieved, and the further growth of the tumour be con- siderably checked, by the electrolytic treatment; but I have not hitherto obtained a cure of such patients. In 2 cases of scirrhus of the breast, where the constitution was apparently not suffering, and where the tumour was only of the size, in one of a tilbert, and in the other of a nutmeg, the swelling has entirely disappeared; although, of course, I am not prepared to say that a cure has been effected. For the healing of an open cancer, the treatment seems to answer very well; I must say, however, that in no case of malignant disease have I ever trusted to electrolysis alone, but have prescribed at the same time powerful remedies to be taken internally, for modifying the constitution of the patient, such as bromide of potassium, belladonna, and quinine. Perhaps in course of time a more continuous application of the electrolytic pro- cess may be discovered, by means of which we may be able to starve out even malignant tumours with more success than has hitherto been obtained. "The only'part of the electrolytic operation which is at all unpleasant to the patient is the introduction of the needles through the skin. I, therefore, always use the ether spray, unless the patient himself objects to it. To some patients the smarting of the ether is more unpleasant than the prick of the needles, but in the majority of cases the ether spray is preferred. The galvanism itself is almost, or even entirely painless, if judiciously applied. The length of the application should vary according to the nature of the case. For small tumours 2 or 3 minutes are frequently sufficient; for large ones 15 to ,30 minutes are preferable. In the latter the best plan is to apply the current every day for some time ; but I have also obtained satisfactory results where it was only done twice or three times a week." Dr. Collis supports Dr. Althaus's views as to the uses of electricity in surgery, and he has further applied it to produce the wasting of tumours by the application of a mild continuous current of electricity through them. The following is Dr. Collis's account of his method and its results. The battery employed was the simple voltaic pile, com- posed of a dozen or more couples of zinc and copper, an inch and a half square, or of small cylinders, or plates of wood covered withlfelt and wrapped round with zinc and copper wire. These simple batteries were excited by salt and water or by sulphuric acid, in the proportion of 1 to 20 of water. The mode of application was as follows. The tumour was covered with a plate of zinc, perforated zinc, silver foil, copper, or copper plated with silver. The positive pole was connected with this plate; the negative pole with a plate of copper, which was brought into contact with the skin of the back or other convenient part. The battery, tied up in gutta-percha paper, or oiled silk lay on a table, or was tied round the waist of the patient. The results were as follows :