REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 450 more rarely were phosphorescent. Diarrhoea may even be followed by constipation. Jaundice, which seldom comes on before the third day, is a pretty constant symptom ; but as it is never very intense, it appears to have been usually overlooked in the earlier recorded cases. Hyper- trophy of the liver was diagnosed in a few cases, but in only one' case was it observed to be followed by atrophy. Attention has only re- cently been attracted to the spleen; but, where this has been examined, it and the liver have been found to increase in size simultaneously. The very slight degree of pyrexia present at times in the early stage appears to have been due to local action of the phosphorus. The rapidity of the pulse (130 to 140), in the later stage, is perhaps owing to fatty degeneration of the cardiac muscular tissue. Albumen is occa- sionally present in the urine, and biliary colouring matters usually. In experimenting upon dogs the bile acids have also been found in that secretion. No peculiar affection of the sensorium was ever noted, and this only becomes affected through general blood-poisoning. Disorders of the nerves of sensation and of motion, and of those of special sensa- tion, were never absent, though no diagnostic indications could be drawn from them b'eyond lassitude and extreme weakuess. Clonic spasms and general convulsions were sometimes observed. Excitement of the sexual organs seems to be induced only through diuresis and irritation of the urinary passages. In noting the post-mortem appearances described by Schraube, we shall confine ourselves to those observations which appear to be novel. The jaundice was never confined to the skin, but extended to the scle- rotic and to the serous membranes generally. It appears to be due to catarrh of the biliary ducts, is consequently obstructive, and caused by the reabsorption of bile. The signs of irritation and inflammation often found in the intestinal tract do not appear to be caused by local action of the poison, but rather to be due to its specific action, for Senftleben has produced the same internal appearances by the local application of phosphorized oil to wounds. The now well-known condition known as gastro-adenitis is then described, and a thickening or " cartilaginous" state of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane. Fatty degeneration of the organs and tissues generally is next described minutely. Gene- ral ecchymosis is pretty constantly met with, and appears to be merely an indication of general blood-poisoning. Schraube is of opinion that phosphorus becomes oxidized in the body, and that the resultant acids may act as poisons ; also that phosphorus may be absorbed unchanged, and afterwards being converted into phosphoretted hydrogen, this may act poisonously. MM. Eulenberg and G-uttmann recommend carbonate of copper and peroxide of hydrogen as antidotes for phosphorus. Conceiving that the toxic effects of this substance are due to its vaporization, and not to the acids generated by its oxidation, our object should be to prevent this vaporization, and consequent diffusion of the phosphorus. Car- bonate of copper, being reduced by phosphorus, achieves this. Per- oxide of hydrogen, which is now a common article of commerce, acts in a totally different and indeed antagonistic manner. Yielding up half its oxygen, it acts as a powerful oxidizer. The two antidotes must be