REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 10 lymphatic hearts in the eel and frog are of much interest, lie describes their intermittent character, the propulsion of their contents into the vein, and the consequent momentary interruption to the current of blood in the latter. The fibrils of which these hearts are composed may be termed unstriped, rhythmically contractile, muscular fibrils. ABSORPTION. Demarquay,* like Savory, found that iodide of potassium was more quickly absorbed by the rectum than by the stomach. The experiments of Ritter,f Clemens, J and others, show that but little, if any, absorption takes place through the skin when the body is immersed, even for con- siderable periods of time, in baths containing various salts, such as iodide of potassium and the sulphates of soda and of iron, in solution. After the infrication of these, however, in the form of ointment, their presence can readily be demonstrated in the various secretions. M. Ch. Hoffmann § arrived at different results. He found that various salts and vegetable infusions penetrate certainly, but very slowly, into the body by the external integument, and that it is only when the blood and other liquids are saturated with them that they are discharged from the organism. He believes that all medicaments are not absorbed to the same degree by the skin, and that the contradictory results obtained up to the present time show only that the experiments have not been con- ducted for sufficiently long periods of time. M. Hoffmann took sixteen baths or more, carefully washing his skin every time, the experiments ex- tending over six weeks. In one of his experiments he used 300 litres of water, in which 250 grammes of digitalis leaves had been infused. CIRCULATION. Heart.—The causes of the first sound of the heart have been investi- gated by J. Dogiel and C. Ludwig.|| These authors exposed the heart in dogs under the influence of woorara, and kept up artificial respiration ; passed a ligature round each of the vessels entering and emerging from the heart, and tightened them in the following order:—1. Superior vena cava. 2. Inferior vena cava. 3. Pulmonary arteries. 4. Pulmonary veins. Lastly, after slight squeezing of the heart, the aorta. The heart, thus rendered nearly bloodless, was excised, and suspended in a funnel- shaped vessel filled with defibrinated blood in such a manner that it did not come into contact with the sides. The vessel was closed below with a thin lamina of india rubber, and enclosed in a caoutchouc tube, to which, by means of a glass tube, a stethoscope was introduced. With the aid of this last there was heard at each systole, when this continued regularly, a distinct sound, which was distinguishable from the ordinary first sound of the heart only by its feeble intensity. If the cardiac movements were performed irregularly the sound disappeared. In a second series of re- searches the heart was not ligatured and excised, but remained in sittl, whilst the ligatures were only tightened in the above-mentioned order to * «L'Union Medical,' Jan. 1867. t ' Arcbiv f. Wiss. Heilk.,' Hi, p. 103, 1867. X In idem, p. 211. § ' Coraptes Rendus,' 1867, p. 722. || Sachs, ' Akad. Sitz. Berichte,' 1868, p. 89.