EXCISION OF OS CALCIS. 271 Khan those necessarily accompanying the ordinary methods of resection ; that even if the bone is not regenerated, the periosteal sheath remains to afford to the tendo Achillis a more firm means of attachment to the bones ; and that this is, of all the subperiosteal resections, that which affords the most incontestable advantages, even apart from the prospect of the regeneration of the bone removed. M. Oilier gives three cases in which he has performed this operation. In one the patient died two months afterwards. Some detached masses of bone were found in the scar, and the periosteal sheath was thickened. The two others recovered, and in both M. Oilier thought he detected traces of reproduction of the os calcis, less flattening of the heel than is the case after the ordinary operation, and better use of the foot. In the ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 122, may be found a short report of a discussion at the Soc. de Chir. on subperiosteal resection, apropos of a case by ISC. Giraldes of this operation on the os calcis, followed by apparent reproduction of the bone. In another case of subperiosteal resection of the tibia no reproduction had occurred. M. Le Fort ob- served that in some cases (of which M. Giraldes' was one) it was im- possible to remove the bone otherwise than subperiosteally, since that membrane was already detached. He doubted the value of the peri- osteum in resections of joints. MM. Perrin and Larrey were of the same opinion, and held that the clinical facts adduced in support of M. Ollier's hypotheses were as yet insufticient. Excision of os calcis.—In the 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 83, M. Bigaud, of Strasbourg, communicates short notes of 6 cases of his own, and 1 of Prof. Boeckel, of complete removal of the os calcis. (1) A boy. a?t. 10; cure in one month. No change required in the common shoe. After a short time no limping could be detected. (2) A man, set. 30; death in three weeks from pyaemia. (3) A man, 83t. 35; recovery in three months. Slight limping. A thick-soled boot was at first worn, but it was found useless, and he resumed the use of a common boot. (4) A man, set. 27. The recovery was slow, but com- plete. He walked without any sensible limp, using a common shoe. (5) A boy, set. 14; recovery in five weeks, without any limp or any change of shoe. (6) A boy, set. 15 ; recovery in two months, with good walking power. (7) A boy, set. 10 ; rapid recovery without lame- ness. The first case dates as far back as 1848. M. Eigaud's method of operation does not involve any injury to nerves, vessels, or any tendon except the tendo Achillis. In the 'New York Medical Eecord' for May, 1867, Dr. Burrall re- lates a case of excision of the entire os calcis, performed according to the plan recommended by the present compiler in the ' Lancet,' Jan. 21, 1865. The operation appears to be a comparatively new one in America, only two previous instances being referred to in Dr. Burrall's paper, both of which were successful. In the present instance, as in so many others, there was no strumous history or symptom of general struma. The patient was a boy, set. 8, and the disease appeared to have