REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 5G and the .action was thus complicated by the influence of alcohol (' Reynolds's System of Medicine,' ii, 1868). Tartar emetic is considered by Anstie a most dangerous remedy, only to be used in exceptional cases, and then with the utmost care and watchfulness. Mr. John Higginbottom describes a variety of so-called rheumatism, which used to puzzle him very much, but which for many years past he has been able confidently to refer to the influence of alcoholic excesses. It would appear that he must be alluding to a similar kind of affection to that described above by Leudet. Dr. Hermann of St. Petersburg, discusses the treatment of acute delirium tremens. "We must, in the first place, recognise the fact that slight cases get well spontaneously. The critical sleep occurs usually about the seventh day, more rarely on the fifth, and in cases where drinking habits have only been recently commenced on the third or fourth day ; when the illness lasts to the eleventh or twelfth day com- plications are to be suspected. Very large experience has convinced the author that remedies usually have little influence ; even the largest dose of " nervic " drugs will not cut short the malady, and too great venturesomeness often does harm. The drugs most used are opia:es, chloroform, digitalis, tartar emetic, acetate and oxide of zinc; certain stimulants, as alcohol, camphor, sambul; and, besides these, there are the use of cold, isolation of the patient, rest, baths, and moral influence. The oldest and most esteemed remedy is opium, but even this is no spe- cific. Practitioners differ greatly about the proper dose ; the medium quantity of 1 grain four to six times in the day is the most commonly used. In the Obachoff Hospital a grain dose is given morning aad noon, and one 2-grain dose in the evening. Such doses usually do good, and may be continued for several days without mischief; but where the patient is continuously maniacal and bathed in sweat, the pulse over 100, and the first heart-sound weak and indistinct; as also where he does not talk loud but mutters almost inaudibly, and shows a dis- position to sinking or to coma, or where no improvement occurs after five or seven days, opium is contra-indicated, and stimulants must take its place. Patients who resist every gastric remedy may be dealt with by subcutaneous injection of morphia. The author does not approve the digitalis treatment recommended by several English authors; he finds it ineffective, and thinks it dangerous. Chloroform is far below opium in utility. A tartar emetic mixture, with 3 or 4 grains in the 6 ounces, is useful in gastric complications, and in active congestion of the chest or head, especially in robust persons, larger and repeated doses readily produce collapse. Acetate of zinc (1 drachm in 6 ounces) has frequently proved useful; the author thinks it comes next to opium. Alcoholic stimulants and camphor are indicated in the case of old drinkers, also in relapses, and in cases where restlessness and copious sweating, with weakness of the heart, contra-indicate opium. Capsicum has been used by Hermann in several cases with decided benefit. He gives 2 drachms of the tincture diluted with water every three hours. He thinks that various other remedies of repute owe their apparent success to the result of expectation. Finally, he remarks that acute