259 ESCHAROTlCS IN JOINT-DISEASE. On the results of the treatment of ununited fracture by the introduction of ivory pegs through the fragments.—In the 'Lancet' for May 25,1867, Mr. Birkett relates two cases of ununited fracture of the humerus, in which he followed the above treatment with success. In the first, a simple fracture, in a man, set. 29, not the subject of any known disease, there was an absence of bony union after five months of local and con- stitutional treatment. The pegs excited bony deposit in two and a half months, and the arm became quite sound. The pegs remained imbedded. In the second case the fracture was compound, in a woman, ast. 28, who had suffered in the same accident from compound fracture of the lower jaw, which had united kindly. She was suckling at the time. The pegs were inserted four months after the accident, but did not excite bony union. One peg came away the other remained in the wound, but rhe arm was ununited when she was discharged, four months after the operation. The same treatment was repeated eleven months after the accident. Partial success was obtained, but there was still mobi- litr at the seat of fracture when she was discharged, fourteen months after the original injury. This, however, gradually diminished, and when last seen, nearly three years after the accident, the arm was as strong, useful, and nearly as well shaped as the uninjured one. On the treatment of diseased joints by escharotics.—Dr. Pitzpatrick read a paper at the British Medical Association, upon the subject of "Diseases of the Bones and Joints," principally with regard to a new mode of treatment by incision and the deep introduction of the caustic potassa cum calce into the cancellated structure of the articulating extremity of the bone in the incipient stage, or that of inflammatory congestion, and into the joint itself in the very advanced period. He re- marks on theunsettled and contradictory state of opinion on the treatment •of diseased joints ; some surgeons of highest authority advocating early operative interference, whilst yet the constitution is unimpaired by the exhausting progress of disease ; other distinguished men putting their faith in rest, with proper mechanical adjustment, and advising that patient trust should be placed in the healing operations of nature. Between those contrasted extremes every variety of opinion and prac- tice may be found to prevail, as boldness excites to action or caution inclines to delay. The statistics of conservative surgery, more particularly of the great revived operation of excision of the knee-joint, are the reverse of satis- factory ; the high expectations formed from the successful cases have not been fulfilled by a sufficient per-centage of cures, and in many instances the reported cures have not been permanent. " In the surgical charge of the North Dublin Union, the largest chronic hospital with one exception in this country, I have had, during the last twenty-five years, ample opportunity of judging of the effects of rest in the treatment of those affections; and the result of my experience has been most unfavorable. A certain amount of success may be looked for in the treatment of the upper classes, where the purest nir, the best nourishment, the most improved mechanical appliances, to-