TUBERCULOSIS. 35 Dr. Waldenburg (' Central Zeitung,' Dec. 1867) experimented on 80 rabbits and guinea-pigs. In tbe first series of experiments miliary tubercles were injected from a phthisical patient. Of 16 animals, 10 died within a few days, and no tubercle was found. In the other 6, characteristic changes were found in the liver or lungs, or both, besides pneumonia ; in several cases cheesy infiltration; in others de- posits were found in the mesentery, the intestines, the kidneys, and the spleen. In one animal, which had extensive deposits of tubercle, no changes were found at the site of the operation. In the second series cheesy matter was injected with negative results. In the third series cheesy lymphatic gland-tissue was used. Of 7 animals, 4 had miliary foci in the liver, and 1 in the large intestine. In the fourth series pus from the inoculation-wound of another animal was employed. Of 9 animals, 2 had miliary tubercle in the intestine, 1 had red hepati- zation of one lung, with partial cheesy infiltration of the lower lobe and suppurative pleurisy; in 4 there were tubercles in the liver. Besides these experiments, in many others inert matter of various kinds were introduced beneath the skin. In all these experiments the lym- phatic glands were enlarged and infiltrated, and the internal organs had miliary tubercles. On the other hand, Yogel (' Deutsches Archiv f. klin. Med.,' July, 1866) and Feltz (' Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg,' Oct. 25, 1867) have made a number of experiments which were entirely unsuccessful. In England most important researches have been made by Drs. "Wilson Fox and Burdon-Sanderson, in extension of those by Mr. Simon and by the foreign observers. Dr. ~W. Fox inoculated with various materials 117 guinea-pigs and 12 rabbits. Of the guinea-pigs, 58 became tubercular, 6 gave doubtful results, and no effect was produced in 53. The animals were carefully preserved in healthy surroundings. As regards the local effects, excluding certain limited and seemingly accidental ones, masses of dry cheesy matter are produced beneath the skin, which rather resemble the cUbris of fatty degeneration than true pus-cells. This matter is generally encysted, and sometimes there are two or several such masses, not always close together. Besides these, numerous small granulations are scattered beneath the skin over a con- siderable area. These are sometimes grey and sometimes yellow, and larger masses are sometimes found strikingly like tubercular lym- phatic glands. Cords of induration also extend at variable depth and for variable distances, through the subcutaneous and muscular tissue ; their central parts are often cheesy. Neither the cords nor the granu- lation* are constant, but they are pretty frequent. Examined under the microscope, they seem mostly a mass of nuclei, or else of cells imbedded in a tissue which conceals all but the nuclei. At the circum- ference of the part these granulations appear like round- or spindle- shaped cells in a trabeculated tissue; the general resemblance is to the elementary structure of a lymphatic gland. Many of the cells, aud atao of the nuclei, show various degrees of fatty degeneration. In these masses, and in their neighbourhood, singular strings and rows of cells and nuclei are sometimes seen ; their Bize is twice or three times that of a capillary. They suggested to Fox the idea of a lymphatic tube