YELLOW FEVER. 59 ings were common ; bleeding from the lungs occurred only once, in a tuberculous subject ; inflammations of the lungs were usually only re- mittent. Remittent fever was usually of a typhoid type aud accom- panied by bronchitis. External wounds (?) often took on an intermittent action, and were followed by neuralgia of this type; in all these cases quinine acted well ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 138, p. 176). Dr. D. Scott, of Bellefontaine, Iowa, has examined afresh the value of chloroform in intermittents. He says, " In 20 cases after the ad- ministration of one fluid drachm each the chill was immediately arrested, with the exception of 1 case, in which the above dose was repeated in the hour ; in 11 of the above cases the febrile stage was probably averaged ; in the remaining cases the fever ran on about as usual, or, with few exceptions, terminating with profuse perspiration; in 8 of the cases the paroxysm returned on the succeeding day, and in 9 on the second day; 3 escaped, but were subsequently attacked in from 7 to 20 days ; in the remaining case no reliance was placed on the curative properties of the chloroform, which I only administered for the purpose of abridging the chiil, but was followed by large doses of sulphate of quinine as soon as the sweating stage was established" ('Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Feb., 1868). The use of the hyposulphites of soda, &c, as a substitute for quinine in periodic diseases, has of late attracted much attention in America (see 'American Journal of Medical Science,' Jan. and April, 1868). Drs. Hampton and Turner treated a very large number of cases with 15- and 20-grain doses every two hours, and Dr. Hampton says the drug was equally effective with quinine. Dr. Leavitt and Dr. Baxter also give very favorable testimony to this treatment. Dr. Chubb, of Cambridge, Ma., gives a more cautious opinion to the same effect. He thinks the hyposulphites are more use- ful where quinine is not well known or has failed; but he thinks that they are not to be relied on in the more severe pernicious fevers, and in general he thinks their action slower and less energetic than that of quinine. Yellow "Fever. This disease was prevalent at Vera Cruz in 1865, and a surgeon attached to the Mexican expedition—Dr. Schmidtlein—gives an in- teresting account of the outbreak, which was, on the whole, a mild one, the mortality only amounting to 38 per cent. The whole 200 cases observed may be divided into abortive or trivial cases, and the severer forms.with vomiting, jaundice, albuminuria, and brain symptoms. In the very severest, which ran a rapid course, there were vomiting of blood, convulsions, and petechia?. The disease generally began, with- out warning, with some pains in the temples and sacrum, about the kidneys, and in the limbs, followed by severe depression and shivering. The temperature was that of continued fever. In the early days it reached at the highest 1040 to 105-8° Fahr., but on the fourth and'fifth days it fell to or below the normal standard. In fatal cases the tempera- ture rose 3-6° Fahr. and more towards the close. Complication with pneumonia or hfemorrhagic pericarditis caused sudden elevation of