351 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. man, a>t. 26, and that had much the appearance of a butterfly's egg. It was suspended by a delicate filament, studded with pigment, from the lower border of the pupil. It was broken in removal, but the author considered it to be a residuum of the foetal pupillary membrane. The relative merits of von Graefe's and of other methods of ex- tracting senile cataract have occasioned lively controversy, and innu- merable papers in English and foreign journals. Dr. F. P. Eerreira* has published an account of the linear method. Dr. Weckerf has given to the world an essay on the new operations, but it is, in fact, little more than a description of them. Prof, von Hasner, of Prague,^ has assailed von Graefe's method, the " modified linear extraction," in a pamphlet of extreme acerbity and bitterness; and von Graefe § has replied to the attack in a manner equally temperate and dignified. Von Hasner trusted to invective rather than to evidence; and there would be no advantage in reproducing here a controversy that was almost entirely personal, and that will have little or no influence upon the ultimate verdict of the profession upon the subject. Dr. Steffan,|| of Frankfort-on-the-Maine, has published his own experiences and re- searches in a manner requiring a more extended notice. He com- menced independent practice as an oculist in 1861. The treatise of Schuft had then just appeared, advocating his method of scoop extraction. Yon Graefe had been led to the linear section, because he considered the flap to be in itself a source of danger. Steffan determined to adopt Schuft's method, and practised it in 27 cases, which led him to results perhaps all the more valuable because the smallness of the number was favorable to careful and continued observation. He departed in two respects from Schuft's procedure. Except in 3 cases, he made the iridectomy before extraction. The section was 3-5- or 4 lines long instead of 3, a change that could not fail to render the results more favorable. The operation was well completed 19 times. In 5 cases an escape of vitreous followed the lens. Twice, portions of the cortex were left behind. Once, vitreous escaped with the lens and with the remains of cortex. Of 14 operations completed without accident, 11 patients read No. 1 (Jager), one No. 4, one No. 15 (pre-existent amblyopia and strabismus), and one could only count fingers (pre-existent disseminated choroiditis and myopia). The other 13 operations were followed by inflammation. Five patients were enabled by a subsequent iridectomy to read at least No. 15; 4 had only quantitative perception of light, and 4 were perfectly blind. There were thus 8 complete failures in 27 cases, or 29-6 per cent. Results so unfortunate had determined the author to practise flap extraction, when he became acquainted with the writings of Messrs. Bowman and Critchett. The English method offered two positive advantages, a * ' De l'Operation de la Cataracte, par l'extraction linuare scleroticale,' Paris, 1867. ' + ' Dm Nouveaux Procedes Operatoires de la Cataracte. Parallele et Critique.' Paris, 1868. X ' Die neneste Phase der Staar-operation,' Prag., 1868. § 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1868; ' Annales d'Oculistique/ 1868. || ' Erfahrungen und Studien iiber die Staar-operation, im Zeitraum der Jahre 1861 — 1867,' Erlangen, 1867.