REPOET ON PRACTICAL JIEDICIXE. 114 cough—dryness and humidity. A dry cough may indicate a stimulation of the respiratory organs without indicating any tendency to catarrh, hut it may also indicate the first stage of catarrhal inflammation previous to the appearance of the morbid secretion. There are some moist coughs accompanied by difficult and viscous expectoration, as if brought from the depths of the bronchial tree, and there are moist coughs which, at each explosion, expel collections of mucus from the air-tubes. Finally, there are mixed coughs where there is the abnormal stimulus as well as the necessity of expectorating. "When expectoration is painful and difficult, and accompanied by a violent cough, antimony and ipecacuau are indicated. In dry cough, or cough with little expectoration, sedatives, as opium, hyoscyamus, belladonna, or aconite, are best. Bella- donna is best where there is much spasm, aconite where there is fever. If opium is not well borne by the stomach, it may be applied locally, and counter-irritants will also sometimes have a similarly beneficial effect. Pneumonia, fyc. Dr. Adolph Bohme, of Deminin, says that the sputa in pneumonia may be divided into three kinds, corresponding to three stages of the disease. In the first stage the sputa are odourless, mucous, and viscid ; the microscope shows them to contain epithelium, blood, and mucus- corpuscles and nucleated cells. In a further stage the sputa are more copious and more consistent; they are then very tough and viscid, and present the rusty colour; as long as the bronchi remain pervious there are bubbles of air in the sputa. Blood, mucus- and pus-corpuscles are seen, and branching fibrous twigs, pigment-cells, epithelium and nucleated cells. When the temperature suddenly falls^and the pneumonia begins to resolve, the sputa become more copious and more fluid, and the rusty colour passes into yellow. Mucus- or pus-corpuscles, of which there were but few in the early stages, are now very numerous, while the fibrin is diminished. The chlorides, which had greatly diminished in the acute stage, now increase again ; the further stages of convalescence are marked by a constant increase of pus- and fat-cells in the sputa. In abnormal cases of pneumonia there may be no sputa from first to last; this is mostly the case in children, in lunatics, and in very weak persons. The author does not believe with Chomel, that the locality of pneumonia has any influence. Sometimes the sputa only appear at the height of the disorder or at the beginning of resolution ; or they may have altogether disappeared at the latter stage, though they had hitherto been normal. Where pneumonia is preceded by catarrh the sputa may be muco-purulent. Now and then a case is seen where the sputa are healthy, except that from time to time one sputum will be rusty. Occasionally rusty sputa appear as quite a late symptom; this, possibly, is the sign of an extension of the disease. Sometimes a pneumonia of one lung with yellow sputa will be followed immediately by pneumonia of the other lung with bloody sputa, and so on. During resolution the colour of the sputa may often change with- out serious significance. Deep yellow and greeu sputa are of no con- sequence if there be jaundice, but if they occur in the abseuce of this