258 REPORT ON SURGERY. edly among the rarest in this class of injuries. I am not aware of any well-authenticated example of its having been placed upon record, with the exception of one that I published in i860.'* . . . 'The patient was a boy aged 16 years.' . . . « I did not see him until six months after the occurrence of the accident.' "On account of the infrequency noticed by Dr. Smith, it occurs to me that the publication of a case observed by myself very soon after the accident which caused it, may contribute something towards completing the history of the injury. I therefore send the outline of the case from notes made at the time. " On Oct. 22, 1851, a well-built, healthy looking lad, 17 years of age, was admitted into University College Hospital, on account of an injury near his left ankle, which occurred on the same day a short time before his being brought to the hospital. The patient stated that, while dragging a piece of iron about twelve feet long over a heap of earth in the street, he slipped and fell, his left foot being doubled under him. No further account of the position of the limb in the accident could be got. _ ''The entire injury was found to be at the lower part of the leg. 'The tibia there projects forwards ; and below the prominence is a depression —between it and the foot. The projection of the bone is an inch and a half higher than the lower margiu of the fibula, and three quarters of an inch above the lower edge of the malleolar process of the tibia. The space between the prominent tibia and the end of the great toe on the injured side measures three quarters of an inch less than in the other foot.' The ankle-joint was uninjured. " Two other facts I looked upon as peculiar to this injury—diagnostic of it; namely—1. The edge, so to call it, of the displaced bone was rounded; and the end or lower surface was felt to be smooth, and, as it were rugous—very unlike the hard, angular, almost sharp feel of actual broken bone, and corresponding exactly with the condition of a bone not fully developed, where the epiphysis is connected with it by carti- lage. 2. There was an absence of the soft swelling which surrounds the broken ends of bone where any displacement exists—the swelling occa- sioned by the effusion of blood from vessels torn by the sharp boue at the seat of fracture. Swelling likewise accompanies the displace- ment of bone at a joint. In that case, however, it results from increased secretion of synovia, not from blood. It was, no doubt, the freedom from swelling which permitted the outline of the prominent bone and the hollow below it to be so clearly defined as they were. The same circumstance permitted the easy examination of the edge and the end of the bone where it projected. " The diagnosis made out at the time was, separation of the shaft of the tibia from the epiphysis. The case has not hitherto, I believe, been published, except in the account of it given to pupils in the ward of the hospital and in a clinical lecture. " The replacement of the bone and the treatment (by means of starched apparatus)presented no difficulty and no circumstance requiring notice." * An example, however, was recorded by the present compiler in the 'Path. Soc. Trans./ xiii, 187.