TRAUMATIC FEVER. 227 tion of the products of putrefaction. "With respect to the cause of the intermissions, he alludes to two theories, according to one of which the poison accumulates in the hlood and does not occasion rigors till it has reached a certain dose, while according to the other the poison accumulates in the spleen and is discharged thence into the blood in the occasional passage of the contents of the spleen into the general circulation. The author, however, thinks it more probable that each rigor is caused by a fresh inflammation, whether in the wound or some other part of the body. This theory is reconcilable both with the results of experiments and with clinical observation. He lays great stress upon the fact, which can be verified by the continuous observation of the temperature during the day in cases of purulent infection, that attacks of fever, marked by rise of temperature, frequently occur without any rigor!; therefore the intermittent type so characteristic of this fever is not excluded by the absence of rigors. 3. The combina- tion of the fever of purulent infection with the recurrence of throm- bosis and embolism is, according to him, the definition of pyaemia. In this form of fever he believes that all the metastatic abscesses are due originally to embolism. The objection that such abscesses are found in remote organs when none are found in the lungs, and that embolic bodies which are too small to pass the capillary vessels of the spleen, &c, ought to be arrested in the lungs, he disposes of by an experiment in which he injected matter from a cancerous breast into the jugular vein of a dog. After death deposits were found in the spleen, but the lungs were quite free. He next proceeds to consider how the throm- bosis occurs, and how pus can find its way into the blood. On the first head he does not come to any positive conclusion; but on the second point he refers to experiments showing the possibility of the passage of pus, as such, through the walls both of the veins and lym- phatics. Then follows an elaborate digest of the symptoms, post-mortem appearances, and etiological conditions (such as sex, age, season of the year, &c.) in 180 cases of these three forms of infection-fever; and he concludes with a chapter on the treatment, prophylactic and curative. Dr. Billroth's 20th chapter deals in a similar manner with the phe- nomena of erysipelas, and (but much less fully) with those of lymphatic inflammation and tetanus. In an appendix will be found a few observa- tions of the temperature in various diseases—viz. injuries of the spine and head, peritonitis, acute nephritis, and rigors after catheterization. In the'St. George's Hospital Eeports,' iii, p. 73, will be found a paper by Mr. Pick on traumatic fever, in which, besides confirming JjiJlroth's general accuracy by his own observations, he endeavours to show the differences in the phenomena of the secondary surgical fever, according as it depends on local inflammatory action about the wound, on pyemia, phagedena or erysipelas. In the first the temperature gradually rises up to its highest point, and then subsides immediately on the establishment of a free and healthy discharge. In pyemia the temperature exhibits remissions and exacerbations corresponding to the intermittent character of the fever. Phagedena is marked by a gradual rise of temperature, sometimes to a very high point (io5°-io6° P.), followed by a sudden fall to the normal temperature, or even below