VALVULA.lt DISEASES. 135 during one of these she Drought up hright, frothy hlood, and bloody sputa were brought up for some days, but afterwards ceased. "Without any manifest change, she was one morning suddenly seized with dyspnoea and palpitations. She became livid and covered with a cold sweat; she had rattling in the throat, and speedily died. The lungs were found to be tolerably healthy,but the pulmonary artery was filled with fibrinous clots, as were all its branches. The heart was of the ordinary size, its walls somewhat fatty. The mitral, aortic, and pulmonary valves were healthy. The right anterior portion of the tricuspid valve was somewhat thickened, rough, and uneven on its outer surface ; on its inner was a mass of firm and hard greyish-white fibrin, adheringfirmly to the thickened portion of the valve ; some of its cordse tendinea? were also thickened ; the posterior valve was normal at one side, but on that touching the right anterior there was a decided loss of substance. The liver was enlarged, partly gorged, partly fatty. The spleen, alimentary canal, and kidneys were normal. The uterine veins contained thrombi, as did the iliacs, the hypogastrics, and the aorta. Dr. Peacock gives ('Lancet,' Feb. 29, 1868) two interesting cases of heart disease. The one occurred in a milkman, set. 41, who had a history of rheumatism. When admitted his lips were purple, and there was general icteroid staining; the liver was enlarged, as was the heart, transversely. There was a systolic murmur at the apex, propagated towards the left axilla, and heard behind; there was also a basic mur- mur following the other. After death one of the cordse tendineae was found broken from the mitral valve, and to be covered with vegeta- tions. The auriculo-ventricular orifice was also narrowed. There had been a slight vibratile thrill over the apex. The second occurred in a youth, set. 26, who had also suffered from rheumatic fever. He came in anasarcous. His face was tumid, his cheeks flushed, and his lips purple. The resonance of his chest was impaired. There were both systolic and diastolic murmurs, the former most audible over the fourth left cartilage, where it was followed by a ringing sound; at the base this second sound was followed by a soft murmur. At the apex the systolic was followed by a loud diastolic sound, but no murmur. The liver was large, and the abdomen tumid ; his urine was never albuminous. After death the heart weighed 28 oz. The aortic valves were opaque, and one was much thickened. Imme- diately above was an aneurismal dilatation of the aorta the size of an egg; this protruded into the pericardium, and pressed on the right ventricle so as to partially obstruct the pulmonary artery, and partially destroy the valves. At this point there was a small opening into the aneurism. The former case, owing to the great Bize of the liver, was treated chiefly by mercurials, but with little advantage; they were then laid aside. In the second, contrary to Dr. Peacock's usual plan in aortic incompetency, digitalis was given. Acupuncture of the lower extremi- ties was also resorted to. Presystolic bruit.—Dr. Peacock, in a paper read before the Hunterian .Society, and Dr. Gairdner, in a lecture published in the' Glasgow Medical Journal,' July and Dec. 1867, contend for the existence and value of