24 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. series of hollow cones with crescentic hases, which are let into one another, and in neighbouring bundles are arranged with the bases of the cones alternately looking forwards and backwards. Frankenhauser * describes the nerves of unstriped muscle as extra- ordinarily fine and delicate in their ultimate branchings, the point of division presenting minute knots, resembling, on a small scale, the nuclei of the larger fibres; they do not terminate in loops, but enter the nuclei of the muscular fibre, and end by either a simple or by a branched extremity, according to whether the nuclei have one or two nuclear corpuscles. Lindgrenf coincides with Frankenhauser in examinations he has made of the mode of termination of the nerves of the uterus. They either end in nuclear-like bodies, abruptly or gradually, or in finely pointed extremities in the substance of the muscle. Winkler J describes the muscular bundles of the heart as being pro- vided with a very delicate sarcolemma. O. Weber, § in an essay on the regeneration of muscular tissue after injury, seeks to show that the new fibres proceed from the nuclei found in the old, each cell producing one fibre. Hofmann|| also found that new muscular fibres originated in the muscle-corpuscles of the old, but he maintains that several unite to form one fibre. Fick and Dybkowsky % have shown that muscles, in assuming the contracted condition of rigor mortis, just as inordinary contraction, develop heat, aud to this source they attribute the high temperature sometimes observed in bodies after yellow fever, cholera, and other affections, the muscles then becoming rapidly stiff. Helmholtz adds to Wollaston's and llaughton's observations on the sound of muscle in contraction, that the note is more acute in propor- tion to the rapidity with which the shocks of an electric battery are applied to it; in other words, in correspondence with the rapidity of the successive contractions of the tissue. Place** estimates the period of latent excitation in the muscles of frogs at 0*005 of a sec. If the muscle be first extended the work done rises until about the third part of the maximum tension is attained, when it again sinks. He finds the rapidity of propagation of the excitation through muscle at about 1 metre per second. The Eev. S. Haughtonft estimates that the force of a muscle is pro- portional to the area of its cross section, and that the force of a muscle is also proportionate to the cross section of the tendon that conveys its influence to a distant point. From experiment he found that the force of contraction of the muscles per square inch is, in the arm, 947 lb. and in the leg 1x0-4 lb. By Donders that of the arm is given at 122 lb. per square inch. As a mean of both experiments 109-4 lb. may be taken. This agrees fairly with the observations of Knorz. * ' Henle und Meissner's Bericlit,' p. 49, 18C7. t ^'d., p. 50. J 1 Reicliert's Archiv,' 1867, p. 221. § « Virchow's Archiv,' xxxix, Heft ii. || Ibid., xl, Heft iii and iv. (J ' Vierteljahrs. der Naturf. Geseil. in Zurich,' 1867. ** ' Neder'land Archiv,' iii, 1SG7, Heft ii. ft '1Jroc- Ro.v- Soc->' l867> 94.