THE NEW-BORN INFANT. 419 This subject is also discussed by Trelat, Le Port, and Tarnier, in the 'Gazette des Hopitaux,' 1866; also by D. Phelan ('Dublin Quar. Journ.,' Feb. 1867) ; also by D. L. Attbill (ibid.). Dr. Boehr, recognising fully the doctrine that puerperal fever is pro- pagated by infection carried by the touch, argues in favour of com- pulsory sanitary regulations to prevent it (memoir, 1868). Observations on the contagion of puerperal fever through a midwife. —Dr. Kaufmann relates the following history:—In Durkheim, at a time when there was no other epidemic present, a man had diphtheritis, and was convalescent, when at the end of April a young primipara was delivered in his house. Two days afterwards she sickened with puerperal fever. She was attended by a midwife, M—. She died. Exsudation in the abdomen, and diphtheritic endometritis found. TTithin the last fortnight four other women were attacked, all of whom had been attended by the same midwife. During the month of May M— attended six women ; five took the fever, and four died. Duriug the same time two other midwives attended twenty-one cases, all with- out accident ('Mon. f. Geb.,' April, 1867). Puerperal fever is discussed by Dr. G-. Hewitt (' Obst. Trans.,' x) in connection with the history of the British Lying-in Hospital. He advocated early resort to the stimulant plan of treatment, and tincture of iron. Dr. Snow Beck disputed the reality of puerperal fever in Dr. Hewitt's cases. There is an elaborate critical historical survey of the whole subject by Dr. Perber ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1868). Mr. E. Bowling (' Obst. Trans.,' x) related the history of the Florence Nightingale Ward at King's College Hospital. The mortality of the lying-in women had increased every year ; the average was 1 in 2S-9 cases. The department was consequently closed. Scarlatina in childbed. Hervieux ('L'TJnion Mcdicale,' 1867) describes the eruption as appearing in twelve to twenty-four hours after the first symptoms ; it lasts from four to six days ; the desquamation is never so marked as in non-pregnant women; improvement attends desquama- tion ; the most serious complications are metritis, peritonitis, uterine phlebitis. IT. THE XEW-BORN TNTAINT. On the urine of the foetus and new-born child, especially on the influence of labour upon the quantitg and composition of the urine. Prof. Dohrn.—The paper (a very interesting one) is based upon 100 cases, divided into three categories :—(1) Normal labours. (2) Cases in which disturbance of the foetal circulation was made out durin«- labour. (3) Dead-born children. The following are his conclusions : (1) Most children whose births are normal come with urine in the bladder; the quantity, on an average, is 7-5 cubic centim. (2) The children of plnriparaj, oftener than of primipara?, girls than boys, heavy than light, quickly born than slowly born, have urine in the bladder. (3) Oftener during labour the pressure of uterine contraction causes a partial or complete emptying of the bladder, and this is directly through interruptions of the placental circulation, not indirectly