493 CHOLERA. Guildford is not ordinarily quite exempt from enteric fever; and during the first 28 days of August, 1867, 10 such cases had heen seen scattered about iu the town; when suddenly, within the next 33 days, there had arisen fully 2 50 cases of the disease, and of this large number 150 had arisen within a fortnight. The distribution of the disease, especially during the first fortnight of the epidemic, so nearly corresponded in area with a particular section of the public water- supply of the town as to raise the strongest suspicions that this section of the water-supply was at fault. And eventually these suspicions became a certainty. First, namely, it was shown that on one particular day in August—about ten days before the beginning of the outbreak— 330 of the 1675 houses of Guildford had exceptionally received their water from a certain high service reservoir which had been previously fdled from a new well; and that the persons residing in or frequenting these 330 houses constituted the part of the population on which the epidemic influence had almost exclusively fallen. Subsequent chemical examinat ion of the water of the new well detected in it the products of organic decomposition, and examination of the local circumstances showed, but too unquestionably, whence the decomposing animal matter had been derived. The new well, no one could doubt, was most dangerously situated; in the porous and fissured chalk stratum it was within ten feet of various sewers, one of which, indeed, was traversed, as a short cut, by the iron delivery pipe of the high service. And when, after the epidemic, this reckless confusion of sewer and water-works was dissected, the state of the things found at the spot was reported as follows—" The engineers employed in the repairs of the steam engine noticed some exudation on the wall of the engine-house next the alley where the sewer runs, and the pit of the fly-weeel contained a notable quantity of the same. As the exudation had the smell of sewage, the ground was opened in the alley at a point adjacent to the engine-house. The sewer was found leaking in various places, and the soil between it and the wall of the engine-house was saturated with the sewage, of which as much appeared to run outside as inside the sewer All the joints gave exit to water, and the ground was a quagmire of filth beneath and on each side. Dark coloured foetid slush had to be dug out and removed in baskets, making the men vomit who were employed in the work." There, of course, could not be any reasonable doubt but that the passage of this filth into the well, from which the high service reservoir was filled, had been the cause of the epidemic. The whole number of deaths from fever up to the end of the epidemic was 21, and the total number of cases of fever from August to December was roughly computed at 500. The epidemic at Terling, in Essex, was one of extraordinary di- mensions. In that village of only 900 inhabitants, and for the most part within a period of two months, fully 300 persons were attacked with enteric fever, and 41 of the number died. The conditions which ren- dered possible this most calamitous visitation of disease were conditions of local filth. At Terling such conditions were at their worst. Round w hat pretends to be the house-accommodation of the tillers of the soil in Terling—a scanty, overcrowded supply of dwellings of the meanest