11EP0B.T ON SURGERY. •zio " i. It ensures complete immobility of tlie fragments more certainly than any other plan. " 2. Consequently, it relieves the patient of much pain during its treatment. "3. As it presses on none of the soft parts, it fits tightly from first to last, and avoids the discomfort accompanying the chin-splints. "4. It, in all but the worst cases, is no greater hindrance to the patient in pursuing his daily occupation than a set of false teeth. It allows him to eat, speak, and go about unnoticed." Fracture of the neck of tie scapula.—In the 'Deutsche Klinik,' 1867, pp. 420, 428, 438, Dr. Lotzbeck, of Munich, treats of fracture of the neck of the scapula, In the first place, he distinguishes the "anatomical neck," or the contracted part of the bone immediately surrounding the glenoid cavity, from the part which is ordinarily in- tended when the neck of the scapula is spoken of, and which he"calls its "surgical neck." In proof that fracture may traverse at least a great part of the anatomical neck, he refers to the case recorded by Spence and Steel, in the ' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1863, p. 1083, in which " all the articular portion was severed from the rest of the scapula and displaced downwards;" to a case mentioned cursorily by'Petit (' Mala- dies des Os,' 1735, p. 136) ; and to one which he met with in his own practice. On the strength of these cases he admits that fracture of the anatomical neck, i. e. fracture on the outer side of the coracoid process, does occur, though the more common fracture is in the surgical neck, i. e. on the inner side of that process. After some references to the authors who have expressed divergent opinions, and given statistics on the subject of these fractures, Dr. Lotzbeck relates two cases which have occurred in his own practice. In the first of these the symptoms at first sight much resembled dislocation ; the arm was lengthened by one inch, directed away from the side, and the acromion prominent; but the injury was easily distinguished from dislocation by the fact that the coracoid. process was also displaced, and moved with the arm in passive motion ; that such movements were perfectly easy to produce (though very painful), the length of the arm was at once restored and crepitus obtained ; and finally, that an irregular fragment of bone could easily be felt in the axilla. After about nine weeks' treatment the patient was cured, and ultimately regained almost complete motion. In the other case the diagnostic signs from dislocation were somewhat the same, viz. the ease with which the difference in length (somewhat less in this case, about § in.) could be remedied—the production of crepitus when this was done—the freedom of passive motion, though with much pain, aud the sensation of a bony fragment in the axilla. But since, in this case, the coracoid process remained in its place, and did not move when the arm was acted upon, Dr. Lotzbeck classes this as a fracture of the anatomical neck. In this case, also, the motion of the joint was, as it appears, fully restored. He concludes with a careful rcsumt of what is known as to this in- jury. In regard of the symptoms of fracture of the neck of the scapula, he says that the flattening of the shoulder is due to displacement of the