MALARIAL FEVERS. 57 delirium tremens is a capricious disease, and its prognosis always doubtful. Small local bleedings from the epigastrium, the cold affusion with or without the warm bath, a cool room, mental and bodily rest— these are the foundation of the treatment. The strait-waistcoat is often (!) unavoidable. In after-treatment bitter stomachics, with or without opium, wine, beer, or even small doses of brandy, are found useful (' Petersburger Ztsch.,' 8,1867). Dr. D. Gr. Burr reports some very interesting cases of alcoholism treated with drachm doses of bromide of potassium. Five cases are re- corded, all more or less of an acute form, in which the treatment was completely successful. In a sixth it comparatively failed. Dr. Burr is of opinion that in the milder cases of delirium tremens, and especially in patients who are not amenable to the influence of opium, the bromide is extremely useful, having a powerful effect in producing sleep. In cases of more active delirium he would place more reliance upon opium. The following are the only bad effects observed to follow the use of these very large doses of the bromide—diarrhoea and a lack of co-ordi- nating power in the lower limbs, but both are quite temporary and pass off when the medicine is discontinued (' St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal,' Nov. 1868). Dr. Foehr, of Marbach, discusses the treatment of delirium tremens. He thinks that this affection is never a simple one at its commence- ment, but is always united with pneumonia or other acute disease, never- theless,^ is, no doubt, quite special in its features. All kinds of bleeding aggravate the malady. When there is a certain amount of fever, opiates are of no use ; but as soon as the fever remits opium operates wonderfully, provided it is given in sufficient doses for the production of sleep. In 3 cases the author gave first 1 grain of acetate of morphia every hour, and produced sleep in five hours. The next evening, agita- tion returning, he gave four more such doses with success. In the second case a grain of opium was given every hour, and five doses pro- duced a cure. In the third case, 3 half grains of acetate of morphia having proved ineffective, the author gave three doses of a grain each every evening, and in two days convalescence set in (' Journ. de Med, de Bruxelles,' xlvi, 1868).—[See additional papers in index]. Malarial Fevers. Dr. John P. Nash ('Lancet,' March 14, 1868), of the Madras army, has tried the use of strychnine in cases of ague in which quinine had failed. In the first case i-i6th grain was taken four times a clay ; the paroxysms were immediately checked, and the patient was well in five days. Cases 2 and 3 were those of young children, aged 9 and 11 ; 1-30th of a grain was taken four times a day in strong quassia. The cases were respectively cured in six and eleven days. Case 4 was an old and obstinate one, in which quinine had long ceased to act; i-2oth grain of strychnine was given four times a day, and the patient was well in eight days. Case 5 was also an old one, in which botli quinine aud arsenic had failed ; i-i2th grain of strychnine was given four times a