REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUItCERY. 3US SUIuight, and of burning the retina. Czerny* describes some experi- ments on the eyes of animals which show that Zehender's caution is not uncalled for. Javal and N aglet submitted to the Paris Congress a proposal for the general use of the metrical scale and for a series of equal intervals for the focal lengths of test lenses. BurowJ has also written upon the ques- tion. It was referred at Paris to a committee, and their report is not yet published. Dr. Cohn§ has suggested the use of spectacles made of mica to pre- serve the eyes from injury in various trades and occupations. They may be coloured blue for stokers, firemen, and the like; and are very light and very cheap. The most important contribution to this branch of ophthalmology has been Dr. Cohn's researches into the state of refraction of the eyes of schoolchildren and students, detailed in his treatise. || He has made a very careful and elaborate examination of the eyes of 10,060 school- children, with the view, not only of obtaining statistics of the disorders of the eyes that are most commonly met with in schools, but also in order to study their causes and to seek means of diminishing their frequency. After some introductory matter, addressed to readers who have no special knowledge of ophthalmology, and intended to make the book intelligible to school managers and others, the author proceeds to give an account of his investigations and results. He furnished the teachers with a scale of test types, to be placed before all the scholars at a certain distance. Those whose acuteness of vision, thus deter- mined, fell below the normal standard, were set apart for further examination, and the state of refraction of their eyes was ascertained by means of the ophthalmoscope. The statements of the children were not trusted, and only objective evidence was received. Thirty-three schools were visited ; 5 rural, in the canton of Eeichenbach, in Silesia, containing 1486 pupils ; and 28 urban, in Breslau, containing 8 74 pupils. Among the latter schools were 20 primary (elementary), 2 middle schools, 2 upper schools for girls, 2 normal, and 2 gymnasia. Prom the 10,060 pupils, 2200 were set aside as having defective vision ; and of these, 1730, or 17*1 per cent, of the whole, were found to be ametropic. It seemed that the number of ametropes increased with the labour of study; for in the several categories of schools already mentioned the proportion was as follows, in the order in which they were given:—5*2 per cent., 147, 19-2, 21-9, 241, and 317. In the town there were four times as many as in the country. The proportion between the number of ametropes and that of emme- tropes is shown in the following table: Eminetropes 8,330 or 83 per cent. Ametropes h334 » '3 » Other diseases of the eye .... 396 „ 4 „ Total .... 10,060 100 „ * ' Sitzungsbericht der k. Acad. d. Wisscnsch. zu Wien,' Oct., 1S67. + 'Comptc Rendu;' 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' (868. + 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' 18G8. $ Ibid. || ' Untersuchungen dcr Augen von 10,000 Sclialkindcrn,* Leipzig, 1867.