195 NEW ANAESTHETIC AGENTS. to ignore the fact that not only several fatal cases have followed its employment, but that a jury in the United States appended to their yerdict in one of these cases a dictum against its indiscriminate use. Moreover, it is certain that remote ill effects have followed it. I myself have the testimony of Dr. Eade, of Barnsbury, who attended a case m which epilepsy and delirium for severalrdays followed its administration." (On these points, also see Mr. S. L.Bymer, in 'Dental Eeview' for Jan. 1864; Dr. Ziegler, ' Dental Cosmos,' Dec. 1863; Mr. E. Hop- o-ood, ' Dental Eeview,' 1864 ; and Pereira's ' Materia Medica.') ° In the same journal (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 9, 1868) Dr. Marcet, after some observations on the interchange and diffusion of gases through moistened membranes (such as the pulmonarymembrane), proceeds as follows to explain the action and relative safety of the nitrous oxide:—" If we now turn our attention to the physiological action of protoxide of nitrogen, from a consideration of the above remarks, its presence in the pulmonary vesicles cannot in any way be opposed to the elimination of carbonic acid from the blood circulating through the lungs; it will become dissolved by the moisture adhering to the air-vesicles, and carried by liquid diffusion into the blood. The solubility of nitrous oxide in water is much higher than that of oxygen ; consequently it will find its way into the blood much more rapidly than oxygen would. "Water at 68 deg. F. (a temperature inferior to that of animal heat), for one volume of oxygen supplied to it in air, will absorb no less than 37 volumes of oxygen supplied to it as nitrous oxide ; this will give an idea of the relative degree of absorption of oxygen by a moist membrane, such as that of the lung, from air, and in the form of nitrous oxide. These considerations appear to me to show that the action of protoxide of nitrogen on the human body is due, first, to an increased supply of oxygen to the blood, causing the well-known early exhilarating effects; and later, when a larger quantity of the gas has been absorbed, anaesthesia is produced by the excessive formation of carbonic acid in the blood owing to a large supply of oxygen. When the gas is exhibited diluted with air to a certain point, the exhilarating effects do not pass off into insensibility, because the carbonic acid is eliminated as fast as it is formed; but when given undiluted with air, its anaesthetic iniiuence becomes quickly developed. The rapid disap- pearance of the blue stage, and return of sensibility, appears due to the fact that, according as the access of carbonic acid in the blood is with- drawn from it by the respiration of pure air, the oxygen of the nitrous oxide absorbed, becoming present in the blood in excess of the carbonic acid, causes an immediate renewal of the vital functions, allowing time for the absorption of oxygen from the air inspired. If this view should be correct, it would follow that nitrous oxide is a safe anaesthetic agent when required only for a short time, and even when administered for a protracted operation, care being taken to allow the occasional respira- tion of pure air, so as to get rid of the excess of carbonic acid formed, supposing, of course, that nitrous oxide is not possessed of any special anaesthetic property." A report has very recently been made to the Odontological Society on the action of this anaesthetic by a committee appointed for that