22 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. bility, from the medulla oblongata; course backwards without decussat- ing in the spinal cord, and emerge generally through the anterior roots of the seventh and eighth cervical and first and second dorsal nerves, in order to enter the cervical sympathetic. He has been unable to deter- mine whether a part of the fibres issuing from the medulla oblongata reach the sympathetic by communicating with the hypoglossal, as stated by Budge to occur in rabbits and frogs. The researches of Mr. J. Lockhart Clarke * on the intimate structure of the brain constitute a worthy addition to his previous labours on this difficult branch of microscopical anatomy. He here gives, with very full and exact details, the precise position and relation of the several pairs of nuclei situated in the spinal cord. He shows how some of the fibres of the spinal accessory nerve arise from a nucleus common to it and to the pneumogastric, whilst others have their origin in the lateral grey sub- stance and anterior cornu of the spinal cord. How the hypoglossal has a similar kind of double origin, the upper roots arising from a special gan- glion, whilst the lower arise from the upper remains of the anterior cornu. How the nuclei of these two nerves are connected by One com- municating fibres, and how some of the fibres of the spinal accessory actually arise from the hypoglossal nucleus. How the portio dura not only forms a horizontal loop in the medulla with the sixth nerve, but forms a separate bundle of fibres, which descends vertically in the sub- stance, and almost constitutes the whole mass of the fasciculus teres, and then courses forwards to arise from the lower part of the ganglionic mass, which alone is common to the portio dura and sixth. How the sensory division of the fifth is intimately connected with the vagus and the glossopharyngeal nerves in the grey tubercle. How the olivary bodies are co-ordinating centres for the greater number of the cranial nerves—centres of the reflex movements induced by sudden impressions made on the organs of special sense—are connected with speech, and are probably the seat of lesion in certain forms of paralysis; with many other points, interesting alike to the anatomist, the physiologist, and the pathologist, but which there is no space here to dwell upon. Engelken t believes he has proved, in opposition to Schiff, v. Deen, and others, that both the anterior and posterior columns of the spinal cord are as excitable to properly applied stimuli as any other nerve-fibre. Sanders-Ezn,J on the contrary, maintains that the posterior columns of the spinal cord are insensible to mechanical irritation, and any apparent sensibility when they are stimulated is due to irritation of the posterior roots. MUSCLE. "Whilst some are of opinion that the force by which ciliary move- ment is effected is of a nature essentially different from that character- istic of muscular tissue, Alexander Stuart § considers that the general tendency of recent observations has been to place both kinds of move- ment in one category. During a late sojourn in Naples the opportu- * ' Phil. Transact.,* 1868, p. 263. t ' Virchow's Arch.v,' 1867, p. 198. + ' Nederland Arcliiv,' ii, Heft iii, p. 379. § « Henle unci Pfeuffer's Zeitsclirift,' xxix, 1867, p. 288.