410 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. taneous rupture; escape of child, with exception of the head, into the abdominal cavity. Cephalotripsy, turning, death. The following measurements of the pelvis were made: True conjugate = 8*5 centimetres. Transverse = i2-6 „ Left oblique = 11'8 „ Eight „ = iro , * (' Monats. f. Geburtsk., Feb. 1867). A fatal case occurring during pregnancy is told by E. Dunn ('Obstet. Trans.,' ix). A remarkable injury of the uterus is described, under the title "Traumatic Aneurism of the Uterine Artery," by Dr. G-. Hewitt (loc. cit.). A woman, the fourth day after labour, was knelt upon by her husband; pain, tympanitis, and successive haemorrhages followed, and death. Peritonitis and an abscess communicating with the uterine cavity were found, and a sac described as an aneurismal pouch commu- nicating directly with the uterine artery. Spontaneous rupture of uterus, fatal case, J. Cullingworth ('Lancet,' 1867) ; also a case by H. M. Madge (' Obst. Trans.,' x). A. B. Steele relates ('B. Med. Journ.,' 1868) a case of laceration of the vagina ; recovery. A case of utero-intcstinal fistula following a difficult labour, M. Demarquay (' G-az. Med.,' 1867). The fistula was believed to be formed between the uterus and the small intestine. All the fsecal matters passed through it. Dr. M. Duncan relates ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1867) a case of abscess of the symphysis pubis. A difficult labour was ended by forceps. The patient could not use her legs for three weeks after. A fissure was found along the urethra; a probe could be passed three inches behind the symphysis, which could be felt and heard to move ; three days later the finger could be passed into the pubic joint. Much pus was discharged. Cartilage came away. Becovery. Dr. Ercole Galvagni contributes a valuable memoir on the diseases of the pelvic symphyses in pregnancy, labour, and childbed (' Eivista Clinica,' 1868). He discusses them under—1. Eelaxation of the sym- physes. 2. Suppurative inflammation. 3. Laceration of the symphyses. Galvagni collects the published cases of each, and describes the etiology, course, and treatment. The memoir constitutes the fullest exposition of the subject. Two cases of peri-vaginal hematocele (thrombus) attending labour are related by D. Gantvoort ('Nederl. Tijdsch. v. Geneesk.,' 1867). They were punctured ; recovery. Dr. A. Geissler relates (' Ztschr. f. Med. Ch. u. Geb.,' 1867) a case of thrombus of the vagina during labour. Inversion of the uterus.—Dr. Woodman relates ('Obstet. Trans.,' ix) a case of chronic inversion which had lasted more than five years without serious symptoms. Dr. Schnorr relates the following recent case:—A primipara was delivered by forceps of a child presenting in first position. After press- * In the Appendix to the new ' lirilish Pharmacopoeia' are tables giving the relations of the metrical measures to the English.