370 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. description, the upper classes contain more myopes than the lower. M. Cohn shows also that, in the 33 schools, the proportion of myopic boys is twice as great as that of girls. The numbers are then examined with regard to the ages of the children and the year of their commencing school. The author finds that the frequency of myopia regularly increases over biennial periods, in rural schools as in those of towns. He found no myopes among the pupils who had not yet attended school for a quarter. Among pupils of the same year, in different schools, the proportion of myopes varies according to the character of the school. Thus, in rural schools the pupils of the fifth and six years furnish a mean of 16, in the primarv schools of towns of 8'2, in the middle schools of 1 i'p, and in the normal schools and the gymnasia of 14/5 per cent. The age of the children shows a progression in the number of my- opes analogous to that shown by the years of study. The number increases from the seventh to the twentieth year (it is at seven years that most of the children enter school). If we add together the numbers that correspond to the first four years, to the second four, and to the last six, we obtain the series of 4"5, 96, and 28*6 per cent., figures which show the frequency of myopia between seven years and ten, between eleven and fourteen, and between fifteen and twenty. The author next considers the degree of the myopia in the several categories of schools and classes, according to the sex and age of the pupils, and according to the time they have been at school. He arranges the myopes under six divisions : The 1st, M. j1. to M. contains .... 466 2nd, M.,'3 „ M. T'e „ . . . . 303 3rd, M.T'5 „ M. ^ „ . . . -15° 4th, M. ^ „ M. J „ .... 76 5 tli, M. J 6 6th, M. J 3 Total 1004 In the rural schools more than three fourths of the myopes belong to the first division, and the rest to the second. In only one case did the myopia exceed In the primary and in the girls' schools more than half the myopia ranged between J§ and ^ls, but as high a grade as I was attained in some cases. In the normal schools and gymnasia the last five divisions, from to I, much exceeded the first. There appeared to be an increase from each class to that above it. M. \ was not found below the third class of a normal school, nor M. £ below the first class of a gymna- sium. The degree of myopia was generally greater among boys than among girls, and appeared to increase with the age and with the number of years of study. The author then calculates the mean degree of myopia for the pupils of the same class, of the same school, and of the same category of school. In the five village schools the mean degree was ^; in the twenty pri- mary schools, gi.T; in the two girls' schools, ^.j; in the two middle Bchools, ; in the two normal schools, r^.1[; in the two gymuasia,