217 REMOVAL OF CKUVICAL TUMOUKS. " Oa the 12th June I performed the operation for the removal of the tumour in the following manner:—I first made an incision along the course of the sterno-mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation. Then at its lower termination I made a small transverse incision, about an inch and a half in length, so as to enable me to expose more fully the part where the tumour passed into the sternal fossa. Lastly, I carried a third incision, four inches long, from the middle of the first incision backwards to the anterior margin of the trapezius. I then dissected the skin and platysma, so as to expose the anterior portion of the tumour as far inwards as the tracheal margin, which I cleared from the fascial covering, and elevated. Next passing my finger beneath the fascia and the fibres of the omo-hyoid muscle, which were stretched over the growth at the lower part of the neck, I divided them, and had the satisfaction to find that the sub- sternal portion was defined and unattached, and could be readily turned out. I now proceeded to clear the remainder of the tumour by dividing the sterno-mastoid transversely and dissecting it, and the other coverings off from the surface in two flaps, as marked out by the incisions. In doiug this some small superficial vessels were tied. On fully exposing the tumour a large vein was seen on its surface at the upper part. This vein, though distended above, was obliterated where it lay over the lower part of the growth. The distended part of the vein I included in two ligatures and divided it between them. The whole mass being now fully exposed, I proceeded to dissect it out from before backwards, feeling with my left fore-finger for the vessels, so as to protect them from risk of injury. On clearing and raising outwards the anterior portion of the growth from its deep connexions, the carotid artery and pneumogastric nerve were seen bare, as if dissected from their sheath, but the internal jugular vein could not be seen, and the pneumogastric lay somewhat in front of the carotid at its lower part. As I could neither see nor feel anything of the internal jugular, I next dissected the tumour from its posterior aspect, and then from the sub- clavian space, cutting with the edge of knife close towards the deep surface of the tumour, so as to avoid the phrenic and sympathetic nerves and the thoracic duct in the deep dissection at the inferior region of the neck. The patient did quite well. The tumour had the usual structure of an adenoid growth. " In my memoir of Mrs. Jepson's case I adverted to the want of success which has hitherto attended operations for the removal of such deep-seated cervical tumours, as I could find no record at that time of any case in which a large tumour situated under the sterno-mastoid had been completely removed, with ultimate success ; none, indeed, where complete removal had been effected. As it seemed to me that this want of success had led some surgeons to express strong opinions against operations for the removal of deep-seated cervical growths, I stated my opinion that the certainty of complete and safe removal of such tumours depended on the selection of proper cases for operation, by careful attention to the history of the case, and to the diagnosis of the character of the growth ; for if the tumour was of slow growth and aimple character, we could calculate on its comparative definition and