REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 Deformities of the Pelvis. Dr. Blasius describes a case of spondylolisthesis ; the pelvis and lumbar vertebne taken from the body of an insane patient. It was not known whether she had ever borne a child. The pelvis was well formed, but the bones were porous and very fragile. The union of the basis of the sacrum with the last lumbar vertebra had undergone con- siderable destruction through caries ; the upper auterior angle of the first false vertebra was completely destroyed, and in its place was a rough sloping surface. The last lumbar vertebra was in great part destroyed, and had slipped forward on the altered base of the sacrum so as to hang as a projection in the pelvic cavity. A year before death the patient had suffered from sacro-coxalgia, which was followed by psoas abscess ; abscesses also appeared in the vagina, and Dr. Koppe examin- ing during life had felt an easily reached prominence in the vagina, which he took to be the lumbar vertebrae slipped down (' Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,' April, 1868). This case seems a clear proof that spondylolisthesis is not always of congenital origin. The history of the disease a year before death explains the deformity, and congenital or even infantile anchylosis of the sacral joints invariably induces characteristic pelvic distortions and modifications of development.—R. B. Dr. Fairbank describes a case of fracture of the pelvis with injury to the uterus in the sixth month of pregnancy; recovery; death at a subsequent period (' Obst. Trans.,' ix). S. Roberts describes and figures (loc. cit.) a remarkable pelvis from a woman the subject of Caesarian section. It was elongated in the antero-posterior diameter, compressed laterally ; the conjugate at the brim measured 4 inches, the extreme transverse diameter was 325, thence tapering to a truncated acute angle at the pubes. There was complete anchylosis of the sacro-iliac joint on both sides. It therefore resembles the remarkable pelvis of Robert. On the diagnosis of the obliquely distorted pelvis. By D. J. Schneider.— The diagnosis of this deformity is unusually difficult. Schneider has tested the value of the rules for estimating the internal measurements by ex- ternal measurements proposed by Naegele. He concludes that these are untrustworthy; there are no constant relations between the two. He believes a better method consists in observing the form and altera- tions of position of the sacrum ; in the projection of the posterior spine, which approaches the middle line; in the greater elevation of the anterior spine of one side; and by internal examination in the projection of the promontory to one side ('Monats. f. Geburtsk.,' April, 1867). Kyphotic transverse contraction of the pelvis is carefully described by Dr. Th. Hugenberger ('St. Petersb. Med. Ztschr.,' 1S68). He gives the history of the previous writings referring to this deformity; relates a case observed by himself, and describes the pelvis. The kyphotic cur- vature of the Bpine induces (1) lengthening of the true conjugate diameter; (2) contraction of the transverse and oblique diameters. The brim is thus a long oval, pointing behind and forwards; the cavity