336 REPORT ON SURGERY. (2) The second stage is announced, in general, some months, and even two years, after the beginning of the muscular weakness, by a progressive swelling or enlargement of the gastrocnemii, then of the glutei and the lumbar muscles of the spine. This apparent hypertrophy occurs sometimes in nearly all the muscles that have been affected by paralysis; but, in general, it does not, and it may even be limited to a very small number of the muscles. The extension, to a greater or less extent, of the apparent hypertrophy of the muscles may constitute different varieties of this kind of paralysis. The hypertrophied muscles are firm and elastic; they become very hard while they contract, and show all the relief or projection which properly belongs to their con- tracted state; they then appear to form a hernial protrusion through the integument, which is very thin. Moreover, their great size shows off the apparent smallness and delicacy of the joints at the knee, ankle, &c. In one case that came under my observation, both the weakness and the muscular hypertrophy appear to have shown themselves simultane- ously. According to the information given by the mother, the child was very large at its birth. But this information is insufficient; we ought to know whether the great size of the body and of the limbs was or was not due rather to the abundance of subcutaneous adipose tissue than to the volume of the muscular masses. The increase in the size of the muscles does not appear to add to their weakness. This is so far from being the case, that the muscles of the calves, which are always the most hypertrophied, are those which are found to have relatively the greatest power. The morbid phenomena above described may remain in the same state for years—sometimes until a tolerably advanced period of youth. A new stage of the disease, and the last one, is manifested by a gradual increase in the severity, and a more general extension, of the paralysis. The young patients can no longer stand upright; they al- ways remain in the recumbent posture without any power to change the position in which they may be placed; and the upper extremities, if they have not hitherto been affected, soon lose all their movements. "With this aggravation of the paralysis, hypertrophied muscles may sometimes be seen to melt, as it were, away, and then all the limbs and the trunk become atrophied en masse. Although in this stage the patients are reduced to a state of great weakness, they may nevertheless live for a tolerably long time. They are cut off by some intercurrent disease. The figures which accompany this paper represent the appearances of several children differently affected by this disease. Of these cases, by far the most remarkable was a boy whom I saw in the Hopital St. Eugenie, under the care of Dr. Bergeron. Every visible muscle of the body, except the pectorals, was enormously developed. W hen he walked, the poor boy had a most ludicrous appearance. Dr. Duchenne informs me that he has been studying this disease for the last eleven years, and that he is now preparing a small work on the subject. Several cases have been recorded on the Continent, and post- mortem examinations have beeu made. Eulenbcrg aud Cohuheim exa-