REPORT ON MliDlCAT, JURISPRUDENCE. Vo-Z chemical and other agents in solutions of the various modifications of haemoglobin with hydrocyanic acid and the cyanides we shall not enter. The results obtained show that, at the temperature of the blood, these poisons unite with O-Hb and with C02-Hb, and that atmospheric oxygen is inadequate to reconvert the compounds produced into O-lIb The compounds of O-Hb with HCy and with KCy respectively were obtained in the crystalline form, but their presence could not be detected in the blood of animals poisoned by HCy; so that the toxic activity of this substance cannot be accounted for by simply supposing rapid com- bination between it and haemoglobin, and consequent destruction of the ozonizing capacity of the blood-corpuscles. Preyer, indeed, concludes from his own experiments on warm- and cold-blooded animals that asphyxia is the immediate cause of death. In warm-blooded animals there is also invariably paralysis of the heart, but this appears to be secondary to paralysis of respiration. With regard to the blood, Preyer states that in warm-blooded animals poisoned by HCy it has a dark appearance, and never smeDs of the poison. It exhibits almost invariably the band of Hb only, very occasionally and feebly those of O-Hb, and reacts with O and with reducing agents like the blood in asphyxia. Aqueous solutions of crystallized HCy-Hb caused the death of guinea-pigs and frogs, with symptoms of prussic-acid poisoning. The symptoms, however, set in later than with HCy alone; and this circum- stance, coupled with the fact that the animals themselves smelt of prussic acid, whilst the compound itself has no such odour, leads to the supposition that not the compound is the active agent in prussic-acid poisoning, but the acid itself. Great analogy is shown by Preyer's experiments between poisoning by hydrocyanic acid and by sulphuretted hydrogen; yet there are differences in the fatal dose, in the respective rapidities with which the poisons act, and in the circumstance that the latter poison does not act upon the heart through the vagus, as does the former. Animals poi- soned by prussic acid can with difficulty be saved by artificial respi- ration, if the heart has not already ceased to beat. Since this restoration often only reaches a certain stage, and is then followed by death, Preyer considers it advisable to warm the air used in artificial respiration. Nitro-glycerine.—Dr. Honert* reports a case of poisoning by this sub- stance ; the second, he states, that has occurred. A man took a table- spoonful of gunpowder for a boil, and in order to increase the effect of the remedy, added "a few drops " of nitro-glycerine. Soon afterwards he was seized with great nausea and violent and repeated vomiting. According to the patient's account, he became black about the eyes, had extreme headache and dizziness, and several times became uncon- scious. Great excitement was set up, especially in the vascular system, so that the perspiration rolled in streams from his head and limbs. After some time he became paralysed. When Dr. Honert first saw the patient, four hours after the administration of the poison, the whole of the voluntary muscles were paralysed, except the muscles of the face * 'Deut. Klin.,' 1867, p.83.