NERVOUS SYSTEM. 17 react on ammonia or on analogous bodies. By slightly modifying this method neurine has been artificially formed. It was at first believed to contain phosphorus; but subsequent investigations in the laboratory at Tubingen show that the presence of this element is due to the admix- ture of a substance termed lecithin, which contains 3-8 per cent, of phosphorus. M. Marey,* in speaking of the rapidity with which nervous impulses are propagated, remarks that, whilst Helmholtz assigns the value of 24-04 metres per second, he himself, taking every possible precaution which science has yet suggested, found that in certain cases it did not exceed twelve to fourteen metres per second. He adds that this seems opposed to the idea of the identity of nervous and electrical forces, but that M. Gangain has lately observed electricity travels still more slowly through a moistened thread, and that, consequently, the idea of their identity is not to be too suddenly discarded. Baxt findsf the rapidity of transmission of impulses through the sensory nerves to be, on the average, 33*9005 metres per second. The department of physiology which has, perhaps, received most atten- tion during the last two years has been the innervation of the heart; and MM. Cvon and Ludwig, to the former of whom the French prize for experi- mental physiology has been decreed, have been the most successful, as well as most original, investigators in this important field of research, though several valuable series of researches have been contributed on the same subject by the band of workers whose results have been published by v. Bezuld, under the title of 'Researches undertaken in the Physiological Laboratory of Wurzburg.' The observations contained in the report of the Commission of the Academy of Sciences appointed to examine the statements of M. Cyon furnish so clear an account of the discoveries that they will here be given in a condensed form. It may be premised that in 1863 M. v. Bezold believed he had shown that the spinal cord acted directly on the heart, since its section between the occiput and the atlas produced retardation of the cardiac beats and diminution of the pressure of the blood in the larger arteries. This view was opposed by MM. Lud- wig and Thiry, on the ground that irritation of the spinal cord, separated from the eucephalon, continued to occasion diminution of the blood- pressure, notwithstanding that all the cardiac nerves connecting the heart with the spinal cord had been destroyed by the galvano-caustic method; and they showed that simple compression of the aorta was sufficient to augment the pressure in the vessels ; hence they conceived that excitation of the inferior cut surface of the spinal cord acted primarily on the peri- pheric circulatory system through the agency of certain vaso-motor or vascular nerves, and only exerted a secondary or indirect influence on the central organ of the circulation. To MM. Cyon and Ludwig belongs the merit of having traced the channel by which this effect is produced, and they have shown it to be through the splanchnics. These nerves are clearly the most important vaso-motor nerves in the body, and exercise control over the widest system of vessels. On dividing the splanchnics the effect is identical with that resulting from the division of the spinal * 'Revue des Cours Scien.,' iv, 1867, p. 212. t ' Henlcund Meissncr'g Bcriclit,' 1867, p. 473. 2