178 ItEPOltT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. and pelvis were dilated, so as to form a thin case, which had given way longitudinally. The left formed a large cyst, constituting one large cavity, with several wide pouches formed of the distended structures of the kidney and its coverings. The cyst was closely united to the surround- ing structures. Mr. Wells concludes—ist. That the intestine is most frequently in front in renal enlargements, behind in ovarian. 2. Tumours of the right kidney usually have the intestine on their inner border, those of the left are crossed by it from above downwards. 3. If the intestine be in front the urine should be carefully examined. 4. The determination of the intestine being in front may not be possible by percussion alone, but it has a peculiar feel when rolled. The patient may feel flatus, &c, passing along it, and it may be inflated by the rectum. The nature of the fluid discharged (if any) Bhould be noticed, the history carefully sought out, &c. Dr. Guipon ('Gaz. Med. de Paris,' p. 19 et seq., 1868) also makes some observations on abdominal tumours. The first recorded case occurred in a woman, set. 54. She exhibited a tumour in the epigas- trium, which was supposed to be due to an implication of the stomach. It was, however, found that it depended on a cancerous degeneration of the lymphatic glands at the posterior portion of the abdomen. At the last the pylorus had been affected, but not to any great extent. A similar tumour was found in the neck, penetrating partly below the clavicle, and causing some effusion of serum into the pleural sac. Case 2 also occurred in a woman, set. 62. She presented a tumour of the epi- gastrium, apparently connected with the stomach, and giving rise to uncontrollable vomiting. After death it was found to depend 011 ex- tensive cancerous disease of the liver, a large mass being situated close to the epigastrium at the junction of the right and left lobes of the liver. The third case given is of still greater interest; it occurred in a woman, set. 38, who had been frequently under medical treatment. She had a swelling in the left hypochondrium, which was sometimes larger, sometimes smaller ; it gave rise to great pain, and she was frequently seized with vomiting. The matters brought up were dark and grumous, and, as the size of the tumour varied, it was supposed to depend on a cyst of some surrounding organ, discharging itself through the stomach. After death it was found that the stomach had been sepa- rated by a bridle into two parts—a larger one towards the left, the smaller towards the right. The separation was more marked internally than externally. There was also a number of ulcers, some of which had completely penetrated the walls of the liver, those behind being bounded by the pancreas. The great cul-de-sac contained black fluid, like that vomited, and had simulated the tumour. The blackened material was apparently blood from the ulcerations. M. Kelsch (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1868, p. 360) narrates the following case._An Arab, set. 38, came into the Military Hospital of Constan- tine, having been ill for a month. He was extremely thin, his skin earth coloured, his abdomen enlarged, and covered with distended veins. There was great dyspnoea. Paracentesis was performed, and much serum escaped, and the man declared himself better. jSo liver could be detected by palpation, or in any other way. Iodine water was