.'37 TUBERCULOSIS. producible by tubercle alone. Nor is the method of inoculation by- injection to be held responsible, for he remarks that he has obtained results by the mere insertion of a fragment, after Dr. Sanderson's example; "the effects were quite as intense and peculiar as those which were produced by the inoculation of tubercle. Neither does Fox believe that Lebert's experiments have proved the possibility of a purely mechanical origin of the deposits. It is especially impossible for Fox to believe that embolism has anything to do with the disastrous effects of the injection. He considers it certain that the effects of infection are more surely produced by the inoculation of tubercle than by that of indifferent substances. As regards the effects of septic ab- sorption, Fox clearly separates these from .any inflammatory affections around bronchi, alveoli, or arteries ; he cannot admit that the theory of tubercle suggested by Cohnheim's researches on the exit corpuscles from the blood-vessels is supported by observation of the growths. In conclusion, he remarks that the growths produced appeared to come from abnormal nutritive activity of tissues, either certainly lymphatic in their nature, to the introduction of septic matter into the system, which irritates the lymphatic tissues as the cause of the increased growth; the action, however, once exerted, tends to reproduce itself in the body. 3Iore important than any others are the recent researches of Dr. Burdon-Sanderson. In the 'Report of the Medical Officer to the Privy CouncQ for 1867 ' it was shown by Dr. Sanderson that an infective disease can be produced in the rodent animals by the inoculation of tuberculous matter of human origin, which is anatomically identical with miliary tuberculosis, and that when so produced it can be com- municated without fail from one living animal to another by the insertion of the smallest possible quantity of diseased tissue. It was further proved that the same disease may result either from the insertion under the skin of various non-tuberculous morbid products or from any external injury, provided that it is of sufficient intensity to produce local subcutaneous inflammation, and that in each case an interval of several weeks after the primary injury must elapse before the develop- ment of the secondary effects on other parts of the body can begin. These conclusions having been fully confirmed by the observations of others, it was not necessary to adduce further evidence in support of them. The report for 1868 is supplementary to the previous one. It is devoted to the more accurate definition of artificial tuberculosis, with special reference to the mode in which it modifies the structure of the affected tissues and the channels by which the tuberculous infection is conveyed and distributed. Strongly impressed with the conviction that every pathological question must be approached from its physiological aspect, and that no Disease can be really understood otherwise than as a modification of healthy function, Dr. Sanderson devotes nearly half of his report to the investigation of the minute anatomy of the parts which are the favorite seats of tuberculosis, and to the comparison of the morbid products with (he original structures. As the result of this inquiry he arrives at the