231 STAPH YL0RAPI1Y.—NASO-PHAItYNGEAL POLYPUS. textures, especially skiu, should be removed in the same mass with the principal disease." In reference to Dr. Broadbent's plan of treating cancer with acetic acid, noticed in our last ' Betrospect,' p. 226, Mr. Moore gives several instances in which, after apparent success, the disease has reappeared, aud made a rapid progress ; aud in two papers in the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' for Feb. 9 aud June 1, 1867, Mr. Moore dwells upon the impropriety of using acetic-acid injection as a primary measure, and on the danger of delay in operating. The following extracts relate to affections of the mouth, nose, and larynx: StaphylorapTiy.—Mr. T. Smith contributes a paper to the ' Med.- Chir. Trans.,' li, p. 79, on the cure of cleft palate by operation in children, -with a description of an instrument for facilitating the opera- tion. Mr. Smith's instrument consists of a plate placed upon the tongue and connected with two branches, each of which carries a plate resting on the upper and lower teeth of each side, these branches being moved on each other by a hinge, which is opened by a rack-and-pinion movement. The branches meet at an angle (when the screw acts), and this rests in the corner of the mouth. The whole is secured by a strap round the head. The instrument takes up hardly any room, and is very useful for other operations on the mouth. The patient being brought fully under chloroform, the gag is introduced and opened widely. Then the edges are pared from below upwards, and the sutures are introduced (which Mr. Smith makes of fine fishing-gut or horsehair); then the flaps of the palate are held by means of the sutures, while incisions are made to divide the muscles ; and if the flaps do not come easily together, a lateral oblique cut is made on either side. The parts are now sponged out and the sutures tied. Mr. Smith gives a table of 11 cases m which he has thus operated. The earliest age was 2 years, but the operation did not succeed. A successful case at 2 years 11 months and another at 3 years 2 months are reported. In the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868, p. 131, Mr. Collis, of Dublin, calls attention to an article by him in the ' Dublin Quarterly Journ.,' xliv, p. 345, in which he mentions having used chloroform successfully for staphyloraphy in childhood. In the 'Transactions of the Clinical Society,' i,p. 173, Mr. Callender describes his method of operating, which consists in dividing the muscles of the soft palate freely on both sides five days before paring the edges and bringing the parts together. The muscles are still inactive, and there is no bleeding to complicate the final operation, which can be readily and quickly performed under chloroform. Naso-pharynyeal polypus.—In the ' Gaz. dcs H6p.,' 1867, p. 97, M. Hergott, of Strasbourg, relates a case of naso-pharyngeal polypus attached to the basilar process, to show the use of the laryngoscope in some cases of this affection, and the direct access which may occasionally be obtained to the pedicle of the tumour through the anterior nares—that is to say, when the tumour is attached to the basilar process. In this