REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 158 powerful influence of such organisms in promoting fermentation. The clusters of leptothrix, &c, must produce irritation from the manner in ■which they are buried and rooted in the very substance of the epithe- lium-particles. It would seem that it is by the destruction of these parasites that sulphurous acid proves beneficial in pyrosis (' Practi- tioner,' Sept. 10, 1868). Dr. Cuthbertson narrates a case of ulceration of the duodenum following a burn ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Sept. 28, 1867). The patient, a boy, fet. 10, was extensively burned with a hot alkaline solution on July 21, 1867. His wounds were dressed with carron oil (linseed oil and. limewater), and he did well till August, when he began to complain of pain and tenderness in the epigastrium. He also passed blood both by mouth and bowels. This began in the morning. Acetate of lead was ordered, but the bleeding continued during the day, and he died in the evening. On opening the abdomen a perforating ulcer was found on the anterior surface of the duodenum an inch from the pylorus. This was an inch and a half long; another on the posterior surface was about the size of a threepenny piece. Mr. Bradley narrates a case of fatal haematemesis from ulceration of oesophagus and perforation of the aorta (' Med. Times and G-az.,' Oct. 17, 1868). The patient was a professional passer of base coin, who, to save himself from detection, had attempted to swallow a bad half-crown. In prison he was seen by Mr. Bradley, but he seemed, healthy and ate his food without inconvenience up to the day of his death. He occa- sionally complained of vague pains in his chest and. other slight symptoms of dyspepsia. It was supposed that the coin might have lodged in the stomach, and a little opening medicine was given. One day he vomited a good deal of blood and was removed to the infirmary. Two hours after, while sitting up in bed to take some food, the haemor- rhage returned, and he sank back and died. The body was well nourished. The stomach and intestines contained a good deal of blood, except in the descending colon. In the oesophagus was found a somewhat circular ulceration with dark edges corresponding with those of the coin ; in its centre was a perforation the size of a goose-quill, through which the probe could be passed into the centre. The coin had been held in a shallow pouch in such a way as not to interfere with the passage of food. The coin was not corroded. Dr. Andrew Clark gives ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 8, 1867) some inte- resting details of certain cases of duodenal perforation. In one instance the patient, a male, set. 35, had complained of slight indigestion, had break- fasted as usual, and had taken some medicine he had been given for his indigestion. He was suddenly seized with indescribable pain on the right side°between the liver and the groin, and was brought into hospital. There was no tenderness on pressure, his legs were moved about in any way, there was neither vomiting nor purging, nor were his testicles retracted, but the pain extended both upwards and downwards on the right side ; his pulse was 76, and his urine was healthy. The diagnosis was very diffi- cult. He had some opium, and turpentine was applied externally, which relieved him for a time, but the pain suddenly returned and spread over the belly, which speedily became swollen, and in six hours