REPORT ON SURGERY. 234 opening in it. A wide sqnare-oullined black object was at once seen in the naso-pharyngcal space. It felt quite hard to the probe; the fingers could only just reach it. An attempt to extract it, as in Mr. Lowndes' case, proved ineffectual, but it was got out by means of a double-curved long probe. She improved greatly iu general health ; her smell and hearing, which had been impaired, were restored ; and the only remaining annoyance was the regurgitation of fluids in deglu- tition, in consequence of the fistula in the soft palate. This, however, was relieved by dividing the fistula. Tracheotomy.—M. Baizeau relates, in the ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 397, two examples of successful tracheotomy for croup under the age of 2 years, viz. on infants 10 months and 15 months old. The ope- rations were performed in Algiers, where he says he had occasion to operate 12 times, with 4 successes. He refers also to another success- ful case, at the age of 15 months, in the practice of a colleague. The following extracts refer to affections of the locomotive organs: Dislocation of the hip.—In the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 11, 1868, Mr. Holmes Coote speaks of the reduction of dislocation of the hip by manipulation. After instancing various cases in which this treat- ment had been followed, and insisting on its advantages, Mr. Coote goes on to say: " I shall confine my remarks to dislocations at the hip-joint; although mutatis mutandis, they are equally applicable to similar accidents at the shoulder-joint. "There is but one primary dislocation of the femur at the hip-joint; namely, that in the foramen ovale or downwards and inwards. There the capsule is weakened, and the rim of the acetabulum least promi- nent. When the whole limb is extended all the ligaments are tense, and the direct abduction is a very limited movement. A person in the sitting posture may rotate and evert the limb to a much greater extent; but that is not the position in which a dislocation usually ensues. A heavy weight falling upon the hip may, and often does, drive the head of the bone through the inner surface of the capsule, producing a rent at the inner and posterior part, which must be sought for and found before the head of the bone can be replaced. " In illustration of this remark, I will briefly enumerate the following specimens from the museum of the hospital. Series iii, No. 20. Dis- location of the head of the femur upon the ischiatic notch. The open- ing at the capsule is situated at the posterior part of the joint. No. 68. Dislocation of the head of the femur on the spine of the ischium. The opening at the capsule is situated at the posterior part of the joint. No. 25. Dislocation of the head of the femur on the lower edge of the obturator externus muscle. The opening at the capsule is situated at the inner side and lower part of this joint. " Possibly, among primary dislocations, we should include dislocations of the head of the femur downwards and backwards as well as inwards, as illustrated by the following specimen. Series iii, No. 56. Dislo- cation of the head of the femur downwards and backwards, which oc-