182 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. lymphoid bodies (pus-corpuscles), but without any indications that either the epithelium or the connective tissue had taken any share in their formation. The substance of the liver below the inflamed serous membrane showed liver-cells, swollen and granular, but no pus-corpus- cles were to be found. By the third and fourth days pus was readily seen in the liver, where the inflamed and white coloured portions were becoming soft and easily broken. These sections, he found, showed in the interlobular connective tissue, empty blood-vessels, and in their walls a bulky collection of lymphoid cells, which were also to be seen, but in smaller numbers, between the cells of the liver. These liver-cells contained one or two nuclei, but in no respect were there in- dications of cell division or increase. Two days later the inflamed parts contained pus, although this was but scantily derived from the connec- tive tissue or serous membrane. In this pus were ordinary pus-cor- puscles, together with the products of altered liver-cells, as well as healthy liver-cells and fat-corpuscles. In the centre of the lobule, although the periphery was full of pus-corpuscles, were few or no changes. The central vein, when cut across, was empty, and in its peri- phery were the enlarged liver-cells, surrounded by plasma or a few lymphoid bodies. These rounded bodies Koster takes for white blood- corpuscles which have made their way through the walls of the vessels, as they do, according to his previous researches, in leukaemia. Jaffe (ibid., April n, 1868) directs attention to the spectroscope as a means of determining the existence of bile and urine-pigments. Kustnaul ('Berlin Klin. Wochenschr.,' v, 12, 1867) narrates two in- teresting cases of suppurative hepatitis. In one case the patient, a man, a)t.68, began, in the winter of 1864-65, to complain of swelling of the feet; he had long suffered from a cough j he became worse and worse, finally applying for relief, was admitted into hospital, and was found to pre- sent all the indications of diffuse bronchitis. He soon after died, when he was found to have laboured under chronic bronchitis, with dilata- tions of the bronchi, but the base of the right lung and summit of the liver was found to contain a mass of pus, greenish in hue. In the liver it was confined by a thick cicatrix-like capsule, in the lung by dead lung-tissue. A dead cyst led the author to believe that the condition had resulted from hydatids. The other case was of still greater in- terest. A woman, set. 52, had suffered from intermittent fever, and gradually became very low. Her liver began to pain her in 1865, but in 1866 she became worse; the pain was severe, and her abdomen be- came ascitic. On the 5th of February she vomited some black stuff, and died the same day. The right lobe of the liver was studded with numerous abscesses, the size of a nut, following the line of the portal vein. They seemed to have originated in the capsule of Glisson sur- rounding them. Small abscesses were also found in the mesentery, and in the ca;cum and ascending colon, below their mucous tissue, in spots perforating the membrane. Kusmaui, at the 20th page of the same article, narrates a case of what he calls blennorrhcea of the bile-ducts, with saccular dilatation of these—what we would call a case of gall-stones. The patient, a man, ,*£>{;. 28, who had suffered from ague, was taken ill in the beginning of