280 REPORT ON SURGERY. two points of suture, one on the front, the other on the posterior sur- face, including only the neurilemma. In order to complete this opera- tion he had again to turn back each end of the nerve, which would have been impossible if the division had not been total. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis was also united, but not the others. It ought to be mentioned that the palmar muscles supplied by the median nerve appear to have been completely paralysed. Three hours after- wards, M. Eichet again examined the patient with MM. Pajot and Denonvilliers. Every possible precaution was taken to avoid any im- pact to the fingers in estimating their sensibility. They were carefully supported while lightly touched with a roll of charpie or a paper spill. The sensibility was found to be intact in the thumb, the middle and ring fingers, and the palm of the hand. In the two last phalanges of the index finger it was very obtuse, and the reporter observed it to diminish still more in this finger afterwards. As to temperature, she was occasionally deceived, sometimes taking a cold object for a hot one, and vice versa, but this, M. Eichet says, is common to every persoa. M. Eichet adduces two other cases, under M. Nelaton's care, in one of whom, during an operation for neuroma at the upper part of the forearm, the median nerve was divided, in the other an accident similar to the above had occurred; and in both, according to M. Nekton's verbal report, " sensibility persisted after the section of the nerve, before any suture was applied to it." In a third case, under M. Laugier's care, sensation had reappeared some hours after the suture, and M. Eichet doubts if it had ever disappeared. In order to account for this preservation of sensibility after the complete section of the nerve (which he believes would be found to be the normal condition), M. Eichet, in the first place, distinguishes between the two phenomena observed in this patient. The sensibility displayed by the distal frag- ment of the nerve—" recurrent sensibility"—may, he thinks, be attri- buted to the "nervi nervorum," and he supports himself in this by the opinion of M. Eobin and M. Onimus. As to the tegumentary sensi- bility, he adduces a theory of M. Eobin, who believes that the nervous filaments distributed to the tactile corpuscles derive their origin from terminal loops, which would, in the instance before us, be attached on one side to the median, on the other to the radial nerve. M. Eobin has followed under the microscope the filaments proceeding from these loops, and seen them very clearly. They have a diameter of about the i-ioth of a millimetre, and pursue a course of 4 to 10 millimetres before terminating in the tactile corpuscle. According to this theory, each terminal sensory filament being attached to two nerves, the pre- servation of the function of touch would be much more secure. Other explanations of M. Eichet's case might be adduced, as that the peserva- tion of sensation was due to the palmar cutaneous branch, which might be supposed to be left intact, and that this palmar cutaneous branch also furnishes sensation to the nerve itself, and thus accounts for the recurrent sensibility. Only this hardly explains the preservation of sensation in the fingers. Other explanations of the sensation in the fingers, as by attributing it to anastomoses with other nerves, or to a