295 TREATMENT OP ANEURISM. a movable catch, so that the lower arm carrying the pad may be altered in direction to suit either side. The pad works in a slot with a thumb- screw, so that the direction of its axis or the length of its lever may be altered at will, while the lever-arm is bent up for about an inch, and then squared, so as to very materially increase the power. The pad is oval an inch and a half by an inch, and made of hard leather—a point, I think, of some importance. The only pi-otection required for the skin is a little French chalk. When the pad has been accurately applied over the artery close, either above or below, to Poupart's ligament, the lever is to be depressed until the pulsation is quite checked, and the strap fastened one hole tighter than is necessary to secure this, as the skin yields considerably. The advantages of the instrument are its lightness, its cheapness, its readiness of application, and the freedom from pain involved in its use. As I regard it as the perfection of in- genuity in surgical mechanism, I make no apology for thus briefly introducing it to English surgeons." Inguinal aneurism cured by compression of the abdominal aorta.—In the ' Lancet' for Oct. 26, 1867, is the account of a case of aneurism of the femoral artery, situated about an inch below the fold of the groin. The patient, a man, aet. 36, was under Mr. Lawson's care in Middlesex Hospital. The treatment was commenced, on Aug. 21, by the applica- tion of Carte's compressor to the femoral artery in the groin, just above the aneurism, which was so applied as to shut off all but a wave of impulse from the sac. The pressure was very badly borne, from the pain it produced; still the man took great interest in the treatment, and bore it as well as lie could. He soon learned to regulate it for himself, screwing it up firmly as long as he could bear it, and only re- laxing it every hour or so for a short time, when he could endure it no longer. The tumour, however, altered very little during six weeks of this treatment, the tourniquet being apparently used during the day- time, as described, and left off at night. •: On Oct. 9 and 10 there was a very decided improvement in the con- dition of the tumour; its density had further increased, and the pulsa- tions considerably lessened in force. Notwithstanding these changes, Mr. Lawson decided to adopt the treatment pursued by Dr. Murray, of Newcastle, and to compress the abdominal aorta so as to completely arrest the flow of any blood through the aneurismal sac. " On Oct. 10, at three o'clock p.m. (the bowels having been completely emptied by an enema), the man was placed thoroughly under the in- fluence of chloroform. A Lister's tourniquet was applied over the ab- dominal aorta, just above the umbilicus, and another tourniquet was placed firmly over the femoral artery, just below the aneurism. The tourniquets were kept on for twenty-three minutes. Only once at the end of the fourth minute did a wave of blood pass into the sac of the aneur- ism, when the tourniquet over the aorta was at once tightened; but for she remaining nineteen minutes absolute compression of the vessel was maintained, and no blood entered the tumour. The man now became somewhat collapsed, and began to retch. The tourniquets were then "removed, and the administration of the chloroform stopped. Tho pul-