497 DISEASES OF MINERS. Ventilation of sewers.—M. Friedmann* proposes an ingenious plan for ventilating sewers and rendering their gases innocuous by means of aspirating furnaces, through which the mephitic gases are led and in which they are consumed. They are then to he discharged into the air by means of high chimneys at an elevation superior to that from which air is directly drawn for the purposes of respiration. Scarlatina. Dr. Ballard, in a paper read hefore the Metropolitan Association of Medical Officers of Health on November 21st, 1868, attempts to explain the epidemic waves of scarlatina. From a record of his own cases, extending over eleven years, he finds that the least prevalence of the disease was in March, and the greatest in September, October, and November, at which season there was every year an apparent attempt at epidemic extension. He infers that in any year scarlatina may be expected to spread when the mean temperature, having risen above 6o° Fahr. in the course of the summer, has begun to fall below that temperature, if, at the same time, the humidity of the atmosphere increases to 75 per cent, or upwards. As the temperature becomes lower in the course of the epidemic, the higher the humidity of the atmosphere, the more numerous will be the cases. As the cold of winter comes on the epidemic dies away. Dr. Ballard's conclusions are founded on the personal observation of 3412 cases. Cancer fields.—Mr. Haviland brought before the Medical Society of London on November 30, 1868, an elaborate series of statistical facts relative to the geographical distribution of cancer in England. In a map he shows, in two different colours, the fields in which cancer is most and least prevalent. On reviewing the cancer fields the author shows that they all have certain peculiar characters of site and soil, which may be summed up thus:— 1st, they are districts sheltered from the prevailing sea winds by the heights which gave rise to the river system, 2nd, they lie along the banks of fully formed rivers, in low or deep valleys, and their sites, geologically considered, invariably belong to the tertiary and more recent formations, amongst which the London clay, as seen in the Thames fields, holds a prominent place. Cancer seems to haunt low-lying ground, through which large rivers flow to the sea; and those districts are especially favorable to the development of the disease that are traversed by rivers which, during wet seasons, overflow their banks and flood the adjacent country. Diseases of miners.—Dr. Poleckf controverts the assertion of Dr. Scbeidemann that carbonic oxide is the deleterious substance left in mines by the explosion of gunpowder, and attributes the noxious effects to sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid ; the former being partly liberated, subsequent to the explosion, by gradual liberation of the gas from the sulphide of potassium, which always forms a considerable * ' Prag. Vierteljahrschr.,' xciii, p, 127. f ' Schmidt's Jsihrb.,' 140, p. 343.