REPORT ON SURGERY. 230 "Taking the whole of the cases together, in which cancer occurred in relatives, one half, almost exactly, occurred in similar, and one half in dissimilar, organs in the affected members of the same family. " Taking only the cases of direct inheritance from a parent—and these are, of course, the more conclusive—the number of instances of unlike cancer in parent and child is found to preponderate over those in which they were alike. " Now, it is difficult to see how any evidence, so far as it goes, can be more conclusive. It is equally difficult to see how this evidence of cancer being not merely a local disease can be resisted. The only way in which it can be resisted, or shown to be not conclusive, must surely be by doubting whether inheritance has anything whatever to do with the matter; or—and this is a less reasonable alternative—by assuming that the instances of cancer, similar in the offspring to that in the parent, are cases of true inheritance; and that those of cancer, unlike in parent and child, are simply coincidences, and nothing more. ###*#### " If we may believe, on the present evidence, that cancer is really inherited in a large number oT cases, and that, in the transmission of the disease in this way it happens, a3 often as not, that a different organ suffers in the offspring from that affected in the parent, how can the theory be maintained that cancer is a local malady ? "The fact that, among inherited cases, cancer is so*frequently in the same organ in both parent and offspring is no evidence for its' merely local nature. The occurrence of tuberculous disease in the lung, and of gout in the great toe, in successive generations, may be fairly taken to prove for what parts these diseases have a special liking, but is scarcely a sign either of their local nature or of their transmission by inheritance as local diseases. And it is not easy to understand whv, under analogous circumstances, cancer, and not gout or phthisis, should be considered a local disease." In the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1, p. 245, will be found a paper, by Mr. Moore, on "Inadequate Operations for Cancer," in which a series of cases of operations for cancer of the mamma are reported, intended to establish the following conclusions : " That the recurrence of cancer is due to local conditions. " That these conditions are not regional, so as to belong to structures out of continuity with the first tumour. "That neither are they organic, whether as indiscriminately involving the residue of a mamma operated upon, or so as to be transferable to the second breast in consequence of the removal of that first affected. " That, on the contrary, recurrent cancer begins near the scar. " That when free in "both directions, it tends towards the axilla earlier than to the residue of the breast. " That consequently centrifugal dispersion, not organic origin, deter- mines the recurrence of cancer. "The practical conclusions are, that cancer of the breast requires the careful extirpation of the entire organ ; that the situation in which this operation is most likely to be incomplete is at the edge of the mamma next the sternum 5 that, besides the breast, unsound adjoining