TREATMENT BY COMPRESSED AIR. 145 sank on the morning of the 9th, having entered on the 7th. The mitral valve was found lined with warty vegetations, in some parts con- nected by strings of fibrin, and having fibrinous clots adhering to them, one extending into the aorta. One of the aortic valves was covered with fibrin. Some vegetations also existed on the right side, and clots adhered to them also. The right iliac was completely obstructed by a clot extending into tho hypogastric and external iliac. The central parts of the clot were apparently old. The left iliac artery was clear in its upper part; the hypogastric contained a clot, as also the ex- ternal femoral and the lower portion of the iliac. The other parts of the body, with the exception of those alluded to, were healthy. Figures are also given, to which reference may be made. The Treatment ly Compressed Air in Dyspnoea, Sfc.,from Impeded Circulation. The treatment of various conditions of organic disease involving dyspnoea, by placing the patient in a chamber containing a compressed atmosphere, is steadily assuming an importance which must compel all practical physicians to study it carefully. Dr. v. Yivenot records a series of observations, partly on healthy persons and partly on patients affected with chronic bronchitis and emphysema, which go far to place the mechanical theory of the action of compressed air on an assured basis. He examined the pulse, in all cases, with the sphygmograph of Marey, and obtained remarkably uniform and decisive results. In every experiment it was observed that the pulse-curves were rendered smaller under the action of the remedy, and that the "line of ascent" was more oblique. These facts, and a remarkable retardation of the pulse which is observed, prove indisput- ably that arterial tension is increased. And the conclusion thus formed was much strengthened by a check experiment on the effect of diminishing atmospheric pressure. The cases of dyspnoea in which the treatment is useful are just those in which the affection depends on dilated right heart, full venous system, impaired pulmonary circulation, and empty arteries, a condition very often existing in chronic bronchitis with emphysema. In these cases the feeble contraction of the left ventricle is due, not to defective heart power, but to diminished blood supply a terqo. The remedy, by helping the impletion of the left ventricle, affords immediate relief. The morbid condition which it is calculated to counteract is the immediate cause of death in a large number of cases—all those cases in which the mode of death is charac- terised by a gradually increasing dropsy, arising from venous congestion independently of organic disease of the kidneys. Sanderson observes that experience teaches us that in such cases diuretics and purgatives are the best of our ordinary weapons, but such treatment is most unsatisfactory in principle. In order to relieve the venous congestion, and invigorate the heart, we have to tease the kidneys with calomel and digitalis, and the bowels with jalap and cream of tartar. The patient recovers; but there has been much needless tissue waste and loss of energy. Anything like a reasonable hope that we may replace these chemical remedies by a mechanical one ought 10