REP011T ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 442 change in physiological activity, except where the physical character of the substance is changed, or where the activity depends on direct local action, or where the replacement removes or introduces the element or radicle upon which the activity of the substance depends. The effects produced by addition are hence preferred in solving the proposed problem. In order to discover the physiological effect of addition, we must compare the action of the substance before and after the addition is performed upon it; and that this may be done fairly, three conditions must be fulfilled—(i), that the two substances shall be equally absorbable; (2), that the process of addition can neither be performed nor reversed in the system 5 and (3) that neither substance has such a powerful local action as would prevent our observing its general or remote effect. These conditions exclude from consideration very many instances. Such a comparison may, however, be fairly made in a large number of cases, as for instance— I. II. Carbonic oxide, CO . . O Hydrocyanic acid, HCN . H4 Arsenious acid, HAs02 . (CH3)2 Strychnia, C21H22N202 . CH3(HO) . Carbonic acid, CO.,. Metbylamine, CNHj, Kakodylic acid, AsC;II702. Hydrate of methyl-strychnia, C2H26N203. With strychnia a great number of alkaloids may be joined. It will be observed that all the substances in the first column are highly poi- sonous, whilst those in the third column, which are formed by the addition of the substances in the second column, are stated to be inert, or nearly so ; their action, when they have any, being entirely different from that of the bodies from which they are derived. Such a'connected view of these facts not unnaturally leads to a suspicion that con- densation, by which is meant susceptibility of addition, is in some way connected with chemical activity, which seems also to be diminished, or removed, by chemical addition. This suspicion is strengthened when we observe that, in a very large proportion of the cases as yet investi- gated, saturated bodies (i. e. bodies whose condensation is 0) are inert, or nearly so. Kakodylic acid is a remarkable instance of this, and the salts of tetrethyl-arsonium seem to be equally inert. Similarly, the salts of tetramethyl-stibonium are not emetic. The occurrence, how- ever, of saturated substances, such as alcohol, oxalic acid, and corrosive sublimate, having a well-marked poisonous action, and of condensed substances, such as benzoic acid and salicine, which are comparatively inert, shows that condensation is not the only condition of physiological activity; but there can be little doubt that if the effect of condensation were discovered and eliminated, the other conditions might be much more hopefully sought for. For these reasons, among others, Drs. Brown and Eraser turned their attention to the effect of chemical addition in modifying the action of poisons, and selected, as the first subject of investigation, the addition of iodide of methyl to the natural alkaloids belonging to the class of nitrile bases. Certain other considerations led them to expect that, in the case of the natural alkaloids, the poisonous action would not be entirely re-