POISONING. ■? 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 136, p. 172. *» ' Aertz. Litcraturblatt,' 1868, No. 12. ■449 phosphorus have continued to attract much attention, both in this country and on the Continent. Drs. Habershon* and Hillier,t Profs. Tardieu and Eoussin,t and Prof. Maschka,§. all publish cases of acute phosphorus-poisoning. Dr. \Vittichen|| gives an elaborate description of the acute and chronic forms of this kind of poisoning. Dr. Otto Schraube^f reviews the whole question of the acute form of the disease ; and, finally, MM. Eulenberg and Landois** write on the chemical anti- dotes of phosphorus. Iu Maschka's four cases there was the usual postponement of serious symptoms. The post-mortem examinations showed a constant state of ecchymosis of the different organs, especially of the serous membranes and conjunctiva?, a fluid state of the blood, and a characteristic fatty degeneration of the stomach and kidneys. Fluidity of the blood and ecchymosis point to a general alteration of the circulatory fluid. The condition of the alimentary mucous membrane was not constant. Sometimes this exhibited signs of irritation and inflammation, varying from slight redness to ecchymosis, erosion, and effusion of blood. These appearances were so partially distributed as to lead to the supposition that their absence, presence, and distribution, were dependent upon the presence or absence of food in the alimentary canal protecting the mucous membrane from the irritating action of the poison. Masckka thinks that the jaundice which is almost invariably present a few days after the commencement of a case of acute poisoning by phos- phorus is due at first to swelling of the mucous membrane of the duo- denum, preventing the entrance of bile into the intestine, but that at a later stage the liver being unable to perform its function of secreting bile, the biliary constituents are retained in the blood. In Tardieu and Eoussin's case the patient, a child, of whom no his- tory is given, exhibited extensive ulcerations of the stomach and small intestines — none of the large intestines. Phosphorus was here de- tected in small fragments, and in tolerably abundant quantity, in the ulcerated portions of the alimentary canal. Schraube's paper is an exhaustive treatise on acute phosphorus poi- soning, founded on 108 cases, 90 of which proved fatal within seven days. In these cases nausea and vomiting were almost constant symptoms, usually coming on soon after the administration of the poison, sometimes delayed for several hours. The ejected matters are frequently coffee coloured, but very rarely contain blood. Yomiting may cease after the first day, or may last throughout the whole course of the disease. A burning pain at the epigastrium was a pretty con- stant, though not an invariable symptom; and it may be overlooked, especially in severe cases. Thirst was seldom absent, and it was fre- quently unquenchable. Diarrhoea was not nearly so constant a symp- tom as has sometimes been represented, for it was met with in only one third of the cases where vomiting was present. Nothing peculiar was ordinarily observable in the stools ; they contained blood seldom, still * ' Medico-Chir. Trans.,' I, p. 87. f Ibid., p. 99. % ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxix, p. 117. § ' Prager Vierteljahrschr.,' iv, p. 26. || ' Deut. Ztschr. Staatsarznkd.,' xxv, p. 77.