THE PUEltPERAL STATE. 415 eardium; valves sound; no embolia in the pulmonary arteries. The liver was very yellow, not shrunken, soft and fatty. The spleen was enlarged, rather'hard, looking very fatty. The kidneys were plainly in the second stage of parenchymatous degeneration; the capsule very easily removable, parenchyma swollen, cortical substance yellow. The uterus was well developed, the entire mucous membrane could be easily scraped off by the knife when its fibres were bared; there was a con- siderable blood coagulum on the mucous membrane. In the cervix uteri all round it was an enormous fresh blood infiltration, without a trace of loss of continuity. The outer aspect of the perinasum showed a bluish colour, which answered to a colossal mass of extravasations in the entire mucous membrane of the rectum. There was no blood in the canal of the rectum. The small intestine was empty, its mucous membrane pale, but containing in the duodenum numerous blood effusions in the mucous membrane. Microscopic examination showed fatty degeneration very plainly in the heart, liver, and kidneys. The significance of this case, Hecker thinks, lies in the fact that its anatomical character shows an obvious transition step towards the peculiar acute yellow atrophy of the liver (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' Feb. 1S68). Case of suppression of urine, fatal on the thirteenth day. By Dr. John Miller.—A pluripara had mammary abscess. At the end of a fortnight from labour there was suppression of urine. Towards the cud there was intense pain in the region of the kidneys. Intelligence unaffected. Little or no oedema. No convulsion. Serum drawn from a blister gave urea. Kidney exhibited numerous oil-globules. A thin section presented the appearance of stearosis, intermingled with that of inflammatory epithelial degeneration of the tubules. (The case appears to be analogous to acute atrophy of the liver.—B. B.) ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June, 1867). Dr. Hill relates ('Dub. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' 1868) a case of suppression of urine in a phthisical woman who died twelve days after delivery. Dr. C. B. Brodie relates ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) a case in which the placenta adhered ; vomiting and temporary arrest of biliary secre- tion followed. The stools were quite colourless; the urine was not high coloured, nor was the skin jaundiced. Eecovery. Thromlosis. Mr. J. \V. Curran relates (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) a case of fatal cardiac effusion occurring on the ninth day after parturition. Dr. "W. S. Playfair illustrates the subject of thrombosis in memoirs ('Lancet,' 1867 ; ' Obst. Trans.,'x). He narrates four cases. Under title " Cardiac Apncea" is one which ended in recovery. Thirty hours after delivery the patient complained of great weakness. On the third day a sudden fright was followed by syncope, then by intense dyspnoea; pulse very feeble, respirations 40 ; lungs clear. Immediately over the site of the pulmonary arteries was a distinct, harsh, rasping murmur, confined to a very limited space. Heart sounds feeble and tumultuous.