316 REPORT ON SURGERY. entail a fistula. The various methods of perineal lithotomy are then examined, and the following conclusions are announced: Immediate union is obtained chiefly after perineal lithotomy. The median operation is that which is most favorable to the rapid cicatrization of the wound. Among the precautions or measures which favour this result the most efficacious are those which defend the wound from all contusion or laceration, and those which turn away the urine from the abnormal passage. The wound is thus defended by reducing the volume of the calculus to that of the wound by means of lithotrity practised through the wound. The irritating contact of the urine is avoided by passing a catheter through the urethra into the bladder, and leaving it in. A wound thus made by a cutting instrument direct, of small extent, involving as little tissue as possible, in a region removed from risks of haemorrhage, not exposed to any local violence, and freed from the contact of urine, may comport itself like any simple wound, and may therefore heal by first intention. In the 'Medical Times and Gazette,' June 15, 1867, Mr. McCraith, of Symrna, relates a case of " Cystotomy from severe and long-continued suffering from Irritable Bladder." The patient, set. 52, had suffered for about four years from irritable bladder ; and not obtaining relief from the treatment adopted at Smyrna, had gone to Paris. His medical attendant in Paris was Dr. C. Phillips; Ricord and Civiale were con- sulted. He was sounded more than forty times, whilst in Paris, for three months, either with the object of searching for stone, or of making injections into the bladder. He was not at all benefited by the treat- ment in Paris—not more than in Smyrna. Dr. Phillips was of opinion that a tumour existed in the bladder, which was rendered probable from blood being often contained in the urine, with other deposits. He con- sulted Mr. McCraith some time after coming from Paris. His symptoms were almost constant straining from spasm at the neck of the bladder. Rubbing the glaus and entire penis violeutly between the palms of his hands gave him some relief. In the spasm the muscles of the thighs and abdomen were in violent action. He spent entire days on the night-stool, " howling" with pain. The glans penis and orifice of urethra were in a Btate of ulceration from rubbing against the rim of the vase on which he sate straining. The prostate was natural, aud not sensitive to touch. The passage of a sound was extremely painful, and left great subsequent irri- tation. The urine was loaded with mucus, blood-corpuscles, and pus-glo- bules ; several large so-called organic globules. AVhen first passed, the urine was of a natural degree of acidity, depositing phosphates quickly. Under these circumstances Mr. McCraith recommended cystotomy, being led to it by remembering a ease reported in ' Braithwaite's Abstract,' January, 1856, p. 291, in which Sir W. Fergusson performed this operation. Dr. Phillips also recommended the 6ame course on the authority of some cases published by Bouchardat in 1803. The operation was performed in the median line, the neck of the