98 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. eight grains of quinine were given and quieted the disorder at once. A third case was one in which for several days there had been severe attacks of nervous tremors. A dose of eight grains of quinine cured. In the fourth case an attack of cephalalgia had occurred every week for the last ten years. A single dose of eight grains of quinine taken shortly before an expected attack produced permanent cure (' L'Union Med.,' 123, 1867). Tetanus. Dr. H. F. Andrews, of "Washington, Georgia, relates a case in which a negro had his hands and wrists crushed in a thrashing-machine, which were amputated in consequence. He did well for more than three weeks, when he was attacked with severe tetanus. The stumps had united perfectly, except at the point where the ligatures passed out. Dr Andrews tried to pull the ligatures out, but failed. Thirty grains of bromide of potassium were prescribed at once, and twenty grains ordered to be given every twenty-four hours. The relief was speedy ; there were no spasms during the following night, and the patient slept several hours. The paroxysms returned next morning, but not so violently. The ligatures could not be removed till two days later. The improvement was steady and progressive, and in a week the patient was substantially free from the tetanus. Dr. Andrews thinks that the ligatures remaining so long were probably the exciting cause of the disease, and that they were probably not drawn sufficiently tight at the time of the operation ('American Journal,' October, 1868). Tetanic Convulsions in a Young Child. Dr. J. W. Yogel relates a very interesting case of this sort. The child was strong and of good appearance, and came of a very healthy family. It had fourteen teeth, it made no complaint, but had somewhat lost appetite. A powder was obtained from the druggist, the nature of which cannot be ascertained ; the child slept fast that night, and at nine o'clock the next morning again fell iuto convulsions, and was at last conveyed into the hospital. The convulsions were especially on the right side of the body, and were there more tetanic than the rest. The child was put into a hot bath in vain. It was remarked that the convulsive action principally affected one half of the body. The face muscles were strongly contracted together, the eyelids were wide apart and the pupils were dilated on both sides. The skin was somewhat hotter than, ordinarily, the face was bluish, the respiration slow and accompanied with snoring. Castor oil was ordered, and calomel subsequently. There was a question of scarifying the gums, but no one happened to have a knife about him. Dr. Vogel came to the opinion that a bladder full of ice applied on the vertebra) might do good. On this plan several little bladders filled with ice were bound together and applied with success. The whole or greater part of the spinal column should be covered with these little bags of ice ('Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' 48, 1867).