KEI>ORT ON SU11GERY. 202 mixed with sawdust, so that a dry pile is produced, which is quite as effective as the ordinary arrangement, and is portable. Its action on animal tissues is thus described : " The effects of this battery on animal substances are always the same at the negative pole, whatever may be the nature of the conductor used, because the metals are not changed by hydrogen or free alkali. At the positive pole, on the other hand, the effects vary according to the chemi- cal nature of the conductor. Thus, for instance, on immersing a gold needle connected with the negative pole, and a steel needle communi- cating with the positive pole, into the white of an egg, a peculiar sub- stance is formed round the negative pole, which looks at first sight like a coagulum or clot, but is in reality no clot at all, but a sort of froth, which consists of the particles of albumen mechanically driven-asunder by the nasceut hydrogen, and chemically altered by the evolution of free alkali, the presence of which may be shown by its action on litmus and turmeric paper. At the same time an entirely different effect is pro- duced at the positive pole, where the steel needle is oxidized; and, by the development of sulphuric acid and chlorine, sulphate and chloride of iron are formed, which impart a yellow-reddish colour to the albumen, with which they form an organic compound. If the current be applied in this manner, no coagulation is caused anywhere; but if the nature of the positive electrode be changed, by substituting a brass wire for the steel needle, immediate coagulation is produced round the positive pole, which is due to the action of sulphate of copper on albumen. By substituting a steel needle at the negative pole for the gold needle, the same peculiar substance is formed there which was produced round the gold needle. I may remark here that this is very similar to the foreign body which may by electrolysis be safely deposited in an aneurismal sac, and round which we may expect a slow and gradual deposition of lainel- lated fibrine to take place. " The disintegrating effect of the negative pole on muscular fibres may be well shown by inserting the negative needle into a small piece of raw beef, where the froth wThich at once appears on the fibres denotes the chemical action of the current on the same. If it be allowed to pass through it for some time, entire destruction of the substance is brought about. Of course, in the living body, this disintegration would be much more rapid, because there the tissues are thoroughly soaked in a saline solution at a temperature of 9S°." Dr. Althaus next describes the forms of needles which he uses for electrical operations on the living body, and he then gives the particu- lars of his experience up to the present time. The following is the statement in the last of his papers referred to above: " The entire number of tumours I have up to the present time treated by electrolysis amounts to 58, amongst which there were 47 non- malignant and 11 of the malignant kind. "Eleven cases of mevus have been under my care. Of these, 7 were cured ; 1 patient was only seen once, and not heard of again ; 1 discon- tinued the treatment before any appreciable result was obtained; 2 are still under treatment, and so much improved as to give the best hopes of eventual complete success. In none of these 11 cases was there, at