36 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. swollen either by growth from withm or by cells carried to it, especially the former. The lymphatic glands near the wound are usually much enlarged, and their apparent number is also increased ; they are infil- trated with grey and with cheesy muatter, and the latter sometimes softens. Occasionally the glands all over the body seem similarly affected. In the lungs numerous granulations are found, generally scattered, but numerous in group ; they have a semi-transparent car- tilaginous margin and a cheesy centre. Lobar pneumonia and a general infiltration independent of granules are exceedingly rare. The points of origin of the lung deposits are either around the bronchi, around the blood-vessels, or in the tissue of the lungs. The liver is much increased in size and heavier, and is marked with numerous deposits of a semi-transparent character, which can be clearly dis- tinguished from the deposits either of cirrhosis or of albuminoid liver. The spleen also enlarges much. Small whitish spots are often scattered thickly in it. Occasionally large portions of the spleen are converted into a semi-transparent tissue, seeming to be originally composed of fine granulation. Various forms of cheesy change are also found. In the alimentary canal the small intestines and the csecum are mostly affected. The patches of Peyer are enlarged, milky white spots are seen in their substance, and sometimes spots of ulceration in the ca?cum, besides enlargement of the patches. Ulceration, partial or total, is not un- common, the ulcers usually cheesy and granular. The mesenteric glands are almost invariably affected, and dropsy in the peritoneum is very common. Pox attributes it (with Lebert) to obstructed circulation. Grey tubercle was found scattered in the kidney in two cases. In rabbits Pox injected pus five times without producing any general affection, but only extensive local' suppuration. Inoculation with tu- bercle on 7 rabbits only produced distinct results in 2, and in these cases there was some room for fallacy. In regard to the possibility of iden- tifying the artifically produced deposits, Fox takes as the standard of tubercle that grey miliary substance, as to the nature of which there is least difference of opinion ; and he maintains, by elaborate analysis, that the places of deposits and the form of the artificial tubercle exactly resemble that of the natural. He feels sure that the deposits cannot be confounded either with lobular pneumonia or with catarrhal pneu- monia, or with any infiltration of the interior of the alveoli. On the whole, if these new growths be not tubercle, we have before us a new and hitherto unknown constitutional disease in the rodentia, consisting of growths which both in external and minute appearances essentially resemble tubercle as seen in man, which occur in the same organs and the same parts of them which tubercle affects ; we have the same fatal characters and the same degenerative changes as tubercle, and we have no marked character by which they can be distinguished from the latter. The only known disease with which it has the least affinity is leucocy- themia ; but the growths in this case are softer, whiter, and more milky than those of the tubercle. Important questions, however, remain as to the identity of the disease in guinea-pigs and in man; and this question Fox considers for the present insoluble. Pox does not agree with Villemin that tubercle is a specific disease,