330 REPORT ON SURGERY. He regards the effects as being produced by the rapid ingestion of a considerable quantity of alcohol in a young person unused to drinking. He calls attention to the absence of alcoholic odour, both in the breath and perspiration, the incomplete coma, and the state of the pupils. From these cases Dr. Wado proceeds to remark upon the narcotic effects of alcohol, as distinguished from its stimulating properties. This, however, falls rather within the physician's province. Dr. Wade's con- clusions are stated as follows : " i. We ought to use alcohol empirically in acute disease, because there is at present no adequate theory of its action. " 2. When alcohol is beneficial, its good effects are speedily manifested. "3. It is to be given for the relief of certain conditions of the system, and not for certain diseases. "4. The conditions for which it is requisite may disappear as speedily as they may appear, and then the alcohol should be dis- continued. " 5. We ought, therefore, to watch and judge by results, and disre- gard theories. " 6. In employing alcohol in large doses, we should never forget that it possesses narcotic properties as well as stimulant ones. " 7. It is not proved that acute disease neutralises or even antagonises these properties. " 8. It is not proved that acute disease does not render the system even more subject to these effects. " 9. There are some grounds for believing that its narcotic proper- ties are beneficial in certain conditions arising in acute disease. " 10. No remedy which is potent for good can be impotent for evil." Iodine injection in enlarged glands.—In the ' Medical Times and Gazette,' July 29, 1867, Dr. Marston, of Devizes, relates the following case: " Miss N—, a lady about 35 years of age, consulted me in January last in reference to an hypertrophied cervical gland, which, from its situation and peculiar condition, had become very disagreeable to her. In early life she had suffered from strumous enlargement of the glands under the jaw and in the neck, and. still showed a pretty considerable scar, which had some years ago been caused by an incision which had been made into a suppurating lymphatic in the cervical region. The tumour in question had slowly increased in size without any great amount of pain, until at length the integuments covering it had ulce- rated, the diseased growth escaping through the opening thus made, while the skin retracted around its base, leaving it for its whole extent, from below upwards, completely denuded. The mass, in form and size, closely resembling a large walnut, was rather hard, somewhat tabulated, and apparently infiltrated with plastic matter. The patieut was put under the influence of cod-liver oil and iodide of iron, with external applications of iodine to the tumour, under which treatment the general health greatly improved, while, however, no effect was produced upon the local affection, which, from the disfigurement it produced, was a