REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 350 Ulf 1 Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiauo,' 1867. Illl Ibid., 1868. of Calabar bean to tbe eye, after all other treatment had failed. Pro- fessor Businelli, of Modena,* was consulted by a woman, set. 60 the cornea of whose right eye was entirely covered by closely packed fleshy growths, rendered laterally polyhedral by mutual pressure, and rounded at their free extremities, the whole forming a tumour the size of a cherry. This condition had lasted for several years, and was three years under Businelli's observation before the patient would submit to any treatment. At length increasing inconvenience induced her to do so, and the growths were all removed, as close to the cornea a9 possible, by curved scissors and Desmarre's scarificator. Free bleeding occurred, but was soon checked. The after treatment consisted in the application of sulphate of copper, and in a few months the cornea was sufficiently transparent to allow of the perception of colours and of the recognition of the movements of the hand. Before the operation there bad been only quantitative perception of light. The left eye was perfectly healthy. The case is probably unique. Dr. Lucaf states that sulphate of soda, either in aqueous solution or in very fine powder, causes the disappearance, after a time more or less prolonged, of partial or even of total opacities of the cornea. Gruyot J gives the following formula for points of diluted nitrate of silver:—Nitrate of silver two parts, nitrate and sulphate of potash of each one part. Fuse in a silver or platinum capsule, and cool in a mould of the same, well covered, so as to obtain the sticks white. For greater convenience of handling they may be coated with gutta percha, by dippiug them into a weak solution of this substance in sulphuret of carbon. They are less deli- quescent than the sticks diluted with nitrate of potash only. Dr. Rudolph Schiriner has written § upon iritis, and calls attention to loss of lustre of the iris as a valuable symptom of the earliest stages of the disease. He also advises the use of Calabar bean against poste- rior synechia? that resist the action of atropine. Sichel,|| in the course of some observations on points of ophthalmology, calls attention to certain states of the eye in which pressure with the finger on the globe will push the margin of the pupil towards its opposite margin, and thus render the pupil oval while the pressure is continued. He thinks this condition is usually associated with unnatural softness of the vitreous, and that it requires further investigation. Robert Houdin has invented an instrument for measuring the diameter of the pupil, but Fick^f claims to have preceded him. Houdin's instrument, and others of his invention, were exhibited to the International Congress, and are described and figured in the ' Compte Eendu.' Dr. Colin,** in the course of some inquiries, to which reference will be made here- after, met with five case of partially persistent pupillary membrane. Mooren,ft Keyser,^ Korn,§§ and Talko,|||| describe other cases. Busi- nelli^f^[ describes a floating corpuscle that existed in the eye of a young * 'Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano,' 1867. t 'Gaz. des IIo|>itnux,' 1867. X ' Bull, de Therapeutique/ 1867. || 'Ann. d'Oculist.,' 1S68. ** Ibid., 1867. %% ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. § ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. IT 'Klin. Monatsbl.,'1S68. ft Op. cit. §§ Ibid., 1867.