143 VASCULAR DISEASES. markedly dicrotic by the sphygmograph. The patient died exhausted. The pericardium was adherent throughout, and the greatly enlarged heart was gorged with blood. The right aorta was greatly dilated, but a blunt-looking body was found to project half an inch into the pul- monary artery just over the valves j in the centre of this was an opening with thiu edges; other smaller openings, also with thin edges, existed. The left ventricle was enormously dilated and hypertrophied. Tho aorta was dilated, and from it sprang a wide-mouthed aneurismal pouch communicating, as shown above, with the pulmonary. The aorta was atheromatous. Such cases are rare, and the opening generally occurs suddenly. Dr. Wade records (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 4, 1868) a case of abdominal aneurism of very great size, in which the pulse was dicrotic to the feel, tricrotic to the sphygmograph. The aneurism itself only presented one impulse, but two murmurs. He attributes the secondary impulse to the recoil of the aneurism. Dr. Eichardson ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Oct. 17, 1868) writes on non-aneurismal arterial murmurs. He shows that these are common, especially in the subclavian at the apex of the lung. The cause he as- signs to arterial murmur is chiefly resistance to the current of the blood. This may and does occur in healthy individuals—in fact, in many people, handicraftsmen, who use their arms much, especially car- penters. The cause in this instance is the subclavius muscle strongly developed. Again, it may be produced by osseous arteries ; and, thirdly, by feeble muscular power of the arterial coats when the vessel passes close to or through a bone. To diagnose this kind of murmur it is generally enough to move the limb on the affected side, so as to afford freer passage to the blood, and the murmur ceases. Another point is that the murmur is not constant, but comes and goes. M. Dieulafoy (TUnion Med.,' iii, 1867, p. 218) records an interest- ing case of tricuspid and mitral insufficiency without any murmur. The patient, a male, set. 60, entered St. Antoine, under Jaccoud. When seen he was sitting up, his lips blue, his eyes injected, his jugulars pul- sating, his hands cold and perspiring. He had suffered from bronchitis for many years. Still there were no cardiac bruits. There was neverthe- less evident tricuspid regurgitation, as was shown by making the patient cough, when venous pulsation in the neck was greatly exaggerated. The urine was slightly albuminous. The man soon died of dyspnoea. The arterial orifices of the heart were found to be sound; but the auriculo-ventricular (especially that on the right) so dilated that there seemed no line of demarcation between auricle and ventricle. The great size of these openings doubtless accounted for the absence of bruit. In the April number of the ' Edin. Med. Journal,' 1868, Mr. Ben- jamin Bell records the case of a man, set. 42 ,who, while undergoing no particular exertion, suddenly fell down and became insensible. Medical aid was summoned, but nothing could be done. There was great breath- leasness and jactitation, and, finally, the pupils were very widely dilated. He died one Jiour after the seizure. On examining the body it was found that the pericardium was filled with blood. The heart was large,