301 EXUNCLKATJON Ob' N-ffiVUS. criticisms of Mr. Syme and others. At the same time Dr. Buchanan professes his inability to explain the mode in which the ligature of the maiu artery effects a cure in these cases, and he points out the imper- fection of our information as to the permanence of such cure. Dr. Buchanan's caution in this respect was justified, unfortunately, by the results of his own case, of which he gives the following account : " P.S. Nov. ii, 1867. Since the above paper was read my patient has had two or three fresh attacks of erysipelas in the limb, which have caused it to assume an appearance somewhat similar to what it had when I first saw it; so that 1 fear the disease must be considered as having recurred, at least to a considerable extent." In this case, therefore, the success obtained was only temporary, and a knowledge of this fact must necessarily induce us to look with some suspicion upon the other published cases in which we have no informa- tion as to the state of the patient long after the operation. Dr. Buchanan gives the following summary of these cases : " The experience of the operation is as follows. Ligature of the main artery of the limb for elephantiasis has been performed twelve times. " 1. Dr. Carnochan, New York, femoral; cure. " 2. Dr. Carnochan, New York, femoral; cure. " 3. Dr. Carnochan, New York, femoral; cure. " 4. Dr. Carnochan, New York, femoral; cure. " 5. Dr. Carnochan, New York, femoral; cure. " 6. Mr. Statham, London, anterior tibial; cure. '• 7. Mr. Butcher, Dublin, femoral; cure. " 8. Dr. Fayrer, Calcutta, femoral; (pyemia, eighteenth day); death. "9. Mr. Alcock, Stafford, femoral; cure. ': 10. Mr. Bryant, London, external iliac ; cure. "11. Dr. P. H. Watson, Edinburgh, femoral; improved. " 12. Dr. George Buchanan, Glasgow, external iliac ; improved. "Thus, of 12 instances of ligature of the femoral or external iliac artery, gangrene occurred in none ; and only one proved fatal, from pysemia, after the limb had shrunk as much as those which ultimately recovered, an amount of success comparing very favorably with most major operations." On enucleation of ncevus.—In the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1, p. 57, Mr. Teale, of Leeds, advocates the removal of nawus by the knife, preserving the nevoid (or degenerated) skin which covers the tumour. He calls attention to the frequency of a complete capsule surrounding sub- cutaneous nsevi; and he states that when the naevoid skin has been dissected off the tumour and preserved, the cicatrization so produced will obliterate the cutaneous naevus. Mr. Teale refers to cases under the care of Mr. Nunn and Mr. F. Jordan, related in the ' Lancet' for 1866, i, p. 4^6, and ii, p. 618, to show the success of this practice. He relates three cases of his own, in all of which the narvus was seated in the parotid region. In all these cases the tumour was removed without fatal hemorrhage; but in the first, after the exposure of half an inch of the internal jugular vein and the styloid process, a portion which passed still deeper was ligatured, and in this case facial palsy resulted,