ItEPOHT ON SURGERY. 23G cal Society, the preparation from a case in which a man, a>t. 71, died of bronchitis about three weeks after the occurrence of a dislocation into the sciatic notch, which it had been found impossible to reduce after frequent attempts. The causes of the failure were as follows:—First, the rent in the capsule was so small that the head of the bone could scarcely be forced through it; secondly, the lower edge of the acetabu- lum was broken, so that it allowed the capsular ligament to yield before the head of the bone. Simultaneous dislocation of loth shoulders.—In the 'Med. Times and Graz.,' Oct. 19, 1867, is the account of a case under Mr. Couper's care, at the London Hospital, in which simultaneous dislocation of both humeri occurred in a man, xt. 51, from an accident twelve weeks pre- viously, in which, while standing on the edge of a waggon, with both arms outspread and the hands resting on neighbouring objects, in order to maintain the balance, the wraggon moved on, and threw him on to the support of the outstretched arms. Both humeri were dislocated beneath the coracoid process. No attempt at reduction seemed to have been made. Mr. Couper made cautious extension on one of the arms, but as this failed to produce any good effect, and as the usefulness of the arms was considerable and was increasing, no further attempts at re- duction were made. We must refer to the report of the case for the particulars as to the condition of the arms before admission and on the patient's recovery. Dislocation of the shoulder-joint, loith inversion of the humerus.—Dr. Cleland, of Gal way, relates the following case in the ' British Medical Journal,' Feb. 15, 1868:—"Ten days ago I was summoned to the workhouse in the evening, to see a man who moves on crutches, having lost his left leg, and who had fallen, and was said by the master to have dislocated his shoulder. When I entered the ward I saw the patient, a robust middle-aged man, lying quietly on his back, with his right hand grasping the left above his head ; and I turned to the master laughingly, thinking that he had been imposed on. On going up to the patient, however, it was easily seen that he had no power to move the left arm out of the position in which it rested; and it was found that he was pulling the hand to get relief from a violent pain on the side of the chest, at the lower part of the axilla. I passed my hand over the spot indi- cated, and found that this pain, which was that from which the patient principally suffered, was caused by the head of the humerus pressing on the thoracic walls, possibly on a lateral cutaneous branch of an int er- costal nerve. The humerus, instead of being merely displaced from its socket, had been also turned round, so that the lower extremity was directed upwards and the head pointed downwards. The head rested towards the posterior wall of the axilla, about the level of the fourth rib, in front of the lower part of the scapula; and the bone being placed with its internal aspect outwards, it was easy to feel the smooth globular form of the articular surface and the neck of the bone lying immediately beneath the skin. The deltoid muscle naturally was very much relaxed, its attachments being greatly approximated ; and the lingers could be