3^8 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. XI • Annates d'Oculistique,' 1868. §§ ' Lancet,' 1868, ii, p. 566. Dr. Charles Taylor* and Dr. Wolfef have each devised and carried out modifications of which they speak very favorably. Dr. Kiicbler, of Darmstadt,! has suggested a very curious and probably quite original method of extraction, which appears to be compounded, in his mind, of the phenomena of parturition and the method of removing tumours. He divides the cornea through its horizonzal meridian, from side to side, lacerates the capsule in the ordinary way, presses out the nucleus and cortex, and then biuds up both eyes and the head generally in a bandage 10 yards long, stiffened with plaster of Paris, which remains undisturbed for six or seven days. He states that his results are ex- cellent, and that the horizontal cicatrix neither distorts the curvature of the cornea nor forms any impediment to vision. His lengthy pamphlet is a curious illustration of how much may be said in favour of a proposal about which it is difficult to write seriously. Businelli§ relates an instance in which the nucleus of the crystalline lens, six years after its depression, passed through the pupil into the anterior chamber, and occasioned considerable irritation. By the use of atropine, absolute rest of the eyes, and cold compresses, the irritation subsided in the course of three weeks, and vision remained unimpaired. Eight months later the nucleus was still in its new position. The patient was a woman 74 years of age. The whole subject of cataract has been carefully treated by the late Prof. Foucher, whose posthumous work|| has been edited by MM. Bousseau et Vassin. Mr. Soelberg Wells^f has given an account of the relative merits of different operations. Esslinger** has also written upon the question, and the debates of the Diternational Con- gress of 1867 may be referred to. Before leaving the subject I may add that Knapptt advises the employment of artificial lateral illumination during operations upon the eye, and especially on capsule and secondary cataract. M. Daviers, of Angers,JJ has invented a pair of fixation forceps in- tended to hold the eye during operations without dragging upon or tearing the conjunctiva. The points of the forceps, very fine and sharp, cross one another for a short distance, and are intended to pierce (but not to perforate) the sclerotic, so as to gain their hold on its firm fibrous tissue. Mr. Bader§§ has also described and figured a similar instrument. Dr. Noyes, of New York, has invented a much improved instrument for holding apart the eyelids during operations. The wire retractors, work with a rack and pinion, on an arc of aluminium, and are per-; fectly steady at whatever distance apart. Injuries of the eyeball have received their full share of attention. * " On an Improved Method of Extracting in Cases of Cataract." ' Edin. Med. Journal,' 1868 ; and reprinted. F f " An Improved Method of Extraction of Cataract," ' Lancet,' 1868 ; and reprinted % 'Die Qucrcxtraction des grauen Staars der Er\vachsenen._Enke,' Erlaugeu, 1868. 1 § ' Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano,' 1867. II ' Lecons sur la Cataracte,' Paris, 1868. IT Op. cit. ** 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1868. tt ' Archiv f. Ophth.,' xiv, 1.