II Op. cit. H Op. cit. ** ' Annates d'Oculistique,' 1867. STRABISMUS. 3GI outer part of the globe, with effusions of blood around them. Sight was gradually restored. An injury, probably unique, is chronicled by M. Herrgott.* He records the case of an epileptic idiot girl, 18 years old, who was attacked by a fit while turning the handle of a door. She fell upon the loop of the key, and from thence to the ground, leaving her right eye in the key. The optic nerve and the blood-vessels were torn through at the level of the globe, the muscles at a few millimetres from their points of insertion, and a few ragged flaps of conjunctiva sur- rounded the cornea. The patient appeared to suffer little or no pain, and her recovery was rapid and complete. Dr. Edouard Meyerf has divided the ciliary nerves leading from the injured portion of an eye, hoping thereby to prevent sympathetic oph- thalmia, without enucleation. He would have recourse to this proceed- ing whenever any part of the ciliary region of an injured eye is per= manently tender, or when any threatening of sympathetic irritation or of sympathetic ophthalmia appears in its fellow. He raises a fold of conjunctiva over the tender part, and divides it by scissors, then passes a strabismus hook under the nearest rectus tendon, as a means of fixing the eyeball, and transfixes the sclerotic behind the tender part by puncture and counter-puncture, with a narrow straight knife, which is made to cut its way out. The eyelids are then closed with compress and bandage. The direction of the sclerotic wound should be parallel with the corneal margin, its extent must be regulated by the extent of tenderness, and care must be taken to avoid the crystalline lens. It may be necessary to excise protruding vitreous, and to continue the bandage for some days or a week. Dr. Meyer reports three successful operations, and Mr. J. Z. Laurence J and Dr. Secondi§ have each ope- rated once with advantage. Mr. Lawson|j enters into full detail with regard to the effects of injury upon the eye and upon its fellow, and with respect to the diagnosis and treatment of such cases. Mr. Soelberg WellB^f also affords copious information upon the subject. The contributions to our knowledge of the disorders of the ocular muscles have not been numerous. Javal** continues to record cases in which his stereoscopic exercises have restored perfect binocular vision in patients who had been operated upon for strabismus, with good cosmetic effect. He expresses his belief that the cause of strabismus is to be found in enfeebled accommodation rather than in hypermetropic refrac- tion per se, and states that recent cases may often be completely cured by absolute exclusion of the worst eye from vision for a few weeks. A disc is to be bound over the eye and worn constantly. In one case he found that the degree of deviation of the squinting eye was precisely sufficient to bring its blind spot opposite the point of fixation of the other eye, and thus to avoid double images. This may be tested by telling the patient to fix the perforation of the ophthalmoscopic mirror with which the surgeon looks at the squinting eye. It shows a sensitiveness to double images, and augurs well for the success of treatment. The same author has more recently published an important essay on * 'Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg,' 1867. t 'Annalcs d'Oculistique,' 1867. X 'Lancet/ 1868, ii, pp. 633, 784. § 'Giorn. d'Oftal. Italiano,' 1868, p. 105.