REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 164 the case-urn ; but no more were passed till April, 1868, when eleven more came away, after which perfect relief was obtained. The surfaces of the calculi were velvety, not smooth ; they were extremely light, sp. gr. •709, so that they floated on the water; aud they were composed of the hairs of the oat (Avena sativa). Dr. Murchison uses belladonna with great good effect in severe forms of colic aud constipation (vide 'Lancet,' i, 1867, p. 81). A curious case of this kind is given in the ' Laucet,' March 14, 1868, by Mr. Jeffreys. The man was seen on Saturday ; his bowels had not been opened since Monday, and there was much pain in the left side of his abdomen, where a tumour could be felt. A purgative was given, which acted freely, but without relieving the other symptoms. Ulti- mately the patient confessed that a week before suffering from diarrhoea he had been induced to plug his rectum. This wooden plug had dis- appeared, and had given rise to the symptoms. Mr. Jeffreys removed it with some trouble, and found the plug to be five inches long, and to have a tenpenny nail, of which two inches projected, driven into it, that it might be the more easily removed. Tumours, Sfc. M. Bordillat records ('l'Union Med.,' ii, 1867) an interesting case of lymphatic tumour of the small intestine and abdominal wall. The patient was a child twelve years old, which came into St. Eugenie with a greatly enlarged abdomen. It had suffered much from peritonitis aud irregular diarrhoea. It died not long after admission. The glands were hypertrophied ; but the most noticeable phenomenon was a floating mass near the head of the eaecuin. In the intestinal wall was another tumour like the former. Cornil and Eanvier declared the structures to be lymphoid. Dr. Habershon gives, in the 'Lancet,' May 4, 1867, some clinical notes on ascites. He enumerates—1st. Atrophic ascites present in wast- ing diseases or in old age, when it is mostly of'the nature of an exosmosis. 2nd. Ascites from obstruction or mechauical impediment, as when cancer spreads to the cava itself, or even to the vena portse. More frequently this variety arises from chronic disease of the heart, lung, or liver; in the two former there will be anasarca as well. Inflammation of the peritoneum is easily set up in these forms of disease. Obstruction to the thoracic duct may give rise to a form of ascites. 3rd. Ascites with renal disease, or in dropsy following scarlatina; here also inflammation is readily set up, perhaps owing to the presence of urinary products in the fluid effused. 4th. Glandular ascites, a passive form depending on changes in the blood, induced by disease of the blood-glands or of the spleen. 5. Inflammatory ascites, which may often arise without pain, especially in weak and' strumous subjects, and may be variously induced, often following acute exanthematic disease. 6. Strumous ascites. This chiefly depends on deposit of tubercular matter on the serous surface or mucous surface, inducing inflammation, with matting of the intestines and effusion of fluid at the same time. 7. Cancerous ascites. In this form there are many slight deposits of cancer below the peritoneum which cause the effusion.