380 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. H. Bresgen (' Inaugural Dissert.,' Berlin), on haomatoma uterinum, discusses the subject and relates cases from Martin's Clinique. J. W. Ogle ('St. George's Eeports,' 1867) gives an autopsy where a tumour in the pelvis, formed by blood between the layers of the broad ligament, was found; it was the result of perforation of the ileum. The patient had suffered from constipation and stercoraceous vomiting. Gueneau de Mussy ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1867) gives an essay o^ phlegmon of the broad ligaments after labour. Horwitz describes ('Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' 1867) peri-uterine abscesses in the non-puerperal state. They arise, he says, mostly from ovarian disease. In one case he found apoplexy of the left ovary ; cases have occurred from sounding the uterus. Vaginismus is discussed by Scanzoni ('Wien. Med. Wchbl.,' 1867); by Eevillout ('Gaz. des Hdp.,' 1867). Scanzoni does not find the cutting operation of Sims necessary. A case of coccyodynia is related by Dr. G. Kidd (' Dub. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' 1867). He cites the accounts given by Simpson, West, and Scanzoni. A young lady in her first labour had a very long unyielding perinaeum. On getting about she had great pain in the coccyx, especially in sitting down and rising up. Dr. Kidd introduced a narrow tenotome at the point of the coccyx, close to the right side, and above the part found tender on pressure. He then cut from behind forwards, keeping close to the bone, dividing all the tissues on that side. He then carried the knife round the apex, cutting all the fibres attached there, then passing up the left side divided the tissues in the same way. Only a few drops of blood escaped. Complete relief was gained. Uterine Tumours. Dr. Gueniot discusses the use of acupuncture as a means of diagnosis of uterine tumours. It gives indications as to sensibility, resistance, hardness of tissue, and the greater or less vascular development. In a womau, aged 56, a second tumour was discovered immediately after the removal of a uterine tumour, the place of which it assumed. The closest examination left it uncertain whether this was a second fibrous polypus or a partial inversion. The sound penetrated a short distance all round the tumour. Puncture caused no pain. It was concluded to be a fibrous polypus, which was accordingly removed, with a good result (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1868). Dr. Matthews Duncan discusses the nature, source, and treatment of haemorrhage from fibrous tumour ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1867). After referring to the capillary form of haemorrhage from the surface of the tumour, he gives an example of fatal bleeding from the opening of one of the venous sinuses connecting the tumour with the uterus, resembling the attachment of the ovum. He weighs the operations of incision, enucleation, dilatation of the cervix, avulsion. Some instructive cases are related. Dr. C. Lorey ('Deutsch. Klinik,' 1867) describes a polypus with nerves ; and several cases submitted to operation. Dr. Playiair discusses (' Obst. Trans.,' x) the subject of the ab- sorption of fibroid tumours; he describes two cases in which large