REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 66 and use of mild laxatives, and in the intervals of the attacks cool baths, douches, and sea baths, followed by friction of the skin, free exercise in the open air, nourishing diet and tonics, especially iron, and sometimes strychnine ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' July 6, 1867). Diphtheria. MM. Bricheteau and Adrian have made an important step to the improvement of the local treatment of diphtheria. They tried experi- mentally the effect of various solvents upon portions of diphtheritic membrane, and they found that lactic acid effected its dissolution very rapidly, far more quickly than solutions of soda and potash, bromine water, chlorate of potash, or common salt. M. Dureau (' Bull, de Therap.,' Sept. 15, 1868) states that he has applied lactic acid in practice with important results. He reports several cases in which he applied the solution of the acid with the best results, and he concludes by saying that it is an excellent remedy. It dis- solves the false membranes perfectly, and effects a cure more rapidly than anything that has yet been tried. It is devoid of all disagreeable taste, a point of some value in treating children. Being a very in- nocuous substance, it may be used with safety even by the most inex- perienced persoris. Finally, if lactic acid be not a specific for all pseudo-membranous affections, it can by its action prevent diphtheritic infection, and that is a property of no mean value. M. Barbosa has recently advocated very strongly the local treatment of diphtheria by insufflation of flowers of sulphur. Influenza. Dr. Tigri mentions, as a diagnostic symptom of influenza, a measles- like redness of the mucous membrane of the gums, which appeared on the fourth and fifth day of the disease, in a fatal case where there was a post mortem he found the same appearance on the mucous membrane of the windpipe. He considers iufluenza as an exanthema whose characteristic rash appears on the mucous membrane of the larynx, palate, and mouth (' Annali Univ.,' 202, p. 677). M. Moutard-Martin and M. Petit describe an epidemic of influenza occurring at Paris in the spring of 1867 ; it was characterised by extra- ordinary weakness and depression of the patients, not merely during the acute disease, but for a long time afterwards, and was attended with great danger to consumptive and to elderly persons. The Vaccine Virus. M. Chauveau (' Gaz. Hebdom.,' viii, 1868), in a report to the Academy of Sciences, states that the humour furnished by the vaccine pustule is a serous product, analogous in its composition to ordinary patho- logical serous fluids. Neither chemistry nor the microscope reveals any specific element. According to C. Bernard, the common elements which compose the vaccine fluid acquire their peculiar properties by