120 ItEFOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Dr. Burdon Sanderson, in a clinical lecture delivered at Middlesex Hospital, explains how pneumonia may become phthisis. By pneumonia Dr. Sanderson understands inflammation. By phthisis he means dis- integration. By tubercle, granulation or the growth of miliary granules, not in themselves, but in the interstitial tissue. Of pneumonia there are great varieties. For our purposes we may divide them into the catarrhal and croupous. Croupous pneumonia is a disease of limited duration and rapid course, with regular and febrile symptoms, which ends definitely in resolution or death. It consists in the rapid pouring out into the air-cells of a coagulating fluid. Under the microscope this is distinguished from other consolidations by the fact that it contains no uniform corpuscles, none except those which are to be found in the healthy structure. The accession of croupous pneumonia is more or less sudden, and often attended with herpetic eruption round the mouth. The consolidation of the lung progresses rapidly and is of great extent. The fever is marked byan abrupt rise of temperature aswell as by chemical changes in the urine. In cases that recover health is regained nearly as rapidly as it was lost, and the effused lymph disappears rapidly. This disease seldom or never leads to phthisis. The great number of the cases of pneumonia that one sees are not of this kind ; they are cases in which the consolidation originates in catarrh, in consequence of which the air-cavities to which the affected bronchial tubes lead become filled, not with fibrine, but with a material which consists almost entirely of cells or corpuscles. These cases in their etiology and essential nature belong to the great family of bronchial catarrhs. The practical distinc- tion between this sort of consolidation and the other is that it is much less apt to be absorbed. Croupous exudation goes like snow in sun- shine as soon as the patient begins to get well. Catarrhal consolidation goes, it may be sooner or later, but rather later than sooner, and is very apt not to go at all. "When this happens the result is called in popular language a neglected cold. It is called so on account of its usual mode of origin. The patient gets a cold on his chest, he recovers from the feverishness and short breath which he had at first, and thinks that he is better, but he continues to expectorate and does not regain appetite. He returns to his occupation, notwithstanding that he is losing rather than gaining flesh and continues to sweat at night. This state of things may go on for months before he thinks it necessary to put himself under medical treatment. When at last the chest is examined the movement and breath sounds of one side are found defective, and on careful per- cussion patches of dulness are detected, sometimes at one apex, just as often in the flank at the lower angle of the Bcapula or in the axilla, or elsewhere. The case which was before one of bronchial catarrh is now- one of phthisis; chronic catarrhal pneumonia with permanent consoli- dation. What has happened here ? Is the popular motion true that the cold has become consumption, or the dogma of Laeunec true, that the patient, who before had inoffensive catarrh, has contracted a specific and malignant disease ? The only answer to this question must come from careful study, both of its pathological and its clinical aspects. Catarrhal pneumonia is familiar to us in children, for it often kills