REPORT ON SURGERY. 812 order, every case of calculus may be discovered in an early stage; may be successfully treated by litbotrity ; and, consequently, that the opera- tion of cutting for stone in the adult may be rendered obsolete, or applicable only for some very exceptional example which has been developed as the result of extreme neglect or ignorance." In support of the first proposition, he refers to the great mortality which attends the cutting operation at this advanced period of life, and urges the necessity of a practical study of lithotrity, in order to realise the advantages which it offers. With regard to the second proposition, that lithotrity is only thus successful when performed according to certain rules, Sir H. Thompson directs his readers' attention to the fol- lowing points:—i. The necessity for obtaining an accurate idea of the size of the stone and its nature. He recommends, in order to judge of the size, a beaked catheter-sound, provided with an index (figured in the text), which is to be pushed beyond the stone, the index pushed down to the meatus urinarius, and then the length of the stem ob- served, which is pulled out of the urethra till the stone can no longer be felt; or else to catch the stone twice, and, if possible, in two dif- ferent directions, in a flat-bladed lithotrite. Then, by sounding with the instrument still holding the stone, the surgeon can discover whether there is another in the bladder. The note from the stone struck and the con- dition of the patient will indicate with great accuracy whether the stone is an acid or an alkaline one, a compound of the urates or of the earthy phosphates. The oxalate of lime calculus is much more rare, unless its volume is small. The resistance it gives to the lithotrite will indicate its quality. Very large uric acid stones should be treated by lithotomy in preference. 2. The general condition of the patient, a quiet unex- citable temperament, and an absence of liability to feverish attacks, being favorable to the endurance of numerous sittings, if the stone is large. Eenal disease does not, in his judgment, entirely contra-indicate lithotrity, as he has thus treated with success several patients who " had advanced kidney disease, and were passing much constitutional albumen." 3. The propriety of a few preliminary catheterizations, to test the absence of irritability. 4. A short first sitting, and making the patient pass water for the first twenty-four to thirty-six hours lying on his back, so that the fragments may get somewhat water-worn and blunted before passing. 5. The use of the screw lithotrite when- ever possible, as taking less time and shortening the sitting. 6. Having as few instruments as possible. In most cases nothing but a flat- bladed lithotrite is required. Sir H. Thompson only uses the fenestrated instrument in exceptional cases. He dissuades the use of Clover's syringe, unless it is absolutely required, and reprobates the extraction of the fragments at the time of operation; but when angular fragments are setting up cystitis, crush-, ing them often gives relief; and then, the fragments being small, they may sometimes be advantageously removed with the flat-bladed litho- trite. Finally, he observes on the great importance of detecting and removing the last fragment. It is often difficult to determine when there is pain and frequency in micturition, whether this is due to slight