73 GKNKliAL PARALYSIS. found that the left cerebral hemisphere was notably atrophied; both internal carotids were atheromatous, but the left carotid was impervious from the place where it seemed to issue from the aortic aneurism to its bifurcation. In the third case, a man, sat. 44, apparently was sud- denly attacked in the night in such a manner that he was found completely insensible in the morning. He remained in a tranquil, non-stertorous coma, occasionally interrupted by attacks of vomit- ing, restlessness, and severe struggling. Pulsation of the heart and great arteries excited and plainly visible. The physical signs of an aneurism of the aortic arch were plainly recognisable. (While the patient continued insensible, or only capable of being very partially roused to intelligence by shaking him, it was noticed that his right arm ^yas paralysed, and careful inquiry discovered that this had come on four months previously, after an attack of insensibility.) Prom about three weeks after his admission to the hospital his consciousness began to get clearer, and continued to improve for a fortnight longer, but his left arm then became paralysed for a few days. A month later (the tumour having steadily increased in size) he had become again " dull and idiotic;" a few days afterwards he was seized with furious deli- rium, after the partial subsidence of which there was great pain in the tumour. The disappearance of the delirium left him more rational than he had been at all. He died from asthenia two months after this. On dissection the hemispheres were found decidedly shrunken; the upper and outer part of both was of a dirty yellow colour. The arach- noid was thick, pulpy, and gelatinous; there was much subarachnoid fluid everywhere. The brain substance generally was "brittle." No emboli were found in the vessels, but large coagula occupied both pul- monary arteries ('Dublin Quarterly Journal'). General Paralysis. Dr. Domett Stone records one of the most interesting cases of in- sanity that has ever been related. He classes it distinctly as general paralysis; and as the patient recovered, the incident would be most extraordinary, supposing the diagnosis to be correct. The subject was a young man, set. 26, who appeared to have been at once mentally over- worked, insufficiently nourished, and exhausted by masturbation. What is decidedly unusual in the early history of general paralysis is the fact that this patient's illness commenced with an epileptic fit; on recover- ing from this he at once appeared "strange," and began to manifest the grandiose delusions, the extravagant lavishness, &c, which are common in general paralytics. When brought to the asylum, twelve days from the date of the fit, his delusions were extravagantly lofty, and he displayed the most exuberant spirits, while at the same time his speech was difficult, his tongue tremulous, and his gait peculiar. His habit of onanism was detected by the watchfulness of Dr. Stone, and, by moral influence, he persuaded him gradually to give it up. The beneficial influence of this change, aided, perhaps, by the use of cod-liver oil and other tonics, and by much care to divert his mind to- wards cheerful and wholesome subjects, was so great that one by one