In the 'Lancet' for Oct. 12, Oct. 19, and Dec. 7, 1867, Mr. Barwell ULCERATING DERMO-SYNOVITIS. had been performed too recently (Dec. 1867) to justify the conclusion that recovery was permanent, and no return to be apprehended. On " ulcerating dermo-synovitis in the seat of a corn on the sole of the foot," called " mat plantaire -perforant."—In the ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 369, will be found a clinical lecture by M. Gosselin on this subject, to which he thiuks justice has hardly been done in previous works. His own description is as follows :—The first phase of this affection consists in inflammation between the derma and epidermis; the derma is thick- ened, and there exists sometimes a little sero-sanguineous fluid between it and the epidermis. Then inflammation attacks the (natural or acci- dentally) bursa mucosa lying below, which becomes enlarged and sup- purates, leaving a fistulous opening. This is the second phase. If the patient is not looked after, and continues to walk, the inflammation becomes ulcerative as well as suppurating; a part of the corn ulcerates, and underneath it the synovial membrane of the bursa becomes thick- ened, fungous, and partly destroyed. Then, if the complaint is still neglected, inflammation spreads to the deeper parts, it passes to the periosteum and to the articular synovial membrane, so that the ulcera- tion attacks sometimes the phalanx, sometimes the synovial membrane of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, according to the position of the corn. Such are the anatomical characters of the disease; its clinical characters are as follows:—(1) The persistence and gradual march of the disease as long as the patient does not take rest in the horizontal position. (2) The absence of pain, except in inflammatory exacerbations. (3) The rapid cure both of the disease and of the inflammatory exacerbations by simple rest in the horizontal position and careful cleanliness, even if a phalanx be denuded or the joint be involved, provided it is not too : far disorganized. (4) Lastly, the quick recurrence of the disease if the ■ patient exposes himself anew to the causes that produced it originally. M. Gosselin observes that the corn, if it is the most striking cause of I the disease, is not its only one. There is, in the first place, that which 1 caused the corn itself, viz. the persistent and habitual maintenance of I the erect posture. And this acts with more force upon large and heavy persons. Thus, M. Gosselin has remarked that most of the : patients have been powerful men. The influence of this cause is * further increased upon men whose calling compels them to carry heavy ; weights. MM. Pean and Morel-Lavallee has spoken of degeneration of the arteries as acting as a cause, but M. Gosselin thinks that the curability of this ulceration in the horizontal posture is hardly recon- cilable with this idea. He has traced no constitutional causes. Of 1 general causes he has no doubt that indulgence in alcohol habitually to an excess is one, age is another. The affection is hardly met with before the age of 45 or 50. The prognosis is so far good that with care ■ and rest a cure can almost always be obtained, unless the ulceration has deeply affected the bone, when it may be retarded by necrosis. But if the patient will not avoid prolonged work on his feet and in- dulgence in alcohol, (and in most cases his necessities or his tastes will not permit him to do bo,) relapse will quickly ensue.