113 THE CAUSES 0¥ COUGH. tendency to cough. In order to correct the experiment, the trachea was opened. Irritation of the larynx and the trachea at its bifurcation produced violent cough. Dissection showed intense pleurisy, with considerable exudation and effusion of blood in both pleura;. The results thus obtaiued undoubtedly seem in curious contradiction with the commonly observed fact that cough sometimes attends pleurisy, but the fact is, in all probability, that exact observation woidd show that in simple pleurisy there really seldom is cough. The probability is, in fact, that in those cases where cough is present there is simultaneous affection of the lung or of the bronchi. Some observers, for instance, Krimer and Romberg, state that irrita- tion of the vagus trunk causes cough. Most experimenters contradict this, and also deny that irritation of the trunk of the superior laryngeal nerve causes cough. A series of experiments have convinced Notbnagel that the latter opinion is correct. In no single case have we got evi- dence that irritation either of the uninjured truuk or of the central end of the vagus or the superior laryngeal causes cough. It is impossible to say what the sources of mistake may have been. The result to which ZS"othnagel's experiments led entirely corresponded with the physiological law, that irritation of branches of a nerve much more easily produces reflex phenomena than irritation of the trunk. It shows also a remarkable difference between reflex coughing and reflex vomiting. The latter symptom is easily induced, not merely by irritation of the stomach, but of many other places, and of the nervous centres. People have indeed spoken of a centrally produced cough, but their observa- tions are very doubtful and inconclusive. In conclusion, the author remarks that there are some other im- portant points yet to be observed as to the origin of cough; for in- stance, many people talk of a stomach cough, and of the cough in peri- carditis. So far he has made no experiments upon these points, but on the whole he is inclined to disbelieve these statements, especially in view of the results obtained by experimenting on the pleura. However, the fact is established that in many individuals cough may be produced by irritation of many particular places. A small branch of the vagus is here probably the medium of irritation ('Virchow's Archiv,' iv, i, 1868). Dr. Gueneau de Mussy publishes, in TUnion Medicale,' i, 1867, p. 498, some interesting particulars as to cough. After speaking of the nature of cough and the various kinds of cough which the physician can distinguish, he goes on to describe the immediate stimuli to cough. These are, he says, a feeling of tickling at the back of the throat or a feeling of oppression about the larynx, sternum, or even epigastrium; these may be merely reflected, or rather referred, sensations, which almost any morbid affection of the lung is capable of producing, but may be produced in other ways. Cough, when intense, says Dr. de Mussy, may provoke pulmonary congestion, but is even more likely to give rise to emphysema. It may rupture a bronchus and 80 cause emphysema; not unf requently it causes the bursting of an aneurism ; it frequently gives rise to vomiting, and may produce hernia. Two qualities should always be taken into consideration with regard to 8