454. REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. drops without exhibiting marked symptoms of poisoning. Nystrbm himself took a little more than the size of a pin's-head of the poison. He perceived immediately a sweet taste, then an uncomfortable sense of irritation in the throat; and, after five minutes, headache, painful throbbing in the temples, and contraction of the masseter muscles, symptoms which disappeared in the course of an hour. The first case in Sweden of poisoning by nitro-glycerine was that of a girl, 1.3 years of age, who died in 1864, after drinking the poison from a flask. The second was that of a railway workman who drank a considerable quantity of the oil from a flask in mistake for beer. An hour later he was blue in the face and insensible. "When admitted into the hospital he was delirious and insensible, and speedily become comatose. The hands were frequently raised to the head. The face was red and swollen. There was dyspnoea, and loud mucous rales were heard over the whole of the chest. Death ensued six hours after swallowing the poison. On examination the brain and its membranes were found to be congested, and there was some yellow serous fluid in the ventricles. The lungs were oedematous; and these, as well as the brain, were firmer than usual. The trachea was hyperamiic, as were also the stomach and the kidneys. There were numerous small ecchymoses about the fundus and cardiac end of the stomach. Signs of irritation were visible in the small intestines. A sweet odour was perceptible when the abdomen was opened. The third case was that of a peasant who drank twelve Swedish " ort"* of the poison in mistake for brandy, and died in two hours. That considerable quantities of nitro-glycerine are required to pro- duce a fatal result appears from a case where a carpenter drank a considerable but undetermined quantity of the poison. He suffered severely, but recovered. Nystrbm compares (though, according to Huseman, not quite cor- rectly) the effects of nitro-glycerine with those of nitro-benzol, and advances the opinion that they act by means of the same product of decomposition, and that, perhaps, this is hydrocyanic acid, which Dr. Gladstone has shown to be, along with oxalic acid, one of the products of the decomposition of nitro-glycerine in sunlight. The author of the memoir shows that before applying the tests for nitro-glycerine the presence of nitrates must be excluded, since they yield the same reactions with the tests employed, as does nitro- glycerine itself. He recommends the contents of the stomach, or other fluid mixtures, to be shaken with ether, and the ether to be decanted, evaporated, and the residue dissolved in methyl-alcohol. The solution is then to be filtered, the filtrate evaporated, and the residue tested by its action on frogs, its explosive properties (best tried in capillary glass tubes), and by the tests previously mentioned. Bundu—ATcazga.—MM. Pecholier and Saintpierre f have experi- mented upon bundu, the ordeal poison of the Gaboon ; and Dr. FraaerJ has investigated akazga, a West African ordeal poison. Both are, doubtless, the same substance. Bundu conies from an apocynaceous * I have been unable to ascertain the English equivalent of. this measure.—Ed. t 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 134, p. 20. X ' Med.-Cli. Rev.,' xl, p. 210.