REPOUT ON SUItGKTlY. 204 Mr. Henry Lee, that the lamination of the fibrin has as much to do w ith the increase of the tumour as it has to do with its cure, that each fresh layer merely adds greater leverage power to the force of the blood in enlarging the diameter of the tumour, and that the cure takes place only when a bridge of fibrin is formed over the aperture of the sac. This bridge of fibrin would, of course, be only the last of the lamina- tions ; but this view of the pathology of the cure of an aneurism affords a very strong reason for the use of a pressure that will perfectly obstruct the flow of blood into the sac. _ " The first and most important condition, as it seems to me, is that the circulation should be at once and thoroughly interrupted for a period sufficient for the firm coagulation of the blood in the sac. To effect this, the galvano-puncture of Pravaz is utterly futile, and even were it not so, nothing would ever induce me to countenance its use in another case. In one case, where I assisted to kill the patient by its means, the fatal result was caused beyond doubt by the evolution of gases from the decomposition of the water of the blood. The introduction of 1 heated needles or of injections of iron may induce rapid occlusion of | the sac, but they are just as likely not to do so, and they are apt to ! induce inflammatory action. The condition will be best obtained either by pressure or the ligature, and the patient's chance of recovery will be greatly increased if it can be done by the former. The form of pressure which is best suited for the purpose is undoubtedly that of the fingers of trained assistants. But, as Mr. Bryant has most correctly stated, few can keep up an adequate pressure for more than ten minutes at a ; time, and in ordinary practice it is utterly impossible to obtain the number of assistants requisite to keep the obstruction uninterrupted. All the instruments for compression which I had tried and seen tried previous to Mr. Beade's were so irksome that they could be borne for no length of time. The plan by flexion I have tried, and should say of a man who had his aneurism cured by it, that he had powers of endur- ance beyond anything else I know. I have tied up my own leg and the healthy legs of others, and I have not seen one yet that could stand it an hour, while the three men with popliteal aneurism, in whom I have seen it tried, always let down their legs within ten minutes after they were put up." Mr. Lawson Tait then proceeds to describe and figure Mr. Beade's instrument, and to relate a case of popliteal aneurism which was cured by its application. The symptoms disappeared after four hours' use of the instrument, which, however, was allowed to remain for about a day afterwards. The instrument is thus described I " The compressor which obtained such a signal success in this case was devised by Mr. Beade, of Parliament Street, Dublin. It consists of a circular pad, from which radiate a steel spring and 2 straps. The pad is placed on the back of the thigh or buttock ; the spring loosely encircles the thigh, passing under the perineeum; the strap passes over the ilium of the uuafl'ected side, to steady the apparatus ; the strap passes over the ilium of the affected side also, aiding materially to I steady the apparatus, but having for its principal object the exertion of leverage power on the pad. The spring has a horizontal joint, with