499 VACCINATION. that whero there is no sufficient removal of the air in such dwellings the temperature does not vary to any great extent with that of the external air, but is habitually cooler in summer and warmer in winter than out of doors. Vaccination. Dr. Ballard would be glad to see auimal vaccination introduced into this country as a part of our national arrangements for the prevention of smallpox, and believes that good would result from it.* Not that he would go the length of condemning arm-to-arm vaccination, a practice which he thinks it not at all desirable that we should abandon. He believes experience shows, that although human transmission gradually weakens the energy of the vaccine virus, it is long before the weakening becomes sensible, so long that the occasional renewal of a supply where arm-to-arm vaccination is practised, and the vaccinifers carefully selected, is all that is needed so far as the quality of the virus is concerned. He describes, from personal observation, the procedure as followed by M. Chambon in Paris, thus:—Arrangements are made by which a suc- cession of heifers or calves, of about the age of five months, is provided. These are carefully stabled, and fed upon the diet to which they have been accustomed. The animal to be vaccinated is placed on its left side, and fastened down upon a table of convenient construction, and the operator proceeds to shave with a dry razor the right side of the abdomen, commencing from the udder and over a space of about ten inches long by six or eight broad. The calf which is the vaccinifer i3 laid also upon its left side and fastened down, and the fluid is obtained from a pock by forcible compression of its base by a pair of spring forceps, and the result is the rupture of a pock, and the abundant flow from it of a quantity of a thickish sulphur-coloured fluid, which is taken upon the lancet, or into capillary tubes, for the purpose of preservation. The animal on the table is vaccinated upon the shaven surface by puncture in sixty or eighty places, and means are adopted to prevent subsequent injury by biting or licking. Pocks, which finally attain the size of large human vaccine pocks, speedily begin to rise, and are used for the vaccination of children from the fourth to the sixth day. Sub- sequently to this the vaccine they contain is found to be less active, but still sufficiently so for the vaccination of another calf, for which the pocks left unopened are therefore used on the seventh or eighth day. The grounds upon which animal vaccination is advocated are mainly three, and refer to the following points, namely, the quantity of virus which may, so to speak, be manufactured, its energetic quality, and its purity. If animal vaccination were regularly practised the dangerous delays which not unfrequently occur during threatened outbreaks of smallpox from a failure in the requisite supply of lymph could not take place, since the supply from sixty or seventy pocks would be practically inexhaustible. Another advantage is that the vaccinifer can be readily made to travel to any place where a local demand for virus may sud- denly arise. One or two heifers kept in London, for example, would * 'The Public Health,' 1868, p.8.