166 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. In obstruction of the small intestine. 1. The pain and other symptoms are more acute and the course more rapid. 2. Vomiting is early and urgent. 3. The urine is scanty. 4. Distension is early, hut not excessive, and affects the small intestine alone. In obstruction of the large intestine. 1. The pain and other symptoms are less acute and their course more gradual. 2. Vomiting is long delayed, or of but little severity. 3. The urine is abundant. 4. Distension occurs only'after^an interval, but reaches an extreme degree, and affects especially the large intestine, 80 that the transverse colon may be seen crossing the upper part of the abdomen, and there is fulness in one or both loins. In a certain number, says Dr. Fagge, these distinctions are main- tained, but this result is accidental, and the above criteria are in a great degree invalid when applied to individual cases. In proof of this he cites two cases. r. A man suffers from attacks of abdominal pain, in which the coils of intestine can be seen aud heard working in the abdomen; he has suffered from these attacks for four moutlis before admission, and con- tinues to do so during the month he resides in hospital; he has neither nausea nor sickness ; his bowels are costive, and he is constantly obliged to take aperients; the abdomen is prominent and rounded, but the dis- tension is chiefly confined to the lower part of the belly 5 there is no anxiety of countenance. In this case the symptoms were those of obstruction of the large intestine, but the post-mortem examination ultimately showed that the ileum was the seat of the disease. 2. A young woman, previously quite well, is taken ill on October 4. From that time she retches constantly, and brings up some tea and some brandy which she has swallowed. She is in continual pain. She is admitted on the 7th, and dies on the following day. On her ad- mission she is much collapsed, and has great anxiety of face. She passes only 2*2 oz. of urine after this time. Her medical attendant had previously introduced a catheter, but drew off merely a little bloody liquid. The abdomen is enormously distended, tense, and hard ; it pre- sents a transverse line about midway between the epigastrium and umbilicus. In this case, again, the symptoms are almost all such as would indicate obstruction of the ileum, but on post-mortem examination the point of stricture is found to be the sigmoid flexure of the colon. In each of these cases there was one feature which pointed in a different direc- tion from the other symptoms, and, as it happened, in the right direc- tion. This was the form of belly. In the first case distension was limited to the lower part of the belly ; this might lead one to think the obstruction was above the large intestine. Still the inference would not, as other cases given by Dr. Fagge show, be justified by experience. So, again, the line across the abdomen in the second case would go to