THE NJiW-BOKN INFANT. deeply, aud in such a manner that the volar surface of the hand lies gently ou the child's belly over the region of the liver. In no case, says Lowenhardt, in which this beat was not felt has the child recovered. He then describes his apparatus. It consists of a pump aud a fine india-rubber tube ten inches long, with catheter openings at the end. This tube is inserted by the aid of a fine stilet into the trachea in the following way :—An assistant with thumb and finger presses the neck above the larynx, closing the oesophagus, whilst the operator depresses the tongue with his forefinger, and slips in the tube. This tube is then attached to the aspirating-pump, which is used to draw out the obstructing fluids; then air is gently introduced (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.' 1867). Dr. C. Hecker relates a case in which asphyxia was caused by cou- geuital struma. The thyroid gland was remarkably enlarged (ibid., 1868). Lowenhardt describes ('Monschr. f. Geb.,' 1867) an apparatus for catheterizing the air-passages. The operation is also discussed by Bill- mann ('Bay. Aerztl. Intell. Bl.,' 1867), and eulogised. Dr. Beneke relates the following:—A child delivered by turning, in eighth month, was born asphyxiated; its breathing and heart-beat had ceased about fifteen minutes. Five quarters of an ounce of well- defibrinated and warm blood were injected by a glass syringe into the vein of the umbilicus. Breathing and pulsation ensued, but the ill- developed child died in nine hours. No thrombi were found anywhere. The brain was anaernic ('Berlin Klin. Wchns.,' 1867). Diseases of JEmlryo and Neiu-lom Child. Hereditary convulsions, confined to the males of a family, occurring during infancy and at about the eighth month of intra-uterine life, J. Curgenvan (' Obst. Trans.,' ix). Case of imperforate anus, the child living ten weeks without relief from bowel, after two unsuccessful operations, same author (loc. cit.). Foetal peritonitis, W. H. Hunt (loc. cit.). Dr. J. Whitehead ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1867) describes several remarkable cases of convulsions of the foetus in utero. On hcematoma of the dura mater, by B. "Wagner (' Jahrb. f. Kinderk.,' 1868). E. Virchow details ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1867) observations upon congenital encephalitis and myelitis, conditions which he thinks are not seldom causes of death in new-born infants. He finds a fatty me- tamorphosis of the cells of the central or white substances of the brain and cord. He takes this to be the result of inflammation. He has observed it chiefly in cases of syphilis and of the acute exanthemata, especially small-pox, affecting the mother. He suggests that encepha- litis and myelitis may have an active influence in the production of infantile paralysis and jaundice. Dr. Scharlau has gathered together all the scattered cases of so-called congenital rickets. Ho then discusses the conclusions to be drawn from them. He describes minutely two cases which had come under his own