122 ltKrOliT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. minute bronchi, with cheesy contents and surrounded with thickened cells inflated with cheesy matter. The final result is that in a vast number of cases of "phthisis" not one single tubercle can be found, and the thickenings and alterations of the lungs are to be traced solelv to the destructive pneumonia. Niemeyer does not, however, hold with the view that true tubercle is rare in caseous pneumonia; but he considers that the tuberculosis is usually a secondary event, occurring at an advanced stage of the disease. Only in a comparatively small number of cases, where tubercles are found in the lungs along with the products of caseous pueuraonia, can we establish by reasonable proof the opinion that the tuberculosis has been the primary event, and that the cavities have been produced partly by the softening and emptying of tubercle-masses. Here the tubercle is probably first produced in the bronchial mucous membrane, as Virchow showed. The pneumonic process which complicates this true tubercular consumption is far more extended than in the form of phthisis previously described. The greater the contrast between the high fever, the rapid wasting and severe dyspnoea, and the slightness of the consolidation-signs, the greater the patient's danger; while, on the other hand, the prognosis is better if there be a just correspondence between the two sets of phenomena, for in the latter case we may hope that there is only a pneumonic, and not a true tubercular phthisis. Niemeyer asserts that it is quite wrong to suppose that only one form of pneumonia—the " caseous "—can lead to phthisis, or that any one form necessarily terminates in phthisis; but doubtless the cheesy form of pneumonic deposit is more likely to lead to mischief than the croupal, from its much less facility of solution and consequent absorption. Acute catarrhal pneumonia most frequently occurs in the course of measles and of hooping-cough; it is lobular at first, but afterwards extends to whole lobes. But an ordinary genuine catarrhal pneumonia, also, not rarely leads to fatal consumption, by extending to the alveoli, and causing consolidation of the'lung-tissues. Where this happens rapidly, with the classic symptoms of "galloping" consumption, it has been commonly the practice to speak of a " tuberculous infiltration," masked by a false show of a mere feverish bronchial catarrh; but this is incorrect. Chronic catarrhal pneumonia is one of the most frequent of all diseases, and hence the mistaken notion that tubercle of the lung is common. It is not difficult to understand why it should so much more frequently lead, to cheesy infiltration than the acute form of catarrh does. The protracted course of the disease gives time for a large agglo- meration of the cell-elements (which are constantly proliferating with abnormal rapidity), and the consequent mechanical distension of the alveoli accounts for much of the tendency to necrobiosis. Chronic catar- rhal pneumonia may occur either in previously sound lungs, or in lungs already consolidated and cavernous; in the former case it may lay the first foundations of caseous phthisis, in the latter it aggravates already existing mischief. Persons with "sound" health have no immunity against" catarrhal pneumonia, though the weakly are more frequently affected.