CH0LK11A. -189 During the succeeding winter the epidemic abated only to invade Persia in 1867, which it traversed from west to east, becoming entirely- extinct in the succeeding winter. Two pilgrimages have taken place since the sitting of the conference in 1S66, and no outbreak of cholera has appeared during either. This confirms the opinion of that body that the disease is not endemic in Mecca. Owing to tbe increased stringency of the regulations for ships carrying pilgrims from India the number of those proceediug by sea has decreased, and no cholera has appeared among them; on the other hand, the number of pilgrims travelling overland across Arabia has much increased. The Turkish Government has carried out the recommendations of the conference most admirably under a mixed sauitary commission of Mussulman and Christian doctors. Suffice it to state that Mecca and Djeddah (the latter the chief port of embarkation for pilgrims) have undergone a complete sanitary revolution; quays, sewers, slaughter-houses, tents, lodgings, and a hospital, have been erected; and the streets of Mecca are regularly swept and watered thrice a day. The sacrifices, too, are placed under the control of the commission. It is to be regretted that the same praise cannot be awarded to the Egyptian Government; they have made regulations for the transport of pilgrims, it is true, but they have not made any attempt to put them into execution. The ' Ninth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Couucil' is one of peculiar interest, since it deals with the large question of cholera, more especially with reference to the outbreak of 1866. The disease appeared for the first time that year on the 28th of April, at Bristol, in a trader who had arrived there sick from Rotterdam. On May 15th the disease was prevalent among German and Dutch emigrants, who, with a view of crossing the Atlantic for New York, had come in flocks, travelling rapidly from the Continent, often from infected parts of it, by way of Hull, Grimsby, and other of our north-eastern ports, and had now fallen ill at their port of embarkation. A few days after the 15th two cases occurred in Swansea, the first of what afterwards became a serious outbreak, and single cases occurred in various parts of the country. On June 15th the Peninsular and Oriental Company's steam Bhip Poonah arrived at Southampton with a case of cholera on board, and several other cases appeared in the town. On the 29th two deaths were reported at Goole, the disease having clearly been imported from Antwerp. On the 30th three deaths were reported to have occurred at jNorthwich, in Cheshire, and on the same day a case of cholera occurred at Shields, on board a vessel from Hamburg. On July 3rd a case occurred at Harwich, on board a vessel from Brussels, and on the same day the death of the captain of a coasting vessel was reported from Brixham. The " Diseases Prevention Act" was now put in force throughout the whole of England and Wales, with a view to stop- ping the spread of the disease. On July 18th the first cholera death in the metropolis waa reported from Poplar, and two days later it was known that there was already an alarming proportion of cholera cases in parts of East London. Details of this well-known outbreak are given in sub-reports.