CANCER. organs—then cancer passes from parent to offspring as a general and not a local disease. It belongs indifferently to all the body. Its con- stitutional nature is established." And he then proceeds to say that such is not the result of his experience, although he is not in a position to state the fact numerically. In his later paper ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. i, 1S66), he supplies the want by a relation of 24 cases of cancer, which occurred iu the relatives of cancerous patients who were under the care of various members of the British Medical Association. "One half of these multiple cancers, in related persons, occupied similar, and one half dissimilar, organs." Mr. Baker then proceeds to give a summary of Mr. Paget's practice from the 'Bartholomew's Hospital Eeports,' ii, 1866:—"They have been collected from those of his cases in which any information of the kind had been recorded, and have been arranged in the order in which they occurred, without reference to any particular result. It is unne- cessary to quote the whole table, which may be found in the place to which a reference has been given. It will suffice to say that altogether I have been enabled to tabulate 83 cases in which the occurrence of cancer, in more than one member of a family, had been recorded, to- gether with the situation of the cancer in the relatives affected. Ex- amination of the cases gave the following result: " There were altogether 45 instances (in 41 families) of direct inheritance from father or mother; and of these the disease was in the same organ in both parent and child in 19, and in different organs in 26 instances. "It is a curious fact that in all the cases but one, in which the disease occupied the same site in both generations, the breast was the organ affected; the exception was the uterus. As might be expected from this fact, almost all these patients were females, only one case occurring of cancer of the breast inherited by a male. "Among the cases of direct inheritance from a parent, but in which the disease was transmitted to a different organ in the child, 9 were in- stances of inheritance from the father and 17 from the mother. " There were 16 instance (in 14 families) of inheritance from a grand- parent, or great-grandparent, or both; of these, 8 were cases of cancer in the same, and 8 in a different, organ in the two generations. As before, the cases of disease of the same site in both generations were cases of cancer of the breast, with a doubtful exception. " There were 49 families—some of them have been included in the former statement—2 or more members of which had cancer, the rela- tionship between whom, however, was not that of parent, or grand- parent, and child. Of these, 28 were families in which the disease was seated in the same organ in all the relatives affected; 21 in which different organs were attacked. " There were 25 instances of the disease in brothers or sisters, or in brother and sister. In 14 of these the same organ suffered in both the relatives affected; in 11, a different one. " The whole of the 28 instances of cancer of the same organ, in all the affected relatives, were cancer of the female breast; and 14 of them were in sisters.