OBSTETRIC OPERATION'S. 403 creased. The structure and powers of the forceps are minutely discussed in Dr. Barnes' lectures (' Med. Times and G-az.,' 1868). Dr. Casati describes ('Annal. Univ.,' 1867) the indications and rules for using the forceps in Milan. This instrument was resorted to 12 times in 478 labours ; in 9 to the head at brim of the pelvis, in 3 when head was in canty; the blades were applied over the temporo-parietal regions of the head, so as to seize in the most reducible diameter, and keeping the pelvic curve directed towards that part of the foetal head which had to be conducted under the pubic symphysis. The instrument used is that of Professor Lovati, preferred on account of its length and its power of compressing the head, and thus avoiding turning or craniotomy. The range of pelvic deformity in which the forceps was used was from 2'g in. to 3^2 in. conjugate diameter. Three of the children were born dead; of the mothers, 4 died, namely, 3 of puerperal fever, 1 of eclampsia. Professor E. Martin discusses the use of turning in contracted pelvis. He denies the proposition that the head enters the brim with more facility base first if the child is living. He insists that when the vault presents, moulding may go on gradually and safely for hours, whereas if the base come first the moulding must be effected by force and within five minutes in order to save the child. He points to the importance of getting the smaller or bi-temporal diameter of the head into the contracted conjugate diameter, and the occiput with the greater or bi-parietal diameter into the larger side of the pelvis. This may be effected in three ways:—(1) By a fitting position of the woman. Let her lie on that side towards which the forehead is directed ; the fundus of the uterus will gradually sink with the pelvic end of the child to this side; the spine draws down the occiput to the opposite side of the pelvis, and the forehead goes more deeply towards the middle of the brim. Martin refers to a case in which he successfully executed this, the pelvis measuring only three inches. (2) The forceps is a means of releasing the engaged posterior or larger transverse diameter from being locked in the conjugate. This explains the frequent easy extrac- tion when a little traction is made. This method is indicated when signs of exhaustion or of need for delivery exist. But it must not be trusted to overmuch ; he must be prepared to perforate. (3) Turning by the feet. When this has been done, Martin has always found the depression caused by the promontory to be on the temporal bone. In many of these cases he found, after some hours, signs of blood-effusion in the cranium, ex. gr. convulsions in the face. He thinks turning is advisable only when the transverse diameter of the pelvis is great enough to allow the occiput to pass by the side of the promontory. Jn the case of one-sided distortion of the pelvis turning is hardly admissible. Martin refers to cases in which, the occiput descending in the narrow half of the pelvis, delivery had to be accomplished by per- foration, whereas when the occiput was turned to the normal side of the pelvis the forceps delivered easily. This occurred in the same patient. He also gives cases in which, the occiput being unfavorably situated, a face-presentation was developed. This happened twice in the same woman under his own observation.