INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 167 show that the colon was affected low down; but other cases contradict the validity of the sign. Dr. Fagge is inclined to believe that the seat is not so much the key to the symptoms as is the nature of the obstruction, i. e. of the patho- logic lesion causing it, being of one kind in a case of stricture, whether ft 1*1* of ileum or rectum, and of another kind in a case of strangulation ot the bowel, whether of the small intestine and its mesentery by a band or of the sigmoid flexure by a twist of that bowel on its own axis. But strictures of the large intestine are common, those of the small intes- tine rare ; whilst, conversely, it is the ileum, and not the colon, which is most apt to become strangulated. So that thus the distinctions which depend on the nature of the lesion have been associated rather with its seat. Dr. Fagge then proceeds to inquire into the value of the symptom scanty urine as indicating obstruction of the small intestine. Dr. Barlow was the first to point out the importance of this indication; he attributed it to the seat of the disease; some later writers rather to the quantity of fluid vomited in obstruction of the upper portion of the small intestine. Dr. Fagge inclines to the view of Mr. Sedgwick, that the site causes the suppression, but not on account of its interfering with the absorption of fluid so much as with the innervation of the parts concerned. Dr. Fagge next proceeds to give, in their respective order, all the different causes of obstruction he has above described, with the cases illustrative of each. He is in favour of exploratory operations in carefully selected cases of internal strangulation; of in- flation for intussusception. With regard to volvulus, he gives no decided opinion. Other papers on the diseases of the alimentary organs :— Galvagni, ascites caused by sweating (' Rev. Clin.,' vi, 3 Marzo, 1867). Prof. E.Wagner, researches on the pathological anatomy of the oesophagus ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' viii, 5). Lasaigne, on peritonitis ('Arch. Gen.,5 4 ser., ix, p. 448). Bluchez, on peritonitis (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 109, 1867). Duparcque, on peritonitis (ibid., 110, 1867). Hoffmann, case of perforation of the gnt (' Viichow's Archiv,' xlii, p. 227, 1868). Fuller, on excess of urea as a guide to the diagnosis of certain forms of dyspepsia (' Proc. Med. Cbir. Soc./ Nov. 26, 1867). Bristowe, ascites. Dr. Bristowe advised, when other means had failed, the u=e or tonics, which in his hands had proved successful (' Clin. Soc.,' Nov. 13, 1868). De Savignac, paralysis which accompanies and follows dysentery (' l'TJnion Me i.,' m, 1867, p. 200). Kerr, new remedy for dysentery. This consists principally of digitalis, but the exact composition is not given in the paper referred to, but in a former one; he reports much success (-Edin. Med. Journ./ Sept., 1867). Hamilton, obstruction of the bowels (ibid., Oct. 1867). Farquharson. perineal abscess (ibid., June, 1868). Aliliaus, obstinate constipation treated by faradisation of the bowel ('Lancet,' Nov. 16, 1867). Day, gastrodynia (ibid., Dec. 21 et seq., 1867). Habershon, catarrh of the colon (ibid., Jan. 4, 1868). Habershon, pleuritic effusion on the left side as a cause of flatulence and dyspepsia (ibid., Feb. 8, 1868). M..ses, stercoraceous vomiting lasting seventeen days; recovery ('ibid., March 29, 1868). \V. D. Jones, fatal liajmate- me*U, In tins case there was great contraction of the liver, and the vessels of the stomach were remarkably dilated (ibid., March 29, 1868). Maunder, diagnosis of objure disease of the reciuni. The author puts the patient under chloroform, oils his han.i, and introduces it obstetric fashion as far as the knuckles, and thus obtains more room (ibid., May 9, 1868). Everet, gastrodynia (ibid., May 9, 1868). Hewan, treat- ment of dysentery by ipecacuan and by a new remedy. This is Kerr's remedy, above alluded to. It contains opium, stramonium, dulcamara, and digitalis, sium' liueare,