324 REPORT ON* SURGERY. a sore of mixed character may be produced by commerce between a person of one sex who has one kind of sore and one of the other sex having a sore of the other sort. Thus he explains the cases in which a true syphilitic or infecting chancre has appeared to be auto-inoculable. These mixed ulcers he believes to be not very common. They may, he says, become simple, and return to either of their constituent elements. If on a venereal (non-infecting) ulcer the syphilitic (or infecting) virus is inoculated, it will only transmit the venereal ulcer during the period of incubation of the syphilitic virus ; afterwards it may become single, and only transmit the infecting or syphilitic ulcer; but in its perfect condition it is liable to propagate the mixed ulcer, or, from unknown causes, may transmit either form. "When connection takes place be- tween two persons with the different forms of ulcer, both may become affected with the mixed sore, or only one of them. The mixed ulcer is more often caused by inoculation of matter from a venereal ulcer or a syphilitic sore than the reverse. It is reinoculable, and its inoculation gives rise to a venereal sore. The adenitis which attends a mixed ulcer may be either indolent or suppurative and ulcerating. On syphilis in animals.—In the 'Gazette Medicale de Paris,' 1867, p. 95, will be found some conclusions on the transmission of syphilis to the lower animals, which M. Auzias Turenne has formed from a series of experiments. They are as follows : (1) Certain animals, especially monkeys and cats, are susceptible of contracting various syphilitic symptoms, both primary and secondary. (2) The mucous membranes of animals do not seem very favorable to the development of most of these symptoms. (3) The true and the false chancre are nevertheless developed on such membranes. (4) A large indolent tubercle was observed on the lower lip of a female cat, which was reproduced thrice in exactly the same place, and ulcerated each time. At the time of each of these reproductions the cat was pregnant, and afterwards produced young ones, which only lived a few days. (5) The primary symptoms in cats and monkeys are true and false chancres. (6) He has not determined whether animals are susceptible of syphi- litic Menorrhagia. (7) Roseola has been noticed in the monkey and the cat. (8) The hair is an obstacle to the recognition of this symptom, which most likely exists more frequently than it is verified. (9) Disseminated crusts of acne constitute a common and obstinate symptom in animals. (10) In the monkey, cat, and rabbit, these offer the same characters as in man, with the difference that they are general over the whole body in animals, while in man they are confined to the parts covered with hair. (11) Alopecia is a lesion or a symptom of syphilis almost indubitable in the monkey and cat.