21 NERVOUS SYSTEM. vidian and a branch of the superior maxillary, whilst a few come from the naso-palatine nerve. The ganglionic nerves emerging from the ganglion are divisible into three groups, of which the first is distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose, the second to the internal maxillary artery and its branches, whilst the third pass to the fibro-muscular tissue of the orbit, though there is no evidence that they influence the movements of this tissue. The nervus petrosus superficialis major contains no filaments arisiug from the ganglion. The vidian nerve supplies the velum palati, the spheno-palatine ganglion and nasal fossa), but does not send branches into the anterior palatine nerve. M. Prevost agrees with Bernard in reference to the function of the gland, and finds that no sensory nerves proceed from it, and that its ablation causes no change in the nutrition of the nasal mucous membrane nor in the sense of smell. Electrical ex- citation of the ganglion causes elevation of temperature in, and abundant discharge of serosity from, the nostril of the same side. M. Prevost and M. Jolvet have demonstrated the important part played by the fibro- muscular tissue of the orbit in dogs in the production of exophthalmos when the superior extremity of the great sympathetic trunk is irritated, but he has not been able to convince himself that it is due to the sympa- thetic fibres. Turner * gives the particulars of a careful dissection, showing that the buccinator nerve is a sensory nerve, since in one case it ran a separate course and arose from the superior maxillary division of the fifth. Frantzel f corroborates the statements of' Beale and Arnold as regards the presence of spiral fibres entering the ganglionic nerve-cells of the sympathetic nerve, but he has not been able to assure himself that the spiral fibres are nervous in their nature,since he could not trace them into double-contoured fibres. The network of fine fibres described by Arnold as extended over the surface of the ganglion-cells he considers to be due to the presence of epithelial cells, with large nuclei lining the connective- tis>ue-capsule in which the ganglion-cells lie. In another paper J he ob.-erves that there are certain points of difference between the sympa- thetic ganglion-cells and those situated in the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The latter are unipolar and pear-shaped, and give origin to a double-contoured nerve; the former have at least two processes, which are very fine, and out of the nucleolus delicate rigid threads extend into the cell substance. E. Bischoff'ยง was unable to trace any connection between the nervus petrosus superficialis minor and the geniculate swellings of the portio dura in 36 carefully made dissections, though the two nerves lie in very close proximity to one another. He describes a minute gangliform enlarge- ment on the bight of the loop formed by the former nerve. M. Salko\vfrki,|| after performing numerous experiments upon rabbits, states, as the results of his inquiries, that the vaso-motor nerves of the ear, and the nerves that are subservient to the dilatation of the pupil, take origin in rabbits above the level of the atlas, aud therefore, in all proba- * Humphry and Turner's 'Journal of Anatomy,' 1867, i, p. 84. t ' Virchow's Archiv,' 1867, xxxviii, p. 549. X ' Schultze's Archiv f. Mikroscop. Anat.',' iv, p. 125. ยง ' Zeits.f. rat. Med.,' xxix, p. 161. || Ibid., p. 167.