186 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. this sign of mitral obstructive disease. Dr. Peacock, who formerly opposed the notion of its existence, holds that the bruit might exist either by itself or conjoined with a mitral regurgitant murmur. In the latter case he thinks it might be difficult to make out the existence of the obstruction except by the fact that more work is thrown on the right ventricle, whilst the left, being imperfectly filled, renders the pulse small and quick, but regular. As the disease comes on more gradually than regurgitation, the pulmonary capillaries have time to distend, hence the dyspnoea is less. There is less general congestion, less dropsy, and the face is paler. The prognosis is better than in mitral regurgitation. Chalybeates and other tonics should be given to strengthen the action of the weak auricle, whereas in mitral regurgitation, the urgency being greater, diuretics and cathartics have generally to be employed. Dr. Gairdner also thinks that the presystolic bruit is of much better omen than a systolic mitral bruit, chiefly, he thinks, because the filling of the ventricle is a slow process and may extend over the whole period of the pause. Sometimes, indeed, the whole of this is occupied with a bruit, and yet the patient may appear not much worse. The ventricle is therefore generally pretty well filled, and rarely becomes atrophied. Dr. Gairdner is even inclined to believe that obstruction of the mitral is an advantage when there is also regurgitation, such cases proving less rapidly fatal than where there is regurgitation alone. In such cases as those above alluded to Dr. Clifford Allbutt strongly recommends the Primus Yirginiana (lecture ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' i, 1867, p. 141 et seq.). It is also useful in other forms of heart affection, especially when there is much irritability of the organ. Dr. Simpson, of Manchester, gives an account (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 16, 1868) of some cases of presystolic bruit. The first occurred in a woman who had much cardiac distress. She presented a harsh systolic apical bruit. Another case was more doubtful, as the heart's action was more tumultuous. A third occurred in a rheumatic subject. She presented a double murmur, one clearly preceding the first sound. In each instance the diagnosis was verified by a post-mortem examination. The same gentleman, in another contribution to the same journal (Aug. 15, 1868), describes a case of aortic regurgitation from mechanical injury to the valves. The patient, a man,set. 40, was, four years before, helping to carry a piano downstairs when he felt something give way in his chest and immediately heard a noise proceeding from his chest, which he likened to that of a young frog. It was audible to others as well as himself for about nine months, during which time it gradually became weaker ; he felt no pain or faintness at the time, nor had he any incon- venience for two years till he began to be troubled with tightness of the chest and palpitations. "When admitted he was dropsical, the pulse was typically regurgitant and was visible in the dorsal arteries of the lower extremity ; the first sound was weak, but was not complicated with any bruit; the second was superseded by a remarkably loud bruit, audible from the head to the lumbar region. In a few days his lungs were filled with blood and the expectoration became hannorrhagic, and a good deal of fluid was effused into the various cavities. He died sud- denly. A good deal of fluid was found in the pleura, peritoneum, and