REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. U8 a certain distance, which must be measured, and then the central screw (which till now has bceu loose, and not pressing on the spring) is turned till the opposition of the weight in the scale is exactly overcome, as shown by the free end of the spring being depressed exactly to the same distance as it had been raised. The central screw is then fixed at this point. If, now, the instrument be simply strapped to the arm, and the free end of the spring made to bear on the artery, a maximum spring pressure of 450 grammes is exerted. For the great majority of pulses this is much too strong, and must be considerably reduced before we get the largest possible tracing. This is now accomplished by a screw apparatus at the wrist-end of the sphygmograph. By turning this screw we push the sphygmograph away till its spring ceases to touch the artery, and in order to make it touch again the small screw must be turned, which extends the free end of the spring. The degree to which the spring has been extended, by the time we have obtained (after repeated trials) the maximum pulse-tracing, is estimated by compara- tive measurements (in tenths of an inch) of the distance between the upper surface of the spring and the horizontal " piece inter- mediare," before and after the modification. If, e.g., when the spring was exerting a pressure of 300 grammes this distance was j%- inch, and in order to get the maximum pulse-curve it has been necessary to load the free end of the spring till the distance has increased to t6q inch, the spring pressure has been reduced to 150 grammes, and so on. Precisely the same subject had independently occupied the attention of Prof. Behier, of Paris, who is well known for his laborious and valuable clinical researches. M. Behier early perceived the necessity of making the pressure of the tactile spring an exactly measurable quantity, if reliable observations with the sphygmograph were to be carried out. Instead, however, of hitting upon Sanderson's plan, he devised the following apparatus. For the central screw of Marey's original instrument he substituted one which turns with a cruciform handle, moving a dial-plate marked in degrees. Instead of the hinged wings by which Marey's original sphygmograph was fitted to the arm he substituted solid fixed wings. The instrument being solidly fixed to the arm, the tactile spring does not touch the artery, but the central handle is turned till the spring just rests on the vessel, so that the lever is raised by its pulsations. During this adjustment the dial-plate has moved from zero up to a certain number; and now, to increase the pressure up to that point at which we get the largest tracing, the central screw is turned so as to depress the spring. The number of grammes finally marked on the dial, minus the number to which the dial had been turned before the spring could bear on the artery, indi- cates the actual pressure employed. By either of these plans, Sanderson's or Behier's, we obtain advantages which are immediately appreciable by the practical sphygmographer. "\Ve possess a readily applicable and mechanically accurate gauge of that most difficult thing to estimate by touch—the resisting 2^oiccr of the pulse. The information which is thus afforded us as to the real power of the heart is greatly more accurate than we can obtain by either