EXTIRPATION OP THE PAIIOTID GLAND. 219 removed with the tumour. . . . Posterior to the parotid in can- cerous tumours the occipital and posterior auricular artery and the auricularis magnus nerve usually require division—the latter may sometimes be spared. Having now got the tumour free on all sides, the operator seeks for the external carotid artery. In cancer I always advise to remove the gland as completely as possible. Hence it is necessary to divide the external carotid and the temporo-maxillary vein. These also are to be cut between two ligatures ; the parotid is then to be freed and lifted from its bed with the finger, in doing which some force is occasionally necessary, but too much force should not be used, otherwise the joint or the carotid, if it has not yet been divided, may be torn into, in consequence of the closeness of the cellular connections. Before the parotid can be completely severed from the styloid process and the pharyngeal muscles, the internal maxillary and ascending pharyngeal arteries have to be divided. They will bleed even if the external carotid is secured, and therefore must be ligatured. The remains of the gland are then to be dissected with knife and scissors clean off the fascia covering the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein. It is occasionally necessary to follow the tumour to the inside of the ramus of the jaw, as it spreads to the submaxillary gland, and in some unfavorable cases the latter is also affected. Here, also, the extraction of the gland with the finger is serviceable, and in such cases the facial and lingual arteries must also be tied. Prom 12 to 16 ligatures are generally necessary, but the free use of the ligature spares blood and enables the operator to have a good view of the parts." Three cases are given; in the first,1 the whole parotid having been ex- tirpated, great deformity resulted from the drawing of the features. This was temporarily relieved by division of muscles on the other side. It is noticed that "trophic" inflammation of the eye followed on the division of the nerve, as it does on that of the trifacial, attributed to the dropping of the lower lid. The operation was performed in Feb- ruary. In October there was the commencement of return of the disease, when the account breaks off. In the second case the tumour was very extensive, and in dissecting it out the pneumogastric nerve was exposed, but not injured. The joint was opened to a slight extent, the ninth nerve exposed, and the whole of the posterior edge of the jaw. The operation lasted one hour and a half. The patient was extremely weak and emaciated before the operation. He recovered, however, and derived much relief from it; but some swelling was noticed during the healing of the wound in the opposite parotid, and he died (not under Prof. Weber's observation) four months after the operation. In the third case the tumour had been brought to ulceration by the repeated application of caustic before the patient was seen. In this case the tumour was of great size, involving the submaxillary gland and some of the lymphatic glands of the neck. The submaxillary gland was completely extirpated, the muscles arising from the styloid process removed in part, the transverse process of the atlas was com- pletely exposed in the wound, the facial nerve divided, and the hypo- glossal exposed, but the vagus was not seen. Twelve arteries and the