REPORT OX PHYSIOLOGY. || ' Brown-S^quard's Archives de Physiologie,' i, 186S, p. 7. Donders * has also been engaged in investigating the action of the vagus on the heart. He finds that tetanization of the peripheric end of one vagus prolongs the period of the cardiac revolutions, and especially of the diastole. With weak currents the effects increase regularly with the duration of their application. With currents of moderate strength the effects rise gradually to a maximum, at which for a certain length of time they remain. After section of both vagi, by which the indirect influence of the respiratory movements is removed, the inhibitory influence is still perceptible. The period of latent influence of the pneumogastrics on the heart is about one third of a second. Sustschinsky,f from a series of investigations on the physiology of the peripheric extremities of the vagus in the heart, arrives at the following conclusions:—(i) That their excitability is not changed by removal of the sympathetic nerves alone. (2) It is exalted by the removal of all excito-motor nerves, whose influence is generally admitted. (3) It is increased to its maximum by increase of the intra-cardial pressure, although this is not apparent, because the excitability of the antagonists is also increased to the maximum. (4) On diminution of the intra-cardial pressure the excitability is at first increased, but soon diminishes. (5) On diminution of the supply of arterial blood to the walls of the heart it is increased. (6) On producing venous congestion it at first increases slowly and then quickly. (7) The inhibitory mechanism of the vagus has a certain independency. (8) The vagus is not only an inhibitory nerve, but also a regulator of the heart's action. Goltz J notices that if a frog be struck l'epeatedly on the belly the heart stops, but if coincidently with the blows the skin of the extremities be sharply pinched, or be otherwise irritated, no stoppage occurs, though when the pain has ceased stoppage again occurs on beating the belly of the animal. He suggests, as an explanation, that violent irritation of the sensory nerves induces a condition analogous to paralysis of the medulla, rendering it incapable of transmitting more feeble reflectorial impulses. In another paper§ he shows that frogs from which the cerebrum has been removed still possess a certain degree of intelligence, as shown b}r their avoiding obstacles when stimulated to leap by pricking the skin of the legs, and by the retention of a certain power of preserving their equipoise when the board on which they are placed is slowly tilted. Essentially, however, such mutilated animals are reduced to the condition of reflex machines, being incapable of procuring their own food, and never sponta- neously moving. Prevost || has made careful inquiry into the structure and functions of the spheno-palatine ganglion in cats and rodents. He finds that it receives afferent and gives off efferent branches; the greater part of the former merely traverse the ganglion, but some are connected with nerve- cells ; but many fibres contained in the efferent nerves originate from ganglionic cells in the ganglion. These last have not been demonstrated to exist in man. In the dog the afferent branches chiefly enter from the * 1 Pfluger's Archiv fiir Physiologie,' i, 1868, p. 331. + ' Untersuch. aus dem Pliysiolog. Laborat. in Wuizburg/ Leipzig, 1868. % ' Centralblatt,' 1868, p. 593, and p. 690. § Ibid., p. 690.