QOBNBAj IRIS, PUPIL, ETC. 319 describes a case of complete congenital occlusion of both lachrymal puueta on the right side, and of the lower punctum on the left. Open- ings were made with a cataract needle, and then dilated, and a complete cure was the result. The subject of conical cornea has received much attention from von Graefe, who has delivered a lecture before the Medical Society of Berlin,* in which he enters at great length into the pathology of the aifection, and shows conclusively that this peculiar hyperboloid curva- ture (which is not really conical) is due to atrophy of the central portion of the membrane. He describes an ingenious manner of de- tecting the early stages of the affection. It follows from the change of curvature that tho image reflected from the central portion of the cornea will be smaller than the images reflected from the lateral portions. If, therefore, a horizontal row of equal lights be placed before the eye, the smaller images of the central part of the row will contrast with the larger images of the lateral parts. Such a row of lights may be conveniently furnished by a series of equal and equidistant circular perforations in a plate of blackened metal, behind which is placed a slip of ground glass, and the whole illuminated by a lamp or gas-flame. Even in very early stages of the disease the difference in the sizes of the reflected images will be distinctly appreciable by the naked eye. The author then passes in review the various proposals that have been made for the treatment of the disease, and describes his own most recent method, which is as follows :—A portion of corneal tissue at the apex of the cone is shaved off with a fine cataract knife, without opening the anterior chamber, and the denuded surface is touched, at first very lightly, and only on alternate days, but afterwards, if necessary, more freely and more frequently, with diluted nitrate of silver. If no reaction should follow, a second bit of the cornea may be shaved oft", and the caustic reapplied. "When a central ulcer with a halo of infil- tration is fairly established, the base of the ulcer is cautiously perfo- rated with a blunt probe, and the perforation is two or three times re- peated. The eye is then bound up, and the ulcer allowed to heal. The cicatrization will flatten the abnormal curvature; and, if the resulting leucoma be large, it may still be necessary to make an arti- ficial pupil. The results in v. Graefe's hands have been excellent; and Meyer f also records a very successful case. BaderJ mentions a case of successful abscission of the apex of the cone, the wound having been united by three sutures of fine silver wire. Dr. Ponti Floriano § pub- lishes a case of double conical cornea, said to have been cured entirely by double irido-enkleisis. It is even stated that the natural curvature returned after the operations, and that the patient, who could only read, before treatment, No. 16 of Jager with the right eye and No. 7 with the left, was restored to perfect vision. It is also said that anion"- the remedies tried prior to operation was tho " infusion of tobacco, so much extolled by the English." Prof. Zehendcr || relates a case of obstinate corneal fistula, which healed under the repeated application * ' Annales d'Oculistique,' 1868. f 'Gaz. des Hdpitaux,' 1868. X Op. cit., p. 192. § ' Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano,' 1868. II 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1868.