446 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. this metal.* He finds that the sulphide is not poisonous, for it may he given with impunity to animals along with their food for a week ; and the insolubility of the salt in water, oil, dilute acids and alkalies,' ren- ders its use as a pigment devoid of danger. Those compounds of cadmium which at the temperature of the body are soluble in water or in dilute acids, or are convertible into soluble salts, are all poisonous. The poisonous salts always produce considerable local irritation ; w hen taken into the stomach in small doses they cause vomiting, and if in large doses, repeated evacuations upwards and downwards, also simple catarrhal and even ulcerative gastro-enteritis. The internal use of chloride of cadmium has produced perforation of the intestinal canal. The remote effects of the poisonous cadmium salts are those observed hy Soret, viz. vertigo, vomiting and purging, cramps, slowness of the circulation and respiration, loss of strength, and unconsciousness. If such a fatal dose be injected subcutaneously, or into the blood-vessels, as will not cause death immediately, inflammation, and frequently haemorrhage, erosion, and ulceration of the stomach and intestines, appear. For hounds, half a grain was found to be a fatal dose of the soluble salts when injected into the blood-vessels, whilst to destroy dogs weighing three or four pounds five to ten grains was required when the poison was introduced into the stomach; but as a portion of the salt was always rejected by vomiting, the fatal dose still remains unde- termined. Alkaline carbonates with white of egg were found to be the best antidotes, and it was noticed that the early employment of dilute solutions of soda or soda-water arrested the poisonous action com- pletely. The continued administration of small doses of the salts of cadmium causes disturbances of the digestive organs, emaciation, and death. On inspection of the body, gastro-enteritis, sub-pleural ecchy- moses, partial congestions of the lungs, often fatty degeneration of the liver and of the muscular tissue of the heart, and diffuse inflammation of the kidneys, were found. The elimination of cadmium from the body commences very soon after ingestion, and occurs, with interruptions, chiefly through the kidneys. In order to detect cadmium in the fluids, Marmef recommends, if the metal be present in not too sparing quan- tity, that a deposit be obtained by Iteinsch's process. This bluish- grey deposit is to be dissolved in concentrated nitric acid, the solution precipitated with sulphuretted hydrogen, the precipitate freed from copper by means of cyanide of potassium, when the residue of sulphide of cadmium may be recognised by its colour and by its comportment with dilute acids and alkalies. In blood, urine, &c, where the metal is pre- sent in very minute quantities, it is best separated by electrolysis, a battery of four of Groves's cells being employed. From the stomach and its contents cadmium may be separated by dialysis. Arsenic—Dr. Kirchgasser, of Coblenz, has investigated poisoning by green wall pigments, and publishes 21 cases. + He inclines to the belief that the deleterious effects of the use of green wall pigments are due to the mechauical suspension of arsenical dust in the air of apart* * 'Zeitschr. f. rat. Med.,' xxix, 1867. f 'Zeitschr. f. Analyt. Chem.,' 1867, p. 298. X ' Vierteljahrschr. f. gericht. u. offeut. Med.,' ix, p. 96.