REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 456 show that the blood is destitute of free oxygen, that both the venous and arterial fluid are as dark as in carbonic acid poisoning or after strangulation, and that blood taken from either the right or left side of the heart exhibits in the spectroscope only the bands of blood destitute of free oxygen. On shaking the fluid with air the bright red arterial colour returns, and also the bands of blood containing free oxygen. As no permanent pathological change is produced by curarina, complete recovery from its effects may occur under artificial respiration. L. Hermann* thinks that the immunity from the effects of curare, when it is introduced into the stomach, results, not as is generally sup- posed from non-absorption of the poison by the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, but from the fact that curare is so quickly re- moved by the kidneys that no sufficient quantity can accumulate in the blood to produce deleterious effects. Having tied the renal vessels of a rabbit, he introduced curare into the stomach, and found that death ensued with as much certainty, though not with the same rapidity, as when the poison was placed beneath the skin. Hermann also accounts for the inocuity of the venom of serpents, and of potassium salts, when introduced into the stomach, though both these are poisonous when in- jected into the blood, in a similar manner. He supposes that the removal of curare from the system, in birds, must take place slowly, since their urine is semi-fluid ; and in accordance with this supposition is the fact that small doses of the poison, when swallowed, are fatal to these ani- mals. As a practical conclusion, Hermann points out the importance of paying attention to the state of the excretory organs when active poisons are being administered therapeutically. MM. Voisin and Louivillef give the following reactions for cura- rina :—The alkaloid gives a deep blue coloration with concentrated sulphuric acid, and with nitric acid a purple colour. With sulphuric acid and bichromate of potash a reaction is produced like that given by the same reagents with strychnia. Sulphate of manganese strikes a violet colour with curarina. Calabar bean.—The action of this very active poison has been in- vestigated in this country by Dr. Thomas Eraser, J and on the Continent by Bezold and Goetz,§ and the investigations of these latter experi- menters have been continued, at Bezold's request, by Arnstein and Sustschin8ky.|| The main result of Bezold and Goetz's observations is to prove that Calabar bean causes death from true asphyxia, brought about by paraly- sis of the respiratory centre in the medulla oblongata, and that the poison is to the centres of involuntary motion (that of respiration ex- cepted) what strychnia is to the centres of voluntary motion. Their experiments were made, not only with extract of the bean, but also with solutions of sulphate of physostigmine prepared from the extract. In consequence of its action on unstriped muscle, Calabar beau causes * * Reichert und Du Bois Reymond's Archiv,' 1867, p. 64. f ' Journ. de l'Anat.,' 1867, p. 112. % ' Trans. Roy. Soc. of Edinb.,' xxiv.' § ' Centralbl. f. die Med. Wissensch.,' 1867, p. 241. || Ibid., p. 625.