JELEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 106 Chronic Bronchitis in Children. A paper in the ' Journ. f. Kinderkr.' discusses this subject. The following concluding remarks are worthy of notice : (1) In chronic and tedious cough of children, it must not be hastily assumed that tuberculosis is present, even as is very often the ease in chronic bronchitis. The aspect is pale and sickly, the flesh is flabby, the lymphatic glands are swollen, and there are occasionally high temperatures. (2) The diagnosis must be very carefully made, and the source of the cough as well as its duration and complications must be ascer- tained. .(3) The prognosis will be so far the more favorable as long as the friends of the patients will encourage the children, and that they are willing to spare no cost or pains to restore health. (4) In the treatment it is not good to keep constantly the idea of scrofulous or tubercular disease present to the mind as the cause of the continued cough, or to fly to the use of cod-liver oil or malt baths. "We must investigate the causes from which the bronchitis has arisen, and is chiefly maintained. The most promising treatment is the use of mineral waters, and especially in the use of cool baths, sea baths, and sea air. Bronchial Concretions, Sfc. M. Bourdillat ('Gaz. He'd, de Paris,' 1868, p. 94) narrates the case of a child, set. 7, who had taken a French Dean into the trachea. Four days after, it not having been removed, pleuro-pneumonia came on, and as suffocation was impending tracheotomy was performed. Much bleeding followed, which was arrested by the introduction of a canula. After a time this was removed again, the wound well opened, when the bean was driven out, surrounded by a mass of coagulated blood. The boy did well. The other cases he mentions were—(1) One where a foreign body in the trachea was taken for croup. (2) A French beau in the trachea; tracheotomy, the bean removed ; pneumonia three days after; death. (3) An ear of wild oat was introduced into the air- passages and could not be removed. It apparently caused suppuration, being itself disintegrated after a time and finally expelled along with pus. The cavity healed and the man got well. (4) A bone of a fowl was drawn into the air-passages ; it was expelled after six months, and the child got well. (5) A cherry-stone got into the lung, gave rise to symptoms resembling phthisis ; was spontaneously expelled, and the patient got well. (6) A small stone reached the bronchi, was encysted, and gave rise to symptoms of phthisis; the patient recovered. MM. Henocque and L. Leroy give some interesting details in the ' Gaz. Hebd.,' Jan. 3, 1868, as to bronchial concretions. In this case the patient, a man set. 21, had been ill for a year, had coughed a good deal, and grown thin. Eight months previously, whilst coughing, a quantity of black blood came from his mouth, and for eight days after his expectora- tion was bloody. Ten days before entering the hospital he experienced a violent rigor and pain in the region of the chest, and he had bloody