PHTHISIS. 121 them. Among the. poor it follows measles and hooping-cough, with most fatal results. The chief reason of this fatality is the mechanical imperfection of the infantile chest and consequent liability to local collapse of lung. In fatal cases in children we find— (1) Intense catarrhal inflammation of the bronchial tubes down to the minutest branches, sometimes general, sometimes confined to the lower lobes; the bronchial mucous membrane being thickened, red, and swollen. (2) Collapse of the posterior part of the lower lobes, with emphy- sema of the anterior margin of the lung. (3) Dissection of the collapsed parts show the minutest broncheoles distended with mucous secretion resembling pus. When inflated those lobules which are merely collapsed readily expand, but there are always some in the midst of the expansible ones which will not expand. These are solid masses of lobular pneumonia. Structurally such patches are bits of lung-tissue, all but the air-cells of which are choked with innumerable nucleated cells. These cells are not tubercle-cor- puscles in any intelligible sense, or exudation-corpuscles, nor, indeed, cells of any special or newly produced kind, but simply cells of the same kind as those which are found in the air-cells of the healthy organ, collected together in extraordinary numbers, but in every other respect ordinary and common. Their accumulation is the ultimate fact which distinguishes mucous or catarrhal inflammation from fibrous. Some authorities will say that a mere increased number of cells is no true ground of a distinction from fibrogenous pneumonia, but in truth the cellular constitution of the deposit is just what makes it dangerous. At first these are masses of lung-protoplasm, but they soon die. They tend towards necrosis by becoming granular; their fatty elements .separating from their albuminous. No doubt in many instances, as convalescence is established, the consolidations left by catarrhal pneu- monia in childhood disappear, and the process of fatty degene- ration itself may lead to the expulsion of the diseased products by expectoration. But, as a rule, such products remain and become more slowly the subject of fatty degeneration, namely, of caseation, the essence of which is the loss of water by absorption, so that the fatty material becomes condensed and opaque white or yellowish. As regards the tendency to inheritance of caseous phthisis, Sanderson favours the view that phthisis itself is not inherited, but rather that such structural tendencies are inherited by the child from the parent that the occurrence of such an accident as catarrhal pneumonia is more likely to be followed by the hasty and imperfect cell formation, so easily changed into cheesy tubercle, than in other persons. In Germany the most important work on the subject of varieties of phthisis within our period is the pamphlet of Felix von Niemeycr ('Klin. Vortnige ub. die Lungenschwiudsucht,' Berlin, 1867). Nie- meyer separates caseous phthisis entirely from the miliary form, and ascribes it to chronic catarrhal pneumonia. Not only the subject of caseous phthisis, but that also of miliary tubercle, has made great progress. Pathological anatomy has now shown that many structures, superficially like miliary tubercle, are really nothing but the cut ends of