67 TREATMENT OF CHOLERA AT POSEN. simple isomeric modifications. Does this change, which establishes the virulence, affect all the elements of vaccine, or only some ? M. Chauveau has experimented with one after another of the elements of vaccine separately. He comes to the conclusion that if vaccine be deprived of its solid elements, viz. the leucocytes and the elementary granular bodies, it fails to produce an inoculation, whereas perfect vaccine always succeeds. It may be supposed, therefore, that the activity of vaccine exists somewhere in its solid bodies, and M. Chauveau thinks that this is a fact of great importance, both with regard to the theory of virulence and also as to the physiology of the elements of vaccine. Cholera. Dr. H. Giiterbock investigates the question of temperature in cholera. The following are the conclusions in which he sums up : 1. In the algide stage of cholera there is a striking cooling of the head and of the extremities in comparison with that which we see in other diseases. 2. In the algide state of cholera the temperature of the cavities of the body is the highest in the whole body, and can only be really esti- mated by comparison with the other parts. 3. In the cold stage, in the majority of cases, whether the result be fatal or not, the internal temperature of the body is high, very seldom normal, but rarest of all diminished. As yet there is no explanation of these facts, either in the symptoms during life or during the changes found after death. 4. In the cold stage the temperature is ordinarily increased at the approach of death, but does not seem to increase after death. There are, however, cases in which there is an increase of temperature during the death-agony, for no reason that can be perceived. 5. With the commencement of simple reaction there is an increase of temperature. Much more commonly there is a slight fall as regards the internal parts of the body, while the external parts get warmer. . 6. In case of protracted reaction, especially asphyxia, the bodily temperature tends to sink below the normal line. 7. The inflammatory sequelae usually, if not always, produce a distinct elevation of the bodily temperature. 8. During full convalescence frequently there is a normally high tem- perature without any serious consequences resulting therefrom (' Vir- chow's Archiv,' xxxviii, 1867). Treatment of Cholera at Posen. Among the curiosities which have turned up in the way of treatment proposed for cholera, one may mention the following by Dr. Viseur. He gives every five minutes from 5 to 20 drops of a concentrated alcoholic solution of camphor. If this is vomited, he immediately gives another dose until tolerance is established. After tho first dose of camphor has been given he administers enemas lukewarm and with more or less