MILITARY SURGERY. 327 The new bullets and tlie wounds produced hj tliem. By Alexander Bruce, Esq. ('Medical Times and Gazette,' Oct. 26, 1867).—"It is stated by the older authors on gunshot injuries that the aper- ture of exit is, as a rule, larger than that of entry. This statement, although doubtless true of the old round ball, is only partially so of the conical rifle bullet. It was, indeed, frequently noticed during the late wars that but little difference existed between the apertures, that of entry being not unfrequently the larger of the two. Sometimes, also, when the bullet had remained lodged in the body, a very remarkable extent of laceration of the soft parts was found around its track, and it was always much distorted in form. " The penetrating power of a leaden bullet depends on several cir- cumstances, which relate to its momentum, the comparative softness of its metal, and to the resistance offered by the body against which it impinges. If a bullet driven at a high velocity strike after a short flight (say 100 yards) an object capable of presenting considerable re- sistance, such as a bank of clay or sand, it will be found to have pene- trated but a short distance, and to have become greatly altered in form, producing a correspondingly large and ragged hole in the substance in which it is imbedded, the reason being that the momentum of the bullet expended itself upon its own substance before penetration could take place. If, however, the same object be struck by the bullet whilst travelling with a lower velocity, penetration to a very considerable depth may occur, and the ball may be extracted comparatively uninjured, the aperture of entry being small. These facts will explain many of the apparent anomalies presented by gunshot wounds. •• As a general rule, the conical bullets hitherto in use in the armies of Europe and America have, when fired at a moderate range, a very con- siderable penetrating power, and produce, for the most part, cleanly cut apertures of entry and exit, even when they have met with considerable resistance in their course. " Some years ago the principle of the exploding shell was combined with that of the rifle bullet, and I am informed that these are now largely used in India, especially in elephant- and tiger-hunting. A small metal capsule is introduced into the centre of the bullet, and filled with a detonating powder composed of chlorate of potash and sulphide of antimony. " The effects upon an animal are described as terrific. If the bullet lodge in one of the cavities of the body, it explodes, and fragments of metal tear their way through the viscera, whilst the disorganization is increased by the sudden evolution of large quantities of gas. When a limb is struck, the muscles are lacerated and torn up from their con- nections ; the bones also are usually comminuted, whilst the skin, curiously enough, is rarely ruptured. Such is the terrible missile, which, it is said, Herr von Dreyse has recently introduced into the Pi. -ian army, having adapted it to the needle-gun. "By a very simple contrivance, however, a bullet can be made to produce almost equally destructive results without the necessity of adopting so cruel an invention, and it is on this principle that the C'hassepot in common with the Boxer and other new bullets are con-