93 GASTRALGIA. same remedy, and also caffeine injected in grain doses, as powerful remedies for gastralgia. Of local remedies the author prefers blistering to every other. _ He recommends that, whatever the apparent site of the pain, the blister should be placed as near as possible to the place of issue of the posterior branches of the affected nerve from the spinal canal. Dr. Eamskill records a most interesting case of the dreadful affection named " epileptiform neuralgia" by Trousseau, which was complicated with severe and frequently repeated general epileptiform convulsions. The patient was a married woman, aet. 30, the mother of three children, and the immediate cause of the attack seemed to be intense grief. The neuralgia was in the branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and was of extreme violence, never entirely leaving her, by night or day. A tender point was developed at the top of the head; the least touch on this brought on a violent paroxysm. After trying suc- cessively, and in vain, a full course of iodide of potassium, and then bromide of potassium in scruple doses for a fortnight, Ramskill thought of the treatment by large and increasing doses of opium recommended by Trousseau. He commenced with half a grain of morphia three times a day, and after a few days increased it to three quarters of a grain, and then to one grain, thrice daily. From the third day of this treat- ment the pain abated, and after a week the patient became able to eat solid food; the convulsive seizures became less frequent, and at the date of the report had ceased altogether for ten days. At this time she was taking one grain of morphia four times a day, and it was Dr. Eamskill's intention to push it in increasing doses, in proportion as she became accustomed to it. He confesses, however, that, like Trousseau, he believes this remedy to be a mere palliative, and that the malady would return ('British Med. Journal,' Jan. 5, 1867). Gastralgia. Dr. A. Leared ('Brit. Med. Journal,' Nov. 23 and 30, 1867) recom- mends arsenic in the treatment of this complaint. The disease is cha- racterised by great pain and feeling of faintness, probably dependent on affection of the solar plexus. The pains are paroxysmal, and occur- ring at first with long, but afterwards at shorter, intervals ; they occur when the stomach is empty. The malady attacks without warning, and in full health, but gradually produces nervous exhaustion ; all but the slightest attacks are accompanied with vomiting. "When the pain is evere there is a considerable amount of collapse; stimuli or food sometimes give relief, sometimes increase the pain. The author tried prussic acid, bismuth, and preparations of manganese, &c.; but at last used arsenic, with remarkably good results. He gave five drops of Fowler's solution in the course of the day. Arsenic must not be used where the stomach is painful after food, except only in certain cases of phthisis, with gastralgia; in pyrosis, where this does not depend on anemia; in sub-acute gastritis, in ulcer of the Btoraach, in chronic congestion of the stomach, and congestion consequent on heart disease, and in cancer of the stomach. It is important to notice before begin- ning the treatment whether the pain is increased or diminished by