DISEASKS OF UTERUS. 8S1 tumours disappeared, under, as he believed, a process of fatty degeneration similar to that by which the uterus undergoes involution after delivery. Dr. M'Clintoek ('Dub. Med. Journ.,' 1868) describes the spon- taneous elimination of uterine tumours under five heads—interstitial absorption, simple falling, calcification, decomposition, expulsion by uterine contraction. Dr. Dyce records results of forty cases of polypus ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1S67). He insists upon plugging after removal of a polypus by incision. In one case a patient nearly died from hemorrhage. 0. Larcher ('Arch. Gen.,' 1867) describes the intermittent appear- ance of intra-uterine polypi, i. e. appearing, for example, during men- struation or metrorrhagia, at times receding. Dr. Larcher describes a case of spontaneous rupture of the uterus with intra-uterine polypus. A woman was admitted into the Hotel- Dieu with pain in the abdomen. After four days profuse bleeding set in. She refused examination. Two days later meteorism and peritonitis appeared and she died. Section revealed diffuse peritonitis and adhesion of all the organs of the small pelvis. A polypus was found in the uterus, seated in the anterior wall near the isthmus. The posterior surface of the cervix was ulcerated, and at one spot torn through, com- municating with the cavity of the abdomen ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' Nov. 1867). The amputation of the cervix uteri, in malignant disease of the uterus and vagina, is discussed by Dr. B. Hicks (' Guy's Hosp. Beports,' xii). See also A. Valenta (' Memorab.,' 1867) ; and Kuchen- meister (' Oesterr. Ztsc. f. prakt. Heilk.,' 1868). Removal of the uterus and appendages in a case of procidentia uteri. —A case is related by Dr. Choppin (' Amer. Journal of Med. Sc.,' 1867). It was removed by Chassaignac's ecraseur. Recovery. Dr. Hildebrandt discusses ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867) the signifi- cance of the levator ani muscle in the use of pessaries. Dr. Hildebrandt relates two cases in which he was satisfied that he passed the uterine sound several inches along the Fallopian tube. In one case the patient had worn an intra-uterine pessary, and imme- diately after removing this, passing the sound, he found its point went freely along the tube, and was felt through the abdominal walls. The end of the pessary he conjectured had distended the uterine orifice of the tube, and thus facilitated the entry of the sound, for after discon- tinuing the use of the pessary the entry of the sound was no longer easy. He refers to analogous cases by Veit (' Virchow's Handbuch der Speeiellen Pathologie,' 1867), and by Matthews Duncan ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' 1856). He calls attention to this patency of the tubes as explanatory of those cases in which air or fluids penetrate from the utf-rus into the abdominal cavity (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' June, f86B). Tuberculosis of the uterus is described by Hoffmann ('Bayr. Intell. El.,' 1867). The results of dissection are given. The uterus had grown to the bladder'and pelvic wall; its cavity was filled with yellow cheesy matter, and the tubercular mass penetrated some lines into the muscular substance.