KEPOUT ON MIDWIFETtY, ETC. 3S2 Dr. Graily Hewitt describes ('Brit. Med. Jo-urn.,' 1868) under the title "Uterine Lameness," various forms of flexion of the uterus. See also on "Flexions," Meadows ('Obst. Trans.,' 1). Granular inflammation of the uterine cervical canal is discussed by Fleetwood Churchill ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868). Chronic inversion of the uterus is illustrated by J. Hakes (' Liverpool Reports,' 1868). He relates a case in which reduction was effected by continued elastic pressure. A. Baker ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) relates a case in which the uterus was removed by the wire ecraseur; bleeding vessels were touched by actual cautery. Recovery. Scanzoni relates ('Scan- zoni's Beitrage,' 1868) a case caused by a polypus. The uterus was removed by ecraseur; there was an opening into the peritoneum ; peri- tonitis followed, and death. The same memoir discusses at length the chief points of interest in recent and chronic inversion. Ovariotomy. The contributions are very numerous. The following attest the progress of the operation abroad : Krassovsky (St. Petersburg).—Before he resorted to it he treated 32 multilocular cysts by tapping, iodine injections, drainage, &c.; 28 died; 4 survived uncured. In Germany 55 ovariotomies were performed in 1867, with 26 re- coveries, 29 deaths. In France and Belgium 34 extirpations are recorded, with an equal number of deaths and recoveries. In Italy two cases are described; one died, the other was not completed. Amongst unusual events attending ovariotomy are the following: Keith tells of an intestinal fistula ensuing on opening a large pelvic abscess, after double ovariotomy. Lyons (' Glasgow Med. Journ.,' 1867) relates a similar case. Spencer Wells lost a case suddenly on the nineteenth day, under symptoms of obstruction of bowel. The pedicle of the tumour had grown to the ilium, close to the caecum, and thus caused the closure of the bowel. Berne (' Gaz. Med. de Lyon') transfixed the stump with a needle ; on the fifth day the wound burst at this spot, and the patient died of haemorrhage. Koeberle lost a case on the fifth day, with symptoms of intestinal obstruction. A ligature applied to a vessel, and left behind, had con- tracted adhesion with a loop of intestine. In another, Koeberle, dia- gnosing a fluid collection after operation, opened the abdomen above the crista ilii, and let out J40 grammes of bloody serum; a lumbar abscess was afterwards emptied. The patient recovered. Lelong relates (' Bull, de la Soc. Anat.,' 1867) a case of ovarian cyst, in which puncture was followed by haemorrhage into the cavity of the cyst; pneumonia, and death. The tumour was generally adherent; the walls were extremely vascular; the blood did not issue from the wounding of any large vessel. H. Cooper Hose describes (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1868) a case of cystic disease of the kidney, simulating ovarian disease. The diagnosis of renal from ovarian cysts is carefully discussed (' Dubl. Quar. Journ. of Med. Sc.,' 1867) by Spencer Wells.