REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. BY EEANCIS E. ANSTIE, M.D., E.E.C.P. A. DISEASES OE THE GEITEBAL SYSTEM. Tuberculosis.—Inoculability of Tubercle. Ik the 'Biennial Eetrospect' for 1865-6 we noticed the early experi- ments of M. Yilleinin on inoculation of tubercle. These experiments have been the starting-point of a number of important researches, both by their author (' Etudes sur la Tuberculose,' Paris, 1868) and by others. M. Simon communicated to the Pathological Society some experi- ments made for the purpose of testing Villemin's results. He inoculated ten rabbits with softening yellow tubercle from the longs of a human patient. Eive months later he killed nine of them. Dissection showed tubercle in the lungs in five cases, and the tuber- culous matter here found was inoculated upon three other rabbits which were killed five months later. In the latter animals there were ex- tensive tuberculous consolidations of the lungs and enlargement of the mesenteric glands. In one there were similar lesions in the spleen and the liver.' It was remarkable that, although the common physical pro- perties of the product were those which in men we call tubercular, and, on the whole, resembling yellow tubercles, the small, rounded masses seen in the lungs, when magnified, showed a semi-transparent, grey circumference. Prof. Lebert ('Yirchow's Archiv,' xli, 1867) made forty-five ex- periments. In eleven experiments on guinea-pigs and rabbits he inoculated what he considered as typical tubercle taken from phthisi- cal patients in various stages of the disease, and in one or two cases from masses of chronic pneumonic deposit, and in one case from the mesenteric glands of a child who had pneumonic deposits and tubercular : granulations elsewhere. All these experiments were successful, and produced substantially 1 the same results in every case. In the second group of experiments itwo dogs had pus injected into the jugular vein. In one of these ani- imals four injections were made within three weeks; the last was lol- . lowed by diarrhoea and vomiting, and, lastly, by emaciation. The animal was killed thirty-four days after the first injection, and many ' disseminated abscesses were found in the lungs, and nodules from a ;pin's-hcad size to that of a lentil in the liver; in the other dog the 3