REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 32 urea in mammals, Meissner, in conjunction with Billiard, came to the conclusion that this also was chiefly formed at the liver. For he found 009 gramme of urea in 474 grammes of the liver of the dog, and 0 02 5 gramme in 347 grammes of the liver of the rabbit. But since no other tissue of the body, and especially not the muscles, contains urea, Meissner attributes its formation to processes occurring in that organ. Hence its absence, or great diminution, in the tissues, as noticed by Frerichs and Stadeler in acute, and by Harley in chronic, atrophy of the liver. He conceives that it proceeds from the disintegration of haemoglobin of effete red corpuscles into urea, glycogen, and biliary colouring matter. As regards the excretion of kreatin, kreatinin, and other nitrogen- ized constituents of the urine, by mammals, he finds both the former con- stantly in the urine of the dog. On the introduction of kreatin under the skin or in the intestine, it is speedily eliminated (in thirteen hours), chiefly as kreatin, but in small part as kreatinin. In opposi- tion to Munk,* he finds no conversion of the kreatin into urea. Kreatinin introduced in the same way is also chiefly eliminated with- out change, a part being probably oxidized in the blood, which is in accordance with its easy oxidizability by ozone, as shown by von Gorup- Besanez. With abundant flesh food much, with farinaceous and food free from kreatin little, kreatin was eliminated; but a fasting animal continued to eliminate kreatin, since it consumed its own tissue. In well-fed animals (dogs) allantoin was constantly found iu the urine in small quantities, as well as uric acid; but both were absent, or present only in very small quantity, in animals fed on a diet con- taining no albumen. Uric acid seems to be eliminated soon after food, allantoin at a later period, which he thinks is due to the circum- stance that at the former period uric acid is wholly converted into urea, but at a later period, when the nutritive processes are less actively performed, it forms urea and allantoin. Meissner finishes his paper by noting the effects of work on the urine of a dog (the work consisted of five hours' running). The urine was acid, sparing in quantity (alkaline on bread diet). Uric acid fails, but allantoin continues, to be excreted. Kreatin and kreatinin are at first deficient, but subsequently are more abundantly eliminated, so that their discharge appears only to be delayed. Xanthin also appeared. The reason of these substances appearing he thinks due to the oxygen being taken up by nitrogenous free substances during exercise. Many other abstracts have been excluded for want of space, but this report should not conclude without special reference to the valuable paper by Dr. A. Crum Brown and Dr. Thomas E. Fraser, " On the Connection between Chemical Constitution and Physiological Action," in the 'Transact, of the lioy. Soc. of Edinburgh" for 1868. * 'Deutsche Klinik,' 1862, p. 299.