ltUl'TUUE OF UTEltUS. 40 y swelling was felt in the anterior vaginal wall. This was not affected by emptying the bladder by catheter. The patient sat upright, her legs hanging over the edge of the bed, and strained forcibly with tbe quickly recurring strong pains. These were attended by haemorrhage. Her countenance was tranquil, breathing but little hurried, but the hands were cold, and the pulse small and i$6. She sank undelivered. The child was delivered by turniug afterwards. Autopsy.—The uterus was large, flaccid; a large extravasation of blood was found under tbe peritoneum extending upwards as far as the right kidney. An incom- plete rupture of the uterus was seen proceeding from the vagina. In the cellular tissue, between bladder and uterus, was an extravasation of blood. Hecker insists upon the occurrence of rapid small pulse as a sign of diagnostic value in incomplete as well- as in complete ruptures (' Slon. £ Geburtsk.,' April, 1868). M. Jolly discusses the same subject. He saw in the Maternite two cases of rupture of the uterus, in both of which the contractions went on even after the accident; in one case they were sufficiently energetic to expel the child. This circumstance seemed to be so rare that be searched for other cases, and collected the histories of 23 cases in which the uterus showed contractile energy after rupture. He discusses the explanations given to account for the continuance of the contractions, and successively rejects them as contradicted by clinical facts. M. Baudelocque's theory, that the fetus present in the titerus excites its contraction, is disproved by cases cited there; con- tractions occurred even after the child and placenta were expelled, and others where the contractions ceased although child remained in uterus. Another theory, urged by Ramsbotham, is that a large rent caused suspension, a small one contractions. Jolly adduces cases in contradiction of this also. Xor does the explanation lie in the seat of the rent, as Pajot sug- gested, for contraction has been absent and present in ruptures at the fundus and at the cervix. Jolly insists upon a diagnostic sign noticed by M'Clintock. This is the formation of a tumour in the iliac region, formed by a mixture of blood and gas, recognised by a sound of Crepitation and a sensation of emphysema. Another sign is the formation of a tumour of effused blood in the hypogastric region, simulating the distended bladder, and not disappearing on catheterization. These are not constant, but valuable when present. The conclusion is that, suspension of con- tractile energy being no certain or constant sign of rupture, we must study carefully all the signs, not so much in isolation as in their accu- mulation ('Archives Gen. de Med.,' 1868). ~S\r. E. Asbury contributes (' Obst. Trans.,' x) a case of rwture of the uterus; the pelvis was normal. In relation to this case Dr. Barnes expressed his opinion that, as in many other cases, tho rupture might, in this, have been due to the uterus contracting upon a dead child. Case of spontaneous rupture of the uterus. By Dr. Scharhvu.— Pelvis generally and obliquely contracted j second labour; spon- 27