HEi'OltT ON MIDWEPBEY, ETC. 4-> 0 disease might be regarded as an inflammation of the lymphatics of the brain and pia mater. The same subject receives clinical illustrations from Henoch (' Bei- triige/ 1868) under the head of hemiplegia. Bouchut discusses (' Journ. f. Kindk.,' 1868) the occurrence of thromlosis of the sinus of the dura mater in connection with chronic diseases of children, and the delirium and convulsions with which these diseases terminate. He recals to mind how many chronic diseases terminate in convulsions. As a rule, these are the forerunners of death. Many children thus die in the course of cachexias attending lung- phthisis, simple chronic or tubercular enteritis, vertebral caries, white swellings of the joints, hooping-cough complicated with broncho- pneumonia, &c. It was long believed that the delirium and convulsions appearing at the end of such chronic diseases were simply the result of the impoverishment of the blood. Most physicians think that inanition and chlorosis are the consequence of the cachectic state, and that the cachexia is developed through the protracted disease of the infant organism. This is generally true, and Bouchut recognises the truth of Marshall Hall's explanation of hydrencephaloid. But there are cases, he says, in which the convulsions in question spring from a quite different cause. He refers especially to the thrombosis in the sinus of the dura mater, by which obstruction to the circulation in the brain is caused, producing a passive congestion of the brain. The following case is an instructive illustration:—A little girl had suffered for several months from hooping-cough. Broncho-pneumonia ensued; incomplete anaesthesia attended, quickly merging in a condition resembling as- phyxia. Now convulsions, lasting four hours, set in, were repeated twice in the same day, and led to death. Autopsy revealed considerable brain-congestion, and a small quantity of serous effusion in the pia mater and under the arachnoid; besides this, old coagula were found iu the sinus of the dura mater; of these thrombi, which were hard and colourless, one was fifteen centim. long; it extended along the lateral sinus, and reached to the inlet of the jugular vein. Another thrombus, harder and paler, lay in tbe upper longitudinal sinus, had grown to the walls, and completely obliterated it. Another case in which thrombosis of the sinus occurred was that of a phthisical child, giving rise to delirium twelve days before death. The ophthalmoscope revealed a^grey papilla, surrounded as if with oedema; the boundaries were not recognisable, and these were rather surmised from the punctures around which the veins radiated. The vessels were large and pale, and the very pale choroid, like the retina, looked as if covered with a fine white sand. The cause of the delirium was sought in the sinus of the dura mater and the associated atrophy. The accuracy of this diagnosis was confirmed by autopsy. Tubercles and cavities were found in the lungs. The longitudinal and transverse sinuses of the dura mater were completely closed by blood-plugs, of which some were old, whitish, firm, and more or less grown to the walls, whilst other blood-plugs were still fresh, blackish, and soft, and had clearly formed in the last moments of life. The brain and mem- branes were sound. On examination of the eyes there was seen,