262 KEPOBT ON SUKCERY. he had constant pain in the hip and knee, and he could not admit abduction, or any extended motion of the limbs. This patient took his discharge to work on May ii; the contour of the limb being almost restored to its natural fulness, and his general health quite recovered. " Although strongly recommending this treatment for the early stages of acute articular osteitis, and also for the very advanced periods, when caries is established, or when a whole joint is converted into a foul sup- purating cavity, my experience does not warrant me in advising the practice so strongly in the intermediate periods, where the head of a bone may be the seat of a diffused suppuration, possibly communicating with the joint itself; the caustic, I fear, in this condition of parts, could not extend sufficiently to protect from the constitutional disturbance and risk of pyjemia that might follow." The following extracts refer to the excision of bones and joints: Excision and regeneration of the entire clavicle. By John "Win. Irvine.—" George W—, aet. 16, was admitted into the West Derby Union Hospital on the 18th of June, 1866, in consequence of serious disease of the right clavicle, the central portion of which was completely exposed. " On admission the patient was in a very exhausted state, having symptoms of hectic, and a constant purulent discharge from a wound which left an inch and a half of the central portion of the right clavicle perfectly denuded of periosteum, and of a glistening white appearauce. He was put upon good diet, and such tonics as were calculated to bear up his strength ; but, in spite of all efforts, he continued to lose flesh, and became more and more depressed in spirits, until July 2, when ab- scesses began to show themselves near the sternum and scapula, and I determined to resect the clavicle. " Chloroform having been administered, I made an incision over the entire length of the bone, and then, as far as possible, dissected the periosteum from its superficial surface. I then disarticulated the sternal end, and so placed a spatula as to elevate the bone, proceeding to further separate the periosteum, which, to my delight, I found prac- ticable without very great difficulty. I found it necessary to dissect with extreme care, owing to the painfully perceptible pulsation of the subclavian artery, but with perseverance I managed to remove the clavicle comparatively free from its periosteal covering. : ' On September 1, two months after operation, the entire wound had cicatrized, and the patient had gained more than a stone in weight from the date of operation. He had been able to sit up, and use his arm in playing dominoes, for ten days past. " On September 20 he expressed himself as quite able to follow his usual employment, and made an urgent request for his discharge, which was complied with. " It was evident, on examination, that very considerable regeneration of the removed bone had taken place, and was likely to result in a ser- viceable, if not very elegant, clavicle. The patient was cautioned not to