14 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. led Hermann* to divide them into—(i) Indifferent gases, amongst which he includes nitrogen, hydrogen, and perhaps carburetted hydrogen, which, when mingled with oxygen, can be respired for a considerable period without harm, though when breathed in a state of purity they in- duce dyspnoea, convulsions, and asphyxia. (2) Irrespirable gases, which can only be breathed in small quantities, on account of their occasioning spasm of the glottis, as carbonic acid, hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, and sul- phurous acid gases, nitric peroxide gas and ammonia ; and, lastly, poisonous gases, some of which, as sulphuretted, antimoniuretted, pho<phuretted, and arseniuretted hydrogen and nitrous oxide gases, oxidize themselves at the expense of the oxygen of the blood, and thus induce dyspnoea, convul- sions, and asphyxia; whilst others, as carbonic oxide and hydrocyanic acid, appear to replace oxygen in its combination with hsematin. Nitrous oxide and olefiant gases have a complicated action, inducing narcosis. The question of the seat of the processes of oxidation which lead to the formation of carbonic acid, left undecided by the opposite results obtained by MM. Estor and St. Pierre and M. Hirschmann, has not yet been decisively settled. M. Hoppe-Seyler f maintains that the true seat of the processes of oxida- tion is not in the blood itself, but results from contact with the various organs and tissues of the body ; for it may be shown, first, that living blood compelled for a short time to remain in a living artery assumes the charac- ters of venous blood ; secondly, that the same change also occurs with defi- brinated blood ; but, thirdly, that this does not occur if the blood be intro- duced in the artery in a small glass tube ; that, fourthly, a piece of living artery immersed in defibrinated blood occasions venous discoloration of the blood in its immediate neighbourhood ; and, lastly, that no materials can be withdrawn from the vessels by means of a diluted solution of chloride of sodium, which can render the blood venous. Mr. Heaton, in an able paper,J adduces valid chemical considerations to the effect that the greater portion of the oxidizing processes must of necessity occur in the blood whilst still retained within the vessels, since the amount of oxygen contained in the carbonic acid eliminated is greater than can by any reasonable possibility be supposed to pass out of the vessels, with the lymph or liquor sanguinis, into the interstices of the tissues. It may be remarked that M. Hoppe-Seyler's experiments do not appear to be incompatible with Mr. Heaton's theory. M. Fick, however,§ is of opinion that the substances free from nitrogen, which are consumed in the development of the muscular force, constitute part of the proper muscular tissue, and complains that he has been misrepresented in saying that the oxidation takes place in the blood-vessels. Animal heat. — Jiirgensen || endeavoured to ascertain the diurnal variations of temperature in three healthy persons, by inserting a thermo- meter, to the depth of about two inches, into the rectum, and reading off the indications every five minutes throughout the day. He found the niini- * ' Phvsiologie,' 1868, p. 151. f ' Medicin.-Chemisch Untersuch.,' Berlin, 1867, p. 295. t ' Lond. Phil. Mag.,' 1867, p. 341. § ' Virchow's Jahresbericht' for 1867, p. 80. || 'Deutsches Archivf. Klin. Medicin,' iii, p. 166.