CHOREA. 87 posterior part of the anterior lobe. Of single symptoms, the weightiest is the position of the pain, where this is defined, and the occurrence of limited convulsions and paralysis. Headache, especially when occipital, ordinarily corresponds with the seat of the abscess in the brain. Affec- tions of -the motor ganglia almost always cause symptoms on the opposite side. When the abscess is in the cerebellum there are often no characteristic symptoms. As regards the size of the abscess, it may be remarked that the nearer its focus is to the motor centres or the grey cortical substances the more numerous the symptoms will be. There are no means of diagnosing whether one or more abscesses are present; but with regard to secondary abscess of the brain, the author records eight cases, of which four were secondary to affections of the lungs, one to otorrhcea, and three to external injuries of the joints (: Zur Pathol, des Hirnabscesses,' R. Meyer, Zurich, 1867). Professor Behier confirms the pathological discovery of Charcot and Bouchard of the universal existence of small aneurisms of the cerebral arteries in cases where cerebral haemorrhage takes place. These are not like the aneurisms which occur upon a large trunk; they are changes in the little vessels which commence with a sclerosis of the general arterial system of the brain. Small, true, aneurismal, bladder-like dilatations make their appearance, sometimes only bulging out on one side, more frequently fusiform enlargements. To the naked eye, as seen on the surface or in the substance of the brain, they appear as red or blackish objects hardly the size of a millet seed. They are found in the centre of the hemorrhagic effusion itself, and communicate with it by an opening which in all respects resembles the rupture of a common aneurism. Around the rupture one finds the remnants of the membrana adventitia. Occasionally the effusion is at first between the artery and the surrounding adventitia, but finally bursts the latter. In fact, we see in these cases how the coagula in these little aneurisms continue into the blood-clots which form the hemorrhagic effusion. Since Behier's attention has been directed to the subject he has never failed to find these little aneurisms in every case of cerebral haemorrhage, and he recognises them as the most important element in the causation of hemorrhagic apoplexy (' Gazette des H6pitaux,' 20, 1868). Chorea. Dr. John Harley comes to some important conclusions as to the value of conium in the treatment of this disease. (1) For a long time We have been using preparations of hemlock, which are completely inert even when given in the largest doses that can be conveniently taken. (2) That the extract and succus of the present pharmacopoeia are also inert when given in the doses therein prescribed. (3) That in order to influence any of the diseases to which it is anta- gonistic, hemlock must be given in such doses as will produce within about an hour its proper physiological effects. (4) That the quantity required to produce these effects will bear a direct proportion to the muscular activity of the individual. He regards chorea simply as a primary disorder of nervous centres, and, excluding