335 PARALYSIS WITH MUSCULAR HYPERTROPHY. insensibility followed, and in two out of the three cases death ensued; in one case, as it seemed, from shock, without any return of conscious- ness ; in the other death was attributed to congestion of the lungs, consciousness being perfect to the last. About six ounces were used for dressing the three cases. It was warmed and sponged over the whole body. Apparatus for writers palsy.—In the ' G-az. Med. de Paris,' 1867, p. 108, an apparatus is described which M. Desormeaux exhibited to the Socic'te de Chirurgie, and which is intended for the relief of scrivener's palsy. It is described as being very light and very cheap. Its object is to suppress the action of the thumb in writing, and this is effected by adapting the pen in a suitable position to a metal plate fixed by rings to the index and middle fingers. The thumb then remains inactive, and is rested on the paper or on the last fingers during the act of writing. M. Desormeaux has satisfied himself that writers who could use no other machinery were able by means of this apparatus to write for hours without fatigue. The pathology of paralysis with muscular degeneration (paralysie myosclerotique), or, paralysis with apparent hypertrophy. By Dr. Duchenne, of Boulogne. (An abstract of a communication made in the author's name to the Pathological Society of London by Mr. Lockhart Clarke.) Summary of symptomology.—The clinical facts which serve as a basis for studying the symptomology of the disease show that paralysis with degeneration (sclerosie) of muscles, or with apparent hypertrophy of muscles, is marked, in general, by three distinct periods or stages—a stage of paralysis, a stage of hypertrophy, and a stage in which the paralysis becomes general. (1) The first stage is manifested either at the time when the children should begin to walk, or some years after they have begun. In the former case, although the conformation of these children be quite normal, and although, while lying down or in the arms of their mothers or their nurses, they appear to possess their natural share of motility, yet, when they arrive at the age of twelve or fourteen months, if an attempt be made to stand them on their legs, they immediately fall down. It is not till they have attained the age of two or three years that they are able to stand upright or to walk, and even then they require support. In the latter case, after these children have walked well for several years, it is remarked that, either spontaneously or sub- sequently to some convulsions, they are soon fatigued by standing or walking; that, without some support, they find these operations become more and more difficult and painful, and that they are subject to fre- quent falls. Whatever may have been the age at which the malady fir.-t made its appearance, it is soon observed that, in order to maintain their equilibrium while standing or walking, all these children bend themselves very much backward and keep their legs very much apart; that at each step they incline laterally towards the leg which rests on the ground—a movement which produces a characteristic balancing of the body during progression.