REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 892 Secretion when the Urine is Suppressed in the Choleraic Collapse" (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868), illustrates the same subject. He cites the most authentic information, and concludes that cholera often actually increases the mammary secretion ; that menstruation also may occur during the algide stage; that the liability to abortion is, for the most part, limited to the early periods of pregnancy, and that the blood lost on such occasions is not unfrequently florid ; and that towards the full term of pregnancy, not only does the liability to abortion usually dis- appear, but the life of the foetus may be maintained during a prolonged algide stage. Dr. Barnes contributes (' Obst. Trans.,' x) a memoir on chorea in pregnancy. He tabulates the cases recorded; relates in detail a case observed by himself in which chorea in pregnancy induced mania; discusses the etiology of the disease, and especially the cardiac embolic theory ; and advances the theory that the mania and other cerebral symptoms are the result of the repeated shocks of the choreic convul- sions, which induce change of nutrition in nervous centres. Dr. Hughlings Jackson maintained that embolism in the corpora striata was the universal cause. See also an interesting case of recurrent chorea in two successive pregnancies as reported in the 'Lancet,' October, 1868, by Drs. H. Thompson and Hall Davis ; and a case of choreic convulsions and taenia occurring in pregnancy by W. C. Blackett ('Trans, of New- castle Obst. Soc.,' 1868). Abnormal {Extra-uterine) Pregnancy. A rare case of intermural foetation is described by Dr. B. Hicks (' Obst. Trans.,' ix). He believes that an intermural fetation con- tinued enlarging towards the peritoneal cavity, and towards the utpriue cavity at about the same rate, and at last bulging into the uterine cavity, it burst into this, permitting the escape of the fcetus, and simu- lating an ordinary abortion. The sac then compressing the placenta retained in it, a large vein just beneath the peritoneum burst, producing fatal haemorrhage. Dr. B. Hicks (loc. cit.) relates a case of extra-uterine foetation treated by abdominal section, with recovery. Dr. Jacubowitz (' Wien. Med. Presse,' 1867) gives a case of ab- dominal gestation; spontaneous perforation of the abdominal wall; gradual expulsion and extraction of the fcetus; recovery. Dr. Fisk relates ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1867) a fatal case, with the dissection. Professor Eduard Martin ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1868) describes the following case of Fallopian gestation cured by puncture of the cyst:— A woman, set. 29, became pregnant for the first time in January, 1867. On 25th February, after exerting herself in moving furniture, she felt a sudden acute pain in the abdomen ; a choking sensation and vomiting set in, with straining at stool and urine. The vagina was narrowed, the uterus anteflexed, the body enlarged, the os hard to reach in the hollow of