REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 890 (ibid.) ; and cases are related by Brechler ('Wien. Med. Presse,' 1866) and Fisher (' Liv. Med. and Surg. Sep./ 1868). Dr. Grenser relates a case of albuminuria in pregnancy, which has points of interest. A primipara had extreme cedema of the thighs and labia pudendi. Urine contained much albumen. When labour had lasted seven hours, and the child had been driven down to the out- let of the pelvis, progress was arrested by the swollen, stretched condi- tion of the labia. These were punctured with a needle, with immediate good effect; in half an hour the child was born. During the first few days the oedema disappeared from the extremities, but some ascites con- tinued. Pulse rose to 120, temperature to 31-5 C. This gradually lessened along with the albuminuria under digitalis (' Monatsschr. f. Greburtsk.,' Jan. 1867). Dr. Boulton relates (' Obst. Trans.,' ix) a case of paraplegia occur- ring during pregnancy. Dr. John B. Tuke ('Edinb. Med° Journ.,' 1867) describes cases illustrative of the insanity of pregnancy. Dr. Skinner describes a case ('Obst. Trans.,' ix) of salivation successfully treated by a mixture of alum, sulphate of magnesia, sul- phuric acid, laudanum, and chloroform. Dr. Paul Davidson gives a case illustrating jaundice in pregnancy. A single woman, set. 26, was brought in to the Breslau Clinique in labour. She was a large, robust primipara. She had recovered from an attack of cholera when three months pregnant. For the last five or six days she felt depressed and weak, headache, loss of appetite, constipation, but went about her work. Three days ago a yellow tinge of face appeared, and at the same time the urine became like brown beer. The day before admission she had vomiting, and labour-pains set in. Some blood was discharged from vagina during the night. The waters broke and a child was quickly expelled. The placenta soon followed. There was little blood. The uterus contracted. The child, which had died in utero, was about 25 weeks old. It was deeply stained yellow, with- out sign of decomposition. The woman was now intensely icteric, pulse78, respiration 18, temperature 36'5° C, pupils natural, answers cor- rectly. Percussion in region of the liver was not painful. The dulness began in the fifth intercostal space, and ended with the edge of the ribs. A profuse atonic metrorrhagia set in an hour after labour. It was arrested by cold injections. The uterus continually showed a disposi- tion to relax. Soon vomiting set in, at first of watery clear fluid, with excitation, thirst, then of black coffee-like fluid ; blood appeared in the vomited matters. Six ounces of urine drawn by catheter was turbid, dark brown, with yellow foam, copious sediment of uric-acid salts, a marked biliary reaction ; no albumen, no cylinders. Vomiting conti- nued, blood always in the ejecta. Pulse remained at about 70. Per- cussion showed a marked diminution in size of the liver. The urine was almost suppressed. Death ensued after increasing collapse and coma withiu 24 hours after delivery. The urine, carefully examined, showed abundance of biliary salts and leucin-globules. Autopsy.—The pericardium contained a considerable quantity of aundice-coloured serum, some small punctated ecchymosea in the mus-