REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 366 bacillary layer. The luminous waves of white light differ from those of coloured light only in the speed of their vibrations and in their refrangibility. Hence, an organ that is capable of being impressed by such differences of speed, and of perceiving such differences of refrangi- bility, will convey a more or less exact notion of colour. Such con- ditions are presented by the cones, which are composed of highly refractive substance, of which the apices are turned towards the centre of the eyeball,* and which are traversed, from base to apex, by a central filament that passes into the granular layer. A pencil of rays, falling on the surface of a cone, near its apex, must neces- sarily, in traversing the cone, undergo decomposition, according to the laws of light, and must produce at the base concentric circles of the solar spectrum—that is, circles of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. The seven circles of the base remain, therefore, constantly sensible of and impressionable by these seven colours, so that, if a pencil of monochromatic light (say of blue light) reaches a cone, it falls wholly upon the circle adapted to receive blue rays, and the other circles remain unimpressed. Each simple colour" passes through the cone without decomposition, and goes to its own place. Every compound colour is decomposed, and its elements are distributed. The author suggests that congenital colour-blindness, or incapacity to distinguish certain colours, may be due to imperfect development of the bases of the cones, and also that the state of the colour sensation may afford a test of the character and seat of retinal changes in disease. Disease affecting the region of the macula and the external layers of the retina will destroy the sense of colour wholly or partially, while disease affecting lateral regions or the internal layers (such as in albu- minuria retinitis) will leave the sense of colour intact. In a subsequently published work,f of which the above paper forms an introductory portion, the author proceeds to inquire what are the affections of the eye in which the cones are primarily implicated ; or, in other words, to what morbid changes may any given alteration of colour-sensibility be traced? He illustrates the importance of the inquiry by mentioning the several conditions in which the ophthalmo- scopic signs, aided by the other subjective symptoms, are insufficient for the formation of an exact diagnosis. Amongst these are the com- mencement of nerve atrophy, the amblyopia potatorum, and some forms of syphilitic disease ; and M. Galezowski believes that the state of the colour-sensibility will in these be of great importance. He arrives at the following conclusions : In retinal apoplexies the' chromatic faculty is only altered when the * Without entering upon certain optical difficulties that suggest themselves to my mind, and, at the same time, without wishing to deny that the seat of the function of colour perception may he in the cones, there seems to be a difficulty in the way of the implicit acceptance of the author's hypothesis. That difficulty arises from the fact that the position of the cones in the retina is the exact reverse of what he states it to be. Their bases are turned towards the centre of the eyeball, and their apices towards the choroid.—R. B. C. t 'Du diagnostic des Maladies des Yeux par la Chromatoscopie retinienne.' Paris, 1868.