373 HYPEItMETllOPIA, ETC. In this number the author does not include cases of astigmatism due to ;tny lesion of the cornea. One child alone was wearing piano-cylin- drical glasses. The last chapter of M. Cohn's treatise describes the various ocular affections found in 396 of the children, or 4 per cent. They were twice as numerous in the town schools as in those of the villages. The most important of them are changes in the cornea and strabismus. Opacities of the cornea were very common among the pupils of the primary schools, especially of those in the old quarter of Breslau, and attended by the children of the most indigent. They were much less common in the country. M. Cohn found 64 cases of convergent strabismus without hyperme- tropia. In 19 children the deviation was consequent upon some other affection of the eye. But the other 45 presented no anatomical lesion, and no fault of refraction that could be regarded as a cause of strabis- mus; 35 of the cases were periodic, and 10 were concomitant. In the schools in which strabismus, without appreciable organic cause, was. in M. Cohn's language, endemic, he found the children in the habit of amusing themselves by looking fixedly at the index finger, held very near the nose, so as to produce extreme convergence of the visual Hues. He believes this practice to be the cause of the strabismus, and advises that it should be forbidden. Among 100 cases of convergent strabismus, 71 were complicated by hypermetropia; 8 by other ocular affections; 21 were free from com- plications. These numbers show the close relations between hyperme- tropia and squint, and fully confirm the statements of Donders. In conclusion the author advises— 1. That school-fittings should be made with due reference to the height of the pupils. 2. That class-rooms should be sufficiently lighted. 3. That the selection of spectacles should be entrusted to medical practitioners. 4. That teachers should forbid the children to squint. 5. That school-managers should^learn the elements of ocularjhygiene, so as to understand what conditions would act injuriously upon the vision of the scholars. Since the publication of the treatise, of which the foregoing is an abstract, the author has examined the eyes of 410 out of 964 students of the Breslau University, and has recorded his results.* He found 134 emmetropes, 244 myopes, and 32 with other conditions; so that less than one third of the whole number were normal sighted, and nearly two thirds were short sighted. The mean grade of myopia was jJj-, and the higher degrees were usually in the children of myopic parents. The mean grade was distinctly higher among the students who occupied the worst lighted rooms. Of the 224 myopes, 174 used con- icave glasses, and of these .55 neutralized, 8 5 corrected, and 34 over- 1 neutralized, the myopia. The author concludes by strongly insisting 1 upon the necessity for attention to the hygiene of vision in all educa- tional establishments. * ' Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1867.