163 DYSENTERY. Dr. G. Kerner, of Frankfort, has examined the action of chinovic acid, a resinous constituent of bark, iu the treatment of dysentery and of chrome so-called nervous diarrhoea. The acid exists in cinchona barks, in the form of chinovin, in which it is combined with a peculiar BUgar. Chinovin may be obtained in a state of purity by boiling bark with milk of lime, and precipitating the decoction with muriatic acid. The precipitate is rapidly dissolved in milk of lime, decoloured with animal charcoal, and reprecipitated with muriatic acid. Chinovid of lhne, which is the best medicinal form of administering chinovic acid, is prepared by dissolving well-purified chinovin in milk of lime, filtering the solution, and evaporating it to dryness. It is given in doses of from two to eight grains every hour in acute diarrhoea and dysentery. It does not cause symptoms of cerebral congestion, like quinine, when given in large doses. It is a bitter acid tonic, which exceeds in value the majority of all discovered bitters (' Deutsche Klin.,' 9 and 10, 1868.) In TUnion Med.,' iii, 1867, p. 100, is recorded, by M. Boisseau, the case of a soldier who died of intestinal obstruction induced by the collec- tion of the refuse of strawberries (the fruit or achenes), in great quantity, in the ileum, near the ileo-csecal valve. The case is certainly peculiar. Dr. T. Heron "Watson ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' May, 1868) gives a paper on intestinal concretions. He points out that these are far less nume- rous nowadays than formerly, owing to the oats being better prepared for food. Two things are, he says, necessary for their formation—a nucleus and a material whereof to form the concretion. For a nucleus gall-stones may often suffice, as he shows by a case which came under his notice. The case he gives iu illustration was that of a man who had long been dyspeptic, who felt a tumour forming in the gut, but which gradually became displaced. He next observed difficulty in passing his motions, and that a lump came down and obstructed the gut when he went to stool. Gentle aperients alone relieved him. On examination a hard mass could be felt in the rectum; this was ejected by the fingers. Another was removed in like manner, and the man was cured. The larger mass weighed 627 grs., the second 538 grs. The smaller was dense and stone-like, consisting of phospbate and carbonate of lime and ammoniaco magnesian phosphate ; the nucleus consisted of phosphate of lime. The larger and lower consisted of two parts—a crust of earthy material, and a nucleus consisting mainly of the covering of the oat, or rather of the minute hairs found below this. Dr. Paterson records a case ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June, 1868) where fifteen intestinal concretions were passed with permanent relief. The illness of the boy began when eight years old with an attack of scarlatina followed by dropsy, after which for eight years he was constantly attacked with colic. Five years after these symptoms had begun a dougby tumour could be felt at the head of the colon ; and not long after this, after an excessively severe attack of colic, a body said to be a plum-stone, was passed. After this he was for a time better, but the attacks returned. The tumour meanwhile had increased, was harder, and more tender. Latterly the colicky pains were almost constant. On Christmas-eve, 1867, he obtained relief by passing four calculi, soft and velvety, with indented surfaces, as if from mutual pressure; more could be felt in