306 HEPOUT ON SU11GKRY. have left the'Lbladder immediately after being injected ; it seemed strand that none came from the bowel. An examination was made as high up as it was possible to make it, while the anus was distended with Sims' speculum, but no opening into the gut was discovered; no liquid was seen to dribble out from the walls of the rectum, nor did the finger reach anything to determine the existence of a fistula; in fact, the mucous membrane of the. rectum seemed so far perfectly normal. " I charged the attendant to mark particularly when coloured stools should appear. The injection was made at i, and at 3 the first passage came, and several others at intervals afterwards; all of these were separated one from the other as soon as voided, but no colour was found in any. This circumstance at first appeared strange, but when I afterwards learned that the bluing was composed of indigo simply, I explained the non-appearance of colour by the rapid bleaching which that substance underwent in contact with the ammonia, the presence of which in the stools was easily detected by the smell. To be sure that this explanation was correct, I filled a tumbler with a recent fluid evacuation from the bowels, and added a small quantity of the washing- blue. The bluish colour which it imparted to the liquid disappeared in a few minutes, leaving the colour as it was before the addition of the washing-blue. " Two days subsequent to this I took the common writing-ink diluted, and injected six ounces of it into the bladder. The stopcock of the catheter being opened, as two days previously, no fluid escaped from its extremity, but about ten minutes after, however, the patient had a stool which showed some of the colour; in the course of two hours more another stool was coloured nearly as dark as the injection itself; in two hours more another stool contained the colour, hut not so intense, and four hours after the injection the evacuation had its usual brown appearance. This fact corroborated the opinion which I had previously held, that the fistula was high up, probably between the small intestines and bladder. This being the case, it was impossible to devise any rational plan to treat the fistula, but the only indication to fulfil was to relieve the patient of the stones in the bladder." The usual lateral operation was performed and nine stones ex- tracted from the bladder; the patient was for a time much relieved, but sank and died five and a half days after the operation. On post- mortem examination the marks of old peritonitis were found in the shape of strong adhesions around the sigmoid flexure. The communi- cation of the bladder was with the vermiform process. There was a large sinuous ulcer at the-neck of the bladder, probably caused by the lodgment of some of the stones. The opening from the hladder into the gut was situated near the right ureter, and was smooth bordered. Near this hole was another smaller circular opening, which did not communicate with the vermiform process, but ended blind at the depth of a couple of lines. As far as stated, the mucous membrane of the intestine was healthy. The kidneys were in an advanced condition of Bright's disease, which accounts for the fatal result of lithotomy. On the general question of vesicointestinal fistula, Dr. Krackowizer says— "As objects of surgical interference, cases of iutestiuo-vesical fistula must be divided into two distinct groups.