203 REMOVAL OP TUMOURS BY ELECTROLYSIS. any time during tlie progress of the treatment, any bad symptom what- soever ; and in most cases not a drop of blood was lost. In i case the growth was so extensive that both Mr. Paget and Sir William Fer- gusson, who were consulted previously to the patient coming under my care, refused to interfere with the tumour. In another case, where the na?vus was seated on the lower eyelid, Mr. Dixon had been previously consulted, and advised to leave the growth alone on account of its posi- tion, although the nsevus was a source of great annoyance for the patient. Neither an awkward position, nor extreme size of a naevus, can ever be an impediment to the electrolytic treatment, which I believe to be suitable for all cases of nsevus, indiscriminately. " Of bronchocele, I have had 8 cases under treatment. Of these, 2 were cured, 1 was improved, 5 are still under treatment and progress- ing favorably. In several of these cases Mr. Prescott Hewett, Mr. Paget, and Sir William Fergusson, had been previously consulted, and had pronounced any of the ordinary operations to be inadmissible. Most of these cases were of an enormous size, and on that account re- quired a long continuance of the treatment; but I believe my experience justifies me in saying that any case of bronchocele, however large, may, in course of time, be cured by electrolysis. " Of sebaceous tumours of the scalp and face I have treated 14 cases. Of these 13 were cured; the fourteenth patient was obliged to leave town before the end of the treatment, but would, from the change already caused in the tumour, have been cured by one or two more applications. In sebaceous tumours the treatment is short, as they never attain to any considerable size. ,; Of that hypertrophy of the skin which Mr. Wilson calls ecphyma mollusciforme, I have treated 5 cases. Two of these were seated on the upper eyelid, 2 on the cheek, and 1 on the back of the neck. Pour of these cases were cured; the fifth was not heard of again after two applications, but, from the change already caused in the tumour, I believe that it must have disappeared long ere this.* " Of kelis, I have had one case under my care; but, as I saw the patient only once, I am unable to say whether any result has been obtained. " Of lipoma, 3 cases have come under my treatment. One of these is nearly cured; the other two patients discontinued the treatment before any appreciable result was obtained. One of these latter patients, a highly nervous gentleman, complained of pain and swelling of the tumour after the application, and wrote to say that some matter was formed at one of the punctures. This is the only case where some limited suppuration seems to have taken place in consequence of the galvanic applications. " I have cured a cyst of the lower lip, in a gentleman, aged 53, and a ganglion on the wrist of a lady, aged 30, by the same method. " Of glandular tumours I have treated 3 cases, all of which were much improved, but none continued the treatment until the entire re- moval of the enlargement. Thus, of 47 cases of non-malignant tumours, 20 were cured, 10 improved, and in 7 cases no result was obtained, or the result unknown. * This case is now known to have been successful.