88 ItEPOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. all other remedies, lias relied on hemlock alone. He has found it useful to give such large closes as from three drachms to half an ounce or five drachms daily, and sometimes even twice or three times a day. The production of the proper physiological effect is indicated by the occur- rence of giddiness, tottering, and great heaviness, with tendency to sleep, or rather to cease muscular exertion and remain quiescent; this condition rapidly passes off. The medicine seems to have no effect on the pulse or pupils nor upon any of the secretions; in short, these enormous doses appear usually to have the effect of influencing the disease of the nervous centres which is the cause of chorea. As before observed, the amount which will be required is proportionate to the muscular activity of the patient. Dr. J. W. Ogle sums up the history of sixteen cases of fatal chorea occurring at St. George's Hospital between 1841 and 1867. Fourteen were females and two males. The ages were, in two cases, 7 and 9; in three, 21, 23, 26; in the remaining eleven between 10 and 20 years ; the duration of the disease was in one case eight days, in three cases ten days, in one case fourteen days, in two cases three days, in one case six days, in one case nine weeks, in two cases three months, in one case six months, and in one case seven months. Three of the patients had suffered from chorea before. Of concurrent diseases epilepsy, delirium, and scarlet fever occurred each in one case; headache, hysteria, mania, and erysipelas each in two cases ; in five cases there was disturbance of menstruation ; in two pregnancy. The existing causes were, in eight cases, mental, mostly fright. Bheumatic affections had occurred in four, if not six, cases previously. As regards anatomical changes there was greater or less hyperemia of the brain or softening, or both ; in six cases softening of special portions of the brain. In ten cases there were fibrinous deposits on the heart-valves, and in three of these also pericarditis. Notwithstanding these facts, Ogle opposes the opinions of Kirkes and Tuckwell that there is always heart disease and embolism in chorea, and explains their frequent concurrence by a rheumatic anaemic condition, which is the common cause of all the symptoms. Epilepsy. Dr. A. Flint, of America, discusses the various remedies for this disease. He speaks of nitrate of silver, zinc, digitalis, opium, bella- donna, and bromide of potassium; he speaks more strongly than most recent writers of the value of nitrate of silver. On the subject of oxide of zinc he does not add anything to the statements of Herpin; he mentions Bevington's use of sulphate of zinc and Barnsey's employ- ment of the phosphate without expressing an opinion ; he speaks well of the valerianate. Of copper, with or without ammonia, he also speaks on the authority of others. The preparation of digitalis which he recom- mended is the infusion in increasing doses to as high a point as can be tolerated, and given for long periods. He discourages the use of opium; he repeats Trousseau's opinions about belladonna without expressing a definite opinion. Of bromide of potassium he speaks strongly with personal knowledge. Both in his own experience and