MS POUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 52 Btreak ; there are numerous pus-corpuscles here, the greatest number being at the outer edge. Later, when the opacity concentrates round the centre, the pus-cells here also become extremely dense, while their number as much diminish at the margin of the cornea. The slough never contains pus-cells. If the experiments be varied by setting up continuous irritation, as that of a thread drawn through the cornea and left, the opacity is con- tinuous and the cornea swells, and even forms abscesses which may rupture. Cohnheim explains the fact that purulent infiltration always begins either at the upper or the lower border of the cornea by the fact that here the largest and most numerous blood-vessels approach the cornea. The above experiments were made on frogs ; but very similar results were obtained in observations on rabbits, although the greater tendency to slough often interfered with the accuracy of observation. These experiments made it very probable that the pus migrated into the cornea from without; and Cohnheim, in subsequent experiments, accordingly fed the animals with particles of insoluble colouring matter, hoping that these would render the pus-cells, which easily absorb such matters, very easily traceable in their course. In order to avoid falla- cies, Cohnheim first experimentally proved that aniline blue introduced into the conjunctival sac, or injected into the anterior chamber, had no effect on the pus-cells of the inflamed cornea. It now remained to be seen whether the lymphatics could be the channel of introduction. Aniline blue having been injected into a lymph-sac of the frog, the tissues show nowhere any pigment; but if we cause a keratitis, some of the pus-cells will contain blue granules. The number of cells thus stained depends pretty much on the quantity of colouring matter successfully introduced. These experiments still left it doubtful whether the pus-cells migrate directly from the lym- phatic system, or by a more indirect road to the cornea, namely, by the blood-vessels. It was already known, from the researches of Eecklinghausen, that solid particles introduced into the lymph-sacs easily enter the blood- vessels ; for the most part they were found in the interior of the white corpuscles. Cohnheim now experimented on direct injection of colour- ing matter into the blood with precisely the same results as those ob- tained by injection of the lymph-sac. No coloured granules are seen in the normal tissues, but if the cornea be excited its pus-cells will be seen to obtain colouring matter. These experiments, so successful on the frog, fail in the rabbit, probably from deposition of the pigment in the blver. The researches were now extended to a highly vascular tissue, the peritoneum of frogs which had been previously poisoned with curara so as to render them motionless, the effect beiug kept up by successive small injections. The inflammation was excited by exposure of the me- sentery to the air. Congestion is rapidly developed till a dense uniform redness is produced; in a few hours the whole looks cloudy, and the individual vessels become indistinct. In from fifteen to thirty-six hours the mesentery and intestine are covered with a soft layer of false membrane, which under the microscope is seen to consist entirely of