OCCURRENCE OF TWO SPECIFIC FEVERS AT ONCE. 63 formerly at Bale. The most powerful form of cool bath is a plunge, of temperature 6i° Fahr., and 10 or 15 minutes' duration, or on Ziemssen's plan, a warm bath gradually cooled down to this level, and then kept at it for a little time. For very weakly patients it may be well only to continue the bath for 5 minutes. In private practice a convenient plan is the use of Preissmitz's cold packing for 10 or 20 minutes; its effect closely resembles that of the cold plunge (' Deutsches Archiv f. Klin. Med.,' iv, 3 and 4). At the Budolph's Hospital in Vienna they have employed ice very freely in the treatment of typhoid, and in general with great refreshment to the patients. Ice was given internally, and also applied externally. In one case, where there were blood and albumen in the urine, the use of saccharated iodide of iron in 2-grain doses produced a remarkably rapid improvement, after tannin and other remedies had failed ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 137, 1868). An interesting outbreak of typhoid fever at Gruildford, in the autumn of 1867, was reported upon by Dr. Buchanan (see ' Ninth Beport of the Medical Officer to the Privy Council'). The chief importance of this epi- demic was the accuracy with which, after some difficulties, its occur- rence was traced to the use, on a particular day, of water fouled with sewage. This, however, belongs to the department of hygiene; but there is a point, also, of great interest which comes out in the course of the in- vestigation, viz. that the great outbreak of the disease occurred exactly fourteen days after the one day on which the water was distributed to the population of the higher parts of Guildford. This gives considerable corroboration to the opinion hitherto entertained on inconclusive evidence, that the period of incubation of typhoid is about two weeks. Occurrence of two Specific Fevers at once. Some interesting cases are reported by Monti (' Jahrb. f. Kinderk.,' 1868), and by Steiner, of this kind of complication. Monti reports a case in which measles and scarlatina were combined. The family in which this occurred was composed of five children—three boys of the respective ages of 10 years, 18 months, and 2 months; and 2 girls of 14 and 6 year3. The two youngest boys and the younger girl had no connection with other children; the eldest boy and girl went to separate schools. In the boys' school there was a severe epidemic of measles. The boy appears to have caught the measles there. In the girls' school there was an epidemic of scarlet fever, and the eldest girl became affected with it in the middle of January. The child of 18 months caught the measles from the elder brother, and just as this was vanishing she sbowed symptoms of scarlet fever. The girl of 6 years was exposed to both contagions, and on the 21st January she ex- hibited feverish symptoms, apparently combining both affections. The even and nose and the throat exhibited the characteristic symptoms of the two diseases. On the third day a scarlatina rash was well developed ; on the following day this somewhat faded, but some crescentic spots of measles were visible. The two eruptions vanished about the fifth or