47 SYPHILIS. Treatment is sometimes vain, but this is only the same as happens in all other departments of therapeutics. (4) Mercury still seems the most powerful remedy for the first stage. (5) At least it must be allowed that mercury is as powerful as any other drug; it is not to be replaced by anything in inveterate syphilis, in visceral syphilis, and in syphilis of pregnant women and infants. (6) The prudent use of mercury, with hygienic and tonic measures, never does harm. (7) The problem how to treat syphilis without mercury is not solved, nor will it soon be. (8) Bichromate of potash has no important advantage over mer- cury. M. Yelpeau spoke in the same tone. He thinks many cases which have been supposed to have got well without mercury are deceptive, because many patients take mercury without the knowledge of the doctor. Syphilis is only cured without mercury within a very narrow range. Nature herself may cure syphilis. This, however, only happens in good constitutions, with favorable conditions of life, and with a slight dose of the poison ; but half of the cases treated without mercury are not cured, but suffer relapses. People who suffer from tertiary symptoms, and are not treated with mercury, are not well cured with iodide of potassium. Velpeau recommends most strongly Van Swieten's solution in the first stage, and for secondary symptoms. The good effect of this treatment is incontestable. The mercurial treatment should last three months. Yelpeau considers mercury to be as important in syphilis as quinine in ague. YL Depres strongly opposes the use of mercury; he does not believe there is a single instance of a poison in the body being neutralised by a drug. A tonic system of treatment is the only proper one for syphilis, and the apparent cures from mercury are really due to this having been adopted at the same time. The advocates of mercury are not agreed as to the proper time or dose of the remedy, nor the special way in which it should be given. Of 95 cases in all stages which he treated with tonics only, 7 or 8 per cent, experienced a relapse; of 101 cases treated with moderate doses of mercury, the recoveries were about the same; but of 13 cases where large doses were given, 2, or 15 per cent., relapsed. Depres quotes the authority of Dubic, and mentions several parti- cular cases. One patient took blue pill for twenty-five months and got no good; another, a patient of Diday, took 1200 mercurial pills in eighteen months without the least benefit; the treatment was begun early, but exercised no influence on the course of the disease. The physiological action of mercury is a poisonous one. There is no proof of the supposed influence of mercury on syphilitic deposits. M. Depaul strongly criticised the arguments of Depres, remarking that his cases had not been long enough observed; besides this, some ■were cases under other physicians, and it was not known in what way the mercury had been given; moreover, some of the patients, supposed