187 DISEASES OF THE LIVER. diced, and there was no oedema. On opening the body the intestines were found matted together. The liver was large and congested, and in the gall-bladder was found an opening into the peritoneum. The gall- bladder was filled with calculi, and some were found in the hepatic duct. The walls of the stomach were thickened; on section pus escaped, mostly from the submucous tissue; the muscular coat was in some parts disorganized ; the peritoneal coat was thickened, but there was no pus below the peritoneum; in the submucous coat it was in some places collected into sacs. Dr. Stewart concludes that the gastric disease was the primary affection; this, at all events, it is safe to doubt. Enlargement of the spleen in children the subjects of congenital syphilis is seen, says Dr. Gee (paper read before the Eoyal Medical and Chirurgical Society, March 24, 1867), in about one fourth of the cases. Sometimes enlargement of the liver and other glands is super- added. The size of the spleen is a kind of index of the degree of the cachexy, and it can often be felt enlarged three years after the child lias exhibited any other marked indications of the disease. Sometimes the enlarged spleen is the only sign observable. Enlarged spleens are sometimes found in children who are neither syphilitic nor aguish; they are then accompanied by great cachexia, and this, too, where leukaemia, lymphatic anaemia, rickets, idiopathic purpura, and primary disease of the liver, might be excluded. Eor such cases he proposed the term simple splenic cachexia. The analogy with Trousseau's adenie was pointed out. The statements were supported by the history of thirteen children, in all of whom the syphilitic history was undoubted. Eupture of the liver, spleen, and left kidney, and death, sixteen days after an accident, is certainly very unusual, The case is recorded by Prof. Eayrer, in the 'Medical Times and Gazette' for May 18, 1867. The patient, a Hindoo, aet. 25, fell from a tamarind tree, and fractured both arms. On the 20th Eeb., 1867, he was brought to the hospital, and appropriately treated ; but the wounds did not do well, and he died in consequence of tetanus sixteen days after the event. There was no indication of internal mischief beyond a complaint of pain in the epi- gastrium the day after the accident, when uniformly bloody urine, without any clots, was passed. Next day the urine was also bloody, but there was nothing more till death. "At the post-mortem the heart and great vessels were found to contain clots. The liver was Ptudded with light grey pyaemic patches. On the posterior margin of the right lobe was a superficial rent, and two others on the under surface. The spleen had two ruptures in its posterior edge, the upper one very deep. At the upper end of the left kidney was a rupture running into the hilus, where the areolar tissue was infiltrated with blood. A great part of this kidney was softened. Two ounces of blood- clots lay in the great omentum, and there was some coagulated blood over the kidney and left side of the pelvis. There was no peritonitis. The peculiar condition of the liver Prof. Eayrer attributes to emboli from the ruptured spleen. Dr. Hjaltelin ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 1867) reports most favor- ably on the use of tincture of kamala in the treatment of hydatid cysts in the liver. This disease is extremely common in Iceland, and