34 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIXE. changes found were semi-transparent granulations, partly in the alveoli, partly between the pulmonary fibres ; the apices of both lungs were ad- herent. The liver contained greyish-yellow nodules similar to those in the lungs. In the nine experiments of the next group bronchial and cavernous secretion was used, partly from patients with chronic pneu- monia, partly from cases of pulmonary gangrene. No granulations were found. The animals seemed to die rapidly with blood-poisoning. One dog was next injected per rectum with phosphorous oil; a biliary fis- tula had been established fourteen days before. Many nodules, as large, as pins' heads, each with a central dark blackish point, were found on the pulmonary pleura ; they did not invade the lung-tissues. Numer- ous similar nodules, pale grey and firm, like those in the animals of the first group, were found in both lungs. The nodules possessed the same microscopic structure with those existing in animals inoculated with tubercle. In the last group of experiments melanotic, sarcoma- tous, cancroid, and cancerous products were inoculated. Of three dogs inoculated with melanotic matter one died in two and a half months, and a well-marked stellate cicatrix was found at the site of the wound, under which were a number of small nodules, consisting exclusively of small round cells, like those of lymphatic glands. Lebert regards them as identical with tubercle. Two experiments with sarcomatous matter were without result, except that in one a typical bronchial alveolitis was found. In two other experiments cancroid and carcinomatous matter was injected. No cancer was produced, but in one something like tubercle in the lungs. In two experiments charcoal was injected into the jugular vein. Three cases were immediately fatal. In two others the charcoal penetrated to the pulmonary capillaries, liver, and in one case to the brain. One animal was killed two and a half months later, when apparently healthy. Two nodular masses of areolar infiltration were found, each with a little bit of charcoal in its centre. Several such fragments were found in the adventitia of the pulmonary arteries. In the other rabbit, which died twenty-four days after injection, there were wide-spread foci of irrita- tion. The appearances resembled those of human pneumonia, and the alveoli were filled with a finely granular matter, with a few epithelial cells. In the last six experiments mercury was injected into the veins in five, and in one into the trachea. The appearances produced had no particular relation to. tubercle. Dr. Roustan (' Eecherches sur l'inoculabilite de la Phthisie,' Paris, 1867) describes several series of experiments. In the first, 1 rabbit was inoculated with grey tubercle, 1 with caseous pneumonic matter, and the third with tissue of softened tubercular mesenteric gland. In the second series guinea-pigs were employed, and the general results were confirmatory of Villemin's conclusions. A dog was twice inoculated, first with yellow tubercle, secondly with grey; characteristic lesions were found in many internal organs. In two guigea-pigs the blood of a phthisical patient was injected under the skin without result. The author quotes the experiments of Dr. Goujon, showing the liability of guinea-pigs to spontaneous tubercle, and the rapidity with which tuber- cular inoculatiou produced cfl'octs.