POISONING. 447 merits, rather than to the formation of a volatile arsenical compound, as some have supposed; and in the examination for arsenic of the dust deposited in rooms he insists on the necessity of decomposing the organic matter by means of strong sulphuric acid before introducing the solution into Marsh's apparatus. The symptoms produced are purely those of arsenical poisoniug, and are not in any measure due to the copper also present in the pigment. They are those of alterations in the blood, and disturbance of the central nervous system. There is general ill-health, faintness, loss of appetite, depression, irregularity of the bowels, coldness of the extremities, restless sleep with unpleasant dreams, and the patient appears as if in consumption. The more characteristic symptoms are a discoloration of the skin, which becomes pale or of a yellowish clay-coloured hue, and then, in adults, brownish spots appear on the face, and more especially on the forehead, temples, and cheeks. Sometimes urticaria supervenes ; and in one case, where there was a tendency to it, ecchymosis was observed. It is only in severe cases that the hair of the head is shed. Abnormalities of the nails were observed in one exceptional case. When there is much feverishness the deposits of fat in the body are absorbed, but where there is no pyrexia these deposits are left untouched, or there is even a tendency in the affected person to grow fat in parts, as is observed in arsenic eaters. Conjunctival catarrh and affections of the eyelids are often observed. The mucous membrane of the mouth is either pale or red and inflamed, and there is an increased flow of saliva, sometimes containing pus. Not unfrequently there is chronic inflammation of the throat, dryness, tickling, and hawking up of viscid or purulent sputa, which occasionally are streaked with blood. There may also be inflam- mation of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, and diphtheritic symptoms. Pain in swallowing, heartburn, sense of weight at the stomach, eruc- tation of odourless gases, nausea, and even vomiting, are observed. The appetite may be unaffected, diminished, or entirely lost. Colicky pains and loud rumblings are experienced in the intestines. The liver is of all the abdominal organs that which is most affected, and jaundice is sometimes observed; but this is slight. In one case the internal organs were found to have undergone fatty degeneration. The kidneys appear to undergo the same pathological change as the liver. Painful micturition is one of the characteristic symptoms of this form of poison- ing, though it is not always present. The urine was examined for arsenic in eight cases, and the metal detected in six of them, whilst two yielded negative results. In one case arsenic was detected in the fasces eight weeks after the removal of the patient from the source of poison- ing ; and this is the more remarkable as none of the metal could be detected in the urine. The integrity of the male sexual apparatus is not affected, but that of the female is thrown into sympathetic irritation; but no tendency to abortion was noticed, and the children were born healthy. Beyond hoarseness and violent cough, which was most trouble- some at night, no affection of the respiratory mucous membrane could with certainty be attributed to arsenic. But the wide-spread nervous symptoms are of the greatest interest. Irritability, loss of memory— especially for recent events—melancholy, and huntings, often of an in-