215 CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. He describes the method which he adopted, and which may shortly be stated as being, for the rotation-movements, to fix a rod and dial-plate to the upper part of the chest, the pelvis beirjg fixed and the knees kept firm by grasping a pillar ; and for the lateral curve of the spine, to photo- graph patients while bending their bodies sideways as far as they could without strain. In this way Mr. Barwell convinced himself that rota- tion is pretty equally distributed over the whole spinal column, each of the sixteen bones of the dorsal and lumbar spine (the last lumbar ver- tebra having, probably, no power of rotation), revolving upon the other about 70 75' in ordinary cases, and that the dorsal and lumbar spine can, in ordinary individuals and without exertion, bend laterally in a curve whose radial distance is eight ninths of its own length, assuming it to be circular. This curve, however, is not in reality truly circular ; the greatest amount of bend takes place between the seventh and tenth dorsal vertebra?. With respect to the condition of the spine in other ordinary actions, Mr. Barwell gives the following as the result of his experiments :—" In walking, sitting down, and rising again, and lifting even small weights, the spine bends from side to side. As might be ex- pected, motions of the arms and shoulders influence chiefly the upper part; movements of the lower limbs, especially if the pelvis itself move, chiefly the lower part, of the spine. The former movements only affect the spine when either powerful or prolonged ; for instance, a pound weight may be held in the hand outstretched without influencing the spine for a certain time, but when fatigue commences the column bends ; a greater weight will at the moment of lifting cause bending of the column, produced in both instances by the spinal muscles which lie at the opposite side to that which carries the weight. Any movement which shifts the weight of the body from one leg to the other causes lateral flexion of the lumbar and lower dorsal spine ; for instance, walking, especially ascending a staircase, causes deviation to the right and left, in some persons as high as the seventh dorsal, in others only to the tenth dorsal vertebra. With every lateral movement a commensurate amount of rota- tion is combined; it does not appear possible to bend the spine sideways without at the same time rotating the vertebrae to a certain extent." Mr. Barwell earnestly condemns the application of cumbrous rigid machinery to the spine, as being always inefficient (since the point >• d'appui on which the machine relies for its action is never sufficiently steady), and liable to cause distress and deterioration of the general health. Arguing from this great freedom both of rotation and of lateral motion in every part of the dorso-lumbar spine, Mr. Barwell proceeded to inquire what muscles could produce the amount of rotation indicated by the machine which he employed, " for it appeared to him that the spinal muscles proper in the dorsal portion of the column are not so placed as to produce this effect. Somewhat unexpectedly, he found that rotation of the vertebra in all the upper part of the column is effected by the serratus magnus, which when thin persons are under observation stands out during such action strongly and Bharply." He conceives that the serratus magnus is continued on to the spine by the rhom- boidei muscles, the intervening base of the scapula being, as it were,