SUBPERIOSTEAL RESECTION. 263 use his right arm auy more than was positively necessary, and left the hospital in excellent spirits. " An examination of the clavicle after removal convinced me and every other surgeon who saw it that any operation short of entire extirpa- tion would have proved unavailing. The scapular end of the diseased hone, especially its under surface, was found to he most affected, but the sternal end was considerably disorganized. The articular surface of the sternum was healthy. " On December 31, six months after operation, I had an opportunity of seeing the patieut for the first time after his discharge, and found that he had meanwhile been actively employed at his own business, and had for some weeks been able to use his right arm as perfectly as ever. Occupying the place of the resected clavicle is a new bone, of rather beyond the normal length, and considerably wider, but more flat and thinner, than the original one. This regenerated clavicle plays its part with perfection, allowing the boy to use his arm as efficiently as though no disturbance of the parts had taken place. It is interest- ing to notice the accuracy with which the limits of attachment of the clavicular muscles can be clearly defined when muscular efforts are made." Subperiosteal resection of the head of the humerus.—In M. Ollier's large work, entitled ' Traite experimental et clinique de la Regenera- tion des Os et de la Production artificielle du Tissu osseux' (Paris, 1867), vol. ii, p. 325, is related a case of subperiosteal resection of the shoulder in a man, set. 56, for disease apparently of a rheu- matic nature. An incision, not quite three inches in length, was made on the anterior aspect of the shoulder, starting from a fistulous opening just below the coracoid process; the capsule was opened, the tuberosities of the humerus denuded with the greatest care, and the long head of the triceps pushed aside. In pushing the head of the humerus out of the wound to saw it off, the bone, which was very fragile, was broken at its lower end, just above the con- dyles. This accident, however, exercised no unfavorable influence on the result of the case. The patient was discharged from hospital a fortnight after the operation, and, after recovery, had a very useful arm, with unusual power of elevating it; the distance to which the elbow could be separated from the chest was about seven inches, and this distance increased (as stated in the appendix) till he could almost raise the arm to a right angle. In this operation M. Oilier dwells on the great importance of doing as little harm to the deltoid as possible, and not injuring the nerve which supplies it. At p. 45 of the same volume M. Oilier relates the case of a girl, at. 15 (Louise Gaillard), in whom he removed, together with the head, nearly five inches of the shaft of the humerus subperiosteally. In this case a nearly complete tube of periosteum could be distinguished at the operation. There was no considerable bleeding; only two arteries were tied. This was done on Sept. 16, 1864. A drawing is given re- presenting the bone removed, the size of nature. Another drawing represents the girl after her recovery, to Bhow how perfect the reproduc- tion was; and the following account is given two and a quarter years after