TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 293 " In Dr. Heath's ease the pressure bad been kept up irregularly for about ten hours, when the patient fainted under the chloroform. The pressure was tben removed, and tbe pulsation and other characters of the aneurism were found to be as bad as ever. The patient was then urged to bear a final effort without chloroform. This he did; and to our amazement, when, at the end of twenty minutes, he declared he could bear the pressure no longer, we found the aneurism had become solid and had ceased to beat. " Here, then, are two cases in which the actual process of cure was brought about in less than an hour. How is this effected ? We affirm by coagulation of blood in the sac of the aneurism. We believe this, because of the short time occupied in bringing about a sudden and de- cided change in the disease. It seems to me impossible that fibrine can be so rapidly deposited from the blood in such quantities as to fill up the cavity of a large aneurism, and to change a pulsating, thrilling, and expanding sac, into a motionless solid mass. This opinion is sup- ported by another important fact—the large soft mass which is produced by the filling of the aneurism with solid matter disappears in a few hours. In each of the above cases all trace of the aneurismal tumour was gone before we could obtain a plaster cast of the part. Sapidity of disappearance, then, as well as rapidity of production, is in favour of the existence of coagulation of the blood. In it we have contraction of a clot of blood inside the aneurism, by which the watery parts of the blood are squeezed out and absorbed, such as occurs in a clot of blood outside the body." For several other interesting points touched on in the discussion, we must refer to the original. In the ' Medical Times and Gazette,'Nov. 16, 1867, Mr. Lawson Tait makes some remarks intended to show the advantage of completely interrupting the current through the sac. After observing that the old surgeons failed in the treatment by compression from nsing means which the patient could not tolerate, he proceeds to say : " Compression has failed in our day for this reason to a great extent, but also for another—that the impression exists that only a diminished circulation through the tumour is required to laminate the clot and fill the sac. That this may be the case in some few instances is probable, but to lay it down as a general rule seems to me little more than the state- ment of a theory unsupported by facts. The old statement that aneurisms were sometimes spontaneously cured by the pressure of the sac on the artery is now generally regarded with great suspicion, if not absolutely disbelieved, while we know that the sudden and perfect ob- struction to the circulation through a sac, whether accidentally or by means of the ligature, generally effects a cure. It follows, therefore, from these premises that, cceteris paribus, if a vessel be occluded as suddenly and effectually by means of some external pressure which could be borne by the patient for the same time that it is necessary for the coagulation of tbe blood in tbe sac when the ligature is used, the success of the pressure would be equal to that of the ligature, and greater than it by the difference of risk involved in the disuse of the knife. Again, we have the opinion of one well worthy of attention,