146 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. to direct our attention to the immediate construction of apparatus for the application of the compressed-air treatment in connection with all our hospitals ('Practitioner,' Oct. 1868). From the Kranken-Anstalt of Neu-Sckoneberg, at Berlin, we also receive decided testimony to the value of the compressed-air chamber in the treatment of cardiac affections attended with dropsy. The rapidity of the heart's action was diminished, and the dyspnoea mitigated in a very short time. The remedy was also employed in palpitation and dyspnoea of anaemic origin; it was found rapidly effective especially in those cases where stomach derangement prevented the use of iron ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 138, p. 118). On placing patients in a closed chamber in which the pressure of the air was reduced from 30 to 20 inches, the pulse became remarkably affected, all the signs of a very considerably diminished arterial tension being produced; e. </. the pulse became more voluminous and more rapid, and the line of ascent of the pulse-curve became vertical, &c. Moreover, ophthalmoscopic investigation of the eyes of patients placed in compressed air plainly showed that the retinal vessels were con- stricted ('Virchow's Archiv,' xxxiv, p. 515). Dr. Burdon-Sanderson, commenting on Vivenot's experiments, and relating his own experience of a visit to Eeichenhall, in Bavaria, where the compressed-air cure is carried out with great completeness, observes that these physiological effects of the remedy appear to offer a new and precious resource in many cases of organic disease. He remarks that the influence of the treatment is to alter the fundamental distribution of the blood, diminishing the volume of blood in the veins and auricles, and consequently increasing the quantity contained in the ventricles and arteries. The diminished fulness of the venous system retards the filling of the ventricles during their period of relaxation, and so lengthens the diastolic interval, and slows the pulse. Application of the Graphic Process to the Organs of Circulation. Although no such striking additions to our knowledge of the graphic method as the great work of Wolff,* for instance, have been made within the years 1867-8, in some respects the progress accomplished has been more valuable than anything which had gone before. An exactitude, namely, has been introduced into the application of this mode of observation which has been fruitful in results that are of very great consequence. It must be allowed that some of these results are negative, or rather destructive, for they show that certain diagnostic advantages which have been expected from the method cannot be safely calculated upon. On the other hand, in the more limited field to which the graphic method seems now to be restricted, its indications will henceforward possess a much higher value. In the first place, we may just mention the subject of cardiography, but only to dismiss it. In the ' Retrospect' for 1865-6 we had already noticed the objections which Onimus and Yiry had raised to the correctness of the indications of Marey's cardiograph, on the score of * * Cbaraktcristik des Arterienpulses;' analysed in the ' Retrospect' for 1865-6.