269 EXCISION 01-' THE KNEE. Dr. Konig's paper concludes with some very good observations on the steps of the operation, and a warm recommendation of the plaster- of-Paris bandage applied on the operating-table. This is the only way, according to him, of securing complete immobility of the limb ; and if this end is secured, he confidently anticipates a considerable diminution of the death-rate. In the 'Medical Times and Gazette,' Feb. i and Feb. 8, 1868, Mr. H. Smith has given the results of all the cases of excision of the knee performed in King's College Hospital during the sessional year commencing Oct. i, 1866. The operations were 14 in number, under the care of Sir W. Fergusson, Mr. Partridge, Mr. "Wood, and Mr. H. Smith. Two only proved fatal, both from pyaemia, consequent on osteo- myelitis of the femur. One of these was a woman aged 20, the other a girl of 5. Of the 12 successful cases one was a woman between 20 and 30; two were men 23 years of age; the rest were children of the ages of 15, 14 (two cases), 12 (two cases), 10 (two cases), 8, and 6, respec- tively. One was a case of renewed resection at the age of 12. The failure of the previous operation was found to be due to necrosis of a portion of the femur, and around the necrosed bone one of the old liga- tures was found twisted. One of the cases was in much danger of death from secondary haemorrhage, and another had many of the symp- toms of pyaemia. In one case (No. 9) "the union was not quite firm, several exfoliations of bone had occurred, and sinuses were not yet healed," at the date of the last report, ten months after operation. This was in the oldest patient of the series, who was in a very bad condition of health before the operation. In a few of the cases the union seemed fibrous only. Mr. Smith concludes thus: " I have now furnished you with a plain unvarnished report of our experience of excision of the knee-joint during the last twelve months, and I think the result of this experience teaches us, in the first place, that the mortality attending this operation is not so great as it is gene- rally supposed to be. Two fatal cases out of fourteen operations is as slight a mortality as can reasonably be expected after any severe surgi- cal proceeding.* Next to this slight mortality, I may mention that these cases teach us how very slight is the shock of the operation. In most of the cases there was scarcely any, and in the two or three where the shock was noticeable there had been ample cause for it, either in excessive bleeding or in a very difficult and prolonged operation. These cases also teach us another fact, about which there has been much mis- apprehension, viz. the absence of great exhaustion and depressing effect on the constitutional powers by the long-continued discharges which occur from the wounds during the after treatment. Now, in several of these cases the wounds healed in a great degree by the first intention, * I would observe upon this that the cases were almost all (10 out of the 14) in children, and the rest were quite young adults—all the operations beina; for chronic dis- ease of the knee. Yelthe mortality (i in 7) is exactly what Mr. Bryant's and my stat istics have given as that for pathological amputation of the thigh at all ages—thus bearing Out the conclusion which all experience tends to confirm, that excision is a more fatal operation than amputation, taking similar cases for the comparison.—T. II.