90 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. months from pain in the left hip, which had confined him to bed. Three months before, he had been salivated for a venereal affection, and almost directly afterwards the pain began. During this period he' had had several attacks of irritative fever, and was much reduced; the pain was so severe and constant as to prevent sleep. Blisters bad been ap- plied over the seat of pain, and many drugs, including iodide of potas- sium, used without benefit. There were none of the usual signs of hip-joint disease, but there was great pain in the sciatic nerve in the gluteal region, especially at one point, where there seemed to be deep- seated fluctuation, with fulness and induration in the course of the nerve. There was also tenderness on deep pressure in the iliac region. Inflammation and effusion at the sheath of the nerve were suspected. He had not previously been unhealthy, nor subject to sciatica or rheuma- tism. Fayrer made a puncture with a long narrow knife down to the induration; more than half an ounce of clear serum escaped. Imme- diate and almost perfect relief followed, and in a couple of days the man left Calcutta for his home. Fayrer says that this is the only case of the kind he has met with, but he should in future look with care for similar signs of effusion in the sheath of the nerve where there is sciatica. The affection may have been due either to the venereal disease or to the mercury which he took for it; but as there was no evidence of con- stitutional syphilis, and as iodide of potassium had no effect, he thinks that the case was one of pure inflammation (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 4, 1868). JS/eurotic Atrophy of the Face. Dr. Barwinkel relates a case of this rare affection. Atrophy was altogether limited to parts supplied by the infra-orbital nerve. In this region both the skin, the muscle, the fat, the bones, and even the teeth, were equally affected. No trace of loss of sensibility in the diseased nerves could be found. It could not, therefore, be supposed that the trunk of the infra-orbital nerve itself was diseased. There is only one organ which Lia in union with it alone, and not with the other two branches, namely, the spheno-palatine ganglion. Peripheral affection, which some authors assign as a cause of neurotic atrophy, really offers no explanation of such a case, for it does not account for the peculiar diffusion of the affection in the face, nor for the immunity of sensibility and motion. Romberg and Samuel attribute the atrophy in these cases to injury to trophic nerves. Other authors think the affection is one of vaso-motor nerves. It is not easy to explain the limitation of the disease on the theory that it depends on vascular changes, because, in that case, some parts which ought to be affected escape. The assumption of atrophy from active contraction of the vessels is not merely contradicted by the impossibility of such a spasm being kept up long enough, but by the fact that faradic irritation of the skin pro- duces redness. We seem limited to the theory of trophic nerve disease, which produces this affection, and cases like the above seem to show that these nerves originate in peculiar centres, namely, the gan- glia of the sensory nerves. "What the nature of the ganglion disease may be is, of course, impossible to be determined in the absence of dis-