REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 494 * ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 133, p. 119. description—every possible source of pollution of air and water was accumulated ; tho peculiar porous soil which underlay all this filth was, of course, continuously absorbing it; the water supply of the popula- tion was derived from wells, most of them sunk in that excrement- sodden sponge of earth. Some ten days before the outbreak of the fever, after an extraordinary period of draught, a sudden great rise in the water-level of the wells was observed, and this, of course, denoted a long-delayed scouring of that foulest soil into the water-supply of the now poisoned population. The filth which did so enormous an injury to human life existed under definite legal responsibility. The nuisance authority of the place (the Board of Guardians of the Witham Union) had most grossly neglected its duty, and after every opportunity had been afforded it of taking action, the Home Secretary was obliged to put in force the compulsory provisions (sections 16 and 40) of the " Sanitary Act, 1866." A sub-report on the distribution of phthisis as affected by dampness of soil, points out the dependence of this disease on this condition, and that when it is removed, as by drainage, the mortality from phthisis in a given district is much diminished. Dr. Thudichum also continues his researches into the chemical pathology of cholera, an inquiry which, interesting as it is, does not immediately concern us here. Disinfection. Dr. Heppe* publishes a paper containing a resume of the recent pro- gress of this branch of sanitary science. His memoir is of especial interest, as its deals with the rationale of the action of various disin- fectants. Dividing disinfectants into absorbents, chemical decomposers, and antiseptics—all of which may be used for the disinfection of air, water, and food, clothing and linen, excrements, drains, and sewers, and for the local disinfection of the body—Heppe admits that this division cannot in practice be strictly carried out. Under the head of absorbents and chemi- cal substances acting as disinfectants he places, porous bodies, such as charcoal, turf, peat, mould, and humus, all of which not only retain gases, but likewise liquids. As disinfection proper, i. e. the destruction of noxious matters, takes place by means of oxidation (and this is in great measure brought about by atmospheric ozone), chemical action always accompanies absorption, and hence the two processes cannot be separated. Quicklime has been much vaunted as an absorbent; applied to fresh faeces, it absorbs sulphuretted hydrogen, and forms with albu- minous matters a hard solid that does not readily undergo putrefaction, and is very absorbent of water. It is not, however, advantageous to apply lime to faecal matters which have already undergone decomposi- tion, for in this case ammonia is liberated abundantly. As chemical agents, chloride and sulphate of iron, chloride of man- ganese, and sulphate of zinc, are extensively used as disinfectants. The action of these is to fix ammonia, its derivatives, and sulphuretted hydrogen. Mineral acids are less useful, as they can only fix ammonia and