91 NEURALGIA. sections. We can only judge, from the history of most of the cases, that the spheno-palatine ganglion is the seat of the disease in such a case as the above. In other cases the G-asserian ganglion is probably atfected. It is likely enough tbat disease of the sphenoidal cells is at the bottom of the mischief in some cases (' Arch, der Heilk.,' 1867). Neuralgia. Dr. Anstie, in a treatise on neuralgia (c Eeynolds's System of Medi- cine,' ii, 68), speaks thus of the pathology of tbe disease. He observes that there is no sufficient evidence to establish an anatomical basis for an accurate pathology of the disease. At the same time, it is remarkable that the most complete case, as regards post-mortem exami- nation, that has ever been recorded, viz. a case of neuralgia of the fifth, of the most intractable kind, related by Romberg, afforded an example of the severest possible nerve pain coexisting with a state of atrophy of the nerve, so complete that its tissues were almost destroyed. It is imaginable that a not less real, but less advanced and obvious atrophic change, may be present in every case of neuralgia, even where dissec- tion has failed to reveal anything amiss. The following is the theory to which the author inclines. He thinks it most probable that in all cases of neuralgia there is either atrophy or a tendency to it in the posterior root of the painful nerve, or in the central grey matter with which it comes in closest connection. The following are the heads of the argument: 1. Neuralgia is eminently hereditary. It is constantly observed to prevail in particular families breaking out in successive generations and various individuals. It is even more important to notice that these neuralgic families are nearly always distinguished by a tendency to the severer neuroses—insanity, cerebral softening, paralysis, epilepsy, hypo- chondriasis, or an incontrollable tendency to alcoholic excesses; and very often, in the various members of the same family, all these affections, and also neuralgia, alternate. 2. Such hereditary tendencies in a race suggest a tendency to im- perfection in the congenital construction of the central nervous system, so that we may imagine that certain cells and fibres of this system are, in a large proportion of that race, built only to live with perfect life for a short time. The weak spot may be in one place in this person, in another place in that. 3. Given such a weak spot congenitally present, all hostile influ- ences will tell more heavily on it than on the rest of the organs. The depressing influence of cold applied to the surface, or a wound of trunk or branches of a nerve, or a Bevere shock, mental or physical, to the nervous centres generally, or of continued alcoholic excesses, may suffice to throw the imperfectly constructed cells into a state of positive disease which may end in decided atrophy. Even in the absence of any special external cause the depressing influence on the nervous centres produced by the great crises of puberty, child-bearing, and the involution of the female organs at the grand climacteric, and still more the partial failure