REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 480 ment plantations and the per-centage of crystallizalle sulphate of quinine that may he extracted from them. He states that more crystallizable sulphate is obtained from them than from good speci- mens of South American bark. The good results of the employment of Mr. Mclvor's plan of protecting the bark from sunlight, by means of a covering of moss during the growth of the tree, is dwelt upon ; and the extraction of the alkaloids from the green in preference to the dried bark is also recommended, since quinine is much more readily extracted from the green than from the dried bark. False Cinchona Bark of India.—Mr. Broughton* has recently ex- amined this drug, the bark of the Hymenodictyon excehum, formerly known as Cinchona excclsa, a tree very closely resembling in appearance the Cinchona Peruviana. lie finds the bitterness of the plant to be caused by the presence of esculin, the bitter principle of the horse- chestnut. It is singular that this latter tree should itself contain quinovine, the bitter principle of the leaves of the cinchonas, and also found in their bark. The false cinchona bark of India contains no quinine, and the expectations once entertained of its medicinal value have little support in fact. It loses its bitterness on drying, and this is accounted for thus—esculin by contact with organic substances in a state of change becomes slowly converted into a much less bitter neutral body, esculetin and glucose. Coniin.—Werigof has investigated the action of this alkaloid. He concludes that coniin acts most decidedly upon the spinal cord, and especially upon its motor part; and this is shown in frogs by paralytic symptoms appearing without a trace of convulsions; in mammals, when given in large doses, by the production of violent convulsions, and in small doses by paralysis of the extremities. The brain and nerves of sensation appear to be unaffected. In small doses coniin retards respi- ration, a consequence of the action on the spinal cord. Convulsions are infallible signs of impending death. No perceptible change is produced in the blood. Neither the beats of the heart nor those of the arteries are altered, but the heat of the surface of the body is diminished. Coniin does not appear to act on the pupil with constancy. Its action is much more powerful when injected into the veins than when injected subcutaneously. The secretion of urine is unaffected. Nothing of importance is observable on post-mortem section. Dr. John Harley, in his Gulstonian lectures,^ states that the action of conium is confined to the motor centres, and results in temporary de- pression of the functional activity of the corpora striata, the minor centres of motion, and the whole reflex function of the spinal cord. He compares the tranquillising effects which this drug exerts over these excited nervous centres with the influence of opium on an over-excited brain. If the patient is walking about after taking conium, the first effect noticed will be a heavy dragging sensation in the legs, with distinct * ' Pharm. Journ./ ix, p. 418. f 'Schmidt's Jahrb./ 135, p. 141; trans, from ' St. Petersburg Archiv. f. Gerichtl. Med.' X ' Pharm. Jonrn.,' ix, pp. 53, 471.