REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 116 of the pulmonary artery, arid that the bronchial capillaries are in nowise concerned, except there be also bronchitis. He believes that engorge- ment is not the earliest phenomenon, nor that crepitation is the first outward index of pneumonia. He holds that there is an antecedent stage, characterised by dryness and intense arterial congestion asso- ciated with a harsh, loud, respiratory murmur. Dr. Sieveking, in a lecture on pneumonia (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 22, 1868), gives some illustrations of various kinds of treatment. He points out that, although the physical signs may be the same, the cases may by no means be [identical. He illustrates, by appropriate cases—no treatment, treatment by bleeding, treatment by salines and alkalines, and treatment by stimulation. Gangrene of the lung, diaphragm, and spleen.—Dr. Hertz, of Greifs- wald (* Virchow's Archiv,' xl, p. 580), narrates the case of a girl, set. 25, who had been healthy to within 11 weeks of her admission into the Greifswald Infirmary, on the 9th of September. At this period the menses, after a wetting, stopped, and she complained of pain in the belly, with certain other symptoms. On admission the chest was dull at certain points, and there was some minute crepitation audible. Five days after admission there was slight swelling of the lower portion of the right thigh, this next day had extended to the whole limb. On the 17th there was much swelling and pain in the belly, her temperature rose, the pulse was 148, and the urine was highly albuminous. On the 18th there was slight oedema of the lung, and on the next morning she died. After death there were found many adhesions between the lungs and the walls of the chest. The left pleura contained much bloody tluid. On removing the lung the diaphragm gave way, and a quantity of extremely fetid fluid of a dark green colour rushed out of the abdo- men into the chest. The lung itself was completely disorganized, especially towards its base. The branch of the pulmonary artery going to the upper lobe was blocked by a thrombus, a smaller one was found in the branch going to the lower lobe. The right lung was less disorganized, but oedematous, and towards its base partially gangrenous. The arteries also contained thrombi. The abdomen showed signs of recent and remote peritonitis. From the orifice in the diaphragm, which was com- pletely gangrenous, extended on every side a thick greenish-yellow layer of exudation. The spleen was almost entirely gangrenous, and the liver fatty. The right common iliac vein contained a decolorised clot extending into the external and internal iliacs as far as the femoral. Similar clots existed in the deep femoral and saphena. These clots had doubtless furnished the embolic masses found in the lung, and which had caused its destruction. Dr. Banks, in the 'Dublin Quarterly Journal,' Feb. 1867, records an unusually interesting case of gangrene of the lung. The man was 34 years old, and had been very intemperate all his life. The history is very imperfect, but for two mouths he- had been spitting up puru- lent matter of an extremely offensive character, so as to induce nausea and vomiting in himself. A sudden aggravation of his symptoms induced him to come into hospital, which he entered in a dying state. His prostration was extreme, his respiration 72 a minute, his pulse feeble