DISEASES OP THE LITER. 1S1 dropsy was discovered to have the right kidney hydronephrotic. The only obstruction in this case also was a band of thickened peritoneum. It would seem that hydronephrosis is more common on the right side than on the left, and more frequent among women than among men. Before the Royal Med. aud Chir. Soc, May 12,1868, Dr. Cooper Rose read a remarkable case of cystic kidney disease simulating ovarian dropsy. A young lady first noticed a tumour in the ovarian region when about 13. She menstruated somewhat irregularly, and occa- sionally suffered from hematuria. The tumour gradually increased till the skin over it was thin. A trocar was introduced, and sanguineous fluid removed. This opening remained patent for the rest of her life, giving vent to some purulent fluid. Gradually the tumour became smaller, but she sank, when it was found that the left kidney had been totally destroyed by a large cyst, which had been taken for an ovarian tumour. Diseases of the Liver. M. Sistach publishes an interesting case of abscess of liver treated by puncture and subsequent injection. After pointing out the difficulty of diagnosing abscess from hydatid tumour, he goes on to say that, on consulting recent authorities, he has been surprised to find that this mode of treatment has been recommended for special cases. After quoting the remarks of various foreign writers, he adds, " For our- selves, in spite of the silence of authorities on the point, we believe that we are fully justified in laying down the following conclusion. "When the liver is high up, and has a reddened cutaneous surface, with superficial punctation, so that we are led to suspect an adhe- sion to the abdominal walls, puncture with the hydrocele trocar, and subsequent injection of iodine, may be adopted with great advantage. "We prefer the trocar to the bistoury, because it enables pus to be drawn off more rapidly and safely, and also because it allows of the injections being carried into the depth of the pus-forming tissues, which have been previously washed with warm water." The iodine, he thinks, stimulates the walls of the abscess, and prevents the formation of pus (' Rec. de Med. et de Chir.,' 103, 1868). Dr. Philipson records (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 30, 1867) a case of secondary abscess of the fiver. The patient had been ill three weeks. He was jaundiced, his tongue furred, bowels constipated, and urine tinged with bile. There was pain in the right hypochondrium, and the liver dulness increased. Three days after admission he had a rigor and became dilirious, and died three days after. The liver was filled with numerous small collections of pus, arranged along the line of the vena porta. On examining the spleen the source of the mischief was discovered, as it was converted into a cavity filled with fetid pus. Professor Koster, of Utrecht (' Centralblatt f. Med. Wissen.,' June 11, 1868) writes on his experiments as to inflammation in the liver. These experiments confirm those of Cohnheim. The liver was irri- tated in a variety of ways. Two days after, the serous covering of the liver was swollen, dull, and, on transverse section, showed a number of