EE PORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 ' Medical Kepertory' published in that city (May, 1868), some account of one of these unusual and interesting cases. The patient was an Irishman, at 65, and was admitted into hospital for chronic rheuma- tism. No heart mischief was discoverable, and his general health was good. About the middle of January, i860, he injured his right thumb, aad a few days after the bone necrosed and had to be removed. Two days after the operation he complained of pain in the chest and head. Next morning his skin was hot, his tongue furred, his pulse rapid, lie had a burning pain in his chest, and his breathing was difficult. The action of the heart was regular, but peculiarly soft. He gradually got worse, and two days after he became, during the night, extremely rest- less, his lips became blue, his face and neck turgid, and the dyspnoea was urgent. He sank gradually; all this time the heart's action was regular and no abnormal sound could be detected. Seven hours after death, whilst the body was still slightly warm, the post-mortem examination was made. The pericardium was very dark and distended with a fetid gas, which escaped when the cavity was opened. The cavity contained about 2 oz. of a dark-coloured fetid fluid, of the consistence of treacle. The heart was dark, almost black, in the right auricle. On attempting to raise it the fingers penetrated its tissue. The colour, which was mostly black or greenish-black, became lighter near the apex. The wall of the auricle was extremely fragile, as if it would fall to pieces. The whole tissue of the right side was softer than natural. The remaining portions of the heart were quite healthy. Dr. Young insists on the gangrenous odour as strong evidence in the proof of his notion as to this being true gangrene. Unfortunately we have no description of the microscopic appearances. Bricheteau publishes in ' 1'Union Medicale,' i, 1867, p. 101, a very interesting case of latent cancer of the heart and ovaries. The patient, a girl, set. 24, came into La Charite on the 21st Nov. 1866, complaining of a slight cold. On examination there was found slight pleuro-pneu- monia of the left lung, which, however, appeared to be in the way of healing. She had always menstruated regularly; for the last three months not quite as abundantly as before. When her chest was examined she directed attention to a swelling in the abdomen on the right side; with the period of its first appearance she was unacquainted. This tumour was hard and of irregular shape and consistence; it was readily movable, and was not connected with the uterus. It was painful on pressure ; its size that of a foetal head. She had menstruated live days before entering the hospital. She went on all right for eight days, when suddenly her pulse rose to 156 and 160; the sphygrnographic tracing showing a series of curves without any line of ascent. Still the heart sounds were normal, and the patient only complained of a feeling of weakness and oppression. She had no palpitation. On the morning of Dec. 6 she seemed better ; her pulse had fallen to 140. Two hours after the visit she was trying to reach a morsel of sugar from the stand by her bedside when she fell back and expired. On opening the thorax many pleuritic adhesions were discovered. The pericardium coutained a little serum, and the enlarged heart rested in it perpendicularly. The left ventricle was yellowish in colour and presented numerous irregu-