DIGESTION. 9 b and F. The broad band is caused by the presence of a blue colouring matter. Koschlakoff and Bogomoloff* state that it is well known that the resinoid acids of the bile give a beautiful red colour with sulphuric acid and sugar (Pettenkofer's reaction). Solutions of albumen give the same colour with the same reagents. Hitherto it has been impossible to dis- tinguish between the two. They have overcome this difficulty by examin- ing the solutions spectroscopically. The biliary solution treated with sulphuric acid and sugar, and moderately concentrated, exhibits four absorption striae—i, the strongest and best defined, at E; 2, in F; 3, between D and E, but nearer F; and 4, close to D. Secondly, the red- dened biliary solution is dichrotic. By reflected light it is green, by transmitted light cherry-red. The fluid must not be too concentrated, and may be diluted with acetic acid. The reactions of albumen, when treated with S03 and sugar, are, that its solutions present only one ab- sorption stria between E and F, and that it has no dichroism. The albu- men in Bright's urine gives no colour with S08 and sugar, unless first prepared with nitric acid or by boiling. Thudichumf has made researches on the colouring matter of the bile. He obtained bilirubin, a crystallizable substance, having a composition €9H9NQ2, and biliverdin, a non-crystallizable substance. From the latter he obtained bilipurpin and biliflavin. Lymphatics.—The most interesting observations that have been made in regard to the lymphatics are probably those of Schweigger-Seidel and Dogiel,J who endeavour to show that in frogs, lizards, and blind- worms, the great serous cavities, as, for example, the pleurae and peri- toneal cavities, are to be regarded as merely enlargements or dilatations of the lymphatics, with which they communicate freely by openings between the epithelial cells lining their interior. The average size of the openings is about i-8ooth of an inch, and their usual distance from one another is about i-2ooth of an inch. On the internal surface of the cavity, and close to the openings, the epithelial cells were generally ciliated. Dybkowsky § describes the distribution of the lymphatics of the pleura in the dog. In the costal pleura they are only found over the intercostal spaces, and not over the ribs, and this, he thinks, is connected with the fact that absorption takes place as a result of the opposed action of the elasticity of the lungs and the contraction of the intercostals, by which the open mouths of the lymphatics, similar to those above described by Schweigger-Seidel and L>ogiel, are distended, and thus permit the entrance of particles of appreciable size, as those of prussian blue or car- mine, when injected into the cavities. Af'onassiew || doubts the statements of the last-named observers re- specting the presence of free openings, and considers that the lymphatics commence in the delicate network formed by the processes given off by the connective-tissue-corpuscles. The observations of Wharton Jones ('Proceed, of the Roy. Soc.,' April, 1868) on the movements of the * ' Centralblatt,' 1868, Aug. 1, p. 529. t ' Journ. f. pract. Chemie,' civ, 193, 222. X 'Arbeit, aus der Physiolog. Anstalt zu Leipzig,' 1867, p. 68. § 'Ludwig's Arbeiten aus der Physiol. Anstalt zu Leipzig,' 1867, p. 40. t| 'Virchow's Arcbiv,' July, 1868.