OBSTETRIC OPERATIONS —INSTRUMENTS. 407 easy and safe. He gives successful cases. (The reporter thinks it in- cumbent not to omit to call attention to the fact that many cases of sudden death have followed analogous proceedings for inducing labour.) Dr. Barnes ('St. George's Hospital Reports,' i858) describes and illustrates by cases a plau of inducing and completing labour at a pre- determined hour, so as to secure greater safety to mother and child. He points out that in premature labour two obstacles have to be con- tended against, the immature development of the uterus implies greater resistance of the cervix and less contractile power in the body of the uterus; and hence, he shows, that art is likely to be required to dilate the cervix, and to supplement the defective uterine force. The water- dilators effect the first, and turning or the forceps the second. The whole is completed in twenty-four hours. Induction of labour was performed in twenty-three cases at the Milan Hospital in 1867, and it is remarkable, as evincing the care with which the patients are examined, that thirteeu of these were primiparte. In twenty cases the indication was pelvic contraction. The means em- ployed were simple puncture of the membranes, sponge-tents, laminaria, and the elastic syringe. Fourteen children were born alive. The proportion of stillborn children, in labours of all kinds, was about 8 per cent., which exceeds that which prevails in England ('Annal. Univ.,' 1868). Instruments. Gynecological.—An expanding speculum and self-retaining tenaculum, E. Ellis (' Obst. Trans.,' ix). Ecraseur with single steel wire, Dr. Meadows (loc. cit.). Carbolized sponge-tents, R. Ellis and J. H. Aveling (loc. cit.). New uterine sound, with metroscope attached, Meadows (loc. cit.) A modification of Hodge's pessary for relief of anteversion, G. Hewitt (loc. cit.). Another modification for retro- flexion, by Dr. Greenhalgh' ('Obst. Trans.,' x). Anew uterine sound is proposed by Dr. Sappolini ('Annal. Hniv.,' 1868). He makes it more flexible, and calls it hysterolygismus, from \vyiop.6s (flexion). Dr. Easeh ('Obs. Trans.,' x) describes a vaginal drainer for the purpose of irrigating the vagina and uterus. Dr. "Wiltshire describes (ibid.) a new utero-vaginal douche. Drs. Meadows and Sansom describe (ibid.) new forms of medicated pessaries. Dr. John Murray describes (loc. cit.) a very convenient pocket chloroform-inhaler. _ Obstetrical.—A perforator, Dr. Cleveland ('Obst. Trans.,' ix). A tire-tete, or combined perforator and extractor (loc. cit.). A drill- crotchet, Dr. Eastlake (loc. cit.). On the forceps, Dr. Dieterich ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1868). Dr. Byford, of Chicago, describes (' Obst. Trans.,' x) a new pelvimeter. The operation for torn perinceum is discussed (' Deutsch. Klinik,' 186j) by Prof. C. 0. "Weber. His view of the nature of the injury and of the operation differs from that in vogue. Dr. Grenser relates (' Mon. f. Geb.,' 1867) that out of 35 lacerations treated by him, immediate application of one, two, or three sutures, all healed excepting two.