REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 11. cancer of liver and omentum. There was no history of syphilis, but Dr. "Wilks ordered him a few grains of the iodide and bromide of potas- sium. In a couple of months the general symptoms were very much better, but there was a hard gland in the neck, and another lump in the sternum. Perseverance in the use of $-%r. doses of iodide reduced the liver in size, removed the induration of the glands, and ultimately quite restored the patient to health. Mr. W. Smith reports a case of melancholia apparently caused by syphilis (' British Med. Journal,' 393, 1868). The patient, who was a young labourer, was silent and self-absorbed, besides having some delu- sions. Examination of his body discovered a syphilitic roseolate erup- tion, with a few scattered scaly patches. Iodide of potassium, combined with a mild mercurial, was at once administered. In fourteen days there was improvement, and in a month complete cure. Treatment of Syphilis. Dr. G-. Lewin writes a most interesting and elaborate paper ('Ann. der Berlin Charite,' xiv, 1868) on the treatment of syphilis by the hypodermic injection of corrosive sublimate. He injects at indifferent places, selecting the most convenient site for the operation. He employs a solution in which the dose (i-8th gr.) is contained in about 15 minims ; if more than this dose is required to be injected at once, it must be done at two places. If the skiu be very sensitive, i-8th to T-ioth gr. of acetate of morphia, with a little glycerine, may be added to the injection. The doses of bichloride used varied between i-8th and i-4th of a gr. The best time for injection is the forenoon; if time presses, however, it may be done between 3 and 4 p.m.; and the author has even occa- sionally made three injections in one day—morning,noon, and night; it should not be done too late, lest the pain should prevent sleep. The patient should wear woollen underclothes ; on warm days lie may go out. It is needful to wash the mouth and teeth sedulously and carefully, in order to hinder salivation as much as possible; and Lewin generally gives about 10 grs. of chlorate of potash three or four times daily during the treatment. Neither mental nor physical toil must be undergone, although the patient may engage in light occupations. The only incon- venient consequences of the injections recorded by Lewin which appear to deserve attention are a few examples of mercurial poisoning. Doses of i to l gr. in women, and of $ gr. in men, provoked gastric irritation and pain, a bad taste in the mouth, and insomnia. Doses of f gr. in women, and |to 1 gr. in men, caused severer gastric irritation, with vomiting, sharp colic, tenesmus, bloody diarrhoea, giddiness, fainting, and coma. The pulse, at first hurried, sunk to 60 and 40 per minute. These symptoms were successfully treated with opium, quinine, wine and ether. 500 patients were treated on these principles ; a good many of these, however, were also treated with iodide of potassium, or had a previous course of sarsaparilla, and, as above mentioned, the majority took chlo- rate of potash. Of those treated with the injections of bichloride only, it was found that, on the average, 3 grs. of the remedy, given at sixteen