REPORT ON SURGERY. the pressure at 4 p.m. ; it was kept up for twenty-six hours, viz. until 6 p.m. on the 30th—no pulsation having been detected for twenty-five hours. There was no distress or constitutional disturbance, and the tumour was hard and small like a racket ball and without pulsation. He was directed to maintain the limb in a semi-flexed position for some days, and to keep as quiet as possible. On examining the case on Feb. 15, the aneurism was found to be completely cured, and the col- lateral circulation effected. The limb is in every respect equal to the other, and the tumour has been reduced from the size of a small orange to that of a walnut, and is quite hard, so that the case may be looked upon as successful. Treatment of aneurism by complete arrest of the circulation.—In the 'British Medical Journal,5 Oct. 1867, will be found the report of a most interesting discussion which took place at the Surgical Section of the British Medical Association at Dublin, on the presentation of two papers, by Dr. Mapother, of Dublin, and Dr. Murray, of Newcastle- on-Tyne, on the rapid cure of aneurism by completely arresting the current through the sac by means of pressure. Dr. Mapother refers shortly to two cases, one of ilio-femoral aneurism, reported in our last Eetrospect, p. 306; and the other of popliteal aneurism, cured (after three unsuccessful attempts without chloroform) by complete com- pression of the femoral under chloroform for 97 hours, the flow of blood out of the sac being impeded by tight bandaging and elevation of the leg, distal pressure on the popliteal not being possible. Dr. Mapother adheres to his views stated in our fprevious Eetrospect, viz. that the blood should be detained in the sac as completely as possible by com- plete compression of the artery above and below it, holding that the cure is effected by the coagulation of the blood en masse, and not by laminated coagulation. Dr. Murray supports the same view, and insists on the necessity of excluding every, even the slightest, current of blood from the sac. When this is done cure may be obtained in so short a space of time as to prove conclusively that it could not have been effected by lamination of fibrine. "At Newcastle a case of aneurism of the abdominal aorta underwent the process of cure in three quarters of an hour; and, in another case at Sunderland, under Dr. Heath's care, consolidation was distinctly observed to occur within twenty minutes. In the Newcastle case un- successful efforts had been made for four hours ; and, at the end of that time, the aneurism remained unchanged. As neither increase of solidity, diminished pulsation, nor decrease in size, could be detected, I determined to make a final effort. The patient being fully under the influence of chloroform, I reapplied the tourniquet, and held it firmly and securely over the aorta so as to obliterate every trace of pulsation. By a prolonged effort, three fourths of an hour passed without a single slip of the instrument. It was then removed, and the aneurism had ceased to pulsate. A slight movement was perceptible for some time afterwards ; this being an impulse communicated from the pulsation of the aorta above it.