AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. 223 profuse vomiting of blood, the result of the bone perforating the aorta during a slight exertion. Amputation at the knee-joint.—In the'Brit. Med. Journal,' Jan. 5, 1867, Mr. Longmore refers to the experience of army surgeons in the Crimean and American wars as to this operation. With reference to the Crimean war, Mr. Longmore says the number of cases in which ampu- tation at the knee-joint was performed hi the British army was so limited that hardly any statistical deductions can be made from their results. The columns in the ' Beturns of Amputations,' and their ratios of mortality in the official report, show there were only 6 primary am- putations at the knee, of which 3 proved fatal or 50 per cent.; and 1 secondary, which proved fatal, or 100 per cent. With such small numbers, statistics are of little use. Nothing could better prove this than the circumstance that, if this secondary case had survived, the recoveries after secondary operations would have appeared as 100 per cent, in the official return. In the French army amputation at the knee was resorted to much more frequently than in the English army. Dr. Chenu, of the French military medical service (who undertook, and who has admirably exe- cuted, the herculean task of compiling the statistics of upwards of 400,000 admissions into the French hospitals during the Crimean war), lias traced the results of 69 amputations of the knee-joint in a special table. Of these he shows that 63 proved fatal; a ratio of mortality of 91 per cent. Dr. Legouest, in his ' Traite de Chirurgie d'Armee,' p. 755, refers to 78 cases of amputation at the knee-joint in the French army during the Crimean war '; but Dr. Chenu's returns have been so carefully elaborated that his numbers are doubtless the more correct. It is of no importance, however, as regards statistical reference, which number is right; for in each the ratio of mortality is the same. Dr. Legouest's table records that, of the 78 cases, 71 died, showing there- fore a mortality of 91 per cent., the same as Dr. Chenu. Hence, Dr. Legouest affirms, amputation at the knee should be abandoned, and amputation of the thigh employed instead. The statistics of the American war are then quoted, as they are to be found on p. 224 of our former Betrospect, showing a per-centage of mortality in primary operations of only 34*9 per cent, out of 49 cases, and in secondary operations 64 known deaths out of 132 cases, some of which were incomplete. Mr. Longmore's general conclusions about this amputation are thus expressed:—" I have a very strong hope that in any future war ampu- tation at the knee-joint will be performed more frequently than it has hitherto been performed by surgeons in our own army, and with results at least as favorable as those recorded in the United States army reports. Mr. Syme has recently pointed out so fully the safety and the excellent results of Mr. Carden's single skin-flap amputation at the knee, and the operation avoids so many of the difficulties and untoward circumstances which attend the ordinary mode of performing the ope- ration, especially under the conditions of campaigning, that 1 trust Mr. Carden's operation will not be forgotten in our future field surgery.