REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4-86 mcraia of the upper lobe in children. This difficulty is increased by the different course which lobar pneumonia of* the upper lobe runs in children as compared with adults. The course is slow; the exudation is much more slowly deposited, and much more slowly removed. In the adult apex-pneumonia is almost constantly due to tubercle, but not so in children. The lung may quite clear itself. Of some diagnostic value is the presence of tubercle in the bronchial glands. These glands become the seat of deposit in five sixths of the cases of lung-tubercle. The local evidence is dulness at the first bone of the sternum, and a strongly marked snoring or blowing sound during expiration at the bifur- cation of the trachea. In treatment of phthisis Dr. Buchanan thinks alkalies and salines act beneficially by improving the dyspeptic state. The citrate of potash he especially commends. If cod-liver oil and tonics are given before the digestion is attended to, mischief is often done. As to " climate," the results of Dr. Buchanan's researches are well known. These establish that in low-lying water-logged soils phthisis is far more fatal. The Alimentary Canal. In a series of clinical contributions Dr. J. Bierbaum (' Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868) describes an epidemic of glossitis. The disease was marked by local or partial swelling of the tongue at the onset, a prick- ing, burning pain, bright or dark red colour, increased salivation, thick unintelligible speech, dyspnoea, and swelling of the submaxillary glands. The febrile reaction was more frequently of erethetic than of synochal character. It ran an acute course. Helminthiasis.—Bouchut, discussing the so-called "worm attacks" in children (ib., 1868), says the fact is not to be set aside. He relates cases. Against thread-worms he gives santonine ; for a child two years old ten centigrammes for a dose, in honey or jelly. Henoch (' Beitrage,' 1868) gives another example of the convection of ascarides from one patient to another. Ascarides, he says, cause little disturbance so long as they are confined to the small intestine; but when they get into the colon, colics, headache, faintings, and vomiting may occur. Typhlitis stercoralis is the title of a memoir by J. Bierbaum (' Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868). It is, he insists, erroneously called typhlitis. He relates several cases. The physiological character of the disease is in- dicated by vomiting, obstinate constipation, colic pains, distension of the abdomen, and by a tumour forming in the right hypogastric region. The anatomical character consists in acute inflammation of the intesti- nal mucous membrane of the caecum and ascending colon. The dia- gnosis is established by minute attention to the peculiarities of the disease, so as to exclude all other kinds of intestinal obstruction. The disease does not always remain simple, but peritonitis or inflammation of the cellular tissue uniting the ascending colon with the fascia lata is added. It occurs but rarely in any period of childhood, and scarcely ever in the earliest period. The etiology is still doubtful. It is very dangerous, owing to extension of inflammation and perforation of the abdominal wall. Early treatment may be successful. Purgatives,