CHOLERA. 4b7 coast of the Caspian Sea. It is thence that three epidemics have pene- trated Europe, or nearly so, by terrestrial agencies ; the first to become extinguished,in 1S23, at Astrachan, on the Caspian Sea; the two others to be propagated. When once cholera has reached Recht, an impor- tant commercial town, it has been constantly observed, in the three in- stances we are speaking of, to pass along the shore of the Caspian Sea, reach the maritime town of Lenkoran, and then invade the delta of Kour and the town of Salian, situated near the mouth of this river. Having arrived at this point, the two most recent epidemics have bifurcated; on the one side passing up the valley of Kour, invading the Trans- caucasian provinces, and traversing them to the Black Sea; on the other, keeping the direction of the shore towards the north, gaining Bakou, attacking Astrachan, and from thence passing into Europe. The averted attack of 1823 took this latter course alone. This, then, is the only dangerous route for the importation of cholera into Europe by land. In all the other directions in which the disease radiates from Persia it is stopped by the natural barriers of the country. The epi- demic of 1865 reached us by a new and much shorter way, by the maritime route of the Eed Sea. Since cholera is abundantly exported from India by sea, those countries which are most directly in communi- cation with India are subject to frequent visitations of the disease, whilst more distant countries are exposed in proportion to their remote- ness and the facilities of communication between them and India. Formerly, when pilgrims to Mecca returned to Egypt by caravans, the cholera which they might have contracted in Mecca died out before they reached Egypt; but now, when the facilities offered by steam navigation induce pilgrims to adopt the quicker sea route, the disease is more readily imported into Egypt. It was in this way that the epidemic of 1865 reached that country and thence passed into Europe. Seeing, then, that the most available route for the importation of cholera is by the Eed Sea, the conference came to the conclusion that strict measures of quarantine, sanitary supervision of vessels at the straits of Bab-el-Mandeb, and the establishment of an international authority charged with the carrying out of these measures on the island of Perim, which commands these straits, would be the surest means of checking the progress of the disease. Since the sitting of the conference an exploration of the straits and adjacent coasts by the Ottoman Govern- ment has confirmed this view. Political considerations prevented the conference from adopting views which they would have otherwise done, but they advise the quarantine stations to be placed on the Arabian side of the Eed Sea, and take especial care to protect Suez as much as possible from the possibility of infection. It was laid down by the conference as a fundamental rule that, in the event of an outbreak of cholera among the pilgrims, all maritime communication ought to be suspended between the Arabian and Egyptian sea-ports ; but out of deference to the Ottoman Government this rule was relaxed, and pilgrims are to embark for El-Wesch, a place on the north of the Arabian K,ed Sea coast, and there to undergo quarantine before land- ing in Egypt. In the event of an outbreak of cholera in Egypt the conference, after much animated debating, resolved that it will bo