131 PNEUMOTHORAX. be less so than before its use; pastry, fat meat, rich stuffing and the like, should be avoided, and cream should not be used in excess. Even new- milk may not be borne well. Many find malt liquors along with the oil too heavy. The diet should therefore be plain and nutritious, con- sisting of bread, fresh meat, poultry, game, a fair proportion of vegetables, and a little fruit; the quantity of liquid with the earlier meals should be moderate. Should a bilious attack, with nausea, headache, furred tongue, and high-coloured urine, come on, the oil is to be stopped, the diet lightened, a little blue pill or calomel given every other day along with an effervescent saline two or three times a day. This ordinarily speedily mends matters, but the oil should be given when first resumed in small doses. In all cases the bowels should be well attended to. Dr. Williams believes that, although cod-liver oil is the great remedy, other things may do some good in consumption, especially iodine and nitric acid, as well as in certain cases the hypophosphites. So, also, are certain substances when inhaled, as carbolic acid, iodine, chloroform, turpentine, and hemlock. But than all these change of air is far more important; a warm dry air is to be selected. Dr. B. Foster ('British Medical Journal,' Aug. 8, 1868) reports in favour of using ether along with cod-liver oil as well as separately in the treatment of phthisis. This he does with the intention of stimu- lating the pancreas, Claude-Bernard having shown that ether was useful in this way. This secretion, according to Dr. Foster, is at fault in phthisis, and as ether is the best means for stimulating its secretory gland he gives this, with, he says, very good results. The weight of the patients increased in a majority of instances under the use of the ether, especially when given along with the cod-liver oil. Gintrac, of Bordeaux, narrates in the ' Journ. de Bourd.,' Aug. 1867, p. 422, a case of so-called syphilitic phthisis; he gives the following diagnostics -.—Syphilitic gummata generally occur in one lung only, and. generally in the lower portion of the upper lobes; they remain closely circumscribed, they give rise to no haemoptysis, and do not cause wasting or fever. In this Gintrac is not borne out by other observers. Pneumothorax. At a meeting of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, held April 28, 1868, Dr. Douglas Powell read a paper on "Tubercular Pneumothorax." He maintained that in phthisis there was a constant tendency to this complication, which, however, was usually obviated by the adhesions produced by pleurisy. The opening is generally the result of the breaking down of tubercular material, but sometimes also would seem to be found as a sinus or from dead bone. The dyspnoea of pneumothorax resembles cardiac rather than pulmonary dyspnoea. The most important physical signs are hyper-resonance and displacement of the heart to the unaffected Bide. The air pressure on the lung acts aa a certain impediment to the passage of the blood through its tissues. In fact, death may follow from this cause or from exhaustion. Pyopneumothorax without perforation.—Boisseau, Professor at the Val de Grace, publishes in the'Archives GeneVales do Mddecine' for July, 1867, and succeeding months, a series of interesting observations