DISORDERS OF REFRACTION. 3G7 patches are very large, or when they affect the central parts of the retina. In the retinitis of albuminuria or of diabetes there will be no colour- blindness until the disease has reached an advanced stage, so as to involve the external layers of the retina and the macula lutea. In syphilitic retinitis or neuritis, with or without choroiditis, the general impairment of sight is attended by loss of perception of green, and sometimes of red. In choroidal atrophy disturbance of chromatic function does not exist unless the layer contiguous to the retina, in the region of the macula, be disorganized. In atrophy of the nerve the chromatic function suffers from the outset, especially with regard to red and green. The same occurs in amblyopia potatorum, with the difference that in the former affection the defect is permanent, while in the latter it varies from day to day, and even from hour to hour. M. Galezowski has added to bis book a chromatic scale and test types, founded on the scale of M. Chevreul, and affording the means of testing the colour functions with exactness. Prof. Quaglino* describes the case of a Turin banker, who had an attack of apoplexy in his 54th year. After some days he recovered consciousness, but was completely blind and paralysed on the left side. The hemiplegia disappeared gradually, and the sight was restored so far that, when seen by the author a year after the attack, he could read the smallest characters, and, to use his own words, could see the sparrows on the tops of the trees. His vision was, however, very im- perfect for all objects situated on his left, the images of which would fall on the right side of either retina, and he had totally lost all per- ception of colour. All faces appeared to him pale and blanched, and he could distinguish nothing but white and black. He had also entirely lost the power of recalling the appearances of things or people by any effort of the mind. (d) Ophthalmoscopy.—Refraction and Accommodation. Dr. Giraud-Teulonf has applied Mr. Laurence's idea of a meniscus, to be at once the reflector and the condensing lens of an ophthalmo- scope, to the construction of a fixed instrument that has many advan- tages of cheapness and simplicity. The meniscus is mounted at the end of a tube nearest to the patient, and its inverted image formed within the tube may be regarded either with the naked eye or with the aid of the common binocular ophthalmoscope. Attempts to magnify the image have been unsuccessful, from its possessing depth as well as superficies, so that the portions out of focus obscure the rest. Dr. Gustav Reyher^ recommends diffuse daylight for ophthalmoscopic examination. Zehender§ points out the danger of accidentally using * ' Giornale rl'OftalmoIogia Italiano,' 1867. t 'Annales d'Oculistique/ 1867; ' Ophthalmic Review,' iii, p. 247. % ' Centralhlatt. f. d. Med. Wissenscb.,' 1858. § 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1868.