REPORT ON PUBLIC 11KALTH. of the atmosphere, and individual predisposition. The peculiar con- dition of the soil requisite is this—it must he porous, and permeahle to air and water. It must possess a particular degree of humectation, depending upon the position of the subsoil-water to the surface. It must be charged with organic, especially excrementitious, matter. A soil thus circumstanced he believes to be the essential condition for the development of epidemic cholera. It is the nidus in which, or the condition in which, the cholera poison once finding admission to it, undergoes that development which is necessary for its rapid dissemination among the people living upon the soil. This condition of soil fosters, not developes, the cholera poison. The latter must come from without, and finds its way into the soil, mainly, by means of the evacuations of those sick of the disease. And the reception is not alone sufficient to its multiplication and further propagation. It is only in a certain state of humectation of the soil that this aptitude to multiplica- tion and propagation occurs; and this state has a definite relation to the recession of tbe subsoil-water after it has approached unusually near to the surface.* The tenth report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council is very instructive, containing, as it does, reports on the outbreaks of enteric (typhoid) fever in Winterton, in Guildford, and in Terling in 1867. Winterton, in Lincolnshire, is a little town having a population of about 1800 persons. It had for the last seven years been almost always suffering more or less from the presence of enteric fever, and for the last two or three years the disease had been of great local import- ance. Sometimes it was more in one part of the town, sometimes more in another. In 1865-6 it particularly attacked a group of 35 houses at the west end of the town ; and here, within the twelve months, out of 145 inhabitants, 100 contracted the fever, and 17 died of it; or, in other words, those 145 inhabitants suffered in that year from the one preventible disease as many deaths as a population seven times as great, in fair sanitary circumstances, is expected to suffer from all diseases and accidents put together. Early in 1867 enteric fever wTas again prevailing in large proportions in "Winterton, but chiefly iu another part of the town ; and when Dr. Thome was there in April there had been 55 new cases, and among them already 6 deaths. The cause of all this terrible sickness and mortality was evident at a glance. It was the merest question of filth. " The epidemic prevalence of fever in Winter- ton," he wrote, "is undoubtedly to be ascribed to the disgraceful state of the privies, cesspools, ashpits, and wells Given, the existence of typhoid fever in a town, it is hardly possible to conceive conditions more favorable for its spread than those existing at "Winterton." The conditions described are such as probably even the swine in the town may have suffered from; and it deserves notice that the scene of this disgraceful sanitary neglect was a town which four years previously had adopted the " Local Government Act." The epidemic of enteric fever at Guildford was peculiarly instructive. * Vide Mr. Radcliffe's " Report 011 Cholera," in ' Ninlh Report of Med. Officer of Priw Council.'