200 HEPOUT ON SURGERY. melancholy, to observo that, whenever all or nearly all the beds con- tained cases with open sores, these grievous complications were pretty sure to show themselves; so that I came to welcome simple fractures, though in themselves of little interest either for myself or the students, because their presence diminished the proportion of open sores among the patients. But since the antiseptic treatment has been Drought into full operation, and wounds and abscesses no longer poison the atmo- sphere with putrid exhalations, my wards, though in other respects under precisely the same circumstances as before, have completely changed their character; so that during the last nine months not a single instance of pyaemia, hospital gangrene, or erysipelas, has occurred in them. " As there appears to be no doubt regarding the cause of this change, the importance of the fact can hardly be exaggerated." In another contribution on the same subject (' Lancet,' Sept. 30, 1867) Mr. Lister expresses himself in the following terms: " In suppurations of the vertebrae or of the joints the results of this system are such as I ventured with trembling hope to anticipate, patient perseverance being rewarded by a spontaneous cure in cases where ex- cision, amputation, or death, must have resulted from any other known Bystem of treatment. In short, the element of incurability has been eliminated from caries." Mr. Lister has also given numerous cases in detail to illustrate the advantages which, in his practice, have attended this method of treat- ment. For these cases we must refer the reader to the ' Lancet' for March 16, 23, 30, 1867, and several other papers in that and other journals near the same date. Mr. Syme has also published, in the ' Brit. Med. Journal' for June 4, 1868, a series of cases, consisting of an operation for parotid tu- mour, wound of the knee-joint, two compound fractures, psoas and mammary abscess, to show the benefit derived from this treatment. • Prof. Pirrie calls attention to the good effects of carbolic acid ap- plied as a dressing to burns. He used a liniment of one part of the acid to six parts of oil, applied on two folds of lint, and covered over with tinfoil. In a case of scald, partly of the first and partly of the second degree, in which this treatment was adopted, the pain rapidly subsided, and the sore healed without any suppuration. The same method may also be used to blistered surfaces. (' Lancet,' Nov. 9, 1867.) Mr. Tyrell, of the Mater Misericordiae Hospital at Dublin, has pub- lished three cases in the 'Brit. Med. Journal,' Jan. 8, 1868, as exam- ples of the success of this treatment, which he follows in dressing most wounds and granulating surfaces. In the 'Lancet,' i, 1868, p. 586, Mr. Eyley, of New Zealand, refers to his experience of carbolic acid, applied on Lister's plan, in compound fracture (two cases), abscess (one case), and superficial burns, in which he has had good success. On the other hand, in the 'Lancet,' Nov. 2, 1867, Sir J. Simpson speaks in terms of unmitigated condemnation of the practice, which he regards as by no means original, referring to a work by Dr. Lemaire,