REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUUGERY. others iu the dark and narrow streets of the old town. In the former the proportion of myopes was from r8 to 66 per cent.; in the latter, from 7'4 to xyi. The author insists, therefore, upon the importance of a good site. He determines the proper size and number of the windows with reference to the number of pupils that the room is intended to contain. A room for twenty pupils should have a window eight or nine feet high by five feet wide. While spectacles which completely correct the myopia are not only useful as aids to the visual function, but may even check the progress of the affection, so nothing is more injurious than the use of spectacles not suited to the degree of the myopia. The choice of glasses is there- fore a matter of great importance, and requires to be judiciously con- trolled. M. Cohn found that among 107 pupils who wore spectacles, 99 had chosen them for themselves, and only the remaining 8 had sought medical advice upon the point. Of the spectacles, 26 neutra- lized the myopia of the wearer, 41 were too weak, and 40 were too strong. Such, then, are the causes to which the author attributes the excessive prevalence of myopia among scholars. They deserve the attention of readers on account of the gravity of an affection that, contrary to the prevailing belief, tends to increase rather than to decrease, and that may occasion loss of sight by staphyloma and its attendant atrophy. M. Cohn found 239 hypermetropes, of whom 152 were boys, and 87 girls. The degree varied from to ■s175. In the village schools the mean degree was fa; in the primary schools of the town, ; in the middle schools, -gL; in the upper girls' schools, ^g-j ^ the normal schools, -gJg-; and in the gymnasia, The age and length of pupilage exercise no influence upon the fre- quency of hypermetropia, but they do influence the degree. It was only among the upper classes that M. Cohn found the higher degrees. We may conceive that sustained efforts would fatigue the muscle of accommodation, and tend to render manifest the latent portion of the defect. Nine hypermetropes were wearing convex spectacles. It is well known that hypermetropia is often combined with con- vergent squint. M. Cohn found 158 instances of the combination, that is, about 60 per cent, of the hypermetropes, and 1*5 per cent, of all the pupils. The squint affected the right eye in 104, the left in 31 cases. It was periodic in 44, concomitant in 114. The medium degrees of hypermetropia were most frequently associated with squint. They were— Twenty-three children were astigmatic, or about 3 -1 per cent, of the ametropes.' The cases were— 38-4 strab. conv. T5 " 5 Myopic astigmatism Hypermetropic Mixed Irregular 8 4 4 Total *3