208 KEPOltT ON SUItGISUY. hours after torsion. Mr Bryant adds the conclusions to which his experience lias conducted him, some of which we may quote—as follows: " In torsion the twisted cellular coat forms, with the retracted and incurved middle coat, the direct mechanical obstacle to the flow of arterial blood, in the same way as the compressed cellular coat does in the ligature; but in torsion the twisted cellular coat and incurved middle coat become subsequently a permanent means of occluding the end ot the artery, whilst the ligature becomes subsequently a source of irrita- tion, and too often a means of undoing what has been done by nature's own haemostatic processes. " In torsion the twist in the cellular coat of an artery ; the division and subsequent retractation, incurvation, and adhesion of the middle coat; and the coagulation of the blood in the vessel down to the first branch, are the three points upon which its temporary, as well as per- manent, safety depends ; whilst the permanent safety of acupressure rests upon the last point alone, and its temporary effects upon the pressure produced by the needle. " There is every reason to believe that, when torsion has been suc- cessful on its first application, the fear of subsequent haemorrhage is altogether groundless. " Upon physiological grounds torsion has decided advantages over the ligature and the acupressure needle." Farther experience of acupressure.—In pursuance of the review which we gave in the last Retrospect of Sir James Simpson's proposal for Becuring vessels by acupressure, we have thrown together the following records of surgical experience on this subject since that publication. In the first place, we shall arrange the writings of those surgeons which have come under our notice whose experience of this method has been satisfactory, and who have therefore adopted it as their ordinary re- source in the treatment of haemorrhage. Profs. Pirrie and Keith, of Aberdeen, have published a joint vol. (Aberd., 1867, pp. 190), in which the former relates 32 cases, of which he gives the following summary :— " They comprehend 7 cases of amputation of thigh, 4 of amputation of leg, 1 of amputation of arm, 8 of excision of mamma, 3 of excision of elbow-joint, 2 of removal of testicle, 1 of wound of the upper part of forearm, 1 of wound of hand, 1 of excision of an erectile tumour, 1 of excision of the upper part of fibula, 1 of haemorrhage from sloughing of the ball of the thumb, 1 of a wound of the radial artery, and 1 of removal of an epithelioma aud entire restoration of the lower lip. In every case, both in hospital and private practice, in which I have em- ployed acupressure, its use has been most satisfactory." Prof. Pirrie enumerates after Mr. Paget the various ways in which union of wounds can occur, and then proceeds to relate the histories of all his cases. We cannot, of course, give even an abstract of these notes, but some of the cases are of such practical interest in the details of the method that we may be allowed to quote a few lines. In case 4, an amputation of the thigh in a woman aet. 66, 5 arteries were secured by long pins and wire loops:—" When the flaps were brought together, the heads of the pins and ends of the loops projected a little beyond