DISEASES OF THE IJVER. 1S5 222 et seq., a highly interesting case of contraction of the bile-ducts. The patient was a woman, set. 63, who had for two months Buffered from in- tense diarrhoea, loss of appetite, and weakness. Her legs were swollen and cedematous. Her pulse was feehle, 104. The liver reached the fifth rib ; the spleen was not enlarged. The superficial abdominal veins were unusually full. In the right inguinal region was a hard lump, easily reducible, very painful ou pressure. By and by the abdomen became tender and distended, vomiting came on, and she died nine days after admission into hospital. On separating the muscles from the ribs on the right side a quantity of orange-yellow, thick, mucous liquid escaped from a cavity, at the bottom of which was a quantity of green purulent material. This cavity lay between the muscles of the abdo- minal wall and the parietal peritoneum. It extended into the right iliac fossa, where it communicated with the caecum, which was filled with a like materal. Above where the cavity touched the liver were six small holes, which communicated with a cavity in the substance of the liver, which was filled with yellow pus. Another cavity of a like nature was also found in this organ. Tbe duodenum and colon were united to the liver, and the former communicated with the cavity of the gall- bladder. The ductus communis was completely obliterated. In the gall-bladder and duodenum were yellow masses of a mucous nature. Stoffella, in the ' Oester. Ztschr. f. Prakt. Heilk.,' xiii, 46—48, extends Oppolzer's remarks on inflammation of the portal vein. Primary in- flammation of this vein is rare ; if occurring, the vein is usually athe- romatous, or has been injured. Usually inflammation is secondary, following thrombosis. It may be compressed by the liver in cirrhosis, by syphilitic hepatitis, tumours of the liver, or dilatations of the bile- ducts. These give rise to coagulation, which gradually extends to the branches of the vein. Sometimes the small roots of the vein become inflamed, and the inflammation spreads by the formation of emboli in its branches. In this way the portal inflammation is explained when it follows on ulcers of the rectum, fistulae, surgical operations on the rectum, inflammation of the bowels, especially of the caecum, peritonitis, inflammation and abscesses of the mesentery, omentum, and mesenteric glands, from ulcer or cancer of the stomach, or from splenic or hepatic abscess. A common result of this pylephlebitis is pyaemia. Pylephlebitis rarely ends in resolution, except the clot and the in- flammation have been very small. Sometimes the vein is completely blocked, and then a collateral circulation, of a more or less complex character, has to be set up. The inflammation is, however, rarely ad- hesive ; it is generally suppurative, and ends in abscesses of the "liver, with pyaemia. The symptoms of the adhesive form are pain and tender- ness over the liver. After arrest of the portal circulation there is ascites with gastric catarrh, and with enlargement of the superficial veins of the abdomen ; enlargement of the spleen; and haemorrhoidal swelling about the rectum, with frequent haemorrhage from the stomach and bowels. The liver is diminished in size, but jaundice only follows when there is catarrh of the bile-passages. Death follows in weeks or months. The distinctions from cirrhosis are hardly appre- ciable, except it may be inasmuch as the onset of the disorder is much