214 REPORT ON SURGERY. in the way of effecting complete primary union, that I have no desire to change.' ""While adhering, for similar reasons, to the ligature for the closure of wounded arteries, and not wishing to retract the statement I have made relative to the causes of surgical mortality, I freely admit that the ligature is an evil, and partly accountable for the deaths in un- healthy hospitals, by giving rise to, or acting as a concurrent cause of, discharges which are the active incidental instruments in pyaemia and allied diseases. Any agency which shall prove to be as powerful and safe as the ligature in arresting haemorrhage, without acting like the ligature as an incentive to suppuration, will unquestionably be a great surgical gain. The claims of torsion and acupressure to that distinction have been urged with the most passionate enthusiasm, the most inge- nious argument, and the most abundant eloquence; but at present, I think, the verdict on these claims must be ' not proven.' " In the 'Brit. Med. Journal,' Oct. 12, 1867, Mr. Nuuneley, of Leeds, refers to the failure which he believes to have hitherto attended the practice of acupressure, notwithstanding the exceptional success of Dr. Pirrie and Keith. Agreeing, however, in the importance of securing the vessels, if possible, without any foreign body being left in the wound, he suggests the use of fine forceps, constructed on the principle of the " bull-dog forceps," of various lengths, in order to correspond to the depth of the vessel. The bowed end of the forceps is left pro- jecting from the wound, and the forceps can be loosened by pressure on the bow when it is necessary to withdraw them. If more power be re- quired than can be obtained by the bow, they can be closed by a clip fitting on the projecting end. ' The following is Mr. Nunneley's account of his experience of this plan: " Prom small arteries I have removed the forceps in from twelve to twenty-four hours, but, in the larger, twenty-four to forty-eight hours should be allowed to elapse before they are taken away, by which time, I apprehend, the largest artery may be regarded as effectually sealed, though, if thought requisite, I see no reason why they may not be left in situ for a longer period. Hitherto all the cases in which the forceps have been employed have done remarkably well, but a longer time and more experience will be required before we can dogmatise upon how much is due to the employment of the forceps, and how much to other circumstances." In the same journal for Nov. 16, 1867, Dr. "Wolfe, of Aberdeen, ex- presses his concurrence with Mr. Nunneley's views as to the failure of acupressure as at present used, and figures an instrument which he has devised for the same purpose—a kind of canula-forceps. The vessel is seized with the points of the forceps, to which a handle passing through a tube is fixed. The handle being drawn back, the points of the forceps are clamped by the tube. Dr. Wolfe does not say whether he has tried this invention. In the 'British Medical Journal' for Peb. 1 and March 14, 1868, will be found proposals from Dr. Sarazin, of Strasburg, Dr. Taylor, of Edinburgh, and Dr. Smith, of Baltimore, for substituting various forms