128 11EP0KT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. case on this point; but there is enough suspicion to make it imperative for us to act on the safe side (' Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles,' xliv, 1867). Dr. Marcet gives his experience of the treatment of phthisis by inhalation of au aqueous solution of carbolic acid under the form of spray. He had been seeking for some antiseptic agent which could be introduced into the lung without interfering with the general functions of the body, and decided on trying carbolic acid. The inhalation of vapour from a solution of carbolic acid has been already tried, but the use of it under the form of spray is probably new. The results that he has obtained may be shortly expressed as follows: (1) When a solution of from half a grain to one and a half grain of crystallized acid in au ounce of water is inhaled as spray by a patient in the chronic first stage of phthisis, before softening has taken place, and perhaps also when the process of softening is just commencing, or at the very outset of the second stage, relief is thereby obtained, and in some cases it appears to assist, with other means, in arresting the disease. After using the spray the patients feel as if their breathing becomes easier and deeper. On moving about, and going up stairs, there is less dyspnoea. The stitch often felt, or some restriction to the expansion of the chest in the act of breathiug, is partly or entirely removed. Cough is frequently relieved, and expectoration may be considerably diminished. The absorption of any fluid in the smaller bronchi and pulmonary vesicles appears to be favoured, as shown by lessening of the crepitation. He cannot confidently assert that he has known any plastic material in the lungs to be absorbed while the spray was beino- used, still he believes that in some of his cases the duluess on percussion has diminished, and even disappeared, partly from the effects of the carbolic-acid spray. The treatment with the spray should not be adopted exclusively, but in addition to the use of counter-irri- tation, cod-liver oil, &c. \ , . . , (2) In cases of acute second and third stages of phthisis, where the process of softening is going on rapidly, accompanied with quick pulse, h>h temperature, debility and emaciation, the inhalation of the carbolic acTd spray, although it may afford temporary relief, appears objection- able from its depressing influence over the acLion of the heart. Marcet also thinks it advisable to withhold the use of the spray in the first acute], stage. . , M A solution of carbolic acid containing more than two grains to the ounce should, as a rule, not be used, from its depressing action on the heart From the above it will be seen that the spray should be employed with great caution; and if giddiness, faintness, trembling, with a permanently weakened pulse, or any increased irritation of the lungs, should result from the treatment, it ought to be at once discon- tinued Marcet thinks it doubtful whether, after all, the benefits of carbolic-acid spray in phthisis are merely due to its antiseptic action. He uses the spray as obtained from Clark's hand-ball spray producer, or sometimes from Mathieu's spray producer.^ Hehas tried and given up th lating ul/the steam spray-producing apparatus, from the difficulty of regu- Siag its action! He thinks it sufficient to inhale the spray once a day,