REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 340 § ' Archiv fur Ophthalmologic,' xiv, 1. observation, that the external layers of the retina, which form the per- ceptive portion of the organ, derive their nourishment from the chorio- capillaris, and that the vascular system of the central artery supplies only the internal layers, which form the organ for transmitting lumi- nous impressions to the brain. M. Sappey, in a paper presented to the Academie des Sciences of Paris,* has described several bundles of smooth muscles that he has observed in the human orbit. He says, " The electrization of the supe- rior extremity of the great cervical sympathetic produces, besides dila- tation of the pupil, congestion of the conjuctiva, and opening of the eyelids, a projection of the eyeball forwards. This movement presents the characters of those caused by the muscles of organic life. It is caused by smooth muscular fibres that form part of the orbital aponeu- rosis, which constitutes a veritable fibro-muscular sheath. The mecha- nism of the projection is as follows:—The smooth muscular fibres, scattered over the greater part of the sheath and collected into more distinct fasciculi at certain points, form the sheath into a contractile cone, with its base fixed and directed forwards, so that its walls, in con- tracting, push upon the posterior surface of the eyeball and cause it to advance." The action of curare upon the visual organs has been studied by MM. Voisin and Lionville,f who describe a series of experiments upon the human subject. They observed a confusion of sight, a heaviness of the upper eyelids, with partial closure, a feeling of oppression at the frontal region, diplopia and pupillary dilatation, and sometimes divergent strabismus. These effects were produced in the order of their enume- ration ; and the doses which produced them, with greater or less rapi- dity and intensity, varied from 5 centigrammes to 135 milligrammes. They were given by the subcutaneous injection of a filtered solution. EogowJ has instituted a series of nineteen elaborate experiments upon rabbits, sheep, and oxen, in order to determine the mode of action of Calabar bean and of nicotine in producing contraction of the pupil. He arrives at the conclusion that Calabar bean acts entirely upon the sphincter of the iris, through the terminal filaments of the third nerve. The action of nicotine is less simple and less easily determined ; but it appears to be due partly to stimulation of filaments of the fifth in the iris, and partly to paralysis of the sympathetic. Its character is in some measure influenced by the manner of its application. Dr. Dor, of Berne,§ has published the results of his investigations into the variations of ocular tension, tested by the ophthalmotonometer. The instrument employed is the same that he described in the ' Kliuische Monatsbliitter' for 1863, with some improvements, which are explained in the paper. He gives an account of many experiments on the eyes of animals, and of observations on about 200 human eyes. The degree of tension is expressed by weight in grammes. The normal tension is found to range from 250 to 29° with 270 as a mean; and morbid * ' Archives Generates de Medecine,' 1868. t ' Journal de l'Anatoniie et de la Physiologic,' 1867. % ' Zeitschrift fur rationellen Medecin,' 1867.