REPORT ON SURGERY. 298 always cicatrized rapidly. M. Demarquay does not propose the opera- tion as curative. The best operation for exposing the lingual artery is Blandin's. Beclard was, according to Demarquay, the first who conceived the idea of tying the lingual. But Harvey had already recognised all the ad- vantages that surgeons may obtain in cases of tumour from tying the different arteries. In Prance, M. Mirault, of Angers, has the credit of having first applied a ligature to the lingual artery. Since that it has been tied by MM. Flaubert, Koux, and Maisonneuve, in France; by Liston and Moore in England; and finally by M. Demarquay. Ligature of the carotid for intra-orbital aneurism.—In the ' British Medical Journal, Oct. <, 1867, Mr. Z. Laurence relates a case of intra- orbital aneurism following on repeated falls while in a state of intoxica- tion. This occurred eight days before the patient was first seen. Pro- trusion of the eyeball had been noticed on the following morning. There was a convulsive fit, followed by stertorous breathing, on that day, but there has never been any loss of power. When first seen the case was taken for one of orbital cellulitis, but shortly after- wards the usual symptoms of aneurism were discovered, viz. pulsa- tion of the eyeball, and a loud bruit synchronous with the pulse, extending from the eyeball over the temporal and parietal to the frontal and opposite parietal regions. There was great chemosis, im- mobility of the eyeball, and loss of sight. Pressure by means of " Skey's tourniquet" was applied for twelve days almost constantly; but much difficulty was experienced in maintaining continuous effec- tual compression without interfering with the patient's respiration. "Nevertheless, thanks to the exemplary tractability of the patient, the compression treatment was, on the whole, effectually tried." The only good effect, however, which Mr. Laurence ascribes to it, was in the enlargement of the collateral circulation. The compression was assisted by ice to the tumour and the internal administration of ten- drop doses of tincture of digitalis and of liquor opii sedativus every third hour for two days. The patient's health began, however, to fail, the tumour increased in size, and repeated bleedings from the nose occurred. It was decided to tie the artery, which was done fifteen days after the commencement of the treatment. The operation was perfectly success- ful in curing the aneurism, though sight was permanently lost. The voice became husky after the operation, and remained so as long as he was under observation (four and a half months). Ligature of the common femoral artery.—In the British Medical Journal, Oct. 5, 1867, will be found a paper by Dr. Macnamara, of Dublin, on the subject of ligature of the common femoral artery, just below Poupart's ligament, as recommended by the late Prof. Porter. This operation is usually considered very fatal, from gangrene and secondary hoemorrhage. But Dr. Macnamara points out that it baa been performed eight times in Dublin (viz. three times by the late