FOREIGN BODY IN POSTERIOR NARES. 233 vault, and calling for partial resection of the upper jaw. In these latter operations he was able to employ chloroform and keep the blood out of the mouth for 9-ioths of the time; but he allows that for complete extirpation of the npper jaw the plan is insufficient. The nasal fossje should be plugged before chloroform is given, and the surgeon should assure himself that they are completely plugged. As soon as the bleeding has ceased the plug should be withdrawn. Its further retention could only embarrass the patient. If the septum is perforated, or the operation involves both nasal fossje, both nostrils should be plugged. Foreign body in posterior nares.—In the ' British Medical Journal' for Sept. 7 and Sept. 28, 1867, two cases are reported of a very similar nature, in which a metal ring (in one case a steel purse ring, in the other a brass ring of similar shape) was impacted in the posterior nares. In the first case, under the care of Mr. Lowndes, of Liverpool, the body was detected soon after its lodgment, and was easily extracted under chloroform, by pushing it into the pharynx with one hand, and receiving it in the finger and thumb of the other. The second case, under Mr. Hickman's care, was of more interest, since the ring had been lodged for 13-A- years, since the age of 1, and the girl had been under medical care during the greater part of the time:—The following history was obtained from the mother. Thirteen and a half years previously, when not quite two years old, the child was seized with a choking fit whilst at play, and ran to her mother endeavouring to attract attention to her throat; the mother thrust her finger into the child's mouth and felt distinctly the circular outline of a ring, but it immediately escaped from her touch and she could not bring it out, and, as the choking symptoms subsided, she concluded it must have been swallowed. It was never detected in the motions, however ; and in the course of a week or two a brownish discharge took place from the nose, so the child was taken to a medical man, and afterwards to several others, but all assured the mother there was nothing lodged. From that time the child had always been ailing, and was with difficulty reared, a delicate strumous-looking girl. The discharge from the nose diminished and became colourless, but continued ; the nose became quite impervious to air, so that the mouth was noticed to be always open; she became very deaf, lost the sense of smell, and was continually having attacks of sore- throat, and at last the breath became so offensive that she was not allowed to attend school, and could get no other children to associate with her. During all this time she was constantly being taken to different medical men, and was treated for sore-throat, ulcerated throat, • enlarged tonsils, fissure of the palate, polypus of the nose, &c. &c.— ithe mother's account of the accident with the ring being made light of, until at last, as she said, she was almost ashamed to relate it. The child .•remained a month in one of the provincial infirmaries, and had one of :her tonsils excised ; the other was also to have been removed, but that ■she was obliged to return to London with her parents. On rhinoscopic examination Mr. Hickman found the soft palate -much swollen, especially on the right bide, and there was a fistulous