414. ItEPOltT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. acute yellow atrophy of the liver which he had observed to study the connection of this disease with pregnancy more closely. He thinks he is now in a position to affirm that puerperal women are liable to a disease running rapidly, even suddenly, to death soon after labour, the symptoms being obscure, without jaundice or intestinal haemorrhages, and only recognised as acute fatty degeneration on dissection, the basis of which was laid in pregnancy. There are similar phenomena in new- born children. He gives cases :—(i) Normal labour; child dead; pro- fuse haemorrhage after expulsion of placenta; sudden death an hour after labour. The child had probably been dead eight days. On dissection the brain was found anemic, lungs somewhat cedematous ; no trace of thrombosis in the pulmonary arteries ; heart small, full, flaccid, containing hardly any blood ; valves sound; tissue showing no change under microscope. Under the peritoneal coat of the liver were con- siderable blood effusions, so that the colour of the surface was deep red ; the substance was brown red, volume somewhat increased. On section, the blood effusions could be traced along Grlisson's capsule to the finer branches of the vena porta?, so that the parenchyma looked as if sprinkled. Under the microscope the liver-cells were seen infiltrated, the pigment nuclei increased, numerous white blood-corpuscles, free nuclei, and molecules. The kidneys were in the condition of so-called " turbid swelling," and in the fluid a crowd of nuclei was floating. There was submucous blood effusion in the renal pelvis, and small ecchvmose3 in the mucous membrane of the bladder. In another case a pluripara was delivered after a face presentation. Profuse haemorrhage during ex- pulsion of placenta. Death of mother forty-five hours after labour, under obscure symptoms. It was found that the liver was in advanced stage of parenchymatous inflammation, the liver-cells being much destroyed and infiltrated with fat. As to the new-born children, Hecker calls attention to the memoirs on acute fatty degeneration of new-born domestic animals by Fiirsten- berg and Eoloff, in ' Virchow's Archiv,' 1864-5. He relates the case of a child that died ninety hours after birth, in which the liver was found smaller than natural, was bright yellow, like a goose's liver, and showed the characters of acute liver atrophy ; the parenchyma was completely destroyed, and under the microscope were seen fat-droplets and mole- cular detritus. The kidneys showed uric acid infarctus and a consider- able epithelial degeneration ('Mon. f. G-eb.,' 1867). Eeferring to a previously reported case, Dr. Hecker relates the following:—A woman, a?t. 32, had been delivered easily and without aid of a mature living child on the 13th July, was seized twenty-eight hours afterwards with shortness of breathing and died suddenly. The body ■was well nourished. When examined, twenty-three hours after death, there was no trace of decomposition, of oedema, or of jaundice ; but in the skin of the abdominal wall were numerous eccbymoses, which might raise suspicion that there was acute fatty degeneration. In the thoracic cavity was a yellowish transudation in considerable quantity: the lungs were sound, somewhat cedematous, and spotted with numerous sub-pleural blood extravasations. The muscular structure of the heart was fragile, showing many eccbymoses under the cudo-