AURAL SURGERY. supposed anomaly in the distribution of the nerves in this patient, do not account for the recurrent sensibility. The notes of the case extend over about eighteen days. The sensi- bility became gradually more exquisite, and hyperesthesia had come on in the thenar eminence, with formication and intermittent pain in the fingers. On the eighth day electricity applied by M. Duchenne failed to excite any contraction in the muscles of the thenar eminence. In the 'Lancet,' Aug. i, 1868, p. 142, is the account of a case by Mr. Savory, which may be compared with the foregoing case of M. Eichet. Here a large neuroma existed on the musculo-spiral nerve. The tumour was removed, and along with it a portion of the whole thickness of the nerve, several inches in length. The operation was followed by complete paralysis of the muscles which are supplied by the nerve, so that the muscles of the back of the hand were paralysed, and the hand dropped forward from the wrist. But in testing the sensi- bility of that portion of the skin of the hand which is supplied by branches of the radial nerve, Mr. Savory was not a little astonished to find that it was but slightly impaired. Details are given proving how little difference of sensation there was between the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the hand, and also that the radial portion of the dorsum was rather more sensitive than the other half. This remarkable fact is only to be explained (since there is no other cutaneous supply to the parts in question, except through the nerve of which some inches had just been removed) by supposing that the anastomosis between the external cuta- neous and the radial, which takes place by means of a few filaments passing from the former nerve to the latter just above the wrist, was sufficient to impart its power of receiving sensation to the radial when thus isolated. Mr. Savory thinks that the communication between the ulnar and radial, on the back of the hand, is too near the distribution of the nerves to account for the phenomenon. The case suggests to him the question whether nerves are so isolated in their distribution aB they are now believed to be, or whether the purpose of the communication between different nerves in their course is not more extensive and com- plete than has been hitherto recognised. In a paper entitled "An Outline of the Present Methods of Diagnosis in Aural Surgery," in the 'Medical Times and Gazette,' Aug. 10, 1867, Mr. Hinton makes the following observations on the relation of diseases of the ear to diseases of other organs, or to general morbid conditions: '■ On this point I have to confess that my inquiries have yielded as yet, with a few important exceptions, a somewhat negative result. I think, indeed, if I expressed my own feeling on the matter, I should say a strikingly negative result. Scrofula, as is well known, in children predisposes to inflammatory affections of the meatus and tympanum, and renders a fatal extension to the bones more prone to ensue. Gout has occasionally one of its seats in the external meatus, and apparently another in the articulations of the ossicula, which small joints appear sometimes to suffer from a true arthritic anchylosis. The connection of this condition with a rheumatic diathesis may be more frequent, but