261 ESCHAROTICS IN JOINT-DISEASE. diagnosis, I fully believe; but I consider that those instances where the fons et origo mali arise in the bone preponderate enormously. My own opportunities of obtaining pathological evidence have left me without a doubt on the subject, and the practice which I propose is based upon that conclusion. " In Sir B. Brodie's great work on the joints, he recognises the fact of the frequent origin of disease in the cancellous structure ; and he de- scribes the distension of the heads of the bones with a reddish medullary fluid, then softening of the tissue, and finally suppuration; the matter either forcing through to the cavity of the joint, or reaching the surface at some position more or less remote; but, whilst he thus clearly re- cognises the cause, and graphically describes the disastrous effects, he forbids the remedy, and strongly cautions against an early or premature opening, although he had himself with success trephined the heads and shafts of the long bones in cases of painful and circumscribed abscess. That he attempted to give relief in a similar manner in those cases of acute articular osteitis which he so circumstantially describes, is more than probable; and I therefore infer that his caution against the early opening of an inflamed bone was founded on his experience of ill con- sequences that followed such a proceeding. 11 Notwithstanding the teachingof this great authority, I venture to pro- pose interference by operation at the very earliest moment that conges- tive inflammation of the head of a bone can be fairly diagnosed; and I state with confidence, that a perforation made into the cancellous struc- ture, if freely cauterized with the potassa cum calce, will be followed by relief from pain, and that the inflammation which ensues will be only Buch as is attendant on, and accompanies, reparative action. " The caustic tunnel may be made at once by cutting down on the bone and piercing the compact tis-sue with a strong knife, trocar, or small trephine, and then freely cauterizing the full extent of the perforation; or, in less acute small eschar may be first made, the centre of which being incised, the caustic can be introduced; and, by combining its action with the knife, the tunnel can be carried deeper from day to day in a gradual manner. By means of this combined caustic perfora- tion, I succeeded in arresting disease in its first onset in the head of the radius, in the case of a young man, a?t. 24, in the year 1861. Since that time I have tried it with success in several cases of incipient disease in carpal, tarsal, and other superficial bones. I perforated the tibia above the internal malleolus in several instances with curative results; also the great trochanter in cases where its structure, or that of the head and neck of the femur were the seat of the osteitis, the cavity a of the joint being yet unaffected. " On April 26 last I exhibited a young man at the Surgical Society of Ireland, into whose trochanter a caustic tunnel had been inserted on March 22 preceding, and which was still freely open. The wasted buttock, obliterated fold of nates, and emaciated state of the entire limb, stili existed to proclaim the nature of the disease, but all pain had ceased; the motions of the joint were in a great measure restored, and he walked about before the members of the Society without lameness, although, for three months before the operation, his thigh was flexed,