239 FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. ever, though it allows the patient to eat and speak for the time of its application (usually seven or eight weeks), "has its disadvantages. If the fracture take place behind the first molar, the bearing on the upper fragment is too slight to keep it down in its place. Even when this is not the case it is sometimes difficult to press the fragments evenly into the soft gutta pereha; and, lastly, if the splint be screwed very tightly together, it causes much pain by squeezing the soft parts of the chin up against the jaw." Mr. Hill then describes the other apparatus, which seek to effect the same object as M. Morel Lavallee's, but by a more elaborate machinery. Such are Lonsdale's, in which an ivory cap replaces the gutta percha in the dental cap of the one above described, and is also attached to a chin-piece. Mr. Hill describes a modification of this apparatus, made bv Mr. Ibbetson in a case under his own care. Mr. Lonsdale's splint is" only applicable to cases of fracture between the incisors, as the ivory cap is too short to reach far along the arch of the teeth. It is also very cumbrous. Its advantages are that it permits the patient to eat and speak. Mr. Hill's modification (which consists in the substitution for the ivory cap of a metallic plate made on a mould of the teeth and padded with india rubber to receive the teeth, and some alteration in the mode of attachment to the chin-piece) enables the apparatus to be used in fracture farther back. Another contrivance is that of Mr. H. Hayward, who adapts a silver plate to the whole of the lower jaw (on a moiild obtained, if necessary, under chloroform, while the frag- ments are kept temporarily in apposition), and attached by wings, or arms, of silver to an external splint; gold answers even better than silver. Finally, Mr. Hill calls attention to the plan of Mr. Gunning, of New York, who adapts a splint of vulcanite to the teeth, which has been struck upon a model of the jaw, and extends beyond the margin of the gums on all sides. In simple cases the perfect fit of this splint ensures its keeping the parts" in apposition, while the movements of eating, &c, are but little interfered with. Holes should be cut through the vulcanite to permit a stream of water to be injected, so as to clean the mouth, and in difficult cases a hole should be made opposite a tooth on either side of the fracture for ascertaining from time to time that each part continues in position. But in more complicated cases (as when teeth are lost on either side of the fracture) more special con- trivances are necessary. When this is the case Mr. Gunning screws the splint by small gold screws into the sound teeth on either side of the jaw. The screw-holes can be filled up after the splint has served its purpose. In still more complicated cases, as where there is much vertical displacement, the splint is to be attached also to the upper jaw by a mould of its teeth, a hole being cut below for passing food into the mouth; and if there is much comminution Mr. Gunning also attaches the interdental splint to an external support under the chin, and, if necessary, to a cap on the head also. Mr. Gunning's original paper will be found in the ' New York Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1866. The well-known case of Mr. Seward, who was under Mr. Gunning's care, is referred to. The advantages of Mr. Gunning's interdental splint are thus stated :