DIGESTION. 7 of the cervical sympathetic increases the secretions of the parotid ; and v. "Wittich,* who has also noticed the same fact, attributes it to increased secretory activity of the gland. Bidder is disposed to agree with him, since, as a consequence of the irritation, an increased flow of blood through the gland occurs, with augmented pressure in the veins and pulsation in these vessels. Eckhard,f however, regards the increased discharge as merely the result of the expression from the gland, by contraction of their muscular walls, of the store of saliva which has accumulated in the ducts. In a paper by Dr. F. Losch J is detailed a series of investigations made to determine whether the Leptothrix buccalis, a form of fungus commonly or constantly appearing in the saliva, exercises any influence in the con- version of starch into sugar, and replies decisively in the negative. The converting agent is the ptyalin. The act of deglutition has been carefully investigated by Dr. Moura,§ who generally corroborates the observations of Dzondi and Czermak. In regard to the deglutition of liquids, he found that on swallowing ink the parts tinted were the whole internal surface of the mouth, the velum palati, uvula, pillars of the fauces, the external or anterior surface of the epiglottis, the pharynx, and the posterior surfaces of the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages. ~No staining occurred of the vestibule of the larynx, except close to the margin of the epiglottis. In along paper contained in ' Moleschott's TJntersuchungen,'|| Schiff endeavours to show that in the act of vomiting an active muscular con- traction takes place, by which, in the moment immediately preceding the ejection of the contents of the stomach, the cardiac orifice is rendered patent; and he cites in favour of his view an observation long ago made by Tantini, showing that no vomiting can be induced in the well-known experiment of Magendie unless the parts about the cardiac orifice of the stomach are first cut away; and also an observation of Ruhle, showing that if a manometer be inserted into the stomach of an animal, and vomiting be excited by the injection of tartar emetic into its veins, at the moment just previous to the ejection of the contents of the organ the mercury, instead of rising, as it might naturally be expected to do, falls. This observation bad not escaped Valentin, who attributed the fall of the mercury to negative pressure, occasioned by the rapid discharge of fluid from the stomach. Schiff, however, regards it as due to the contraction of a definite set of muscular fibres, effecting an active dilatation of the cardia, since it precedes the pressure exerted by the abdominal walls, and these fibres are the longitudinal fibres of the lower part of the oesophagus. The views of Letzerich respecting the absorption of fats through special absorbing cells situated on the villi, described in the last Eeport, have led to much investigation and discussion. Sachs, who worked under the superintendence of Chrzonsczcwsky,^[ strongly opposes Letzerich's state- ments. He considers the peculiar open-mouthed beaker or port-wine- glass cells ol Letzerich as altogether artificial products, resulting from the action of reagents on the delicate epithelial cells of the villi; and he was » ' Virchow's Archiv,' xxxvii and xxxix. f ' Beitrage/ iv, Heft ii, 1867. X ' Untersuch. aus dem Pliysiolog. Laborat. in Wurzburg,' Leipsic, Dec. 1868. § Robin's 'Journal de l'Anatomie,' 1867, p. 157. 11 Band x> '867. p. 353. ' Virchow's Archiv,' xxix, p. 493.