REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SL'ROEKY. eye. Dr. Alexander also mentions a case* in which amaurosis wm produced by toothache, and disappeared when the tooth was removed. (b) Surgery. As regards the orbital cavity, as a whole, there is not much to be chronicled. M. Bourdillatf records at considerable lengtli a case of hematocele of the orbit that was under the care of M. Demarquav. The patient was a young woman of 28, and the swelling, which appeared after a normal pregnancy, and without any assignable cause, had existed for eight years. The orbit was filled by a large, soft, elastic, fluctuating tumour, which projected the eye and produced diplopia, but had net otherwise affected vision. M. Demarquay gave exit by puncture to a considerable quantity of fluid, that partially coagulated, and that con- tained red and white blood-corpuscles. Believing that he had to deal with a cyst, he commenced a treatment by weak iodine injections. The third was followed by destructive inflammation of the eye, and then the whole contents of the orbit were removed by operation. The periosteum of the upper orbital wall came away with the mass, and was undistinguishable from it. The patient made a good recovery, and an examination of the tumour, the results of which are very fully given, showed that it consisted of an infiltration of the normal tissues by effused blood. Prof. KnappJ describes an interesting plastic operation on the lower eyelid, after the removal of a cancroid growth, which occupied the in- ternal two thirds and the inner angle of the lid, and extended two or three lines on the side of the nose. Under chloroform, the growth was removed by straight incisions, forming a rectangle, of which the supe- rior and external angle was absent. The external commissure was then extended outwards by an incision curving slightly upwards. The infe- rior side of the rectangle was also extended outwards by an incision curving slightly downwards. The flap was raised, and, when bleeding had ceased, was united to a flap made by prolonging the horizontal lines of the rectangle upon the nose. The superior and internal angle of the external flap was united, by a point of suture, to the internal extremity of the upper lid. The wound was thus covered, and the external fourth of the lower eyelid was made to form the internal fourth of the new eyelid. The edges were evenly united by points of suture. The heal- ing was normal, and the result extremely good. The same author describes ยง a variety of plastic operations on the conjunctiva. Eor pterygium or symblepharon, after removing the growth or separating the adhesion, he covers the surface with flaps of conjunctiva, in a manner similar to that of Mr. Teale. He unites the wound left after the removal of a staphyloma, not by sutures through the sclerotic, as in Mr. Critchett's operation, but by sutures through the conjunctiva only, in order to avoid the inflammation sometimes caused by the former pro- cedure. He enters a threaded needle horizontally under the conjunc- tiva, near the middle line, about four and a half millimetres above the * ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1868. t ' Gaz. Hebdomadale,' 1868. % ' Archivfiir Ophthalmologic,' xiii, 1. ยง Ibid., xiv, 1.