191 SKIN DISEASES. and stinging one. There are now no vesicles, but a few papules, and considerable desquamation. There is little itching, but much smarting. There is no symmetrical patch on the other limb. To follow the order of thought stated above, we (i) name the lesions, a simple matter in this case. (2) "We know by the look of the patch, and by inquiry, that it is the chronic stage of a once active process, which active process at its phase of greatest activity was marked by vesicles on an inflamed surface, this form of eczema having a very brief period of culmination and a very prolonged period of subsequent chronicity. This subsequent period is often marked by squamo-papular elements. Such an ana- tomical development I call eczema, after "Willan. (3) "We have to go a step further, and ask whether the connection of the eczema with the other affections in this person and his family is an accidental or an essential connection. Now, eczematous affections occur in the course of the scrofulous series, of the arthritic, of the dartrous, and also from the effects of certain parasites, certain irritants, &c. Can we by any peculiar features recognise specific differences among these eczemas of various origin? I think we can. "Where the scrofulous skin gives way in eczematous modes it is rather on the upper than on the lower parts of the body; it does not sting much; it does not go and come in one spot, but spreads rather rapidly; it generally comes and goes once for all, and it does not occur in adult life. It does not dry up and form scales, but secretes a sero-purulent fluid, which tends to form crusts. The dartrous person, again, is very liable to eczemas among other degenerations of the skin. But in them the eczematous form of morbid evolution differs widely from either of the preceding. It tends to spread rapidly, and also symmetrically on both sides of the body. It is seldom complicated with papules, though it often is with super- ficial ulcers and with scales. It is of a pink, not a claret colour; it runs freely with a clear exudation, which does not] form horny crusts. It may smart a little, but generally itches. It has no tendency to recur in a circumscribed spot, but it generally prefers the inner aspect of the limbs. I will not proceed to point out the peculiarities of sy- philitic eczema, as these are said to be well known. Dr. Handfield Jones ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 9, 1867) records the case of a clergyman, set. 64, who had been during two years melan- cholic. From this attack he recovered, but was soon after attacked with a reddening and pruriginous itching near the left ankle. The veins were varicose, but the health was good; ultimately the pain and itching became so intolerable as to be hardly bearable, even with powerful anodyne applications, as lint soaked in strong infusion of tobacco, sometimes with opium and large quantities of hydrocyanic acid. The surface was bright red, covered by a thin cuticle, through which innumerable papula? could be seen. Latterly faintness after- eating came on, but the mind was all the time perfectly sound. One morning his medical attendant was hastily summoned, who found him Wildly excited and irrational in his talk, but the prurigo was gone. The previous evening he was itching as usual; in the morning the skin was only slightly red, and he said it was quite well. He gradually became melancholic, but the eruption never returned.