86 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. as seen in some cases of tumour of the brain, but is not so frequent as in abscesses. They maintain that pyaemic abscess of the brain is par- ticularly likely to mislead, in consequence of the frequent absence in these cases of any different symptoms pointing to the brain. "With regard to the question whether abscess in brain can ever be spon- taneously cured, the authors expressed themselves with caution. The practical facts are, of course, against the idea of curability; neverthe- less, the development of firm cyst-walls in some cases shows the dispo- sition to spontaneous cure. It is usual to find the pus in such abscesses very degenerate, namely, granular and fatty; this would favour its absorption and other changes which in other abscesses would be recog- nised as pointing to a cure. Dr. Meyer, of Zurich, in the treatment of this affection, established the following points of diagnosis between brain abscess and other affec- tions :—(i) From hydrocephalus. The diagnosis is only possible where the history of the case is known ; for instance, where there is evidence of a previous inflammation and of the remission of the symptoms, and where the mind has remained untroubled. In cases where abscess of the brain is only seen in the last stage it is impossible to distinguish it from hydrocephalus. (2) From embolism and apoplexy. In the last stage of the abscess, where it bursts into the ventricle itself, diagnosis from apoplexy may be impossible. The best test is the height of the accompanying fever, as also the gradual occurrence of paralysis, and its origin from small brain territories, as also the occurrence of convul-. sions. (3) From acute red softening, which, indeed, is the first stage of the abscess. The etiological circumstances are of the most importance here ; the occurrence of remissions, and the height of the fever. (4) From chronic softening. The relatively early age in abscess, the rare existence of disease of the vessels, pain in the head, and the absence of mental derangement, the rarity of contraction of the limbs, and the typical course of the disease, distinguish it from chronic softening. (5) From brain tumour. Chronic abscess so closely resembles brain tumour that its diagnosis from the latter is excessively difficult. The known causes are the most important matter, as also the peculiarity of the course and the special symptoms. The special symptoms of abscess are the following :—The pain in the head is slighter and more equable, less neuralgic, and less free from complications, in abscess than in tumour. Mental derangements are much rarer in abscess, as also alterations of sensibility without motor derangement. General and local convulsions may occur equally in either affection. Persistent disturb- ance of the mind speaks strongly against abscess, whilst remarkable and remitting fever is much in its favour. In tumour there is no per- ceptible initial stage. Its subsequent course is more even, and without the typic character of chronic abscess. As regards the diagnosis of the seat of abscess, it is to be remembered that this is usually an indilferent one, and therefore gives no characteristic symptoms. The known causes may teach us something. For instance, if it be the result of a wound, abscess is generally found in the neighbourhood of the latter, as in the case of chronic otitis. Where affections of the nose are the cause the abscess will be found in the middle lobe of the brain, or the