108 CROUP. Steiner had 52 operations on children (33 boys, and 19 girls), and iS recoveries ; 11 of the latter were boys, and 7 girls. The operation is more successful when not too long postponed. The subsequent treat- ment is all important; and thus in the hospitals, where the greatest care is taken, better results are got than in private practice. Besides the ordinary directions as.to light but nutritious food, beer, &c, Steiner recommends the following medicinal treatment. If there be free mucous secretion and expectoration, ipecacuanha, either alone or with the extract of bark, should be given. "When there is much fever, in- fusion of digitalis and nitre, or a few drops of tinct. opii, with cold fomentations to the chest. When there is constant dyspnoea, arnica, ammonia, anise, and benzoin; when collapse ensues, wine, camphor, and musk. If there be faucial croup, chlorate of potash gargle must be used, or in quite young children, the throat should be washed with solu- tion of nitrate of silver. The tubes must be properly and constantly cleaned. A continued irritative cough often results from ulceration of the tracheal mucous membrane, produced by an accretion upon the portion of the canula within the trachea. When infiltration takes place, followed by loss of substance at the edges of the wound in the windpipe, pieces of charpie, wet with solution of chlorate of potash, 5 to 6 grains to the ounce, must be applied. When gangrene is threat- ened, chlorate of potash, quinine, acids, and wine must be used. Drs. H. W. Stork and H. Gr. Hopelink relate a case of spontaneous croup in the adult. A woman, est. 29, half way through her pregnancy, had suffered for four weeks from hoarseness; this was treated as ordinary laryngitis, and nothing remarkable occurred for some days till one night severe dyspnoea occurred, forcing the patient to sit upright; inspiration was shrill, but not rapid, and a deep breath could be taken. There was no clang with the voice, but there was pain and a sensation as if something was stuck in the throat. In the back of the pharynx nothing was to be seen except slight redness and mucous secretion ; percussion gave a normal sound, auscultation showed mucous rales. The cough occasionally came on very hoarsely, and with such severity that one thought the patient must be suffocated. There was much grey mucous expectoration; pulse 128. The patient felt grea fatigue. It appeared that the patient had, twenty-four hours previously, during an attack of coughing, spat out a piece of membrane the size of the bowl of a tablespoon. Afterwards two smaller pieces were ejected, but the patient felt no relief. Calomel and yellow sulphuret of antimony were prescribed and blisters applied to the neck. Next morning the condition was the same; pulse 126. In a fit of coughing at night another piece of membrane was ejected. In the afternoon the atient seemed to be dying; she was really very much collapsed, with er face swollen, though not livid; it was decided to open the wind- pipe, but this was ultimately put aside, and liver of sulphur given instead. At 6p.m. the patient was far quieter and the breathing less rapid. At to o'clock the patient slept; pulse 120. Another smal piece of membrane was expectorated; besides the chest sounds pre- viously heard, there was now a " bruit de drapeau." At 3 o'clock next day the condition was tolerable, but there was then greater shortness