277 SCIATICA. at the seaside; a teaspoonful of the syrup of the superphosphate of irou and manganese immediately after meals. In a short time—about a week—the numbness decreased, and then passed off entirely ; at the end of a fortnight he was apparently quite well again. I suppose that iu this case the complaint was correctly diagnosed before any alteration of structure had taken place, and hence the rapid recovery. " In all cases it is important that the general health should be at- tended to, and suitable tonics given; but that no strychnine should be prescribed for at least two months after the date when the use of the pen had been first abandoned, and that in no form should galvanism be employed until some improvement can be detected. •■ My practical experience so far corroborates my theory of this disease, that in a confirmed case the dynamic portion—i. e. the vesi- cular structure—of the spinal cord or cerebellum, which harmonises the movement of the hand, has been overworked and disorganized ; that it must be reproduced in its original integrity ; that the cure consists in giving nature time and leisure to effect this reproduction. " I have no positive facts to bring forward in proof that the nervous centre which has been injured is in the cerebellum or spinal cord, but I still incline to the belief that it is in the spinal cord." Sciatica from inflammation and effusion in ilie mouth of tJie sciatic nerve.—In the ' Medical Times and Gazette,' Jan. 4, 1868, Dr. Fayrer, of Calcutta, relates the case of a gentleman, set. 30, who had been salivated three months previously for a venereal affection, after which pain in the hip made its appearance, so severe that he was unable to sleep. Blisters and several other remedies, including the iodide of potassium, had been used in vain. The symptoms of sciatica were well marked, and there was great pain in the course of the nerve in the gluteal region, and especially at one point, where Dr. Fayrer thought, after long and careful examination, that he could detect deep-seated fluctuation, with fulness and induration in the course of the nerve. There was also some tenderness on pressing deeply in the iliac region. It occurred to him that there had been inflammation in, and that the symptoms were due to effusion into, the sheath of the nerve. It is to be observed that the patient had been previously a healthy man, and not subject to sciatica or rheumatism. Dr. Fayrer made a puncture with a long narrow knife down to this indurated part, and gave exit to more than half an ounce of clear serum. The removal of tension caused by the fluid was followed by immediate and almost perfect relief. Dr. Fayrer did not see his patient again, but ascertained, more than a month afterwards, that he was quite well and free from lameness. Dr. Fayrer remarks : "This is the only case of the kind that I have met with, but I should more carefully look for this effusion within the sheath of the nerve in future cases of sciatica that may come under my observation. It is possible that this may have been due to the attack of syphilis, or to the mercury he took to salivation for its cure. But as there was no other evidence of constitutional syphilis, and as iodide of potassium had no effect on the disease, I am inclined to think it was not traceable to