REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 478 lation. (3) If this theory be adopted, digitalis is a sedative of the circulation, in the sense that it calms its disordered actions; but this is by an excitant and tonic action, and not, as is generally supposed, by one which is hypothenisant. (4) The influence of digitalis upon 'the temperature, nutrition, uterine contractions, and haemorrhages, can only be explained by its excitant action on the terminals of the great sym- pathetic. (5) This theory fully justifies the favorable results obtained by the use of digitalis in fevers, cerebral affections, haemorrhages, dysmenorrhcea, congestions, dropsies, and those disturhances of the circulation dependent on cardiac lesions. Veratrum.—Oulmont has investigated the effects of the tincture of Veratrum viride on animals and on man.* He found the effects manifested chiefly on the digestive, respiratory, and circulatory organs. Nausea was quickly produced, followed by violent vomiting and purging, sometimes lasting from 15 to 20 hours. No inflammation of the alimentary canal was found after death. The same effects resulted from hypodermic injection of the drug. The respiration was very rapidly and strikingly altered; it became unequal and irregular—now very rapid, and again so slow that only one or two respirations occurred in a minute; and occasionally, in frogs, it entirely ceased. The circula- tion slackened just as quickly; the pulse fell 20, 40, or 60 beats per minute (in men, free from fever, with doses of from 1 to 3 cubic centim. = 15 to 46 minims, itfell 30 or 40 beats). Lowering of temperature is less constant; but in \ to 2 hours 2, 3, or 5 centigrade degrees of heat (3h 5a> or 9 degrees ¥.) may be lost. A hypothenisant action is manifest from the outset; enfeeblement and prostration go on till they culminate in death. Convulsions, rigidity of the muscles, and tetanus never occur. The fatal dose of the tincture is, for a frog, 20 drops; for a rabbit, 60 to 80 drops; for a dog, 120 to 150 drops. Oulmont likewise made comparative experiments with Veratrum album, to determine whether the two plants possess similar properties. The V. album produces a more rapid action than the V. viride, and is fatal in half the dose. Inflammation of the alimentary canal is in- variably found after death from the former. In other respects the two species appear to possess similar properties. Veratrum viride is con- sequently a safer remedy than V. album. The effects observed do not appear to be due to the veratria contained in V. viride, for a specimen from which all the alkaloid had been removed was just as active as before. Oulmont concludes that V. viride is a cardiac poison, like digitalis, but is quicker in its action. Prevost f has investigated the physiological effects of veratria. After proving that the effects upon the ruddy frog (Raua temporaria) differ from those produced on the green frog (R. viridis), he divides the symptoms into three periods—(1) A stage of excitement. (2) A stage of tetanic convulsions, produced either spontaneously or on irritation. (3) A stage of resolution aud almost complete loss of muscular excita- bility, during which the pulsations of the sanguineous and lymphatic hearts and the respiratory movements, which had been diminished * 'Bull. Gen. de Tlier.,' lxxiv, p. 145. f ' Comp. Rend, de la Soc. de Biologie,' iii, p. 133.