172 HK PORT 0>J PR A Cir CAT, MEDICINE. sugar aud sulphuric acid. This test is not very reliable, and is seldom employed. (c) Trommcr's Test.—A certain quantity of the urine to be examined is mixed with excess of the solution of caustic potass, and a few drops of a solution of sulphate of copper arc to be added. If sugar is present the fluid assumes an azure-blue colour. When warmed, boiled, or allowed to stand for a time, the oxide of copper is reduced to a sub-oxide, which is deposited in a red-brown powder. The reaction is made known by the yellow colour which the fluid assumes; the precipitate becomes red, and finally dark brown. If the fluid is heated still more, a thin, shining coat of copper is deposited on the walls of the test-tubes. (d) Boeder's Test.—A solution of carbonate of soda or potass is added to the urine under examination. A little nitrate of bismuth is then added, and the fluid boiled. If sugar is present the oxide of bismuth falls as a black powder. (e) LbwenthaVs Test.—To the urine to be examined a mixture of tartrate and carbonate of soda and chloride of iron is to be added. If sugar is present the urine assumes a dark colour. This test is not very certain, as the fluid often assumes a dark colour when no sugar is present. (f) BaspaiVs Test.—Urine containing sugar assumes a violet colour when sulphuric acid and albumen are added. This colour may also appear when no sugar is present; it is, therefore, an uncertain test. (ff) Hungers Test.—A small quantity of urine is poured on a plate, and a drop of sulphuric acid is added, and the plate warmed over a spirit lamp. If sugar is present a dark spot appears where the sulphuric acid was dropped. This test depends on the quality a saccharine fluid has when mixed with sulphuric acid—that of becoming black upon warming. Other organic bodies have the same property as sugar, and therefore this test is not sure. Reich recommends hydrochloric acid instead of sul- phuric acid. The test has the same objection as that of llunge. ili) Maumenc's Test.—A woollen substance (merino) is moistened in a solution of chloride of tin and dried. If a drop of urine containing sugar is now placed on the merino, and then warmed, a dark spot appears. This test is very simple and convenient, as these pieces of merino are always to be had. This test also is not infallible, as other hydrocarbons besides sugar produce the same reaction. (i) Another test for sugar is that of Cutton with chromic acid, which is reduced to an oxide of chromium when sugar is present. Instead of the original red colour of the chromic acid a green colour now appears. (J) Jones's Test consists in allowing a drop of urine to evaporate, and then the deposit is to be examined for the crystals of sugar. Qe) Zwenqer's Test depends on the quality nitrate of silver possesses, when heated to 212° F. in an ammoniacal solution of grape-sugar, of forming a bright metallic mirror. For this purpose some urine is evapo- rated; to the residue, after the addition of alcohol, water is added, and then an excess of nitrate of silver. The whole is then filtered, and the filtrate saturated with ammonia. In order to render the test more certain a small amount of nitrate of silver is again added, and the whole