379 ANOMALIES OF STRUCTURE. Anomalies of Structure. Dr. Woodman describes (' Obst. Trans.,' ix) three cases in which a third nipple existed; one was hereditary. Dr. Livius Fiirst contributes a treatise on defective formations of the utero-vaginal canal (1867). Dr. Matthews Duncan describes cases of vagina duplex and vagina simplex ('Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,' 1867). Dr. H. M. Tuckwell relates three cases (' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,' 1867) of imperforate hymen. Two recovered after operation. One died, not having been operated upon. The preparation is in the Oxford Pathological Museum. It is a double sac, half formed by the dilated vagina, half by the dilated uterus thinned to the appearance of the bladder; the right Pallopian tube is much distended. Peritonitis was the probable cause of death. See also case by E. Copeman (' Obst. Trans.,'x). Dr. Gosselin relates (' G-az. des Hopitaux,' 1867) a case of absence of vagina, with retention of menstrual blood; an artificial vagina was made, and a large quantity of fluid evacuated. The patient died on the fifth day. A large quantity of chocolate-coloured fluid was found in abdomen, and recent peritonitis. A tube had ruptured, giving exit to fluid into the abdomen. Kocker (' Ztsch. f. "Wunda. u. Geburtsk.,' 1867) gives a case of recovery after puncture. On utero-vaginal atresia and stenosis, by Dr. P. Midler. A case is related, and references are made to others recorded (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867). Dr. Schroter relates (' Berl. Klin. "Wochensch.,' 1866) a case of one- sided haematometra, with a double genital canal. D. Gantwort (' Nederl. Tijdsch. v. Geneesk.,' 1867) describes a case of retention through defect of vagina, cured by making an artificial vagina and puncturing the uterus. The uterus was washed out with warm water. See also G. Huet ('Nederl. Tijdsch.,' 1867). Dr. Eggel gives ('Monatsschr. f. Geb.,' 1868) a case of congenital atresia vaginae with retention, relieved by puncture. The operation for hasmatometra is fully discussed by Eose (' Mon. f. Geb.,' 1868); he adds 5 cases observed by himself; in one there was absence of vagina; cure. Prof. E. Martin contributes a case (loc. cit.). 0. Passauer ('Berl. Klin. Wochnschr.,' 1867) describes a case of one- sided hasmatometra with double genital canal; cure by puncture. Peri-uterine Conditions.—Hcematocele; Pelvic Cellulitis ; Pelvic Peritonitis. Schramm relates a case of hematocele diagnosed by Scanzoni (' Wien. Med. Wchbl.,' 1867), who verified the decrease of the tumour by means of the callipers, applying one branch to the summit of the tumour through the abdomen, the other to the base by the vagina. H. Cooper relates ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1867) a fatal case. Section • showed pus and coagula in the recto-vaginal pouch; the abdominal ends of the tubes opened into the pouch, and made a communication with ' the uterus.