500 KEPOItT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. suffice for any demand likely to be made in any part of the metropolis or in the provinces. Syphilitic vaccination.—Dr. W. Krassilnikoff, of St. Petersburg, thus concludes a long and able paper on this subject*:—(i) When a person suffering from latent syphilitic disease is vaccinated, secondary syphilitic affections may be developed under the influence of the vacci- nation, which are shown chiefly as syphilitic exanthemata ; but primary syphilitic sores never appear at the seat of vaccination. (2) If from a person suffering with syphilis pure vaccine lymph, unmixed with the blood of the affected person, be taken, and a healthy individual be vacci- nated with it, regular vaccine vesicles are invariably developed without any syphilitic complication ensuing then or at a later period. (3) But if vaccine lymph be taken from a syphilitic person, whether the syphilis be in an active or latent condition, mixed with a little of the blood of the affected person, and a healthy individual be vaccinated with it, two diseases become developed through the same inoculation—cow-pox from the vaccine lymph, and syphilis from the syphilitic blood. (4) In such cases the cow-pox is developed first, because its incubation-stage is the shorter, and it proceeds more rapidly. Syphilis shows itself later, and appears first at the place of inoculation. (5) On the site of inoculation a sore is developed with hard edges, accompanied by swelling of the neighbouring glands ; in short, a sore with all the characters of syphi- litic chancre. (6) Symptoms of secondary syphilis follow such a sore after the lapse of the customary period, as if the infection had resulted in the ordinary manner. (7) It is hence very important to take no vaccine lymph from individuals in a doubtful state of health ; as for new-born children, lymph should never be taken from them during the period in which the symptoms of hereditary syphilis ordinarily appear. (8) When, from certain circumstances, this last rule cannot be followed, care must be taken to obtain the lymph without any admixture of blood or of any syphilitic fluid. (9) Under no circumstances must further vaccination be performed with lymph from persons suffering from clearly marked syphilis. Burial of the dead.—Dr. Eiippell concludes, as follows, an exhaustive article f on the choice of sites for cemeteries, due regard being paid to the protection of the neighbouringinhabitants from injurious gaseousema- nations, to the prevention of water-contamination, to the cost, and to the customs and feelings of the living. Cemeteries should be enclosed by a paling, hedge, or wall, which, however, need not exceed four feet in height. They should be well turfed and abundantly planted with shrubs; large trees need be planted only on that side nearest the adjacent town or vil- lage. If a well be made in'the cemetery, it should be lined with hydraulic cement. Should the water have a bad smell or taste, or be altered in ap- pearance, the further use of the well-water for drinking purposes ought to be interdicted. We, in England, should be very loath to drink such water at any time. The fact that the air of the cemetery has an ill odour * ' Deut. Zeitsclir. Staatsarznknd.,' xxvi, p. 3. f ' Vierteljahrsschr. f. gericht. u. offent. Med.,' viii, p. 23.