265 SVBPEfl IOSTEAL liKSECTTON. method iu his practice. Ia 2 of these cases there was " a most obvious reformation, not only of the condyles, but also of the olecranon." The third case terminated fatally, but was not examined after death. In the ' Gazette desHopitaux,' 1867, p. 14, M. Laroyenne, of Lyons, relates a case of subperiosteal resection of the elbow after M. Ollier'a method, i. e. with preservation of all the periosteo-capsular tissue. The operation was followed by the formation of a new ginglymoid joint, in which a reproduction of the olecranon could be plainly traced. lu an article by Dr. Hueter on the resections performed in the Royal Surgical "ELlinikum" at Berlin from the years 1862 to i865 inclusive, in ' Langenbeck's Archiv,'viii, p. 136, we find the following observations on subperiosteal resection of the elbow: i; The preservation of the periosteum is now carried out by Langen- beck in resection of the elbow with very satisfactory results. After the longitudinal incision has been made in the line separating the inner from the middle third of the olecranon, through the triceps down to the periosteum, the latter is also cut through longitudinally, and then the periosteum is freed from the olecranon with the elevator or the raspatory. At the tip of the olecranon a few strokes with the knife held perfectly horizontal are required to free the tendon completely from the bone. Thus, the triceps tendon can be preserved in the fullest possible con- nection with the fascia of the forearm. Also in the clearing of the condyles and end of the humerus large portions of the periosteum may be preserved. At the end of the operation the separation of the tendon of the brachialis anticus, together with the periosteum from the coronoid process, is of great importauce, so that the connection of the teudon with the bone is almost entirely preserved. If the periosteum be somewhat swollen and loosened, the resected bones can be extracted almost as free from all soft parts as if they had been macerated for weeks. In other cases the preservation of the periosteum can be accomplished only in a certain extent, and in some not at all. Still, some stress must be laid on this preservation, since thus the operative proceeding becomes much simpler, unpleasant lesions of the soft parts are impossible, the articular arteries hardly ever need tying, and, finally, because there ensues a much more extensive production of new bone, and therewith a much more complete new joint is formed. I have now frequently had occasion to ascertain beyond all doubt by palpation that a new olecranon had been produced. The new joint is even pro- Tided with synovia, since in the subperiosteal resection there are always large portions of the capsular membrane left behind. I have in some cases seen quite clearly synovia running out of the wound, and in a little boy who had been discharged cured after excision, some years since, I had to treat a dropsy of the new elbow-joint by painting with iodine, and ultimately by the plaster-of-Paris bandage." In the 3rd part of the 9th volume of' Langenbeck's Archiv,' p. 911 (which has only recently come to hand), there is a very interesting description by l)r. JJoutrelepont of the dissection of an elbow four years after subperiosteal resection. The condyles of the humerus had been very perlectly reproduced, and the olecranon had been reproduced to even an inconvenient extent, for it was so long and curved as some-