152 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. E. DISEASES OF TITE ALIMENTARY CANAL, PERITONEUM, ETC. Auscultation of the oesophagus is described and advocated by Dr. Hamburger ('Wien. Medizin. Jahrb.,'xv, 2, 1868). The paucity of means which we possess for diagnosing the existence and nature of oesophageal diseases makes it necessary for us to seek new resources. Of symptoms, there are but two which really point distinctively to the presence of disease of the oesophagus—viz. pain and dysphagia; and even these do not convey much information. The former of them is not often present, even if the disease be malignant, nor can we easily refer it to an exact situation when it does exist. Moreover, it occurs with far the greatest frequency in those diseases which, like hysteria, &c., are merely functional. As for dysphagia, this is even more unreliable as a symptom of oesophageal disease, and is, in fact, in the majority of instances, a merely reflex symptom of affections of more or less distinct organs, e. g. of tonsillitis, aortic aneurism, thyroid diseases, retro-pha- ryngeal abscess, cancer of lungs or pleura, diseases of the nerve-centres, &c. While, in such an organic affection as oesophageal dilatation dysphagia may be entirely absent. Hitherto the only physical means for the exploration of the oeso- phagus is the use of the sound; but this is a dangerous instrument, able to inflict at least as much harm as good. No doubt, it is indis- pensable ; but Hamburger maintains that its employment, to be safe, must be directed by the more precise information which oesophageal auscultation can afford us. Every fluid and every solid swallowed produces in its passage down the gullet a certain sound, which may be detected by applying the stethoscope or ear to the skin. The cervical part of the tube may be auscultated on the left side of the neck, the thoracic portion at the left of the spine, the patient being made to swallow a table-spoonful of water, which is preferable to solids. The oesophagus should be examined in its whole length, from the hyoid bone to the eighth dorsal vertebra. In health the stethoscope applied near the hyoid bone detects a loud gurgle, and the ear receives a shock, as if water was forcibly thrown into it. The sound is due to the sudden compression of air and water in the oesophagus; it grows fainter as we examine lower and lower down the neck. Auscultation from the cricoid cartilage to the eighth dorsal vertebra detects the sound of a small spindle-shaped body, firmly enclosed and pushed downwards by the oesophagus. The impression of the fusiform shape of the swallowed mass is quite distinct, though in- explicable ; and it is important, because we do not find it in certain diseased conditions. The ear also detects the circular contraction of the oesophagus, which is heightened when the descending body meets with any obstacle. The sound usually heard is that of smooth slippiug, and occasionally of glugging ; morbid deviations from it are easily re- cognised. The act of swallowing takes place within a short but mea- surable time, and the auscultator perceives that the morsel is carried