SUBCUTANEOUS HUFlUItE OF CONST1UCTION IN HERNIA. 303 inner and upper side of the tumour, with the nail turned outwards, and, pressing it upwards, I came to a thick superficial ring, into which I pressed the point of the thumb. This ring formed nearly a complete circle. On pressing the point still upwards, the ring yielded and rup- tured partly. I felt the crack of its rupture. The portion of the riug which remained uutorn I drove with the thumb inwards and downwards, till it was bent into an arc, with its convexity on the inner and lower side. I then renewed my attempts at taxis, but without effect. I then got a bench placed along the right side of the bed, and got on to it, so as to have more purchase; then I dilated again the above-mentioned superficial band, which was a portion of the internal column of the external inguinal ring. The right thumb having pene- trated well up it into the inguinal canal, I applied the left thumb on the outer side of the right, back to back, and made the two together run up the canal; then tried again to reduce the hernia, but again failed. Then I went round to the left side of the bed, had the patient placed transversely across it, placed myself between his thighs, and again pierced the superficial belt with my right thumb, pressing it still further upwards,then pierced another and deeper membranous belt, which I thrust upwards and so burst, and I felt the crack of its rupture ; again tried to reduce the tumour, but it would not yield." He goes on to sav that, having satisfied himself that all strangulation was now removed, he left the case for the night, and that the hernia went back sponta- neously next morning. He also mentions that his thumb was so tired by the exertions employed, that on trying to write with it he found he could not. The patient was left in bed with the thighs flexed for a few days, " in order to favour the reunion and cicatrization, or at least the diminution of the distension of the parts which had been torn and ruptured." Besides this case another is given in which strangulation of a scrotal hernia had lasted sixty hours, with copious faecal vomiting. Only partial reduction of the hernia was obtained in this way; the faecal vomiting persisted next day and the day following, with great distension of the belly, yellowness of the skin, and hiccough. Never- theless, as the pulse was full and regular instead of thready, as it had ibeen before the partial reduction, it was not thought necessary to interfere further. On the second day reduction was entirely effected, ;and after ten hours more, during which the patient was "a prey to iincessant hiccough," he was relieved by copious defecation and-re- :covered. The next case is one in which an enormous hernia had had : its peritoneal sac ruptured by the patient himself in violent efforts at !taxir«, and who was admitted in a dying condition with gangrene of the : integuments over the sac. A cutting operation was at length performed, safter vain attempts at reduction, but the patient died. The fourth case is one of inguinal hernia, in which the method by rupture of the rings I failed, and a cutting operation became necessary. But so convinced idoes Prof. Larghi appear to be of the advantage of tearing the rings over cutting them, that even when he had got the stricture exposed he spr-nt a very long time in endeavouring to rupture it with his forefinger "before inciaing it. The patient recovered. In the fifth case (one of femoral hernia) an attempt was made to introduce the finger under