MALE FERN.—DIGITALIS. 477 acid the individual tissue-elements can still be distinctly recognised in the eschar. (4) Its action results rather in a mummification than in a destruction of the tissues. (5) Not only does carbolic acid act bene- ficially upon such skin diseases generally as are treated with tar, as, for instance, eczema, but also upon lupoid ulcerations. Male-fern.—Carblom* has investigated the action of several of the chemically pure constituents of the ethereal extract of this plant, viz. filieic acid, the fixed oil, and an indifferent body of a resinous nature which exists in the oil, and can be extracted from this by repeatedly boiling with alcohol, as a greyish-brown powder. The experiments were made on cats afflicted with taeniae, and upon men suffering from the bothriocephalus, the presence of the parasites being established by finding the ova of the parasites in the faeces. The oil and the indifferent body were proved to be equally inert, even in large closes, so that the active principle of the plant would appear to be filieic acid. Given alone, this acid causes abundant loose stools, and expels (not constantly, however) fragments of the worm. Given in conjunction with sulphate of magnesia or sulphate of soda in large doses, filieic acid is inert, whilst when taken in castor oil the worm was completely expelled in three out of four cases. As, moreover, the acid is inert when given in olive oil, as it is also when given in Seidlitz powders, the alkali of which dissolves filieic acid, Carblom concludes that it is the drastic effects of the castor oil, and not the solubility of the acid in this medium, that causes the favorable results when the oil is used as a vehicle for the administration of the medicament. Dr. da Costa t gives the results of the administration of narcein in disease. He sums up his conclusions thus:—(1) Narcein acts little, or, at all events, much less than morphia, on the activity of the skin. (2) As a rule, the use of narcein produces neither headache, nausea, nor constipation. Headache and nausea are, however, sometimes observed in women. (3) Narcein causes no excitement; now and then the face is flushed; the pupils are unchanged. (4) The pulse, respiration, and temperature are not affected. (5) Narcein lessens the desire to mictu- rate rather than diminishes the quantity of urine secreted. (6) In doses in which morphia allays pain and procures sleep with certainty, narcein does neither ; in very large doses (2-3 gr.) it shows itself to be an uncertain remedy in both these respects. It is also uusuited for hypodermic injection on account of the local irritation it produces. The narcein employed was chemically pure, and was obtained from various sources. Digitalis.—Legroux % has investigated anew the action of this sub- stance, and summarises his conclusions thus:—(1) Digitalis, the active principle of which is digitalin, exercises, in all doses, a special action on the circulation. (2) If given in poisonous doses, digitalis acts directly on the heart; in therapeutic doses it appears to excite primarily the contractility of the capillary vessels, and to influence the circulatory centre only secondarily by re-establishing the equilibrium of the circu- * Virchow and Hirsch's ' Jahresber.,' 1867, i, p. 468. f ' Pennsylvania Hosp. Rep.,' 1868, i, p. 177. % 'Gaz. Hebd.,' 1867, pp. 113, 113, 164.