EJIPYJiMA. 107 expectoration. "When seen he was weak and thin, and his pulse quick. Chest dull on both sides; moist rales on both sides. His expectoration had a stercoraceous odour. He gradually sank, and on examining the body the left lung was found congested, the right more so, the lower lobe sinking in water and containing a cavity whose contents possessed a gangrenous odour. Many fibrous bands crossed the cavity. Certain of the bronchial tubes connected with those directed to this cavity ter- minated in dilated sacs, whose walls were smooth, polished, and red. They contained a red sanious liquid, in which were found a dozen irregular concretions. Most of these were flattened and irregular plates, very thin, others thicker and as if made up of more than one layer. Some had projections from them. Some of these were hard like bone, others more elastic. On examination with the microscope cavities resembling Haversian canals were discovered, and interstices filled with osteoplasts ; others, again, seemed to be made up of chondroplasts, filled with cretaceous material. On examining the cartilages of the bronchi near to the spot where these bodies were discovered it was found that these were hard and gritty when cut, owing to the presence of earthy salts. The authors conclude that the concretions were neither formed by the ossi- fication of connective tissue nor from pus, but by the bronchial cartilages, which, becoming ossified and then breaking off when projecting above the surface of the tube, gave rise to the separate portions of bone-like material encountered in the dilated bronchia. To fortify themselves in this position they cite the authority of Andral and others. Empyema. Mr. Croskery ('Dub. Quart.,' Feb. 1867) reports a case of empy- ema resulting from a subscapular abscess. There was not a good history, but when seen the child had an enormous fluctuating mass (subscapular abscess), which the author supposed to be connected with the pleura. Dr. Cuming ('Dub. Quart.,' Feb. 1868) records a case of empy- ema in a man set. 35, who had suffered pain in his left side for six months. "When seen this side was dilated, its intercostal depressions effaced, and no movement visible. Impulse of the heart on the right side. Pulse 72, full and soft on the right side, very small on the left; a similar difference existed in the carotids. As the fluid threatened to make its way through the diaphragm, although vented tolerably freely from the mouth, paracentesis was performed, after which the patient improved. It was, however, noticed that whilst the chest diminished above it remained dilated below, and that during inspiration the epigas- trium was depressed instead of elevated, and vice versa during expiration. The paralysis of the diaphragm was most noticeable on the left side. It gradually improved, and the man left the hospital, but died soon after. Dr. Hillier, writing of the empyema of children (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 3, 1867) says paracentesis thoracis is not a dangerous operation in children ; if performed early, the chances of a good result are great. The cavity should be evacuated as completely as possible without the admission of air, and then closed. If the contents become fcotid a counter-opening should be made and a drainage tube introduced.