REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 108 Injections of iodine tend to diminish foetor, but have no effect in pro- ducing closure of the cavity. Change of air, nutritious food and tonics, are the main agents in favoring recovery. Very great deformity of the chest from contraction after pleurisy in children may be completely removed if the lungs have not been too long disabled by compression. Affections of the Diaphragm. Mr. Callender contributes to the ' Lancet,' Jan. 12, 1867, the history of six cases of fatty diaphragm. We select the second of these, as being the most characteristic. The patient, a female aet. 50, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's suffering from rheumatism with heart complica- tion. For four days all went on well, when she was suddenly seized with orthopncea with great depression. She was cold, livid, and bedewed with perspiration. In an hour she was almost pulseless, her breathing entirely thoracic, her abdomen fixed and motionless. She sank rapidly. The heart was found to present marks of extensive inflammation, and was fatty. The subperitoneal tissue was filled with fat; the diaphragm was pale, except those portions which rose from the bodies of the vertebra?, the rest was mottled with fat, and presented all the usual characters of fatty degeneration. The other muscles were healthy. In each iustance given the heart as well as the diaphragm was fatty. The diaphragm is the muscle which works next hardest to the heart, and might, therefore, be expected to be frequently found fatty. The special mark of death from fatty diaphragm as contrasted with fatty heart Mr. Callender thinks to be the extraordinary breathlessness. Mr. Howard Marsh records ('Lancet,' March 9, 1867) a pendant case occurring in Mr. Paget's practice, where the diaphragm was abnormally developed, leading to difficulty of breathing and favoring death in pneumonia. Dr. Bazire, on the other hand, gives a case (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 25, 1867) of a woman set. 71, who suffered from paralysis of the diaphragm. She began in 1865 to feel a sense of discomfort about the diaphragm and a difficulty of breathing. She also lost her voice. She was always worst after a hard day's work, and was better in the morning. She had no sore throat, but her voice became weaker and weaker when speaking till it ceased to be audible. Her breathing seemed regular, and the chest movement was chiefly upwards when she took a deep breath, the epigastrium sank inwards instead of becoming more pro- minent ; whilst during expiration it bulged. She could not breathe fast without distress, but at the ordinary rate was quite able to supply enough air to the lungs. On galvanizing the phrenic the diaphragm could be made to contract. The prognosis of such cases varies. (Vide Dr. Cuming's case, previous page.) Asthma and other Spasmodic Affections. Prof. Hirtz has tried the effect of subcutaneous injections of morphia in this disease. His first patient was a young girl, handsome and intelligent, and otherwise healthy, but having monthly attacks _ of asthma. At these times respiration was so noisy as to be heard outside the room. One hundredth of a gramme of acetate of morphia was