REPORT OX SURGERY. 260 gether with means of easy locomotion, can be commanded; but, with the lower classes, I have found that the treatment by rest has been a history of failure, disease spreading from bone to bone in the smaller articulations, and, before the consolidation of a large joint could be completed, organic disease having in general invaded the liver or some of the other internal organs. This unsuccessfulness forced me, some years ago, into the discovery of this treatment by cauterization which I propose. " Having often remarked the healthy reparative action that followed the use of the potassa cum calce in sinuses in the groin, neck, and axilla, I began to introduce it into fistulas leading dowu into diseased bone, at first with caution, then more boldly; and finally, disregarding Sir B. Brodie's strong injunctions against letting potassa fusa enter a sinus, I proceeded to carry its action deeply down, converting the small contracted painful orifices into large funnel-shaped openings, and bringing the carious bone into view, and within reach of the further ap- plication of the caustic. In this manner several cases of disease of the carpus and tarsus, and of the fiat and superficial bones, were success- fully treated; the caustic being reapplied at intervals of a few days, to keep the orifices freely open until the carious bone had disappeared or was covered over with firm granulations. " In a similar manner, several cases of chronic necrosis were treated, the caustic being very freely used, destroying all foul undermined in- tegument, and leaving, after the removal of the sloughs, large, clean, circular openings, more than an inch in diameter, and extending deeply down to the sequestrum, into contact with which the caustic, in stick and powder, was freely brought. In this manner, two cases of necrosis of the fibula, very similar to each other, in which numerous openings led down to diseased bone, and where the patients were reduced to the lowest state by years of suffering, were perfectly cured within six months. " In a case of necrosis of the heel in a delicate lad, who was deformed by the effects of an old hip disease, a caustic perforation was made at each side of the heel, and the powder was brought into contact with the dead bone, until it was so removed that a catheter was passed quite through the heel, no inflammation nor constitional disturbance having been caused or excited. " I can speak with the utmost confidence of the application of this remedy in all such cases of caries affecting the superficial bones. The caustic perforations may be multiplied in proportion to the extent of the disease, respect being paid to important nerves and vessels, and care being taken not to destroy sound structure or periosteum beyond the limits of the diseased surface of the bone. Before I speak of the appli- cation of this remedy to the arrest of the early stage of joint disease, I may be permitted to allude to the important question, as to the struc- ture which is first attacked. My own opinion accords with those authors who believe that, in the great majority of cases, the disease commences in the cancellous structure of the heads of the articulating bones. That there are rare cases where it begins in synovial membrane or cartilage, and mixed ones which, seen at a later period, may perplex