REPORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 430 ■with his thumbs to such a degree that only a feeble blood-stream was felt, which from the great strength of the arterial tension could only be done by considerable force. In a few seconds the convulsions abated, the child drew a deep sigh, the face became calm, the look clear, the twitchings of the muscles ceased, and the usual stage of sleep ensued. During the compression the face became red, and after the fit he found the great fontanellc, which before was pulsating strongly, much sunken and pulsating gently. On the same day a second but much lighter fit occurred, and in the next week several more, which alternated with spasmus glottidis. The child at three and a half years was intelligent and well developed. Henoch had no doubt that the compression cut short a fit at its greatest intensity, and asks how ? Necessarily the quantity of blood carried into the head within a given time must be lessened. It is not possible to avoid pressure upon the jugulars ; but no one, he thinks, will contend that the retention of the venous blood is the cause of the quick successful result. He thinks this experiment rather proves that hyperemia of the cerebrum, as well as anaemia, may excite eclamptic fits. In cases of the latter kind compression of the carotids would naturally be useful. Henoch (loc. cit.) has some interesting remarks on partial convulsions. Spasms appearing in single groups of muscles, to be rightly appreciated, require long observation. They are frequently the first symptoms of a slowly advancing central disease, which may ultimately break out in the form of epilepsy or of plainly characterised organic disease. In infancy, especially, isolated twitchings of an arm, returning at uncertain intervals, are not seldom the first indications of tubercle in the opposite half of the brain. Henoch has repeatedly seen such twitchings, com- plete consciousness persisting, return for months 5 and in two cases, the sterno-cieido-mastoideus muscle and the orbicularis palpebrarum of the same side being also affected, suddenly complete epileptic attacks and paralysis of the affected parts took place. In such cases the electrical stream, which is praised for partial convulsions, can have no good result. Henoch observed spasmus nutans in two cases. The children were nine months old. One was rachitic, and had previously suffered from eclampsia and spasmus glottidis. In this case the nodding movements were not limited to the head, but involved the entire upper body, re- curring in very frequent attacks several times daily, and were so strong that the head sometimes was almost bent to the knees. In the other case the nodding movements alternated with lateral movements of the head, sometimes to the right, sometimes to the left. They were weakest on awaking, strongest after the child was tired. Spasmodic rotations of the eyes were frequent in both cases. There were no other disorders of health, and dentition proceeded normally. In the second case the movements began some days after a fall upon the occiput. Tepid baths and oxide of zinc soon wrought a good effect. In the other case death occurred suddenly. An undoubted case of reflex partial convulsion was the following:— A scrofulous child, seven years old, had spasm of the facial nerve of both sides. The twitchings continued during sleep. There was intense