154 REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. a case of enlargement of the oesophagus, occurring in a woman, a?t. Co, who had long heen ahlc to regurgitate her food without inconvenience' hut who latterly had several times brought up blood ; and certain of the lymphatics had become cancerous. Malignant stricture was sus- pected to be the cause of these. The woman died before a Ion" time had elapsed^ but from the effects of pulmonary oedema. The oeso- phagus was found to be enlarged, so as almost to resemble a stomach, measuring from the cricoid to the stomach 46 centimetres; the normal size being 29, or in very tall men 33 centimetres. In form the dilata- tion was spindle-shaped; its greatest width being near its lowest ex- tremity, where its circumference measured 30 centimetres, its diameter 14-2. The walls were also more than double the normal thickness. The principal share in this thickening depended on the layer of con- tractile fibres, which, as well as the longitudinal fibres, appeared to be increased in number rather than size. The stomach was healthy, and the cardia appeared normal. Fatal or Dangerous Results from Swallowing in Paralysis of the Gullet in Children. The accident of choking occurs in two forms, one from impaction of substances attempted to be swallowed in the glottis, whence they are carried into the lungs, or from sticking of a hard morsel half way down so as to compress the windpipe and cause suffocation. Gaping, laugh- ing, screaming, loud talking, &c, during eating and drinking, which cause the larynx to be elevated, and the glottis open, is the most frequent cause of choking, but it is also produced by considerable dysphagia in consequence of inflammation of the upper part of the pharynx, and especially by paralysis of the pharyngeal muscles. If the soft palate is involved there is reflux of food, especially fluids, into the nose. It is not necessary to say much of those cases in which a solid mass of food sticks at the upper part of the pharynx. One case will suffice for an illustration. A lively, quick, and intelligent child, seven years old, swallowed very hastily a rather large piece of half-cooked meat. The morsel remained sticking in the throat, the child was quite unable to swallow it, or to get the piece up again, nor could any of the friends remove it from the throat or push it down. A powerful dyspneal convulsion lasted for some minutes, the face was livid, the vessels swollen, the eyes started out of the head, and the child collapsed and died. Help was sought for on every side, but no surgeon came till twenty minutes after death. The first who arrived made an opening with an ordinary bistoury in the cricoid cartilage and attempted to inflate the lungs through a tube, but all efforts were vain. The piece of meat was found sticking in the upper part of the pharnyx, and com- pressing the larnyx, so as to completely stop the breath. Probably in such cases the use of a bougie or an oesophageal forceps might save life, if applied early enough. The same, indeed, may be said of timely tracheotomy, but the necessary time is not always to be obtained. In the cases where foreign bodies have been drawn into the larynx and the trachea in swallowing, not much need be said. In general, they are not