REPORT OX SUltGERY. 256 " I have thus accounted for 14 out of the 18 cases. The mischief in the 2 stated to have been of healthy constitutions1 originated from accident. In the 2 described as in impaired health it was idiopathic. The operation, however, was successful in all 4. " When these facts are made known and duly considered, they will, I trust, be the means of removing the dread with which these opera- tions have been hitherto regarded, and that we shall hereafter have fewer examples of primary amputation for caries of the os calcis, or other tarsal bones. Here we have 11 operations performed for caries of the os calcis, originating spontaneously in scrofulous individuals. In 2 only did the disease secondarily manifest itself in the other tarsal bones." Besides these cases, of which he produced notes, Mr. Hancock had tabulated a number of other cases, and thus describes the general result: " To consider the general results of complete excibion of the os calcis, I have been enabled to collect the particulars of 34 cases. Of these, 25 recovered completely, 4 suffered secondary amputation, 1 is reported as doing well, of 3 the result is not given, and i, though doing well as far as the operation was concerned, died of diphtheria. The cases recorded show that this operation has hitherto enjoyed a remarkable immunity from fatal results. In no single instance can we fairly assign death to its performance. We certainly cannot ascribe the case of diphtheria to it. And as for the only other case which I find recorded against it, who for one moment would be inclined to attribute to an operation a death from phthisis taking place seven years after that operation was per- formed, and seven years after the patient had not only recovered from the effects of the proceeding, but had also recovered the proper func- tions of the part ? The gravest result, therefore, has been secondary amputation. Four cases have taken place against 25 recoveries, or 16 per cent., a very strong argument indeed against the primary adoption of that proceeding." " Strongly, most strongly indeed, would I urge these facts upon those who still deny the utility of excision of the os calcis as a standard operation—who would still rather sacrifice a foot which might thus be preserved, and restored to a state little inferior to one of perfection. " And equally desirous am I that all honour should be awarded to him who, by his judicious and skilful proceedings, first established an operation so creditable to British surgery upon a sure and firm basis, and who thus conferred so valuable a boon upon mankind in general. I therefore propose that henceforth excision of the os calcis should bo designated by British surgeons ' Greenhow's operation.' " In the sequel of this lecture the results of aud indications for partial operations upon the os calcis are discussed : New operation for osseous ankylosis.—In the 'American Journal of the Med. Sci.,' April, 1868, p. 360, Prof. Gross, of Philadelphia, de- scribes a new proceeding which he has introduced for the relief of deformity proceeding from bony ankylosis of the knee. It is a modifi- cation of one which was invented by Brainard, of Chicago, and which consisted in drilling holes subcutaneously through the femur until it could be fractured, and the limb thus brought straight. Prof. Gross's