ALCOHOL POISONING AND INJURY. 329 "A young girl, between rjj and 20, would bo brought into the hos- pital in a state of insensibilty, the surface of the trunk, and of tho extremities, of normal temperature, as tested manually, expression of the countenance perfectly placid and natural, no lividity, no frowning, no twitching of the eyelids, no contraction of the mouth, nor any trace of convulsion. The respiration quite tranquil, entire absence of stertor, no peculiarity about the pulse or breath-rate. The pupils in one sense natural, in another not quite so ; that is, the pupils 'larger than they would have been in ordinary sleep, but not more dilated than they would have been had the patient been awake. This is an important point, because poisonous doses of alcohol produce dilatation of the pupils, and this want of correspondence between the size of the pupil and the apparent naturalness of the sleep is, no doubt, owing to slight alcoholic dilatation. The only other peculiarity about the girl would be her complete insensibility ; no amount of shaking, shouting, or pinching would in the slightest degree seem to arouse her; possibly, during the shaking, a slight smile would play about the mouth for a moment, caused, 1 presume, by a dream, but which, on one or two occasions, raised for the moment a suspicion in my mind that she was shamming. There has been as much uniformity in the history given by the friends of such patients, as there has been in the symptoms presented by the patients themselves. " The girl has been either actually a domestic servant, or has been, if living at her own home, acting as a domestic. The statement has alwavs been that on the previous evening (for the admission into hos- pital has almost always been before midday) there had been a great quarrel, sometimes amounting to, or terminating in, a fight between some of the other inmates of the house, the father and mother, master or mistress, or between one of these and a lodger, but that the patient herself had taken no active part in this, and had not received any blow, fall, or injury; that, either late at night, when the disturbance had ceased, or else the next morning, she had been found insensible, gene- rally not undressed, just in the condition in which she had been brought to the hospital, and which I have already described. " I was in the habit of calling this coma a form of hysteria, for want of a better name, and concluded that the agitation or fright caused by witnessing the fray had been the determining cause of this presumed hysterical attack. " In one case I remember the coma lasted for nearly, if not quite, twenty-four hours after admission, that is to say, in all for about thirty- six hours; but, generally speaking, I found that the administration of a foetid enema, with some castor-oil, emptied the lower bowel, and that soon afterwards the patient awoke. " I never observed any hysterical symptom of any kind whatsoever, nor anything else of an unnatural character, after the patient had once been thoroughly awakened. The awakening was most commonly abrupt, not gradual." Accident led Dr. Wade to a correct view of these cases, from the cir- cumstance of a servant-girl in his own family being similarly affected after having surreptitiously swallowed about 8 or 10 ounces of port wine.