REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 102 On the contrary, they are frequently developed at a very early period, and, indeed, before auy other signs of tuberculosis are noticeable. It is only the so-called " zonular" ulcers (Giirtel-geschwure) which never appear till the final stages. It is impossible to tell whether an ulcer is catarrhal, tuberculous, or syphilitic ; the only distinctive mark, if any, is the obstinacy of the tuberculous ulcers, though they do sometimes heal. Ulcers of the epiglottis are usually superficial ; when they are deeper the cartilage is soon destroyed. Little ulcers on the posterior aspect of the epiglottis give no pain unless there is much infiltration ; but there may be much dysphagia ; indeed, if the destruction of the epi- glottis be extensive, or the ulcers also attack the arytamo-epiglottidean folds and the pharynx, or extend from the true or the false cords to the posterior wall of the larynx, swallowing may become impossible. Ulcers of the vocal cords are either mere erosions, or go deeper and destroy muscle and cartilage; they are either on one side (mostly the right) or on both, in whichj case they are usually connected with each other. The edges of the ulcers often appear toothed and fringed. If the ulcer is superficial it often gives the impression of an indurated chancre. Hoarseness and aphonia are the consequences; but if the ulcers be not too large, and be shallow and defined at the edge, the voice is not altogether spoiled. The patients complain but little of pain. Mauy laryngoscopists believe in the curability of laryngeal tuber- cular affections, and especially ulcers ; but they are usually of long duration, and relapses are apt to occur (' Archiv d. Heilkunde,' 5, 1868). Croup. Dr. A. Jacobi has performed tracheotomy for croup on 67 children, with 13 recoveries; but in 5 instances the operation had no fair chance, as the patients were either dead or moribund at the time, so that the proportion oughtto be taken as 13 recovering in 62. Of children under 3 years, 1 out of j operated on recovered; of those between 3 and 4, 3 out of 16; of those between 4 and 5, 7 out of 23 ; of those between <5 and 6, 2 out of 7. The after treatment in some of the successful cases was protracted ; in 4 of these the causes of the protraction were peculiar. In the second week after operation the larynx, having ex- pelled the false membrane, would resume its natural functions, and the patient breathed normally through the tube and its upper fenestra and the larynx, the anterior opening of the tube having been corked. But the removal of the tube always caused suffocation, so that it had to be replaced. The cause of this annoying state of things was found to be the presence of small polypoid excrescences, originating on the margin of the tracheal wound—in one case on the lower portion of the sore larynx itself. It required a great many applications of nitrate of silver, or some sulphate of iron, to destroy 'them. Their disappearance in- stantly relieved the symptoms, and allowed of the final removal of the tUIn the ' American Journal' for Oct. 1868, which contains the above, there is also noticed a paper of Prof. Steiner's, which sums up the ex- perience of that high authority on the same subject.