331 IODINE INJECTION INTO GLANDS. source of no small annoyance. Anxious though she naturally was to be freed from it, she yet had so great an aversion to the use of the knife that she was very unwilling to have it excised. I therefore determined to try the effect of injections of iodine into the substance of the gland, and for this purpose used an ordinary hypodermic syringe filled with the compound tincture of iodine. The needle being carried into the centre of the tumour, the fiuid was slowly injected until it exuded from all parts of the surface, a considerable jet being thrown out by the elasti- city of the structure, when the needle was withdrawn. No pain what- ever was caused by the operation, nor did any inflammatory action follow. Seen again a week afterwards, the tumour was found to have decreased to almost half its original size. The injection was repeated, and in the course of another fortnight it had diminished to the size of a small bean, whde the new skin was fast filling up the opening. A third injection was made, followed, in the course of a few days, by the com- plete disappearance of the growth and the perfect healing of the wound, leaving an almost imperceptible scar. No symptom of iodism occurred during or after the treatment. " I have not yet had occasion to try the same mode of treatment in cases in which the skin remains unbroken; but the result of this case warrants its employment in chronic hypertrophy of the glands which resists ordinary medical treatment and external applications, especially as in such cases there would be a greater objection to excision, and the treatment would be attended with less risk of permanent disfigurement. It may also be a question whether such injections might not be era- ployed in the case of other kinds of tumours. The risk of exciting inflammation might be reduced by using at first a less strong pre- paration." In a subsequent number of the same paper, Nov. 2,1867, Mr. Coates, of Salisbury, states that he has previously tried the same treatment to a considerable extent, and with results of a most important nature. He sums up his experience of it in the following terms : " I have succeeded in curing strumous and cold or chronic abscesses without leaving scars, psoas abscess, bronchoceles (cystic and solid), ganglia, enlarged bursa? (including housemaid's knee), thick nsevi, stru- mous disease of the joints, an encysted tumour; and in one remarkable case of strumous abscesses, strumous disease of, and suppuration in, the middle joint of the forefinger, great thickening of the first metatarsal hone, and of the fifth metacarpal bone, every vestige of disease disap- peared under this treatment, aided by iodide of potassium, cod-liver oil, and iron, administered internally. The injections were thrown into the midst of each locally affected part in June, 1866. The child is per- fectly well, and, what is very interesting in this case is, that there is perfect motion of the once diseased and suppurating joint of the fore- finger. " In July, 1866, I injected into masses of enlarged glands of the neck undiluted compound tincture of iodine, in the Salisbury Infirmary, in two patients, with the effect of dissipating the enlargement in one case and of diminishing it in the other. In neither of these cases was there ulceration. I also injected, in August, 1866, the same preparation into