435 PHTHISIS. to an alarming degree. About seven weeks from the commencement a fluctuating prominence formed between the sixth and seventh ribs, and was opened with a bistoury. About a pound of completely puru- lent fluid was evacuated. This was repeated. The child quite re- covered, but the fistula remained open two and a half years afterwards. In the other case, one of right-sided, also seven weeks from the com- mencement, a fluctuating projection was formed about the right mamma, and a week later a rupture occurred through the lung, and an enormous quantity of purulent masses was evacuated by the mouth. There was a circumscribed pneumothorax. The child recovered. He relates a case interesting in etiology from the relation of the pleurisy to an eruption on the scalp. The child, nine months old, had suffered from birth from an eruption. It was admitted with eczema impetiginodes, with much foul-smelling discharge and swelling of the auricular and occipital glands. This was treated by poultices to re- move the scabs, and white precipitate ointment. In a few days the eruption was nearly healed. On the other hand, shortness of breath and rale appeared, and complete right-sided pleurisy was developed. Diarrhoea set in. The eczema reappeared on the head, and the child got well. Henoch has little to add as to treatment of pleurisy. Bleed- ing was very seldom resorted to, the exudation being already extensive when the children came under observation. He generally gave infusion of digitalis and nitrate of potash, and later quinine. There is an excellent description of the lung diseases of children in three lectures by Dr. G-. Buchanan in the 'Lancet,' 1868. Beferring to the difficulty of diagnosing phthisis, he says that, of 203 cases, in 45 a certain diagnosis could not be made on a first examination; only 2 of the 203 had spat blood when they first came under observa- tion. Flattening of the chest is only found in the rare cases where cavities are formed. The auscultatory signs are ambiguous. The most trustworthy is feebleness of respiratory murmur, with more or less coarseness of sound up to actual bronchial breathing. Brolonged expiration is seldom observed, but notable division of the inspiratory sound is more common. Percussion may be deceptive unless performed with great precautions. To get exactly comparable data, it ought to be performed on either side when the chest is equally expanded. But this condition is hard to obtain. Dr. Buchanan percusses each spot about whichhe wants information several times over through the different phases of inspiration and expiration, thus obtaining a complete average notion of the resonance and resistance of that spot before going on to another. In children under seven years he says the difference between the two apices is the reverse of that in the adult; the left side is commonly a little duller than the right. In an adult who has a tuberculous cavity the cracked-pot sound is very significant. In a young child it is worth- less as evidence of cavity, for a perfect sound of this kind may be got by sharp percussion under the clavicle of many a healthy child if it should happen to be holding its mouth open. And, lastly, when per- cussion and auscultation have established the existence of consolidation in the apex of a lung, the nature of this is open to many interpretations ; this arises particularly from the frequency of chronic and lobular pneu-