SYPHILIS. 43 of treatment; by tbis time be bad become very tbin, and had bad tertiary eruptions. He bad severe neuralgia of the stomach. The external symptoms were soon removed by local treatment, but the gas- tralgia was obstinate; the case got worse and worse, and the patient died" about three months after the commencement of the treatment, from pleuro-pueumonia. Dissection showed many ulcers in the small intestines; they were very deep, and their bases were stained with black pigment; those which had healed were represented by scars; small fibrous lumps were found in the peritoneum opposite the ulcers ; here the serous and muscular coats were thickened. The duo- denum was inflamed, and pylorus thickened ; the liver was fatty, some- what wasted at the edges, and its acini contained pigment. Besides signs of pi euro-pneumonia there were many irregular deposits scattered through the tissue of the right luDg, of the kind well known as " gummata." Prof. Gintrac reports the case of a man, set. 43, who bad suffered for two months before admission into the hospital at Bordeaux with pain at the chest and dry cough, followed in three or four weeks by mucous expectoration, slight fever, some wasting; no physical signs in the chest. It appears that fifteen years before, be had a primary sore, followed by constitutional syphilis; this was treated with iodide of potash success- fully. The symptoms recurred at various intervals before the present illness. "WTien admitted, the patient had no particular frequency of pulse ; be seemed out of sorts and slightly wasted, and the temperature was rather high. The cough was frequent; the expectoration copious, thick, and purulent; the voice not changed. Shape of the chest natural, no flattening. Percussion normal over the whole right side; on the left side, in the middle of the anterior portion of the lung, there was a clearly circumscribed spot of dulness. Auscultation by several physi- cians detected no abnormal sound and no prolonged expiration, except at the spot of dulness ; here there was cavernous breathing, mucous rattling, and pectoriloquy. Iodide of potash was given, at first 4 grains daily, increased gradually to 32 grains. After twenty days of this treatment expectoration lessened, the sounds of a cavern were greatly diminished. In about six weeks from bis admission expectoration had ceased, there were no moist rales, there was only a peculiar slight sighing, probably produced by the flattening of a bronchus. A fortnight later the patient left the hospital without cough, and apparently well; per- cussion was everywhere clear. Auscultation revealed no mischief any- where.—'Journal de Bordeaux,' August, 1867. Dr. "Wilks ('Practitioner,' July, 1868) also relates an interesting case of a gentleman, set. 40, the subject of constitutional syphilis, who was greatly wasted, and had most of the Bymptoms of consumption. He was treated with 15 grs. of the iodide and 2 grs. of quinine thrice daily. At the end of three months the auscultation signs had greatly improved, and, ultimately, Dr. "Wilks believes he was entirely cured. In the same paper Dr. Wilks relates a case in which constitutional syphilis caused symptoms closely resembling cancer. The patieut was greatly wasted, his liver immensely enlarged, and a lump the size of the fist was found lying near the pubes ; the case was at first regarded as