VESICOINTESTINAL FISTULA. 305 iufluence of chloroform, as without it it was impossible to keep the child quiet. As the needle perforated the abdominal wall, a quantity of clear fluid escaped, showing that the peritoneum had probably been punctured, as there was no hydrocele. The child was feverish and restless on the following two days; on the third day slight erysipelas of the integument of the abdomen set in, and I removed the plug by cutting the ligatures." It<is not necessary to give the subsequent particulars. The child recovered, and during the three weeks that he was under observation the hernia did not protrude at all, though he was constantly crying, and the opening appeared to be perfectly closed. The time, of course, is far too short to allow of any opinion being formed as to the perma- nence of the cure; but the fact of recovery having been speedy and complete, though the peritoneum has probably been penetrated by the ligature, is interesting. At the same time the great tolerance of the natives of India for surgical operations is to be remembered. In the ' New York Medical Record' will be found the report by Dr. Krackowizer of a case of vesico-intestinal fistula, presented to the Xew York Pathological Society, March 13, 1867, and bearing a con- siderable resemblance to one under the care of the present compiler, to be found in the 49th and 50th vols, of the ' Med-.Chir. Trans.'* The patient, a man, set. 28, had occasionally passed worms from the urethra since he was eight years old, and sometimes the seeds of fruit. Still he was in perfect health, and had served in the army during the late war, till discharged on account of a wound. After this he got married, soon after which all the symptoms of stone began to show themselves, with much tenesmus, and passage of urine from the anus. The urine con- tained a moderate sediment of muco-purulent matter. With regard to the part of the intestine affected, Dr. Krackowizer concluded from the symptoms during life that the fistula communicated with the small intestine. " I suspected that this connection must be between the smaller intes- tine and bladder, as there never had been the least show of any broken- down faecal matter in the evacuations; they were, on the contrary, always liquid; and when they were allowed to stand, a bran-like sediment from epithelium and mucus, stained with bile, settled at the bottom of the vessel. " Moreover, he never passed any flatus per urethram, an occurrence so characteristic where the fistula exists between the bladder and the large intestines. " In order to make out a direct connection between the bladder and gut, I thought it well to inject some coloured substance into the organ, and watch the effect. There being no other available colouring substance at hand, I employed some wash-bluing, under the impression that it was composed of the cyanuro-cyanide of iron. I make a dilute solution of this, and while the anus was distended I injected 12 ounces into the bladder ; but when I opened the stopcock of the catheter, so as to allow the liquid in that organ to escape, none came. The injection then must * See the last Retrospect, p. 314. 20