REPORT ON SUHGEKY. 212 related in. the 'Transactions of the Clinical Society,' i, pp. 118—■ 121, by Mr. II. Lee and Mr. J. W. West. The arteries were found firmly sealed with coagulum at the divided end. In Mr. Lee's case death took place five days after the operation ; the femoral artery had been secured for three days. In Mr. West's case death took place fifty-six hours after amputation, the needle below the femoral not having been removed. In the former case the presence of the'needle had produced slight ulceration, not perforating the vessel. Neither Mr. Lee nor Mr. West had ever seen primary union after acupressure. On the other hand, the experience of some surgeons has not been so satisfactory. In relating two cases of amputation under Mr. Willett's care at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the 'Lancet,' May 25, 1867, the reporter says: "Attention is being directed just now at several of the metropolitan hospitals to the use of acupressure as a means of commanding vessels after operation, and the method seems likely to meet with such a trial as will determine whether its advantages are such as to bring about its more general employment. Without attempting as yet to pronounce any opinion on this point, we have already seen enough to convince us that the rapid and efficient application of the method necessitates some considerable acquired or natural dexterity—more, undoubtedly, thau the employment of a ligature." The first of the cases was an amputation of the thigh, in a patient jet. 35, where great distension of the flaps (from exudation of blood) followed the operation, and one of the pins (13 of which were used) got buried in the stump, and could not be found. The search for this caused some bleeding. At the date of the report, five weeks after the amputation, the patient was sufficiently recovered to leave his bed. Tlie other case was au amputation of the leg in a man of feeble power, for disorganization of the ankle-joint, in consequence of a wound. A portion of the anterior flap sloughed, and there was extensive sup- puration. In alluding to the first case, Mr. Willett said the drawback to its suc- cess was caused by the circumstance that two of the pins became com- pletely buried in the wound, owing to the great distension of the stump which followed the operation, one remaining lost up to the present time. Haemorrhage following so closely upon the search made for the missing pins was, without much doubt, induced by that step; and although there existed no cause for alarm, still the patient's convalescence would be retarded, and the wound prevented from healing soundly, so long as the pin continued in its present situation. The occurrence of sloughing of a portion of the flap in the last case was no more than might have been expected, for the vitality of the parts had been much impaired by an attack of diffuse inflammation with sloughing of subcutaneous tissue before the operation. Excepting the incidents stated, these patients progressed as favor- ably as would have been anticipated had ligatures been used instead of pins, whilst no advantage had resulted from the proceeding adopted. In the 'Lancet' for May 18, 1867, Mr. Callender speaks as follows: "Acupressure was practised on the 13th of April last by Sir J. Simp-