AUSCULTATION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 153 perpendicularly downwards. It is necessary to observe—(i) the sound of deglutition, (2) the shape of the morsel, (3) the energy of the con- traction, (4) the rapidity with which deglutition is effected, and (5) the direction in which the morsel is propelled. In disease the following points are to be noted:—(1) As to the sound, this is often quite absent—a fact which denotes serious altera- tions. If the sound is heard down to a certain point, and then sud- denly ceases, we may safely conclude the existence of one of the fol- lowing lesions—rupture of the oesophagus, foreign body, possibly a dilatation, or most frequently stricture. At the same time we learn the seat of lesion. A iaint friction sound, added to the slipping sound, indicates diphtheritic processes (which may occur in the course of puerperal, typhoid, or exantheinatic diseases), fibroid or polypoid excres- cences, pustular eruptions in the oesophagus, large ulcerations with detached lower margin, or spasmodic dysphagia. A slightly lohistling or hissing sound was heard in a case of rupture. A rustling sound is sometimes heard in pseudo-membranous processes, and ceases after vomiting. The ordinary murmur may be accompanied by a metallic sound in pneumothorax of the left lung. A sputtering and running noise replaces the normal sound in considerable dilatation and relaxation of the tube, in callous strictures when the muscular fibres are much compressed and atrophied, in paralysis, and in all those protracted catarrhs accompanying ulcers and new formations which cause relaxa- tion of the muscular coat by serous imbibition. Sonorous regurgitation takes place in cases of recent stricture, especially in the spasmodic and paroxysmal form. A scratching sound may be artificially produced by the laryngeal probe, and, heard by the stethoscope, is of great import- ance in determining the exact seat of the affection. (2) Alterations in the shape of the morsel always occur when the contraction of the tube is nil or unenergetic, and when the shape of the oesophagus has become changed. (3). The energy of muscular contraction may be increased or diminished: the former occurs in impeded deglutition; the ear perceives a forcible contraction just above the seat of the impediment. Increased energy of contraction sometimes gives a feeling of jerk or blow to the ear when the morsel arrives at a certain spot; this points absolutely to an ulceration, erosion, pricking body, or otherwise inflamed part, though it is very difficult to localise this exactly. (4) Rapidity of deglutition is never increased; it is nearly always diminished. (5) Deviation of the morsel to one side is rare; it may happen when disease of neighbouring organs exerts pressure. More often there is simple regurgitation of the morsel, which may be complete; it may happen immediately or after some delay ; even in the latter case there is no act of vomiting. Or the regurgitation may be partial, the morsel goino- back a little way and then descending again. Hamburger noted this in cases of small excrescences, slight callosities, obstruction from tuber- culous bronchial glands, and incipient stenoses. Noisy regurgitation has been occasionally heard, e. g. in stenosis of the cardia, opposite the seventh and eighth'dorsal vertebra?. The oesophagus must only be auscultated when the stomach is empty. Luschka, of Tubingen (' Virchow's Archiv,' xlii, 4, p. 473) describes