190 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. scries of processes which together constitute modes of growth, and that these modes are many—e.g. scrofula, rheumatism, health, syphilis, tuberculosis, rickets, and so on. (3) That "morbid" states, taken severally, such as bronchitis, meningitis, lichen, eczema, heart diseases, kidney diseases, &c, are most frequently terms or members of such series; their serial con- nection being, however, often overlooked, and they themselves regarded as self-consistent disorders. (4) That these series are themselves again capable of comparison, and, as in the case of scrofula and rheumatism, for instance, are often curiously related. (5) Classification by the natural method must be founded, therefore, on a perception of these serial relations, and on the natural affinity they reveal, and must, indeed, be the expression of them. An artificial system, on the other hand, will be based on separable attributes of size, locality, appearance, duration, &c, which cannot necessarily be distinctions of kind. (6) Finally, then, the study of skin diseases is especially fitted for the working out of such a natural method as this, and is deserving of much attention. Speaking of the exact condition of our knowledge of skin diseases, the same writer says, "We are thus far, then, in our efforts of con- structive grouping:" (1) We have classed in families and named our elementary lesions, such as ulcers, vesicles, &c, though, of course, each family contains many varieties. (2) We have noted their varying relations to each other, and we have made groups in accordance with observed modes of such varia- tions—eczema, lichen, psoriasis, &c. There remain yet two efforts of synthesis to be made. (3) To ascertain whether these affections have a place in the evolu- tion of general maladies, and if so, what place and what specific names they are to receive in accordance therewith. (4) Last, and also least, we have to note varieties. To illustrate these directions of thought, Dr. Allbutt next selects a case of that common affection, eczema. A. B—, set. 63, whose father suffered from gout, and died of effusion of blood into the brain, presents himself with a large eczematous patch upon the outer side of the calf of the left leg. He says that the patch sometimes disappears, but it always returns in the same place, and on each reappearance it exudes a little clear fluid. When the affection of the leg recedes he often suffers from bronchitis. During adult life he has been liable to acid eructations and to turbidity of urine, also for many years to piles. He is liable also to dizziness in the head, to low spirits, and to intercostal neuralgia. Never had a frank attack of gout. There are nodules in the edges of the ear; the arteries are a little rigid to the touch, and the second sound of the heart is a little too clear and loud. The urine is generally of low specific gravity, and contains traces of albumen. On examining the eczema we find, not a pink, creeping, sweating, and itching patch, but a claret-coloured, fixed, dry,