433 I.UXn-lNPLAMMATIONS. treating infantile pneumonias ('Jcmrn. f. Kinderk.,' 1867). In lobar or croupous pneumonia lie follows Ziomssen and Stcfien. In the stage of hyperemia Miiller employs cold lotions. If the hyperemia is great and the strength good he applies leeches. When hepatization has begun all bleeding is bad. Digitalis is most often useful. In the stage of resolution medicines are seldom called for. In catarrhal pneumonia Muller urges that, being generally secondary, the first care is prophy- laxis. It is of the utmost importance to prevent accumulation of mucus in the air-passages. Hence Muller insists upon emetics, and iipon ipecacuanha as the best. Henoch (loc. cit.) discusses at length the question whether in every case the catarrhal form of pneumonia can be diagnosed from the crou- pous. He answers in the negative, and gives cases in illustration. Clinical as well as anatomical observation proves that between the well- characterised cases of croupous-lobar and of broncho-pneumonia there is an intermediate form which cannot be distinguished clinically. In the treatment of bronchitis and pneumonia Henoch insists upon the use of leeches, even in very young children, so long as the temperature of the skin is elevated and the state of the strength permits. He says he has too often been convinced of the good effect of leeches in the febrile con- dition not to avail himself of them in proper cases. Bad results, espe- cially collapse, he has never seen where proper care has been taken. Of 30 cases of croupous pneumonia referred to in his memoir 6 ended fatally. But, says he, for the comfort of those of his colleagues who might accuse him of Vampyrism, none of these were treated with leeches. On the other hand, he relates several cases in which the beneficial action of leeches seems decided. The other remedies consisted in infusion of ipecacuanha with nitrate of potash. If the fever were high, with great dyspnoea and extension of disease to the smaller bronchi, tartarized antimony was given, provided the intestinal canal was sound and the strength fair. In the croupous pneumonia he only used antimony when there was great bronchial catarrh, and then with infusion of digitalis and nitrate of potash. He speaks most favorably of the use of girdles wrung out in tepid water applied to the chest and neck. Henoch (loc. cit.) in catarrh and inflammation, of the nasal mucous membrane, whether syphilitic or not, extols as a local application the brushing with a solution of potassa. He describes cognate cases under the name pseudo-croup. This attacks children from nine months to seven years old. A child, either quite well or with a slight nasal catarrh, starts out of sleep, with anxious shriek and crying; the inspi- ration has the characteristic croupous clang. The play of the scaleni and ahe nasi bespeaks the difficulty of breathing. The fit soon subsides, and may be repeated next night, all that remains being the rough clang of the respiration, sometimes heard only during crying or strong inspi- ration. Almost always a nasal catarrh becomes developed, or even a alight tracheal catarrh. More rarely pain in the larynx and fever arise. Henoch believes this form of pseudo-croup has nothing to do with the larynx. The clear resonance of the cry, persistent in many cases, indicates the integrity of the cordro vocales, whilst the croupous inspi-