MUSCLE. Other researches of Lnd. Hermann indicate that in the act of muscular contraction, as well as in the peculiar condition of post-mortem rigidity, chemical changes identical in their nature take place, result- ing in'the disintegration or splitting up of some complex substance, previously present in the muscle, into a fixed acid (usually the lactic), carbonic acid, and myosin, the latter constituting a gelatinous excretion or deposit. Identical changes, only far slower and more gradual, occur throughout life, even when the muscle is in the state of so-called rest, but they are immediately accelerated by the application of any stimulus to the' muscle; and if the disintegration be continuous, without ccetaneous and corresponding nutritive processes tending to the oxidation and restitution of the muscular substance, tetanus or rigor mortis must occur. In the act of making a transverse section of a muscle a violent mechanical stimulus is applied, which causes its most superficial or external layer to be destroyed and to pass into the stiff- ness of tetanus. By the same act we also accelerate in a high degree the ordinarily slow changes taking place during life in a number of layers lying successively more and more distant from the surface of section ■ but it is highly probable that the disintegrating processes, after attaining a certain degree of inteusity in any single layer, pro- gresses afterwards more and more slowly till complete tetanus or stiffening occurs. Hence the layer undergoing most active change, after the lapse of a short time, will not be the most external one, but some layer situated at a greater or less distance from the surface of the section. Ou theoretical grounds M. Hermann thinks it probable that those parts of the muscle which are undergoing active disintegration behave themselves negatively to those which are undergoing the same changes more slowly, and he gives various proofs that by accelerating the dis- integrating processes any chosen part of a muscle may be made strongly electro-negative to the rest. The acceleration can be easily accom- plished by raising the temperature of the given part to ioo° F., whilst the remaining parts are kept at the ordinary temperature of the air; the part so warmed is invariably powerfully electro-negative to the rest of the muscle. M. Hermann has shown that an electric current can be made evident in a fermenting fluid, passing from the substance under- going fermentation towards the ferment. This he demonstrates by constructing one of the poles of a galvanometer of a piece of cheese, and immersing it in a solution of milk-sugar, in which the other pole, made of an indifferent substance, is also plunged. In this instance, it will be observed, there is a decomposition of a complex substance (milk sugar) under the operation of a ferment (cheese), one of the results being an acid (lactic acid), conditions which are essentially analogous to those occurring in that splitting-up of muscular and nervous tissue which is constantly taking place both in life and after death. In accordance with this it may be shown that of two layers of muscular substance in juxtaposition to one another, that one which is under- going disintegration more rapidly than the other, and which therefore acts upon the latter as a ferment, will be electro-negative to the more slowly decomposing layer, and more energetically so in proportion to