REPORT ON SURGERY. 242 succeeding the injury the patient detected a hard, movable, rather large, round flat body in the joint, which he could move hither and thither. He called the attention of his medical attendant to it, who immediately pronounced it a " loose cartilage." He remained in bed about seven weeks, undergoing the usual treatment for the removal of the fluid from the joint, but without much result. Then he was allowed to get about, which he managed to do, though only limping. "When the loose body was in the external part of the joint it caused little inconvenience, but when it got inside the patella the patient suffered great pain, and could not put his foot to the ground. He was admitted into hospital three months after the accident. The joint was then slightly inflamed, but by complete rest and bandaging this sub- sided in about six weeks, and then the foreign body was extracted by an incision about two thirds of an inch long, made directly down to it, the skin having been previously displaced, so that the skin wound should not afterwards coincide with that into the capsule of the joint. A few drops of synovia escaped. The limb was immediately put up in a plaster of Paris splint. He recovered without any bad symptoms, and was discharged sixteen days after the operation. He could then walk without limping, but bent the knee carefully, and avoided extreme flexion. Flexion was only possible as far as a right angle, and was accompanied by a peculiar dull crepitus, particularly plainly felt when the hand was applied to the back of the femur. The sensation was as of a hard and rather smooth body gliding off another. The body removed from the joint presented a slightly convex and perfectly smooth cartilaginous surface above, and a rough but almost perfectly flat bony plate below. It was almost exactly circular, except a sharp process sticking out of one side of it, and it measixred about 19 mm. in diameter. It was perfectly clear that it was a broken portion of the femur, since the cartilaginous surface was perfectly smooth, while the bone presented the sharp edges and open cancelli of a fracture. On comparing it carefully with the bones of individuals of about the same size, Prof. Volkmann satisfied himself, by the radius of the curve and the form of the surface, that it was a portion of the inner condyle. Microscopical examination confirmed the conclusion that it was a portion knocked off the healthy femur. The fracture is attributed to sudden flexion and adduction of the joint (from falling in a sitting posture on the heel), driving the tibia forcibly against the convexity of the inner condyle. A case of injury to the chest, with fracture of several ribs, in which a fragment of necrosed rib was found encapsuled in the lung three years after the receipt of the injury, is related by Mr. Bruce in the ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xviii, 33. Osteo-aneurism.—In the 'Pathol. Soc. Trans.,' xix, 349, is an account by Mr. Bickersteth of a case of tumour of the tibia, believed to be aneurismal, for which amputation was performed. There were no appearances of cancer, and Messrs. Adams and Bryant, who report on the specimen, also look on it ns aneurismal merely 5 but the operation