31 UltlNE. carry on the acts of circulation, respiration, &c. Eanke, who has made an extensive series of experiments, found that in fasting, or on non- nitrogenous diet, the quantity of urea sank to 264 grs. per diem, whilst with full meat diet it amounted to 1332 grs., the maximum being to the minimum as 1 to 5. Nearly all the urea of the food is thus elimi- nated; on change of diet, however, variations occur, and it is not till after the lapse of a few days that the quantity again becomes constant. Seegen* endeavours to show that, whilst a large proportion of the nitrogen of the food which is not applied to the nutrition of the tissues is eliminated by the urine and fasces, there is a certain, and not inconsiderable, amount which must leave the body in the gaseous state. The addition of a small quantity of soda, or of carbonate of soda, to the food, greatly increases the quantity of urea, and therefore of nitrogen, eliminated. ttbine. In some experiments by Verson and Klein f the influence of common salt on the animal body was investigated. They found that an almost entire absence of salt, consuming only about 20 grains instead of 386, the usual amount, caused a diminution in the amount of urea excreted, but increased that of the uric acid. Both at the beginning of the ex- periment and also on returning to the use of salt there was a dimi- nished excretion of urine, notwithstanding that, in the latter case, more water was ingested on account of thirst. Gr. MeissnerJ has investigated the origin of the uric acid in the urine of birds. He quotes Zalesky's § observation that, in 97 grammes of the blood of the goose, and in 43 grammes of that of the fowl, he was unable to discover any uric acid, which, with other circumstances, led him to support the view, already propounded in 1848 by Strahl and Lieberkiihn, that urea was formed at the kidneys. Meissner, however, operating on larger quantities (300—550 grammes, drawn from several fowls), obtained amounts of uric acid equivalent to about 0*031 per 1000 of blood, which, though small, he yet considers sufficient to explain the amount excreted per diem by a fowl, if a calculation be made of the amount of blood which traverses the kidneys in that space of time. Besides the blood, Meissner examined other organs of the bird, and found notable quantities of urea in the liver. In one experiment he obtained 0*31 gramme from 500 grammes of liver; in another, 014 gramme in 298 grammes. Cloetta, however, as well as Stokvis and Scherer, had already shown the presence of uric acid in the liver. Other organs of the bird, as the muscles and lungs, contained no uric acid, or only traces of it; and hence he draws the conclusion that the liver is the chief seat of the formation of uric acid in the animal body. In further experiments, || made to determine the place of origin of the * ' Sitzungsber. d. Wien. Akad./ lv, ii, p. 357. + Ibid., p. 627. % • Cbi.,' 1868, p. 226. § Ibid., 1865, p. 202. || Ibid., 1868, p. 275.