IlEPOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 104 of breath, the cough was more harking; mucus and small pieces of membrane were ejected. Suddenly the distress of breathing became much more severe, and a piece of membrane 15 inches long and with branches corresponding to the bronchi was ejected. The patient was now very much exhausted ; pulse 140 ; cough dry and without clang, breathing freer. At 1 p.m. two more pieces of membrane were ejected, the cough was looser, and the breathing noiseless. In the evening the patient slept from time to time, the cough was loose, and the breathing easy and 40 per minute; pulse, 140; great apathy. Next day the patient slept several times, only waking to expectorate now and then, finally, the cough departed and the patient was practically restored to health ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 138, p. 313). Dr. Hermann Beigel writes strongly as to the value of inhalation of atomised fluids in croup. He recommends, from personal experience, bromide of potassium and lime-water • the former of these was employed with marked success by Schnitzler; the latter was strongly recom- mended by Dr. Geiger, of Philadelphia, Professor Biermer, and many others. The solution of bromide employed is 10 grains to the ounce of water ; the lime-water is used 1 part to 30 of water; this is said to have a powerful effect in dissolving the false membranes. Another remedy capable of being used in the form of spray is tannin, employed by Barthez and Trousseau with great success in causing ejection of false membrane. "Watery vapour has been employed in croup by Macintosh and Budd ; and oxygen was given, by inhalation, by Miguel in the case of an infant of 21 months with remarkable success. Beigel thinks that in all cases of croup it will be advisable in the first place to apply the medicated sprays, these being very easily obtained, and the apparatus being always in readiness. (Beigel recommends and figures a simple modification of Bergmann's apparatus, with a long vulcanite terminal tube.) As regards the order of merit of the atomisable remedies for croup, he places lime-water first, tannin second, and bromide of potassium third (' Practitioner,' August, 1868). Treatment of Catarrh of the Larynx. Dr. G-erhardt writes upon this subject. In those cases which are often attributed to cold, but are really as frequently produced by a continuous hot and dry temperature, and are accompanied with tumefac- tion of the lining of the larynx, the inhalation of almost any liquid, such, for instance, as a very weak solution of salt, will often cure. If the tumefaction is great, tannin or alum solution will be better. In the more acute forms, accompanied with hoarseness, pain, and irritation, and sometimes with difficulty of breathing, with abundant secretion, as in drunkards, tubercular subjects, scrofulous and syphilitic patients, we must use insufflation of astringent powders, such as alum or sulphate of copper, or the local application of a spray of nitrate of silver. In the catarrh which comes from fatigue of the voice, the baths of Ems, Selters, and Soden are very useful. The muscular weak- ness which is so common is treated by solution of caustic ammonia, taken in sugared water. In catarrh depending upon au old bronchitis turpentine inhalations are the best. Where the irritation is due to