161 TYPHLITIS STJSttCOltALIS. creased. Later, as much may be taken as the child pleases. It generally happens that at the beginning they refuse this kind of flesh. It should then be mixed in soup, or in the child's most favorite drink. A little trouble and pains must be taken, and after a time children, who at first refused the food, will take it with great appetite (' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' May and June, 1868). Typhlitis Stercoralis. This affection, winch is also sometimes called simply typhlitis, is a disease only lately heard of under these names. It used to be con- founded with other affections, but is now recognised as an independent and peculiar disease. Dr. Bierbaum relates the following case :—A child, set. 12, strong and healthy, had taken some vegetable soup, when it was attacked with pain in the belly and a sense of severe pressure in the hypogastrium. The following day there was also vomiting. On the third day, the pain rather having increased than diminished, medical advice was sought. The child was now constantly lying on its back and had its right leg drawn up. There was continuous pain, occasionally becoming more severe, and causing the child to cry out. In standing or walking the child bent the body over to the right side and had great pain in putting out the right foot. The pain was in the right ischial fossa and extended further downwards to the right groin. In the right hip-joint there was a soft, circumscribed, sausage-like swelling, which was painful on handling. The belly was moderately distended, not painful on pressure; there was constipation, furred tongue, bad taste in mouth, no appetite, excited pulse, but no elevation of temperature, nor headache, whilst sleep was prevented by the j)ain. The painful swelling was ordered to be rubbed with an ointment of althea and oil, and covered with Lint. Magnesia was given internally. The next day three fluid stools occurred, pain was diminished, and the tumour was hardly painful on touch and seemed also softer. There was a certain amount of flatus, the tongue was hardly improved, the temperature was raised, the head and face was strongly perspiring, the rest of the body only sbghtly so. The next day half an ounce of castor oil taken in emulsion produced three stools which contained a round worm. The pain and the swelling in the right ischial fossa was still further lessened, but there was still some tenderness here. On the next day to this the child had resumed the natural attitude of lying on one side and then on the other, the right foot could now be stretched out straight, and there was no pain in walking, the body was also held upright in stand- ing, the appetite„was improved, although the tongue was still coated, the temperature was normal, hands cold, pulse slightly quickened and contracted, the bowels confined, urine clear and free and somewhat red. On the following day the child was convalescent, after the bowels had been moved with difficulty by half-an-ounce dose of castor oil. Its health has since been perfect. Typhlitis stercoralis consists in severe inflammation of the mucous membrane of the ca?cum, and of the ascending colon. It is caused by large accumulations of faxes, or other foreign matters, in 11