a BLOOD. II Baud i, 1868, p. 395. red corpuscles in the apyreneemata, contends that they are exceptional, and reiterates his previously expressed statement, that the red corpuscle of the apyrenaemata is quite a peculiar bod}', without a known equivalent or homologue. Schmidt and Schweigger-Seidel,* whilst maintaining that the granules which appear in blood-corpuscles subjected to the action of chloroform are not nuclei, as stated by Rollett, found that blood-corpuscles placed in vacuo and carefully watched presented no movements. Fried- reich^ on the other hand, relates a case of albuminuria in which the red corpuscles discharged with the urine presented, at a temperature of about 6o° Fahr., amoeboid movements, throwing out processes and undergoing division for no less than 14 hours after expulsion from the bladder. He thinks these movements may also be found to occur in the red corpuscles of healthy and freshly drawn blood. Experiments upon the gases of the blood have been conducted by Ludwig and Schmidt,;}; who corroborate the view generally entertained, that the carbonic acid of the blood is in part derived from the disintegration of the muscular tissue, the quantity being always greater in blood returning from muscles in action than from those at rest. Though it is probable that much of the carbonic acid of the blood is contained in solution in the liquor sanguinis, combined with the alkalies as a bicarbonate, and in union with the phosphate of soda, yet it appears from other experiments of Schmidt § that this gas is to a certain though small extent combined with the constituents of the blood-corpuscles. Briicke [| maintains with Richardson that blood at ordinary temperature exhales a little ammonia. The latter author, however, has withdrawn his statement to the effect that the coagulation of the blood is dependent on the exhalation of the ammonia it contains. In the December number of * Pfliiger's Archiv fur Physiologie'^f is contained an interesting essay, by M. Preyer, on some of the peculiari- ties of haemoglobin, which is the principal constituent of the red corpuscle, and methsemoglobin. He states that up to the present time the crystal- line forms assumed by haemoglobin are only known, or at least have only been described, in 47 vertebrates, notwithstanding the facility with which this constituent of the blood can be obtained. The crystals are transparent, of silky lustre, pleochromatic (red and green), and almost always of soft consistence, and on pressure break with jagged edges, or, when the pressure is severe, into fine particles, which present Brunonian movements, and, curiously enough, like the original crystals, refract light doubly, although the blood-corpuscles themselves are only singly retractile. Though soft, the crystals are not extensile nor flexible. The specific gravity of haemoglobin may by calculation be approximately estimated at from i'i to 1*3. He gives good drawings of the spectrum of haemoglobin in the oxidized and reduced state. Oxidized haemoglobin has the proper- ties of a weak acid. It dissolves in very different degrees in water, accord- * ' Sitzungsber. der Sachs Akad.,' 1867. t 'Virchow's Archiv,' 18G8, xli, p. 395. X • Centralblatt,' 1868, No. 32. § ' Arbeiten aus der Physiolog. Inst, zu Leipzig,' 1868, p. 30. II ' Centralblatt,' 1868, No. 14.