105 TREATMENT OF CATARRH OP THE LARYNX. inflammation of the larynx, Gerhardt regards the narcotics, such as henbane, belladonna, &c, as necessary besides the local treatment. Gerhardt mentions chlorate of potass as a very useful remedy in catarrh of the larynx. He has known it succeed in syphilitic cases where mercury has failed to arrest ulceration. He thinks, indeed, that mercury often causes a laryngeal affection which chlorate of potash is necessary to remove ('Journ. Med. de Bruxelles'). Professor Steiner, of Prague, discusses the so-called " dry catarrh " of the air-passages of children. This disease is sufficiently common in adults, and has already been well described by Laennec; but it also appears in childhood, and arises spontaneously in the continuations of the larger into the smaller bronchial tubes ; emphysema, usually, soon occurs. In the cases observed by the author there was no sign of hooping-cough, neither did dissection reveal any other affection but the changes of dry catarrh. In two cases there were found ab the posterior and dependent parts of the lungs islands of collapsed tissue; at the edges, and here and there on the surface, emphysematous patches. The bronchial mucous membrane, from the bifurcation to the bron- chioles, was hyperaemic and much swollen, but without secretion. The lymph-glands were hyperplastic, dark red, and in some cases caseously transformed; in the brain passive hyperemia and slight serous effusions were observed; there was general ansemia. The symptoms and cause of the disease were as follows:—Difficult breathing, with special exertion in expiration, respirations 40—48. Restlessness, as in laryngeal croup, impossibiHty of lying down. The breathing, both during sleep and also in condition of prostration, was accompanied by a hoarse and noisy expiration sound. Frequent repeated irritative cough, with violent attacks of coughing, differing from those of pertussis in lacking the spasmodic inspiration, the rattling of mucus, and the vomit- ing, which are typical of the latter. Cough dry and shrill, without rales and without sputa, even after the disease had lasted weeks or months. Percussion gave everywhere a clear, full, more or less tympanitic sound ; on auscultation hoarse vesicular breathing and dry rhonchus were heard. Usually there was little fever ; the temperature was often below that of health, but the pulse was quickened, 130 to 140. Emaciation and ansemia occurred in the later stages; death occurred with the appearances of hydrocephalus. Dry catarrh of childhood is a very obstinate and chronic affection, nearly always proving fatal; it lasts some months. The cases observed by the author were among the poorer classes, and rickets and measles had in several cases preceded the catarrh. Treatment.—The conditions of the dwelling must be improved ; moist sea air is beneficial, and the inhalation of plain watery vapour. The secretions must be aided by the alkaline waters of Bilin, Giesshubel, Gleichenberg, or Ems, alone or with milk and whey. Emetics are useless. The irritative cough is to be treated with narcotics—opium, laurel-water, or belladonna ; and cod-liver oil is to be given to improve respiration and nutrition (' Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1, 2, 1868).