62 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. systematically and in considerable quantity, Johnson is peculiar in ignoring the value generally attributed to single enemas containing a very few drops of opium in a small quantity of starch, which are so frequently administered with the intention of checking a diarrhoea which seems to be getting severe. Sir "W. Jenner, for instance, mentions this latter treatment with approval ('Med. Times and Gazette,' July 27, 1867), while condemning the routine use of opium in typhoid, which he will not sanction either as a remedy for the diarrhoea or for the irritation of the chest when bronchitic complications are present. He also mentions another very important point of treatment, as regards the management of kidney complication, which is more than ordinarily fatal. For this very serious affection he recommends the application of gentle local stimulation by warm poultices and hot fomentations, which may tend to restore the circulation which, from its weakness and the long maintenance of the dependent position of the parts (for renal com- plications mostly occur towards the end of the fever), has become pas- sively congested. He condemns the use of stimulant diuretics, such as cantharides. Dr. Murchison also takes a very different view from that of Dr. G-. Johnson as to the import of diarrhoea in typhoid, and the desirability of directly interfering with it. He considers that its continuance is emi- nently depressing, and ought not to be allowed. The mineral acid treat- ment, which Johnson speaks of as a frequent cause of unnecessary irritation of the intestines, is for Murchison an important element in the treatment, and a means of limiting the tendency to diarrhoea. Dr. Liebermeister describes the general results of treatment of typhoid fever at Bale during the epidemic which lasted through the years 1865, '6, and 'j. Between August, 1865, and the end of 1867, 1178, cases were treated, with 168 deaths, or 13-8 per cent. This mortality is much more favorable than that prevailing in epidemics of earlier years at the same hospital, although many circumstances, such as unavoid- able overcrowding, were adverse to success. He describes the effects of a variety of treatments, of which it is unnecessary to mention any except those by calomel, by iodine, and by the cool bath. Calomel was given usually in 10-grain doses once, twice, and sometimes even six times daily, and, although it sometimes at first increased diarrhoea, its continuance usually stopped this. Usually, but not always, the temperature fell soon after the first dose. Salivation occurred in a few cases, but only slightly. Iodine alone, or together with iodide of potash, was given in small doses every 2 hours ; it very rarely produced symptoms of iodism, and then very slightly. It did not seem to affect the temperature or the duration of fever. On the whole, the evidence appears rather favorable both to the calomel and to the iodine treatment, and especially to the former, as compared with expectant treatment. The treatment by the cool bath, however, seemed much more efficacious. Of ,339 cases thus treated, only 33 deaths, or 97 percent.; only 52 were slight cases, and excluding this the mortality was even then only 11*5 per cent.' No doubt this is a higher mortality than that which has pre- vailed in some places, but it is greatly less severe than that observed