POISONING. 463 12. That the results obtained by sublimation, in tbe case of the alka- loids and analogous active principles, are not more subject to failure ihan other tests; that several of the reactions are remarkable for deli- cacy, constancy, and characteristic appearances, and greatly surpass in beauty and distinctness those obtained with deposits of equal weight obtained by evaporating solutions. It remains to be seen whether these results will be available to the practical toxicologist; and this will depend in great measure on the behaviour of such deposits from solutions of the alkaloids as are ex- tracted from the viscera. Dr. L. Sedgwick* advances some objections to this method, and urges the value of the iodo-sulphate test for the alkaloids. Picrotoxin.—This bitter principle, the active ingredient of grains of Paradise, so much used in the adulteration of beer, has been investi- gated anew by Dr. Kohler, of Halle ;f aud he has perfected the chemi- cal processes employed for its detection. He recommends ammonia to be added to the beer or other fluid under investigation till it smells strongly of the reagent. If only a qualitative analysis is required, the precipitate which forms is allowed to subside, and the clear supernatant liquid poured off, no filtration being necessary ; but if a quantitative determination is requisite, the liquid is to be filtered, concentrated, and precipitated with a hot solution of acetate of lead in excess. The precipitate is to be collected on a filter, and edulcorated with hot alco- hol, in order to remove all picrotoxin. The filtrate and washings are united, and the excess of lead removed by sulphuretted hydrogen. After filtration the liquid is concentrated to a small bulk, and then shaken repeatedly with ether. The ether is then decanted off and allowed to evaporate spontaneously, when any picrotoxin which may be present will be left behind in the form of slightly coloured, stelliform needles. The rationale of the process is that ether removes picrotoxin from its aqueous solution, whilst the salts of the alkaloids, with the exception of colchicin, are not so removed. Digitalin is removed by ether in the same manner as picrotoxin. If now the ethereal solution be shaken with a dilute solution of potash, colchicin alone is retained by the ether. From digitalin, picrotoxin may be separated b}r tannin, which precipitates the former, but not the latter substance. The crystals of picrotoxin obtained as above may be purified by moistening them with a small quantity of water, rapidly pressing them between folds of bibulous paper, and recrystallizing from hot alcohol. Thallium.—MarmeJ recommends the combined use of the electrolysis and the spectroscope for the detection of this metal in the blood and other animal fluids. The metal is received on a negative electrode of platinum, which is then introduced into the flame of a Bunsen's burner, and the flame examined by the spectroscope. * ' Pr. St. Andrew's Med. Grad. Assoc.,' i. t ' Beri. Klin. Wchnschr.,' 18C7, p. 489. % ' Schmidt's Jalirb.,' 135, p. 286.