POISONING. 443 moved by this kind of addition; and experiments confirmed this sur- mise. Babbits were the animals experimented upon. Iodide of methyl-strychnium produced effects exactly the reverse of those produced by strychnia and its salts. There was not the slightest increase of reflex activity; and in place of violent spasmodic convulsions aud muscular rigidity, the appearances were those of paralysis, with a perfectly flaccid condition of all the muscles. Death occurred from stoppage of the respiratory movements, and after death the heart was found acting with nearly its normal rapidity. The spinal motor nerves were paralysed, and, in place of the early or almost immediate occur- rence of rigor mortis which follows the action of strychnia, the muscles continued flaccid, contractile, and alkaline, for several hours. The poi- sonous effect of strychnia, besides this alteration in kind, was found to be diminished at least 210 times; as much as thirty grains of the above salt Lave been introduced into the stomach of a rabbit without producing anv effect, though twenty grains subcutaneously injected proved fatal. Sulphate of methyl-strychnium, a more soluble salt than the iodide, is a much more active poison, though its effects are of a similar nature. These observers demonstrate that the above salts produce paralysis and death by destroying the functions of the motor nerve end-organs, and that their mode of action is, therefore, identical with curare, a substance which has been regarded as a counter-agent to strychnia, so opposite are the effects of the two poisons. It is well known that brucia produces effects the same in kind as strychnia, but that the former alkaloid possesses only half the activity of the latter. The salts of methyl-brucium acted in a precisely similar manner to those of methyl-strychnium, and there was exactly the same diminution of activity, so that large doses had to be given in order to produce a fatal result. Thebaia has been demonstrated by Claude Bernard to possess an action in all respects the same in character as strychnia and brucia, though a lower rank as a toxic and convulsant agent must be assigned it than to either of those alkaloids. The salts of methyl-thebaium act precisely as those of methyl-strychnium, methyl-brucium, and curare. Whilst thebaia is the first of the opium alkaloids in toxic activity, codeia is the second, possessing distinct convulsant and but feeble soporific properties. The salts of methyl-codeium do not possess the slightest convulsant action, but cause paralysis of the motor nerve end- organs. It is difficult to determine whether the feeble soporific action of codeia is affected by chemical addition, but Drs. Brown and Fraser are inclined to believe that it is not. Morphia was the only other opium alkaloid in which the effects of chemical addition were examined. Bernard has shown that this sub- stance is next in activity as a soporific to narceia, that it possesses a len convulsant action than codeia, and that its fatal dose is the largest of any of the active principles of opium. Sulphate of methyl-morphium caused paralysis in a rabbit without any trace of the convulsive action produced by morphia in that animal. The phenomena observed after the administration of the same salt to a frog proved that the peripheral terminations of the motor nerves were paralysed. It was ascertained