DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 183 October, 1862. Ho complained of lassitude, loss of appetite, vomiting, and constipation. He had much pain in the region of the liver, and had febrile attacks. He became jaundiced, and his liver was enlarged. After vomiting a quantity of dark blood he began to improve, but hjs condition varied until the end of January, J864, when he was much as in 1862. The liver was very large, and there was fluid in the perito- neum. His urine was dark, his stools pale; he began to improve, but had a relapse in March, when he became worse than ever. His legs swelled, his lungs were affected, and he died of apneea. In the cavity of the peritoneum was found a quantity of yellow fluid. The liver'was fixed to the diaphragm and the colon, and in it were observed a number of small abscesses, filled with pus coloured with bile. These communicated with each other and with the bile-ducts. Each was lined by a special membrane. The gall-bladder was much contracted, and its cystic duct contained and held fast a facetted gall-stone. At the point where this joined the hepatic duct was another and much larger stone, which completely blocked up the channel, and had given rise to the mischief. Dr. Christy "Wilson records ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Eeb. 1868) a case of acute atrophy of the liver. The patient was a maid-servant, set. 25, who, it seems, was in the habit of drinking spirits. She had been vomiting, and her urine was high coloured, her skin yellow, and her stools light coloured, when she was admitted into the Edinburgh In- firmary. When admitted her abdomen was flat, her skin bright yellow, and her urine green. She speedily became insensible and unable to eject the matters rejected by the stomach; her stools were light coloured, and she passed a good deal of blood both by the rectum and vagina. She entered the hospital on the 6th of December, and died on the 10th. After death there were found purpuric spots beneath the pericardium. The liver was diminished, and yellow in colour. The gall-bladder con- tained a little reddish-grey mucus. Other of the abdominal organs were fatty. The intestines were normal. The temperature in this case rose to 105° E., a rare occurrence, if, indeed, it has been before observed, in cases of acute atrophy of the liver. Dr. Eoberts. of Manchester, records a case of fungus hsDtnatodes of the liver ('Lancet,' Jan. 19, 1867) occurring in a girl, set. 12. The swelling had been noticed four months before. There was bulging on the right side, extending upwards into the chest, and pressing on the subclavian artery, so as to diminish the pulse on the right side. Between the right costal margin and the umbilicus was most bulging, and there was fluctuation. The heart was thrust to the left, and the apex of the right lung was the only portion of it which acted. An ex- ploratory puncture was made on the fluctuating spot, from which it was concluded that the disease was not hydatid, but malignant, with contained cysts. The girl gradually sank. There was no jaundice whatever, and little cedema. All the organs were healthy except the liver, the right lobe of which was converted into an enormous mass, on the summit of which remained the leathery and unaltered lung; the diaphragm, indeed, reached the clavicle. The morbid growth was encapsuled in a layer of liver tissue. The mass itself consisted of en-