408 UliPOKT ON MlUWIFKHYj ETC. Ilccmorrliage. Placenta prcevia is illustrated by cases by G. Roper ('Obst. Trans.,' viii) ; he attests the views of Barnes that haemorrhage may cease during dilatation of the os uteri. By W. Holt (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868), who used successfully Barnes' ddator. By J. F. W. Staude ('Ztsch. f. M. Ch. u. Geb.,' 186S) who proposes a special contrivance, consisting of two pewter tubes united parallel and a caoutchouc bladder attached to carry cold water, and thus to combine the use of cold and the plug. Dr. Kuhn ('Wien. Med. Puss.,' 1867) gives the results of his expe- rience of 46 cases. By Dr. Fowler ('Lancet,' 1868), who relates a striking case in confirmation of Barnes' doctrine, that haemorrhage may cease during the dilatation of the cervix. " On Haemorrhage from Placenta Praevia, and its influence on the Death of the Foetus is the title of a memoir by Lehmann ('Nederl. Pijdschr.,' 1868). Cases of transfusion, with some remarks on a new method of per- forming the operation, by J. B. Hicks ('Guy's Reports,' 1868. Dr. Hicks advocates preventing the coagulation of the blood by the admixture of a solution of phosphate of soda; 3 gr. of the fresh phos- phate should be dissolved in a pint of water. This should be added in the proportion of one fourth to the blood. The instrument employed was the gravitation one of Dr. Hamilton. He relates 6 cases; two •were treated on the old plan, four on the new plan. All died ; but enough is advanced to arrest attention to the method. The use of the neutral chloride of iron as a styptic is discussed by G. Braun (' Wien. Med. "Wochnscbr.,' 1867). Injuries.—Rupture of the Uterus and Vagina. Dr. C. Hecker relates two cases of laceration of the uterus during labour in illustration of a proposition submitted by him, that, " When during a labour, which, perhaps, has already exhibited a suspicious character, a quickly increasing, smooth, elastic swelling forms in the anterior wall of the vagina, and which cannot be regarded as due to prolapsus or cystocele, the existence of an incomplete rupture of the uterus is highly probable." This is due to the collection of blood in the cellular tissues uniting the bladder to the cervix uteri; an extra- peritoneal ante-uterine hsematocele. Case 1.—A woman was in labour with her ninth child ; the midwife felt no presenting part, but she perceived a peculiar swelling in the anterior vaginal wall; in the evening a copious haemorrhage took place. The swelling persisted after the bladder was emptied by catheter. On passing hand into vagina the head was felt; the pains were strong and regular, the countenance calm, but the pulse was over 120. Hecker felt a rent in the left side of the lower segment of the uterus. Turning was readily accomplished, but the head, enlarged (hydrocephalic) had to be perforated. After labour the pulse rose to 140. Delirium set in, followed by rapid collapse and death 36 hours after labour. No autopsy. Case 2.—A woman in her eleventh pregnancy had frequent haemor- rhages ; the posterior lip of the os was carcinomatous. In labour the head presented. When the waters had escaped a smooth elastic