UiSOPHAUOTOUY EOR THE REMOVAL OV FOREIGN BODIES. 221 a second case in which he excised an enlarged spleen, in a case of leu- cocythaemia occurring in a woman, aet. 40. In this case, as in the one previously operated on by Mr. Bryant, death took place from haemor- rhage.* Here, however, the bleeding was even more formidable. It pro- ceeded from a mass of adhesions between the enlarged spleen and the diaphragm, and was so copious that it was impossible to control it, and the patient bled to death in fifteen minutes. On examination of the body the lymphatic glands generally were found diseased, as were also the kidneys and liver. Mr. Bryant's conclusions with regard to the propriety of performing this operation are important enough to justify extraction :—" We have thus learnt two things from the cases related. Pirst, that the enlargement of the spleen in leucocythaemia appears to be only part of a general disease affecting the glandular system as a whole; and, secondly, that in splenotoiny for such a disease there is a disposition to haemorrhage with which surgery is incompetent to deal. . Under such circumstances there is no shirking the conclu- sion that the operation is physiologically unsound and surgically unsafe, and for leucocythaemia should not be performed." He then proceeds to refer to a case operated on by Dr. Kceberle, of Strasburg, and related in the 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' Nov. 1, 1867, in which the patient also died of haemorrhage from ruptured adhesions, and he ob- serves that the success of M. Pean's case does not invalidate his con- clusion ; for though it shows that the spleen may be successfully removed in the human subject, the operation was not undertaken for leucocythaemia. The ' Gazette Hebd. deMed. etde Chir.,' Oct. 23, 1867, contains an account of M. Kceberle's case. In this report M. Koeberle refers to six operations of this sort by Pantoni, Zacharelli, Quittenbaum, Kuchler, S. Wells, and Pean (being probably tinaware of Mr. Bryant's first case), in three of which recovery ensued. As bearing on the removal of abdominal tumours, we may refer to the ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, p. 243, where Mr. Spencer Wells relates a case of fatty tumour of the mesentery, weighing 20 lb., which he re- moved during life, with a fatal result; and in the same volume, p. 246, Mr. Cooper Porster relates a case in which there was a fibro-fatty tumour in the abdomen, weighing 55 lb. (the attachments of which were not ascertained"), in which the sensation so exactly simulated that of ascites that paracentesis was performed. (Enopliarjotomy for the removal of foreign bodies.—Dr. D. W. Cheever, of Boston, U.S., has published there an extremely interesting pam- phlet with the above title, containing the account of two cases in which he had himself occasion to perform this operation, together with refer- ences to all the cases which he could find in published works. Dr. Cheever's own two cases may be thus summarised:—The first patient was a young man who had swallowed a bone on Nov. 9, 1866. Seen next day. Great pain complained of, radiating from a part of the throat near the cricoid cartilage; nothing to be felt with the finger. He could swallow fluids. A sponge probang could be passed beyond * See the last' Biennial Retrospect,' p. 221.