REPORT ON SUltGERY. 196 purpose, from which the following is extracted (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 12, 1868) :—"From experiments upon various lower animals, they arrived at the conclusion that it was free from atmospheric air, a power- ful anaesthetic, more rapid in its action, although more evanescent, than chloroform and other anaesthetics ; and that although, if pushed, it produced death, still the animals were often speedily brought round, when apparently dead, by the admission of air. " They next proceeded to arrive, if possible, at the conclusion whether, as an anaesthetic in man, it was as safe as, or safer than, those in general use. To this they give a guarded answer for the present, stating, however, that it is at least as safe, for short operations, as any other anaesthetic. " They next enumerate the conclusions arrived at, founded on 1380 cases watched and carefully reported on by the various members of the committee, and on 1051 reported to them on trustworthy authority, as to the advantages and disadvantages of the gas. The advantages are, shortly, these—the rapidity of its effects in producing anaesthesia, the shortest time being 25 seconds; rapidity in recovery j its agreeable nature; its being tasteless and less irritating; almost entire freedom from nausea and vomiting, occurring in less than 1 per cent.; absence of headache and vertigo, as a general rule, after complete recovery from the anaesthesia. The disadvantages are noted as consisting in its un- suitableness for long operations, on account of the rapidity of recovery; in the difficulty of making and transporting the gas, and also the ex- pense of the agent; in its being troublesome to make, and requiring unusually complicated apparatus in its administration; in the undesira- bility of quick recovery in operations followed by much pain; in the administration being occasionally accompanied by twitchings, which render it unsuitable for delicate operations." In the ' Lancet' (May 11, 1867) and in the same journal (June 1, 8) will be found papers and experiments, by Dr. Protheroe Smith, on the preparation and use of the tetrachloride of carbon as an anaesthetic, with experiments on the lower animals, and notes of cases in which it was used in practice. In the ' Med. Times and Gazette,' Nov. 2, 1867, is a paper, by Dr. Richardson, " On the Properties and Use of the Bichloride of Methy- lene as an Anaesthetic." After describing the mode of its preparation, and some experiments illustrating its action, Dr. Richardson thus describes its administration: " When I had learned by repeated experiments that the bichloride of methylene could be safely administered to inferior animals, I inhaled it myself until it produced insensibility. I found the vapour very plea- sant to breathe, and little irritating, while drowsiness came on and un- consciousness without any noise in the head or oppression. I recovered also as the animals seemed to recover—at once and completely. I felt, in fact, as though I had merely shut my eyes and had opened them again. In the mean time, however, I had performed certain acts of a motor kind unconsciously ; for I had inhaled the vapour in the labora- tory, and there went into sleep, but I awoke in the yard adjoining. This was on September 28 last. I inhaled on the occasion from a cup-