228 ItEPOUT ON SUItGEItY. it. All this precedes by about 24 hours the appearance of the slough- ing. In erysipelas the fever does not present any constant type ; it precedes the appearance of the eruption by only a very short time, con- tinues high during its whole course, and then subsides rapidly. Cancer.—The following papers on cancer appear worthy of notice :— " On the Manner of Inheritance of Cancer," by W. Morrant Baker ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 27, 1867). This paper is in reply to Mr. Moore's pamphlet ' On the Antecedents of Cancer,' of which an abstract was published in our last Retrospect. Mr. Baker observes, in the first place, that it is not necessary to the support of the theory that cancer is a constitutional disease to prove that it is handed down as cancer from parent to child. The constitu- tional tendency may be transmitted without any transmission of the actual disease. " Mr. Paget has put this fact very plainly. ' That which is trans- mitted,' he observes, ' from parent to offspring is not cancer itself, but a tendency to the production of cancer at some time far future from the birth. We have no reason to believe that a cancerous material passes with the germ. To suppose such a thing, where the cancerous parent is the male, would be absurd. Moreover, no reason to believe that cancerous material passes from either parent is furnished by any frequency of congenital cancer.' " (' Lectures on Surgical Pathology,' 2nd edit., p. 774.) Thus, the argument that if inheritance had much to do with cancer, it would be more common in infants and young children, does not seem a very strong one. Cancer appears to be transmitted in the same way as other diseases, i. e. by the inheritance of a tendency, which may not appear till late in life, or may pass over one generation to appear in the next. " So far as the fact can be proved by statistical records, this is certainly the usual way in which it is handed down from generation to generation ; and if argument from analogy be admitted, this is the manner in which, from observation of the inheritance of other diseases, we should expect it to be transmitted." But Mr. Baker points out that the mere fact of cancer being a herit- able disease no more shows that it is a general, and not a local, disease than the same fact which has been often observed in epidermal cysts, crooked fingers or toes, hernia, &c, would show that they are constitu- tional affections. The proportion shown by Mr. Paget's most recent statistics ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1862) gives 24-2 per cent., or about one fourth, as the proportion of cancerous patients who were aware of the occurrence of this disease in other members of their family; and this proportion Mr. Baker is inclined to believe to be below the reality, on account of the number of persons inheriting cancerous tendencies who die from other causes before such tendency has revealed itself, and on account of the number of cases of internal cancer which escape detection. Mr. Baker quotes Mr. Moore's statement of the case, which he says is a very fair one. Mr. Moore remarks (' Antecedents of Cancer,' 1865, p. 20), " If it be usual for dissimilar cancers to prevail in direct inheritance, for the children of cancerous parents to have primary cancer of various