KEPOltT ON MIDWIFKIIY, ETC. 400 rained by the finger, and compared with external measurements with Baudelocque's compas d'6paisseur. The external conjugate almost always corresponded with the internal measurements taken with the finger. In the women belonging to this series labour was completed in some naturally, in some by instruments, in some by induction of labour. The defects of the second degree comprised cases in which the conjugate was reduced to 2*8 in. to 2-3 in. Six such cases were observed. In all labour was either instrumental or provoked. Cases of the third degree included two only, and required Caesarian section. All the 47 cases, excepting three of osteomalacia, were due to rickets. All remembered to have begun to walk at 3, 4, 5, or 6 years old; that when they began to walk alone they were seized with the disease called acute fever, winch rendered them infirm; most had lived in damp, unhealthy places, and had been badly fed. In an inaugural thesis Dr. Aurelio Finizio discusses and expounds what may be considered to be the generally accepted doctrine of the Italian school, as to the management of labour in cases where the pelvis is contracted below )\ centim. (= nearly 3 inches). He says there are two schools. The first, the older, represented by Prof. Felice di Renzis, opposes provoked abortion on account of pelvic deformity and admits the following practical indications :—(1) From 3" to 2"5o", the fetus being alive, symphyseotomy and premature labour; the fetus being dead, cephalotomia and cephalotripsy. (2) From 2"5o", the child alive, Caesarian section ; the child dead, cephalotomia or cephalotripsy. (3) Below 1 "50", the child dead or alive, the Caesarian section. The modern school takes the following indications :—If the woman comes under observation before the seventh month—(1) From 3" to 2*50", artificial premature labour. (2) Below v6o", obstetrical abor- tion. At term of gestation—(1) From 3" to 2^0", forceps, as an instrument of traction and compression. (2) From 2"50" to 2'i6", cephalotripsy. (3) Below 2 , gastro-hysterotomy in extreme cases. Dr. Finizio says the forceps is preferable to turning where the pelvis measures 3". Contrary to the current Italian precept, he applies the blades in the sides of the pelvis. Cephalotripsy can be executed be- tween 2*50" and 2". In discussing the induction of labour, Finizio lays down these rules I — (1) To time the operation in coincidence with the menstrual nisus. (2) Not to cause congestion of the lower segment of the uterus by Kiwisch's irrigation, this having frequently caused death. (3) To dilate the cervix gradually by dilators. He prefers that of Lemenat des Chenais to Barnes's and Tarnier's.—(From analysis in ' Annali Univ. di Medicina,' 1868.) Taking the rule of Litzmann, that a pelvis measuring 3-50 and under is a contracted pelvis, Dr. Spiegelberg found 83 labours with narrow pelves in 597. This very large proportion, 13-9 per cent., is explained by the poverty of the lower classes in and near Breslau, and the custom of too early resort to hard work. The greater number of the narrow pelves were simply contracted in the conjugate diameter, the so-called simply flat and rickety pelvis; but more advanced forms of rickety