LIOATUKE OF LINGUAL ARTERIES. 297 nominate aneurism, we may notice a case by Mr. Knowles, published in the ' Lancet,' i, 1868, p. 750. There was a pulsating tumour extend- ing upwards for an inch above the right sterno-clavieular joint. It was thought to be an aneurism of the carotid, involving also the innominate. A small aneurism was also detected in the left subclavian artery. There was a double aortic murmur. As the larger aneurism was growing rapidly, the right carotid artery was tied. The tumour became firmer, but its pulsation continued, and he suffered much from cough. The operation was performed on Nov. 1. The ligature came away on jN'ov. 16, and he seemed going on well for more than a fortnight. On Dec. 4, however, he wqs attacked with apoplectic symptoms, became hemiplegic on the left side, and died next day. A complete post- mortem examination was not allowed, but it was ascertained that the aneurism was aortic. In the nineteenth vol. of the 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' p. 93, Mr. Maunder relates a case in which he applied a ligature simultaneously to the sub- clavian and carotid arteries for an aneurism at the root of the neck. The patient died on the sixth day, and after death the aneurism was found to be aortic, and the aorta was much obstructed by the coagulum. In the same 'Transactions,' xviii, p. 42, is an account, by Mr. Heath, with a drawing, of the well-known case in which Mr. Fearn, of Derby, tied the subclavian and carotid (not simultaneously) for an aneurism of the innominate artery. The dissection is now in the museum of the College of Surgeons, and confirms Mr. Fearn's original account. Eeference may also be made to the ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, p. 182, for a case of aneurism of the abdominal aorta in which Sir W. Fergusson tied the femoral artery. The pulsation was diminished for a day, but other- wise little effect seems to have been produced on the disease. Ligature of the arteries of the tongue. ' Graz. Med. de Paris,' 1867, p. 634.—At the Academie de Medecine, ^Oct. 8, 1867, M. Demarquay read a memoir on this subject founded on twelve cases collected from his own experience and that of others. It went to establish the follow- ing propositions:—1. That the ligature of the lingual arteries is not difficult. 2. That the indications for this operation are not uncommon. It appears, from M. Demarquay's work, that the lingual has been tied several times to arrest haemorrhage and that the haemorrhage has always been suspended. Eelying on this fact, the author asks why should not the arteries of the tongue be tied as a precaution when a deep-seated tumour has to be removed from this organ, since everybody is aware that there is risk of hemorrhage whatever proceeding be adopted ; but the essential point of the memoir is the advantageous result which this surgeon has obtained from tying the two lingual arteries, in order to produce atrophy of cancerous tumours of the tongue, and to obtain a prolongation of life. He has practised this operation three times on patients in a bad condition, and the result has been satisfactory in every case. The sequela; of the operation were simple, and, setting aside some haryngeal symptoms, marked by a little temporary dysphagia caused y the proximity of the Ungual artery to the pharynx, the wound has