CHOREA.—SPASMUS GLOTTIDIS. 1:31 conjunctival catarrh, with blepharadenitis, which had appeared several times before, and had always called forth this reflex spasm. It was cured by inunction with unguentum cinereum and opium on the temples and forehead. A violent prosopospasms of the left side was also seen in a boy eight years old, in whom a central cloudiness had remained on the left cornea after keratitis. The relations of chorea with rheumatism and heart disease in children are minutely discussed in clinical comparisons by H. Eoger (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1867-8). He says there is an interdependence between the three conditions—"ils semblent s'appeler les uns les autres." He admits a cardiac chorea, but says the heart disease and the chorea may start together from the same cause, as is the case sometimes with rheu- matism and carditis. His cases establish that the heart disease often persists after the cure of the chorea. He further shows that chorea may be a cause of heart disease. Henoch (' Beitrage,' 1868) found heart complication and rheumatism in five cases out of fifteen. He found arsenic the most faithful remedy. Henoch also relates four cases of " chorea electrica," a disease distin- guished from ordinary chorea by the lightning-like character of the muscular tremors. The following is a report of a case condensed:— A boy, vet. 11, had had epileptiform convulsions when nine months old, which did not cease altogether until he was seven years old. Since then the boy showed, every four minutes, short, lightning-like tremors of the arms, head, and trunk. When naked the twitching of the individual muscles of the trunk and legs were plainly seen. The pro- jected tongue showed the peculiar vermicular movement of the chorea, but speech was not affected, and the boy could write when not inter- rupted by a twitching. The affection ceased during sleep. The heart was normal. He improved, but was not cured under two months' use of arsenic. Dr. Henoch ('Beitrage z. Kinderheilk.,' 1868) gives an interesting memoir on spasmus glottidis. It is based on 61 cases. In 46 of these he observed it was complicated with 'convulsions. The seat of irrita- tion, he contends, is the root of the respiratory nerves—that is, in the medulla oblongata. Excitation may arise in a twofold manner — 1. From bad nutrition of the nerve-substance. 1. From reflex irritation. Cold and catarrh of the air-passages are the most frequent sources of reflex irritation. Almost all Henoch's cases ended in recovery. He relates, however, two fatal cases. In one was found enormous conges- tion and softness of the cranial bones. Two points in the occiput were so soft as to be easily transfixed by the knife. There was much cedema of the pia mater, effusion of serum in the ventricles, venous stasis in the pia mater and sinus. Slight bronchial catarrh. No other morbid change. In the other case, which ended with epileptic fits, the cranial bones were very hyperajmic, thickened, and easily cut; there was enor- mous hyperemia of the meninges and brain, and slight oedema of the pia mater. All other organs healthy. Henoch commends in treatment oxide of zinc, asafoetida and musk, but admits that the effect obtained is not great or lasting. Bromide of potassium was sometimes useful.