REPORT ON SURGERY. 278 this specific origin, but that it was the result of simple inflammation of the neurilemma. The relief afforded by the incision was very- great, and, from the accounts I have since received, it has been per- manent." Extirpation of a tumour from the anterior crural nerve, together with a portion of the femoral artery and vein. Restoration of the nervous functions, and uninterrupted nutrition of the limb.—In the ' Deutsche Klinik,' 1867, p. 283, Prof. Otto "Weber relates a case in which a young man, set. 27, had suffered for half a year from the growth of a very painful tumour at the middle of the inner aspect of the thigh. The tumour was of variable consistence, shared slightly in one part in the pulsation of the femoral artery, which, therefore, was thought probably to run through it, and lay underneath the sartorius, which was partly united to it. It was about the size of a goose's egg, slightly movable, not very tender to handling, unless this was rather violent. There was acute darting pain, and a feeling of formication abruptly limited by the crest of the tibia. The sensibility of the limb was somewhat diminished, its motor functions undisturbed, except that there were occasional startings of the vastus internus muscle. It was diagnosed as a neuromatous (or sarcomatous) tumour of the crural nerve, involving chiefly the saphenus and the nerve to the vastus internus. As it was growing rapidly, it was at once removed. The sartorius, which was infiltrated, was removed in a portion only of its breadth, leaving its continuity interrupted. The crural nerve was so lost upon the sub- stance of the tumour that the attempt to dissect it out failed. The vessels were exposed and dissected as they reached the tumour. An attempt was made to free the artery from the growth, but its coats were found to be infiltrated, and on attempting to dissect it clean the blood began to permeate the thinned wall of the vessel. It was accord- ingly tied, but not divided. The vein was found to be penetrated by the tumour, and was also tied close above the mass. Then the vessels were dissected clean below the tumour. This was close to the open- ing in the adductor magnus. The collateral circulation was found to be so far restored that the artery pulsated strongly. One ligature was placed around both vessels, but before it was tied an opening was made into the artery, and the stream of blood was about as powerful as if there had been no ligature on the upper part of the vessel. Then the ligature was tightened. The tumour was now removed with a portion of the adductor magnus. It is described as a " gliosarcoma," but its precise structure is not essential to our present purpose. The nerve was perceptible above and below it, but was lost in the substance of the tumour. The artery was imbedded in the mass, but its tube was free. The vein, on the contrary, was occupied for about two inches by the growth, though a narrow channel for the blood was still left. After the operation the leg was colder than the sound leg, and the veins distended, but this difference disappeared in about six days. There was moderate traumatic fever, which, however, ceased in a week, and the patient recovered without any drawback. Immediately after the operation the inner side of the lower third of the thigh and of the