15 § ' Brown-Sequard's Archives de Physiologic,' 18C8, i, p. 479. RESPIRATION. mum to be from 1.30 a.m. to 7.30 a.m. It then slowly rose, with some fluctuation, till 4 p.m., from which time till 9 p.m. it remained at its maximum. The mean diurnal temperature of all the experiments was, as nearly as possible, ioo° F. (99-96°). The difference between the maximum and minimum in the older person was from r8° to 270 F., whilst in the younger and more excitable it amounted to 3-6° F. As re- gards the influence of variations in diet, he found that fasting throughout the whole day made no difference to the minimum and maximum periods, but the mean daily temperature fell about £° F. "When, however, the period of fasting was protracted to sixty-two hours the mean tempera- ture was exalted, and there was no period of marked depression. The in- gestion of food caused an increase in temperature, but the ordinary daily fluctuations were distinctly perceptible. No reciprocal relation was ob- served between the amount of urea discharged per diem and the mean temperature of the body. Folet* notes that in most cases of hemiplegia the temperature of the axilla of the paralysed side is about r8° F. above that of the healthy side ; but when atrophy follows the hemiplegia the temperature falls. Frese f and Kettler J show that, whilst the injection of small quantities (5j or 5'j) °f c°ld water or of healthy blood into the veins of an animal produces little alteration in the animal temperature, the injection of the blood of animals suffering from inflammatory affections, as pleurisy, pneu- monia, or enteritis, quickly causes an elevation of 30 or 40 F., which lasts for several days, and brings on an attack of fever. A small quantity of pus produces the same effect. M. J. S. Lombard,§ in experiments made to determine the influence of respiration on animal heat, arrived at the following conclusions :—1. That augmentation of the frequency and extent of the respiratory movements for ten minutes may cause a fall of temperature amounting to 1° F. (rii° C.) over the radial artery. 2. When the respiration is suspended at the end of an ordinary or full inspiration, the temperature over the radial artery can descend from i-iooth to i-ioooth of a degree Cent, in the space of a minute or a minute and a half, the fall commencing some seconds after the commencement of the suspension of the respiration. 3. The temperature of other parts of the forearm besides those superjacent to the radial artery is either not at all or only transiently depressed by sus- pension of the respiration after an ordinary or full inspiration. 4. The cause of the fall of temperature when the number and extent of the re- spirations are augmented is in a change of the circulation. The sphygmo- graph showed in these cases a diminution of the tension and of the force of the pulse, and an augmentation of its frequency. It is not improbable that these changes of the circulation are, up to a certain point, the effect of purely mechanical causes, but they appear, at least in part, to be due to a direct modification of the heart's action by a nervous influence. 5. The cause of the fall of temperature when the breath is held depends also on changes in the circulation. The sphygmograph shows that the * ' Gaz. Hebdomad.,' 1867, Nos. 12, 14. t ' Dissert, on the ^Etiology of Fever,' and ' Virchow's Archiv,' xl, p. 302. X Idem, xli, p. 542.