4 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. ing to the temperature, increasing rapidly up to 6o°. It is insoluble in alcohol, ether, aetherial and fixed oils, in benzole, turpentine, chloroform, creosote, amylic alcohol, and bisulphide of carbon. Though a crystalline body, it constitutes an exception to Graham's law, diffusing through parch- ment paper with the greatest difficulty, or not at all. It is not in the least degree fibrino-plastic. Methaemoglobin is formed from haemoglobin by warming the recent moist crystals of the latter substance, which then become discoloured and assume a brownish-red colour, and are no longer soluble in water; with the methaemoglobin a second substance appears, of an albuminous nature, which leaves no ash on burning, and is termed globin by Preyer. He gives the effects of the action of many different substances on haemoglobin. M. Holm* enumerates the distinctive characters of hajmatoidin, or the colouring matter of inspissated blood, and bilirubin, or the colouring matter of bile, which have been sometimes regarded as identical in their nature. The main points of distinction are that bilirubin is weakly acid, whilst haematoidin is neutral. Bilirubin is insoluble in ether, haematoidin is soluble. Bilirubin, when in solution in chloroform, is withdrawn by alkalies, haematoidin is not. Stiideler has shown that the colouring matter of the yolk of egg is closely allied to haematoidin. As regards the development of the blood-corpuscles, Metschnikowf gives the following account, as he haa followed it in fowls. On the third day of incubation the blood-corpuscles possess an irregular form, are clearly devoid of an investing membrane, but contain in their interior a round and perfectly transparent nucleus, with a few small, highly refractile particles, or nucleoli, in their interior. The corpuscles possess a faint yellow tint, and from the fourth to the sixth day present amoeboid move- ments. They increase by fission. On the fourth day of incubation they begin to assume the natural oval form proper to the bird. On the twelfth day the corpuscles have assumed their natural flattened form, a nucleolus almost completely fills the nucleus, and about two days subse- quently the previously visible boundary line of the nucleus vanishes. He therefore concludes that the so-called nucleus of the corpuscles is not a nucleus at all, but an enlarged and persistent nucleolus, which is again an evidence that the latter may play as important a role in cell formation as the former. Neumann J notes the abundance of white corpuscles in the vessels of marrow, which he believes proceed from the peculiar cells found in that tissue, and penetrate into the interior of the vessels. He has also ol - served, especially in the red marrow of bones, nucleated red corpuscle i, exactly resembling the corpuscles of the blood of the fcetus in the early stages of its development, and he believes that a continuous process of blood-corpuscles takes place in those parts. Considerable attention has been paid to the spectrum analysis of the blood, the results of which it is difficult to communicate without the aid of diagrams. It may, however, be mentioned that in this method of research a spectrum or ray of light, broken up into its primary colours by * ' Molescbott's Untersucb.,' x, 1867, p. 447. f * Virchow's Archiv,' 1868, p. 523. X ' Centralblatt,' 1868, p. 689.