332 REPORT ON SURCERY. an enlarged post-cervical gland of a gentleman who applied to me for strumous abscesses under both jaws. The gland was of the size of a walnut. It disappeared without suppuration. "In February, 1867, I had the following case under my care in the Salisbury Infirmary: " A dark, strumous-looking boy applied with a mass of diseased glands under the base of the lower jaw, on the left side, with an unhealthy ulcer of the size of a crown-piece. I directed a drachm of the compound tincture of iodine to be injected into the midst of the mass by means of Wood's syringe. This was done by the house-surgeon. The boy was brought to me two days afterwards, as the swelling and pain of the dis- eased part was great. A week's poulticing relieved the tension, the glands gradually diminished in size, the ulcer took on healthy action, and in eight weeks it had cicatrized, and now the boy is quite well." General emphysema from rupture of the lung.—In the 1 Medical Press and Circular,' April 29, 1868, is an account, by Dr. Mapother, delivered to the Surgical Society of Ii-eland, of a case of general em- physema from rupture of the lung, in a child 2 years of age, who had " had a fall, her chin coming against a stool. No local injury resulted, but the child, being greatly frightened, seemed to cease breathing for a moment or two, and then screamed violently. When the mother took her up she perceived a swelling above each collar-bone, which gradually spread to the surface of the chest, neck, and eyelids. When admitted into St. Vincent's Hospital, thirty-six hours after, these parts were tensely emphysematous; there was neither fractured rib nor clavicle, nor any other injury, the skin of the chin, where it was said the blow- was received, not being ecchymosed. There was no difficulty of breath- ing or cough. I conceived that a forcible inspiration occurred after the fall, and that the air-cells near the root of the lungs, being thus distended, were burst by the sobbing and crying movements, which are expirations with the glottis closed. The air was then pumped into the posterior mediastinum, and thence towards the skin. In anticipation of pul- monary inflammation, I gave a little grey powder; and to lessen ex- piratory force, and prevent further inflation of the areolar tissue, I put a bandage round the chest. The air gradually passed away, and on the seventh day after the accident the child was in perfect health." In some interesting remarks Dr. Mapother discusses the cause of this injury and other points connected with it as follows: " The following points seem worth discussing: " 1 st. The rupturing force has been the retarded expiration in cases of hooping-cough, foreign bodies in bronchi, a sudden cry or laugh, loud speaking (as occurred in the case of a barrister while pleading), primiparous labour, hysteria, and during the reduction of a dislocated humerus. In all such instances there is a full inspiration, and the ex- piratory movements are most forcible, but the exit of air is not free, llupture of air-cells usually occurs in the difficult expirations of ani- mals in whom the pneumogastric nerves are cut, the laryngeal muscles becoming so flaccid that the arytenoid cartilages fall together, and it is