INFANTICIDE. 4G9 born children and iu foetuses that have undergone btra-uterine macer- ation, no collection of gas is found in tho stomach and intestines. (2) Iu conformity with this, the intestinal canal sinks in water, as a whole and when" divided into pieces. (3) "When respiration is esta- blished gas collects in the intestines from above downwards. (4) The first impulse to this collection of gas is probly due to the act of swal- lowing air. (5) Subsequently to the first act of respiration gas may be found iu the stomach. (6) According as respiration has been more or less complete, and of longer or shorter duration, the coils of in- testine become- more or less distended with gas. Of this we can assure ourselves by percussion of the abdomen of a living child, or examination of the body of a stillborn child. Liman* adduces the autopsies of 84 cases in criticism of Breslau's conclusions, dividing them into five groups. The first of these com- prises those in which the body had not undergone putrefaction, and where proof of respiration having taken place was obtained by the hydrostatic lung-test. In 43 out of 45 such cases the stomach floated iu water, and in one case it sank. The other case presented many anoma- lies, which need not occupy us here. The second group includes those cases in which the body, though unputrefied, yields no proof of respira- tion by the hydrostatic test. In 6 cases of this nature the stomach floated in water twice, and sank four times. The third group embraces those cases where the already putrid corpse stillaflbrds proof of respira- tion having occurred. In all these, 9 in number, either the stomach or the intestines floated in water. In one the stomach floated, whilst the intestines sank ; in another, the intestines floated and the stomach sank. The fourth group consists of the cases iu which the putrid body affords no satisfactory proof of respiration having been set up. Iu 8 out of 12 such cases the stomach and intestines floated, whilst in 4 they Bank. In one, whilst entirely negative results were obtained by the hydrostatic test, the stomach and intestines showed, according to Breslau's dicta, that the child must have survived its birth at least 24 hours. The fifth group comprises those cases in which putrefaction had advanced too far to permit of the application of the hydrostatic lung-test. In all these, 12 in number, the stomach and intestines, even when divided into the smallest pieces, floated in water. It is to be noted that in the first group buoyancy of the upper part of the small intestines was no guide to the length of time the child had lived, although buoyancy of the whole length of the small intestine was met with only when the child had survived its birth several hours. Liman consequently is unable to assent to Breslau's conclusions, but thinks, nevertheless, that the test is of use in confirming the conclu- sions drawn from the hydrostatic lung-test. In bodies that have not undergone putrefaction, where the hydrostatic test yields affirmative results, and where the stomach and the whole or greater part of the small intestines float in water, it may safely be affirmed that the child has lived for some time after its birth. When the hydrostatic test affords doubtful results, or when putrefaction has advanced to such a * ' Horn's Vicrteljahrssclir.,' viii, [>, 1.