141 VASCULAlt DISEASES. regular sequence. The first of these is most common after loss of blood, the second with such affections as hydrocephalus; the third is not, says Dr. Richardson, as most people suppose, most frequently as- sociated with heart disease. Dr. Richardson proceeds to inquire into the causation of the latter, and attributes it solely to non-contraction of the left ventricle during a certain period, in which the right continues to act and blood to be poured into the left great cavity. The latter then suddenly resumes work, but before the regular rhythm is again heard two diastolic sounds, indicative of two distinct periods of closure of the aortic and pulmonary valves (this depending on the ac- cumulation of blood on the left side) succeed, and then everything goes on regularly until a similar paroxysm recurs. Dr. Richardson then proceeds to investigate the causes of the intermittency; he finds that it is not necessarily connected with heart disease nor with dyspepsia, but rather is of a cerebral origin, frequently following any strong emotion, and especially by the carrying to bed the worry of the day. Palpitation, says this author, is not due to spasm of the heart, but rather to a tremulous motion of the diaphragm, for palpitation may frequently occur when the pulse is slow. As remedies, good sound sleep is the best; watchfulness and care, feeling the pulse, and so on, is fatal to the patient's chance of recovery. In extreme forms opium is our sheet- anchor. Prognosis of Heart Diseases. Dr. Broadbent ('Brit. Med. Jdurn.,' Dec. 7, 1867) gives certain cases illustrative of prognosis in heart disease. The elements he lays down are—(1) The organic condition of the heart, as ascertained by physical signs. (2) The degree of impairment of its functional efficiency, as manifested by symptoms. (3) The general state of health and soundness of tissues and organs. (4) The presence or absence of conditions tending to aggravate the valvular or structural lesions in the heart or to precipitate the occurrence of complications. Vascular Diseases. Dr. Cuming relates a case in which the practical good effect of tracheotomy in the dyspnoea of aortic aneurism was strikingly shown. The dyspnoea was probably of double origin, from direct pressure on the trachea, and also from irritation of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, when, from exertion or any other cause, the circulation was accelerated. The patient, who was dying from the interference with breathing, almost immediately received complete relief from dyspnoea, and never had any return of this up to the time of his death (from rupture of the aneurism into the trachea), nineteen days later. The case is remarkable for several other reasons, especially for some quasi-anginal symptoms, which pro- bably depended on the interference of the tumour with the sympathetic and pneumogastric branches to the cardiac plexus (' Dublin Quarterly Journal,' May, 1868). On Tuesday, June 25, 1867, Dr. Cockle read before the Royal Medi- cal and Chirurgical Society a communication on the pathology of