41 1UIEUM.VTISM. lately been subject to anxiety. In both no warning was given by the early symptoms of impending danger; tbe fatal symptoms occurred with great rapidity, and soon terminated in death. Two cases are also related to the Clinical Society by Dr. Murchison; in the first one the delirium was the first serious symptom, and occurred upon the night of the fourteenth day; it passed more and more into stupor, and death occurred less than two days from the commencement of the head symptoms. Early decomposition of body, blood dark and fluid, spleen large and soft, kidneys enlarged and congested, their tubes gorged with granular epithelium. Nothing wrong in brain, except some congestion of veins and sinuses. Slight signs of recent peri- carditis ; muscular tissue of heart pale and fatty. The second case was a married woman, set. 26, ill fed, and having suckled a child for three months. This was her second attack of rheumatism. On the night of the sixth day delirium occurred; for a short time the next day the temperature was 104^; there was no delirium, but there had been no sleep. In the night following, after an hour's sleep, obtained by opium, the delirium returned and passed on to coma; death occurred early the next morning. The dissection exhibited almost exactly the same ap- pearances as in the last case, with the addition of waxy changes in the recti of the belly. A case is also related by Dr. Burdon-Sanderson. This was an unmarried woman, set. 45, of neuralgic temperament. This was her first attack of rheumatism, and the first serious symptoms occurred on the twelfth day of illness, and five days after the first rheumatic symptoms. The breathing then ro3e to 46, with sudden inspirations; there was a tendency to stupor. The lungs were congested at the lower part behind. Next day the pulse was 120, the breathing 56, the rheumatic symptoms were slight. The following day drowsiness continued, and in the afternoon the temperature was found to be 109-4, the suddenness of inspiration was more marked, and expiration was also sudden and stridulous, and the pause prolonged. An observation of the pulse under a spring pressure of 120 grammes showed a pulse curve of moderate size, and with no secondary markings, and much influenced by breathing. The temperature was again taken in an hour and a half and found to be no'2; shortly afterwards the patient expired. For some time before death the eyes were closed, the pupils contracted, the iris had a tremu- lous movement, and was unaffected by light. On dissection there were slight signs of pericarditis, and similar changes in the blood and in the viscera to those noticed in the other cases. Dr. Weber expressed the opinion that in this class of cases the brain functions, after a Bhort stage of excitement, become paralysed, and that the symptoms of intense fever are not the cause but the effect of this paralysis. He compared them with certain cases of other fatal nervous diseases/sueh as tetanus, observed by Wunderlich, in which there wa3 excessive rise of temperature, and pointed out the resemblance to the symptoms of sunstroke. He also referred to the remarkable experi- ment of Tscheschechim, who found that after section of the pons at its junction with the medulla the contractions of the heart, and the respira- tions were accelerated, and the temperature raised. He suggested that