ItErOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. a foetus of the size of three months' development. The remarkable feature was the presence of liquor amnii in the third ovum, since the destruction and mummification of one ovum during the development of the other is commonly preceded by the escape of the liquor amnii ('Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' Oct. 1868). A case of quintuple birth is related by Dr. Galopin (' Journ. de Bruxelles,' 1867). Dr. Playfair describes a case of dystocia caused by the child's arm being bent across its neck behind. * It became necessary to perforate ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1867). The Umbilical Cord. Dr. Birnbaum gives an historical resume (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867) of the plan of replacing the cord by putting the woman in the knee- elbow position. He quotes Deventer, 1701, others since, and Iiitgen, 1848, as recommending it. Birnbaum has often practised it. Dr. Massmann ('Petersb. Med. Ztschr.,' 1868) discusses the subject of prolapsus of the cord in detail. See also Trend (' Obst. Trans.,' x). Operations and Instruments. Kristeller ('Berl. Klin. Wchnschr.,' 1867) discusses the application of external pressure as a means of delivery in substitution for extraction by forceps. The hands are applied one on either side of the fundus and sides of the uterus, and pressing downwards towards the pelvis; whilst compressing the uterus laterally the child is squeezed out. This action is repeated at intervals. In certain cases where labour is arrested from simple inaction of the uterus, and where the relation of the axis of the uterus to that of the pelvis is faulty, this method is cal- culated to be of great value. It is further described in Dr. Barnes' lectures (' Med. T. and Gaz.,' 1867), and by Dr. A. C. Scharf ('Nederl. Tijdschr.,' 1867). Air as a means of delivery.—Dr. Kauflrnann ('Gaz. des H6p.,' 1867) states the following propositions :—Rarefaction of the air between the ovum and the uterus is necessary to the adhesion and growth of the ovum ; entry of air between ovum and uterus is necessary to separation and birth of the embryo. Kauffmann says during labour-pains there is access of air between the uterus and the ovum ; and if, by means of the hand or the blade of a forceps, air is admitted behind the ovum, labour is facilitated. Dr. Inglis proposes a new form of forceps. The principal modi- fication consists in doing away with the ordinary handles, reducing these to the shoulders or stumps. He contended that good blades would hold by themselves; and that if traction be the principal use, the handle ought to lie across the line of traction like the handle of a cork- screw. Dr. Charles Bell and Dr. Keiller vindicate the old form of handle, showing that want of length is simply want of power, and urging the difficulty of keeping the blades in situ if the handles were stumped (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 1867). Dr. Aveling ('Obst. Trans.,' x) proposes to curve the handles back- wards, by which, he says, the grasp and power of traction are in-