REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 2 b the activity of the changes taking place in it. Hence it follows that the surface of the transverse section of a muscle which, owing to the mechanical irritation to which it has heen subjected, and to the action of the oxygen of the air, is undergoing disintegration with the maximum of rapidity, will necessarily be negative to every other part of the muscle, but especially to the natural longitudinal section, which is well protected by its investments of perimysium and sarcolemma; and, in like manner, every part of the natural longitudinal section must, in proportion as it approximates the transverse section, be negative to that more distant from the transverse section. On the theory of Hermann, the phenomena of electrotonus are ex- plained much more simply than on that proposed by Dubois-Reymond, and now very generally received. According to this theory, the polar- izing current accelerates the splitting up or disintegration of the nervous substance beyond the electrodes in the catelectrotonized section, whilst it retards it in the anelectrotonized section. These influences diminish in proportion to the distance from the electrodes. Following up these investigations, and applying them to the nature and essential characters of nervous action, M. Hermann believes it may be proved—(i) That the excitability of any portion of a nerve depends on the rapidity of the disintegrating processes which are taking place in it. (2) That the excitation of any portion of nerve depends upon a sudden acceleration of the disintegrating processes in it. From whence it follows (3) that the conduction of the excitation in a nerve depends upon the propagation of a sudden acceleration of the disintegrating processes along the nerve. The first of the above- named propositions explains the hitherto paradoxical observation that the death of the nerves (and muscles) exalts their excitability, and that this augmentation in the nerves takes place earlier near the cerebrum, and near a transverse section, than lower down near the muscle (Hitter, Valli, Rosenthal's law), for the disintegrating process starts from a transverse section, and slowly progresses through the nerves; and further, the nearer the centrum, as a general rule, the more excitable is the nerve in the case of motor nerves. As regards sensory nerves a slight difference exists ; in them all electrical currents, in whatever manner directed, act as irritants. And Hermann considers that sensory nerves are always excited if the rapidity of the disintegrating processes are different from their usual condition, whether increased or diminished; the customary condition may be called static, the increased activity a hyperstatie, and the dimi- nished a hypostatic condition. Shortly expressed, the functions of a nerve may be said to be that it contains an unstable substance, whose disintegration can be transiently suddenly exalted through modifying influences acting rapidly on its substauce (nerve stimuli). A persistent acceleration is effected by the operation of catelectrotonus and by a trans- verse section, both influences being strongest in the proximity of the point of origin of the nerve. A persistent diminution or retardation is effected by anelectrotonus, and most strongly at the anode. Sudden accelera- tion propagates itself with great rapidity through the whole length of the nerve. This is occasioned by the operation of a product of disinte-