58 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. day, and the patient rapidly recovered. Dr. Nash finds, from some official records reserved at Nercara, that 37 cases of ague had lately heen successfully treated with strychnine, with a total expenditure of 1 drachm of the drug. The average period of recovery was the eighth day. In the 37 preceding cases treated with quinine, of which jounces were used, recovery did not result till the twelfth day, and subcutaneous injection of quinine has received much testimony to its success in ague during the last year or two. Dr. Sequin (' New York Med. Kec.,' 41, 1867) gives a special testimony in its favour. The solution he uses is made as follows:— Sulphate of quinine 60 grains, dilute sulphuric acid 40 minims, distilled water 1 ounce ; carefully filter the solution ; 35 minims contain 4 grains of quinine. The solution may be varied by adding 4 or 6 grains of sul- phate of morphia, which renders the injection less painful. It was found that this amount of acid did not render the fluid irritating, the real cause of irritation was leaving undissolved crystals of quinine in the fluid. A higher degree of acidity was also mischievously irritating. Four grains of quinine were needed to break an attack of tertian ague, and fully eight for a quotidian. The general estimate was that 1 grain by injection was equal to 4 grains by the mouth. The best plan is to give a 4-grain injection two hours before the expected attack. If necessary, and if there was time to spare, 4 grains were given four hours, and 4 grains two hours, before the expected chill. If the time was too short, both injections were given at once. The remedy appears to have been remarkably successful in the intermittent forms of fever, but, as regards the remittent form, the experience was small and not satisfactory. In about 10 congestive cases the results were satisfactory, though, as usual, the mortality was very great. In nearly all the cases, besides the injections, quinine and whiskey were given by the mouth. Dr. Schramm describes the complications which are observed to attend intermittent fever during an eight years' residence at Bodenwohr: 1. As regards the mucous membrane, he noted 10 cases of inflam- mation of the conjunctiva of the lids and eye without any neuralgia. The inflammation occurred paroxysmally or vanishing witu the attack of ague, and was attended with lachrymation, dread of light, and severe pain [we do not understand why this should not be called neuralgia] ; in one case it was preceded by intermittent lever, and in another by neu- ralgia mentalis. The type was eight times quotidian and twice tertian. Intermittent catarrh of the intestines easily cured by quinine, occurred in eight children and three adults ; severe inflammation of the larger bowels, with great pain and bloody stools, was more common in adults than children; quinine seldom cured it alone, opium was often used, and sometimes calomel and jalap. Inflammation of the urethra, with swelling and purulent secretion, occurred soon after the aguish attack in one boy of five years. It disappeared under the use of quinine. Affections of serous membranes were rarer; only 1 case showed a distinctly intermittent type. The concurrent skin-affections observed were—pruritus once, erythema once, urticaria once, erysipelas twice, shingles once. These skin diseases had no relation to the paroxysms. Angina tonsillaris occurred once. Haemorrhages from the womb were generally atypic, and quinine often did no good. Typical nose-bleed-