137 VALVULAR DISEASES. pericardium, and the lungs were edematous and contained apoplectic clots. The heart was large, its cavity dilated, the aorta was slightly dilated, the valves thick, leathery, and'shrunken; two originated at the ordinary level, another nearly a quarter of an inch lower down._ This stripping down of the attachment of the valve allowed marked incom- petency. The mitral valves were quite healthy. Dr. Hayden gives (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 16, 1867) five cases of non-organic mitral regurgitant murmurs resulting from anaemia, purpura, masturbation, and excess in tobacco smoking. He arrives at the following conclusions:—(1) Eegurgitation may take place at the mitral orifice, independently of disease of the valves or of dilatation of the orifice or of the ventricle. (2) The murmur which announces this form of re- gurgitation is faint and abbreviated, usually confined to the area of the apex, and not associated with embarrassment of respiration, vascular turgescence, or the other usual signs of organic mitral regurgitation. (3) The pulse associated with this murmur is quick, abrupt, and feeble, and either rhythmically irregular or of the alternately ascending and descending kind. Dr. Cuming (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' May, 1868) reports an interesting case of mitral regurgitant murmur where there was no diseased condition of valves. The case occurred in the person of a woman, aet. 33, married, and the mother of three children. During her last pregnancy she had been greatly frightened, but she did not miscarry. Nevertheless, from that time she suffered from palpitation, and soon after her confinement her limbs began to swell. When admitted to hospital she was anasarcous and anaemic, but there was no albumen in the urine. There was a loud systolic murmur heard at the apex and at the inferior angle of the sca- pula ; there was no diastolic murmur nor anything to be heard in the line of the vessels. The jugulars were enlarged, but did not pulsate. The dropsy had frequently to be relieved by puncturing, and she ultimately died in the hospital. "When the heart was examined nothing abnormal whatever could be discovered; the mitral valves were quite healthy, except a very slight thickening near the free edges of the anterior divi- sion. This, it was universally agreed by the medical men who examined the specimen, was not enough to cause the well-marked sounds they had heard. The opening was normal in size, the cavities were not enlarged or altered in shape, the muscular structure was unaltered, and the columnar carneae were well developed, firm, and in every way normal. The bruit could not therefore be accounted for on the supposition that the cavity was dilated, the muscular papillae atrophied, and that so regurgitation had been permitted. Dr. Cuming therefore inclined to refer it to a nervous origin, connecting it with her fright. A point of greater importance is the occurrence here of both pulmonary and general cedema, in which respect the case goes against the doctrine laid down by Hayden; the absence of pulmonary engorgement is a special point in the diagnosis of non-organic mitral murmurs. Dr. Cuming also records another case of temporary mitral regurgitant murmur occurring in a gentleman who was labouring under exhaustion. Gangrene of the heart, 3fc.—Prof. Young, of Cincinnati, gives, in the