REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 438 conditions as indicating the use of this remedy ;—r. Croupous deposits in the mouth and fauces, such as frequently complicate chronic intes- tinal catarrh. 2. A peculiar redness and smoothness of the tongue. 3. Irrepressible thirst. Dr. Henoch ('Beitriige,' &c, 1868) discusses the same forms of diarrhoea under the titles of dyspepsia and stomacal-intestinal catarrh. Setting aside the vomitus neonatorum, as scarcely a condition of disease, he says the vomiting associated with further disorders of digestion and nutrition, such as sour smell of the mouth and of the vomit, with anomalous stools, flatulence, and emaciation, in these cases there is a true dyspepsia, and sometimes change of food will be beneficial. But when this is useless the cause is to be sought in an anomaly of the gastric juice, or in a catarrhal affection of the mucous membrane of the stomach. Often the two conditions are combined, the first causing the second. Henoch has seen the best results from small doses of calomel, which may either act as an antifermentative or antiphlogistic. In some cases, where calomel fails, small doses of hydrochloric acid or of kreasote are very effectual. In others powdered calumba in one-grain doses was successful, the vomiting soon yielding. The chief symptom of the intestinal form is diarrhoea, and the so- called diarrhoea ablactatorum presents the most striking example. The bad quality of the milk and other foods given leads to fermentation in the stomach and intestinal canal, attended by colics, flatulence, and especially sour-smelling green evacuations, containing small pieces of undigested coagulated casein. Vomiting may or may not attend. If the dyspeptic stools are neglected, the irritation causes, sooner or later, a catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane, marked by a copious admixture of mucus in the stools, and at last by streaks of blood. With the onset of catarrh, which mostly affects the colon, the aspect of the disease changes, the stools become more frequent and thinner, are squirted out of the anus forcibly, tenesmus and eversion of the intestinal mucous membrane following. Thirst, emaciation, sinking of the features, ensue. Here, again, Henoch advises calomel or hydro- chloric acid, occasionally adding a drop of laudanum to the acid to allay the peristaltic irritability. In some cases, running a very rapid course, and resisting the above remedies, Henoch saw speedy improve- ment from the use of enemata of a solution of potash. The younger the child, and the more violent the course of the intestinal catarrh, the more quickly do cerebral symptoms arise. In a prognostic point of view, Henoch thinks the period of onset of the cerebral symptoms of great importance. The occurrence even of epileptic convulsions at the beginning of the intestinal affection is less to be feared than the first appearance of cerebral symptoms towards the end of the disease. In the latter case a fatal issue easily follows, whilst in the first the cerebral symptoms are commonly the result of simple reflex irritation. He relates a case in which the onset of the intestinal mischief was marked by epileptic convulsions, which stopped, and were not repeated, but brain-symptoms of another form—apathy, sopor, half-shut eyes— appeared later as the expression of continuous fever, sleeplessness, and inanition. The increasing weakness of the heart in these cases is due