Hi ' Union Medicale,' 1868. ** ' Annales d'Oculistiqne,' 1868. THE OHBOMATIO FACULTY. 3G5 glaucoma entirely to an impediment to the exit of venous blood from the eye, and thinks this impediment may be due either to thinning with impaired elasticity of the sclerotic, or to a species of hypertrophy of its tissue. He regards the former as the ordinary condition, and as a sequel to insidious inflammatory changes in the choroid. The equatorial region of the sclerotic, around the points of exit of the veins leading from the vortices, would be the part chiefly concerned. The doctrine of Magni, that glaucoma is a result of absolute concentric con- traction of the sclerotic, due to diminution in the quantity of the vitreous, still finds advocates in Italy. Becker and Eydel* call atten- tion to the fact that, at Vienna, among persons with simple glaucoma, males considerably preponderate, while females preponderate among persons with inflammatory glaucoma. They ask for observations upon this point in other localities. Dr. Jacobif records a case of pigmentation of the retina, probably congenital, in the left eye of a man twenty-five years old. The patient had congenital cataract of the right eye, but perfect vision and complete accommodation with the left. KnappJ describes a case of pathological pigmentation of the optic disc. Fano§ relates an instance of a boy, twelve years old, brought to him on account of ciliary blepharitis, and who, when cured of this disorder, complained that the sight of his right eye was imperfect. It was found that with it he could only read JNTo. 17. Ophthalmoscopic examination showed a filament in the vitreous cham- ber, executing movements of two kinds, and seemingly attached to the optic disc. Fano concluded it to be a filaria, but does not adduce any evidence of the fact except the apparent spontaneity of its movements. May it not have been the remains of the hyaloid artery, and its move- ments due to the parts around it ? The subject of exophthalmic goitre, or, as he calls it, exophthalmic struma, has been fully treated by Virchow,|| and MM. Fournier and Ollivier^" describe the case of a woman suffering from the disease, and whose life was rapidly destroyed by gangrene. Her original symptoms are described as having been very severe, and, when she had been a few days in hospital, she was suddenly attacked by gangrene of the left leg, thigh, and arm. She speedily died, and a most careful autopsy failed to throw any light upon the causes of her malady. In particular, the sympathetic was subjected to a rigorous examination, both with the eye and with the microscope, and it appeared to be in all respects perfectly healthy. Dr. Xavier Galezowski** has called attention to the phenomena of normal and abnormal colour sensations. He first discusses the various hypotheses of authors with regard to the seat and the nature of colour sensation, and then advances his own. According to this, and upon experimental evidence that the power of distinguishing colours dimi- nishes progressively towards the periphery of the retina, he places the function entirely in the cones, as distinguished from the rods, of the * 'Bericht iiber die Augenklinik der Wiener Universitat,' 1867. t ' Arch. f. Oplith.,' xiv, 1. % Ibid. § ' Union Medicale,' 1868. || ' Die Krankhaften Gcschwiilste,' iii.