HEMIPLEGIA. ■L-Z7 through the retina, close around the papilla, a rosy areola beset with red puncta. After removing tho retina it was easily seen that the vessels of the choroid were tilled with blood. The inner layer of this membrane had quite vanished, a few cells only were seen, and these had degenerated into fat. The pigment-cells of the lamina were quite gone, or were atrophic. The sandy appearance seen before death by the ophthalmoscope was only an optical illusion, and plainly due to the want of pigment in the choroid. How does the thrombosis arise ? The blood must be in a condition easy to coagulate. Thus a protracted is of the blood, and perhaps a bulging condition of certain veins, as of the sinus, favours coagulation. The only result of his latest clinical observations, Bouchut says, is that in cases where, after long chronic diseases, children die in convulsions, we must look for thrombi in the great veins of the brain. Hemiplegia.—Henoch says that, of all the numerous cases of hemi- plegia which he has seen in children, in those that came to post-mortem examination tuberculosis of the brain was found to be the cause, again establishing the enormous preponderance of this disease over all other forms of alteration of brain-structure in childhood. He considers the diagnosis of brain-tubercle to be established in most of those cases which remain obstinate after fair treatment. His own experience coincides with that of other authors as to the extreme rareness of haemorrhage of the brain in young children, that is, of the so-called idiopathic or primary haemorrhage, which for the most part depends upon disease of the small blood-vessels of the brain; for secondary haemorrhages, capillary or even in foci, resulting from tubercle in the brain, purpura hemorrhagica, or thrombosis, are more frequent. He relates three cases occurring in children aged one and a half, seven, and seven and a half years. All three were seized suddenly in the midst of undisturbed health with hemiplegia, which in two passed into pricking sensations and numbness of the affected hand and epileptic convulsions. The convulsive phenomena bore exclusively on that half of the face and body which on their cessation remained paralysed. In the child aged seven and a half years all convulsive symptom was wanting. In every case of epileptiform convulsions which exclusively affect one half of the body one is justified in assuming a material cause in the opposite hemisphere of the brain. Henoch gives several instances of latent tubercular mischief in the brain. One was that of a boy four years old, who had been in hospital four months with phthisis pulmonaks without showing a symptom of brain affection, and who ultimately sank within a few days of tubercular meningitis. Besides the usual appearances, there was found a tubercle the size of a pigeon's egg, sinking from the pia mater into the substance of the brain in the left anterior lobe ; another mass, as large, was found, easily shelled out, on the outer surface of the right corpus striatum; and lastly a mass, soft, adhering lightly between the tento- rium cerebelli and the middle portion of the cerebellum. The bronchial glands were cheesy; the right lung tuberculous in the highest degree, and the seat of numerous cavities. Discussing this and a case equally remarkable, Henoch observes that extensive degenerations, not only of