399 DEFORMITIES OF PELVIS. is an irregular, generally contracted, funnel; the outlet is transversely contracted. In labour the forceps was generally required. On the knowledge of osteomalacia, especially of old age, and on the presence of lactic acid in osteomalacic bones. By Dr. O. Weber.—The essence of the puerperal form of osteomalacia, as also of the senile form, is, according to Weber, the resorption of the salts of lime, beginning in the walls of the Haversian canals and of the medullary spaces. He has also observed a distinct growth of the cartilage which remains after the resorption of the lime salts, which growth takes place at the cost of the vanishing bone, so that the shape is preserved. This happens under inflammatory symptoms and rheumatic pains.' The medulla was found often red, penetrated by small ecchymoses, the vessels of the Haversian canals more developed, and the growing cartilage insula? surrounded by blood-vessels. Osteomalacia must be regarded as a kind of ostitis ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1867). In the report of the Milan Lying-in Hospital for 1867, under the direction of Prof. Lazzati, is an interesting case of osteomalacia. This disease appears to be remarkably rife in the neighbourhood of Milan, and is attributed to extreme indigence and bad sanitary conditions. A woman, set. 34, had three natural labours, but had begun to suft'er some pains in the pelvic bones in her first pregnancy. These had seriously increased in her fourth pregnancy, and the pelvis was then deformed. Labour set in prematurely, and was aided by turning. The osteomalacia was suspended after delivery. Again pregnant three years later, the disease returned, and again labour came on fortunately at seven months aud ended easily. When pregnant for the seventh time the pelvic pains and the distortion returned in an aggravated form, the whole skeleton being involved so that the circulatory and respiratory organs were seriously impeded. There was intense dyspnoea, cough, difficulty of speech, the slightest movements caused excruciating pains, the face became cyanotic and livid, threatening suffocation. Although she was hardly six months gone, Prof. Lazzati, moved more by the urgent general condition than the pelvic deformity, punctured the membranes. Uterine action set in immediately, and the thoracic distress seemed aggravated by the efforts of labour. A live child was born in 38 hours. The patient died 27 hours after delivery. The thorax was much compressed; the sternum, projecting forwards, assumed the shape of a keel; there was passive congestion and cedema of the lungs, concentric hypertrophy of the heart. The spinal column was distorted. The pelvis was triangular at the brim and extremely contracted. As proof of the brittleness of the bones, there was a fracture of the right femur caused by moving the patient in bed. Dr. Casati points to the purely obstetric aspect from which osteo- malacia is commonly regarded, and dwells upon the effects of this di.*ea.«e upon other parts of the skeleton besides the pelvis ('Annali L'niverfali di Med. Milano,' 1867). Dr. Casati describes the practice of the Milan hospitals. During 1866, out of 478 women, 47 exhibited pelvic deformities. These are divided into three degrees. In the first degree the conjugate diameter of the brim measured from 3-3 in. to rg in. This was always deter-