REPORT ON SURGERY. 20 s soon after birth and at the ages of u, 16, and 18, together with an accurate representation of the bones at the age of 11. For the exact measurements we must refer to the original. His general conclusions are as follows:—That both epiphyses grow at about the rate of between two thirds and one mm. per annum. It is safest to assume the growth at only two thirds of a mm. for each year. (A millimetre may, in a roufrh calculation of this sort, be taken to be equal to i-^oth of an inch. It is really a very little more.) In the new-born infant it is situated in the femur, at an average height of nine mm. from the highest point of the intercondyloid fossa, fifteen mm. from the middle of the edge of the internal, and twelve mm. from that of the external condyle. In the tibia it is, on an average, eight mm. from the articular surface. Dr. Konig dwells on the importance of not removing the whole of the epiphysial line, if it can possibly be avoided. In cases where dis- ease has spread higher he recommends either removing portions of the circumference of the bone with the saw, or chiselling out the diseased spot if it be in the interior of the bone. He remarks, however, that if it be necessary to take away so large a part of the bones as to overstep the limits of the epiphysis, although this will leave the patieut with a shortened limb, such a result is inevitable, inasmuch as disease of the epiphysial line is in itself liable to be followed by loss of growth. In support of this statement he refers to the constant occurrence of short- ening after spontaneous cure of old disease of the knee; and although he allows that some of this shortening is due to dislocation, and some of the loss of growth is to be ascribed to disuse, still he is inclined to attribute a great share of it to affection of the epiphysial cartilage. He supports this statement by measurements taken from a few cases of old dislocation of the knee from disease. Thus, according to him, shorten- ing is invitable in such cases ; while excision, if successful, will leave the limb much stronger and more useful. "With regard to the mortality after the operation, he has collected, out of the published cases, all those in which the age did not exceed sixteen—112 in all, of which 20 died from the direct effect of the opera- tion and 2 after consecutive amputation; 11 others were amputated, and in 9 others the operation seems to have failed. All the others he counts as successful. The mortality contrasts favorably with what is known of the results of the same operation at a later period of life, but no materials exist for comparison with the mortality after amputation for similar disease at the same age. Dr. Kbnig is not in favour of Langenbeck's attempt to produce a movable new joint. He says, " However convinced 1 am of the excel- lence of the endeavour to preserve for the patient a real knee-joint, yet I hold excision of the knee to be an operation which is not yet so well established as to be able to bear a large proportion of failures. A universal attempt to procure a movable joint would probably lead to this result—it would probably, besides a few movable and useful joints, produce a larger number of useless, flail-like joints, and all the more since the operation would have to be performed and the after treatment directed by less experienced hands than those of the distinguished surgeon of Berlin."