496 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. large cities :—" Many people think that we ought, like some of the ancients, to burn our dead. They do not consider what a terrible pro- posal they are making. To burn a body without producing the smell of burning flesh is a most difficult thing, and far surpasses the problem of burning our smoke, which, however important, is still left undone. The expense of keeping up such a lake of fire as to consume all our dead would also be, in all probability, too great. Let us imagine 1500 bodies roasted to ashes in London every week. "We shall not enter into the details of a large manufactory of phosphates, as we must call it, because it is painful to dwell on the horrors of the picture, and conjure up the details." He also says, relative to the vexed question, Will a sewer produce cholera, or plague, or cattle disease ? " We cannot say so, or that every kind of disease may be produced from such accumula- tions of organic matter. The great epidemics that have passed over Europe seem always to have come from some extraneous source, to act as if planted by seed, and not to have risen up spontaneously here. Without attempting to examine this matter carefully, the result here would seem to be that, while the decomposition of organized beings after death produces gases and vapours that are opposed to health, these gases or vapours are incapable of originating, although they may be capable of feeding, some of these diseases—such as cholera or plague— which have been observed at all times to come from a warmer climate. There must, however, be some first origin of these diseases; and we cannot prove that the first origin might not take place in our climate, although it seems probable that it requires a warmer sun and a richer vegetation than is to be found in the north. This, however, is suffi- ciently made out—that, when these diseases do come amongst us, they take root with most effect in those places where decomposing matter is found. If we were to suppose a seed of a disease planted in a rich fertile soil of decomposing matter, we should give a pretty fair descrip- tion of the fostering effect of impurity on disease. It would, in fact, appear as if the putrid matter itself took the disease and transferred it to the living. There seems to be nothing entirely opposed to this view of the case. The question, however, is, and has always been, What is the nature of that substance which may be said to form the seed or germ of disease ? Chemists have been inclined to consider it a sub- stance in process of decay. Physiologists and microscopists have been more inclined to consider it as an organized substance.'' After enume- rating the experimental researches upon which this latter view (to which Dr. Smith himself inclines) rests, he says, " If we examine previous inquiries into the compounds resulting from the decomposition of organic substances, we shall find nothing which is at all calculated to bring out such an intelligible rational view of the origin of many diseases, and also of some phases of putrefaction. Chemists, when they have examined products of the latter action, have found sulphuretted hydrogen, carburetted hydrogen, hydrogen, carbonic acid, nitrogen, ammonia, acetic acid, lactic acid, butyric acid, and numerous uncertain bodies having no activity, and utterly incapable of producing those pro- digious results that are found when that force begins to work which produces plague, smallpox, or black death."