REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 2 of not interfering with subsequent staining with carmine and ammonia. Cohnheim and Gerlach,* again, have suggested the use of chloride of gold as a staining agent. The mode adopted by Gerlach for preparing fine sections of the nervous system, as given by Lockhart-Clarke, is as follows : •—The spinal cord, first divided into portions of moderate size, is hardened in a i or 2 per cent, solution of bichromate of ammonia, and is then trans- ferred for 10 or 12 hours to a solution containing 1 part of chloride of gold and potassium to 1000 parts of water slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid, when the white substance will be found stained of a pale lilac, whilst the grey is scarcely coloured. The portions of the cord are then placed in a mixture of 1 part of hydrochloric acid and 2000 to 3000 parts of water for a few minutes, then for a few minutes in a mixture of 1 part of hydro- chloric acid and 1000 parts of 60 per cent, absolute alcohol. After this they are immersed for a few minutes in absolute alcohol, and are finally rendered transparent by creosote, and put up in Canada balsam. Dr. Bastianf immerses the tinted section in pure spirits of wine, then places it on a drop of carbolic acid, then adds a few drops of chloroform for 2 minutes, and finally adds a few drops of solution of Canada balsam in chloroform. Osmic acid (Os04) is stated by KiihneJ to colour fat-particles of an intense brown tint, whilst other textures are only tinged of a yellow colour. Stieda, of Dorpat,§ has strongly recommended creosote and various essential oils for the same purpose, the former fluid having been first proposed by Kutschin. BLOOD. The principal observations made upon the blood during the past two years are as follows:—Bottcher || and Kuhne^[ believe they have been able to demonstrate the presence of a nucleus in the blood of certain mam- mals, as, for instance, of the cat, the camel, and the sloth ; and Kolleston and Moseley** so far confirm these statements that they state they occa- sionall}r observed nucleated cells in the two-toed sloth, and colourless cells with red nuclei in the elephant. C. J. Eberthft again has drawn attention to the fact, noticed also by Klebs and others, of the occurrence of certain transition forms between coloured and colourless corpuscles of the blood as being remarkably conspicuous in cases of leukaemia, where many of the red corpuscles are spherical, large, and nucleated. Such blood often, as noted by Neumann, X + contains minute brilliant crystals, having the form of very attenuated octohedra. Gulliver,§§ in a note on Prof. Eolleston's paper, however, without absolutely denying the possibility of nucleated * ' Medizinisclie Centralblatt,' Nos. 24 and 25, 1867. See also Lockhart Clarke, ' Phil. Trans.,' 1868, p. 323. f Humphry and Turner's 'Journal of Anatomy,' ii, p. 107. j ' Physiologie Chemie,' 1868, p. 308. § Schultze's ' Archiv fur Mikroskop. Anat.,' Heft iv, 1867. || 'Virchow's Archiv,' xxxix, p. 427. if ' Physiolog. Chemie,' 1868, p. 195. ** 'Quart. Journ. of Mic. Sci.,' 1867, p. 127. ft 'Virchow's Archiv,' xliii, p. 8, 1868. jj 'Archiv f. Microscop. Anat.,' ii, Heft iv. §§ Humphry and Turner's ' Jouin. of Anat. and Physiology,' ii, p. 1.