REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 81 tions and the great co-ordinating centres, probably at some point of the line extending from the external frontal convolutions to" the corpus striatum, so that voluntary motor impulses for the articulation of lan- guage cannot be transmitted. The essential morbid change is therefore motor, and not mental. However, there is in most cases an accom- panying degeneration of the powers of the mind, which varies in degree in different persons, but in the majority distinctly involves the general faculty of memory. The condition of the intellect does not differ from that which is associated with non-aphasic hemiplegia, but it would seem that the emotional powers are less frequently disturbed. It follows that there is no necessity for supposing the existence of an organ for language, as a defect in transmission, along with general weakening of the mental faculties, is competent to account for the various phenomena hitherto observed in the sufferers from aphasia. At present there is no sufficient explanation of the almost constant occurrence of the lesion in the left side of the brain. Theories have been advanced which either involve the belief in a departure from the general plan of nature, the duality of our " organs of relation," or suppose, what seems inconsistent with the wisdom of Divine arrange- ment, that organs have been created which never discharge the special functions with which they were endowed. It is suggested that it would be well in the first instance to establish beyond doubt that the absence of aphasia in morbid states of the right hemisphere is not to be accounted for by the escape of parts usually implicated on the left side, owing to some slight anatomical difference, such as is known to exist between other bilateral organs. Failing this hypothesis, let us search anew for some more satisfactory solution of the difficulty than has yet been proposed (' Journal of Mental Science,' January, 1867). Loss of Smell from Local Etherisation. A case is recorded (' Yirchow's Archiv,' iv, 41,1867) in which the con- tinual inspiration of the fumes of ether, accidentally in the course of some experiments on animals, caused a gradual failure of the sense of smell, and at last its total aberration. There appears no doubt that the effect was due to the continuous contact of sulphuric ether with the minute branches of the olfactory nerve. Tubercular Meningitis. Dr. S. J. Gee, in a very remarkable article upon this disease (' Eeynolds's System of Medicine,' vol. ii), makes some observations which ought to be carefully weighed, as the words of a physician who has had a very large experience with regard to his subject. " Tuber- cular meningitis has been known to end in recovery. It is necessary to state this as a matter of science, but in practice it unhappily comes to this, that a person suffering from tubercular meningitis will in- evitably die The prognosis is only too easy; reckon twenty-one days from the invasion symptoms, and, in the majority of cases, that will cover the fatal termination. "What, then, is to be done by way of prevention of the disease ? The prophylactics and ordinary hygienics