REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 46 M. Dolbeau, read before the Society of Surgeons in Paris, caused very "warm discussion. Dolbeau does not consider mercury strictly a remedy for syphilis ; in certain cases it may put an end to the symptoms, but the disease itself still exists. In other cases, if it is not entirely effectual, it gives the patients great relief. But it is not able to prevent the return of symp- toms any more than it prevents the outbreak and progress of syphilis. It is not proper to use mercury before the unmistakable signs of con- stitutional syphilis have appeared. If in this stage syphilis be treated with mercury, or bichromate of potash, or any other drug, in a number of cases it reappears in the tertiary form after a series of years. In that case iodide of potassium is extremely useful; its action does not depend, as some people suppose, on mercury having been previously used. M. Cullerier expressed the opinion that syphilis should not be treated till it shows the clearest secondary symptoms, because otherwise the regular course of the disease is destroyed. In the later periods of syphilis mercury is no longer used. It is also a fact that many people are cured altogether without mercury. The most prudent course is to heal secondary symptoms with mercury, and tertiary symptoms with iodine. M. Perrin, as the result of a very large experience of the comparative use of mercury with indifferent treatment, believes that mercury has no power to prevent the outbreak of the symptoms of syphilis, that it does not effect anything against the diathesis, and that its whole opera- tion is confined to putting an end to secondary symptoms; these may, however, return at any time. Bonnafont speaks in a very different tone. According to this author there are only half as many relapses after the use of mercury as where it has not been employed. Perrin declares that mercury given at the commencement has no power to delay or exclude the later symptoms of syphilis, but it weakens the first secondary symptoms strikingly, and shortens the eruptive period, or even prevents it altogether; it assists the cure of sore throat and mucous tubercles, and rapidly cures the skin spots. Slight though these results be, there is the more reason for giving mercury in the secondary stage, because of the tendency to dangerous iritis, against which the drug is very effective. The best plan of treatment is as follows:—The primary ulcer should be only locally treated; distinct secondary symptoms should be treated by rubbing in blue ointment; salivation should be avoided. All relapses should be treated in this way. Verneuil laid down the following maxims : (i) Syphilis may be treated as soon as the diagnosis is certain ; there is no reason for delay; for although the expectant method gives a clear view of the nature and the course of the disease, precious time is lost by it. (a) The treatment must be long and patient; syphilis takes at least two years for cure. , , (3) Syphilis may* no doubt, be cured spontaneously, but this is rare.