99 PATHOLOGY OF THE SYMPATHETIC. Pathology of the Sympathetic. Drs. Eulenburg and Guttmann have summed up the amount of our existing positive knowledge as to the pathology of the sympathetic. They treat— (i) of the traumatic lesions of the cervical sympathetic ; (2) of hemicrania ; and (3) of Basedow's (Graves's) disease. (1) Traumatic lesions consist of compression by tumours and shot wounds of the sympathetic in the neck. The phenomena produced by compressing tumours iu the neck are usually paralytic, and consist in contraction of the pupil and congestion of the vessels with increased sweating. Occasionally a tumour acts irritatively, and then the pupil is dilated. Usually the condition of the pupil is more conspicuous than the vaso- motor symptoms. Shot wounds of the sympathetic often occurred in the American war. Ten weeks after an injury there existed great narrowing of the pupil, especially when the eye was closed. Slight ptosis, slight hanging of the outer corner of the upper lid, diminution of the size of the globe, injection of the conjunctiva, flow of tears, myopia and reddening of the face on that side during exertion. (2) Hemicrania of late years is explained as a neurosis of the sympathetic, chiefly by Du Bois-Beymond, who studied it in his own person, and established the fact that the symptoms all arose from spasm of the muscular coats of the arteries. He placed the seat of the pain in the muscular walls of the vessels in which, through the double opera- tion of contraction and of dilatation by the contents, the sensory muscular nerves are irritated, each pulsation increasing the pain. The authors of the present Bummary propound another theory. They attribute the pain to anaemia of the affected half of the head, pro- ducing irritation of the sensory nerves, either of the brain itself or of those of the membrane, or of the pericranium, or of the external skin. Bornetwuk, resting upon the theory of Du Bois-Beymond, has tried to 'explain the successful operation of caffein, quinine, &c, in attacks of migraine, inasmuch as these remedies remove the atony of the vascular walls which follows the spasm. Mollendorff has lately expressed the opinion that in hemicrania there is either a typic or an atypic active congestion of the brain, produced by weakness of the vaso-motor nerves. He says nothing of a primary spasm of the latter. The foundation of his opinion is extremely weighty in the opinion of our authors, and it would thus appear that hemicrania may depend upon two opposite con- ditions, anamria and hyperemia. The remarkable slowing of the pulse mentioned by Mollendorff depends on direct irritation of the medulla oblongata and the vagi. The former is the centre of most vaso-motor nerves; one comes to understand that its irritation can produce narrowing of the radial artery in the attacks and secondary lowering of temperature at the periphery of the body. The remaining phenomena of hemicrania can easily be explained by paralysis of the vessels. Both opinions as to the nature of hemicrania point to a local treatment, and that through the cranial vaso-motor nerves. The best remedy is galvanization of the sympathetic, which is Bhown by the experience both of Benedict and of Eulenburg and Guttmann to be extremely effective, especially in palliating the pain ('Arch. f. Psych, und NervcDkr.,' p. 421, 1868 ; ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 139, p. 290.)