194 1USP0B.T ON SUItGEIlY. away from the blood into a pure atmosphere as quickly as it passed into the blood from the receiver in which it was previously confined ; suffer- ing no change itself, and causing no obvious gross chemical changes in the fluids or tissues of the^bodyj; it certainly seems peculiarly fitted as an agent for producing temporary conditions of the economy. On the muscles and hearts of frogs it has no more effect than nitrogen or hydrogen." The writer then goes on to contrast with this the action of the nitric oxide, which is excessively greedy of oxygen, and therefore at once robs the blood of all its free oxygen. In the same journal ('Brit. Med. Journ.,'April 25, 1868) is an account of the administration of this gas for a few minor operations (all of very short duration) at St. Bartholomew's, accompanied by the fol- lowing opinion from Mr. Paget:—"After seeing Mr. Coleman give the nitrous oxide at St. Bartholomew's, I cannot doubt its sufficiency for procuring total insensibility to the pain of short operations. The appearance of asphyxia is alarming; but it is so brief that one may believe that, even if it were more profound, it might do no harm. The question of danger, however, can only be decided by the results of some thousands of cases. There is certainly great need of improving the means of administration. With an apparatus so cumbrous as that which Mr. Coleman has to use, it would be impossible to employ the nitrous oxide largely in general practice." In the same paper (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 25, 1868) is the fol- lowing report of a discussion on this subject at the Medical Society of London :—"At a meeting of this society, on April 13, Mr. Hunt drew attention to the use of nitrous oxide as an anaesthetic, which had been urged upon the profession.—The President considered that nitrous oxide was no true anaesthetic, but an asphyxiating agent. It did not diffuse into the blood, but prevented the normal oxygenation; its action upon animals was rapidly fatal. It could not be other than a dangerous agent, and its employment was a retrogression in science.—Dr. Sansoin greatly agreed with the President. Nitrous oxide had been formerly tried and found wanting; it was an asphyxiating agent, and no asphyx- iating agent could be a mere negation; for whenever there was deficient oxygenation of blood there was always accumulation of the products of disintegration which were in themselves poisons. Nitrous oxide was greatly inferior to chloroform,- both as to its management and its prospects of safety." Dr. Sansom further develops his objections to nitrous oxide in a letter to the same journal (May 9, 1868) in the following terms : " First. Inasmuch as anaesthesia is a boon for the many and for the moment, I think there is an inherent a priori objection in any agent which is gaseous or requires cumbrous machinery for its administration. " Secondly. The action of nitrous oxide is excitant (sometimes to the extent of producing a condition in which the subject becomes un- manageable). It produces effects which are singularly various in dif- ferent individuals. Its phenomena have a complete analogy with those of asphyxia. " Thirdly. Its action is complicated by grave dangers. It is impossible