REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 418 termittent character, were notable symptoms. Quiverings of the muscles, especially those of the hands, face, and tongue, were prominent. There was sometimes incomplete paralysis of the extremities, preferably the lower ones, but the muscles still retained their susceptibility to irritation by the electric current. The disturbances of sensation are usually slight, and consist of formication, numbness of the hands and feet, in some cases diminution of sensation of touch. The sight is unaffected, but the hearing is often impaired. Headache of the most varied situation and character is frequently troublesome. Sometimes so-called muscular rheumatism is present. In mild cases there is no pyrexia; but in severer cases, where more arsenic has been received into the body, there is fever, often of an intermittent type, though there may have been no exposure to malaria, speedy prostration of strength, and inflammation of different organs. During the influence of arsenic on the system the progress of syphilis appears not unfrequently to be in abeyance. Children are less susceptible to the chronic form of arsenical poisoning than adults. In diagnosing chronic arsenical poisoning in dwellers in rooms covered with green papers, Dr. Kirchgasser relies upon the signs of alterations in the vital fluids: weakness out of all proportion to the local lesions, the cachectic appearance of the patient, and coldness of the extremities. If the sick person recover on change of air, and arsenical pigment be present on the walls of his dwelling, the diagnosis is strengthened. Greater reliance is placed upon a peculiar set of symptoms than upon any peculiar pathognomonic appearance, for there is no characteristic symptom of this form of poisoning. This set of symptoms consists of a brownish discoloration of the face, inflammation of the eyelids, dis- turbances of mobility, especially in the lower limbs, and a burning sensation during micturition. These are associated with intermittent symptoms and flying rheumatic pains. If arsenic be present in the pigment of the walls, and, above all, if it be detected in the faeces, the diognosis is confirmed. M. A. Chevallier publishes a number of cases of arsenical poisoning, chiefly by arsenious acid, in which various antidotes were employed.* The hydrated peroxide of iron appears to have acted most successfully, even in severe cases; and this remedy would appear to be as efficacious when air-dried as when in the moist condition. Carbonate of iron acts like the peroxide, but the use of the latter is preferable. According to Mialhe, hydrate sulphide of iron is an excellent antidote, and is even better than the oxide. The ferric subacetate has been recommended by Duflos, the acetate being useless. Sulphuretted mineral waters are, perhaps, of use. Chevallier states that vegetable charcoal is valueless in cases of arsenical poisoning, and that animal charcoal is little better except it be washed. Magnesia suspended in water forms an insoluble compound with arsenious acid, and is a good antidote. Albumen, as is shown by Kegnal's recent experiments, possesses no properties anti- dotal to arsenic. Phosphorus.—The medico-legal history of this important mineral poison has of late received some extension, and cases of poisoning by * ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxx, pp. 124, 423.