KIDNEY DISEASES. 173 is heated to 3i2°F. If a small amount of sugar only is present a blue mirror of metallic silver is formed. If no sugar is present the fluid is only clouded. There aro various methods of determining the quantity of sugar in urine; the simplest is that introduced by Dr. Roberts, of Man- chester— a method which only requires an accurate pair of scales. The other methods require a great many instruments and test-fluids, among which are the polarimeter of Biot, the saccharo-meter of Soleil, the diabetemeter of Bobiquet, &c. The test-fluids of Fehling are espe- \- adapted for determining the quantity of sugar. The instruments of Biot, Soleil, and Bobiquet, by a deviation of polarized light to the right, show very quickly and correctly the amount of the secretion of sugar. Every deviation of the ray of light one degree on the circular scale is made to correspond to one grain of sugar in a thousand grammes of fluid. According to Boberts's method no particular apparatus is re- quired. The specific gravity of the urine to be tested is to be taken at the ordinary temperature of the sick room. Several ounces of urine are to be poured into a vessel, and a piece of solid yeast, the size of a hazel-nut, added. The vessel is then lightly stoppered, aud placed in a warm room while fermentation proceeds. "When this is completed, which generally happens in about eighteen hours, the fluid is allowed to cool to the temperature of the sick room, and allowed to clear up. It is then decanted, and the specific gravity again taken, when every degree of loss in weight represents one grain of sugar in an ounce of urine. Dr. B. J. BZensley makes, in the ' St. Bartholomew's Hospital Beports,' vol. hi, some observations on Dr. Boberts's method of esti- mating diabetic sugar. He says that the determination would be much better if weighed than if estimated by the urinometer. For by the latter means error may be introduced—(i) By any soluble matter con- tained in the yeast. (2) No allowance is made for change of volume in the process of fermentation. (3) The urinometer never gives results as accurate as those afforded by the balance. He says that in several specimens of diabetic urine he has examined there has been a slight loss of bulk after fermentation. He, however, concludes that, taking the fluid ounce as that of the British Bharmacopceia, and the sugar as crystalline glucose, Dr. Boberts's rule gives a number slightly too great, but whose excess above the true number is less than its sixty-fourth part. This must be considered highly satisfactory. In the same volume Dr. Dyce Duckworth makes some observations on the elimination of various matters by the kidneys. His results do not correspond with those of M. Corlieu and others. He shows that healthy kidneys do excrete the pigment of logwood and indigo, and that diseased kidneys may transmit odoriferous bodies. These facts, especially the last, were held by the observers referred to to indicate the line between health and disease in the renal structures. He is of opinion that in chronic albuminuria something more than mere transudation of serum M necessary to explain the occurrence of so much albumen in the urine. He is inclined to adopt Dr. Basharn's view, viz. that it results from the