UEPOltT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 80 9 oz. cooked, meat, with 213 grs. of nitrogen; 12 oz. of potatoes, with 12 grs. of nitrogen; 3 oz. of cabbage, with 'i of nitrogen; 6 oz. of milk, with i6-<; grs. of nitrogen ; 3 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of butter, '2 5 of salt, 20 oz. of tea, 20 oz. of coffee, and 3 to 9 oz. of water. Taking the results obtained in both series of experiments into consideration, it appeared that with an unchanged ingress of nitrogen into the system there was a slight excess of nitrogenous excretion during rest, as com- pared with a period of ordinary exercise. There was also a decrease of urinary nitrogenous excretion during active exercise, as compared with a period of rest; and this was perceptible both when the ingress of nitrogen was stopped as well as when nitrogen was supplied in regular amount. There was an excess, not great, but long continued, in nitro- genous excretion after exercise. There was a retention of nitrogen in the system when it was again supplied, after having been cut off, after both rest and exercise, and greatest in the latter case, showing that it is needed in the system, and that an insufficient supply at one time must be subsequently compensated. The explanation of the above facts, which Prof. Parkes propounds, is that during action a muscle appropriates more nitrogen than it gives off, and during rest gives off more than it appro- priates ; or, more fully, when a voluntary muscle is brought into action by the influence of the will it appropriates nitrogen and grows ; the stimulus, or the act of union, gives rise to changes in the non-nitro- genous substances surrounding the ultimate elements of the muscular substance, which cause the conversion of heat into motion. The con- traction continues (the will still acting) until the effete products of these changes arrest it; a state next ensues during which time the effete products are removed, the muscle loses nitrogen, and can again be called into action by a stimulus. If, in addition to these observations, the calculations of Prof. Haughton be considered, by which it is shown that the combustion of such an amount of protein as would produce 500 grs. of urea is insufficient to account for the internal and external mechanical work done by the body, there is substantial ground for maintaining that, although the exercise of the muscles is accompanied by a certain disintegration or oxidation of their tissue, which accounts for a portion of the urea elimiuated, the rest proceeding from the direct oxidation in the blood of the albuminous constituents of that fluid, yet that the main source of muscular energy is to be looked for in the oxidation of hydro-carbonaceous compounds, the heat developed by which the muscles can convert into mechanical force. "Weigelin * has, nevertheless, lately put forth the statement that, Although there is not any material increase in the amount of urea eliminated during labour, there is a marked increase, amounting to as much as 50 per cent., in the period immediately succeeding to labour. He finds, also, that persistent or unproductive muscular exertion pro- duces more urea than in that which effects work. The chief regulator of the quantity of urea is the nature of the food. Prof. Haughton estimates 2 grs. per lb. of body weight as the vital constant, or that portion which is produced by the internal work of the body required to * ' Reichert's Archiv,' 1868, p. 207.