REPORT ON SUlIOEItY. 31S the special diseases of the male genital organs do not even allude to the complaint, and in the records of English surgery there are only- two instances. T. V—, a labourer in the country, set. 44, was admitted into Lazarus ward on the 14th Jan. 1865. He stated that he had been Buffering from continued priapism for ten days. The only statement he made was, that after copulation the penis remained permanently erect. During the first week he felt passionate venereal desires, which sub- sided, and have not recurred. The cavernous bodies seemed to be the chief seat of the lesion, for the glans penis and corpus spongiosum were not turgid. The man suffered great pain in the part, which was increased by the least attempt at pressure or depression of the organ. He appeared to be cachectic and much out of health, although he stated that he had not been at all so. There was not the slightest evidence of any disease in any other organ of his body, each of which was carefully examined, especially the brain. A common embrocation was immediately applied, and two days after admission Mr. Birkett introduced a bistoury through the fibrous tissue of the penis into the cells of the corpora cavernosa in two places on each side. Dark, thick, blood-like fluid flowed, resembling that which escapes from a large blood swelling when punctured. Jan. 18th.—The penis rather cedematous, especially the glans; pain in the part less; priapism scarcely altered. 20th.—On the right side the swelling was more than on the left, and there was a distinct sensation of fluctuation. An incision was made, but only the same kind of bloody fluid as before escaped, with a trace of pus. Warmtb and moisture were applied by means of wet lint and gutta-percha. 23rd.—More punctures were made on both sides, as the man bitterly complained of pain, and the penis had not diminished in size. Warmth and moisture continued. 27th.—Bloody fluid and a little pus escaped from the punctures; less pain in, and diminished rigidity of, the penis. Complains of pain in the perinaeuin. During the whole of the time to which this report refers he passed urine without any difficulty, and with only slight pain. Feb. 4th.—Not so much pain; the erection is less, the corpora cavernosa being no longer rigid and hard, although there remains an cedeniatous state of the glans. Pressure by means of strips of soap plaster employed. There has been very slight constitutional disturb- ance. During the early part of this month the man progressed favor- ably, and was able to leave his bed and walk about; but towards the end of it suppuration took place in the left corpus cavernosum. An incision was made into it, about an inch below the glans, and pus and some sloughs came away. The finger could be passed into the fibrous capsule, and towards the cms into the perineal region. Strapping continued. March.—During the whole of this month pus escaped from the openings in the sides of the penis, which were carefully kept open, whilst the sides of the organ were compressed by strips of plaster. AVater-dressiug was applied over the apertures.