APHASIA. 83 central ganglia. Batenian remarks that the opinion of writers is divided on the question, whether intelligence is, as a rule, affected in aphasia. Trousseau held the opinion that the mental faculties were always more or less impaired; hut Professor Lordet's was an instance of the occurrence of aphasia, whilst the highest intellectual power was retained. Bateman's case was quite similar during its early stage. Bateman's next case is one of amnesic aphasia, with right hemiplegia, in which the posterior part of the left hemisphere was found softened after death. The anterior lobes were healthy. The defect of speech was here confined to a confusion in the choice of words to express his thoughts. He died after an apoplectiform seizure. The case some- what corresponds to one related by Abercrombie. The next case is one of right, and subsequently left hemiplegia, with loss of speech for a time. After death the sole lesion was the presence of a clot in the central part of each hemisphere, evidently embarrassing the motor centres. The case next related is one of aphasia with right hemiplegia, where after death nothing was found amiss with the anterior lobes, but there was some disease of bone at the centre of the fossa corresponding to the middle lobe of the brain on the left side. The case was doubt- less syphilitic. An interesting fact is that the patient's brother had right hemiplegia with dysphagia. This and the two former cases are direct negative instances against Broca's theory, and form a very powerful objection to it. The next illustration is a case of paraplegia and spinal symptoms with loss of speech, but never any permanent paralysis that could be referred to the brain. Another case recorded by Bateman is one of atactic aphasia occurring as a climacteric symptom. No amount of prompting would assist this patient in the least. Her difficulty was solely one of muscular ordination. It is curious that in this case the lesion of speech first occurred after severe sore throat, which may possibly have been diphtheritic. Bateman regards it as pos- sible that the symptoms might be due to uraemia in some form. In fact, there was partial suppression of urine pretty frequently. Bateman's next case is one of left hemiplegia with aphasia. No disease was found in the frontal convolutions, but there was extensive disease in the right hemispheres, vegetations on the aortic and mitral valves, and fibrous clots in the spleen. The cardiac disease was doubtless the primary cause of the softening of the cerebral tissue, and it is likely that vege- tations like those found on the valves after death had been carried into one or more of the cerebral vessels. Bateman remarks on this case, that left hemiplegia, with loss of speech, is, he believes, much more common than is generally supposed. Dr. Crichton Brown has collected six cases of this sort. All the symptoms are in direct antagonism to the theories both of Dax and Broca. Although the series of papers is not concluded within our period, it is apparent that Dr. Bateman is inclined to reject all the theories as yet propounded as insufficient to account for the production of aphasia. Dr. Alexander Kobertson, of Glasgow, relates three cases of aphasia, upon which he bases some general remarks on the theory of the disease. It is his opinion that in aphasia there is a lesion usually in the left hemisphere of the brain of efferent fibres passing between the convolu-