IU3P0RT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. 76 cervical enlargement the grey substance was morbidly changed. Both at the grey commissure and in the horns the grey matter surrounding the central canal was overlaid with numerous amyloid bodies, which were densest throughout the whole grey commissure. It is plain that embolism, produced by dislodgment of matter from the mitral valve, was the cause of all the brain symptoms. The patient had had two attacks of melancholia before, from which she had improved, but never recovered ('Vierteljhrsch. f. Psychiatrie,' i, i, 1867). Hypodermic Injection of Remedies in Mental Diseases. Dr. Reissner records the result of a large experience in this mode of treatment of insane persons. Of the six alkaloids of opium, he found morphia, codeia, and narceia useful; while thebain, narcotine, and papaverine seemed to be useless. Codeia is very near to morphia in its effects, but presents no particular point of advantage over it. Its appli- cation need only be tried in those occasional cases in which morphia or narceia has failed. Morphia is much more useful than narceia, and there is no difficulty of application. Its operation is more striking than that of the other alkaloids of opium, but is by no means purely narcotic, and some of its peculiarities are undesirable in a therapeutic point of view. If if fails to narcotise, as it pretty often does, the effect is by no means a negative one, for there are often stomach and other symptoms of an uncomfortable kind. Another mischief is, that when we come to the very high doses the line is uncommonly fine between what is and what is not poisonous. Narceia has no contra indications, and may be given in cases where morphia cannot be used, and, indeed, is the one special remedy for such a case. It is especially given for checking vomiting and controlling the circulation. In any instance where both morphia^ and narceia may be equally given, the latter is always to be preferred. It is a special hyp- notic, and the sleep which it brings is most closely like that of health. It has the great recommendation that an over-dose does little harm. The doses may be pushed as high as a grain and a half or two grains in bad cases with advantage. Its action in producing sleep is more sure than that of morphia. It should thus be applied, in the first instance, in all cases where it is required to produce sleep. Indian hemp has been tried by Reissner in many cases. He employs a 6 per cent, solution of the extract in strong rectified spirit. He has never found the slightest effect. Even in a case where he employed about eleven grains of the extract, in several injections, in the course of two hours there was only a slight irregularity of the pulse, and a frac- tional elevation of temperature. There was always a local swelling pro- duced, which lasted some time, but quietly disappeared. Although the results are so far unsatisfactory, the author thinks that the hypodermic use of Indian hemp has a future before it. Finally, the author has tried various purgatives, namely, croton oil, colocynth, and elaterium, by subcutaneous injection. He comes, how- ever, to the conclusion that as yet a manageable purgative, capable of hypodermic administration, has to be found. It is, of course, highly