REPORT ON SURGERY. BY T. HOLMES. The following extracts refer to new inventions in surgery, or to the reintroduction of methods of treatment which had previously fallen into oblivion. New Ancesthetio Agents. Nitrous oxide.—Of late the nitrous oxide (laughing-gas) has been introduced and extensively used as an anaes- thetic. We extract the following account of its supposed physiological action from the ' British Medical Journal,'April 18, 1868. " In two papers published about four years ago, Dr. Hermann arrived at some interesting results touching the physiological action of nitrous and nitric oxide. (Eeichert, Du Bois Eeymond's ' Archiv,' 1864, p. 521 ; 1865, p. 4*59.) From these researches it would appear that, while laughing-gas is very readily absorbed by blood, it neither enters into combination with, nor produces changes in, nor suffers changes from, the action of blood. It is now generally believed that the oxygen present in blood exists in a peculiar loose combination with the blood- corpuscles, and is not retained by simple physical laws of absorption. Laughing-gas, on the contrary, is merely physically absorbed, and blood will take up rather less of it than it will of water. That is to say, 100 volumes of blood will, at the temperature of the blood, absorb somewhat le3s than 60 volumes of laughing-gas. Blood saturated with laughing- gas shows no sign of change ; the spectrum appearances are the same ; the blood-corpuscles are unaltered; and, according to Hermann, the oxygen is not driven out. In the blood, and probably in the body, laughing-gas suffers itself no change. It does not give up its oxygen for purposes of oxidation, as Sir Humphry Davy thought. It gives rise, therefore, to no free nitrogen; but goes out of the body, as it comes into the body, pure and simple laughing-gas. Hence it is itself of no respiratory use ; and, when mixed with a quantity of oxygen sufficient for the needs of the economy, has no more direct effect on respiration than has nitrogen or hydrogen. " From these facts we may gather that the mode of action of laugh- ing-gas is that of a body having distinct effects on certain parts of the system, and does not depend, like that of some other agents, on any direct interference with the function of respiration. Readily absorbed by blood, and yet with its limit of absorption Boon reached; passing 13