222 REPORT ON SURGERY. the seat of mischief, hut it gave him great pain. His sufferings were so great that the operation was performed on the third day. The side of the oesophagus having been exposed in the usual way,* a stomach- pump tube was passed into it, to make its walls tense. The tube passed down beyond the foreign body. A fish-bone was detected lying between the tube and the spine. This was extracted by carefully pricking through the walls of the oesophagus. The patient recovered, the fistula which at first existed, and allowed of the escape of a part of the food, having healed in three weeks. The second case occurred only four days afterwards. It was that 01 a young man who had swallowed some foreign body in a piece of cab- bage. The symptoms were very much the same as in the last case, viz. great pain, referred to the region of the cricoid cartilage, and great difficulty in swallowing, but fluids could be swallowed. The obstruct- ing body was not to be felt with a probang, which would pass beyond it. The operation was performed on the third day, the incision being made from the left side. The oesophagus was very distinctly exposed, but no foreign body was contained in it at the point which was reached. A vertical incision was then made on to the stomach-pump tube, which was lodged in the oesophagus, and the finger passed down, the tube being withdrawn for the purpose. Nothing was to be felt above the wound, but opposite the manubrium of the sternum a pin was found imbedded in the walls of the oesophagus, and was with much difficulty removed. The patient made a rapid recovery. Dr. Cheever adds a table and references to 15 cases besides his own—viz. 1 by Groursalt in 1738, 1 by Roland (date not known), 2 by Begin in 1832, 1 by Arnott ^iu 1833, 1 by Lavacherie in 1844, 1 by Martini and 1 by Delarocherie in 1845, 1 by Antoniesz in 1853, 1 by Demarquay in 1854, 3 by Syine in 1855, 1861, and 1862, 1 by Cock in 1856, 1 by Flaubert in 1857. Of these, Arnott's, performed five weeks after the accident, Martini's, on the fourth day, Dutnarquay's, on the tenth, and Flaubert's, on the ninth, proved fatal. To these should be now added a second case by Mr. Cock, published since the above pamphlet was written, and reported in the last volume of the ' Gruy's Hospital Reports,' xiii, 3rd series, 1868, p. 1. The patient recovered, making 4 deaths in 18 cases. Dr. Cheever adds a very full and instructive discussion as to all the points connected with the operation, and urges the danger of delay when once the lodgment of a foreign body has been clearly proved ; and this is also Mr. Cock's conclusion from his experience. Mr. Cock is also decidedly in favour of nourishing the patient byr means of a stomach-pump tube passed beyond the wound, even from the day of the operation, and attributes the speedy recovery of both his patients in great measure to this treatment. Connected with the subject of foreign bodies in the oesophagus, we may refer to a case related in the ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, 219, in which a soldier swallowed a piece of bone, which lodged in the oesophagus opposite the arch of the aorta. He died suddenly on the fifth day from * If we understand right, the operation was performed on the right side in this case.