425 -MENINGITIS. culosis of the braiu was found to bo the cause, showing the enormous preponderance of this condition over all other structural changes in the brain. Ho agrees with other authors as to the rarity of haemorrhages in the brain in children. The pathology of tubercular meningitis is discussed ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' 1867) by Dr. Charlton Bastian. Dr. Bastian starts from the following conclusions, which for a long time represented the actual state of scientific opinion:—(1) That the meningeal granulations are of a tubercular nature. (2) That they are identical with the granulations of serous membranes. (3) That they are met with only in subjects whose other organs also contain tubercle. (4) That the disease known as " acute hydrocephalus " is a tubercular malady. The first of these has been rejected by a certain number of French pathologists, whilst, among other things, Dr. Bastian hopes to prove that the second is quite incorrect. He gives two reasons :—First, that the granulations of the pia mater are something altogether peculiar, having intimate relations with the arteries in this situation, and with certain perivascular sheaths which surround them, but which do not surround those of the other serous membranes; so that, whereas, in the pia mater the granulations are always immediately connected with the arteries, and, moreover, present histological peculiarities in the serous membranes, such as the pleura or peritoneum, they have been shown to have local aggregations of cells, mostly of a fibro-plastic nature, with an amorphous intercellular substance. Second, that the arachnoid cannot be considered as an ordinary serous membrane. Dr. Bastian then explains the nature of the hyaline layer of connective tissue found by "Wedl, Bokitansky, and Sankey, in certain morbid states of the brain, and the perivascular canals described by Robin and His, and verified by Lockhart Clarke. Dr. Bastian says he has met with these perivascular sheaths universally surrounding the cerebral and spinal blood-vessels, and also most of those in the pia mater. These sheaths and the perivascular spaces are the seats of several distinct pathological changes. He then relates two cases. He concludes that his observa- tions lend strong support to the doctrines of Virchow and other cellular pathologists, in opposition to those of the humoral pathologists. In every part where new matter existed there seems to have been evidence that this was derived by direct and continuous, though abnormal, pro- cesses of growth out of pre-existing elements. The granulations of the pia mater are almost invariably produced by a multiplication of epi- thelial nuclei within the perivascular sheaths, and so have a most intimate and essential relationship to the vessels; they are not to be considered, therefore, as the very types of tubercle-granulations, but rather as structures altogether sui generis. He concedes, however, that, because the disease is usually met with in individuals of an un- doubtedly tubercular diathesis, and from the almost invariable presence of tubercle in other organs, it is right to keep the name tubercular meningitis as in every way most suitable. Should the opinion of Prof. Hia be correct, that the perivascular canals and the network of passages in the substance of the pia mater are really lymphatics, then this 28