320 itEPOirr on surgery. Azam, spontaneous separation of an adenoma of the breast. ' Gaz. dea Hop.,' 1867, p. 302.—A woman, set. 55, admitted for an inflamed mam- mary tumour; The breast was of enormous size. Thinking it had suppurated, M. Azam made a free opening. Bloody serous fluid was evacuated, but no pus. The same kind of fluid continued to run from the wound till, on the fourth day, a greyish mass presented itself in the wound. This being drawn out, was found to be "a fragment of the gland admirably dissected, with its lobes, its lobules, and its excretory duct; it was macerated in and impregnated with the cystic fluid." Two days afterwards another portion of the gland, weighing 350 grammes, was similarly eliminated, and some more portions of gland-tissue were scraped with the nail off the inside of the cyst. The opening slowly closed after two attacks of erysipelas. All trace of the tumour disap- peared, and the breast resumed its natural size. M. Azam concludes that the movements of the glandular tumour, which had become pedun- culated in the very large cyst formed around it, had in the end de- tached the pedicle, and thus caused the detachment of the mass. H,e conjectures that such cysts are formed as bursaB mucosa? are, by the movements of the skin, &c, over the tumour, and suggests whether it would not be desirable to provoke their formation by artificial move- ments, " by methodically and repeatedly gliding the tissues over the tumour—in a word, by a kind of shampooing." The following refer to venereal affections : Gonorrheal rheumatism in the female.—In the ' Gazette des Hop.,' 1867, p. 34, Dr. Hemey has related two cases of rheumatism in females suffering at the time from gonorrhoea, and which he regards as having a gonorrheal origin. This conclusion was supported in one of the cases by the simultaneous appearance of ophthalmia terminating in staphy- loma iridis. In both cases the urethra was the Beat of active in- flammation, and this the author believes to be a constant condition in gonorrheal rheumatism. In both instances, also, the patients were of a rheumatic family. Dr. Hemey believes that gonorrheal rheumatism only attacks patients who are (either themselves or their family) rheu- matic, gouty, or scrofulous. He dwells much on the flying nature of the rheumatic affections in some parts, while there is, on the other hand, always one joint in which the affection is more prominent and more obstinate. Syjrfiilization.—A record, by Mr. Lane and Mr. Gascoyen, of the cases of syphilis treated in the Lock Hospital by syphilization during the years 1865-6 will be found in the fiftieth volume of the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' p. 281. The cases are 27 in number, divided into those in which the disease was recent, and no mercury had been given, com- prising 22 of the cases, and the remaining 5 in which mercury had been given. All these had suffered from one or more relapses, and amongst them was one very severe case of tertiary disease. Short notes of all the cases are given, diagrams of the inoculations made in three of the cases, and a table at the end showing the lengths of treatment and the number of inoculations. The great majority of the cases were females.