HEPORT ON SURGERY. 328 structcd. This consists merely in boring into the bullet a cylindrical cavity extending from the apex for about two thirds of its length • when in use the orifice of the cavity is closed by a plug of beeswax or boxwood. " "When such a bullet strikes an object presenting considerable re- sistance, the shock is communicated to the column of air in the interior and is immediately distributed in a direction outwards to the walls of' the cavity, producing the most astonishing effects upon the form of the bullet. The wound produced by such a mass must necessarily be fearful, the parts around the aperture of exit being especially liable to laceration, and the effects produced on the animal must differ entirely from those caused by a simple conical bullet; it is to these points that M. Sarazin has recently directed public attention. The effects, moreover upon the internal organs are almost as formidable as those produced by the exploding shell, although not complicated by the escape of large volumes of gas. "It is probable, however, that, unless the bullet struck directly upon its apex—that is, upon the orifice of the cylindrical chamber—the effects would not be so marked as in the case represented above, and in this particular the Chassepot, Boxer, and similar bullets are inferior to the exploding shells. " The prospect of success in the treatment of such injnries would not appear very promising ; but as yet there has fortunately been no oppor- tunity of testing this point." The following extracts refer to miscellaneous subjects: Tetanus.—In the 51st vol. of the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,'p. 265, Dr. Dickinson describes and figures the condition of the spinal cord in a case of acute tetanus which proved fatal in eighteen hours after the first accession of symptoms. Dr. Dickinson's paper confirms the assertion of Mr. Lockhart Clarke (in the 48th volume of the same ' Transactions'), founded on the examinations of six cases, that there are distinct and extensive structural lesions to be found in the spinal cord in fatal cases of tetanus. In the present case there were three remarkable swellings in the spinal cord visible to the naked eye, about the size of peas. The vessels of the cord, when examined microscopically, after preparation by Mr. Lockhart Clarke's process, were found gorged with blood; blood-corpus- cles had escaped from the vessels, and were diffused among the nervous structures ; and a structureless, transparent material was also poured out around the blood-vessels. The visible swellings above spoken of were due to a more extensive exudation of the same substance breaking up the tissue of the cord. Alcoholic narcotism.—In the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,'June 15 and 22, 1867, Dr. Wade, of Birmingham, speaks of the difficulty which is often experienced in establishing a diagnosis between alcoholic or other poisoning, disease of the brain, and injury of the head. He calls attention to a class of cases with which he became familiar while living at the Greneral Hospital as house-physician, of which both the history and the phenomena presented a most singular uniformity.