333 EMPHYSEMA FROM llUPTUltED LUNG. probable tbat in hooping-cough (which is the most frequent cause of this kind of emphysema) these nerves are functionally disordered. " 2nd. The air-cells near the root alone rupture, because elsewhere the lung is firmly enveloped in pleura, and the elastic subpleural layer described by Stokes. "3rd. Out of thirty-eight such recorded cases which I have analysed, thirty-four were in children under four years. At that period the average weight of both lungs is seven ounces, whereas it is six times as much in the adult. These organs rapidly expand from their foetal state, so that the air-cells, which are about 1-250th of an inch at birth, are soon twice that size, their walls being softer and thinner than in the adult. The upper part of the chest in children undergoes the most vigorous movements, and, considering the need for abundant aeration, the respiratory force is several times more powerful in proportion to weight and height than in the adult. In the child the interlobular areolar tissue is extremely fine, and there is little fat in the posterior mediastinum, and the air easily makes its way to the subcutaneous laver; but there, from the abundant fat, it meets resistance, and the emphysema is rarely very extensive. For the above reasons it is very easy to burst the infant lung, and insufflation is said to be an occasional mode of infanticide in Trance. When removed from the chest the lungs bear a much greater expanding force without rupturing, as there is not unequal resistance. Children more frequently cry violently and are more subject to spasmodic cough than adults, and hence, again, their greater proneness to this form of emphysema. " 4th. General emphysema is to be explained only by rupture of some hollow viscus, for the inflation of the areolar tissues with gases evolved by decomposition has not been proved, on reliable evidence, to extend beyond the gangrenous part. " Emphysema from ruptured lung has proved occasionally fatal, and in such cases the mediastinum has been found so greatly distended, and so much air effused under the pulmonary pleura, that apnoea should result. "Lastly, as to treatment. Puncturing the skin and bandaging the chest are the surgical steps which seem advisable in cases in which re- spiration is impeded. William Hunter first advised puncturing the skin, having learned its efficacy in cases of cattle plague. The medias- tinum and interlobular spaces must be relieved accordingly as the air fizzes through the punctures, and the free passage of air, which has been rendered less irritating by being respired, produces no ill effect upon the areolar tissue. " A bandage round the chest is useful in lessening the expiratory force; but if there was much compression of the lung previously, it would be unendurable." Similar cases were alluded to by several other members of the society. Bewnion of an ampututed finger. By Walter Bernard, L.K.Q.C.P. ~-"On the 16th of November, Michael Nellis (shirt collar-cutter, a>t. 19), while removing " a cut of collars " from a circular knife impelled by