DYSTOCIA. 401 pelvis presented themselves, two being uniformly contracted, and there were two exquisite cases of obliquely contracted pelvis. The 79 ordinary cases are subdivided in groups. The first with a conjugate under 3"; 11 labours. In 9 aid was required; 2 were delivered by premature induction of labour ; 3 were delivered by turn- ing ; in one of them the head had to be perforated; 1 was delivered by forceps; 3 by perforation ; 2 of the mothers died ; 4 children were born alive. Second group:—Conjugate 3" to 3'2jj"; 45 labours. In 31 cases labour was spontaneous ; 27 children living; 4 were delivered by turn- ing, 7 by forceps, 3 by perforation ; 6 mothers died; 39 children were born alive. Third group:—Conjugate 3"3o"to 3'$o"; 23 labours. In 20 labours was natural; of these, 19 children were alive ; 2 were delivered by turning, 1 by forceps. All the mothers were discharged well. The two cases of oblique distortion belonged to contractions of extreme degree. In one premature labour was induced. The child died during birth; the mother died of metro-lymphangitis. The pelvis is preserved. The origin of the deformity was traced to injury of the thigh of the side on which the pelvis was deformed. In the third year the patient had suffered a comminuted fracture of the tibia, resulting in a pseudo-arthrosis and permanent shortening of the right leg. The right ilio-sacral joint had undergone synostosis, there was atrophy of the os innominatum. The other case, one of coxalgic oblique deformity, was also delivered by premature induction. The child died. The mother recovered. ('Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' Oct. 1868). Dystocia from the Child. P. Lazzati has an important memoir on some changes of posture of the foetus during pregnancy and labour ('Annali Univ. di M.,' 1867). Face presentations occur almost exclusively in first labours ; the children are mostly well developed; face presentations were more observed in twin labours. Lazzati says there are primary shoulder and face presentations. Labour in shoulder presentations is also discussed in an admirable memoir by Lazzati in the same journal. The subject is further carefully described and illustrated in Dr. Barnes' lectures (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1868). Dr. Winckel has collected ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1867) 376 cases of face labour. They rarely happen, he says, through one cause alone, but almost always through the combined action of two or three factors. The most frequent combination is pelvic narrowing, a large child, scanty liquor amnii; another is pendulous belly, with pelvic narrowing. Dr. Scharlau relates a case of triplets of an unusual kind. A first child, presenting by head, was extracted alive by forceps. The second, presenting by breech, was also delivered alive. Two completely separate placentas were removed. The uterus contracted ; the patient seemed well. Sixty hours afterwards expulsive pains set in and a mass was expelled. This was an intact ovum, with very thick shaggy chorion and a small placenta. The cavity contained stinking liquor amnii, and