APPLICATION OF THE GRAPHIC PROCESS. 149 auscultation or palpation ; and it need hardly be said that under certain circumstances such information is priceless. In a paper by Dr. Anstie ("Keccnt Improvements in Marey's Sphyg- mograph," ' Lancet,' June 10, 1868), instances are referred to in which patients in acute diseases (e. a. typhoid fever) had a pulse which to the touch revealed little or nothing, but which, under exactly graduated spring pressure, showed the force of the heart to be so poor as abso- lutely to require the use of wine, or so good as to render the prognosis favorable and wine unnecessary. Again, in ascertaining the presence and estimating the amount of cardiac hypertrophy, the graduated sphygmograph is sometimes invaluable. It is similarly useful, indeed quite indispensable, in all cases—such as aneurism—in which a com- parison of the arterial pulses of opposite sides must be made. The prognostic and therapeutic indications of the sphygmograph in acute diseases have been discussed by Anstie, in the paper just quoted, and also in his lectures at the College of Physicians (' Lancet,' 1867, ii). "With regard especially to prognosis, the indications of the instrument are of great value. Not merely is much information afforded by observation of the amount of pressure required to obtain the maximum pulse-tracing, but various points in the formation of the pulse-wave are very important. Anstie confirms the general statements of "Wolff as to the essential nature of the change of the pulse-wave in pyrexia, as to its secondary markings—viz. its change from the tricrotism of health to a dicrotic form; and as to the correspondence between the depth of the dicrotic notch and the severity of the pyrexia. He gives a different estimate from "Wolff's, however, as to the temperatures with which the different degrees of dicrotism respectively correspond. And he insists much more strongly than "Wolff on the fatal indications afforded by two particular forms of curve. (1) The doubly undulatory curve—a small hyper dicrotic pulse-curve, with bluntly rounded apex, and loiththe general line of maximum and minimv/m pressure constantly and irregularly changing its elevation. He shows that the fatal significance of this curve rests in the fact that it proves the propelling power of the ventricle varies from moment to moment; it is, in fact, a sign of extreme cardiac exhaustion, and not improbably of that kind of exhaus- tion which accompanies ' Zenkerism' of the cardiac muscular structures. Another trace which Anstie finds from a large experience (especially in fever) to be absolutely fatal in significance is late in the disease, when a very small and rapid pulse produces a tracing in which the line of ascent is vertical and the apex sharp, but the line of descent is convex towards the line of ascent, and is entirely destitute of secondary markings. Both of these fatal forms of pulse-curve have been frequently observed by the author. On the other hand, he draws attention to a large form of pulse-curve, devoid, or nearly devoid, of secondary markings, which occurs early in some acute diseases, which experience has shown to be of decidedly good omen. A very important use of the sphygmograph, in the future, will pro- bably be its employment as a test of the action of various remedies upon the circulation. Anstie shows in the above-quoted lectures that alcohol diminishes or heightens arterial tension accordingly as it acts as