HAY FEVER OH SUMMKit CATARRH. 65 far better than with the idea of one common fever poison capable of generating all the phenomena of typhus and also those of typhoid and of relapsing fever. The patient was a young man employed nearly constantly in some very ill-ventilated underground wine-vaults, and somewhat addicted to drinking. He appears in some way to have ab- sorbed the typhus poison, and while in the stage of incubation for that disease to have received a very strong dose of sewer gas from lying all night dead drunk, half immersed in a foul ditch close to a sewer. The typhoid symptoms appeared first, and were complicated with an attack of pleuro-pneumonia ; but in the second week of his illness the macula? of true typhus appeared, and he rapidly developed the intense cerebral depression of that disease. Although he seemed at one moment to be slightly improving, a critical perspiration set in about one week after the appearance of the typhus rash, and he succumbed the same evening ('Med. Press and Circular,' Feb. 13, 1867). Hay Fever or Summer Catarrh. Dr. Pirrie is of opinion that under the name of hay fever two distinct diseases are usually confounded; one of these is a markedly spasmodic affection, a true asthma, excited by the irritating influence which certain vegetable particles borne on the air, and possibly the benzoic acid developed by the influence of sunlight upon certain grasses at this particular time of the year, exert upon the bronchial membrane. Some individuals certainly cannot either go into the hayfield or be anywhere near a flowering meadow without cough and dyspnoea, sneezing, weeping, &c.; others, again, experience the same symptoms on smelling ipe- cacuanha, roses, or the vapours of iodine, &c. In all such cases the attack is unaccompanied by constitutional symptoms, is of short dura- tion, and ceases when the patient leaves the deleterious atmosphere. The second form is also peculiar to summer, but it differs from the above-described disease in being attended with fever, in lasting longer, and in the predisposition which certain persons show to it. It depends on no irritation of the mucous membrane, but on the congested con- dition of the organs of respiration, which is produced by the weakening influence of temperature upon the cerebro-spinal and ganglionic system. It has, in fact, close relations to sun-stroke. It is much more common in the dwellers in towns than in country folk, who, of course, are more exposed to the odours of grasses than the former; and the patients frequently declare expressly that they got their illness from heat. The characteristic symptoms are weakness, loss of sleep and appetite, and especially pain and heat in the head, giddiness, noises in the ears, weeping, sneezing, and irritation of the nose, a sore feeling iu the throat, which appears red and swollen, pain in chest, and difficulty in breathing, cough, and expectoration of mucous serous fluid, dry hot Bkin, variable pulse, and a long-continued weakness during conva- lescence. It appears that the ordinary remedies for catarrh are of no use in this disease. General nervous excitability and weakness seem to predispose to this malady. The best treatment seems to be rest in a cool shady room during the day, walking at the cool hours of the day, 5