125 1'IBKOID PHTHISIS. (4) The actual product of this state appears either as a true fibrous tissue or as a tough, hard, amorphous fibrogeuous substance. The latter is closely akin to the amyloid material, and even in the lung is some- times reddened by iodine. It does not appear to be the product of cell proliferation, but to be the result of a real exudation in the ordinary sense of that term. The former can always be traced into continuity with perilobular, peribronchial, perivascular, or subpleural areolar tissue. The latter occupies the alveoli, and is often found in isolated patches; structural elements such as are seen in adjacent plots are often found in it. When nuclei are present in it, it is the ordinary circular nuclei of the alveolar walls, and not the spindle-shaped or oat-like nuclei of connective tissue. In other organs the fibrogenous material sometimes contains oat-shaped nuclei derived from proliferation of the vascular walls. To this source are to be referred many of the nucleated fibres and spindle-shaped cells supposed to be illustrations of the cellular development of fibrous tissue. (5) "When the disease is not of constitutional origin there will be found evidence either of the pursuit of some occupation exposing the patient to the inhalation of irritating substances of the existence of tubercular phthisis, long-continued bronchitis, or of some previous attack of acute disease, such as fibrogenous pleurisy, pericarditis, or what the author has called of corpuscular form of pneumonia. (6) The disease commonly affects one lung, and more commonly the left than the right. (7) If the disease affects both lungs, it is, as a rule, either the effect of mechanical irritation or it is accompanied and has probably been caused by the presence of tubercles. In rare cases the double affec- tion may be caused by rheumatism or syphilis. (8) In fibroid phthisis there is always contraction of the chest-walls. The percussion dulness is harder, higher pitched, and more uniformly continuous than in any other lung disease; resistance of thoracic parietes is greatly increased; intercostal spaces are depressed; some- times the lung is tubercular; vocal fremitus is at one time increased, at another time greatly diminished. Over the fibroid lung one hears blow- ing breath sounds, often without audible prolongation of expiration, occasionally cough, dry and moist rales, superficial creaking, and diffuse bronchophony; over cheesy deposits of any extent the breath-sounds are sharply tubular, the expiration prolonged, and the vocal resonance bronchophonic, sniffling, and circumscribed. (9) If the apex of the diseased lung is early involved in the solidifi- cation there is reason to suspect the existence of tubercles. If there is moist crackling in the supraspinous fossa the suspicion amounts to probability; and if with the slightest dulness over the summit of the opposite lung there is any moist crepitation, doubt is practically no longer possible. (10) "When the lung below the solidification is healthy expiration is peculiarly prolonged and puffy. (11) When cavities exist they commonly occupy the mammary region ; occasionally they are found in the base, and with extreme rarity in the summit of the lung.