REPORT OX .MEDICAL JUItlSPKUDENCK. ■J. OS absolutely diagnostic, since they are frequently present in other modes of death ; and this assertion, is supported from the writings of Bayard, Liman, and Maschka. Ssabinski, moreover, supports his statements by quoting many cases from various authors where ecchymoses were observed when the cause of death was certainly not suffocation, and others of death from suffo- cation where uo ecchymoses were observed. He consequently con- cludes that Tardieu's test is quite unreliable, especially when the question is whether death has resulted from suicidal or homicidal violence. Ssabinski, in his experiments, was led, however, to notice a very re- markable diagnostic sign of suffocation—anaemia of the spleen, a con- dition which he thinks to be a constant result of suffocation. This is the more remarkable inasmuch as the spleen forms part of the same circulatory system as the stomach, liver, and other organs, which, in such cases, are found highly congested after death. Ten animals (dogs and cats) were destroyed by compression of the chest and abdomen, burying in sand, throttling, hanging, and drowning, and in every in- stance the spleen was found to be very anaemic ; whilst Tardieu's ecchy- motic spots were observed in only one case, of death from compression of the chest and abdomen in a dog. Two puppies had their spleens exposed, and small incisions made in them, from which blood flowed freely. The nose and mouth of the animals were then closed. Besides the usual signs of suffocation, the spleen in each case was seen to con- tract and become wrinkled, bloodless, and dry. The blood ceased to flow from the incisions. In one of the puppies the transverse diameter of the organ contracted from 5 mm. to 2 mm. On removing the obstruc- tion from the mouth and nostrils the animal recovered, aud the spleen gradually regained its normal size and appearance. On again obstruct- ing the mouth and nostrils of one of the puppies the phenomena were repeated. The other puppy had the diaphragm slit up, when, as a con- sequence, the spleen again contracted and became anaemic. The same results were obtaiued when the vagi were divided before suifocating the animal. When, however, the nerves and vessels of the spleen were tied, with the exception of one very small eord in which the arteries and nerves were left untouched, hyperaemia was the result. When the death ensued from opening the pleural cavity anaemia of the spleen was still observed. Asphyxia.—Dr. Ivan G-wosdew,* of Moscow, has investigated the blood-spectrum in cases of death from asphyxia, and by a beautiful mechanical contrivance has obtained the blood in a fit state for micro- scopic examination, without allowing access of air. His communica- tion, which is a preliminary one, holds out good hopes of a new and valuable practical test being added to forensic medicine. Infanticide. Breslauf has laid down the following propositions : —(i) In still- * 'Du Bois Reymond's Archiv,' 18C8, p. 635. f ' Monatsschr. f. Geburtskunde,' xxv, p. 238.