REPORT ON SURGERY. 274 trephining, eight months after gunshot injury, by Balassa, at Pesth, in 1849, for paralysis of sight, hearing, and speech, and partial hemiplegia, and epileptiform convulsions. Some pus was found under a depressed piece of bone, and the patient gradually recovered, but with recurrences of palpitation, not accompanied with total loss of consciousness, at rare intervals. The patient came into the ward of Prof. Pitha in 1864 on account of an accident, and his condition is described by Dr. Scholz in the 'Allg. mil. arz. Ztg.,' 1, 1865. Some remains of the paralysis were still to be noticed in weakness of the right side, and difference in the focus of the two eyes. Encephalocele successfully removed.—In the ' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' April, 1867, Mr. Annandale relates a case in which he successfully removed a tumour from the back of the head, evidently encephalic. At the time of removal the infant was seven weeks old. The tumour had been the size of the child's head at birth, "and shortly afterwards was tapped by the mother's medical attendant, and a large quantity of clear fluid drawn off. The sac speedily refilled, and was attacked with in- flammation, which was followed by sloughing of the most dependent portion of the tumour, and an escape of purulent fluid, which has con- tinued ever since. On examination I found a pedunculated tumour, the size of a large pear, hanging from the occiput. At the lower extremity of the tumour there was a ragged opening (large enough to admit the points of three fingers) which passed into a granulating cavity nearly the size of a hen's egg. The remainder of the tumour was composed of solid textures, principally skin and areolar tissue, thickened and oedematous. The pedicle or neck was fully an inch in length, and almost as thick as an adult thumb. It felt solid in con- sistence, and was closely connected with an opening which could be felt in the occipital bone immediately below its occipital protuberance, although no actual communication could be detected between it and the interior of the cranium. The opening in the occipital bone was about the size of a shilling. The scalp round the pedicle and the skin of the upper part of the neck hung loose—a result of the original large size of the tumour. The cavity already referred to was suppurating freely, and the child's strength was beginning to fail very much from this cause." A double ligature was tied upon the pedicle, and the mass removed. The child suffered no inconvenience from the operation, and recovered completely, in spite of a sharp attack of measles. _ On exami- nation of the tumour removed, besides a large granulating cyst or cavity, there was found a process of solid substance firmly adherent to and inseparable from the surrounding areolar tissue.^ At the side of this was a canal the size of a crow-quill opening into a pyramidal elevation on the wall of the cyst. Microscopical examination did not discover any nerve-fibres in the process, though some resemblance to the delicate connective tissue of the cerebrum was believed to bo perceived. Mr. Annandale remarks upon this case—"Experience has shown that surgical interference in cases of encephalocele and spina bifida is very rarely advisable. The case just related illustrates a condition of