FHACTUKE OF TUIS NECK OF THE SCAPULA. 241 fractured portion inwards, caused by the fragment following the arm, and being drawn into the axilla partly by the force which produced the injury, partly by the traction of the flap of the axilla. There is always an increase iu the length of the injured arm. The fragment, of varying shape, may be felt in the axilla, and sometimes the contour of the head of the humerus may be perceived, but not so plainly as in dislocation. The symptoms of pressure on the brachial plexus, so common in the dis- location, are never present in the fracture. The direction of the arm is always away from the side, and from below upwards and forwards, so that a line drawn upwards from the external condyle of the humerus parallel to the axis of the arm will fall internal to the shoulder-joint. Crepitation is present, and has been described in all the recorded cases except one, and in one case an abnormal mobility of the scapula itself, with no effect on the shoulder, was perceived. There is usually, but not always, great swelling and contusion, and often other severe injuries, since the force required to produce the fracture is usually great. Active motion is generally quite abolished; but passive motions, on the con- trary, are free, though painful, constituting (under chloroform, if necessary) a valuable diagnostic mark. Reduction is easy in the frac- ture, but the deformity recurs when the force is removed. By these signs the fracture can be easily distinguished from the subglenoid dis- location. It is also to be diagnosed from dislocation complicated with fracture of the neck of the humerus, or from the latter injury alone, or separation of its epiphysis. In the first injury the dislocation will be under the pectoral muscle, and accompanied, therefore, by shortening ; the uncomplicated fractures of the humerus want the flattening of the shoulder and the lengthening of the arm which accompany the injury in question. By appropriate treatment the fracture unites in about 5—7 weeks kindly, and with very good use of the arm. The prognosis, therefore, is very favorable. He recommends that the parts be carefully kept iu position while the fracture is being put up, since the deformity is very easily reproduced—that a cushion be placed in the axilla, and a paste- board splint with starch bandage made to embrace the shoulder, arm, and forearm, the hand being raised and applied against the thorax. He regards ligamentous union as being very improbable if the injury is properly treated. In the 'Deutsche Klinik,' 1867, p. 448, a case is recorded under the care of Prof. Volkmann, of Halle, in which after a fall on the knee a portion of the articular surface of the femur was extracted from the joint with the usual symptoms of a "loose cartilage." The patient, a lad, set. 19 who had never had anything the matter with the knee before, had experienced a heavy fall on it, with the limb in acute flexion; this was accompanied by a sharp pain and a sense of cracking m the joint. He managed to walk home with assistance, though with great pain and difficulty. There was no contusion about the knee, and he seemed to have fallen rather upon the foot in a sitting posture than on the knee itself. The accident was followed by considerable effusion of fluid into the joint, which was believed to be blood, and on the day 16