309 INTUSSUSCEPTION. tells me there was a very small fifth rough one, which was lost. The smooth ones had a chalk-white colour; the largest was one and a half inch long, one and one fourth of an inch wide, and one inch thick. It was oval, and only one side showed a little evenness, from attrition. The other four smooth stones, of which the smallest was only half an inch long and about three eighths of an inch in width and thickness—while the re- maining three were of intermediate size between the smallest and largest—had all originally a round or oval shape; but each one had the sphericity broken by two planes meeting at a right angle, caused by the grinding of the stones one against the other. The four stones, by putting them together, the corresponding planes facing each other, gave evidence that their relative position must have been all but per- manent. The larger stone must have lodged on top of this cyclopic masonwork. "The four rough stones were quite small; but each one was studded on its surface witli warty protuberances. Each two formed a set in this manner—that each stone offers a small polished surface that corre- sponds most exactly with a similar surface of its mate. The fit was as perfect as between an axle and its box. This circumstance makes it evi- dent that each set of two stones had an independent, well-secured spot in which they were held so fast that only the most insignificant sliding motion between each two was permitted. The ulcer at the neck of the bladder with the larger excavation on its left, and the smaller one on its right side, was undoubtedly the bed for the two sets of stonelets. "Dr. J. Pramann, who had the kindness to make the sections of the stones, gives the weight of them as follows : " Smooth stones, i gr. 177 Rough stones, 6 gr. 29 u 2 » 143 » 6 „ 10 » 3 106 „ 8 „ 6 » 4 » 80 „ 9 „ 5 i» 5 » 22 S28 5° Together, gr. 578. " The section of the stones so far disappointed my expectations that the nuclei did not show anything characteristic which would lead one to suspect that they had immigrated from the intestines. The largest stone contained three nuclei, so that at one time three separate stones must have existed, which by ulterior earthy deposits coalesced in one. The next largest one had its nucleus quite eccentric, and contained a large cavity. Compact and porous layers, in irregular alternations, characterised each stone. Of the rough stones, only the largest ad- mitted of being cut in two. Its structure was exceedingly porous. " The material of all the stones was the same—phosphate of lime and a liberal admixture of carbonate of lime." In connection with the subject of intussusception, a singular case tinder the care of the present compiler is related in the ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xix, 207, where a large tumour formed by-an intussusception of the upper part of the rectum and colon, presonted at the anus, and,