BEFORE ON MEDWIPEEYj ETC. self. She recovered. A substance which at one time seemed to have choked the eyes of the catheter was passed, some blood following. This sub- stance corresponded in size to about the fourth part of the area of the bladder. It had several small holes, most probably artificially pro- duced, but one of which possibly answered to the opening of a ureter. One surface was tolerably smooth, the other surface showed numerous beam-like processes, which penetrated the entire membrane. It con- sisted of fibre and elastic fibres, and many epithelial cells exactly like those of the bladder. 111. THE l'UEItl'EUAL STATE. Changes wrought by Labour. M. Carcassonne has applied an instrument of his construction, de- signed to measure the force of the uterine contractions, to the deter- mination of the evidence of the existence of a cavity in the uterus after delivery. It consists of a canula, having a small bladder attached to the end, which is introduced into the uterus. The end introduced can be made to describe arcs of circles in the uterus without meeting resist- ance ; and again, if water be injected into the bladder, and this is not then equal in size to the capacity of the cavity, then by moving against the uterine walls, one gets the conviction that these are not in juxta- position (' Gaz. Med.,' Oct. 1867). Dr. Duroziez has studied the question of the enlargement of the heart under pregnancy, on 135 women. Taking the normal area of the heart in non-pregnant women to be 9 centim. high and 12 centim. wide, he arrived at the following conclusions : —(1) That the enlargement during pregnancy may be determined. (2) That during the first day after labour the left cavities of the heart diminish, the right remaiuiug en- larged. (3) That at the time of the milk-flow, about the third day, the heart becomes elongated; it remains enlarged during suckling, and diminishes when the woman does not suckle. (4) That in women who have had many children the heart is larger than in those who have only had one or two (' Gaz. d. H&p.,' 1868). The temperature and pulse-relations of lying-in icomen are discussed by Dr. Gruber (Inaug. Diss.. Bern., 1867). The same subject is also investigated by AV. Squire (' Obst. Trans.,' ix). He concludes that no great elevation of temperature arises in natural labour; that there is afterwards a considerable fall, which is favoured by sleep ; that there is a subsequent rise, which has for its natural termination the secretion of milk. Dr. E. Baumfelder made observations (see 'Mon. f. Geb.,' 1867) on 226 lying-in women. His conclusions confirm those of other ob- servers. He makes the remark that the study of slight forms of para- metritis and perimetritis led to the result that pain is preceded for several hours, even for a whole day, by elevation of temperature. Dr. Crede submitted to the Obstetric Section of the Meeting of Physicians, &c, held at Dresden in 1868, the general conclusions drawn from observations on the temperature of lying-in women, conducted for several years. The observations were arranged in groups:—(1)