REPORT ON SURGERY. 326 Dr. Simon remarks on the great difference between such a process of union and that which would be fouud in a lacerated and contused wound of equal extent with which a gunshot wound is usually classed. Surgeons employed in the field had also assured this author that they had noted indubitable cases of primary union of gunshot wounds. Amputation at the hip-joint for gunshot.—In the circular No. 7, issued by the Surgeon-General of the U. S. Army, Washington, 1867] will be found an account of all the previously recorded cases of ampu- tation at the hip-joint for gunshot injury, in number 108, together with 53 cases which had been reported to the surgeon-general as having occurred in the American civil war, and 19 of which were from southern sources. The cases, of which the details are sufficiently known, are divided by the reporter into 4 classes:—(1) Primary, in which 44 cases are included; of these 19 are American cases, and 3 of them recovered. The operations in 2 of the successful cases were performed in the Southern army, and the surgeon-general is doubtful of their ultimate recovery, but this is testified by Dr. Eve, of Nashville, Tenn., in a pamphlet entitled ' Contributions to the History of the Hip-joint Operations performed during the Civil "War,' Philadelphia, 1867. (2) Intermediate, or such as were performed before the inflammatory symptoms consequent on the injury had entirely subsided. In this class 34 cases are reported, 16 previously published, and 18 American cases, all of which died. (3) Secondary, or such as were performed when the inflammatory symptoms had disappeared, and the lesions had become merely local. In this class are contained 10 published cases, 5 of them successful, and 9 American cases, of which 2 recovered ; and finally, the fourth class is formed of reamputations at the hip, of which 8 cases are given; of these all but one are American, and 4 recovered. The total shows 105 tabulated cases, 16 of which recovered; and the reporter adds a slighter reference to 56 other cases, of which he could not obtain sufficient details to tabulate them, and of which 2 recovered. The gross result would be 161 cases, of which 142 were known to have died, 1 was doubtful, and 18 recovered. Dr. Eve's pamphlet also contains a table of 13 resections of the hip for gunshot fracture, 4 of which recovered, and 1 would, it was thought, have recovered but for the privation of nourishment to which the Southern wounded were then and there exposed. Both publications comprise the opinions of various surgeons who had had opportunities of operating during the war. With remarkable unanimity they condemn primary amputation unless in very exceptional cases, aud most of them appear to incline to expectant treatment as a general rule. In the 'Deutsche EHinik,' Jan. 4, 1868, Dr. E. Volckmann relates 7 cases of perforating gunshot wound of the abdomen in which recovery ensued under his own care during the Prusso-Austrian campaign of 1866. In two of these the small intestine was wounded, in the third the stomach, in the fourth the urinary bladder, and in the other three the liver. In all, the reality of the visceral lesion was testified by the escape of the secretion or the contents of the viscus, and in one of the cases of wound of the liver of portions of the hepatic substance.