383 PREGNANCY. The cure of ovarian ci/sts without operation is discussed by Courty (' Rev. de Ther. Med.-Chir.,' 1867). The following are some of the more important memoirs on ovariotomy and ovarian disease: — Boinet, pp. 459, Paris; 0. Spiegelberg, ' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867; Nussbaum, 34 cases, ' Bayer, arztl. Intelliijenzbl.,' 1867; Keith,' Edin. Med. Journ.,' 1867-8, and 'Lancet;' Spencer Wells, 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' and ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1867 ; Koeberle, ' Gaz. des Hopitaux,' and ' Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg,' 1867-8. H. Cooper Eose describes (' Obst. Trans.,' x) a case of disease of botb ovaries; the right ovary communicating with the caecum and exter- nallv, the left tumour emptying into the rectum. Death. Hicks (' Guy's Eeports,' 1868). On so-called foetal inclusion, Hervieux, ' Gaz. des Hopitaux,' 1867 ; Giraldes, 1 Gaz. Medicale,' 1867. Giraldes' case :—A girl, ast. 17, had a congenital ovarian tumour, which took on rapid growth at 7. The pedicle was divided by ecraseur; the patient died on the fourth day; the tumour contained hair, cholesterin, chalk, and fat-glands. Under the title "Foetal Heterotopia, in form of a Dermoid Cyst," another case will be found in ' Bull, de la Soc. Anat.,' 1867. II. PREGNANCY. The Diagnosis of Pregnancy. "W. Lange (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867) discusses the value of the uterine rush, and of the other auscultatory signs. Dr. Charrier (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867) discusses the significance of the umbilical cord souffle. "When heard it indicates compression of the cord, and, consequently, an impeded utero-foetal circulation. The practitioner should be on the alert to deliver. Accidental or natural shortening of the cord may be dia- gnosed in the last stage of labour by an inversion of the fundus of the uterus at the time of each pain, which inversion is reduced sponta- neously after the cessation of the uterine contraction. The proof of thi3 is found in the premature separation of the placenta at its centre, and its rapid expulsion almost immediately after the child. Dr. Copeman discusses (' Obst. Trans.,' x) some of the difficulties encountered in determining the existence of early pregnancy. In five cases, some complication existing, the pregnancy was established by detecting the " placental souffle." Dr. Graily Hewitt believed this could not be relied upon. Dr. Barnes describes ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) a sign of especial value in the detection of early pregnancy. It consists in the backward stretching of the roof of the vagina, caused by the enlargement and anteversion of the uterus, which, carrying the os and cervix backwards, stretches the attachment of the cervix to the bladder at the vaginal mucous membrane covering the connection. He insists upon the corro- borative aid it brings to other signs. Protracted gestation, for case of, see Bigler ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1868). J. H. Bond says (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1868) a bright red ring encircles the umbilicus of child when gestation has been protracted.