PNEUMONIA, ETC. they are of bad omen, as they threaten the occurrence of abscess or of cheesy pneumonia. In the latter case the microscope shows many pale blood-cells, pus-cells, yellow pigmented epithelium-cells, and small masses of yellow pigment. Green sputa may be mixed with rusty or lemon colour ; they do not usually last long, but pass into rusty brown. The sputa may be black in epithelioma and melanotic phthisis; the latter generally occurs in old people, and is attended with continued pyrexia ('Deutsche Klin.,' 22, 23, 25, 1868). Dr. 0. 0. Ileinze writes upon the relation of severe head symptoms to temperature in pneumonia, in reference to the opinion of Lieber- meister that these disturbances of brain function in acute diseases are due to the effect of a high temperature on the nervous centres. Among severe head symptoms Heinze reckons sleeplessness, delirium, halluci- nations, sopor; the slighter symptoms of which Liebermeister speaks are rejected as having no necessary connection with acute disease. Of 317 cases of pneumonia 98 had bad brain symptoms ; in 67 of these the brain disturbances began after the crisis; in the rest they occurred when there was high or moderately high fever, but often lasted into the period of lowered temperature. It might be objected to these observations that it was the long-continued action of a previous high temperature which really produced brain symptoms; if this were the case we should find that brain symptoms occurred earlier in cases of high temperature than in cases of low temperature. The observations of the author contradict this opinion. In the severest forms of inter- mittent, relapsing, and yellow fever, in pleurisy, and other pyrexial diseases, brain symptoms are often wanting, while they may occur in the most trivial cases, and also not rarely in the defervescent stage of typhoid. Heinze mentions the curious fact that of 117 cases of pneu- monia of the upper lobes 47 had severe brain symptoms, while of 200 pneumonias of the lower lobes only 51 had the same complication. It is worth notice that Liebermeister's cases were pneumonias of the upper lobes; that author thinks that this affection is longer, and attended with more severe fever, than other pneumonias, an opinion which Heinze shares. Age seems to have nothing to do with the frequency of delirium, nor is it correct to attribute the tendency universally to alcoholism, for out of 98 cases only 34 occurred in drinkers. The majority of cases of delirium occurred in March and April, and not in hot months ('Archiv d. Heilk.,' p. 49, 1868). Dr. Beckler relates some cases which bear on the connection between pneumonia and tuberculosis. He draws from these cases the following conclusions:—(1) A deposit of miliary tubercle may occur under the form of a pneumonia and general typhoid symptoms. (2) It may also take the form of a simple pneumonia with a true crisis, and may end in cure. (3) Where pneumonia is preceded by general symptoms for a long time, such symptoms tending to appear in tubercular deposition, the latter must be held to be the source of the pneumonia ('Schmidt's Jahrbuch.,' p. 172, 1868). Dr. Waters, writing on pneumonia ('Brit. Med. Jouru.,' Jan. 19, 1867), holds that pure pneumonia consists of an inflammation of the walls of the air-sacs, that the blood-vessels implicated are the branches