70 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 2. We ought to imitate the feeding of health as far as this is con- sistent with the altered state of tilings. We ought not to distress patients by working them to take food. 3. The legitimate use of stimulants is to quicken the digestion and assimilation of food, properly so called; therefore they should be given, if at all, with the food. 4. The doses of stimulant, and the kind of stimulant liquor, must depend upon a variety of considerations connected with the age and Bex of the patient, &c. 5. In most cases of acute diseases in young persons they are not re- quired, or, at any rate, needed in small quantities only. The effect of each dose should be constantly watched ; it is far better to withdraw the stimulant altogether for some hours than to over-stimulate. It is almost certain that the mortality may be seriously increased in young subjects by continuous stimulation, even when no noticeable intoxication is produced. Continued stimulation tends to cause profuse sweating and dry tongue, to prolong tho fever, and to delay the natural crisis. Typhus fever may be taken to be the type of acute diseases in relation to stimulating treatment; and the constant experience of late years has been all in the direction of diminishing the amount of alcoholic stimu- lants. The paper included specific references to the high doses of alco- hol frequently employed by the late Dr. Todd in the treatment of acute disease, and a condemnation of this "routine" system of high stimula- tion in acute diseases. Dr. Anstie, who takes a different view of stimulation, regarding alco- hol mainly as a food, explains certain new tests, chemical and sphygmo- graphic, by means of which the prognosis of acute disease may be rendered more certain, and especially the indication for giving or with- holding alcohol may be rendered clearer. The papers, however ('Lancet,' ii, 1867), belong rather to the department of special therapeutics. Ami/hid Degeneration. Dr. Murchison describes the symptoms of waxy liver; and discusses the causes of this affection. He confirms the opinion already expressed by Frerichs, that in tubercle of the lungs amyloid degeneration of the liver is rarely seen together with fatty degeneration. He supports his state- ment by 52 cases; 33 were males and 19 were women, all affected with tubercle. Fatty degeneration was found in 20, amyloid degeneration in 6; in 3 of these there was not only tubercle but caries. In 8 of the 20 women, along with fatty liver' either the kidneys or the spleen were changed in spots. On the whole, therefore, there were 14 cases of amyloid degeneration out of the whole number ; 11 were women and 3 men. The author records three observations in illustration of clinical history. The first of these was a case of a boy, a?t. 7, dying of suppu- ration of the joints. The liver was very large and waxy. The second case was a syphilitic liver; in the third there was an irregular superficial deposit of waxy spots on the surface of the liver (' Lancet,' i, 1867).