REPORT ON SURGERY. ■Z5-Z more closely into tlie matter; for instance, of the 7 deaths, 4 are reported to have died of consumption, of which disease 1 is stated to have been Buffering at the time of operation, another died of the effects of syphi- litic poison in the system. We can scarcely, therefore, attribute the deaths of these four consumptive patients exclusively to this operation ; consequently, if we make allowance for them, we find the death-rate of average cases 10 instead of 21 per cent., whilst the mortality of amputa- tion of the leg for disease in civil surgery is 26 per cent." Mr. Hancock then describes the various operations by which the ankle may be removed, insists upon the importance of detecting any syphilitic taint in the patient (instancing cases in which such a taint has existed, and some in which it led to the failure of excision), on the great advantage of ensuring a very free exit of matter, and upon the superiority of total over partial excision. He adduces, however, an instance of the success of partial excision in a patient under Mr. J. Wood's care, at King's College Hospital. In the remainder of this lecture Mr. Hancock speaks of compound dislocation of the ankle, the treatment of which he believes to comprise " some of the most brilliant achievements of modern surgery ; indeed, it would almost appear that the more alarming and extensive the lacera- tion, the greater the chance of a cure and the more happy the result." He then goes on to quote numerous cases of successful excision of the ends of the bones of the leg in compound dislocation, and terminates his lecture in these terms : " Notwithstanding the statement by Mr. Syme, reported in the tenth volume of ' Braithwaite's Retrospect,' ' that in the lloyal Infirmary of Edinburgh be finds that of 13 patients who had suffered compound dislocation of the ankle, and were not subjected to amputation, only 2 recovered, and that even in the event of recovery the foot generally remains in such a state of stiffness, weakness, aud sensibility to external impressions, as to render it an incumbrance rather than a support to the patient,'—I say, notwithstanding these adverse comments, the re- Bults here detailed fully prove the value of the proceeding, and seem to me fully to warrant its extension to those complicated cases of fracture and dislocation of the ankle-joint without wounds of the skin, where the difficulty, and in some instances the impossibility, of restoring the parts to their normal position, has been productive of so much suffering and such bad results to the patient, since they show the comparative impunity with which the ankle-joint, complicated as it is, may be laid open so long as the opening is large and direct, and the confinement of discharge and consequent constitutional disturbance carefully guarded against." In his third lecture Mr. Hancock speaks of Syme's amputation, in- stancing at first some cases in which this operation has been necessitated by "progressive caries," or chronic withering of the foot, which commences in an ulcerating corn in the sole of the foot, gradually invading all the metatarsal bones and phalanges." This is apparently the " mal per- forant du pied " of French surgeons. He then speaks of Chopart's operation, and defends the claims of that surgeon (questioned by Velpeau) to the merit of having originated