REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 388 kind of dull, unconscious, slow labour goes on for fifteen or twenty days before true labour can be certainly recognised. The uterus par- ticipates in tbe general adynamia; the sphincter is unable to resist tlie foetal part-which falls upon it; reflex irritation is set up, and feeble contractions are excited. The orifices once sufficiently dilated, expul- sion ensues rapidly, and sometimes without warning. Another feature deserves attention—the separation of the placenta is almost always interrupted, because the contraction of the uterine tissue is slow and imperfect; hence a great disposition to consecutive haemorrhages. "When the uterus is emptied, if no puerperal complication arises, the subsidence of the oedema and then of the circulatory phenomena quickly proceeds. The intestines and kidneys give evident signs of the same hydraulic action. Obstinate serous diarrhoea is the result of the stasis of the arterial and venous circulation of the intestines. Thus also the kidneys—a congestive state is established behind the point of compression of the abdominal circle ; the return of the venous blood is retarded, and this remora necessarily extends to the capillaries and arterial circulation. The quantity of blood supplied to the kidneys is thus lessened, and hence these give a diminished secretion of urine, and a sanguineous plasma is effused from the renal capillaries into the tubuli uriniferi, resulting in albumen in the urine. The author habitually examines the urine of all gravid, cedematous, anasarcous women, and says that in the greater part, if albumen was found in the later months, it quickly disappeared after labour. He affirms that too much weight is attached to albuminuria if it be taken as a certain prognostic of eclamptic fits. He has repeatedly seen albuminuric women go through pregnancy, labour, and childbed, without fits. He has also seen cases in which albuminuria was consecutive upon con- vulsions. In cases of death following this order of phenomena De Cristoforis found abundant fluid, frothy, slightly red, on cut surfaces of lungs; the mucous membrane of the small intestines swollen, soft, covered with colourless viscid mucus. The distress described came on at an earlier period of pregnancy when the uterus was unusually distended, as by twins or hydram- nios. He relates an instructive case in which amaurosis followed upon the condition described. M. M—,aet. 41, became cedematous at the begin- ning of the seventh month, then rapidly anasarcous, and was admitted with pulmonary oedema and dyspnoea. The urine was densely albu- minous. In twelve days the patient complained of weakness of sight, then of nearly complete amaurosis. On reaching the middle of the ninth month, the symptoms all persisting, a dead ascitic foetus, mace- rated, was born. On the seventh day of childbed hydraemia de- stroyed the patient. Autopsy revealed the usual effusions and the characteristic material alterations of albuminuric nephritis ; the left kidney had reached the stage of fatty degeneration. He notices another case of amaurosis, which became chronic. Another consequence of the distension of the uterus is the stretching of the skin, leaving cicatrices and indelible furrows on the abdomen and the