72 ItEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. good local effect in diminishing the tension and heat of the skin, but it exercises a very favorable influence on the circulating and respiratory organs. The respiration becomes slower and more complete, the secre- tions are restored, and the general tone of the system improved. The child is placed in a bath, at a temperature of 38° Cent., and gradually hot water is added till the temperature reaches from 400 to 42" Cent. After from ten to thirty minutes, according to the strength of the child, it is removed from the bath, wrapped in warm clothing, and kept in this state for a couple of hours. It generally falls into a deep sleep. In severe cases two baths a day may be given, and may be kept up till an improvement in the child's health is evident ('Bull. Gen. der Therap.' and 'Practitioner,' Sept. 1868). B. NEEVOTTS DISEASES. Dementia. Dr. W. A. Moore, of Dublin, has had his attention called to a curious connection between dementia and thoracic aneurism, which was illus- trated in no less than three cases of the latter not very common affec- tion which came under his own care. In the first, the patient, a man set. 47, had a slightly pyriform aneurism engaging the posterior portion of the ascending angle and transverse portion of the aortic arch; the heart was fatty, its valves intact. The brain, unfortunately, was not examined. The man had been out of his mind on a previous occasion, and during his treatment by Dr. Moore symptoms of derangement again became apparent, and he was removed to an asylum, where he died. Dr. Moore has no doubt the aneurism interfered with the carotid blood supply, and thinks that reflected nervous irritation may also have played an important part in the psychological phenomena, though there is no absolute post-mortem proof of this. In the second case the pa- tient, a shoemaker, set. 44, suffered from pain at the top of the sternum, cough, and dysphagia, and also from anaesthetic symptoms on the left side of the face, heat of both ears, left ptosis, drooping of the left angle of the mouth, contraction of the left pupil, partial aphonia, herpes of left upper lip and chin and chest and shoulders ; the superficial veins at the upper part of the chest were prominent. A prominent pulsating tumour extended from right sterno-clavicular joint across the sternum for more than inch below the left clavicle. Left radial pulse indistinct; respiration feeble over left lung. After an attack of epistaxis the con- traction of the pupil, the heat of the ears, and the semi-ptosis, nearly disappeared ; the other symptoms remained. About ten months later he was attacked with giddiness and severe headache, the articulation became very imperfect, memory was annihilated, and the mind generally much obscured; there was slight paralysis of the right side of the body and the face ; this quickly became complete. The aneurismal signs re- mained unaltered during the next two months, but the paralysis and mental symptoms gradually disappeared. About twelve months from the accession of the heiniplegic paralysis the patient died, and it was