109 ASTHMA AND OTHER SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS. injected iu the arm, and in five minutes the greatest relief was ex- perienced. The same dose since that time has served to cut short all attacks, although almost every sort of treatment had previously heen tried in vain. Prof. Hirtz has also tried the sulphate of atropine subcutaneously. He finds that in doses of a five hundredth of a gramme it acts more rapidly but less permanently than the above-mentioned quantity of morphia. In chronic cases it may be well to try the two remedies alternately ('Bull. Gen. de Therap.'). A Sufferer communicates a sensible paper on spasmodic astlima to the 'Boston Medical and Surgical Journal' for 1867. He begins by insisting on the value of hygienic measures, and that these are too much neglected by many writers on the subject. He says an asthmatic, by carefulness and attention, combined with an accurate knowledge of the exciting causes of spasm, may live with tolerable comfort to himself, and be able to pursue without much interruption many of the occu- pations of life. The season has a certain influence, rendering men more disposed to attacks at one time than at another. Mere trifles will sometimes counteract every attempt made to benefit the patient. Sleeping in a close bedroom on a feather-bed is with many quite suffi- cient to counteract the most judicious treatment. Diet is important, and the quantity as well as the quality of the food should be noticed. As a rule, no food should be taken after dinner, especially if that be eaten late in the day. One gentleman could never eat a cracker with- out suffering from asthma, although bread had no such influence. Coffee, when strong and hot, and without milk or sugar, is an efficient remedy during an attack. Wine and spirits, especially taken in the evening, are injurious. If a stimulant is necessary, Jamaica rum or whiskey taken during dinner is the best. Brandy is almost always hurtful. A vegetable diet agrees best with some, but this is a matter for individual experience. The clothing should be warm, and should include a complete suit of flannel or silk to guard against sudden at- mospheric changes in a variable climate. Especial care should be taken of the respiration; dust is dangerous, especially house dust, which is more troublesome than street dust; but the most hurtful is that from a feather-bed or a newly swept carpet. This to many is a sure pro- vocative, so is also the dust of hay or straw, or that rising from cleaning horses. Almost every asthmatic has some idiosyncrasy, so that peculiar odours and dusts affect him, while others do not. Ipecacuan powder, as is well known, is a frequent excitant of a paroxysm. A severe fall of temperature is a potent cause for exciting an attack. So, then, in cold weather, especially when it comes on suddenly, the patient should have his mouth and nose covered by a comforter. Night air is equally troublesome to some; here, also, the comforter is efficacious. Curiously enough, riding or driving in an open vehicle gives relief to an asthmatic, even when suffering from an attack. If, therefore, an asthmatic must go abroad in cold weather, let him ride if he can. The arrangements of the bed-chamber are of especial importance ; it should be large, furnished with an open grate, and ventilated at the top. During summer the windows had better remain open, during winter