REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 462 near]}' ten years since—may be advantageously extended to the alka- loids and other analogous active principles, and also to many other volatile and decomposable matters, both animal and vegetable. 2. That, in the case of the alkaloids and analogous active principles, the best form of apparatus is that which consists of a slab of white porcelain, a microscopic cell-glass, and a disc of window-glass. The flame of the spirit-lamp is to be cautiously applied to the porcelain, and the heat gra- dually increased till the sublimate shows itself on the disc of glass, pre- viously deprived of moisture by being passed through the flame. The lamp is to be then withdrawn, and the process repeated till the sub- stance refuses to yield any further sublimate. 3. That in operating on deposits of the alkaloids obtained from their solutions, the deposits should be collected on small fragments of glass, which should be com- pletely enclosed in the cell-glass, so that the deposit may be contained in a short shallow tube, and be deposited on the glass disc without loss. 4. That by this method of procedure highly characteristic results are obtainable with a large number of substances, and notably with the alkaloids and analogous active principles"; these results consisting of visible changes of colour, consistence, and form on the heated white porcelain slab, as well as of characteristic microscopic appearances in the sublimate itself, both before, during, and after the use of reagents. 5. That while the alkaloids, as a class, change colour, melt, fume, and deposit carbon, several of the most important poisonous alkaloids yield sublimates which are either highly characteristic themselves or behave characteristically with reagents, or possess these properties jointly. 6. That the salts of the alkaloids yield sublimates. 7. That, taking strychnia as the type of the alkaloids, it may be inferred that deposits of the alkaloids from their solutions will yield sublimates of character- istic forms and reactions, even when the deposit itself is amorphous and cannot be identified. 8. That strychnia, and probably other alkaloids, will yield sublimates prior to melting or even change of colour ; so that if the process were not carried out to its full extent (i. e. the deposit of carbon), and the microscopic appearances of the sublimate were disre- garded, it would be possible to confound powdered strychnia with arsc- nious acid, corrosive sublimate, or cantharidine. 9. That characteristic results are readily obtained with such small quantities as the one thousandth of a grain or less of strychnia, and that sublimates con- sisting of one five-thousandth, or even as little as one ten-thousandth of a grain, are found to have characteristic properties when examined by the microscope, and to have equally definite reactions. Similarly minute quantities are found to suffice in the case of morphia and of some other alkaloids. 10. That even those sublimates which do not possess the most distinct microscopic characters, but belong to the class which has been designated as " watered" or " smoked," are found to give with reagents highly characteristic appearances. This statement rests mainly on repeated experiments with morphia. 11. That in the choice of reagents care should be taken to avoid such saline solutions as give variable crystalline deposits, and that in any case we should avoid confounding the crystalline forms proper to the reagent (a mis- take committed by Helwig) with those due to its action on the sublimate.