REPORT ON SURGERY. gives a new theory of the " Natural History of Lateral Curvature of the Spine," with suggestions for its treatment. The facts, according to Mr.'.Barwell, for which a complete theory ought to account, are "the ocsurrence of rotation in lateral deviation of the vertebra, the predilec- tion of this condition to girls and young women, and its prevalence on the right side." The received theories do not furnish any such expla- nation. Muscular weakness is not always present, " but the distortion often occurs in very strong, even powerfully built, young women: and such weakness, with weight of the head, &c, would cause posterior, not lateral, deviation, while osseous or cartilaginous disease would not bo constantly affect one and the same side. Mr. Barwell commences by observing on the straightness of the spine and the horizontal position of the pelvis in infancy. The change to the adult form is due, according to him, to muscular force: " When the child begins to walk, a change takes place in all these postures. The thighs must take a new position, and lie in aline parallel with the body's axis. In doing this they drag on all the muscles passing from the anterior part of the os innominatum to the femur, on the iliacus, rectus, pectineus, and others ; the pelvis, yielding to these forces, must necessarily receive a downward, slope, and the sacrum must pro- ject backwards. The psoas, made tense by the same force, draws the loins forward, while the mass of lumbar muscles enforces that bend of the lumbar region necessary to compensate for the pelvic obliquity, and to preserve the body in equilibrio. It seems at first sight well to say that the dorsal bend is produced by the necessity of balance ; but it will on consideration be seen that there must be muscular force to place the passive bones in the position which permits balance. This force is supplied by the abdominal muscles which pass from the pelvis to the walls of the chest, especially the external oblique and the rectus, the ribs acting as levers to transfer the power to the vertebra?. " The flexion backwards of the cervical spine, also necessary for balance, is produced by the tension, employed for keeping the head erect, of those muscles which are attached to the occiput, as well as of those attached to the vertebra? themselves. I must here make an observation on the position of the head in man, and the small size of the ligamentum nuchse, which is especially placed in animals to economise muscular power. Although the weight of the head is in man considerably for- ward, yet very little muscular power is required to keep it upright. The disposition of the upper part of the trapezius muscle, running from occiput to acromion, is such that a small part of the weight of the shoulders is quite sufficient to counterbalance the forward tendency of the head without fatiguing the muscle, since no contraction, further than mere tonic tension, is necessary to permit the weight of the one part to act on the gravity of the other. "Thus the normal antero-posterior bends of the column are su- perinduced, upon the previously straight spine simply by muscular force." In order to determine the influence which such muscular force would exert, Mr. Barwell found it necessary, in the first place, to measure the degree of mobility which various parts of the spine possess naturally.