REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 142 aneurisms and other tumours occupying the root of the neck and upper part of the chest. The difficulty of diagnosing these tumours is considerable; sometimes it is difficult to tell whether the tumour is aneurismal or not, but more frequently to say which vessel is affected. The last is diagnosed by means of position, the condition of the circu- lation, &c. The paper showed some of the exceptions to the normal conditions ; thus, aortic aneurism may ascend into the neck, and so give rise to symptoms similar to innominate or carotid aneurism. Of aneu- rism of the terminal portion of the innominate alone is diagnosis possible. If the thoracic organs are quite healthy, except close by the sterno- clavicular articulation—if a pulsating tumour occupy the space between the sterno-mastoids in the episternal notch—if the tumour in its ascent displace the clavicle and give rise to severe pain in the right shoulder, arm, neck, and head—if the pulsations in the right radial or carotid be comparatively weakened, pressure on one or the other diminishing the impulse in the sac—if a murmur of greater or less intensity be heard over the sterno-clavicular articulation and the sac, diminishing down- wards but passing into the arteries of the neck and the axilla, if per- vious, the murmur being absent on the left side—an aneurism of the terminal portion of the innominate artery may be diagnosed with toler- able certainty. Aneurism of the pulmonary artery, fyc.—Prof. Gilewsky, of Cracow, records in the ' Wien. Med. Wocheuschr.,' xviii, 33—38, an interesting case of pulmonary aneurism. The subject, a man, set. 28, had suffered from acute rheumatism, and soon after from heart disease. "When admitted he was slightly cyanotic; he had right lateral curvature of the spine. The walls of the chest from the third to the sixth rib on the left side heaved with each systole. There were both mitral and tricuspid regur- gitant and mitral obstructive murmurs, whilst there was also pulmonary insufficiency. The liver was greatly enlarged and painful. The urine was albuminous, and in the left side of the scrotum was a varicocele pulsating uniformly with the femoral artery. Sounds indicative of aneurism, aortic or pulmonary, could be heard over the chest. Three months after admission he died of acute bronchitis, the result of the approach of the aneurism to the left broncha. Inside the pericardium the pulmonary artery was much enlarged and sacculated, and its walls thickened. The orifice was enlarged and the valves altogether insufficient. Dr. Eoberts records (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 2,1868) a case of aneu- rism of the ascending aorta communicating with the pulmonary artery. The patient had been ill about a month; he was pale and thin, and the lips were slightly livid, but there was no dropsy or oedema. He had an irrita- tive cough, with occasional attacks of dyspnoea. By and by dropsy set in, and he had to take to bed, when his expectoration became tinged with blood. The prrecordia bulged, and there was extreme cardiac dulne^s ; a loud harsh murmur was heard over the middle of the sternum at the base of the heart, it was loudest at the upper margin, of cardiac dul- ness midway between the median line and left nipplc-line. There was an intense vibratile thrill, but no heaving pulsation. The pulse was