REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 458 almost destitute of taste and smell, insoluble in ether and in the fixed and volatile oils, soluble in alcohol, very soluble in water. The name amanitine is assigned to this substance, which belongs to the class of bodies termed glucosides. The only good precipitant for it is tannin. Amanitine is disseminated through all parts of the plant; it resists prolonged desiccation, cooking, and even the action of powerful chemi- cal reagents. A grain and a half injected beneatli the skin of a frog's back, fifteen grains into a rabbit's flank, or seven and a half grains swal- lowed by a cat or a rabbit, caused commencing torpor in from ten to thirty minutes; and in from half an hour to six hours, according to the dose and the susceptibility of the animal, the senses were blunted, especially the hearing. The pupils were sometimes natural or contracted, rarely dilated. Hemiplegia or paraplegia supervenes, the respiration slackens, and the animal dies after tranquil coma or with slight transitory con- vulsions. On section no signs of local irritation or inflammation are visible, and the heart is slightly gorged with dark blood. When the dose is insufficient to cause death the animal comes out of the state of torpor in five or six hours, and eats without any signs of malaise. The poison does not affect snails, for they feed on mushrooms with impunity. The only antidotes are the administration of oily emetics and pur- gatives, in which amanitine is insoluble ; and tannin, to precipitate the substance itself. Water, in which it is very freely soluble, is to be avoided. Animal and vegetable charcoal are of no avail. No volatile poison was found in the species of mushroom experimented with. Stramonium.—Liegey relates two interesting cases of poisoning by the Datura stramonium * In the one case an adult took an infusion of 10 grm. (154 gr.) of the leaves; and after suffering from symptoms like those produced by belladonna—mydriasis, dysphagia, hallucinations —together with trismus, and redness and burning in the throat—re- covered. In the other case, a child, sat. 2^ years, died in convulsions after partaking of the seeds of the thorn-apple. Here the peculiar redness of the skin and of the throat, the smarting in the latter, the frequency of the pulse, and the elevated temperature, caused the case to be mis- taken for one of scarlatina. Dr. ~W\ Ogle has investigated the vexed question of the comparative immunity of rabbits to the poisonous action of atropiue,f and arrives at the following conclusions :—1. That a rabbit of middle age can live for, at any rate, six days exclusively on belladonna without inconvenience, a. That a rabbit can tolerate enormous doses of atropine, administered either by the stomach or by subcutaneous injection, and that this toler- ance is not due to non-absorption of the poison. 3. That this toler- ance increases with the age of the rabbit. 4. That dilatation of the pupils is, however, produced just as readily, if not more so, in an old rabbit than in a young one. These conclusions are in accordance with the experiments of Dr. * Virchow and Hirsch's ' Jahresber,' 1867, i, p. 474. t 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' i, 1867, p< 466.