ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OP THE EYE. 339 been edited by tbe secretaries, Drs. Giraud-Teulon and Wecker. A report on tbe eve hospital of the "Vienna University* has been edited, under the supervision of Arlt, by Drs. Tetzer, L. Eydel, and Otto Becker. In England we have to regret the discontinuance of the ' Ophthalmic Review.' The 1 Ophthalmic Hospital Eeports' have been issued at irregular intervals. The foreign periodicals devoted to ophthal- mology are still in full activity ;f and a large number of contributions upon ophthalmic matters have appeared in general medical journals. A great variety of smaller books and pamphlets has been published, and many of these will be mentioned under the subjects of which they treat. («■) Anatomy and Physiology. The minute anatomy of the component parts of the eyeball has engaged the attention of many observers, whose writings will be enume- rated at the end of this report, but whose results need not be here set forth. Among the contributions to ophthalmic physiology there are some that it is necessary to mention. M. MilliotJ has presented to the Academie des Sciences a paper detailing the results of his numerous experiments on animals with regard to the regeneration of the lens after extraction. His experiments were performed upon rams, dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea-pigs, rats, and fross. He made a corneal incision, either superior, inferior, or external, divided the anterior capsule, and pressed out the lens. After the opera- tion the eyelids were united by suture, and sometimes the ears of the animal were secured in the same manner to the skin over the margin of the orbit. The general result was that the crystalline lens was frequently reproduced, although not quite of its natural size. The reproduction always occurred within the cavity of the capsule, and the tubes of the lens presented the same phases of development as in the embryo. Reproduction was impeded by extensive injury to the capsule, and was stopped by general inflammation of the eyeball, but was rather promoted by iritis or cyclitis. The anterior capsule, with, perhaps, the most peripheral part of the posterior capsule, were alone concerned in the regeneration. The process commenced at about the end of the second week after extraction, and was completed in from five to twelve months, except in old animals, in which it was still more tardy. The presence of cortex left behind in the extraction appeared to have no favorable influence. "When the posterior capsule was lacerated in the operation, so as to permit the protrusion of a bead of vitreous, only a ring of new lenticular tissue was formed around this bead (the Cristall- tculxt of "VV. Sommering). M. Milliot purposes to continue his researches, and to extend them to the human subject, and will publish his results in the ' Journal de lAnatomie et de la Physiologie.' Dr. Steffan§ concludes, both from anatomical research and from clinical * ' Bericht fiber die Augenklinik der Wiener Universitiit,5 1863-6;;, Braiimiiller, 1867. t 'Archiv fur Ophthalmologic;' 'Klinische Monatshliitter fur Aogenheilkttnde;' 'Annates d'Oculistique f ' Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano f ' Ncdcrlandsch Vers- lagen.' % 'Annates d'Oculistique,'1867. § Ibid.