REPORT ON MIDWIFEUY, ETC. JO I The indication for turning in narrow pelvis occurs when it is possible to bring the smaller anterior diameter of the head into relation to the narrowed conjugate, and the occiput into the larger half of the pelvis ; and when this more favorable position of the head cannot be effected by placing the woman in a fitting position. He then asks, can the head be so placed by turning ? In consequence of the known law that in incomplete foot presentation the foot that is drawn down always comes under the pubic arch if the foetus is not abnormally small or the pelvis too large, in drawing down the right foot the child's back and also its occiput will come into the right half of the uterus, and vice versa (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867). Dr. Shassmann ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1868) discusses turning in narrow pelvis. He says it may be successful although the bi-parietal or greatest diameter of the child's head be caught in the narrowed con- jugate. Shassmann insists much upon the importance of aiding extrac- tion of the head by pressing upon the head through the abdominal walls. Dr. Scharlau (loc. cit.) gives a summary of 64 cases in which he turned; 50 of the children were alive before the operation; of these 43 were delivered alive ; 5 mothers died, 2 of metro-phlebitis, 1 of peri- tonitis, 2 of ruptured uterus. In 12 cases there was narrowed pelvis. He shows 4 cases in which the head was caught near the bi-parietal diameter. He thinks the operation may give good results with a con- jugate reduced to 3 in. Dr. Gosselin describes ('"Wien. Med. Presse,' 1867) a peculiar method of extracting the head in breech labours. Under the title "Forceps or Turning," Th. Korner discusses ('Deutsch. Klinik,' 1867) the same question, with illustrative cases; also by H. Schwarzchild (Memoir, Frankfurt, 1867), who approves of turning. The subject is also discussed and illustrated in Dr. Barnes' lectures ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1868). Ceplialotripsy. This operation has obtained a firm footing in England within the last few years. At the British Association meeting held in Dublin, 1867 ('British Med. Journ.,' 1867-8), Dr. G. Kidd, Sir J. Simpson, Dr. Braxton Hicks, and Dr. Ringland exhibited cephalotribes. Dr. Kidd's instrument is straight, Dr. Hicks' is a modification of Sir J. Simpson's, having a moderate pelvic curve, short handles, working by a screw, the English forceps-lock. Dr. M. Duncan (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1868) prefers the French model, and has modified this, producing some im- provements, but retaining the essential features of Baudelocque's instrument. He contends that the short-handled English models are unable to crush in the base of the foetal skull. Prof. Chiara, of Turin (1867), describes a case in which the repeated crushings alternating with intervals for moulding were practised. The shoulders resisting, a strong cord was passed round neck, and attached to Joulin's appareil a traction. By this means in a few minutes the body was delivered. The woman did well.