273 TREPHINING THE SKULL. dura mater, since cases enough are on record, and two have been recently observed by himself, in which the dura mater has been exposed in injuries of the skull, without any meningitis following. The same is also observed in experiments on animals. Assuming, then, that the meningitis in those 5 cases was not caused merely by the exposure of the dura mater, he proceeds to some experiments as to the effect of foreign bodies lodging in the brain. In the first place, with respect to the consequences of a foreign body lodging in the brain without ex- posure of the cranial cavity, he gives 4 experiments on animals by driving nails through the skull into the brain, and 2 cases in the human subject of simple fracture with depression. In the animals no meningitis was produced. In one of the cases of fracture the patient lived thirty-five years, and then died from causes unconnected with the fracture, w hich had never set up inflammation. In the other case the patient died, but from haemorrhage, causing pressure, not from fracture. Hence he believes that if the cranial cavity be not exposed, the foreign body will probably cause no primary meningitis. When foreign bodies pass through the dura mater and wound the brain, the cranial cavity being open, they may be either movable or fixed. Experiments on animals show that in the former case meningitis is at once set up, in the latter the inflammation moves on more slowly, but equally regularly. The author attributes the more rapid access of inflammation in the former case to the movement communicated to the foreign body by the motions of the brain, and says that when they are increased by coughing, pe., the patient is in still more danger, as also those who are of lively temperament, who speak and laugh much, those who have to make strong efforts to pass fasces or urine, &c. The experiments also show that if the opening of the dura mater is large, so that the movements of the brain are considerable, and if the foreign body is large and rough, and situated near the centre of the opening, the inflammation is more rapid and acute. In cases where the meningitis proves fatal, and Bpreads to both sides, there is never the least difficulty in showing by post-mortem examination that it takes its departure from the lodgment of the foreign body. From these data the author concludes that when foreign bodies are known to have lodged in the brain, or when there is any reasonable probability that they have done so (the cranial cavity being open), an exploratory operation should be undertaken at the earliest moment possible, and the foreign body carefully removed, and the cranial cavity closed. On this head experiments are also adduced, showing the benefits of early removal of the foreign substance. The second publication is one by Wysler, of Aaran (ibid., p. 768), in which two successful cases of trephining are published, but which is also intended to prove the benefit of the energetic use of mercury in injuries of the head, by inunction of mercurial ointment in various parts ot the body, so as to get the whole system quickly under its influence. It is to be remarked that in neither case was the trephining undertaken immediately after the accident; in one case on the following day, in the other not till four day8 after. Mercurial inunction was freely used in both. J The last contribution is a very interesting and rare case of successful 18