SKIN DISEASES. 189 (7) That the vitality of inflammatory products may ho destroyed hy various forms of escharotics and caustics, aud that it may he greatly modified by other means which stop short of destruction of tissue. (S) That mercury, iodine, and arsenic, possess marvellous powers in modifying the vital properties and tendencies of inflammatory products. (9) That mercury is efficacious against almost all forms of the inflam- matory process, provided it be used in doses sufficiently reduced not to disturb the patient's health. (10) That mercury is efficient in procuring the resolution of inflam- mation, whether applied locally or introduced into the blood, and then, when circumstances allow, its local use is much safer, and permits of a cure being accomplished with a much smaller quantity. (11) That mercury possesses special efficacy against the forms of inflammation which occur in consequence of syphilis, especially those met within two years of the contagion (secondary). (12) That the salts of iodine possess special efficiency against sy- philitic inflammations, especially those which occur many years after contagion (tertiary). (13) That a large number of skin diseases are local from beginning to end, and are to be influenced only by local treatment—the three forms of tinea, scabies, molluscum contagiosum, porrigo, prurigo pedi- cularis, many forms of eczema, &c. (14) That many other skin diseases are local in origin, but affect the constitution afterwards, and require for cure both local and general treatment—erysipelas, many forms of eczema, many forms of prurigo. (15) That some skin diseases of constitutional origin are yet chiefly susceptible of treatment by local remedies—lupus, carbuncles, boils. (16) That there is really some peculiar state of health which we cannot yet define, which renders its subject liable to general eruptions of different forms, which are always symmetrical, always liable to relapse, usually met with in the young, and always more or less defi- nitely under the influence of arsenic. To this state of health the French have given the name of dartrous diathesis. It accounts for common psoriasis, many forms of eczema, lichen, and pityriasis, com- mon pemphigus, and many forms of lupus. (17) That the "dartrous diathesis" may be complicated by others, as, for instance, by the presence of a syphilitic taint. (18) That nearly all inflammations occurring in the lower extremities are much influenced by hydraulic conditions, which must be always kept in view in the treatment. Dr. Clifford Allbutt ('St. George's Hospital Eeports,' vol.ii),writing on the value of skin affections in the classification of skin diseases, starts off with the following propositions: (1) That classification in the study of disease is not a technical system, but is the expression and the organ of our progress iu investi- gation ; to classify being to formulate the phenomena of natural evolu- tion as wc perceive them. (2) That life, as it falls under the eye of the physician, consists in a