UEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 6 DIGESTION. The researches of Heidenhain * on the saliva present many points of interest; they were chiefly made on the dog, hut included also the rahhit aad the sheep. He endeavours to show that in the salivary glands of most animals two kinds of cells exist, one of which is clear and transparent, is unstained by carmine, and appears to contain mucus in its interior, whilst the other is granular in aspect, contains material rich in albumi- nous compounds, and readily becomes tinted with carmine. The former may be termed mucus-cells, the latter albuminous cells. In the rabbi the structure of the submaxillary salivary glands i3 very simple. The cells in the alveoli are all of the albuminous type, being soft, ill-defined, and darkly granular, possessing a nucleus which becomes strongly coloured with the carmine solution. In the dog and cat, on the contrary, the submaxillary gland is essentially a mucus-gland, the cells in the interior of the villi being large and transparent, and developing continuously, so that, as successive series break down to form the mucus, their place is supplied by others. Near the periphery of the alveoli a few albuminous cells are to be found. The submaxillary gland of the sheep presents the two cell forms in its acini, but the granular albuminous cells are relatively far the most numerous. The corresponding gland in man agrees with that of the dog and cat in structure, and is therefore essentially a mucus-gland. Heidenhain found that the nature of the saliva discharged on irritation of the chorda tympani corresponded to the variations in the structure of the cells observed in the glands. Thus, in the rabbit the chorda tympani saliva was thin and watery, decidedly alkaline, free from mucin, and con- taining a solid residue, amounting to i'2^g per cent. In the case oi the dog it contained mucin, with a very small proportion of albuminous compounds. In the sheep the amount of proteids was more considerable than in the dog, whilst the proportion of mucin was very variable. In the dog the per-centage proportion of solid constituents diminished with the duration and rose with the strength of the stimulus by which the nerve was excited; and he found that mucin formed the greater part of the salivary solids. The saliva discharged on irritation of the sympa- thetic is less watery than that obtained by excitation of the chorda tympani. Heidenhain considers he has positively shown that by excita- tion of certain nerves processes and metamorphoses may be induced which occasion cell formation. Eckhard f finds that the salivary glands are not under the in- fluence of the same nerves in different animals; and in the sheep the parotid gland does not appear to be under the control of any cerebro- spinal nerve, since its secretion is poured forth uninterruptedly, and is not augmented by irritation of the fifth, the portio dura of the seventh, nor of the sympathetic, in this respect differing remarkably from that of the horse. A different conclusion has been arrived at by G. Bidder,^ who has observed that in the sheep irritation of the upper part * "Essays on the Saliva," in the 'Studien des Physiol. Instituts zu Breslau,' 1868 p. 1. f ' Henle und Pfeuffer's Zeits.,' xxix, 1867, p. 74. j 'Reichert's Archiv,' 1867, No. 6.