REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 38 following conclusions, the importance of which, if they are confirmed by further observation, cannot be doubted. (1) The characteristic product of tuberculosis is not an aggregation of shrivelled particles of irregular form, but a tissue formed of lymph- corpuscles held together by a network of hyaline connective substance. (2) There is a close structural analogy between this tissue and that of certain follicular organs belonging to the lymphatic system, e.g. the follicles of Peyer, the similar structures recently discovered in the con- junctiva and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the am- pulla? of the lymphatic glands. (3) All the favorite seats of tubercle, whether in the massive organs or in the serous or mucous membranes, are characterised by the presence of similar tissue, which, from the analogy stated above, might properly be called adenoid. Notwithstanding that this adjective has already been introduced into pathological nomenclature in another and entirely different sense, Dr. Sanderson prefers it to any other. (4) The distribution of adenoid tissue in the body is in intimate relation with the arrangement of the lymphatic system. The author has for the first time shown that in the great serous membranes (which v. Eecklinghausen's discoveries have taught us to regard as lymphatic reservoirs) it forms sheaths around the blood-vessels or masses of micro- scopical dimensions and irregular contour underneath the epithelium. In the viscera it is distributed here and there in the course of the lymphatic channels. (5) In the peritoneum tuberculosis consists in the enlargement or overgrowth of these sheaths or masses of adenoid tissue, and conse- quently the tuberculous nodules which are formed have the same intimate structure and stand in the same anatomical relation to the vessels and the epithelium. In the organs the essential lesions also consist in overgrowth of pre-existing masses of adenoid tissue. (6) The primary local lesion in artificial tuberculosis, whether it originates traumatically or by inoculation, consists in the development at the seat of injury of granulations or nodules, Avhich have the similar structural characters with those of adenoid tissue elsewhere, but cannot as yet be shown to be in relation with the absorbent vessels. (7) The first step in the dissemination of the tuberculous virus consists in its being absorbed primarily by the lymphatics (by which it is conveyed to the lymphatic gland, of which they are tributaries), and secondarily by the veins. Having thus entered the systemic circulation, it is conveyed by the arteries to the serous membranes, by means of which it is distributed to the various organs contained in the serous cavities. (8) In these organs those parts which are in relation with their serous coverings are first affected. From these the infection is conveyed by the lymphatics, exciting the adenoid tissue in its course, and thus giving rise to tuberculous new growths. The final stage of the process consists in the tertiary infection of the lymphatic glands of eacli diseased organ, which consequently undergo enlargement, induration, and eventually become caseous. This enlargement is due to multiplication of cells in all the tissues of