KIDNEYS. — URINE. 29 gration (r lactic acid), formed at any given part, acting upon the part in its immediate neighbourhood. This effect is so much the greater the more of the product of disiutegration the accelerated spot contains at the moment of excitation; it is thus greater in those spots in which dis- integration occurs more rapidly when the nerve is at rest, and may be diminished if the rapidity of disintegration during rest is much retarded (as in the case of strongly anelectrotonized parts). KIDNEYS.—TJEINE. Xo important researches have been undertaken in reference to the structure of the kidneys since the date of the last report, but several interesting series of experiments have been made upon the urine. Amongst these the investigations of Dr. Parkes * on the elimination of nitrogen by the kidneys during rest and exercise, first on a diet without nitrogen, and afterwards on a regulated diet of nitrogen, stand pre- eminent. The experiments were made on soldiers doing duty at Netley. Two were employed on each occasion. In both instances the experi- ment was conducted in a similar manner. In the first experiment the men were first kept under observation for 6 days, to determine the mean daily amount of food, excreta, &c. They were then placed for 2 flays on a non-nitrogenous diet of arrowroot, sugar, and butter, and were kept at perfect rest. They then resumed for 4 days their former regulated diet and usual occupations, and at the expiration of that period were again placed on the non-nitrogenous diet, but were made to take severe exercise for 2 days, on the first day walking 2376 miles, and on the second 3278 miles. The work done by one man was = 140,839 kilogramme-metres, or 453'6 tons lifted one foot; and by the other man the work done was 107,655 kilogramme-metres, or 34674 tons lifted a foot. Lastly, the men were again placed on their regulated diet, and took their ordinary exercise for 4 days. As a general result of these experiments, it appeared that the conclusion of MM. Pick and Wislicenus, mentioned in the last report, is fairly corro- borated, that on a non-nitrogenous diet exercise produces no notable increase in the urea of the urine, although when the whole period during and afcer the exercise is considered there is a slight increase. But although it may be considered to be proved that severe work may be performed on non-nitrogenous diet for a short time, it by no means follows that nitrogen is unnecessary. For a short period the well-fed body possesses sufficient nitrogen to permit muscular exertion to go on for some time without fresh supply. But if work is to be done, there can be no doubt that nitrogen must be supplied, and supplied in pro- portion to the amount of work. The second series of experiments so far differed from the first that the men were kept on the same diet for 16 days. For 4 days they were at their ordinary employment; during 2 days rested; returned to ordinary work for 4 days; took very active exercise for 2 days, and were then for 4 days more on ordinary occupation. Their food consisted of 16 oz. of bread, containing 61 grs. of nitrogen; 15 oz. raw, equal to * ' Proceed, of the Roy. Soc.,' 1567.