5 BLOOD. t Humphry and Turner's ' Journal of Anatomy,' i, p. 339. refraction through a prism, is transmitted through a thin layer of blood or of solution of haemoglobin, or of haematin, which may be either oxidized or deoxidized. Under these circumstances, when the spectrum is received on a white screen, certain dark striae or absorption bands make their appearance, differing, in accordance with the chemical changes of the blood, in position or in breadth or in number, and furnishing an accurate means of determining the conditions present. A very excellent course of lectures on this subject was delivered by Prof. Roscoe at Apothecaries' Hall in the course of the summer of 1868. Gamgee * has shown that the addition of any of the nitrites to blood renders it of a chocolate colour, modifies the absorption bands in a remarkable manner, and dimi- nishes the absorption power of the colouring matter of the blood for oxvgen, whilst it fixes that which is already present. Gamgeef has also shown that when blood is placed in contact with carbonic oxide gas, as by transmitting the gas through blood, or by causing a living animal to inhale it for some time, a portion of the oxygen of the colouring matter is expelled and replaced by carbonic oxide; a definite compound is thus formed, the physical characters of which are identical, or nearly so, with those of normal blood-colouring matter, but which differs from the latter in being incapable of yielding a less oxygenized substance when treated with reducing agents. Extensive use of the spectrum mode of analysis has been made by Dr. Thudichum for discovery and identification of various substances in the solids and fluids of the body in health and disease, of which a full descrip- tion will be found in the ' Tenth Eeport of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1868.' The sections on the colouring matter of the bile, on the colouring matter of the urine, and on alcohol in relation to the chemistry of the human body, are especially important. In the course of his observations on the last-mentioned subject he states that there are two forms of sugar;—starch sugar, which turns the plane of polarization to the right; and grape or fruit sugar, which turns it to the left. The former is termed dextrose, the latter levulose, or "invert" sugar, because it reverts the polarization of the dextrose. Invert sugar can be instanta- neously produced from common white cane sugar by admixture with very dry German yeast. The fluid instantly becomes syrupy, and will now precipitate oxide of copper when added to Feyling's solution. The rapidity of this action Dr. Thudichum considers as opposed to the assumption that the action of yeast in producing fermentation is due to organic life action; and a still further argument is derived from the fact that a watery extract of the yeast will have the same effect. Never- theless, for the conversion of sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid, the yeast-cell is requisite. Diabetic sugar is dextrose. In regard to the question whether alcohol is consumed in the body, in an important experiment made by himself, and in others made in con- junction with Dr. Dupre, of the Westminster Hospital, Dr. Thudichum has shown clearly that less than 1 per cent, of alcohol, even when taken in large quantities, is eliminated by the kidneys. * 'Phil. Trans.,' 1868.