ItEPOIlT ON SU11GERY. 210 In Case 24 a man, act. 38, much exhausted by repeated hemorrhage from a cancerous tumour, had amputation performed below the knee. "Twenty-four hours after operation I relieved the anterior tibial artery from acupressure, and it instantly bled as energetically as if it had been that moment cut across. Acupressure pins and loops were in the ward, the house-surgeon and some of the surgical pupils of the hospital were with me at the time, and I immediately got the femoral artery compressed, opened the wound, and acupressed the artery again by the fourth method. The blood lost did not exceed a dessert- spoonful, and the whole proceeding did not occupy more than three or four minutes. This is the only instance in which I have ever seen any haemorrhage from an artery on its being freed from acupressure, and I attributed its occurrence in this case to the extreme exhaustion of the patient being unfavorable for adhesion." The man died of exhaustion twenty days after operation, and thus another opportunity occurred of seeing the state of the vessels after acu- pressure. They were all small and empty, and the coats contracted and thickened, especially in the terminal three quarters of an inch or so of each. The anterior tibial was larger than the posterior, even before the latter had given off the peroneal. They were all detached from their sheaths with unusual facility, and the adhesions of the cut extremities to the surrounding tissues were very slight. The posterior tibial and peroneal were only closed by a slight exudation of lymph, which had united to- gether the divided extremities in each case; and in the posterior tibial this lymph was so soft as to give way upon very gentle pressure. The anterior tibial was closed by a well-formed, firm, doubly conical plug of decolorised fibrin about three eighths of an inch long, which was adherent to the walls of the vessel throughout its distal third. The veins accompanying the arteries were natural in appearance, but the blood which they contained appeared to be semi-disorganized. Prof. Pirrie concludes from his experience that, in ordinary cases, acupressure is superior to deligation, for the following reasons ;—1. It is the easiest and the quickest method yet devised for arresting bleed- ing. 2. It shortens the time necessary for arresting haemorrhage, in- volves less handling of the parts, and therefore diminishes the risk of suppuration or the higher grades of inflammation. 3. It does not offer any obstacle, as the ligature does, to the occurrence of primary union. On this head Prof. Pirrie says, " I have seen, in my own experience and in that of my colleagues, many examples of wounds after capital opera- tions, where acupressure was used, where healing was effected in some by immediate union, and in others by primary adhesion, without a single drop of pus." This is, of course, impossible with the ligature. 4. He believes that pyaemia will be found less common after acupres- sure ; up to the date of publication not a single case of pyaemia had taken place after acupressure in the Aberdeen Hospital. 5. The briefer sojourn of the foreign body in the wound, its non-absorbent properties, the absence of division or strangulation of the coats of the vessels; and, 6, the comfort to the patient of knowing that all foreign matters are withdrawn from the wound, and no more inter- ference with it will be necessary, are also dwelt upon as points of supe-