LITIIOTRITY AND LITHOTOMY. inflammation of the bladder and prostate, or to a fragment which escapes the sound. Sir H. Thompson says— " One hint respecting a plan which I have found useful in this state of doubt is the following :—Supposing that, after one or two careful ex- plorations with the sound and with the small short-beaked lithotrite, the blades of which are easily reversed, and which can thus be made to traverse easily the floor of the bladder, nothing is found, I prefer to give up all interference, and let the patient have a week or two's free- dom from instruments; but during that time he should on two or three occasions take a rough drive in an omnibus or other jolting vehicle. I know nothing which will so certainly increase the irritation if it is due to a fragment, while the effect will probably be very slight if none is present." In support of his third proposition, he appeals to the fact that in the time occupied by this series of 100 cases he has never declined one. He thinks it would have been more worldly-wise to have refused one case (a fatal one), in which he performed lithotrity, and five or six of those in which lithotomy was performed; but he considers it a derelic- tion of duty to refuse such patients the slight prospect of relief which the operation gives them. In speaking of his fourth proposition, Sir H. Thompson uses these* words: " It may seem a bold assertion, that every case of stone in the adult may be treated by lithotrity. Depend upon it this will be the case, and that its realisation is simply a question of time. I suppose no one will deny that it is an easy thing to diagnose the presence of calculus in an early stage, while it is yet small, and easily amenable to the crushing process. Very rarely does a calculus reach the size of a bean without giving marked symptoms of its presence—enough to send the patient to his surgeon—enough for his surgeon to suspect its existence. At all events, with anything like ordinary intelligence on the part of the patient and on that of his attendant, no stone should reach the weight of 100 grains, or measure an inch in its longest diameter—in other words, arrive at the size of a filbert, without discovery. " Xow, by way of proof, I wish to call your attention to the striking fact that among the eighty-four cases of lithotrity all such stones were successful cases. Each one of the fatal cases were stones of much larger eize, occurring in patients worn out not merely by age, but by the long existence of the calculus and its fearful consequences. I am entitled, therefore, to say that every calculus, being discoverable with proper ■vigilance while it is still small, it is removable by proper means, with an almost certain prospect of success. I regard the operation of lithotomy, then, attractive as it is to the practical surgeon by its bril- liancy, and by the qualities which it demands for its successful perf'orm- . ance, as destined ere long to be unknown, or nearly so, in the cases of the adult." In the 'Deutsche Klinik,' 1867, pp. 22, 299, will be found two in- I teresting cases of combined lithotomy and lithotrity, under the care of Dr. Simon. The former case was remarkable in consequence of the