61 TYPHOID FEVER. under the iodine treatment from the ninth to the twelfth day, in the later days its fall did not seem to be influenced by the treatment. The return of normal pulse and temperature seemed not to be altered by the iodine. The favorable influence of iodine upon severe brain symptoms was not observed by Zorn. On the whole, he concluded that the apparent good effects of iodine in typhus had really been only accidental coincidences ('Petersb. Ztschr.,' xii, $, 1867). Typhoid Fever. As regards the* essential nature of the causes which produce this t'ever, nothing has been observed during 1867-8 which could disturb the belief, already so firmly established, that its generation and propa- gation is essentially dependent upon sewage contamination of air and of 'drinking-water. At least, Dr. Kennedy's writings, to be mentioned presently, are the only important exception. On the contrary, various striking detailed confirmations of this pathological theory have been afforded by the history of local outbreaks in this country, which will, of course, be referred to under the section of hygiene. Dr. George Johnson ha3 contributed the most novel communication, at any rate, upon the clinical aspects of typhoid. In a clinical lecture (' British Medical Journal,' March 16, 1867) he discusses what he calls the two opposite principles on which the diarrhoea which is so charac- teristic of this disease has been regarded and treated during the last quarter of a century. The practice under Dr. Todd was to give repeated doses of opiates and powerful astringents to check the diarrhoea; and this plan, according to Johnson, did not yield favorable results. He says that, so far from opiates tending to heal the intestinal ulcers which are the source of the diarrhoea, they only check the con- tractile movements of the intestines which are necessary to carry off the morbid secretions which the diseased surfaces pour out, and thus lead to accumulation of fluids, which decompose and give off offensive gases, which in their turn are injurious. He describes cases in which the persistent use of opiates and astringents had failed entirely to check the diarrhoea, which ceased at once on the mere discontinuance of these medicines. As a general rule, he recommends the giving of very little medicine of any kind in typhoid, the sparing use of stimulants (which, as a rule, are not to be given at all in the early stages), feeding with milk, beef-tea, arrowroot, and eggs. And he maintains that where there is much distension of the bowels by air and liquid it is best to give a laxative enema, or else (and this, he says, is usually better) a dose of castor oil, with a few drops of laudanum, in some aromatic water. This gets rid of irritant matters, and Johnson maintains that in this way the intestine really gets a better chance of the physiological rest which is so necessary to its recovery. He enumerates other sources of irritation about which there is no dispute. It is his disinclination to use active means of checking evacuation, however mild, which we speak of here as a novelty, or, at any rate, as in direct opposition to the practice of those English physicians who are most experienced in the practical manage- ment of typhoid. And although few such physicians now employ opium