REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. may report, after inspection, to the local authority that any premises are in a condition dangerous to health ; whereupon, on the report of a surveyor or engineer, the local authority may require works to he executed hy the owner of the property, or may even demolish the pre- mises. Many haunts of infectious diseases will, doubtless, be swept away under this statute. The " Workshop Kegulation Act, 1867," only came into full force at the commencement of the current year. This merciful enactment, which is au extension of the Factory Act to workshops employing less than fifty hands, contains the following provisions :—(1) No child under the age of eight years shall be employed in any handicraft; (2) no child under 13 years of age shall be employed in any handicraft for more than 64-hours daily, the work to be between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m.; (3) no woman, and no person between the ages of 13 and 18 years, shall be employed for more than 12 hours daily: these hours must be between 5 a.m., and 9 p.m., i| hour being allowed out of this for meals; (4) no woman and no person under the age of 18 years is permitted to work in any handicraft on Sunday or after 2 p.m. on Saturday; except on Saturdays when not more than 5 persons are employed in the work shop; (5) no child under the age of 11 years shall be employed in grinding in the metal trades, or in fustian cutting. Certain provisions are made for the education of children employed in workshops; and the use of a fan to prevent inhalation of dust may be insisted upon. Already the west-end milliners are reaping the benefit of this Act. "The Metropolitan Poor Act, 1867," makes most important provi- sions for the building asylums for the insane, and providing in- and out-door medical relief to the sick pauper. Already great good has re- sulted from its enforcement, though it is to be regretted that want of economy in its administration has provoked opposition among the rate- payers. "The Pharmacy Act, 1868," provides for the registration and regu- lation of chemists'and druggists, and persons keeping open shop for the retailing, dispensing, or compounding of poisons. All persons selling or compounding poisons, or assuming the title of chemist and druggist, are to be qualified and registered by the Pharmaceutical Society. " Poisons" are divided into two classes:—(1) Arsenic and its prepara- tions ; prussic acid; cyanides of potassium and all metallic cyanides; strychnine and all poisonous vegetable alkaloids and their salts ; aconite and its preparations ; emetic tartar; corrosive sublimate; cantharides ; savin and its oil; ergot of rye and its preparations. (2) Oxalic acid; chloroform ; belladonna and its preparations ; essential oil of almonds, unless deprived of its prussic acid ; opium, and all preparations of opium or of poppies. The Council of the Pharmaceutical Society has power to add to their list. No poison is allowed to be sold unless the vessel in which it is contained be distinctly labelled with the name of the article and the word poison; and no poison in the first class may be sold except under certain stringent formalities. "We trust that this enactment may tend to diminish the lamentable number of cases of accidental and suicidal death from poison in this country. The Act does not extend to Ireland.