255 EXCISION OF THE OS CALC1S. In the fourth lecture Mr. Hancock treats of excision of the os calcis. He endeavours), in the first place, to discover the indications for the operation in cases of disease of the foot, and after citing the opinions of various surgeons for and against excision in caries apparently limited to the calcaneum or astragalus, as the case may be, he expresses his own opinion in the following terms : " I should pause long ere I amputated through the ankle for disease of the astragalus or calcis seemingly confined to those bones, unless there were other cogent reasons to urge me to do so independent of those manifested in the bone itself. And I cannot help thinking that in these and similar cases it is better to be guided by the history, collateral circumstances, and symptoms combined, than to rely implicitly on symptoms and abstract principles alone, however judicious those abstract principles may seem to be. Take, for instance, a very ordinary example. A man sprains his ankle. He pays no attention to it at first, but continues his work. In due course of time, after inflammation, suppuration, the formation of sinus, &c, we discover by the probe that the astralagus is in a state of caries. The disease appears to be restricted to this bone. The disease is the only sign of struma manifested by the patient either in his own person or in his family history. Are we to throw the original cause of the mis- chief, the general appearance of the patient, and the family history aside; and be governed only by the existence of caries, and the possi- bility that caries may be latent in other bones, and at once perform amputation without giving the patient a chance by the excision of the one bone of preserving the use of his foot ? I can understand that some may consider it justifiable to at once have recourse to amputation where the mischief has originated spontaneously without any assignable cause, when the constitutional taint of scrofula is generally apparent); but I am not ready to admit that caries per se is a sufficient justifica- tion for the undue sacrifice of a limb, even when occurring in a so- called scrofulous individual, especially if the exciting cause can be traced to injury, or that it is of itself a sufficient justification for ab- staining from excision of the individual bone." In order to ascertain the real results of this operation, Mr. Hancock give3 short notes of 18 operations performed by himself and other Burgeons, of which the following is a summary: "In 14 of these 18 cases the patients are especially described as being scrofulous, 2 in impaired health, the remaining 2 only as healthy at the time of operation. u Of the 14 the disease in 11 was entirely constitutional; in 1 it is said to have originated from a nail having run into the heel, and in 2 to have followed sprains. " Of these 11, 3 suffered secondary amputation, 1 on account of ery- sipelas, the other 2 from recurrence of disease in the remaining tarsal bones. One died of diphtheria, which can scarcely be attributed to this operation in particular, and 7 recovered the perfect use of the limb. <: Of the remaining 3, in which the exciting cause is stated to have been accident, 2 recovered completely, whilst the result of the third was doubtful.