451 POISONING. used separately, and not combined. There appears, however, to be no reason why the carbonate should not first be given, to prevent diffusion, and then cite peroxido of hydrogen. The administration of the car- bonate after the peroxide would be useless. Hydrocyanic acid.—Dr. Frank * relates two cases of poisoning, one by essential oil of bitter almonds, the other by cyanide of potassium, lu both cases large quantities of the respective poisons were taken for suicidal purposes. The post-mortem examinations were notable chiefly on account of the exhibition in both cases of appearances which, when observed previously, have been supposed to have had only an accidental connection with the administration of the poison. These peculiar appearances Were a cherry-red colour of the very fluid blood, marked rigidity of the extremities, more speedy decomposition in the internal than in the external parts of the body, firm clenching of the jaws, great firmness of the medullary substance, exudation into the cerebral ventricles, distension of the vessels of the brain and spinal cord; above all, a distended state of the lungs, they being markedly filled with dark fluid blood, and penetrated with fine oedematous froth, such as is never found in other cases of sudden death. Dr. Stevenson f has recorded a case of suicidal poisoning by hydro- cyanic acid, observed by Dr. Hilton Fagge. The patient, a medical student, survived at least an hour and a quarter after the administration of the poison, and this is perhaps the longest time on record. Another remarkable circumstance was the entire absence of" convulsions. Preyer J has investigated the cause of the- poisonous properties of hydrocyanic acid and the cyanides. Directing his attention to the action of these agents on the colouring matter of blood (haemoglobin) he finds that an aqueous solution of O-Hb § of such a state of con- centration that the space between the absorption bands as seen in the spectroscope is quite clear, shows on the addition of cyanide of potas- sium and subsequent long standing, or if after the addition the tempe- rature of the mixture be raised to that of the blood, in place of the two O-Hb bands, one broad ill-defined band, the darkest part of which lies somewhat nearer to the violet end of the spectrum than that of C02-Hb. Cyanide of potassium and O-Hb soiutions are bright red when dilute, and almost black when concentrated; on the addition of water they exhibit a clear yellow glimmer, and they absorb the blue rays powerfully, and the violet completely. Such solutions will remain unchanged for a week, and are neither coagulated nor changed in their spectroscopic peculiarities on warming. Solutions of haemoglobin, to which prussic acid has been added, behave in a similar manner, except that they are coagulated by a heat of 1040 Fahr., and quickly become turbid at ordinary temperatures. Into the minute spectroscopic appearances and changes produced by * ' Horn's Vierteljahrschr.,' ix, p. 179. f ' Guy's Hotp. Hep.,' 1868, p. 259. X 'Arch. f. Path. Anat.,' xl, p. 125. § We here, and subsequently, employ a very convenient and now much-used notation in which hscmoglobin is designated by the symbol lib, its oxygen combination by O-Hb, it3 combination with carbonic acid by C02-Hb, &c.