465 SUFFOCATION. presents uo difficulties in its execution, requiring merely some precautions which are known and easily realised ; among these M. Blondlot recom- mends the use of ammoniacal alcohol for the extraction of the stains instead of water. 3. That in certain cases the test fails, so that, though the production of the crystals establishes the presence of blood, their non-production cannot be accepted as a conclusive proof of its absence. Seminal stains.—M. Roussin publishes an able account of the best method of examining suspected stains of semen.* After noting the number, situation, and physical appearauces of the stains, he advises portions of the articles of clothing on which they are found to be care- fully treated with a couple of drops of cold water in a watch-glass. After a couple of hours' digestion the threads of the fabric are to be torn asunder, thread by thread, with great care, by means of dissecting needles. Spermatozoa often adhere very firmly to the filaments of the garment, and cannot be dislodged by simple maceration in water. It is therefore usually necessary to examine the fabric itself. If seminal stains be moistened with a solution of one part of iodine and four parts of iodide of potassium in one hundred parts of water, the spermatozoa are brought into prominence, and are readily distinguishable from other objects under the microscope. Wounds. Of the throat.—Dr. Taylor publishes a long and exhaustive article on this topic, apropos of the case of John Wiggins, f who was tried at the Central Criminal Court for the murder of jAgnes Oaks, on the 25th September, 1867. In consequence of the late appearance of the article we are unable to give our readers more than a reference to it. Of the genitals.—M. Toulmouche % contributes some valuable cases of those little-described injuries—wounds of the genitals. One of them, a case of castration of the right testicle, is specially interesting, inasmuch as M. Toulmouche was enabled to state, from the appearance of the wound, and in spite of the obstinate silence of the patient, that the castration must necessarily have been performed by a second person. The recipient of the injury must have been forcibly held. The tunica vagi- nalis was neatly opened from above downwards, the testicle drawn out, and the cord divided above in an artistic manner. For further details we must refer to the paper itself. Suffocation. Prof. Tardieu publishes a paper on the value of subpleural ecchy- mosis as a sign of death from suffocation.§ The value of ecchymoses beneath the pleura, pericardium, and pericranium, as a characteristic sign of death from suffocation, even when no signs of violence are found on the exterior of the body, has been doubted; but Tardieu is convinced that it is of great value, and endeavours in this paper to place the test on a sure basis. * ' Ann. d'llyg.,' xxvii, p. 142. _ f 'Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1868, p. 112. X ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxx, p. 110. § Ibid., xxix, p. 104.