REPORT ON SURGERY. :iOO where the left subclavian artery appeared to be wanting.—la the ' Deutsche Klinik' for .Nov. 2, 1867, Dr. Bernhard Beck relates a case of aneurism of considerable interest. The aneurism was spontaneous, and appa- rently of the true sacciform variety, situated in the right axilla; all the usual symytoms were present. The pulsation was completely con- trolled by pressure on the subclavian. There was a slight murmur with the second sound of the heart. No pulsation whatever could be de- tected in the subclavian or any of its branches on the left side, until the right subclavian had been compressed for some time, when a feeble pulse was to be felt in the neighbourhood of the shoulder (apparently in one of the scapular arteries), in the lower third of the brachial, and in the radial artery. It was concluded that the subclavian artery was obliterated, possibly as a congenital malformation. Pressure was applied directly to the aneurism, and the subclavian artery was submitted on eight occasions to digital pressure, which, however, could not long be tolerated. The patient soon quitted the hospital, but remained at home on suitable diet, at perfect rest, and continuing the pressure. The pulsation gradually diminished, the symptoms of pressure on the nerves of the brachial plexus, which had been severe, disappeared, and he began to work at his trade as a smith. One day he suddenly lost all power in the arm ; formication in the skin followed, the pulse in the tumour and in the wrist disappeared, the fingers turned of a yellow colour, and the arm began rapidly to waste. The cure, from this time, was complete in the aneurism, and the tumour soon disappeared. The arm recovered power, though it remained weaker than it had been, the pulsation of the branches of the opposite subclavian became more per- ceptible than it had been before, and the carotid of the left side became much dilated. The aortic bruit disappeared, and the man seemed to enjoy perfect health. Ligature of external iliac for the cure of elephantiasis.—In the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 23, 1867, Dr. G-. Buchanan, of Glasgow, has related the particulars of a case of true elephantiasis of the lower limb, of five years' duration, following on repeated attacks of erysipelas, in a girl of 17. The affection was very considerable. She had been treated at the skin dispensary for four months, but without benefit; and on coming under Dr. Buchanan's care, he made trial of the effect of rest and me- thodical compression, so that there might be no doubt as to the disease being incurable by any means short of an operation. Finally, as these means did not produce any benefit, the external iliac artery was tied. The immediate effects of the operation were most gratifying. The size of the limb became reduced to the natural proportions, except that the foot still remained enlarged. She could go about with ease, which had before been impossible, and the skin, which had presented a hard, horny, scaly surface, became soft, elastic natural in colour and, in fact, in all other respects. This apparent cure had lasted from the period of operation in January till the reading of Dr. Buchanan's paper before the British Medical Association in Aug. 1867 ; and the success so ob- tained led Dr. Buchanan to speak warmly of the advantages of the operation, and to recommend its adoption in spite of the unfavorable