170 HE PORT ON PK A.CTICAT, MEDICINE. there would be in 10 c.c. of urine 10 milligrms. of uric acid; 4 c.c. of the 1-10 standard solution of iodine (= '0508 grm. of iodine) in a well- stoppered glass vessel, capable of containing 20 to ,30 c.c, will accord- ingly suffice for a preliminary excess of iodine. If the urine is not perceptibly acid, it must previously be rendered so by acetic acid. The after treatment with 1-10 standard solution of hyposulphite of soda is had recourse to, or for the purpose of distinguishing the colours of this mixture of urine and iodine it is tinged blue by a drop of starch-paste 5 the hyposulphite of soda is to be added, by means of a "oi c.c. pipette, to the mixture, after standing 24 hours, until the coloration begins to disappear. A complete exposition of this last reaction is given by Mohr, in his work on ' Chemical Analysis.' The authors do not know whether the uric acid in this process is converted into alloxan or into alloxantin. In a subsequent communication to the same journal (13 June, 1868) these authors acknowledge the priority of Max Huppert, who, it seems, had already ('Archiv f. Heilk.,' v, 1864) investigated the whole sub- ject. Both sets of investigators are agreed that neither urea, hippuric acid, oxalic acid, kreatin, sugar, albumen, or mineral salt, have any in- fluence on the reaction, but both would seem to be in doubt about the influence of the colouring material found in the urine; nevertheless, the authors think the process a decidedly useful one for chemical purposes. Koschlakoff and Bogomoloff (' Centblatt. f. Med. Wissen.,' 1 Aug. 1868) point out that Pettenkofer's test for the bile acids is exactly similar to the reaction produced by egg albumen along with sugar and sulphuric acid. Like Jafie, they propose the spectroscope for their de- termination, and point out that there is a dichroism with the bile reac- tion—a green with reflected light and a cherry-red with transmitted light. °In a valuable lecture by Oppolzer, translated for the ' New York Medical Journal' (Oct. 1868), the whole subject of diabetes is dis- cussed. He says that, in the majority of cases, the kidneys are en- larged and swollen, their weight is increased, and they are hypersemic or in a state of inflammation. The pyramids or cortical substance are generally hypertrophied. Still, there are many exceptions to this rule, and in a considerable number of cases the kidneys suffer no pathologic change So it is with the liver; sometimes it is swollen and hyper- a3inic° sometimes amyloid. In most of the organs after death sugar is found, except, perhaps, in the brain. In the urine itself the substance called kreatinin is found. This is a nitrogenous substance, which was first demonstrated by Liebig, and afterwards by Neubauer, to be a kind of albuminous material, which also exists in healthy urine At first it was thought that a considerable amount of it was to be found in urine, as much, indeed, as 8-J grains in the urine passed m 24 hours. It was accordingly supposed that there was some relation between the enormous secretion of kreatinin and the secretion of sugar and espe- cially of the diabetic process. Later examinations made at Oppolzer s clinic showed that the amount of kreatinin secreted in diabetes was exaggerated, and that in these cases the amount was not sensibly