71 TREATMENT OF AMBULANT ERYSIPELAS. Dr. Dickinson, writing upon the nature of the waxy substance, tries to establish that this affection depends upon impregnation with fibrin free from alkalies. He says that tubercular and other cachexies cannot be considered as causes of it. The only thing with which it is closely connected is suppuration, the cause probably being the loss of albumen and alkali from the blood, to which suppuration gives rise. He instances the encystment of the deposit in the connective tissue, its contractile tendency and its identity with the fibrin casts of the uriniferous tubes. The latter, just like the waxy deposit, are coloured red-brown with iodine. On the other hand, with the addition of sul- phuric acid, there is no blue colour. This colour, indeed, is never seen except by those who are looking out for it. The close connection between suppuration and waxy degeneration is illustrated by 60 cases observed by Dickinson and others. In 46 there had been protracted suppuration ; in 4 dissection proved that there had formerly been sup- puration ; in 4 there was albuminuria from granular kidneys; in 6 the causes were unknown. In 15 out of 27 of Grainger Stewart's caseg there was suppuration, and in 9 the probability that it had formerly existed. All this leads to the conclusion that in every case in which suppuration has been going on a long time there is likely to be an amyloid disease, and if there is albuminuria and enlargement of the liver the diagnosis will be pretty certain. Dickinson explains the pathology thus :—He refers to the researches of Hasse and Lehmann, showing that pus contains twice as much alkali and albumen as the blood-serum ; consequently prolonged suppuration must cause excessive fibrin and diminished alkalinity of the blood. The amyloid substance is characterised by its well-known peculiarities as a fibroid material. It is also free from alkalies. Iodine produces this characteristic reac- tion along with acids, but is lost on soaking the tissue in diluted solu- tions of potash and soda. Healthy tissue, when treated with a weak solution of sulphate of indigo, becomes clear blue, which soon passes into pale green. Amyloid tissues, on the contrary, become deep blue, which remains constant. This is a test quite as good as the iodine for recognising the amyloid substance. Chemical examinations of seven healthy with seven more or less amyloid livers showed that the proportion of potash and soda present was as four to three respectively. Finally, fibrin and albumen, after treatment with diluted muriatic acid, give the same reaction as the amyloid substance. It would be better, in short, in view of the facts now ascertained, to abolish the term " amy- loid," and call the change in question a depurative degeneration, since suppuration is the most frequent if not the only cause of it. Treatment must be directed, not only to the restoration of the albumen, but also to that of the alkalies (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1867). Treatment of Ambulant Erysipelas. M. Abelin's views on this subject are stated in a short paper. He considers that, of all the forms of erysipelas which attack children, this is the most serious one. He thinks that the best and most efficient external treatment is that of hot-water baths, which not only produce