REPORT ON SURGERY. 198 first to the third degree of narcotism was very brief; that when the anaesthesia, which was complete in an average of five minutes, was well established, it was easily prolonged for six, and even seven minutes, without readministering the vapour, and when recovery began to show itself very brief readministration quickly reproduced the insensibility. In one case after the operation the patient continued twenty-seven minutes in unbroken sleep, and then awoke with entire consciousness. " It happened that one of the ladies to whom I gave the anaesthetic had once been under chloroform, Dr. Snow having been the adminis- trator. This lady was therefore able to compare the effects of the two agents, and she gave her verdict strongly in favour of the bichloride." Antiseptic treatment by carbolic acid.—In the ' British Medical Journal,' Sept. 21, 1867, and in the other London medical papers of the same date, will be found a paper read by Prof. Lister, of Glasgow, before the meeting of the British Medical Association at Dubliu, on Aug. 9, 1867, and which contains the details of the treatment of wounds and abscesses by the application of carbolic acid, which was noticed in the previous volume of this lletrospect, p. 219. The princi- ple on which the treatment is based is thus stated: " To prevent the occurrence of suppuration, with all its attendant risks, was an object manifestly desirable, but till lately apparently unattain- able, since it seemed hopeless to attempt to exclude the oxygen, which was universally regarded as the agent by which putrefaction was effected. But when it had been shown by the researches of Pasteur that the septic property of the atmosphere depended not on the oxygen, or any gaseous constituent, but on minute organisms suspended in it, which owed their energy to their vitality, it occurred to me that decom- position in the injured part might be avoided without excluding the air, by applying as a dressing some material capable of destroying the life of the floating particles. " The material which I have employed is carbolic or phenic acid, a volatile organic compound, which appears to exercise a peculiar destruc- tive influence upon low forms of life, and hence is the most powerful antiseptic with which we are at present acquainted." As to the details of the treatment, Mr. Lister speaks as follows: " In conducting the treatment, the first object must be the destruction of any septic germs which may have been introduced into the wound, either at the moment of the accident, or during the time which has since elapsed. This is done by introducing the acid of full strength into all accessible recesses of the wound by means of a piece of rag held in dressing forceps and dipped in the liquid. This I did not venture to do in the earlier cases; but experience has shown that the compound which carbolic acid forms with the blood, and also any portions of tissue killed by its caustic action, including even parts of the bone, are dis- posed of by absorption and organization, provided they are afterwards kept from decomposing. We are thus enabled to employ the antiseptic treatment efficiently at a period after the occurrence of the injury at which it would otherwise probably fail. " The next object to be kept in view is to guard effectually against the