501 LEGISLATION. should bo at once notified by the grave-diggers. No building ought to be erected in a cemetery except a house for the sexton, and a mortuary. A scheme for the apportionment of the graves must be laid down by the conductors of every cemetery. Twice as much superficial area should be allowed to adults and to children above ten as to those under ten years of age. On the plans the sites of graves must be numbered con- secutively, and the graves constructed in the same order. Dividing the deceased into those above and those below ten years of age, the first class must have a superficial area of 9 X 6 feet, and the second of 6x3} feet (Prussian). Provision is then made for keeping the regis- ters of the graves. The interment of more than one corpse in a grave ought to be forbidden. The graves of those above ten years old should have a depth of 6 feet, those of children under that age should be 3-^ feet deep, and the soil should form mounds of the heights of 2 feet and 1 foot respectively. On arriving at the grave the coffin should be entirely covered with earth before the religious ceremony commences. Old graves may be used again after the lapse of thirty years. If bones be turned up in reopening the graves they are to be placed at the bottom of the new grave; and if undecomposed soft parts of the body are met with, these must be buried deeper than portions of the hard skeleton. If on opening a grave a bad smell be perceived, the grave is to be immediately closed. Dr. Riippell also gives various other direc- tions, which we omit, that are of less interest. Legislation. Several new Acts of Parliament have been passed during the last two years having important bearings on the public health of this country. The " Vaccination Act, 1867," is a measure of increased stringency for the enforcement of the practice of vaccination. The 31st and 32nd Vict., cap. 36, very properly makes perpetual the "Alkali Act, 1863." On February 1st, 1869, the "Petroleum Act, 1868," came into force, and provides for the safe keeping of petroleum. It is enacted that petroleum shall include any product of the distillation of minerals giving off an inflammable vapour at a temperature of less than ioo° Pahr. No petroleum, otherwise than for private use, is to be kept within fifty yards of a dwelling house. It is earnestly to be hoped that this statute may reduce the accidents which from time to time occur from the ignorant management of petroleum and rock oils. The 31st and 32nd Vict., cap. 80, amends the " Contagious Diseases Act, 1866." The 31st and 32nd Vict., cap. 87, has for its object to further extend and make compulsory the practice of vaccination in Ireland. "The Sanitary Act, 1868," amends the "Sanitary Act, 1866." Its chief provision is that which permits the erection of dry earth-closets in lieu of water-closets. " The Artisan's and Labourer's Dwellings Act, 1868," contains most important provisions. Any four or more householders may represent to an officer of health that any neighbouring premises are in a state danger- ous to health. The officer of health, with or without such requisition,