llEl'ORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 488 expedient to suspend all communication between Egypt and the Medi- terranean ports, notwithstanding the inconveniences that must neces- sarily ensue to commerce from the carrying out of Buch a measure. After insisting on the measures to be taken in Persia for preventing importation of the disease into Europe overland—measures which the Persian Government has appointed a sanitary commission to take into consideration—the necessity of enforcing the defensive line alreadv constituted on the Black Sea by Turkey, the sufficiency of the natural Eussian frontier on the side of Bokhara, and the stringent preventive steps required in the Russo-Persian frontier, especially in the neigh- bourhood of the delta of Kour, were laid down. M. Fauvel gives also an interesting sketch of the progress of cholera since the close of the labours of the conference in September, 1866, and of the carrying out of the prophylactic measures recommended by that body. After sketching the course pursued by the epidemic in 1865,* he states that in 1867 the disease was then not yet extinguished in Europe, but that, whilst it still kept hold of some of its old foci, and even new ones were formed in parts which had previously been spared, cholera broke out with severity in North Africa, whilst in France it was confined to Bretagne. In 1868 it had died out in Europe before the month of May ; and though a few of the old centres have since lighted up their hidden fires, but little has been heard of it during the last summer. Imported into Guadaloupe in October, 1865, cholera raged throughout the Antilles, whence it spread to the continent. Cuba and St. Thomas's suffered very severely, whilst, thanks to a rigid quarantine, Martinique escaped. Though a case of cholera appeared in New York, November 3rd, 1865, in a vessel from Loudon via Havre, the disease did not then spread; but in 1866 English emigrants imported it into Halifax, whence it speedily extended to New York and beyond. In 1867 the epidemic spread over the coasts of North America, and in the Baine year it spread from the Antilles to the east coast of South America. It appeared in Brazil and even at La Plata; at Montevideo and Buenos Ayres, whence, ascending the river, it attacked the belligerents in Paraguay and committed great ravages. In February, 1868, the epidemic was not extinct in Buenos Ayres. It remains to be seen whether the disease will be reimported into Europe from the west, as it was in 1854, into Spain from Havana. Returning to the spread of the outbreak in 1865, the disease, besides its irruption into Europe, returned eastward by two chief routes—by the Persian Gulf, Chatt-el-Arab, Bassorah, Kerbellah, and Bagdad; and by Syria, Aleppo, and along the banks of the Euphrates and Tigris. The point of junction of the two streams of pilgrims travelling in these directions was at Kerbellah, a sacred place to the Persians. The Syrian current sent out a branch towards Diarbekir, which penetrated directly eastward into Kurdistan and into Persia by Khoi-Sandjak. Even towards the middle of 1866 the disease remained confined to the valleys of Kurdistan and to the Turkish valleys of the province of Bagdad which abut on the Persian frontier. It then penetrated the country, appearing in the province of Ourmia and reached Tauris. * Vide this' Retrospect,' 1865-6, p. 492.