REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 54- colourless cells, and, soon after, the same protrusion through the wall of the vessel as has been described in the case of the veins. But in the capillaries not only white, but also red cells escape through the walls. A singular element in the migration of the latter is the length of time during which they sometimes remain sticking in transitu. In this posi- tion it sometimes happens that their, inner half is torn off and carried away by the blood-current. Nothing is more interesting than the demonstration which Cohnheim's experiments afford, that the whole business of cell-formation in inflam- mation of a serous membrane is performed by the migrating corpuscles, and that the epithelium-cells have nothing to do with it. If the latter perish at all it is only by being cast oft". Cohnheim followed the process of inflammation up to the point where the mesentery is filled with crowds of contractile cells, and also covered ou both sides by a fibrinous layer filled with such cells. Attempts were made to exhibit the same phenomena in mammalian animals; and although the experiment is less satisfactory, substantially the same facts were observed, as to the migration of cells, as in the re- searches on frogs. Cohnheim has no doubt that the experiments thus performed on the mesentery fairly represent the pathological processes in inflammations of other parts. He leaves it doubtful whether emi- gration of white cells be the only source of pus, but is disposed to deny that the corpuscles of a connective tissue ever produce pus-cells by division. Alcoholism. Professor Leudet, of Eouen, describes ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' Jan., 1867) a variety of chronic alcoholism, in which the predominant symp- tom is pain, and which he thinks is more common than is generally supposed. The pain varies in intensity ; it is generally deep-seated, but sometimes superficial; occasionally it assumes the form of a remarkably exalted sensibility of the whole trunk and limbs. There is often at the same time pain along the spine, analgesia or anaesthesia in certain parts of the skin, weakened mobility and muscular power, especially in the lower limbs, cramp, and increased reflex movements. This form of alco- holism is sometimes followed by paraplegia. The pathological ex- planation of these symptoms is found in a morbid alteration of the spinal cord. They are liable to remarkable variations, and when they disappear they often leave behind them a more or less marked impair- ment of the motility in the lower limbs. Dr. Anstie discusses the whole subject of alcoholism, both acute aud chronic, considering it, for the purposes of the physician, as a disease of the nervous system. It manifests itself usually in a chronic, and only occasionally in an acute form. Anstie regards the exciting causes of alcoholism" as consisting in the repeated direct action of blood strungly impregnated with alcohol on the tissue of the nervous centres aud branches, rendering them incapable of the due performance of their functions, and of the influence of an insufficiently oxygenated blood supply, consequent on a morbid condition of the blood-corpuscles. Alco- hol in small doses unquestionably acts, not as a poison, but as a food;