307 YESICO-INTESTINAL FISTULA. " The first group, comprising cases in which the fistula exists between the bladder and the rectum, and can be seen and reached, permit sur- gical treatment. " Of the second class, where the fistula exists between the bladder and any section of the intestines down to that part of the rectum which already receives a peritoneal investment, I think it must be said that it is beyond the reach of art. " First, the exact situation of the fistula must always remain rather a matter of surmise, although the statistics indicate the caecum as that pare of the intestines which, by its not uncommon lesions, is most fre- quently the organ implicated. " But even granted that the exact site of the fistula could be diagnos- ticated, how could it be attacked except by opening the abdomen, de- taching both viscera from each other, and closing each fistulous opening separately with sutures ? That such a procedure has the mark of fatality broadly stamped on it it is unnecessary to dwell upon. " I refrain, too, from criticising the fantastic plan of a French sur- geon (Barbier), who proposes to make a temporary artificial anus at the caecum, and to introduce through it a metallic tube, reaching some- what above the valvula Bauhini, through which the faeces from the ilium would be led past the fistula, which, ceasing to be the conduit of stercoraceous matter, might then close. After which the artificial anus might be closed also. The objections are so manifest that I forbear to enter on their enumeration. " Quite distinct in scope and technicism from Barbier's is the plan to make an artificial anus for the relief of vesico-intestinal fistula, pursued by Pennell * and T. Holmes.f Both these surgeons had to do with cases in which the intestinal entrance of the fistula could not be de- tected by rectal examination. But both cases showed symptoms which made it probable that the intestinal end of the fistula was below the region in which, by Callisen-Amussat's operation, an artificial anus is established. Both these gentlemen succeeded in leading the contents of the bowels out through an artificial anus in the left lumbar region, so that they could no more engage in the fistula and reach the bladder. In Pennell's case the patient did well, and lived for many years. I am not able to find out whether the fistula healed and the artificial anus closed. In Holmes's case the patient was entirely relieved—for better than one year, I believe—from all the symptoms consequent upon faces getting into the bladder; when these very same troubles reap- peared, and the patient succumbed. The autopsy revealed the fact, that some time after colotomy by adhesion and ulceration a new fistula had formed, between the caecum and the bladder, the deleterious effects of which, of course, could not be warded off by the artificial anus in the left lumbar region. * A case of stricture of tlie rectum, wherein an artificial anus was successfully estab- lished in the lumbar region. By J. Wilson Croker Pennell. ' Med.-Chir. Transactions,' 1850, xxxiii. t A case of lumbar colotomy, successfully performed for the relief of vesico-intestinal fi :i a. By T. Holmes, Assistant-Surgcon St. George's Hospital, London. 'Med.-Chir Transactions,' 1866, xlix.