CURVATURE OP THE SPINE. 219 Compression will not prevent the intervertebral discs from recovering themselves, if only the compressing force be antagonised. The plan of treatment which Mr. Barwell recommends in lumbar curvature is to commence by remedying the faulty relations between the pelvis and thighs, in which he believes it to have its origin. This he effects by making the patient sit for some hours a day on a sloping seat, raised towards the side to which the hip projects. The degree of slope must be carefully regulated, as too great elevation does harm by exhausting the muscles which are to be called into action. This posi- tion may also be supplemented by applying a high sole to the boot on the convex side of the lumbar curve. In cases where the prominence of the soft parts covering the convex side of the lumbar curve is well marked, a bandage is to be applied after a fashion described in the paper, consisting of a broad belt or band round the flank on the convex side, supported by a pad or girth round the opposite hip, and, if neces- sary, the shoulder also. The object of this appears to be to check the tendency to any further leaning towards the outgrowing side, and to give support without weight or cumbrousness. To these curative mea- sures Mr. Barwell adds calisthenic exercises, the most advantageous of which are described as follows: " Let the lumbar curve be to the right; the patient, with both knees perfectly straight, stands on a block or book from one to three inches high, as the case may demand, and with the right foot so close to the edge of the block that, by just separating the limbs, that extremity passes over the border. Still keeping the knees quite straight, the right foot is by action at the hips made to sink till its sole rests fairly on the ground for a minute, both knees being kept straight; then it is replaced on the book, and this manoeuvre is repeated for a prescribed time, and at a certain rate. A chair is placed against the wall, the patient, standing sideways to the wall, balances herself with the left hand upon it, and, planting the left foot on the chair, slowly lifts her- self until she stands upright. Standing with her back to the wall, the patient slowly lifts the left knee forward till the thigh is at right angles to the body, and gradually lets the limb fall again, repeating this move- ment slowly and rhythmically. After a time the foot is to be weighted according to the strength of the patient. t: An exercise very valuable in long-standing and severe cases, for stretching ligaments on the concave side of the spine, is the following: —The patient stands with the back to the wall, and, if possible, with the left side against the corner wall, or some straight piece of furniture, as a piano or bookcase, so that she may be sure of not deviating from the perpendicular to that side. A block, of carefully proportioned thickness, is placed under the right foot. Fixing the right arm akimbo, she quickly and forcibly (according to her strength) bends the upper part of the body sideways to the right, and repeats this several times. The back must be kept against the wall, the knees kept rigidly straight, and it the limbs be rather weak, or the patient awkward, a napkin or round towel passed round the hips, and secured to the wall on her left, must uphold the due position of the pelvis. " These are the more important among the exercises which I employ.