APHASIA. 81 tradicted and repudiated at Norwich. Then there is the fact, which Vogt himself mentioned at Norwich, and which is. we presume, undis- puted, that in apes the third left convolution actually is entirely absent. Of theories which go to explain the predominance of left-sided action in speech, there is none more remarkable than that which was inde- pendently arrived at by Prof. Broca in 1865 and by Dr. Moxon in 1866. This theory ascribes the lead takeu by the left cerebral hemisphere, and especially its frontal convolutions, in those mental acts which make ap- propriate speech and writing possible, to the constant education of the left side of the brain by the traditional habit which decides that we shall perform a variety of daily and common acts (employing, however, great skill and delicacy of movement) with our right limbs. If the theory of Gratiolet were true (which, however, is disputed), this centri- petal influence would be reinforced by the natural disposition of the left convolutions to develop with more rapidity than the right. (The foregoing is from an article in the 'Lancet,' Sept. 19, 1868, by the author of the present Report.) Dr. Maudsley objects altogether to Broca's and every other theory which localises the faculty of speech in particular convolutions of the brain. He says that from the stand-point at which we have arrived it is impossible to admit the existence of a speech faculty in the convolu- tions without supposing that they were the seat of motor centres, and thus abandoning all that we know definitely concerning the functions of different parts of the brain. He does not propound any hypothesis as to where are the motor centres of speech—whether in the corpora striata, or corpora olivaria, or somewhere else. He only asserts the conviction that, like all of the motor centres, they must be subordinate to the supreme hemispherical ganglia. Broca's theory is inadmissible h priori, as well as inconclusive a posteriori. It agrees neither with what we know of the physiology of language nor with the pathological evidence on which it professes to rest. It is easy to conceive different pathological conditions to account for the phenomena of aphasia, more probable physiologically than Broca's hypothesis, and more in con- formity with the morbid lesions actually found in aphasia, for the facts really point, not to lesion of the third left frontal convolution as the essential element, but to lesion of some part of the corpora striata, or of some motor nuclei or intercommunicating fibres in its neighbourhood —to lesion, anyhow, of some part of the motor centres or of their communications with the supreme centres. "We shall bear in mind that if the actual motor centres of speech be not implicated in the de- struction of tissue, they may still be paralysed by the inhibitory in- fluence of a severe damage in their near neighbourhood. Of Dr. Moxon's theory, Maudsley remarks that the education of the motor nuclei of one side must be the education of the other side if they always acted simultaneously, an objection which Moxon appears to have overlooked. There is, moreover, no warrant for the assump- tion postulated by the theory of a one-sided speech faculty, that a motor nucleus on one side, independently of its fellow, govern the movements of both side3 of the body. ]f the supposed analogy of writing be urged at all, we ought to push it further, and ask how it is that an intelligent 6