REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 50 and may be said to be tbe result of a surplus of receipts. At any rate excess of animal food promotes it, and gluttons are very frequently affected. (3) Influence of the nervous system.—There are many historical instances recorded which prove that strong intellectual exertion favours the disease. (4) Sexual excesses.—No doubt these have an influence, but they are always liable to be complicated with other causes of gout, such as intemperance. (5) Fermented liquors and lead poisoning.— As regards the first of these causes, it is now well proved that it is not the strongest liquors which most cause gout, but the malt liquors. As1 regards wines, the highest rank must be given to port, sherry, Madeira, Marsala, Burgundy, and hermitage. Cider, it appears, especially if new, is also mischievous. As regards lead, since the original statement of Garrod, a great deal of additional evidence has turned up, not only in England, but in Prance. The connection between lead and gout is extremely obscure, and Charcot does little more than quote Garrod's opinion; he thinks that probably lead paralyses the kidneys and thus prevents excretion of uric acid, but it is impossible to say whether this is sufficient alone to cause the gouty conditions. III. ExciTiKa causes.—(1) Alcoholic liquors.—In gouty subjects even small quantities of certain wines will at once promote gout, and wherever this occurs, according to Garrod, one may decide that the inflammation of the joints is gouty. (2) Indigestion and other stomachic derangements act in the same way. (3) Cold and damp and suppressed perspirations produce the same effect. (4) Immoderate intellectual exertion may produce gout. (5) The shock of injuries and operations may produce the same effect. (6) Debilitating causes, such as loss of blood, long illness, &c, fre- quently excite gout, a fact which is interesting, as showing that gout is not necessarily connected with a strong habit of body (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 12—15, 1868). Durand-Fardel discusses the treatment of gout, and speaks in very high praise of the power of Vichy water to keep off attacks. He cannot at all agree with the opinion of Trousseau, who thought that the treat- ment of gout at Vichy was very dangerous ; he thinks the only case in which the water should not be used are when the local symptoms present a very low type, or where the patient is cachectic; in this case Wiesbaden water is better. In order to use Vichy water with effect the patient should not bathe till some time after the attack has subsided. In recent gouty affections, where there is no fever, this direct treatment is the best; but where there is fever, poultices of linseed meal, changed very frequently and sprinkled with laudanum, arc best for the pain. Durand-Fardel forbids the local use of ice, and also of drugs, espe-