110 REPOET ON P It A OTIC A. L MEDTCINK. were healthy except the left ventricle ; there, on the anterior and pos- terior walls, were found two ulcers resting on the thick walls of the ventricle, their surfaces covered with a kind of detritus. Irritable Heart, tyc. Professor Maclean, of Netley, in a lecture on disease of the heart in our army ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 16, 1867), points out the great frequency of irritable heart without valvular disease, and associates it with milk spots on the heart, the so-called " soldier's spot." There is in these cases hypertrophy without valvular disease, at first at least. He then points out the awkward and unnecessary way the weights the soldier has to carry are distributed so as to press on the axillary arteries and on the chest generally, and insists on the necessity of altering the soldiers' accoutrements. Dr. Douglas records an interesting case in the ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' April, 1868. The patient was a remarkably powerful man, act. 35, who, when seen, appeared to be in a very bad state. There was constant breath- lessness and cough, the patient could not lie down, his skin was straw- coloured, his urine scanty and high coloured. He had suffered from haemoptysis. The impulse of the heart wanted distinctuess, and ap- peared diffused aud irritable, but strong, differing much from the radial pulse, which was 120 and weak. The action of the heart was regular and the sounds were natural, except that the first approached in character the second. From the time he was first seen his condition, notwith- standing certain temporary rallies, gradually got worse. His skin became more yellow, his urine more scanty, his breathing and cough more troublesome, there was marble-like coldness of the extremities and oedema of the legs. Nourishment was loathed, but stimulants, especially champagne, were craved for. He had considerable pain in the right hypogastrium, but warmth applied to it invariably excited vomiting; ice seemed to relieve the latter. He could not sleep except sitting up- right and bending slightly forward. Finally he died after a partially convulsive attack. On opening the left ventricle a rounded nodule was seen to project into it from the auricle, and when the latter was examined a soft cellular growth was found to originate from the posterior wall of the auricle, to nearly fill its cavity and project into the ventricle. It was 4^ in. long, i\in. broad, and i|in. deep at its deepest part. It was covered by some layers of fibrin, but had a dis- tinct structure of its own. Many of its cells resembled connective- tissue-corpuscles, but there were no cells which could be called dis- tinctly cancerous. Dr. Eichardson ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 4, 1868), speaking of intermittent pulse, says there are three kinds of irregular pulse—what he terms acute irregularity, where the pulse beats are in fours or fives, each series differing iri time from each other ; prolonged irregularity, where the pulsations during one minute or other period differ in rapidity from those during the next succeeding period; and, lastly, the most common variety, or intermittent pulse, associated with the feeling of palpitation, where one or more beats are left out, as it were, from the