EEPOItT ON SUB.GERY. 238 hand. There had heen, however, also a kick on the chest; and Mr. Raven suspected that the dislocation proceeded from a fall on the hand in consequence of this injury. He states that he has heen unahle to find any record of a similar injury. In the third vol. of the ' St. George's Hospital Reports' will he found a paper hy Mr. Brodhurst on the reduction of dislocations of old stand- ing, giving the account of the reduction of a dislocation of the wrist of six years' standing, and one of the shoulder seventy-five days after the occurrence of the accident. Fractures of'the lower jaw.—In the 'British Medical Journal,' Feb. 23, March 2 and March 9, 1867, Mr. Berkeley Hill has given an account of the various contrivances recently introduced into practice for the treatment of fracture of the jaw: " The various positions into which the fragments may fall are— " 1. Simple fracture in the anterior part of the bone with no, or very little, displacement. " 2. Single fracture, with elevation of the posterior part above the level of the other. "3. The same, with the addition of lateral displacement. " 4. Double fracture, separating both sides from the front of the bone, with backward and downward displacement, and with or without loosening the teeth and comminution of the fragments. " Any of these may, of course, he complicated with injury to the soft parts. j " The various modes adopted by different surgeons may be collected into four heads: " 1. The external bandage and splint. " 2. Ligature of the teeth, or ligature through the broken ends of the bone itself. " 3. An interdental splint in the mouth and an external apparatus under the chin, between which the jaw is fixed. "4. An interdental splint fixed to the teeth only." It is hardly necessary to say much about the first, which is the method in ordinary use for simple fractures near the canine teeth, attended with little or no displacement. Mr. Hill gives some details with regard to the minutiae of manipulation in making the splint. The three other methods are adapted to more complicated cases. Ligature of the teeth is now generally abandoned as a permanent method of treatment, because, when tight enough to keep the fragments together, the ligature will loosen the teeth. But, as a temporary measure, it is useful while the permanent apparatus is being adjusted. Direct suture of the bone, by passing a wire through each fragment, has been used with success, both in Europe and America. The third plan is the interdental splint. This can be made on the plan of M. Morel-Lavallee, by laying a piece of softened gutta percha on the teeth (the fragments being brought temporarily together with thread or wire), and attaching this to a horseshoe plate beneath the jaw by means of a hook on either side, which catches the gutta percha, and is provided with a stem to screw into the plate. This splint, how-