322 REPORT ON SURGERY. much. In some an external irritant can scarcely be borne for a few minutes without producing a painful blush on the surface; while others can bear the same application without much pain or irritation for a con- siderable period. Dr. Faye has observed several instances of such pecu- liarity, which, of course, has a marked effect upon the time at which immunity would be produced. " When by degrees a torpid state of skin is obtained, so that the ointment above mentioned produces very little effect, the irritation of the skin can be continued by one or other of the following plans:— Either the ointment may be allowed to remain longer applied, or its strength may be increased. But it is to be noted that in the latter case the ointment, instead of producing simple irritation of the skin, is likely to induce mortification of its texture. The consequence of this is that the sores which follow become deep, and leave regular scars. This is not the same after the application of the ointment of the ordinary strength, which leaves only superficial sores. " The action of such irritating matter would appear in some respects to be peculiar in infants. From long experience Dr. Faye has fouud in the treatment of purulent ophthalmia in newly born children that the milder irritants produce less visible results, and are more circumscribed in their operation than in older children. " Dr. Faye says that he cannot express a distinct opinion on the point as to whether the continued application of irritating matter to a limited surface would produce immunity of the skin generally, nor how long the local immunity would last. All his experience had reference to the treatment of cases, and that treatment was discontinued when the cases were convalescent. From the facts which had come under his observation he is able to affirm that, after the application of the oint- ment as described, the skin on a large surface of the body—as, for instance, the nape of the neck and the back—becomes callous to its action, or, at the most, shows signs of a superficial soreness, which very soon dries up. And he also mentions that, after such application, the same irritants applied to other parts of the skin do not act so power- fully as those previously used. " From these facts, occurring under his own observation, Dr. Faye draws the conclusion that the repeated application of the ointment of corrosive sublimate, or of croton oil, or of other simple irritating agents to large surfaces of the skin, will lead to similar results as those ob- tained in Paris by the repeated application of blisters. This immunity, however, does not extend through the whole texture of the skin ; for if the smallest quantity of the same irritating substance which no longer produces any irritation on the surface be injected into the texture of the skin, a small abscess will without fail follow. Dr. Faye mentions that Dr. Danielssen had found similar results to follow the repeated application of antimonial ointment on different parts of the bodies of patients affected with leprosy in the hospital at Bergen. " Dr. Faye wishes to draw a marked distinction between substances which produce irritation of the skin only and those which act chemically upon the tissues. The effects of the first class gradually cease ; those of the latter continue as long as the skin remains alive. But he par-