199 ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT BY CARBOLIC ACID. spreading of decomposition into the wound along tbo stream of blood and serum which oozes out during the first few days after the accident, when the acid originally applied has been washed out or dissipated by absorption and evaporation. This is done by employing a paste com- posed of common whiting (carbonate of lime), mixed witli a solution of one part of carbolic acid in four parts of boiled linseed oil, so as to form a firm putty. This application contains the acid in too dilute a form to excoriate the skin, which it may be made to cover to any extent that may be thought desirable, while its substance serves as reservoir of the antiseptic material. So long as any discharge continues, the paste should be changed daily, and, in order to prevent the chance of mischief occurring during the process, a piece of rag dipped in the solution of carbolic acid in oil is put on next the skin, and maintained there per- manently, care being taken to avoid raising it along with the putty. This rag is always kept in an antiseptic condition from contact with the paste above it, and destroys any germs that may fall upon it during the short time that should alone be allowed to pass in the changing of the dressing. The putty should be in a layer about a quarter of an inch thick, and may be advantageously applied rolled out between two pieces of thin calico, which maintain it in the form of a continuous sheet, which may be wrapped in a moment round the whole circumfer- ence of a limb if this be thought desirable, while the putty is prevented by the calico from sticking to the rag which is next the skin. This paste is to be covered with a layer of sheet-lead. When all discharge has ceased, the use of the paste is discontinued, but the original rag is left adhering to the skin till healing by scabbing is supposed to be com- plete. " We cannot, however, always'calculate on so perfect a result as this. More or less pus may appear after the lapse of the first week, and the larger the wound the more likely is this to happen. And here I would desire earnestly to enforce the necessity of persevering with the anti- septic application, in spite of the appearance of suppuration, so long as other symptoms are favorable. The surgeon is extremely apt to sup- pose that any suppuration is an indication that the antiseptic treatment has failed, and that poulticing or water dressing should be resorted to. But such a course would in many cases sacrifice a limb or a life." Having thus reproduced Mr. Lister's directions for the carrying out of his method, we must refer the reader to the original for the theo- retical reasoning upon which it is founded. As to its practical results, however, Mr. Lister makes one remark at the conclusion of bis paper which is so important that we cannot but quote it: u There is, however, one point more that I cannot but advert to, viz. the influence of this mode of treatment upon the general healthiness of an hospital. Previously to its introduction the two large wards in which most of my cases of accident and of operation are treated were among the unhealthiest in the whole surgical division of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, in consequence, apparently, of those wards being unfavor- ably placed with reference to the supply of fresh air; and 1 have felt ashamed, when recording the results of my practice, to have so often to allude to hospital gangrene or pyaemia. It was interesting, though