VKN KKEAL AFFECTIONS. 321 Two died—one of sloughing phagedaena; the other, as was believed, of cancer of the liver. The average stay in the hospital was 5 months 16 days; the average duration of treatment, from the first inoculation till immunity was obtained, or the inoculations were discontinued, was 4 months 9 days; and the average number of inoculations was 259 in each patient—145 positive and 114 negative. Both observers agree decidedly in the opinion that syphilization is not a treatment which can be recommended for adoption; but in their theoretical appreciation of the effects they differ, Mr. Lane believing that it does exert some bene- ficial and specific influence over the progress of the disease, while Mr. Gascoyen ascribes all the benefit observed to the natural tendency to recovery, and to the regular life, diet, &c, of the hospital. On immunity of the skin after long-continued irritation. By Henry Lee, P.K.C.S., Surgeon to St. George's Hospital. 'Lancet,' Jan. 12, 1S67, p. 240.*—Prof. F. C. Paye has lately published, in the twentieth volume of the 1 Norwegian Magazine of Medical Science,' some observa- tions on the supposed property of the human skin to become less and less susceptible to the action of external irritants, until at length these produce no visible effects. This condition, when attained, is called "immunity." Dr. Paye had observed, some time ago, that blisters applied at short intervals to a limited surface by degrees became in- effectual; or, in other words, that the skin became more and more callous to the action of cantharadine, and that at last a condition of local immunity was produced. " The only series of experiments made with the express purpose of determining the question were instituted some years ago at Paris. The report on these experiments, which appeared in due course, declared that after a time the skin really lost its power of reaction, and became less and less susceptible to external irritation. " Dr. Faye mentions that he had used for the purpose of counter- irritation an ointment composed of one scruple of corrosive sublimate to two drachms of lard. In the course of ten or twelve hours after this is applied a thin crust is formed, and after this is removed a suppurating surface is left. The degree of inflammation produced by this ointment varied much in different cases. Its repeated application had sometimes to be discontinued; but, upon its reapplication, it was observed, as a .constant phenomenon, that the irritation and secretion of the skin became less and less, until at last a state was attained in which scarcely any effect was produced. "In some individuals, from the commencement, the effects of the application of the ointment were less, and more circumscribed; and in them, after its repeated application, the immunity was sooner attained. " This plan of treatment, for some diseases, Dr. Paye has followed for several years, and, making allowances for different degrees of sus- ceptibility in different cases, with uniform results. " In healthy persona the susceptibility and power of reaction vary • See the Uelrofpcct, 1865-6, p. 308. 21