REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 432 The Muscular System. A case of hypertrophy of the muscles in a boy is related ('.Tourn. f. Kinderk.,' 1868) from the clinique of Dr. Bergeron, of Paris. At ten years old he measured 39 centimeters round the calf, but, nevertheless, he could only walk with difficulty. The case was investigated bv Duchenne, who concluded that the hypertrophy affected the muscles, not the cellular tissue. Duchenne publishes researches (Arch. Gen. de Mdd.,' 1868) on the pseudo-hypertrophic muscular paralysis or paralysis myo-sclerotica. It is characterised by weakness of motion in the legs and loins, extend- ing gradually to the arms, and to the annihilation of movement; by increase of volume of some of the affected muscles ; lastly, by excessive development (hyperplastic), with abundant production of a fibrous texture or of fat-globules in a more advanced stage. This disease Duchenne discovered in 1858. He relates 12 cases observed by himself, and cites 15 observed by others. The subject is carefully analysed and illustrated, and is worthy of special attention. The memoir is fully reproduced in the ' Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868. The Air-passages. Prof. Malmsten, of Stockholm, related to the Society of Swedish Physicians, 1867 ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1869), a case of sudden death during pleurisy from thrombosis in the pulmonary artery. Appa- rently recovering from pleurisy, the patient went out, and on coming in was suddenly seized with great dyspnoea and severe palpitation. Re- spiration exceeded forty in the minute; the heart-beat was so strong that the chest-wall was shaken by it. On auscultation there was heard over the right lung a clear but very strong respiration-rush ; over the left lung it was blowing. The patient became paler, the face and lips assumed a livid colour, a cold sweat broke out over the forehead, and in ten minutes death followed. The patient was conscious to the last moment. Autopsy.—The veins of the dura mater and pia mater were very full. On opening the chest the right lung collapsed normally. There were recent adhesions of the left lung below, and about two pounds of serum in the pleura compressed the upper part. No blood in the heart; the right, contracted, contained no trace of fibrin or coagulum. The heart was of normal size and structure. At the origin of the right pulmonary artery was a coagulum quite filling the vessel; it was dark coloured, and stretched into all the principal branches. There were no thrombi in the left pulmonary artery. Dr. H. Pabius, of Amsterdam, discusses (' Nederl. Tijdschr. v. Greneesk.') the treatment of croup, estimating the worth of the various remedies employed. As an appendix is given the result of Prof. Titanus of Amsterdam's experience of tracheotomy. He practised this operation in eighty cases; twenty-eight were saved. It is not doubted that most of these twenty-eight would have died but for the operation, or that in many of those that died the operation was performed too late. Dr. Midler, of Riga, discusses at length the more recent methods of