REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 182 on the subject of pneumothorax without perforation as a complication of pleuritic effusions. The existence of such a condition has frequently been denied, but M. Boisseau's observations would seem to put its existence out of question. The first case recorded is that of a little girl, set. 10, who, whilst sick of typhoid, was seized with pleurisy ; when examined she exhibited signs of effusion, with air in the upper portion of the chest. She sank in three days. No orifice could be discovered in the lung. In another, also occurring in a little girl of 10, similar phenomena were observed. These had been recorded by Marechal. Another, occurring in a young man, set. 24, is recorded by I'aussier, but this is not so certain as the others. A case recorded by Herard in 1850 is to a certain extent vitiated by the absence of certain signs of pneumothorax, or at least their non-detection during life; but another recorded by the same author is at least better in this respect. Several others are given by M. Boisseau of various value. One he records himself occurring in a civic guard, set. 38, and appears as conclusive as possible, and another perhaps less so by M. Moutard-Martin. The objections raised against the existence of such a form of disease he enumerates as fol- lows :—1st. The contact of air is indispensable for putrid decomposition and the formation of gases in such a cavity as those of the pleura. This is easily rebutted when we think of certain abscesses when opened. 2nd. The gas, which at the post-mortem examination escapes from the cavity of the thorax, may come from a perforation of the lung on opening the cavity. Such an objection cannot apply where the lung is forced far back by effusion, and where no opening whatever can be discovered. .3rd. The gas may be formed after death. To this it may be answered that its existence has been detected during life by means of more than one physical sign. 4th. In the cases where pneumothorax is cited as being without perforation an opening existed, but was not found. Against this can be urged the careful examination made, and the coin- position of the gas, which is very different from that in ordinary pneumo- thorax. 5th. In the cases narrated the signs of pneumothorax during life have not been incontestable. To this the only reply which can be given is—here are the signs : judge for yourselves. M. Boisseau enters into some details as to the symptomatology and diagnosis of the condition. The diagnosis rests between simple pleurisy with effusion, a large cavern, or pneumothorax with an opening. The metallic tinkliDg and the effects of succussion will distinguish pyopneumothorax from simple effusion. The gurgling will indicate the existence of a cavern. But it is more difficult to diagnose the presence or absence of a fistula. The history of the individual and of the malady is important. The sound which some hold is produced by the passage of air through the fistulous opening would, of course, be diagnostic. He also gives what he con- siders the therapeutic indications ; of these he holds the first to be para- centesis, to void as much fluid as possible, but to use no injections at the close of the operation. The following are his formal conclusions : — (1) Pneumothorax without perforation, arising as a complication of pleuritic effusions, is rare, but its occurrence is incontestable. (2) The gases which give rise to it are the result of the putrefaction of the liquid effused. (,3) It is possible to distinguish this form of pneumothorax