481 * Loc. cit. BELLADONNA. impairment of motor power. In addition to tlie above symptoms there was, after the injection of three fluid drachms of the Succus Conii, B. P., a want of adaptation of the eye. For fixed objects the sight was good, but not for bodies in motion. These effects disappeared in the course of an hour. If five or six fluid drachms of the succus be taken, more marked symptoms supervene; there is great lethargy, giddiness, hazy vision, disinclination towards muscular exertion, and dropping of the evelids. The speediness of accession of these symptoms varies with the dose. To a man, a3t. 57, a fluid ounce was given, but the giddiness and weakness came on so rapidly that he would have fallen had not assistance been rendered. In about two hours the man had quite recovered the use of his limbs. The action of hemlock is uniform and invariable in man, but it must be given in such doses as will produce a distinct physiological effect, and this effect is proportioned, not to the muscular strength, but to the motor activity of the individual; thus, those who lead a sedentary life are more affected than those of active habits, and a restless child will take, without appreciable effect, a dose of conium sufficient to paralyse an adult of indolent habits. One of the earliest indications of the action of the drug is paralysis of the third nerve, consequently ptosis and dilated pupils ; its last effect is complete obliteration of all muscular movement derived from the cerebro-spinal motor tract. In many hundred experiments no pure cerebral effects have been noticed. The urine is unaffected even when large doses have been given, nor can conia be detected in this or in any other excretion. With regard to the use of conium in disease, great stress is laid on the proposition " That a dose of hemlock, which falls far short of producing its peculiar physiological effects, is of no more use than an ordinary dose of quinine in the treatment of ague." In tetanus, chorea, epilepsy, spasmodic affections of the stomach or cesophagus, and muscular tremor, hemlock has produced very valuable effects. Dr. Harley finds most of the preparations of conium to be inert. The only preparation which retains the active principle of the drug in sufficient quantity is the succus, and this, possessing the full activity of the plant, is a most valuable medicine. The dose for an adult is from 5'ss. to 3j., according to the activity of the individual. A succus prepared from the root of Conium maculatum was almost inert. Belladonna.—Dr. Harley* also investigated this drug, and found that the effects of a " Succus Belladonna," prepared by a method similar to that which is used in making the Succus Conii, B. P., were precisely similar to those of sulphate of atropia; 30 minims of the "succus" being equal to 5^ grain of that salt. The effect was the same whether it was administered by the mouth into the stomach or when injected beneath the skin, the only difference being in the rapidity of its action. Given by the skin, the effects arc developed in a quarter of an hour or less ; given by the mouth, the operation is not fully manifested for half or three quar- ters of an hour, and sometimes later. These effects are, when the drug is given in small doses, increased frequency of the pulse, transient giddiness, dryness of the mouth, and dilatation of the pupil; sometimes