385 DISKASES OF OVUM. retrograde metamorphosis calls for more special notice. (The reporter observes that alleged retrograde metamorphosis of the decidua of tho placenta was first distinctly contested by himself in ' Proceedings of the Royal Med. and Chir. Soc.,' 1853.—li.B.). Hegar has examined twenty mature placentas. He agrees with Dohrn that there is an active new cell- formation in the maternal placenta at the end of gestation. He does not contend that the retrograde metamorphosis of the maternal placenta proceeds at an equal rate with that of the decidua vera ; but he believes (as Dr. Druitt first maintained, ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1853) that in mature labours it is always so decided as to account in a great measure for the loosening of the placenta. In twenty mature placentas he found nine had marked calcareous concretions, four with considerable and seven with slight concretions. From these concretions he distinguishes the simple white decolorations of the placental decidua, which pene- trate more or less deeply into the parenchyma, and are connected with degeneration of the villi. These are found in every placenta. Generally the fatty degeneration maintains equal progress with the concretion- formation and the decoloration. The fatty degeneration is almost con- stantly most marked at the circumference of the placenta, and diminishes thence towards the centre. (This is what Dr. Druitt described.) In six placentas the degeneration was not considerable. In the tissues there were opaque molecules. Many of the tissue-elements were quite free ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' Jan. 1867). (The reporter submits that these observations do not prove that fatty degeneration is a normal process, preparatory to the casting off of the placenta. The specimens examined were from hospital patients, and were not sound physiological speci- mens. The calcareous concretions are certainly connected with depraved constitutions, and are of pathological import—R. B.) Hydatiginous degeneration of the ovum is described by Ancelet (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1868), who thinks it due to an independent exogenous force, referable to a peculiar change of the decidua. R.Volkmann (' Virchow's Archiv,' 1868), under the title of "Interstitial Destructive Mole- formation," describes the dissection of a fatal case, in which the uterus wa3 divided into two parts by a transverse septum. The upper part showed no trace of mucous membrane, but the walls were penetrated by villi. Li the lower division the mucous membrane was swollen, injected, and both tubes opened into it. The lower division was the proper uterine cavity; the upper resulted from the parenchyma of the uterus being penetrated by the colossal molar growth. A somewhat similar case is related by Dr. v. Jarolsky and Prof. "Waldeyer (' Virchow's Archiv,' 1868). The patient also died of haemorrhages. Many of the mole- bladders were deeply buried in the uterine substance. When a section was made small bladdery villi, on long stalks, were seen in the wall. These proceeded from the inner surface of the uterus; they led into large venous vessels. Dr. Madden relates two cases of cystic disease of the ovum, and cites the opinions of various authors as to the nature and origin of the dis- ease. He inclines to the conclusion that it may arise in virgin and cha-ite women—that is, independently of degeneration of placenta. He. thinks that some cases may be accounted for on the supposition that*