174 REPORT ON L'ltACTlCAL MEDICINE. breaking down of badly formed cells, wbich are constantly being formed and constantly broken down. Mr. J. D. Brown, of Haverfordwest, writes to tbe ' Medical Times and Gazette' (Jan. 25, 1868) an account of six cases of suppression of urine, in which lie used digitalis with great success. He used it both internally and externally in the form of a poultice composed of bruised leaves. The fact is worth bearing in mind. Dr. Miller, of Dundee, records ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June, 1867) an interesting case of suppression of urine. The patient was a woman who had just been in the puerperal state, and who had exhibited slight marks of dropsy previous to her labour, but who had been brought to bed quite naturally. About three weeks after her confinement her ■water was found to be smoky, and to contain much albumen. Three days after she was worse, her urine very scanty, and there was a good deal of vomiting. Next day the urine ceased, and for thirteen days she lived without passing more than a few drops of urine. Nevertheless, she was conscious up to the last, and only once had a slight convulsion. Vomiting was excessively troublesome, and her bowels were kept freely open, -which probably relieved her system. Everything which could be suggested was tried; digitalis was freely exhibited, cream of tartar given; cantharides, like the digitalis, was used both internally and ex- ternally, but with no good result. Dr. Grainger Stewart reported pre- vious fatty change, with subsequent acute inflammation. Dr. Roberts contributes to the 'Lancet' (May 23, 1868) two cases illustrative of two kinds of suppression of urine. The one is depen- dent on disease of the secreting substance, disturbance of the circula- tion or innervation, as in Bright's disease, the algide stage of cholera, or collapse of any kind. The other is caused by obstruction in the kid- ney or the ureter. The first case is that of a child, a>t. 7, who had suffered from scarlatina. She was puffy, the skin dry, the stools fre- quent, dark and slimy, and there was frequent vomiting. Two drachms of urine had been passed in 24 hours; it was of a deep saffron colour, of oily consistence, and contained no albumen. Diaphoretics were ordered. Next day she was slightly better, but she did not continue to improve, and died in seven days from the beginning of the attack, during which time six or seven ounces of urine had been secreted, yet the patient died of pericarditis, not of suppression. The other case occurred in a man, set. 67, who had first frequent calls to urinate, then scanty micturition, ending in total suppression, which lasted three days, after which, by the aid of judicious treatment, he was able to pass 20 ounces of urine. A good deal of urine, pale and limpid, was passed after this, but finally complete suppression supervened, and the patient sank. The right kidney was atrophied of old date, the left enlarged, dark, and containing bloody urine ; a calculus was impacted in the lower portion of the ureters, and several others were also found. The bladder contained some limpid urine. Death from urseinia. Dr. Roberts draws attention to the difference in the characters of the urine in the two cases. He shows that, as the kidney is a kind of forcing pump, when the pressure is on the side of the blood, and there is no resistance on the side of the uriniferous tubes, should this condi-