PLKI'RISY. 117 and flickering, rising to 130. His lips were livid, and his face deadly pale; he had a harassing cough, and he brought up an enormous quan- tity of horribly offensive fluid, greenish in colour. The patient would not suffer his chest to be carefully examined. Stimulants had no effect in arresting the disease, and the man died in 48 hours. Both lungs were adherent to the pleura, and were of a greenish-black colour, with patches of a deeper hue, which on being cut gave forth a most fetid purulent material. The lungs were soft and friable, chiefly a dark green shreddy pulp, no part retaining its original texture. The right lung contained in its upper part a large irregular cavity. Dr. Banks thinks that many of the so-called cases of gangrenous lung are only instances of fetid pulmonic abscess, the sequels of pneumonia. He knows of no other instance where the lungs were throughout gangrenous. M. le Debardeau records (TTJnion Med.,' hi, 1867, p. 57) a curious case of ossification of the lung. The subject was a man ajt. 56, who was evidently tuberculous. His skin was warm and dry, his pulse 100; he had great dyspnoea, but no localised pain. The right side of his chest was mostly affected, being extremely dull on percussion, with crepitant and subcrepitant rales. Under the clavicle was a souffle, strongly marked, and slight gurgling, with strongly marked broncho- phony. The sputa became nummular. After death it was found that the lungs, especially the right, were extremely adherent. Beneath the second and third ribs in front was a cavern, the size of a nut, filled with pus. Surrounding it were found in the parenchyma of the lung a num- ber of plates, or other masses, apparently of bone. Ranvier showed that the bone had been formed by interstitial pneumonia, exactly as bone is formed in fibrous tissue. Some of the masses were cylindrical, having surrounded arteries. Dr. Grainger Stewart contributes to the ' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' July, 1867, a most valuable paper on dilatation of the bronchi. He first points out certain spurious forms of the disease. 1. A general dilatation, as in hooping-cough. 2. Dilatations from stricture. 3. Prom hardened lung-tissue. 4. Abscess cavities simulating dilatations. He points out two kinds of true dilatation, the reniform and the saccular, and he details the condition of each layer of the bronchus in each. He gives the contents of these dilatations as—yellow mucus, inspissated greyish-yellow material, and fetid mucus which has under- gone change. The contents may be hardened. The conditions of the surrounding lung substance are next given ; it may be unaltered, it may be soft and atrophied, it may be fibroid, it may be an abscess, or it may be gangrenous. Bronchiectasis is most common in the lower and middle lobes of the right lung. The theories as to the cause of the disease are next given, then follows its clinical history, with cases exemplifying the diseased condition. Pleurisy. Prof. Kussmaul discusses the question of paracentesis thoracis. He reports 16 cases in which the operations were performed for pleurisy, empyema, and pyopneumothorax. He says that the reason why the