475 BAOBAB. KOUSSIN. the hopes entertained of it hy its discoverer, aud, indeed, it appears to he doubtful whether the substance prepared by Dr. Eichardson's process is anything but a mixture of chloroform with other and more inert sub- stances. Certain it is that much of the bichloride of commerce is nothing more than diluted chloroform. The use of protoxide of nitrogen has given rise to lively discussions. The opponents of its use say that the phy- siological state it induces is that of impending asphyxia, whilst those who favour its use would assign to it a widely different action. Its chief advantages appear to be the rapidity with which unconsciousness is induced, the very transitory nature of the anaesthesia produced, and the absence of unpleasant after-effects. The following notes are taken from some of the principal papers having reference to the determination of the active principle of various medicinal substances: Messrs. T. and H. Smith* have extracted from opium a new alkaloid, to which they assign the name cryptopia. This base has been obtained from the drug in only very small quantities, four or five tons of the drug having yielded not more than five ounces of cryptopia. This sub- stance possesses the same strongly alkaline properties as morphia, codeia, and thebaia; from all of which, however, it is readily distin- guished by the beautiful blue colour it yields when treated with strong sulphuric acid, and by the gelatinous form which all its salts assume when their solutions are cooled. Another constituent of opium—papa- verine—also strikes a blue colour with concentrated sulphuric acid; but in this case the tint is much fainter, and the addition of a fragment of nitrate of potash to the mixture changes the blue into an orange colour, whereas cryptopia, under similar circumstances, affords a green colour. The formula CLjILgNOg has been assigned to cryptopia by Dr. Cook, late of King's College. It appears to be quite distinct from Pelletier's pseudomorpbia, though in some of its properties it resembles this body. Baobab.—M. Martin has recently examined the leaves and bark of this gigantic tree {Adansonia digitatd), first described by Adansonf, which grows in Senegal to an enormous size, some specimens measuring eighty feet in circumference. The decoction and the infusion of the leaves are in high estimation as febrifuges and intermittents. The baobab tree belongs to the natural order Malvaceae. From it M. Martin has extracted an alkaloid, which he names Adansonine, and thinks that the peculiar medicinal properties of the tree are due to the presence of this substance. M. Martin states that Adansonine is an efficient substi- tute for quinine, though it exists in the bark of the baobab tree in too small proportion to admit of profitable extraction. Koussin.—Dr. BedallJ recommends the employment of this, the active principle of kousso, in preference to the crude drug. Panesi, who first prepared koussin or taeniin, fell into the error of supposing that it is found only in the pollen of the plant; but Bedall, by a process similar to that employed for the extraction of santonin, has ob- tained it not only from the pollen, but also in abundance from the stalks * ' Pharm. Journ.,' fffi, p. 595. + ' Cull. Gen. de Ther.,' lxxii, p. 360. X ' Bayer arztl. Intel. Dl.,' 1867, No. 4; ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 134, p. 17.