SYPHILIS. 45 injections, was necessary to the cure. In patients who had undergone a previous four weeks' treatment with sarsaparilla, only 2 grs., in nine injections, were needed. Women only required %\ grs. of the sublimate when used alone; when iodide of potash also was used, they required gr.; when sarsaparilla was used, 2% grs.; when chlorate of potash was used, 2± grs. Mercurial affections of the mouth were noticed in 195 out of the 500 patients; the salivation lasted, on the average, seven days. As regards the comparative frequency of relapses after the bichlo- ride injections, as compared with other plans of treatment, Lewin calcu- lates that these accidents occurred in 3 8 per cent, of all the cases treated by mercurial injection, and that this proportion is 44 per cent, less than the frequency of relapses after the ordinary mercurial and vegetable treatment. In the cases treated with injection alone the number of relapses amounted to only 31 per cent. The symptoms were severe in oulv 3 out of 89 cases. G-riinfeld also communicates ('Archiv f. Dermatologie u. Syphilis') some observations on the use of subcutaneous injection of corrosive sublimate for the cure of syphilis. He had twenty-five cases. The local irritative symptoms were of very little consequence. There was no abscess in any case, but if the solution was too concentrated there is a tendency to gangrene of the cellular tissue. He recommends the injection to be made either at the'chest, the hypochondrium, the back, or the nates. It should not be done in the neighbourhood of lymphatic glands. The best places for producing a quick effect on the system are those where the skin is thinnest. Grunfeld recommends the injection to be made daily, or in a few cases twice a day; he pushes the syringe deeply. "When this is done no unpleasant irritation follows. Dr. J. Purdon, of Belfast, recommends the use of sulphurous acid spray for syphilitic ulcers of the larynx. In a case which he reports he applied the acid three times a day, putting the end of the spray-tube quite near the ulcers, and injecting seven minutes at a time. The ulcers were healed in twenty days. He also has applied the same method in syphilitic affections of the tongue with the best results. Mr. Holmes Coote relates the successful results of carbolic acid treatment in the following cases:—(1) A girl, suffering from white discharge and numerous mucous tubercles on the external labia, was rapidly cured by the use of a solution of five grains of the acid in an ounce of water. (2) Another girl, with the same affection more severely developed, had a solution of equal parts carbolic acid and water applied daily with a brush, besides the application of the weaker solution on a rag; she was cured in twelve days. (3) A similar case was cured in fourteen days; in this case there was no considerable pain. The critic who reports this case in the ' Archiv' remarks that he has obtained no good results from the use of the acid for mucous tubercles. He also finds that a great deal of pain is given, even by much weaker solutions. The treatment of syphilis, especially in regard to the use or disuse of mercury, has excited great discussion lately in France. A paper by