467 SUFFOCATION. the circumscribed spots of ecchymosis characteristic of death from suf- focation. Ecchymosis undistingushahlo from that of suffocation may be produced by very severe injuries causing great disturbance in the mechanical processes of respiration, or paralysing movement, though a kind of struggle takes place, and the individual, who cannot breathe, finds himself in a condition analogous to that of suffocation. Such injuries are crushing, falls from great heights producing fractures of the ribs, rupture of the diaphragm, and injuries to the spinal cord. Here there is no obstacle to the entrance of air into the respiratory passages, but rather paralysis of the agents of respiration. The diagnosis in these cases is easy. Over and above the ecchymosis there will be numerous external and internal lesions. In conclusion, Tardieu says that it is his firm conviction that, with one reserve which he mentions, the above changes, and chiefly extrava- sations disseminated beneath the pleura and hairy scalp, in whatever degree and however few in number they may be, suffice to demonstrate positively that death has occurred from suffocation. AYith these lesions there are often, though not constantly, associated, ecchymoses beneath the pericardium, rupture of some superficial pulmonary vesicles, and the presence of a fine white or rosy froth in the air-passages. Along with these there mav be various external marks of violence, such as flattening of the nose and lips, excoriation of the face, &c. Prof. Limau* says that these dicta of Tardieu's cannot be too ener- getically repudiated, and adduces from his own experience many cases which refute them. Having critically examined each of Tardieu's assertions, Liman comes to these conclusions:—That there is no specific internal appearance which enables us to distinguish between hanging, strangulation, smothering, and throttling. A bloody mark of the ligature is sometimes observable in both hauging and strangulation. AVhere an effusion of blood has occurred, either in the course of the ligature or in its neighbourhood, it may be concluded that force has been applied to the neck other than the instrument of strangulation. If the neck be encircled by a ligature and this is allowed to remain on the corpse, no mummified or excoriated mark of strangulation will be exhibited except when the skin has been simultaneously broken. M. Ssabinskit criticises Tardieu's test very sharply. Under the term " suffocation," the latter includes the death of a patient from con- finement in a limited space (which, as Ssabinski points out, is rather a kind of poisoning), whilst he excludes hanging, drowning, and strangu- lation. In 27 cases of suffocation as thus defined, Ssabinski has found punctated ecchymoses on the heart in only one case, and then they were present in very inconsiderable quantity. This was a case of death from compression of the chest and abdomen. He adduces evidence showing that Casper and Maschka had noticed these ecchymoses before Tardieu described them, and that those observers, whilst fully recognising their value as evidence of death from suffocation, did not consider them as * ' Horn's Vierteljahrsschr.,' viii, p. 278. t 'Russ. Arch, f. gcrichtl. Med.,' Murz., 1865 ; trans, in 'Horn's Vierteljahrsschr.,' vi, p. 140.