498 REPORT OX PUBLIC HEALTH. portion of the solid residue of the exploded powder. Want of space forbids us entering upon the arguments and facts on which Dr. Poleck grounds his views. In order to avoid the ill effects of the powder-gases, he recommends the liberal use of slaked lime in the pits. Contagiousness of'carbuncular affections.—M. Gallard contributes an able article on this question,* and contends against the belief, much more prevalent in France than in this country, that carbuncular affec- tions and malignant pustule are always the result of contagion. He quotes several cases in which it is clear that contagion or inoculation with the virus of the affection would appear to have been impossible. M. Gallard thinks, in opposition to the views of the great majority of French physicians, that inoculation or contagion should be shown in order to prove that malignant pustule never arises except through such agencies, and that contagion ought not to be rashly assumed when it cannot be proved that this was quite out of the question. Phthisis.—Dr. Bergeret t contends that the air which proceeds from the lungs of the phthisical is the vehicle that transports the tuberculous elements from the diseased to the healthy body, and that the trans- mission of pulmonar3r phthisis may be prevented by measures of private and public hygiene. Disease in masons.—M. FeltzJ thus concludes an article upon this subject:—(i) The penetration of impalpable organic or inorganic dust into the lungs cannot be denied. (2) Such dust sets up inflammatory action, which almost always leads to pulmonary cirrhosis, sometimes to ulceration of the pulmonary parenchyma, and to tuberculosis if the individual be predisposed to this. (3) Thanks to the microscope, it is easy to distinguish between the tuberculous nodules, the cirrhotic nodules, and the nodes of tubercular pneumonia. Dr. Headlam Greenhow's inves- tigations, and the ingenious method by which he was enabled to detect siliceous particles in the lungs by a chemical process, will suggest them- selves to the minds of our readers. Cellar dwellings.—Dr. Lehnerdt, of Berlin, in an article on the cellar dwellings of that city,§ recommends a cubic space of nearly 550 cubic feet for each adult inhabitant of such dwellings, and for children under ten years of age half that cubic space. Dr. Mapother states in his recently published new edition of his work on public health || that in Dublin it has been thought advisable not to insist upon more than 300 cubic feet of breathing space for each adult. MM. Eobinet and Barreswill, in their 'Eeport of the Commission on Insalubrious Lodgings for 1862—recommend the use of the thermometer in deter- mining the salubrity of underground habitations. It is well known * 'Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxix, p. 5. t IWd„ xxviii, p. 312. X Ibid., xxvii, p. 174. § ' Vierteljahrsschr. f. gericht. u. offent. Med.,' viii, p. 2-;o. || 'Lectures on Public Health/ 2nd edition, 1867, p. 310. «|[ Vide review in * Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxx, p. 195.