ILEPOET ON SURGERY. Thero are so many kinds of gunshot injury to which it is applicable, and for which amputation of the thigh is now practised—cases of lace- ration at the upper part of the leg on its posterior aspect, preventing the formation of an underflap cut from the calf on the old plan ; pene°- tratiug wounds of the articulation by bullets when the end of the femur lias only received superficial injury ; fractures at the upper part of the tibia complicated with lesion of the principal blood-vessels or involvin" its articular surface—that, if it be adopted, I anticipate a considerable saving of life will result; on the one hand, by proportionably avoiding the high rate of mortality accompanying amputations of the thigh ; and ou the other hand, from the intrinsic safety of the operation, according to Mr. Carden's plan." In the 'American Journal of the Med. Sc.' for April, 1868, will be found an elaborate paper by Dr. Briuton, of Philadelphia, embracing all the points connected with this operation—its mortality, its indica- tions, the usefulness of, the stump, and the various circumstances under which it has been practised in America and elsewhere. The conclusions of the writer are, on the whole, highly favorable to this amputation. On amputation of the thigh, witli a flap containing the patella.—In the ' Annali Universali de Medicina,' 200, p. 368, will be found a paper by Dr. Melchiorj, of Salt), on the advantages of preserving the patella in the anterior nap of the amputation of the thigh. The cases related in this paper are 3 in number. In the first the amputation was performed on account of a malignant tumour in the calf of the leg. The limb was amputated through the knee-joint (the first case of the kind, as its author believes, in Italy). The recovery was somewhat retarded by necrosis of the articular cartilages of the femur, but the patient was well in forty-two days, and the stump would have been most useful. However, the cancerous tumours recurred in the abdominal viscera, and she died \\ months after the operation. The patella was found deprived of its cartilage, and bound down by adhesions in the inter- condyloid notch, so as to have little mobility. The skin of the flap adhered to the condyles. The next case was that of a man injured in a railway accident. Here it was proposed to have amputated below the spine of the tibia, but the injury of the bones was found to extend into the knee-joint; and as one of the femoral condyles was fractured, it became necessary to saw the femur through at the level of the condyles. The anterior flap sloughed, and recovery was very slow. Ultimately, after much exfoliation of bone,-the patella became anchylosed to the outer part of the femur; the lower end of that bone became re- duced in volume by atrophy and exfoliation, the cicatrix was adherent to the bone, and at first extremely prone to ulceration. An artificial limb was applied, taking its bearing from the ischium, the stump being used merely in raising the limb, and with this the patient walked ex- tremely well. He was last seen about five years after the amputation The author contrasts the result of this case with that of three cases in which the thigh had been amputated by the ordinary flap or circular methods, to show how much more power this patient had of moving his