18 ItEPOET ON PHYSIOLOGY. cord between the occiput and the atlas, the blood-pressure in the vessels rapidly falling, owing to the paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves and the consequent enlargement of the vessels. If, on the contrary, the peripheric cut extremities of the splanchnics are irritated, the vaso-motor nerves effect the contraction of the vessels, and the pressure of the blood in their interior rises. Further, if after the division of the splanchnics irritation be applied to the inferior cut surface of the spinal cord in the occipito- atloid region, either no effects are observed or they are very inconsider- able ; hence it is obvious that the increase of pressure in the vessels is not due to the direct influence of the nervous system on the heart, causing that organ to contract with unusual energy. But besides the increase of pressure in the vessels an influence is exerted upon the heart, and this in- fluence is apparent by the increase in the frequency of its beats. The ques- tion arises, is this the result of the direct action of the nervous system on the heart? M. Cyon answers in the affirmative, and ha3 shown by ex- perimental evidence that there is a special cardiac accelerator nerve, which emerges from the spinal cord with the third branch of the inferior cervical ganglion. And this is not the only point that M. Cyon has elucidated. It has long been known that the interior of the cavities of the heart is sensitive, and M. Claude-Bernard showed that the contact of a ther- mometer-bulb with the internal surface of the ventricles caused consider- able acceleration of the movements, which can only be explained by attributing it to a reflex action on the accelerator nerve. But besides this M. Cyon has shown that the sensory nerves of the heart can exert a reflex action on the motor nerves of the blood-vessels, effecting dilatation of their calibre and diminution of the blood-pressure. This channel or circuit he carefully examined, and arrived at the following conclusion:—That in the rabbit there exists a nerve which usually arises by two roots—one from the trunk of the pneumoga>;tric, the other from the superior laryngeal nerve. It descends by the side of the carotid artery and the sympathetic nerve, from which it is always distinct. On entering the chest it com- municates with branches from the first thoracic ganglion, and is lost in the substance of the heart, or rather in the dense connective tissue between the aorta and pulmonary artery. . If this nerve be divided as it descends in the neck, irritation of the lower cut surface is followed by no observable phenomena; whilst irritation of the upper cut surface occasions pain, and induces a diminution of pressure in the carotids amounting to from five to six centimetres as measured by the manometer, and this even in animals under the influence of woorara, when no movements were present to obscure or modify the result. That its agency was not exerted directly on the heart was shown by its continuing even when all the cardiac nerves were destroyed by the galvano-caustic method, and hence it seems to be certain that the reflex action is exerted on the peripheric vascular system, which conclusion is fully borne out by the fact that if the splanchnics are divided no de- pression of the blood-pressure in the arteries is any longer observed. Hence this nerve may be called the depressor nerve. M. Claude-Ber- nard* remarks upon these facts that the heart is able, with the aid of the * From whose report, in the 'Cours Scientifiques,' 1868, p. 421, the above condensed summary is taken.