REPORT ON SURGERY. Gimbernat's ligament, so as to rupture it subcutaneously, but it could not be felt. Operation became necessary; and after the stricture was exposed, it was ruptured with the finger and the intestine reduced. The patient recovered. The sixth case was one of old femoral hernia of considerable size, strangulated for seventy-six hours. The symptoms were grave, and from these, and from the smell of the patient's breath, Prof. Larghi concluded that the intestine was gangrenous. The patient was a woman twenty-one years of age. The hernia was found to be easily reducible. After reduction Prof. Larghi, with great trouble and after considerable violence, succeeded in rupturing the femoral ring. He then made an incision through the skin and the superficial fat, which had been contused in these proceedings. The object apparently was to avoid further strangulation, and to allow of the formation of an arti- ficial anus. The patient remained in a doubtful condition for some days, with a hernial tumour presenting in the wound, repeated vomiting, constant hiccough, and other severe symptoms; ultimately she was relieved by copious defecation and the passage of some lumbrici, and recovered completely, but with a large hernia. The last case was one of recent femoral hernia in a man of sixty-five, caused by an accident, and strangulated immediately on its appearance, a space of ninety-six hours. An intestino-omental hernia was diagnosed, and it was believed that gangrene was impending. There were, however, no symptoms of faecal extravasation. Ordinary taxis having failed, the thumb was driven beneath the lower column of the crural arch, and this was rup- tured. Now, the hernial tumour was reduced in size by one third on compression. The intestine was thought to be reduced, leaving the omentum. Next day, the tumour having resumed its former size, the part previously ruptured was still further lacerated. The day after, the tumour was easily reducible, but reappeared immediately on pressure being removed. Two days afterwards a faecal abscess formed, and for some time all the motions passed by the artificial anus. The patient recovered, but with fcecal fistula. Prof. Larghi regrets in this case that he made any attempts at all to reduce the hernia, and he thinks that after having ruptured the ring with his fingers he ought to have incised the superficial parts as in the preceding case. In this way he believes the formation of faecal abscess would have been rendered less probable, aud its extent, if it did form, would have been limited. Radical cure of inguinal liernia in an infant.—In the ' Med. Times and G-azette,' Aug. 8, 1867, Dr. Payrer, of Calcutta, relates the case of a native boy, aet. 3g, in whom he operated for the radical cure of a large inguinal hernia. The operation is thus described: " On April 30 I operated by introducing a wooden plug, thus invagi- nating the scrotum into the inguinal canal. This was secured by two silk ligatures, which were introduced separately, perforating the abdo- minal wall near the internal ring a little apart, but, emerging through the same aperture in the integument, were firmly knotted over a small piece of wood, thus securing the plug, to the apex of which they were attached, firmly in the inguinal canal, the end of the plug pressing against the internal ring. The operation was performed under the