TUMOURS OK ORBIT AND EYELIDS. 34-5 upper border of the staphyloma, and brings it out, nearly on the same level, on the vortical lino passing by the nasal border. The same needle is entered near its point of exit, and brought out on the middle line, four and a half millimetres below the staphyloma. The same manoeuvre is repeated on the outer side. The staphyloma is then ex- cised, and the threads are tightened and tied, so that the folds of con- junctiva close the wound like the mouth of a purse. The results have been satisfactory. The author lastly describes two cancroid episcleral Growths, after removal of which he covered the exposed surfaces by con- junctival llaps. No recurrence has taken place. He insists on the necessity of bandaging both eyes, after plastic operations, until union has taken place. M. Herrgott* relates an interesting case of the successful treatment of a large nsevus, on the side of the nose and on the lower eyelid of an infant seven months old, by introducing fine sticks of pate cle Canquoin into its substance. Most of the ordinary modes of treatment had pre- viously been tried without success. The caustic was made into sticks that precisely fitted a small canula, which, with its trocar, was thrust into the tumour. The trocar being withdrawn, the caustic stick was pushed into the canula, and this withdrawn, leaving the caustic behind. The stick was then cut oft" at the level of the skin. Three such punc- tures were made in a direction from below upwards and from without inwards, along the base of the growth, on the 15th of November. There was but little bleeding, not much pain, and very slight reaction. On the 9th of December two more punctures were made, at right angles to the former ones, and filled in the same manner. The nasvus shrivelled up, and became transformed into fibrous tissue, aud the child was discharged cured on the 27th of December. The contraction of the growth had not influenced the position of the eyelids, and the result was all that could be wished. The histories of many tumours are recorded. A robust and healthy country woman, 45 years old, presented herself to Prof. Gr. Borelli,t of Modena, with the following statement:—She had received a blow on her head, and was confined to bed for some twelve days with headache and feverishness. "When better, she found that the sight of her left eye was impaired, and she suffered from orbital pains and diplopia, with in- flammation and hypertrophy of the conjunctiva at the external angle. She was treated for some months by scarification and other means, but the swelling constantly increased. Borelli satisfied himself of the ex- istence of an orbital tumour; and having first freely divided the tissues at the outer angle, lie carefully dissected down until the growth was exposed. He found it to be intimately united with the sclerotic, and to extend from near the corneal margin to the posterior part of the globe. The union with the sclerotic was so close as to lead to the belief that the tumour might be structurally connected with that mem- brane ; but by adduction of the eye and careful exploration the margin of the growth was found, and the whole was removed. The growth wa.s oblong, flattened, fully three centimetres long by one broad, and * 'Gaz. Medicalc de Strasbourg,' 1868. t ' Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano,' 1867.