288 REPORT ON SURGERY. "Lastly, whether the principle be adjudicated as a new one, or simply as the revival of an old one, long lost and unjustly neglected, we derive, as a practical deduction from our cases, corroborated and confirmed by subsequent cases of others herein mentioned, the ever-safe conservative precept, that no hand, wrist, forearm, or elbow; no foot, ankle, leg, or knee, should ever be amputated for excessive or destructive inflammation, especially those cases resulting from traumatic causes— without resorting, whenever the state of the patient will admit of it, to a previous experimental ligation of the artery supplying the affected region. *' In extremities already condemned to amputation, if time be allowed, the procedure can certainly do no harm ; on the other hand, it will often save a useful limb, or at least contribute to a more rapid healing of the stump." In the ' Gazette des H6p.,' 1867, p. 114, will be found a case under M. Nekton's care in which compression of the brachial artery was used with apparent good effects in inflammation of the hand, after a lacerated wound necessitating amputation of a finger. In the ' Gazette des Hop.,' 1867, p. 545, Signor Vanzetti relates a case in which he was summoned to a man with acute inflammation of the hand, after a wound inflictedjn extracting a calf. The patient was in a state of great prostration and fever; and everything became changed, the local condition became healthy and the general state much improved by 24 hours' continuous compression of the brachial artery. This was followed by complete recovery. In the same journal, p. 557, will be found a case by the same author of cure by digital compression in a case of malignant pustule of the hand. The following strong opinion of Neudorfer, given in a report on the surgical diseases of the garrison of Prague, is quoted in the ' Lancet' for Dec. 7, 1867 : " In the external idiopathic inflammations, and in those which follow operations, we have entirely abandoned the ordinary antiphlogistic treatment—bloodletting, calomel, nitre, &c.; and, as a unique treat- ment, we have employed only the digital compression. Tried in over 100 cases, we have acquired the conviction that it surpasses in efficacy every other treatment; the heat, the redness, the pain, are removed soon, even in employing only intermittent compression. Thus the digital compression proposed by Prof. Vanzetti is ever acquiring more confidence and credit. We believe that we ought to recommend it very warmly. It serves, moreover, in many cases, to diminish very copious purulent secretions." The 'Lancet' also reported a case of severe traumatic inflammation of the hand, under the care of Mr. Moore, at the Middlesex Hospital, iu which the compression of the artery was procured by acupressure. The treatment here was quite successful. In a letter to the ' Brit. Med. Journ.' Mr. Maunder speaks as follows : —"Twelve months ago I proposed the application of a ligature to the superficial femoral artery to check acute inflammation of the limb fol- lowing wound of the knee-joint. The operation was performed with