423 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Dr. P. J. Behrend (loc. cit.) discusses the school as a focus for the spread of contagious diseases. The nutrition and care of infants is also carefully discussed in a series of aphorisms, by Dr. Hauner, in a report of the Munich Children's Hos- pital (loc. cit.). Prof. Drachinann, of Copenhagen ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868) dis- cusses the physical education of girls, and the hygiene of girls' schools. The "Second Yearly Report of the Prague Poundling," by Dr. Gr. von Rittershaiui, is an interesting account of the experience of that institution (' Prag. Yiertelj. f. prakt. Heilkund,' 1868). Dr. A. Briinniche gives ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868) a clinical report of the Children's Hospital at Copenhagen for 1866. Dr. Abelin (loc. cit.) gives a report of the Stockholm Children's Hospital for 1865. These reports are chiefly numerical. Henoch ('Beitriige z. Kinderheilk.,' 1868) contributes observations on congenital syphilis. He observed six cases in the second year of life, which he regarded as relapsing. The first signs, having appeared in the earliest months, and having been incompletely healed, had re- appeared after a more or less protracted interval. In several of these children signs of rickets had appeared. In three cases of older children the disease seemed with great probability to be traced to direct infec- tion. A chdd, three years old, had condylomata on the arms and vulva, •which had been known to be quite healthy three months before, and had been nursed by a woman who had been in hospital for syphilis. The other cases were similar. The fact that syphilis may remain latent in the mother's system many years, and then suddenly declare itself on the birth of a syphilitic child, was proved in two cases. A mother of a child ten weeks old, obviously suffering from hereditary syphilis, and who had already borne three healthy children, and then had aborted three times, confessed that she had been infected by her husband in the first year of marriage. In another case the husband had an unhealed primary syphilis when he married. The first child, born a year afterwards, had repeatedly swell- ings on the tibia?, and when seventeen years old had a considerable periostosis of the left humerus. The mother herself during twenty years of married life had repeated angina and swellings in the knees, cured by iodine. During this time she bore two quite healthy children, then aborted several times, until in the twentieth year she had a boy which, fourteen days after birth, showed marked symptoms of heredi- tary syphilis, which after a long time was overcome by mercury. Dr. Huber contributes ('Deutsh. Arch. f. Klin. Med.,' 1868) obser- vations on disease of the suprarenal capsules in congenital syphilis. This condition has been little noticed. Barensprung says that after the liver and lungs the capsules were most affected. Huber relates a case of a syphilitic child that died when fourteen days old of diarrhoea and pro- gressive algidity. The body was extremely emaciated. The lungs were expanded. In the lower lobes of one lung was a yellow thick knot the size of a hemp-seed. The suprarenal capsules were large, greyish outside, translucent, thick, with numerous white, irregularly shapen spot3 interspersed in the capsular substance. At the posterior surface