317 PERSISTENT PRIAPISM. bladder being freely divided, so that two fingers could be passed into that viscus. Nothing abnormal was felt in the bladder. The relief was considerable, the last report of the case being as follows : " His present state, just two months after the operation, is as follows: —He reports himself as infinitely relieved; he gets about the house ; his appetite good; sleeps well; he has, however, four or five attacks of spasm every twenty-four hours, which do not continue more than a few minutes. He bears the passage of a full-sized bougie without any incon- venience, and even its presence in the bladder for some time. A small superficial fistula has formed at the anus, which is being treated, without cutting, by Dr. Chasseaud. The wound of the operation has been com- pletely healed some time—in fine, though not completely cured as yet, he is much pleased at the good results already achieved by the opera- tion. The capacity of the bladder is still very limited; he must pass urine every half hour at farthest, but he is slowly improving in thia respect." The urethra after Holt's operation.—At a recent meeting of the Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Society Dr. Alexander Miller showed the bladder and urethra of a man who had suffered from stricture for many years. The stricture was "ruptured" according to Mr. Holt's method. The case proceeded perfectly satisfactorily till about a fort- night after the operation, when the patient became ill and died of ob- struction of the bowels, from a double twist on the ileum. The prepa- ration showed the urethra without a trace of stricture or injury, eighteen days after the "rupture" of the stricture—a remarkable testimony to the efficacy and safety of Mr. Holt's operation. In the ' British Medical Journal,' Eeb. i, 1868, Mr. B. W. Eichardson, of Dublin, describes and figures a modification, which he proposes, of Holt's (or as he contends it should be called, Perreve's) stricture- dilator. This modification consists in suppressing the central con- ducting rod of that instrument, and substituting for the conical forcing rod one constructed on the " dovetail" principle, which travels in a deep groove worked in the lower blade of the dilator. The advantage claimed is that the instrument is less exposed to the risk of " buckling." Phimosis.—A method of gradual dilatation in cases of phimosis, where the patient will not submit to operation, or where there are chancres underneath, and the surgeon is apprehensive of syphilitic ulceration, is described in the ' Union Medicale,' 1867, ii, p. 422, from an American surgeon, Dr. Elliott Cones, in the ' Med. and Surg. Eeporter.' It consists in distending the parts gradually with the branches of an ordinary forceps introduced between the prepuce and glans, bathing the parts with warm water. In this way, by three hours of gradual dilatation, this surgeon has succeeded in exposing concealed chancres. A special form of forceps is also described as applicable in such cases. Persistent priapism. By Mr. Birkett, ' Lancet,' Eeb. 16, 1867.— Cases of persistent priapism are exceedingly rare. Many writers on