REPORT ON SURGERY. 296 sations in the tumour were diminished, but they were perfectly regular. It was, however, impossible to say whether the diminution of the pul- sations were not due to the collapsed state of the patient. The man was returned to his bed, and the Carte's compressor readjusted over the artery. "When the effects of the chloroform had completely passed off he complained of coldness and numbness of the legs, with soreness in the belly. At seven o'clock in the evening, finding that all pulsa- tion had ceased in the aneurism, the man himself removed the com- pressor. The house-surgeon was at once sent for, and he found that there was no longer any pulsation in the tumour. Since that time the man has continued to improve. With the exception of some feeling of soreness in the belly, which lasted for about thirty-six hours, the patient suffered no inconvenience from the treatment.; " Oct. 17.—The aneurismal sac is now felt as a hard oval mass ; the artery which leads to it pulsates strongly, but all impulse ceases at the upper edge of the tumour." Pitha, cure of a cirsoid aneurism by injection of perchloride of iron. Quoted in the ' Graz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 51, from the 'Alg. Med. Central Zeitung.'—A young boy was affected with a cirsoid aneurism of con- siderable dimensions on the left side of the head. The occipital, poste- rior, auricular, and temporal arteries were greatly dilated, to the size of a quill. The temporal and occipital presented sacs as large as a nut; the auricular was enormous, of a violet colour, easily displaced, pul- sating very strongly. Compression was tried by means of a circular spring with pads ; but it produced oedema, and though the tumour was reduced in size, it was necessary to leave it off. Then it was deter- mined to try the injection of perchloride of iron. A clot was formed, the tissue became hard, some points suppurated, and the tumour diminished. After ten injections there remained only a little dilata- tion of the capillaries. The occipital, which resisted the longest, still presented some pulsation. Ligature of various arteries. The aorta.—In the * American Journal of Med. Science,' Oct. 1868, p. 413, is the account of another case of ligature of the abdominal aorta, which, like all the previous operations on this vessel, proved fatal. The operator was Dr. MeGuire, of Bichinond.Ya. The operation was undertaken with the view of tying the common iliac, but the aneurism extended too high. The sac was ruptured during the operation, but the haemorrhage ceased when the vessel was secured. The patient lived about twelve hours. The subclavian.—A case of ligature of both subclavian arteries for axillary aneurism, at an interval of three years, with perfect success, is related by Mr. Turner, of Brighton, in the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' li, p. 163. Distal ligature in aortic aneurism.—"With reference to the case under Mr. Heath's care, reported at p. ,3°9 of our former Eetrospect, where that surgeon tied the subclavian and carotid arteries for supposed in-