TORSION AND ACUPRESSURE. 205 1. Complete removal of secondary cancerous deposit from a gland in the neck. 2. Eapid absorption of inflammatory deposit over and round an immense mass of strumous gland. 3. Slow removal of said gland. 4. Immediate check to the growth of a tumour composed of an aggre- gation of strumous glands. 5. Considerable cutaneous and subcutaneous inflammation in the same case, with softening and breaking up of the diseased glands. 6. Decided absorption of inflammatory effusions round primary scir- rhus of mammary region. 7. Diminution and softening of a very firm fibrous growth attached to the periosteum. All these results, except No. 3, were obtained in from 3 to 6 days, and all the cases had previously been submitted to a variety of treat- ment without benefit. Special results of a peculiar nature were observed as follows : 8. The zinc plate on the skin showed the usual tendency to decom- pose the skin and produce ulcerations in a few hours. 9. Perforated zinc, employed to obviate this, produced phlyctense and pustules in the interspaces not covered by it. 10. Silver, whether as foil or plated on copper, produced redness of the skin, but with less rapid tendency to ulceration. 11. Copper plates were comparatively slow to act on skin in con- nexion with the negative pole; but the copper connected with the posi- tive pole on one occasion blistered the skin severely when a very strong battery was used. Torsion and acupressure.—In the ' Lancet,' July 6, 1867, and 'Brit. Med. Jour.,'April 18,1868, will be found short notes of lectures addressed to his class by Mr. Syme, on the subject of treatment of wounds with aview to primary union. Adopting entirely M. Pasteur's views, and the treat- ment by the application of carbolic acid which Mr. Lister has founded upon those views, Mr. Syme proceeds to say that, although he has used torsion of arteries in many cases ever since the time of M. Amussat (whom he regards as the introducer of this method of treat- ment), yet in all operations and injuries in which there was risk of blood and bloody fluid collecting in the cavity of the wound he has always hitherto preferred the ligature, in order to avoid the risks fol- lowing on the decomposition of such fluid by the action of the air, since the ligatures act as drains along which the bloody fluid oozes out from the wound. Now, however, that those risks have been obviated by the introduction of the carbolic acid as an antiseptic, Mr. Syme believes that it is quite justifiable to trust to torsion alone, and to close the wound at once ; and he mentions, in the more recent of the two lectures re- ferred to, that in all the operations performed during the previous winter course no ligature had been applied except to the femoral artery; while, in all the amputations of arms, legs, and feet, the excisions of joints, the removal of tumours, and other operations, during the same period, there had not been a fatal result. Mr. Syme warmly denies