.319 i'i:i;sisTi:xT rniaimsm. April.—Suppuration continued, rather profusely at times, during this month, and about the middle of it an incision was made in the left crus penis behiud the scrotum, in order that the pus might escape more readily by gravitation. This was attended with beneficial results ; and although the man was low and his reparative powers were much reduced, in spite of a generous diet and tonics, he seemed likely to be soon well. May.—In the early part of this month the man was rather suddenly seized with great constitutional disturbance, which resembled the com- mencement of an attack of pyaainia. It seemed, however, to be pro- duced by some local inflammatory action, for after a more profuse escape of pus from the perineal opening the man rallied. From this date (about the middle of May) he gradually improved in health, the dis- charge of pus diminished, and he left the hospital on June 9th, well. At the time of his exit the penis was of normal size. The recovery of this patient would have taken place about the middle of February, or in about a month after the extravasation of blood occurred, had not suppuration arisen, to which cause his protracted convalescence must be referred. From the moment of his admission Mr. Birkett determined to treat the case on the principle adopted in all swellings resulting from extravasation of blood; that is, to leave the repair of the injury to the efforts of nature, and not to interfere with the process of absorption. The man, however, complained so bitterly of the pain caused by the distension of the organ, that the incision was made for the purpose of affording relief mechanically—a practice Mr. Birkett would not again adopt. The first case was recorded by Mr. Callaway in 1824. (' London Medical Bepository,' 1824, p. 286.) The man was forty-four years old, and, whilst intoxicated, had connection with his wife. The state of the penis was exactly similar to that above described ; and the priapism had continued unchanged for sixteen days, when Mr. Callaway made an opening into the left crus penis below the scrotum, and a large quantity of dark, grumous blood with Bmall coagula escaped. The corpora cavernosa were emptied, and a few days afterwards the man was able to follow his work. The second case i3 published in the 'Lancet' of July, 1845, and is described by Mr. John W. Tripe, of Hackney, under whose treatment be continued for four days, and was then admitted into the London Hospital, under the care of Mr. Luke. The man was a sailor, set. 26. The priapism continued after frequent connection, and was persistent for about four months. In course of time the blood appears to have been absorbed, and the functions of the organ to have become perfectly restored. This man left the hospital after being therein only ten days, and the further progress towards recovery was unassisted by surreal art. To these another may be added which was recently in St. Mary's Hospital, under the care of Dr. Handfield Jones, and in which, after persistence of the symptoms for a month, relief was obtained by an Bcision made by Mr. Ilaynes Walton into the corpus cavernosum of one side.