453 POISONING. aud eyes, where the paralysis was incomplete. The movements of de- glutition were very laboured, the contractions of the heart and dia- phragm much retarded, and this appeared to be the case also with the intestines, since stimulating enemata acted very slowly. Four hours after taking the poison the pulse was .39, full and hard. The respiration was in proportion to the cardiac contractions. A marked mucous rattle was heard in the throat. "When the paralysis had reached its climax, the breathing became stertorous and the extremities icy cold. Twenty hours after swallowing the nitro-glycerine the pulse was 70 ; it then rose to 90, and tbe paralysis had almost completely disappeared. Gas- tric catarrh followed, but the patient recovered in a few days. Dr. Werber,* in view of the importance which nitro-glycerine is assuming as a toxic agent, has devised means for its detection. Nitro- glycerine can readily be extracted from animals poisoned by it and from organic mixtures by shaking these with ether, chloroform, or benzol; and as the poison appears to resist decomposition, and the tests for it are of extreme delicacy, its presence is not likely to be overlooked. Two tests are proposed—the one dependent on the fact that several nitro-compounds (nitro-glycerine, pyroxylene, nitro-mannite, and nitro-amylene) yield a beautiful red coloration when treated with aniline and concentrated sulphuric acid, whilst other nitro-compounds (nitro-benzol, nitro-glycyrrhizine) do not yield a red colour under the same circumstances ; the other grounded on a reaction with brucia. A red colour is produced when nitro-glycerine is treated with brucia and concentrated sulphuric acid. In order to apply the first test some of the ethereal solution of nitro-glycerine is mixed in a watch-glass with 2 or 3 drops of aniline, and the whole evaporated on a water-bath till ody streaks of aniline are left; a drop of sulphuric acid is then added to bring out the red colour. Or, the ethereal solution is evaporated till the nitro-glycerine is left as an oily drop; a drop of aniline is then added, and, finally, sulphuric acid. The second method is preferable, though it is less delicate. By the first method i-ioooth grain of the poi- son may be detected. The brucia test is applied in a similar manner. E. Nystromf also contributes an important paper on the toxicology of this very interesting body. He points out the great danger involved, in the extensive use of such a poison—sweet, colourless, and apparently so innocent. Already three deaths have occurred in Sweden from its administration. Nitro-glycerine, which is not sensibly hydroscopic, dissolves in water to the extent of i per cent., and this solution is highly poisonous to frogs. Ether extracts the whole of the oil from its aqueous solution on shaking. Nitro-glycerine or its aqueous solution (the most poisonous preparation), applied to the unbroken skin, or given by tbe mouth, causes tetanus in frogs, gradually passing into paralysis and death. The great susceptibility of these animals to tetanus renders tbem extremely valuable in toxicological search for nitro- glycerine. Glycerine itself has no action on them. Birds are very insusceptible to the action of nitro-glycerine, and a guinea-pig took six * Op. cit., p. 365. + ' Upsala Lakarefbremings Forhandlingar,' ii, p. 231; and ' Schmidt's Jalirb.,' 1 36, p. 164.