WOUNDS OP NERVES. 279 knee, as well as the skin down to the malleolus, were quite devoid of sensation, but this area of insensibility gradually contracted. Seven days after the operation it was limited to the inside of the leg; three months after, to a spot of two square inches in the middle of the shin; and a month afterwards, to only half a square inch. Prof. "Weber refers to some researches of Szymanowsky, in the ' Prager Yierteljahrschrift,' as'giving similar examples of restoration of nervous influence after the removal of large portions of nerves. Such restoration must be due either to regeneration of the nerve or to anas- tomosing branches carrying on the current. In the present instance, as the portion of nerve removed was three inches long, and the func- tions were restored to a great extent a few days afterwards, the latter explanation is more probable. The patient remained well when last heard of—about half a year after the operation—and could walk fifteen miles. Wound of the median nerve, with preservation of tlie sensibility oftlie sYin ; exceptional recurrent sensibility.—In the 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, pp. 529, 555, will be found the account of a case, under the care of M. Kichet, in which a woman received a transverse wound, about an inch above the wrist, extending from the radial to the ulnar border of the forearm. "When seen, it was gaping to the extent of two fingers' breadth, and was filled with blood. On cleaning it M. Eichet dis- covered the lower end of the radial artery, on which a ligature had been placed, and then the upper end of the same vessel drawn out into a point, and not bleeding at all. This, however, he thought it better to tie. The tendons of the palmaris magnus and parvus (" flexor carpi rad." and "palmaris longus" of our schools), and the tendons of the fl. digitorum sub. which go to the middle and ring fingers, were divided, and some of the deep tendons notched. The other ten- dons were intact. In searching for the median nerve he found towards the lower lip of the wound a little stump, which he at first took for one of the tendons, but when he took it up with the forceps the patient cried out. M. Eichet turned up the stump to examine it, and as it was very irregular he cut a small projecting piece off it. The patient felt sharp pain from the section, and the central artery of the median nerve was seen bleeding. The portion cut off did not include the whole circumference of the nerve, but only a projecting and irregular frag- ment. jNerve-structure was seen in it under the microscope. He then searched for the upper end, but he continued his search as far as the ulnar border of the forearm without finding it. At length he saw it, pushed aside, folded up, drawn out, and "frayed off," as it were, at its extremity. On taking it up to replace it the patient felt excessive pain, showing that it was really the median nerve. M. Eichet wished then to show to those about him the effects of a complete division of this large trunk, but, to his great surprise, the patient retained the power of sensation. She felt quite plainly when touched on the thumb, the middle and ring fingers. In his astonishment he turned again to examine the wound, and again assured himself that the section of the nerve wa3 complete. He then united the two parts of the nerve with