439 ZYMOTICS. to stasis iu the venous system, especially in the sinuses of the brain, which, in conjunction with thickening of the blood to the point of thrombosis and its consequences, lead to hypertemia and transudation within the cranium. Zymoiics. Dr. Briiuniche considers the identity of variola and varicella (' Biblioth. f. Laeger,' and ' Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868). After a minute critical analysis he concludes against the identity ; that inoculation of one disease does not produce the other; that the appearance of varicella in the non-vaccinated does not annul the disposition for or susceptibility to vaccine. Scarlatina.—Mr. Heckford, Surgeon to the East London Children's Hospital, an institution founded by him in 1867, describes (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) a peculiar form of scarlatina. There was little or no febrile disturbance; rash either absent or slight; at first no sore throat; but the submaxillary glands were almost invariably inflamed, the in- flammation ending in suppuration or sloughing. In fatal cases a rash appeared over the trunk and extremities, resembling a purplish roseola. The mortality was very great. Dr. Gran gives an interesting history of an epidemic of membranous inflammation of the throat (angina faucium exsudativa), which raged in Sontra from 1864 to 1866 ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868). The first case occurred in July, 1864, the last in July, 1866. Two hundred and seventeen cases were treated. A very limited epidemic of faucial diph- theria had occurred in the winter of 1862. The epidemic now described broke out suddenly. Gran ascribed it to the damp condition of the dwellings in the poorer and lower parts of the town, which six weeks before had been flooded to an extent unknown before. The houses had not got dry when the epidemic appeared. The house where the first child was taken was especially sodden, and in the worst condition. The epidemic assumed a contagious character from the beginning. It showed remissions raising hopes that it had ended, and then reappeared with greater severity. "Weather had little influence. It attacked people living in all the streets of the town, and of all conditions. Cleanliness or dirtiness made no difference. Infancy and childhood were most ex- posed. The oldest person attacked was forty-four years. No infaut under one year which had not begun teething was affected. The dura- tion varied extremely, from one to fifty-five days. In most the disease ran its course in from four to seven days. The diphtheria was seldom complicated with other diseases; occasionally the membranous exsuda- tion spread to the epiglottis. In these cases death invariably followed. During a part of the time there were many cases of scarlatina with in- flammation of the fauces; but these cases were so different from those in question that Gran thinks they must be absolutely distinguished. The scarlatina epidemic lasted but a little while, and appeared in places where the peculiar diphtheria did not appear; it was never so rapid or so tedious in its course; it was never attended by the putrid smell from the fauce3. Most of the patients attacked by the diphtheria had had scar- latina before. The chief symptom was the yellow-white, thin, or some-