MILITATtY SURGERY. 325 (12) Mucous patches and onychia are an incontestahle manifestation of animal syphilis. (13) It is prohable that animals are subject to rheumatic pains, for, under the influence of syphilis, they often become very sensitive to cold, and the motions of their limbs are often impeded. (14) The painfulness of the skin, and especially of the hair-bulbs, becomes manifest in some cases of syphilis in animals. (15) Circumscribed acne, spreading syphilides, gummata, and tu- bercles of the skin, have been often observed in the cat. (16) Animals may experience osteocopic pains, and present chronic constitutional affection of the glands. (17) The cat which formed the subject of this paper had a fibrous tumour, which was indubitably syphilitic. (18) Periostitis, and even exostosis, have been observed in the cat. (19) A syphilitic cat produced young marked with syphilis and then becamo sterile. (20) Monkeys do not bear our climate long enough to allow similar observations with regard to their females and young. It should be added that the reality of these facts was warmly con- tested by M. Eicord. At p. 445 of the same volume will be found the account of some inoculations of syphilitic matter on heifers and rabbits with negative results. In connection with this matter the reader may consult in the 200th vol. of the ' Annali Universali di Medicina ' a report by Drs. Kicordi and DelP Acqua on the subject of the supposed accidental transmission of congenital syphilis from a baby to a cow. From many experiments which they made, and which they relate in the above paper, they decide against the transmissibility of syphilis from man to the lower animals. " On the Geographical Distribution of Syphilis," see a report by M. Bergeron to the Academie de Medecine on a work by M. Lagneau in the ' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1869, p. 375. The following extracts refer to military surgery : Healing of gunshot wounds hy first intention.—In the ' Deutsche Klinik,' 1867, p. 261, Dr. Simon, of Rostock, brings forwards his ex- perience of wounds received shortly before at the battle of Sadowa, to show that gunshot wounds, when uncomplicated by fracture, lodged bullets, or foreign bodies, may often heal by first intention. The cases comprised in this notice were 20 in number. The time which had elapsed since the battle was seventeen days. Twelve of the wounds were on the thigh, two on the leg, two on the arm, one on the forearm, and three on the trunk. They were all of them simple penetrating flesh wounds, with no lodgment of balls or portions of clothes. The patients were sixteen in number. Two of these were completely healed, and in all the others there was merely a little granulation about the entrance of the wound, with just sufficient suppuration to moisten the lint which was kept on it. Dr. Simon believes that the rapid union vroald be much more frequently observed were there enough surgeons in time of war to attend to cases which arc doing well of themselves.