REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 64 Bixth day, and the throat and nose symptoms then also disappeared. On the seventh day the first symptoms of desquamation appeared, and this was fully developed hy the twelfth day. On the twentieth day the child was bathed, and pronounced well. Steiner reports a case of smallpox and measles. A girl of 6 years was taken ill with rigors, feverishness, and vomiting, which increased during three days ; on the fourth day the characteristic smallpox erup- tion appeared; Two days later, the fever still continuing, it was noted that the eyes were congested, and there was dry cough, &c. Next day there was profuse catarrh; the cough was worse. The breathing was quick, the pulse and temperature higher, and certain dark red spots like measles appeared. The following day the latter were more clear. On the next day to this the smallpox eruption had much subsided— that of measles was highly developed. The temperature went on dimin- ishing on the night of the tenth day. There was a gentle sweat. The pulse had fallen next day to 96. The patient was dismissed, fully cured, on the twenty-second day. Steiner also reports a case of measles and scarlatina. A child of 5 years old, scrofulous, was attacked with catarrh and fever and cough. Pour days later the eruption of measles appeared. Inspection of the mouth and pharynx showed small, scattered, round, and very red spots on the palate. On the fifth and sixth days, the eruption still increasing, the child vomited repeatedly, and the temperature and pulse rose. The i'auces were now much swollen and dark red, with a yellowish-grey secretion covering them. Besides the original eruption, the neck and back, and certain parts of the extremities, showed a uniform diffuse scarlatina rash. On the eighth day, the measles eruption being some- what faded, but the scarlatinal eruption remaining, slight albuminuria and swelling of the submaxillary glands .occurred, and the albuminuria continued on the next day. On the eleventh day there was still fever, and there was now blood as well as albumen in the urine, and also fibrous tube-casts. On the thirteenth day scarlatinal desquamation began. There was ordinary scarlatinal dropsy during the next fourteen days. "Dr. Montgomery "Ward publishes an interesting case which strength- ens the affirmation made by Dr. Murchison, and other high authorities on fever, that typhus and typhoid can coexist, or overlap, in the same individual. The theory, of which Dr. Kennedy has been the chief exponent, in favour of the fundamental identity of the various forms of what used to be called continued fever, relied for one of its strongest arguments upon the fact that the symptoms, and particularly the erup- tions of both typhus and typhoid, have been observed in the same patient, in a considerable number of instances, within the course of an illness which only lasted some four or five weeks. But the advocates of the separate origin and nature of these fevers have, on the contrary, affirmed that these very cases form the best evidence that the diseases are radically distinct. The case, according to them, is strictly analogous to that of a typhus or a measles patient catching smallpox before he is well from the original complaint, of which there are plenty of recorded instances. Dr. "Ward's case certainly appears to fit in with this notion