AMPUTATION AT THE HIP. 225 artificial limb forward in walking by the action of the great quadriceps extensor. The third amputation was performed for diffuse inflammation after a gunshot fracture of the tibia. Here the articular portion of the patella was sawu off, its non-articular part being left, and the femur having been divided above the condyles, the sawn face of the patella was applied to it. The recovery was very slow, but when complete the stump was exceedingly useful, and he could walk long distances without fatigue. The author prefers, in amputating near the knee, to divide the femur above the condyles, inasmuch as the surface exposed by the section through the condyles is too large to be covered by the section of the patella, which he applies to the femur, so as to produce osseous union. He dwells upon the advantages of this defence to the end of the stump of the femur in supporting the artificial limb, and the utility of the patella as affording a point of action for the quadriceps extensor muscle, and rendering progression more easy. Amputation at the Jiij).— In 1 Langenbeck's Archiv,' ix, p. 250, will be found the account by Herr Petechin of a case of successful amputa- tion at the hip-joint on account of acute periostitis and osteomyelitis of the femur. The patient was a lad,' set. 17, who had been attacked with what was thought to be acute rheumatism in the knee. This turned out to be acute periosteal abscess of the femur, and he was suf- fering so much under pain and suppuration that amputation was de- cided on about five weeks after the commencement of the attack, and was performed close below the trochanter. The thickened condition of the periosteum, together with the redness and prominence of the medulla in the stump of the femur, decided the operator to remove the latter, which he did by dissecting it out of the joint. The patient made a favorable recovery. After the operation the stump was so movable that he was able to use a common wooden leg, but this was afterwards found to be heavy,, and as he grew did not fit him, and so was laid aside. The method of amputation was by a circular skin incision, with flaps of the muscles. The first incision was only a little above the middle of the thigh, and it was probably to this great length of the stump that its mobility was due. In the 'Medical Times and Gaz.,' Nov. 2, 1867, Prof. Fayrer, of Calcutta, relates a case in which a young man, set. 21, received a wound of the knee-joint on June 24. The thigh was amputated on July 2. The bone where divided was found to be stripped of its periosteum by the slightest manipulation, and was, therefore, divided again two inches higher up. He had rigors on the following day ; the temperature was high, 1010; the breathing was hurried ; dulness in the upper right side of chest, with moist rales. There had been a good deal of oozing of blood, distending the flap. There were all the other symptoms of osteo- myelitis. Amputation at the hip-joint was performed, but the patient died the same evening. His death was attributed by Prof. Fayrer to accumulation in the right side of the heart of blood-clots, Buch as, he believes, frequently form in conditions of blood poisoning. A successful case of excision, followed by amputation of the hip, for 15