REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 78 sullen and angry. His diet was immediately improved, and four ounces of brandy ordered. He became extremely violent in the course of the day; in spite of brandy and morphia, got no sleep, and was talking, shouting, and singing. There were none of the ordinary symptoms of delirium tremens. This state continued for several days without his getting more than short snatches of sleep. The violence then began to abate, and he gained more sleep. His fury was somewhat replaced by sulkiness. The rheumatic symptoms never gave any further trouble, but the mental symptoms yielded slowly, and at the end of five weeks, when dismissed from the hospital, ho was still in a disturbed and un- healthy state of mind. The third case was that of a woman, who believed herself to have swallowed poison, and was, consequently, very much alarmed and excited. There was the mark of a blow on her forehead, of which she gave no account. She had vomited after having taken the supposed poison, and this was repeated several times, with a good deal of retching and straining. Next day she seemed to be going on well, but towards night she broke out into noisy delirium. Morphia subcutaneously in- jected failed to obtain sleep. The following night, too, she got no rest; she was very talkative and excited, with some delusions, but with no tremor. "Whether in consequence of repeated opiates or not, she got some sleep on the third night, and from that time gradually improved. About three weeks from the commencement of the illness she was dis- charged cured. Barclay supposes that in all these cases the occurrence of delirium was largely due to the want of food. He thinks that, in this kind of cases opiates are only of secondary importance to improved nourishment and stimulants. He thinks the absence of tremor in the last two cases, while it was present in the first, may be explained by the fact that in the latter there was much greater nervous exhaustion, the nervous sys- tem not being merely starved, as in the other cases also, but 2)oisoned by the rheumatic process. He thinks that tremor, indeed, is a symptom of altered blood in acute diseases (' St. George's Hospital Reports,' 1868). Interstitial Encephalitis. Virchow writes a paper on this subject. He refers to the researches detailed before the Association of Scientific Men at Hanover, and reported in the thirty-eighth volume of the ' Archiv,' on a peculiar form of con- genital encephalitis and myelitis, and the subsequent observation of G-riife on the connection between these changes and the ulceration of the cornea, and the confirmation of this by Hirschberg. As the inquiries have proceeded, it has become plain that not merely infants, but also children of some months old, suffer the same changes; and it is plain that, though in many cases the process begins before birth, in many others it occurs some time after birth. It is possible that the mortality in the first months of life may depend on this cause. Hayem, in consequence of Virchow's researches, has examined the brains of all young infants who have died under his care, and has been surprised to find the frequency of these changes. So far he has ouly observed a