356 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUKGEUY. * ' Arcliiv fiir Ophthalmologic,' xiv, 1. t Ibid., xiii, 2. % Ibid. the case; but the method is not to be accepted, as by Pagenstecher, for general use. Kemoval of cortical remains was accomplished by careful friction through the eyelids, and, if the hyaloid was not broken, needed only time and patience. Such manoeuvres never produced inflamma- tion, but remains of cortex nearly always impeded recovery. If the hyaloid were ruptured, only experience could teach how much vitreous might be suffered to escape in order to obtain the benefit of complete removal of all cortical fragments. In the 100 operations, 71 were entirely normal, and in 29 there were various accidents or complica- tions. In 74 cases the recovery was normal. Of the 100 cataracts, 70 were hard, 8 not hard, 9 very hard, and 13 complicated. Of the 70 hard cataracts, vision ranged from 1 to ^ in 58, from to in 8, was only qualitative perception of light in 3, and was wholly lost in 1. Of the 8 cataracts not hard, vision ranged from 1 to TV in 5, from -jlj- to in 2, and was lost in 1. Of the 9 very hard, from 1 to ^ in 8, from -fa to in 1. Of the 13 complicated, from 1 to Jo in 1, from ^ to in 7, and in 5 was reduced to quantitative perception of light. It was often found that vision could be much im- proved by a cylindrical lens. The same author* subsequently reports a second series of 100 opera- tions. Partly from his own experience, and partly from the statistics of others, he arrives at the conclusion that, while an incision in the sclerotic heals better than one in the cornea, yet that the former in- volves greater danger of loss of vitreous, especially at the centre of the section. In order to steer between these dangers, he advises that the puncture and counter-puncture should be as far back as the attach- ments of the iris will allow, but that the centre of the section should not be more than half a line from the margin of the cornea. The ultimate result of the second hundred cases is stated to be—2 lost eyes, 5 imperfect cures, 93 perfect. Dr. Ferd. Bergmannf gives the particulars of 13 cases of extraction of cataract, with its capsule, witnessed by him in the clinique of Dr. Knapp. He states that escape of the vitreous humour is less common than would be expected, or than was stated by Pagenstecher himself; and that profound chloroformization is not indispensable. Dr. Knapp has had but one case in which the loss of vitreous was considerable, and three more in which it was small. A more important accident, rupture of the capsule with escape of cortex, happened four times, and was always followed by inflammation. In 9 cases there was secondary hemorrhage into the anterior chamber, and in 2, haemorrhage into the vitreous. The resulting acuteness of vision was not greater than by other methods, and the author concludes that the operation is not indicated for any but very hard cataracts, attended by some thickening of the anterior capsule. Von GraefeJ refers to his formerly expressed opinion that it would not be practicable altogether to lay aside traction instruments, in spite of their inconveniences. He still maintains this opinion as far as the plan of extraction then employed is concerned. This, the Sclditten