NEW AN.HSTHETIC AGENTS. 197 shaped sponge. Since then I have inhaled the vapour in smaller quantities from several instruments, with the effect of proving that there is little difference required for the administration between the bichloride and chloroform. The bichloride may be inhaled from a moist sponge, from a balloon or Clover's bag, or from a funnel such as this, made by stretching a few layers of thin cloth over a small wicker work, such as is used for surrounding a flower pot, and which opens or closes to any size that may be required. A metallic inhaler such as Snow's chloroform inhaler presents too small a surface for evaporation. In the course of administration a little more bichloride of methylene is re- quired in the earlier stages than would be required if chloroform were being used, the fluid being more easily vaporisable, and the loss greater. One drachm of bichloride to forty grains (or, in common phrase, minims) of chloroform is a fair statement of the difference required; but when the narcotism is well set up less of the bichloride is needed, in animals, to sustain the effect, the repetition of the administration not being so frequently demanded." The following are the conclusions to which he comes : 1. It is an effective general anaesthetic, producing as deep insensi- bility as chloroform. 2. In action it is rather more rapid than chloroform, but to develop effects more of it is required, in the proportion of six parts to four. 3. It produces a less prolonged second degree of narcotism than other anaesthetics. 4. When its effects are fully developed, the narcotism is very pro- longed, and is reproduced with great ease. 5. Its influence on the nervous centres is uniform, and it creates little, if any, disturbance or break of action between the respirating and circulating functions. 6. Its final escape from the organism is rapid, so that the symptoms of recovery are sudden. 7. In some cases it produces vomiting. 8. When it kills it destroys by equally paralysing the respirating and circulating mechanisms. 9. It interferes less with the muscular irritability than perhaps any other anaesthetic. 10. It combines with ether and with chloroform in all proportions. " Since the lecture above written was delivered I have been enabled to test the action of the bichloride of methylene on the human adult sub- ject in five long and severe operations. Four of these were cases of ovariotomy performed by Mr. Spencer Wells, and the period of nar- cotism in each case averaged from thirty-five to forty-five minutes. In all the cases, except one where Weiss's inhaler was used, the anaesthe- tic was administered from a simple mouthpiece made of a layer of parchment paper stretched over a light frame of wood, and lined on the inner surface with lint. The quantity of bichloride of methylene used in each case averaged a little more than a fluid drachm each five minutes, two drachms being first used. In all the cases the adminis- tration has been safe, and the recovery from the effects of the narcotic good. I noticed specially that in each case tho transition from the