495 DISINFECTION. its derivatives ; and by liberating sulphuretted hydrogen from sulphides they aggravate stenches. Chloride of lime, by reason of its hypo- chlorous acid, acts as an energetic oxidizer ; but if it contain much free lime (and this sometimes forms one half of the commercial chloride) ammonia may be liberated from decomposed excrementitious matters. Hence, the use of this agent is not always to be advised. Liberation of ammonia may be avoided by neutralizing the chloride with an acid, which, moreover, by rendering the chloride more energetic, becomes an economical addition; but in the hands of the unskilful free chlorine is likely to be generated. Gypsum, alum, soluble silicates, and sulphuric, according to Stromeyer, are not true disinfectants, since they merely serve to fix ammonia, and leave the sulphuretted gases untouched. Green vitriol, though it fixes sulphuretted hydrogen, increases the gutter-stink (gossenkothgeruch). Iodine and bromine, on account of their cost, can seldom be employed. A dilute solution of chloride of lime acidulated with an acid, solutions of permanganates and manganates, especially when acidulated, and carbolic acid in its various forms, are among the best disinfectants. The rationale of the action of car- bolic acid is, perhaps, unknown. An anonymous writer contributes an excellent article on this subject to the 1 American Journal of Medical Sciences.'* Dr. Angus Smith, of Manchester, who is, perhaps, one of the first Euro- pean authorities on the subject of disinfectants, has recently published a work on this subject which should be in the hands of every medical man.f The author draws his information from all ages ; he discusses the perfumed pomades of the ancients, the conserve of roses of the Athenians, the purification by fire of the Hindoos, of Hippocrates, and of Zeno of Constantinople ; the labours of Hercules, who saved the Elians by draining their marshes; the embalming of the Egyptians ; the sulphur fumigation of Ulysses ; the anaesthetics mentioned by Pliny and Galen applied to surgical operations. He discusses these with the more modern experiments of Dr. Petit, Sir John Pringle, Guyton Morveau, Dr. Carmichael, Smyth, Eourcroy, Hildenbrand, Dr. Henry, and others ; and, comparing their processes with those adopted in our time, shows that, throughout the immense mass of empiricism of a bygone time there runs a thin thread of gold which he has interwoven with his own researches, and so raised the whole subject to the dignity of an exact science. The following quotation, given by Dr. Angus Smith, shows that the ancients were, in some things, quite as alive as the moderns to sanitary questions. Justinian says, "The praetor took care that all sewers should be cleansed and repaired for the health of the citizens, because uncleansed and unrepaired sewers threaten a pestilential atmosphere, and are dangerous." "Would that all sewer authorities of the present day were as well informed as Justinian ! Dr. Angus Smith offers the following apposite remarks on the burn- ing of dead bodies, which has been advocated of late as a means of obviating the danger occasioned by their multiplication in and about * Vol. lvii, p. 149. t 'Disinfectants and Disinfection/ by R. Angus Smith, Ph. D., F.R.S., F.C.S.