REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 15G sudden attempts at swallowing in eating and drinking must be specially avoided. The raouthfuls taken must be small, and the attempt to swallow must be quiet (' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xlviii, 1867). Ulcer of the Stomach, Dyspepsia, Sfc. Dr. Fleckles reports very favorably on the influences of the waters of Carlsbad in this disease. He gives it in small and frequently repeated doses for eight days, and then gives an interval, during which the patient is to take warm baths of g f Fahr. The attacks of pain in the pit of the stomach are to be relieved with morphia. The regulation of the diet is of the very highest importance as an aid to the cure (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 139, p. 114). Dr. W. Ebstein, of Breslau, reports cases in which ulcers of the stomach and duodenum were caused by trichina?. A girl, a?t. 21, died soon after her mother from very severe trichinosis. The stomach was much distended, the mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the fundus suffused with blood, and in the neighbourhood of the pylorus there were superficial haeniorrhagic erosions. On the posterior wall, near the pylorus, there were five ulcers, whose margins were sharp, with brownish scabs still somewhat adherent to their edges; the bottom of the ulcers was yellowish, the parts around pale and healthy. In the duodenum there was found a perforating ulcer which opened just beneath the liver. On the posterior wall of the duodenum there were two other similar ulcers, only not perforating. There were plenty of trichina? in the muscles, but none in the stomach or duodenum. Dr. Wyss examined the body of a cat strongly affected with trichi- nosis, and found ulcers in the duodenum. Cohnheim, on the other hand, from his large experience at Heder- sleben, has found no proof of any connection between trichinosis and affections of the stomach mucous membrane. Such, at least, is his former conclusion, yet from his own reports it appears that, of 17 cases, 3 exhibited remarkable pathological changes of a similar kind to those above described (Meissner, in ' Schmidt,' 158, p. 93). (It may be remarked in general that there is great difficulty in deciding how i'ar trichinosis really had to do with the production of ulcers in these and similar cases. It is very well known that ulcers, at least of the stomach, are extremely common, and that they often heal spontaneously, as is proved by the frequent traces of their scars found in the bodies of persons who have died of other affections.—F. E. A.) Dr. Balthazar Foster gives some cases (' Lancet,' April 25, 1868) of gastric ulcer successfully treated on the principle of giving the organ rest. The patient iB to keep the recumbent posture, to taste neither food nor drink, and to have frequent nutrient enemata. In the second stage the diet is to be carefully regulated. Opium may be added to the enemata with advantage. Pepsine added to the enemata causes irritation. Oppolzer, writing on enlargement of the stomach in the ' Wien. Med. "Wochenschr.,' xvii, 28, 29, says this may depend on two causes—on mus- cular paralysis or pyloric obstruction. The first most frequently follows gastric catarrh, ending in fatty transformation of the muscular tissue of