EXCISION OF THE KNEE. 2(57 to the operation for the subperiosteal resection of the knee, which is also described by the same author in the 201st vol. of the 'Ann. Univ.' The leg is to be bent on the thigh, the anterior tubercle of the tibia and the articular borders of the internal and external condyles of the tibia are to be made out. The operator raises with the point of a tri- angular knife from below upwards all the soft parts from the tubercle of the tibia, including the insertion of the rectus femoris, and stripping the periosteum from it. Then he makes two cutaneo-periosteal incisions parallel to each other, and directed upwards along the right and left borders of the ligamentum patellar to the centre of the articular surface of the tibia. Having arrived so far, he opens the capsule, and, following the upper border of the internal condyle, incises the skin and detaches from their insertion the aponeurosis, the inferior extremity of the tendon of the biceps internus, and of the corresponding portion of the capsule. He then does the same on the outside of the knee as he has done on the inside, incising the skin, and detaching from their insertions the aponeurosis and the inferior extremities of the biceps externus, and of the corresponding part of the capsule. It does not require to be mentioned that in order to preserve intact the ends of the tendons, capsule, and ligaments, the superficial layer of bone must be detached from the tibia, or at least the periosteum stripped off". While the operator is making these incisions his assistant keeps flexing the leg more and more, and the parts being thus on the stretch, it is easy to detach all the tissues from the articular border. The joint being more and more opened by the extreme flexion, the operator, with the point of the triangular knife, detaches the superficial layer of bone from the anterior tuberosity of the tibia (the anterior insertion of the crucial ligaments). The joint being still further open by the section of these ligaments, the operator directs his knife towards the inner side, and detaches the lower end of the internal lateral ligament and of the corre- sponding portion of the capsule, then he pursues the incision on the outer side, and detaches the lower end of the external lateral ligament from the fibula, and the corresponding part of the capsule; and the assistant continuing to flex the limb, the operator completes the de- tachment of the posterior portion of the crucial ligaments, should these ligaments not be completely severed. The joint is now very fully exposed. The periosteum is then to be severed from the femoral con- dyles, and the diseased portion of that bone dealt with according to cir- cumstances. If necessary, the periosteum may now be detached from the tibia, and the bone excavated to any necessary extent. No directions are given about the patella, but it could, of course, be excavated entirely or to any required extent from its articular surface, which is exposed and turned up in the commencement of the operation. Excision of the knee.—In the ninth volume of ' Langenbeck's Archiv,' Dr. Konig, of Hanau, has given an account of his personal experience of this operation, and some general observations on the operation, chiefly with regard to its performance in childhood. Dr. Konig has paid particular attention to the position of the epiphysial line, and given exact measurements of its position, both in the femur and tibia,