CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. OF CHILDREN. 159 the patient died. The peritoneal cavity was filled with flaky serum, the intestines were matted together. Just below the middle of the liver the duodenum and the pancreas wore joiued together by old and new lymph ; at one side of this was a rugged opening into the duodenum halt an inch in o-reatest diameter. This was at one side of the base of an ulcer near the° pylorus, about an inch in diameter, and with shelving edges ; the base was formed of thickened peritoneum. A cicatrix of what seemed an old ulcer was close at hand. He had been ill sixteen hours. The food had, probably by distension, caused a slight rent, which had been to a certain extent obviated by treatment, but in the evening he drank heartily of water, which caused the fatal tear. Other interesting cases are given. The Chronic Diarrhoea of Children. Dr. Muller, of Riga, lays down the following rules for the application of remedies in the diarrhoea of children. (1) As to evacuant remedies. The physicians of last century fre- quently used emetics of ipecacuanha, especially at the beginning of the disease, but latterly this practice seems altogether abandoned. For the most part the same may be said of laxatives. Castor oil in moderate doses in later childhood, at the commencement of its intestinal catarrh without fever, or where errors of diet have brought about mischief in the course of such a complaint, is often of considerable service. It will do all that any purgative could do under such circumstances. (2) Of absorbent remedies magnesia and the carbonates of alkalies are most used. For little children small doses of bicarbonate of soda to be employed ; older children are given limewater by Muller in preference to all other absorbents. It should be used directly there are signs of acidity or upon considerable flatulence. But these must always be considered as mere purgative remedies. (3) Mineral astringents are much in fashion, especially of late years, in chronic intestinal catarrhs. Bismuth the author has used a few times, and the results so far are very good. He would certainly use it in every case in which there were not some special indications for another remedy. Acetate of lead is but rarely applied, although it is probably of the greatest use under such circumstances. The neglect has, perhaps, arisen from its being given in too small doses. Nitrate of silver has a great many supporters, and is distinctly one of the most effective remedies in chronic diarrhoea of children. There is a good deal of doubt about the dose. Such small doses as the sixteenth of a grain are never used by Muller. He employs from the eighth to a sixth of a grain at a dose, which he gives every two hours for one day, and after that reduces the frequency. The nitrate must be dissolved only in distilled water. If there is extreme diarrhoea, tincture of opium must be put into the medicine in small quantities. The only indication for the use of opium is to prevent some other remedy, which might be of use, from being too rapidly discharged from the bowels. Chronic habitual diarrhoea is a special indication for nitrate of silver. The following three circumstances are also special indications :—