346 HE POUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUHGEHY. was of a fibroid character. The patient made a good recovery, inter- rupted for a time by neuralgic paius radiating from the wound; and the restoration of the functions of the eye was eventually complete, except that the power of abduction was limited. MM. Sichel, pere et fils,* describe a case of melanotic tumour involv- ing the outer side of a blind and shrunken eyeball, in which they com- bined the modern operation of enucleating the eyeball with the old operation of dissecting out the contents of the orbit. The external rectus, being adherent to the orbital wall, could not be divided in the ordinary way. The internal, inferior, and superior recti were, however, cut through, and the eyeball released from its attachments in these directions. Then the external commissure was divided towards the temple, and the diseased tissues carefully dissected from the outer wall of the orbit. Lastly, the optic nerve was severed as far back as possible. The soft parts that were left afforded support for an artificial eye, and some bridles of adhesion at the outer canthus yielded to division and cauterization. Four years have elapsed, and the disease has not re- turned. The same authors call attentionf to the occasional occurrence in the eyelids of cysts containing osseous or calcareous matter, and Dr. RizetJ relates a case of the kind. Such cysts are easily removed by a simple incision through the integument covering them. Dr. Hippel§ describes a gummose tumour involving all the coats of the eye. The patient, a man, 45 years old, contracted a primary sore in April, 1865, and was treated by perchloride of mercury. Secondary symptoms followed, but had disappeared (save osteocopic pains) by the end of July. In September the right eye became injected and painful In October vision was impaired, and the vision of the left eye suffered in the following month. In March, 1866, after exposure to cold, the right eye became completely blind and painful, and the left eye much enfeebled. Examination showed specific iritis, ptosis, the ocular con- junctiva bluish-red, two projections at the lower part of the sclerotic, the pupil entirely filled by a yellow mass, loss of vision complete, pain excessive. Enucleation was performed, and an intra-ocular tumour was discovered that involved all the coats of the eyeball. A microscopic examination, by Prof. Neumann, determined it to be a gummose syphilitic growth. Analogous cases have been recorded, in former years, by von Graefe, Colberg, and Arlt. Cases of tumours of the eye- lids are described by Schirmer,|| of tumours of the orbit and eyeball by Hirschberg,^" and of malignant intraocular tumours by Lebrun.** Zehenderft has published a general review of the results of ligature of the carotid for pulsating tumours of the orbit; Joseph Bell has published a successful case, and J. Z. Laurence§§ another, in which the carotid was tied for a traumatic aneurism. M. Boissonneau, pere,|||| suggests that a distended (staphylomatous) eyeball will become reduced if the liquid contained in it be suffered to * ' Annales d'Oculistique,' 1867. t t § ' Archiv fur Opbthalmolonie,'xiii, 1. || • Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. $ Ibid., 1868. ** ' Annales d'Oculistique,' 186S. ft ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1868. jt ' Ed. Med. Journ.,' 1867. §§ ' Ophth. Rev.,' 1867. Illl 'Evenement Mddical,' 1867.