jlEPORT ON SUItGEllY. £90 first, and appears to have been so throughout. After sixty hours of continuous compression (as far as the account is intelligible) the venous bruit and thrill ceased, and the ense became one of simple aneurism. Then compression was made on the brachial, as well as could be ma- naged, about eight or ten hours a day, and the patient became gradually cured. On direct compression in the treatment of aneurism.—In the ' Annali Universali di Medicina,' 1867, 199, p. 351, Dr. Ciniselli treats of the use of direct compression in the cure of aneurism. He commences by referring to cases already published, as follows : (1) Cure of a case of traumatic aneurism at the root of the left carotid artery, the size of an orange, by direct compression maintained on it by means of the bottom of a tumbler filled with ice. Internal regimen calculated to diminish the heart's action was also used.— Sonchier d'Allex, in the 'Atti della Soc. di Medicina di Marsiglia,' quoted in the ' Annali Universali,' xciv, 1840. (2) Traumatic aneurism in the groin extending into the pelvis. Indirect compression on the iliac artery, followed by direct compression with the patient's own hand on the tumour.—Rizzoli, 1 Bulletino delle Scienze Mediche di Bologna,' xxi, 1864. (3) Popliteal aneurism of large size gradually cured by direct com- pression in about a month by the same surgeon.—Ibid., xxiii, 1865. (4) Bellingham's case of secondary aneurism of the external iliac recurring after ligature of the common iliac, and cured by compression first below the tumour, then on the tumour itself.—Brosa, 'Des Anevrys- mes,' p. 889. (5) Popliteal aneurism treated by compression with tow steeped in white of egg mixed with Bol. Armenian and alum, assisted by bandaging the limb. Cure in two months.—Fabris, in' Ann. Univ. di Med.,' xxviii, 1823. (6) Gherini relates a case of popliteal aneurism in which the patient effected his own cure by means of a bandage which he had applied to relieve the pain he felt in walking.—Ibid., Nov. 1858. (7) Gherini also relates a case of varicose aneurism after bleeding, in which he used first indirect compression to the brachial, then direct compression on the tumour; and observing that the tumour became Bmaller and harder under the latter, he persevered with the direct com- pression, which in a short time effected a perfect cure.—Ibid., March, 1864. (8) In a case of traumatic axillary aneurism under his _ own care, occupying the whole cavity of the axilla, indirect compression of the subclavian for a quarter of an hour once or twice a day was used, and the tumour compressed by means of a sponge maintained continually in position with a bandage. The cure was complete in four and a half months, and remained permanent.—' Bulletino delle Scienze Mediche di Bologna,' xxiv, 1865. In all the above cases, however, either other means were used as well as direct compression, or the means and degree of compression are not related with sufficient accuracy.