INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 165 Intestinal Obstruction. Dr. Hilton Fagge communicates to the ' Guy's Hospital Eeports ' for 186S a very valuable paper ou intestinal obstruction as it has occurred at Guy's Hospital during the last fifteen years. The number of autop- sies which have been made is rather more than 4000, out of which 54 cases of intestinal obstruction are reported. Apart from the various forms of hernia coming under the surgeon, the various forms of intestinal obstruction naturally fall under six heads. Taking those first in which the mucous surface of the bowel is affected, and passing gradually to those in which the constricting force acts upon its external surface, we have— 1. Those in ivhich the gut is plugged by its contents.—Under this head are included gall-stones, intestinal concretions, masses of ingesta, &c. 2 Intussusceptions or invaginations.—In so far as these produce obstruction of the intestine, they may be regarded as analogous to the agents which are concerned in the first class of cases ; the difference is that the bowel is now plugged, not merely by a foreign body, but by another portion of the bowel, which is itself sooner or later strangulated by the pressure to which it is subjected. 3. Strictures.—In these the disease is situated in the substance ot one or more of the coats, and ultimately narrows the calibre of the intestine. 4. Contractions.—Under this head are placed a large number of cases often confounded with strictures, but differing from them in some important respects. In these instances the disease begins, not within the intestinal coats, but on their exterior—sometimes on the serous sur- face of the intestine, sometimes in the mesenteric glands. The obstruc- tion, when it occurs, arises, not merely from a narrowing of the calibre of the bowel, but partly from the adhesion of one coil to another or to some other structures, or from puckering and contraction of the mesentery. 5. Volvuli, including folds and twists of the intestine.—In these there is no new formation either within or without the intestinal coats. The obstruction, or even the strangulation, is due simply to the pressure of adjacent portions of the bowel or its mesentery, or both. 6. Internal strangulations, strictly so-called, in which the constricting agent has no structural connection with the circumference of the intestine strangulated, but is independent of it, and invested with a distinct peritoneal covering. Dr. Fagge says that in certain instances the means for perfect dia- gnosis are wanting, so that we cannot conclude where the disease is situated, or predict what will be the post-mortem appearances. It is, therefore, necessary, in endeavouring to distinguish clinically the different forms of obstruction, to supplement the broad facts of the case by careful questioning, by continued observation, and by special investigation. To this end a method is necessary, and practically the first point to be determined is whether the disease is situated in the large or small intestine. The following distinctions have been laid down: