464 REPORT ON MEDICAL JUBISPRUDENCE. § ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxix, p. 130. Blood-stains. Dr. Falk,* of Berlin, recommends an important modification in the usual mode of preparing blood-stains for spectroscopic examination. He was led by Helwig's successful employment of a solution of iodide of potassium instead of a solution of chloride of sodium in preparing ha>- mine crystals, to try the same solvent in extracting the colouring matter of the blood for spectroscopic purposes. He was surprised to find with what facility even old blood-stains dissolve in this solution, whilst the dyes imprinted on the stuff do not so readily dissolve, and thus no im- pediment is offered to the direct use of the spectroscope. As Hoppe had previously shown, carminic acid might be mistaken for blood, but the spectra of the two substances are clearly distinguishable from one another. Sonnensehein f gives an elaborate paper containing some useful modi- fications of the ordinarily received methods of examining bloodstains. These are chiefly ocular inspection by artificial light rather than by day- light, drying the solution of the colouring matter in a watch-glass at a low temperature, and submission of the dry residue to spectroscopic examination. The residue may then be dissolved in water, and submitted to the action of the usual chemical reagents. Dr. A. S. Taylor* has worked out Van Deen's guaiacum blood-test to a satisfactory conclusion. Freshly precipitated resin of guaiacum is not coloured blue by the class of bodies known as antozonides, such as the so-called " ozonized" ether, oil of turpentine, peroxide of hydrogen, &c. ; whilst ozonides, such as permanganate of potash and the persalts of iron, turn the resin blue. The colouring matter of the blood has no tinctorial action on guaiacum. If, however, a drop of an antozonide solution be added to a mixture of blood and guiacum, a beautiful blue colour is immediately developed. The antozonide which Dr. Taylor prefers for this purpose is the ordinary commercial solution of peroxide of hydrogen. The best mode of applying the test is to add a little of the suspected liquid to tincture of guaiacum rendered turbid by the addi- tion of water. Should the mixture become blue, the test is inapplicable ; if, however, no blue tint is developed in the course of a few seconds, a few drops of a solution of the peroxide are added, when the development of a blue colour is conclusive as to the presence of blood. Should the colour of the mixture be obscured by the turbidity, the addition of a little alcohol will remove this, and bring out the colour. The order in which the mixture is made is important. The test is a very delicate one. M. Blondlot has arrived at the following conclusions, drawn from experiments made with blood stains§:—i. That the surest and most sensitive reaction for the detection of blood in supposed blood- stains is the production of crystals of hsemine. 2. That this proceeding * ' Horn's Vierteljalirsschr.,'vi, p. 354. + ' Virchow's Jahresbcht.,' 1867, i, p. 592. X 'Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1867, p. 431.