30-1. REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. ** 'Annales d'Oculistique,' 1867. gular patches, sending forth prolongations along the vessels, especially tlie veins, the walls of which appear to be the source of the serous transudation, which at last involves the entire retina and compresses the bacillary layer. By this time the acuteness of vision is no longer complete during the day ; there is amblyopia, and the patient, carefully interrogated, will describe many variations in his state. Subjective examination of the retina and of the visual field, and trials with Jaeger's scale, will suffice to show the mischief that is in progress. At the same time the circulatory system appears distended, and the optic disc, within the limits of its vascular supply, shares in the congestion, assuming sometimes a roseate tint. It is curious to follow the different phases presented by the retinal vessels when the disease continues or gets worse. The venous system shows them most plainly; because, while the arteries, surrounded by the exudative secretion, diminish in calibre, lose their branches, and at last disappear by atrophy, the veins pass from a state of tension to hypostasis, their calibre increases, their flexuosity becomes such that some of them appear as if beaded, and the course of the blood, less and less regular, is at last interrupted by haemorrhages that may be seen with the ophthalmoscope, such as are observed in other affections characterised by obstruction of the vascular current. Changes still more profound follow, and lead on to atrophy and degeneration of the retina and of the choroid. Twenty-four cases of hemeralopia are also recorded by Joao de Lacerda.* The subject of the changes produced in the internal tunics of the eye in persons of tuberculous diathesis has been investigated by various authors. Galezowski,f after calling attention to the fact that general conditions of the organism may affect the eyes and vision injuriously, observes that the tubercular diathesis has not been sufficiently studied in this respect. His ophthalmoscopic researches have enabled him to observe during life, in general tuberculization, certain changes in the retina and the choroid, occasioning disturbances of vision which, in the phthisical, assume three forms—i, changes in the nutrition of the retina; 2, neuritis and peri-neuritis consecutive to tubercular menin- gitis; and, 3, tubercles of the choroid. J. CohnheimJ has written on the subject after great labour and research; and von Grraefe and Leber,§ and Soelberg Wells,|| have recorded cases of tubercle in the choroid observed during life. Professor Kuapp^f describes the dissection of three eyes taken from two women who died from puerperal fever, and in which purulent deposits and inflammation had occurred. He found general stagnation of blood and purulent infiltration in the retina and the uveal tract, and the morbid processes in the eyes seemed completely analogous to those in other parts of the system. Dr. Emile Adamiuk, of* Cazan,** attributes the phenomena of * ' Gazeta Medica de Lisboa,' 1867. f ' Archives Generates de Medecine,' 1867. f ' Arcliiv fur Path. Anatomie and Phys,/ xxxix. § 'Archiv fiir Ophthalmologic,' xiv, 1. || ' Med. Times and Gazette,' 1868 ; and op. cit. II « Archiv f. Ophth..' xiii, 1.