DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 235 curved 12 hours before death. - The head of the bone is situated on the ischium, opposite to the lesser ischiatic notch and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon of the obturator internus is torn from its muscular fibres ; some of the fibres of the pyriforinis, gemelli, and gluteus minimus are also torn. There is fracture extending through the os in- noiuinatum near the acetabulum. The patient was a maniac who leaped from a third-story window. He died of other injuries received at the time. But in none of these specimens is the laceration of the capsule situated at the anterior or the outer part of the joint. " The other forms of dislocation—namely, those on the dorsum ilii, the ischiatic notch, and on the pubes—are secondary, dependent either on muscular action or on the continuance of the dislocating force. The course of treatment is therefore obvious. Muscular rigidity having been overcome by the employment of chloroform, the head of the bone has to be worked down to the inner or the inner and posterior part of the capsule, where the rent will be found, and the replacement of the bone be effected. Muscular rigidity having been overcome by the use of chloroform, the leg should be bent at the knee and the thigh on the trunk, when, with a rotatory movement, the head of the femur may be easily made to retrace its course. Having succeeded in getting it at the inner aspect of the joint, the surgeon, with one movement, rotates the thigh outwards and suddenly extends the limb, when the head of the bone slips into the socket with a snap. " These points were first demonstrated to me by Prof. Fabri. In the ' Brit. Med. Journ.' of Oct. 22, 1866, is a letter from Mr. Thomas Cuddeford, my late house-surgeon, confirmatory of that which I have here written." In the ' Lancet,' i, 1868, p. 343, is the account, by Mr. Callender, of ; a case in which he reduced a dislocation of the head of the femur into ' the ischiatic notch by the process of manipulation described below, after : the pulleys and the ordinary manipulation, in which the thigh is flexed : and rotated outwards. Mr. Callender believes that in this latter pro- ; cess the head of the femur is caused to roll around the lower edge of I the acetabulum to its inner side, bringing it to the obturator foramen, or even on to the pubes. Mr. Callender explains how this is done, and I states that the ischiatic nerve has been known to be seriously crushed, : and the bruising of the parts has been such as, in one instance at least, to give rise to subsequent disease of the hip-joint. The manipulation which he found successful was as follows :—" The thigh was bent on the abdomen, and I slowly moved the limb into a straight line with the body, so that the head of the bone could be felt projecting in the but- tock, outride the tuber ischii. The limb in a straight line with the :trunk, without allowing any rotation outwards, was then drawn forwards Trom the abdomen, and forced downwards (extended), and the head of the bone at once slipped into the acetabulum." In the same volume, p. 617, is the account, by Mr. Powdrell, of a dis- location of the hip on to the obturator foramen, at the age of 6months, (reduced easily by manipulation, somewhat similar to the ordinary method of extension by the pulleys. Mr. Hamilton exhibited, on Nov. 28, 1868, to tho Dublin Pathologi-