471 INSANITY. tion. His plan of procedure is to tako a drawing by the instrument during the interval between two attacks ; when the individual is appa- rently in good health; and again after the convulsive movements ob- served during a fit have passed away. He sums up his conclusion sthus :— (1) Epileptic fits and simple vertiginous attacks produce alterations in the circulation which can be recognised by the sphygmograpb, and which are characterised by very pronounced curves, ascending lines of great height, and a well-marked dicrotism that lasts from half an hour to several hours. (2) These sphygmographic forms are not obtained as a result of gesticulations, violent exertions, &c, simply. (3) The pulse of simulated epilepsy differs altogether from that of real epi- lepsy. (4) Given a person who simulates epilepsy, it is sufficient to take several sphygmographic sketches of the pulse, before and just after the attacks, in order to detect the imposture. Paralysis.—A highly instructive case of simulated paralysis is de- tailed by Tardieu. A gentleman brought an action against a railway company two years after an accident, alleging that he was suffering from permanent paralysis of the right inferior limb. A difference of opinion existing among the surgeons employed, M. Tardieu was com- missioned to examine the patient. A very conclusive opinion that the paralysis was simulated was grounded on the facts that, notwithstand- ing an old and perfectly repaired fracture of the pelvis, the paralysed limb was perfectly mobile, of larger size than its fellow, and well nourished. Both limbs were of equal length when the patient lay supine. When walking by the aid of a crutch the muscles of the affected member became rigid (a circumstance which accounts for the greater girth of the limb), and there was none of the peculiar dragging observed in real paralysis. Moreover, the general health was excellent, there was no paralysis of the bladder or rectum, and the sexual appetite was said to be unimpaired. In sc. nit'ij. The Lunacy Commissioners of England, Scotland, and Ireland, have issued blue-books containing statistics of insanity in the United King- dom to the commencement of 1867. It is to be regretted, however, that, owing to the paucity of details in these statistics, their value is very much diminished. At the date we have mentioned the total number of lunatics under the supervision of the English Commissioners was 49,082, of whom 22,635 were males, and 26,717 females. This shows an increase of 45 per cent, since 1857. The number of pauper lunatics returned as curable is only 10 per cent. In Scotland the returns are given only to the commencement of 1866. The total number of lunatics was 6662 ; this gives an increase for eight years of \ per cent. In Ireland there were 8964 lunatics, and in 1864 only 8272, so that, with a decreasing population, there has been an increase in the number of insane persons. It is a disputed point, however, whether luuacy is on the increase in the United Kingdom, or whether the increase in the number of insane people under the care of the Commissioners * 'Ann. d'ilyg.,' xxx, 1, p. 100.