REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 134 was no antecedent rheumatism ; the symptoms lasted two or three years. There was extreme dyspnoea, venous pulse, and a systolic bruit loudest at the top of the sternum. The post-mortem showed great contraction of the tricuspid orifice, and very probable insufficiency. Of the 10 patients 8 were women. In 3 cases there was a history of previous acute rheumatism ; in 3 others a history of chronic general pains ; in 2 more there had been repeated attacks of catarrh. Of the remaining 2 there is no historical record. In 2 of the above cases (not further specified) the symptoms had existed ever since infancy. In 5 the stenosis Avas of such degree that two fingers only could be passed through the orifice; where there was stenosis and insufficiency of the tricuspid there was always a high degree of the same condition in the mitral, and in one case aortic insufficiency also. In 2 cases ouly one finger could be passed through the tricuspid ; in 1 of these, besides con- traction and incompetence of the tricuspid, there were similar affections of the mitral and aortic valves ; in the other, stenosis of the tricuspid and mitral with incompetence of the aortic valves. In 2 cases the tricuspid orifice was so narrowed that even one finger could not pass. Durosiez inclines to think that the accidents which are produced by mitral contraction and incompetence are not aggravated by the simul- taneous presence of similar affections of the tricuspid valve. The venous pulse, which Gendrin, more particularly, has brought into notice, appears to Durosiez, from his own experience, not to possess a true pathognomic significance of tricuspid contraction ('G-az. des Hopitaux,' lxxviii, 1868). Dr. Blix ('Hygiea,' 9 and 10, 1867; 'Schmidt,' 10, 1868) records a couple of cases of endocarditis of the tricuspid valve, which, con- sidering the rarity of this diseased condition, are worth mentioning. The first occurred in a woman, set. 56, who was received into the Seraphim Hospital for a pneumonia of the right lung. When she entered the heart-sounds were clear but weak, no bruit was heard over the tricuspid, and the pulse was very small and almost intermittent. After death the heart was found to be fatty, the muscular tissue of the ventricles was yellowish. The aortic valves showed slight signs of fatty degeneration, the mitral and pulmonary were sound. The tricuspid showed signs of ulcerative endocarditis under the posterior division of the valve. The right anterior and the left posterior divisions were united by a fibrinous mass, firm and hard. One of the papillary muscles exhibited loss of substance. The endocardium itself was thickened, and covered with small pieces of fibrin. The lungs were cedematous, and the kidneys enlarged. The second case occurred in a woman, £et. 31, who in her last preg- nancy had lost much blood from placenta praevia, and who had con- sequently become extremely anaemic and weak. Latterly she had suffered from rigors, followed by profuse perspirations. There was slight dulness in one lung 5 the area of duluess over the heart was nor- mal ; but on auscultation alike over base and apex a loud systolic murmur was audible. Over the vessels in the throat an anaemic murmur was heard. The pulse was small and quick. The liver was much en- larged. She was much troubled with rigors, recurring at certaiu periods ;