REPORT ON OPHTHAIMIO MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 352 larger section (4i- to 5 lines), and a smaller scoop. Bowman's results were 8 4 per cent, of failures, and a further 9 per cent, of defective cures. Von Graefe obtained, by Critchett's method, in 118 cases 7 complete failures, and 4 others nearly complete; while in 1600 flap extractions he had had 7 per cent, of failures, and since his use of the compressive bandage only 5 per cent. Dr. Stefl'an practised Critchett's operation in 1.3 cases of senile cataracts with hard nuclei, 3 times with concomitant iridectomy, 9 times with iridectomy at least six wicks before extraction. The operation was normal nine times; twice there was escape of vitreous, once before the lens, once following it. Jn 2 cases portions of cortex were left behind. The recovery was unin- terrupted in 7 cases, and in 6 there was inflammation. Six patients were enabled to read No. 1, one No. 6 • one gained nothing, on account of atrophy of the optic nerve, although the operation succeeded surgi- cally ; 3 were conducted to a moderately good result by consecutive iridectomy; and in 2 the operation was useless. These results, to- gether with his investigations, caused the author to fall back definitely upon flap extraction. In order that a senile cataract may not injure, in its passage, the lips of the section, it is necessary for this to have a form and extent in accordance with that of the nucleus to be removed. Daviel (1747) took two thirds of the circumference of the cornea. Richter, about 1770, had the merit of fixing the extent at that of half the circum- ference, a rule that the most eminent practitioners have observed down to our own day. Arlt wras the first who gave (1850) precise measure- ments of the cornea, of the section, of the thickness of the cornea, and of the size of a normal lens. "Writers following Arlt, and giving linear dimensions, omitted all mention of the thickness of the lens. Dr. Steffan sought to supply the omission by measuring tho nuclei of 20 cataracts. He found as a maximum a diameter of from 3f to 4 lines, and an axial thickness of from if to 2 lines, so that a hard cataract may be of dimensions equal to those of a normal lens. This happens in cataracts with horny cortex, and also in complete cataracts with tardy softening. Such cases are met with in advanced life, towards the seventieth year. Most of the nuclei of hard cataracts have mean dimensions from 3 to 3^ lines of diameter, from 1 to i£ of thickness. Small nuclei, of less diameter than 3 lines and less thickness than 1 line, are uncommon and difficult to diagnosticate. Thus the thickness of a cataract is nearly half its diameter, and should be taken into account in the corneal section. On considering what occurs at the time of exit of the lens from the eye, it becomes evident that the flap should have a height at least equal to the thickness of the cataract; and since the thickness of the cornea makes the internal wound smaller than the external, the puncture and counter-puncture should fall at least half a line outside of the trans- parent corneal margin. Only under such conditions can the cataracjj escape without injury to the lips of the wound. It is also evident that the convex part of the section should reach at least to the corneal margin, for an incision directed forwards, and for a cataract of maxi- mum size. It might fall a little within the cornea if the size of the