RErORT ON MIDWIFERY, BTO. 4.20 through compression of tho foetal body. (4) After labours, in the course of which a disturbance of the foetal circulation was observed, the child's bladder was generally empty ; even a slight disturbance is enough to cause this evacuation, whilst the excess of meconium only takes place in considerable alteration of the placental circulation. (5) The urine of new-born children is distinguished by a pale colour and slight concentration; it has a specific gravity of iooo-8—1006; reaction acid ; it generally contains no albumen ; the chlorine fluctuates between 0-02—'03 per cent.; the urea is from o-i—0 8 percent.; a few cubic centim. suffice for the detection of urea. (6) In children whose birth was attended with disturbance of the circulation, and in dead-born children, the urine is more concentrated. The albumen found in the urine of dead-born children is to be considered as a post-mortem appearance ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1867). Dr. C. Hecker, having measured many foetuses at different stage3 of development, draws the following conclusions:—The seat of the umbilicus is never lower than in the lower third of the space between symphysis pubis and the extremity of the xyphoid cartilage. It is so low as this only in the third month. From this time we find it gradually rise until the sixth or seventh month, from which time there is no remarkable change, the proportion of 1 to r6 being maintained ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1868). Monsters. Cases are described by TV. Ross (' Obst. Trans.,' ix) ; complete epis- padia, Dr. Eastlake (loc. cit.) ; caudal appendage in place of lower extremities, Dr. Meadows (loc. cit.), by Drs. A. Hall, Heywood Smith ; spina bifida, with talipes varus of both feet; H. M. Madge (loc. cit.), a case of twins growing together at the breast and abdomen, by Dr. Scherer ('Bayer. Aerztl. Intell. Bl.,' 1867). On twisting and knot-formation of the navel-strings in twins, by Dr. P. Midler (' Scanzoni's Beitrage ziir Gebertskunde,' 1868) ; a contribu- tion to the study of lateral hermaphroditism, by 0. V. Franque (ibid.) ; a malformation caused by amniotic bands, by Dr. Jensen ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1868). Dessant describes (' Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1867) a tumour in theperinceum of a new-born child. John Taylor ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1867) observed a new-born infant with an abscess under the jaw—not syphilitic. Asphyxia. Dr. Lowenhardt pi*efaces that a number of examinations of dead children, in which fruitless attempts at resuscitation had been made, taught him that what prevented the access of air was the accumulation of mucus, blood, and other fluids in the larynx and air-tubes, the result of premature efforts to respire. He further calls attention to a sure sign of life; it is the existence of pulsation in the foetal part of the umbilical cord, which may be discovered when every other sign of life is gone. To feel this pulsation in the umbilical vessels the in- sertion of the cord must be seized between finger and thumb rather