TUBERCULOSIS. 39 the organ, but more particularly in the alveoli; the hardening to a process of fibrous degeneration, the peculiarities of which are carefully and minutely described in the report. The caseation consists in slow- necrosis of the previously indurated and anaemic parts. From the first the "land is incapable of performing its functions, and from the moment that°induration commences the absorbents of the organ to which it belongs are blocked up. In the live guinea-pig tuberculous or, as it might be designated, adventitious adenoid tissue, undergoes fibroid degeneration and casea- tion, the results of which cannot be distinguished from those observed in the normal adenoid tissue of the lymphatic glands and of the spleen. Dr. Sanderson anticipates that it will soon be possible to show that in man. as well as in the lower animals, tuberculosis is an infective disease of the lymphatic system; and that while, on the one hand, the serous membranes play the most important part in the generalisation of the tuberculous infection, i. e. in conveying it to the organs contained in the great serous cavities, its distribution inside of those organs is governed by that of the lymphatic vessels. On the Alterations of the Retina, and the Choroid in the Tubercular Diathesis. Dr. G-alezowski propounds the following statements :—i. In the first group of changes he ranks those alterations of nutrition in the retina which may exist in chronic phthisis, and which seem to depend upon interference with the circulation. Some consumptives have momentary difficulties of sight sometimes after cough, and examination with the ophthalmoscope generally shows engorgement of the retinal veins. It seems to be generally most strongly marked in the eye on the same side as the lung most affected. 2. The second set of changes are observed in the optic papilla when tubercular meningitis is set up. The central vessels become tortuous and masked at the border of the disc; some- times they are not much changed, only their edges are a little concealed by surrounding exudation from vessels which are ruptured here and there. The first kind of appearance characterises optic neuritis, the second perineuritis. 3. Finally, the author mentions cases like those recorded by Auvray and Cohnheim, of tubercular granulations in the choroid. The ophthalmoscope shows spots or white nodules regularly rounded and without any pigment. Cohnheim never found tubercles in the choroid, except in subjects who have died of tuberculosis. Gale- zowski has observed them in the living subject in chronic phthisis. (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1868.) Other papers on the subject of tuberculosis are— Relation of certain uterine affections, especially leucorrhceal, to phthisis (Fawcett Battye, ' Transac. of Obstet. Soc.,' p. 237, 1867). On the changes in the retina and choroid in tuberculosis (Dr. X. Gaiezowski, 'Arch. Ge'n.,' Sept. 1867). Relations of tuberculosis to amyloid degeneration, in Grainger Stewart's paper on the cattle disease (' Bnt. and For. Rev.,' Jan. 1868). Case of tuberculous changes in the choroid (Friinkcl, ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 140, p. 140, 1868). Cases of tuberculosis with deposits in alimen- tary canal (R. Maior, 'Arch. d. Heilk,' 1867, p. 25). Tuberculosis of kidneys, &c. (Magnan,' Gaz. Med.,' 25, 1867). Schiippel and Rindfleisch, on anatomy of tubercle in liver (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 140, p. 132, 1868). See also the papers mentioned under •Phthisis.'