160 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKUIC1XE. (1) Croupal deposits iu the mouth and throat, which not unfre- quently complicate chronic catarrh of the intestines. (2) A peculiar redness and smoothness of the tongue. (3) Unquenchable thirst. The nitrate of silver has been recom- mended to be given by the rectum as well as at the same time by the mouth. The author has no experience of it in this way. He recom- mends injections of— _ (4) Vegetable astringents and tonics. The author has experimented with two such remedies, namely, the extract of the campechy wood and calumba. The former has no right to its reputation. (5) Iron. The chloride of iron, according to Eomer, the pernitrate of iron according to the French authors, are indicated in the chronic diarrhoea where softening of the mucous membrane may be feared. The stools then often contain decomposed blood, and the symptoms of amnesia are considerable. Binz employs syrup of iodide of iron in doses of two or three drops several times a day. (6) Stimulants. The remedies of this class which in high doses pro- duce narcotism are very much in fashion. The author himself has followed Romulus's advice in giving tokay to children in circumstances of much exhaustion with good results. It remains to mention the diet in chronic diarrhoea of children. The importance of this subject is usually recognised, but it is very difficult to make a choice of the best food, on account of the difference between individual constitutions. Two principal methods are recommended— milk diet and meat diet. As regards the wholesale recommendation of milk, two things are to be remarked—whilst very many uphold it, a great many contradict it. Vogel especially observes that young children will not tolerate cow's milk, either alone or mixed with tea, or made into a porridge with bread or flour. Midler's experience tells in favour of this opinion. He finds that milk constantly increases the diarrhoea, and he has had similar ex- perience with his colleagues at his residence. Possibly climatic or local peculiarities may be influential and may help to explain the differences of opinion. "Woman's milk appears to be somewhat differently placed in this regard. Occasionally in obstinate diarrhoea good has been done by putting children long weaned to the breast again, a somewhat diffi- cult proceeding. AVeisse, of St. Petersburg, recommended for weaned children raw beef flesh. Miiller has used it with the most striking result also in chronic diarrhoea of later childhood, especially where there is much amnesia. The worst of it is tapeworms may ultimately result froin this. The treatment should not be abused, and should only be applied in obstinate diarrhoea of weaned children. It appears that the administration of raw meat has not yet become very general. Miiller therefore thinks it not unnecessary to describe the mode of its use in detail. The meat must be best fillet, as much as possible free from fat. It must be chopped fine and grated into a pulp, and this must be strewed with a little salt. Two table-spoonfuls are to be taken, at about four meals in the twenty-four hours. If the food pleases the child, that is an infallible sign it is doing good, the quantity daily may be somewhat in-