JtEPORT ON SURGERY. 232 case the tumour, -which was of no large size, passed down to the velum palati. The uvula was little sensible, so that it could be handled with a pair of forceps without giving the patient much pain. It was quite easy with the laryngoscope to see the implantation of the tumour into the base of the skull. A ligature was placed upon it near the bone, and the polypus came away in a lew days. It recurred, however, a year afterwards, and was again similarly removed. The point of its implanta- tion was easily visible with the laryngoscope, and M. Herrgott wished to rasp the bone at this point. On trial he found that an instrument passed through the anterior nares impinged exactly upon this point, and on referring to a skull he saw that this is the normal relation between the anterior nares and the basilar process. The bone was easily denuded, and on examining the patient seven months afterwards no trace of reproduction was visible. On the subperiosteal operation for removing naso-phargngeal poylpi.— The following note of ISignor Larghi is quoted in the ' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1867, p. 617, from the ' Giornale della R. Acad, di Med. di Torino,' No. 6, p. 326, 1866. The anterior opening of the upper jaw-bones is the most natural way to extract naso-pharyngeal polypi. To accomplish this, the upper lip is to be turned upwards and backwards, and an incision to be made into the gingivo-periosteal tissue above the alveolar border of the an- terior and lateral surface of the two upper jaw-bones; their perios- teum is to be stripped off, and with the lever the anterior inferior nasal spine is to be raised up. If necessary, the inferior insertion of the vomer is also to be detached and raised with the lever, and carried to the right or left side according to circumstances. If, from the size of the tumour, the opening so described is not sufficient, the periosteum of the edges of the maxillary bones being already detached, as much as is requisite of these bones is to be removed. By this method the face is left intact and the palate is not injured, parts which are spoiled by the methods previously in use. On plugging the posterior nares in operations on the face.—In the ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 370, will be found a communication which M. Verneuil made to the Acad. Imp. de Medecine, on the precautions to be observed against haemorrhage in certain operations on the face. He says that, in order ^to avoid the bad effects of haemorrhage, and to give the patient the benefit of complete anaesthesia through- out such operations, he has proceeded as follows:—First, he divides these operations into three classes—(1) Operations involving the nasal fossae only. In these he begins by plugging the posterior nares. (2) Those which only interest the -walls of the mouth. Here he reserves to the last the incisions which penetrate into the mouth. (3) In opera- tions which implicate simultaneously the mouth and nose he combines both precautions. He refers to 11 operations, of which 5 were on tumours of the ala nasi, nasal fossae, or the cavities in communication ■with them ; 4 on tumours of the lips, checks, or floor of the mouth ; and the other 2 tumours involving the upper jaw as well as the palatine