314 RETORT ON SURGERY. stone having recurred half a year after the first operation, and having again required to be broken up before it could be extracted. The patient was a young man 29 years old. On the first occasion the stone was found by measurement, before operation, to be not less than one inch in diameter, and was so hard that lithotrity was negatived. After the bladder had been opened by the ordinary lateral opertion it was found impossible to get the stone out of the wound, and it was accord- ingly broken to pieces by Heurteloup's " percuteur" with a hammer. When put together, the stone was one and a half by one inch. The operation was long and tedious, still the patient recovered without a bad symptom. Notwithstanding the care that was taken to see that no fragment was left in the bladder, the patient was again admitted into hospital half a year afterwards, and again the stone was so large, and the bladder so irritable, that lithotomy was undertaken. Again it was found that the stone was too large to come through the wound, and the same proceeding was adopted as on the former occasion. Each opera- tion lasted nearly three hours, there being great difficulty in finding and catching the pieces of stone in the collapsed folds of the bladder. The patient again recovered perfectly in five weeks, and was known to have remained well for three years afterwards. Dr. Simon thinks it /probable that a fragment was accidentally left at the first operation. In the second case the patient, a man, set. 31, had suffered from symptoms of stone nearly all his life. A very large stone (more than two inches in diameter) was caught in the lithotrite, and by sounding with this stone it was discovered that there was more than one in the bladder. Encouraged by his success in the previous case, Dr. Simon resolved to use the combination of lithotomy and lithotrity instead of the high operation, which would otherwise have been needed. The sounding was followed by some fever; nevertheless the operation was performed next day, though the temperature was still 102° The break- ing up of the first stone required more than twenty applications of the crushing instrument, and was finished in about an hour and a half; after which the second stone came into reach, which was of about the same size, and required equally laborious crushing. The patient, however, did perfectly well, and was able to leave his bed in four weeks. In the same journal, p. 23, will be found a case in which Dr. Simon performed the supra-pubic operation on a child six years old, who had two stones in the bladder, one of which measured nearly an inch in diameter. He was encouraged to this operation by the good results obtained by Dr. Giinther, in Leipsic. The operation, however, proved fatal. On immediate union after lithotomy.—In the 'Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1867, pp. 704, 719, 733, 761, 777, 801, will be found a series of observa- tions by M. Bouisson, of Montpellier, to prove the possibility of union by the first intention after operation for the extraction of stone. M. Bouisson refers to two cases of this nature published by Tolet and Boudon. He has also published (in his ' Tribut a la Chirurgie') a case of complete recovery in eight days. The method of lithotomy which