11 CIRCULATION. such a degree that the heart was empty. If the heats were irregular the experiment could be commenced anew by readmission of the blood. Auscultation was accomplished by the direct application of stethoscopes made of various material to the surface of the heart, and gave in all instances the weaker sound above described. Sometimes the second sound of the heart was also heard if the heart contained any blood, and the aorta was not to some extent left patent. The authors conclude from these researches that the main cause of the first cardiac sound is the mus- cular sound, though, perhaps, under ordinary circumstances, vibrations of the valves are commingled with it. The fact that up to the present time no sound has been perceived in the single contractions of muscular tissue is certainly not opposed to the possibility of such sound occurring in the case of the heart. The result of an important series of observations on the influence exer- cised bv the movements of respiration on the circulation of the blood have been communicated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson,* in which he observes that such influence is in ordinary respiration entirely of a mechanical nature, and that the act of inspiration, being accompanied by an increased flow of blood to the heart, immediately induces increased frequency and force of the cardiac beats, the former effect resulting from shortening of the diastole ; the latter from increased vigour of the systole, which exhibits itself in increased pressure in the vessels. In expiration, on the contrary, the beats of the heart are slower, the diastole longer, and the arterial pressure less. M. E. Cyonf has made two series of researches to determine the influence of temperature and of carbonic acid upon the action of the heart. The hearts of frogs were employed, which, after being removed from the body, were connected with an apparatus by which the serum of rabbits' blood could be driven through their vessels, maintaining their activity for from 24 to 48 hours. The serum could be transmitted charged either with carbonic acid or with oxygen. His experiments showed that serum saturated with carbonic acid produced sudden stoppage of the heart's action as soon a3 it came into contact with the internal surface of the cavities. This stoppage was due to excitation of the terminal branches of the vagi, for—(1) It occurred suddenly in diastole. (2) Isolated con- tractions could be induced during the stoppage by reflex irritation of the heart. (3) The movements were suddenly resumed after the expulsion of the serum saturated with C02. (4) The same peculiar amplitude of the contractions, interrupted at first by long periods of repose, was observed as after excitation of the vagi and stoppage of the heart. Arterial system.—M. Claude Bernard J states that there exists in cer- tain organs, and particularly in the glands, two modes of communication between the arteries and the veins—first, through capillary vessels, and secondly, through certain small arteries which inoculate directly with the veins. These last, which are eminently contractile under nervous in- fluence, serve to regulate the local circulation of the organ without dis- * * Phil. Transact.,' 1867, p. 571. t " liber den Einfluss des Tempcraturacndcrungen," &c, ' Ber. d. Sachs Gescll. dcr Wi33.,' July, 1866, ar.d ' Comptes Rendus,' 1867, p. 1049. % ' Rapport sur le Progr6s de la Physiologic,' 1867, p. 66.