REPORT OS PRACTICAL MEDICINE. is to be cured, applied at other hospitals in a week or two afterwards, suffering from mucous tubercles, and other symptoms of syphilis. Depaul believes that, though mercury is no specific, it is yet the best remedy for syphilis. M. Panas had observed carefully 100 cases treated with mercury, 40 of which had not yet shown secondary symptoms at the commence- ment of treatment. In spite of this early treatment secondary symp- toms appeared. Mercury is, however, strikingly useful in preventing those febrile intercostal, neuralgic rheumatic pains which^come between the period of the chancre and that of secondary symptoms. Rheuma- tism is especially to be guarded against by an early use of friction. M. Diday divides syphilitic cases into two groups—those in which you must give it, and those in which it is to be avoided. Cases which commence mildly are to be treated without mercury, but those which threaten serious lesions must be treated with mercury ; the treatment should begin fourteen days before ordinary appearance of the eruption. The ointment of nitrate of mercury should be rubbed in every night for eight days, aud then the friction should be ceased, or earlier if sali- vation appears. Simultaneously very small quantities of iodide of potash should be given. The treatment must be resumed at every relapse ; the treatment differs seriously from the plan of giving mercury for one, two, three, or six months, or a year together, in smaller or larger doses. Mercury does not prevent secondary symptoms. The superficial and slighter symptoms of external syphilis do not require mercury. On the other hand, syphilis of internal organs does require it. In psoriasis of the hands, and in mucous tubercles, it is useful, and local treatment is of the highest value. Tertiary symptoms are not affected by mercury if iodide of potash fails; in this case a great im- provement is often effected by moral and mental influence, of which, strange to say, Diday recommends mercury most strongly. Syphilis, like all contagious diseases, is a parasite, and has its period of incuba- tion, which differs according to the original nature of the poison. M. A. Guerin does not believe that mercury is a remedy for the symptoms of syphilis, as Diday thinks, but that it removes the cause of the syphilis, i. e. the virus, whereas Diday considers that mercury should only be given in severe syphilitical affections. Guerin recom- mends it in papular and pustulary eruptions, but forbids it in indurated chancre and mucous tubercles. He maintains that mercury does cure syphilis, and every attempt ought to be made to produce actual cure by prolonged treatment; it should be given for some months, and then discontinued for a time and again resumed. Guerin prefers the iodide of mercury with opium ; he alters this now and then to fumigation; he does not think well of inunction. M. Le Fort has treated all his syphilitic patients at the Hop. du Midi for the last two months -without mercury, but considers the method very dangerous. A skin eruption appeared in the majority, and after two months was as bad as at first, while mercurial treatment was found to get rid of it in two or three weeks. Ho speaks highly of the bichromate of potash recommended by Dolbeau. He considers that as regards mercury it is still doubtful how long it should be given,