270 KKJ/UKT O.N SUltOKRY. and in others where no such result could take place—as, for instance, where profuse bleeding occurred after the operation in my ease— the patients did not seem to feel the depressing effect of the open wounds. "In conclusion, there is one important point to which I wish to call attention—that out of the whole fourteen cases there was not a single instance in which the operation was performed for a deformed condition of the knee alone. In every instance there was either extensive disease alone or a deformed and useless limb combined with more or less disease within the joint." In the 'Deutsche Klinik,' 1867, p. 393, a case of resection of the knee by Prof. Volckmann is related, which deserves quotation as being one of the few cases recorded of recovery from excision of the knee for injury, as well as on account of the singularity of the accident. The patient was driving a locomotive engine which left the road, and he was buried in the ruins of the engine and his leg fixed immovably, while a stream of boiling water from the engine was directed against the external surface of the knee on the same spot for twenty minutes. The result was sloughing of all the coverings of the joint and necrosis of the outer condyle of the femur. On the separation of the slough a hole was found in the joint, exposing necrosed bone in the patella and femur. The patient was gradually sinking under the resulting sup- puration, when it was decided to excise the joint, which was done with good success. It must be added that the surgical fever was never at any time excessive. Subperiosteal excision of the os calcis.—In the work already referred to on p. 258, ii, p. 272, M. Oilier describes a proceeding by which ho has succeeded in removing the entire 03 calcis, leaving the periosteum behind, and dividing no tendons except the tendo Achillis at its inser- tion. An angular incision is made with its vertical part along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, and its horizontal part along the external edge of the foot as far as the end of the fifth metatarsal bone. Care is taken in the latter proceeding not to cut the peronan tendons. After all the soft parts, including the periosteum, are scraped oft'the posterior part of the external side of the os calcis, the tendo Achillis is carefully separated, with a sharp raspatory, from the bone and thrown inwards, together with all the soft parts covering it. Next the inferior face of the bone is cleaned, and the peronsei tendons are exposed and drawn forwards by an assistant with a blunt hook. The external lateral liga- ment is then detached, and the calcaneo-cuboid joint opened. The next step is to introduce a thin knife into the calcaneo-astragaloid articula- tion, and thoroughly divide the interosseous ligament. The bone is now drawn down with a strong pair of toothed forceps, and the cal- caneo-scaphoid ligaments detached. Then, the soft parts being drawn inwards with blunt hooks, the internal surface of the bone is cleaned, and the remaining adhesions will give way as it is twisted out. M. Oilier adds that in this operation one can hardly avoid wounding the sheaths of some of the tendons, but that such injuries are far less