REPORT OS MATERIA MKU1CA, ETC. § 'Wiener Med. Wchnschr.,' 1867, No. 35. 17(3 and flowers. The flowers are exhausted with boiling alcohol and lime, the spirit is distilled off, and the resin precipitated by acetic acid^ washed, and dried. As thus obtained, koussin is a white or yellowish white, very friable, odourless, crystalline resin. It is very slightly soluble in water, readily soluble in absolute alcohol and in alcohol of 90 per cent. It is almost tasteless at first, but leaves a sharp, bitter after-taste. Three per cent, of koussin may be extracted from the flowers. It was administered in five cases of tapeworm, in several of which other remedies had been ineffectually employed. In all cases the worm was expelled after pain in the abdomen, purgation, and some- times vomiting. In only one case was it necessary to repeat the dose. To an adult 20 or even 40 grains may be given, enveloped in wafer- paper. The physiological and therapeutical actions of a great number of plants and of their active principles have been investigated of late. The following notes embody the principal results obtained : Bromide of Potassium.—MINI. Eulenberg and Guttmaun,* from their own experiments, come to the conclusion that this salt exerts a paralysing effect on the heart and nervous centres. M. Labordef arrives at a totally different conclusion. This experimenter states that the bromide acts neither upon the heart as a poison, nor does it paralyse either the muscles or the encephalon. Its primary action, he says, is upon the spinal cord, and results in the impairment or destruction in this nervous centre of the property of presiding over reflex movements. The rationale of the action of bromide of potassium is still an open question. Dr. Bill % rejects the conclusions of all these observers, and, whilst recognising the usefulness of the bromide in diminishing the sensibility of the mucous membranes, attributes the hypnotic effects observed after the continued use of the salt to an accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood. Bromide of potassium is, in its legitimate action, an anaesthetic to the nerves supplying the mucous membranes, and a depressor of the action of these. The beneficial effects resulting from the administra- tion of the salt in epilepsy are attributable to this anaesthetic action when the disease has an eccentric origin. Bromide of sodium has not the same action as bromide of potassium, but is the physiological sub- stitute of chloride of sodium ; hence common salt is a direct antidote to bromide of potassium, the two salts yielding by double decomposi- tion bromide of sodium and chloride of potassium. Carbolic Acid.—Dr. Neumann § has investigated the action of this substance on organic tissues, and embodies his results in the following conclusions: — (1) Carbolic acid, when concentrated, is a powerful caustic, the action of which is not confined to the spot where the acid is applied; hence its deep penetration iuto the skiu. (2) It renders the tissues transparent without swelling. (3) After intense action of the * 'Gaz. des H6p.,' 1867, No. 77. t Ibid., 1867, No. 83. % 'Amer. Jonrn. of Med. Sc.,' lvi, p. 17.