EXTRACTION' OF CATARACT. 353 cataract were less. Since the author has adopted this manner of operating, his success has been more uniform than he could have hoped. He finds no source of danger in the flap itself, and therefore cannot assent to the principle on which von Graefe based his linear section. The flap may produce suppuration, but so also may the linear section, or even a puncture or abrasion of the cornea. In nineteen operations without chloroform, and with iridectomy, either prior to or at the same time as the extraction, only once was there any complication. The section had been made too small, and it was necessary to extract the lens with Critchett's scoop. Escape of vitreous and some bruising of the iris were followed by irido-choroiditis and atrophy. In 4 cases there was slight irritation, with formation of secondary cataract. Fourteen patients read No. 1, one read No. 4, and three read only large type. These were cases of pre-existent irido-cyclitis. In considering the sections adopted by different authors, Steffan observes that the height of the flap is commonly sufficient, but its base too narrow. The improvement of placing the section outside the cornea is due to Jacobson; but the influence attributed to marasmus is pro- bably due to want of correspondence between the extent of the section and the size of the cataract. Corneal wounds, if cleanly cut, heal as well as wounds in the sclerotic, but only in the sclerotic can perfect cleanness be ensured. \Vith regard to the value of linear corneal sections in hard cataract, Steffan points out that Schuft employed a section having three lines of external length. How could a cataract of mean dimensions (3 to 3I- lines in diameter and 1 to i| in thickness), supported by a bulky scoop, be removed through such an opening without injury ? It is not sur- prising that Mooren lost 31 "25 per cent, of his cases, and Steffan himself 29*6 per cent., although his section extended to a fourth of the circumference of the cornea, that is, to an external length of 3-J- or 4 line3, and an internal length of 3 lines. Such a section might suffice for small cataracts, but how can we ascertain the size with certainty? It is always a necessary precaution to make a somewhat larger section than the cataract seems to demand. Bowman and Critchett, indeed, make a section 4I or 5 lines long externally, and 3f or 4 internally, corresponding to the diameter of large nuclei; but the axial thickness, in passing through the wound, shortens the section. It is, therefore, not surprising that those who have followed this method have lost many cases. It is the same with von Grraefe's section. Its length, 4-J- or 4f lines externally, 4 lines internally, will not permit the easy passage of a nucleus of from 3 to 4 lines in diameter and from 1 to 2 lines in thickness. V. Graefe, however, now attaches great importance to the exit of the lens by pressure alone, without the introduction of a traction instrument. He prescribes a height of half a line for the flap, if it bo wished to pass such an instrument, in cases wdiere the lens cannot be made to glide out; but he condemns the principle of giving greater height to the flap as a means of avoiding contusion. Steffan differs from him upon this point, and believes that this contusion is fraught with evils. He gives the flap a height commensurato with the thickness of the cataract. 23