|| * Annates d'Oculistique,' 1868. *i ' Bull, de Th6rapcutique,' 1867. TUMOURS OF THE EYEBALL. 3-17 escape through an open puncture. Tor this purpose he proposed to introduce into the puncture a little stud, perforated through its axis, and otherwise resemhling that which Avas proposed by Nussbaum as an artificial cornea. The literature of affections of the conjunctiva has been but scanty. Dr. Rudolph Schirmer* calls attention to the frequent occurrence of conjunctival irritation or inflammation in patients suffering from dis- turbance of the refraction or accommodation, and points out that permanent relief can only be afforded by proper spectacles. Dr. Durrf describes an epidemic of granular ophthalmia, occurring in the Insti- tution for the Blind at Hanover, in which it was found that nearly all the patients suffered also from an analogous affection of the throat. The combination was found in 13 a cases out of 135, from which Dr. Durr concludes that the two local disorders were due to a common cause. He insists upon the importance of abundance of pure air and of nourishiug food, as conditions precedent to the successful use of local remedies. MM. HennequinJ and Lagarde§ describe each a case in which the application of calomel to the conjunctiva, in patients who were taking iodide of potassium internally, was followed by the most intense ophthalmia, clearly due to the conversion of the calomel into an iodide of mercury, and to the effects of the latter as a powerful local irritant. In one of the cases actual sloughing of a portion of the con- junctiva was produced, with consequent symblepharon, and it also fortunately happened that corneal opacities of very long standing became absorbed as the inflammation subsided. In the second case the patient was in the habit of using calomel for phlyctenular ophthalmia, and it was only when taking the iodide that her accustomed remedy produced any unusual effect. Dr. Sichel|| writes strongly against what he terms the abuse of collyria containing atropine, in cases of keratitis, in which he thinks atropine is not needed, and in cases of iritis, in which its use is permitted to supersede the necessary and rational anti- phlogistic treatment with which it should be combined, He places great stress, also, upon the method of applying collyria, saying that a drop should be inserted between the lids by means of a soft camel's hair pencil, and at the outer angle. The drop will then follow the course of the tears, and will be diffused over the eyeball before reaching the puncta. The strong collyria with atropine, now so much employed, and often thrown carelessly into the inner angle, are accused by the author of causing grave symptoms of poisoning, by their escape down the lachrymal passages into the nose and pharynx. That they should at least be used with due caution is shown by Dr. Nieberg,^" who relates the case of a girl of sixteen, with cataracts, to whom he gave a phial containing half a grain of sulphate of atropine dissolved in a little water, with directions to apply a drop or two while he saw other patients. By some error, the whole quantity was applied to the eyes in the course of ten minutes, and acute symptoms of poisoning were speedily mani- * ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. t 4 Uber die Verbindung von Ophthalmia und Angina Granulosa.' % ' Gaz. Ilehdom.,' 1867. § ' Gaz. des Hopitaux,' 1867.