49 GOUT. and in what doses, which are the best preparations, and whether iodide of potassium should be given after it. The proper treatment of mucous tubercles is also doubtful. Again, supposing a patient with secondary or tertiary symptoms bas never had mercury, need we give him a course of it before using iodide of potassium ? As regards inunction, he speaks very highly, but in practice does not use it. He recommends corrosive sublimate as soon as the constitutional symptoms have appeared, and to be continued for some months. He believes that iodide of potassium is only effective when mercury has been previously given ('Union Med.,' 1867). Other papers, &c, on the subject of constitutional syphilis are— Diagnosis'and treatment of brain-syphilis (Dr. Diego Coco, "6I1 Morgagni," ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 138. p. 24, 1868). Connection between pemphigus neonatorum and syphilis (• Memorab.,' xii, 10, 1867; ' Schmidt,' 138, p. 200, 1868).* Syphilitic affection of the testes (Bertholle, ' Union Med.,' 5, 1868). History, pathology, and treatment of syphilis (Dr. A. Geigel, 8vo, Wiirzburg, 1867). Obscure case of inveterate syphilitic ulceration, complicated with sycosis (Guibout, ' Union Med.,'61, 1867). Syphilitic tumour of the brain; congestion of optic papilla seen by the ophthalmoscope (J. W. Hulke, cases of optic neuritis, • Ophth. Hosp. Rep.,' April, 1868). Gout. Dr. Charcot analyses the causes of gout: I. Individual causes.—(1) Spontaneous development.—Charcot considers that there is sufficient evidence in favour of the idea of a constitutional predisposition which favours the development of gout spontaneously. External circumstances, by accidentally increasing the amount of uric acid in the blood, produces gout in these subjects. (2) Hereditary predisposition.—Charcot quotes the statements of various authors to prove the frequency of hereditary transmission. Hereditary gout is often premature, appearing before the age of thirty or thirty-five; it is apt to appear about the same age in all the members of some families. (3) Sex.—Females enjoy a great immunity from gout; where it • occurs in women it ordinarily happens at the change of life. In this : respect it differs from chronic rheumatism, which usually appears much 1 earlier in life. Women are also most subject to the low type of gout. (4) Age.—As a rule, the most usual period for gout is between ' thirty and thirty-five, though the first attack may occur either earlier or later. _ Bheumatism, on the contrary, usually makes its appearance before thi3. (5) Constitution.—No degree of original strength or weakness exempts ■ any one from gout, but, as a rule, the type of the disease corresponds :to the general strength of the system. < IE. Hygiesic causes.—(i) Climate.—Gout belongs almost exclu- sively to the temperate zone, although Europeans living in hot climates :may suffer the disease if they continue the habits of their native country. (2) Full diet and want of exercise.—These are always recognised causes of gout; it predominates also iu the higher classes of society, 4