418 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. day of illness ; pus and dead adipose cellular tissue were let out. She was quite well at the end of four weeks. The other cases ran a similar course; the chief features being repeated attacks of fever, ushered in with shivering'; profuse sweating, and outbreak of miliary rash following, and a tendency to the formation of abscesses. The eruption consisted in small vesicles with a red base appearing on the chest, arms, abdomen, and thighs. The patients were treated with quinine and Dover's powder, and, it seemed, with good effect (' Annali Universali di Med. Milano,' 1868). ' The experience of the Milan Lying-in Hospital is not such as to redeem the character of similar institutions in respect to the propaga- tion of puerperal fever. Out of 478 labours, there were 23 cases of puerperal fever, 12 of metritis, and 20 of "miliary fever;"'13 ended fatally. This result is considered favorable, and credit is taken, and certainly due, to Prof. Lazzati, for the rigorous care he had exercised in isolating patients on the first appearance of illness, and in enforcing other hygienic measures. Owing to this care the hospital was preserved free from any epidemic during the first eleven months of the year. It is true that several sporadic cases occurred during the year, and that eight ended in death; but before December there was* no spreading. In this month 12 cases occurred, of which 5 died. The rise of the epi- demic is ascribed to the admission of a case, at the end of November, of a patient in labour, who had to be delivered by cephalotripsy. She was admitted in a state of extreme prostration, with tympanitis. Labour had been in action for 43 hours, and a dirty-brown fetid liquid was dis- charged from the vagina; the foetus had been dead some time. She died 23 hours after the operation, with symptoms of puerperal fever. Suppurative peritonitis was found. The influence of the zymotic or hospital miasm is seen in the history of the diseases attending the pre- valence of undoubted puerperal fever. Dr. Casati says puerperal fever represents the prototype of all the zymotic diseases of puerpera); that is, metritis, not permanent, inflammatory, mostly accompanied by miliaria, essential miliary fever, phlebitis of the lower extremities, re- present simply a minor severity of the evil, but depends upon the same' zymotic cause. These affections are found to prevail simultaneously with puerperal, fever. "When puerperal fever breaks out these affec- tions appear in the hospital. When the fever is driven out the affec- tions described vanish. The same treatment had similar effects. The children born of women affected with puerperal fever, or these cognate diseases, were equally liable to sicken and die, or to be born dead ('Annali Universali di Medicina, Milano,' 1867). There is an elaborate memoir on " Maternities," by Dr. Louth, of Strasbourg, in the ' Annales d'Hygiene,' &c, 1867. In it are fully dis- cussed the conditions necessary for promoting puerperal fever. He recognises, with Lefort and most recent French authors, the sad fatality that seems inevitably and especially to attach to lying-in hospitals. No doubt, the logic of facts will in time lead to efforts to establish charit- able institutions for domiciliary midwifery ; and then the difficult pro- blem how to construct and to administer a lying-in hospital with safety to the patients will be less imperative.