REPORT ON MEDICAL JUIUSPKUDENCE. 472 * 'Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxvii, p. 76, 354. is due to greater supervision. It is certain, at all events, that many lunatics are now placed in public and private establishments who formerly were left at large, and in this way a considerable increase may be accounted for. M. Brierre de Boismont concludes a long article on moral insanitv, entitled "Do l'lmportance du Delire des Actes," with the following propositions :* (i) There exists a variety of mental aberration in which the subjects express themselves with every resemblance of reason, and which is called reasoning folly {folic raisonnante)—the moral insanity of the English. A knowledge of it is acquired with the greater facility the more the sane man, from whom the insane one is a derivation, is observed. (2) This variety of insanity is met with in different forms, more especially in those of maniacal excitement, melancholia, impulsive monomania, &c. (3) This manifestation of insanity, wliich is but a symptom, is some- times so predominant that the accessory seems to occupy the place of the principal affection. Prolonged observation of cases' of this kind generally ends iu the discovery of some of the principal symptoms of mental aberration. (4) The decisive characters of reasoning folly are the delirium of acts and instinctive evil propensities, contrasting with rational discourse. Intellectual disorder will, however, frequently show itself in conversation when the patient is not on his guard. (5) The persistence of reason in the speech of these patients, an almost in- destructible attribute of this faculty, may present itself in the patient's writing, but when he is observed for any length of time the delirium of acts is revealed also in his letters. (6) The recognition of reasoning insanity is very important from a medico-legal point of view, as the subjects of this affection are generally inclined to do mischievous acts. Anonymous and calumnious charges, plottiug, false and imposing letters, lying in every form, suicide, homicide, accusations of bodily violence, theft, immorality, lawsuits for unjustifiable impeachment, &c, are the common acts of reasoning lunatics. (7) An in^ortant diffe- rential character separates the individual who is mentally sane from the reasoning lunatic. The former, when he is not guilty, repudiates any evil impulse, or repents of it if he has been acting under such an im- pulse ; the reasoning madman, on the other hand, hardly troubles him- self about such acts, and seldom thinks that they are reprehensible. (8) Another character, which is not of less value, is the impossibility of the patient carrying out any steady course of action during the per- sistence of his illusions. (9) Finally, when the reasoning fool hides his ideas, causes doubt about them, and does not commit hurtful acts, the only course is to permit him his liberty, warning him that he is the arbiter of his lot in life. Moral insanity is a disease not recognised by our English law-courts ; moreover, it is certain that some of the cases given in detail by M. Brierre de Boismont would not be considered to be cases of insanity in this country, whilst in others there were periods of undoubted mental aberration.