275 FltACTURE AND DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. the disease which, perhaps, is the most favorable for an operation. An encephalocele or spina bifida occasionally undergoes a spontaneous cure by suppuration of the sac, and gradual obliteration of its cavity; and, no doubt, the great success of the operation in the present case was owing to the natural cure having commenced. " The pathology of the tumour is interesting, as showing— " First. That although the canal or communication between the sac or cavity and the interior of the cranium may be closed, it may still remain pervious in the pedicle or neck. " Second. That a distinct process not composed, of nervous elements may pass down from the interior of the cranium into the walls of an encephalocele. " It is, however, possible that this process was originally composed of nervous tissue, which had undergone some change in the progress of the case." Three cases of spina bifida treated by the injection of iodine, with complete cure in two cases, and. in the third probable cure frustrated by the fault of the child's friends, are related by Dr. Oaradec (' L'Union Medicale,' 1867, vol. i, pp. 402—467). Fracture and dislocation of the spine.—In the ' Lancet,' April 6, 1867, Mr. Bryant gives some statistics of injury of the spine, in order to show that pure dislocation is less rare than is usually taught. The cases were collected by Mr. Bryant during five years, while acting as Burgical registrar to Guy's Hospital, ending in 1858. " Out of 46 cases of injury to the spine admitted into Guy's Hos- pital during that period, there were 24 cases of dislocation, fracture, or both combined. In 10 of these the injury was in the cervical region; in 14 the dorsal. "In 17 examples the nature of the injury was verified by a post- mortem examination; in 7 no such was made. Our observations will consequently be confined to the 17, in which no source of fallacy can be made out. Of the 17 cases, 6 were examples of pure dislocation, 3 oipure fracture, and 8 of dislocation and fracture combined. ''Amongst the 10 cases of injury to the cervical region, 5 were pure < dislocation; 2 between the fourth and fifth cervical, 2 between the I fifth and sixth, 1 between the seventh cervical and first dorsal. Five 1 were dislocations and fractures combined. In each the body of the " vertebra was dislocated forwards from the one below; the arti- cular processes were separated at their joints, and in each there was a fracture through the spinous processes or laminae of the upper or dislocated vertebra, the dislocation taking place at the lower surface of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh vertebra? respectively. "It will thus be seen that out of 10 cases of injury to the cervical vertebra;, half were cases of pure dislocation, or 50 per cent. "Amongst the 14 cases of injury to the dorsal region, 1 was a pure dislocation between the eleventh and twelfth vertebra?, the liga- ments normally connecting all the joints were ruptured, and the body of the eleventh thrown forwards. In 3 the eleventh dorsal vertebra