LABOUB, 895 Clinique. The placenta had firmly adhered to tho septum, between the two uterine cavities. This septum being unable to contract was, M. Bailly thought, the cause of the haemorrhage (' Bull, do la Soc. Anat.,' 1867). III. LABOTTE. On the Mechanism of Labour. Dr. Spiegelberg contends that the transverse position of the head at the brim of the pelvis is more frequent than the oblique. In 700 normal cases observed he found 570 heads in the transverse diameter ; in an oblique diameter, only 1.30 heads. The child's back is to one side of the mother; the head, with its sagittal suture, in the longest or transverse diameter of the pelvis. If the transverse diameters of the uterus and of the brim are parallel, the sagittal suture enters transversely; if the transverse diameter of the uterus lies in an oblique diameter of the pelvis, the head will enter the brim in this direction. The uterus, in addition to its common inclination to one side (Dubois), is sometimes twisted a little on its axis in the direction of its inclination. In whatever direction the head enters the pelvis, in that will it be driven into the cavity, and will only make its rotation on its vertical axis in the lower half of the pelvis (' Mon. f. Geb.,' Feb. 1867). On the condition of the uterus in obstructed labour, and an inquiry as to what is intended by the terms " cessation of labour-pains," " power- less labour," and exhaustion, by Braxton Hicks (' Obst. Trans.,' ix). He maintains that danger attends continuous action, that this is the cause of "powerless labour," and that when the uterus is lax we can wait. See also "Pain and Anaesthetics," by Sansom (ibid.). Dr. Schroder, of Bonn, discusses the value of the different methods of measuring the true conjugate diameter of the pelvis in the living. Having measured many pelves in the living and in museums, he con- cludes that—(1) The method of Baudelocque has no particular value in the estimation of narrow pelves; for accurate measurement it cannot be used; at best it is only useful as a controlling method. He verities by examples the experience of Michaelis, who showed that the deduc- tion to be made from the external conjugate diameter, in order to esti- mate the true conjugate, cannot be assumed as a fixed quantity, but varies extremely. Thus, in 68 pelves (28 normal, 40 abnormal), there were 7 cases in which a deduction of 2" io-|"' had to be made; 8 in which the deduction was 2" 11 in which it was 3" 1"'; 6 in which it was 3" a'"; 9 in which it was 3" 4"'; 6 in which it was 3" 64'". The deduction necessary ranged from a minimum of 2" 4A/" to a maxi- mum of 3" 74/", instead of the final deduction of 3" to 3^", stated by Baudelocque. The kind of pelvis influences the amount of deduction. Thus, in dried pelves the flat pelvis is distinguished by the greatness, the generally contracted pelvis by the smallness. A radical error arises in this, that in Baudelocque's diameter a measurement is evaded. The romontory in almost every case stands above the line of junction, etween the symphysis and the spinous process of the last lumbar yer-