PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR ATROPHY. 05 An attempt at the use of the " lahile " current had done harm. In the fiual treatment Dr. Hitzig applied galvanization of the great nerve trunks. The patient got a relapse nine months after his first cure, in consequence of immoderate excitement. The same treatment as before improved him at first, but the symptoms again got worse. Besides his old complaint there were spasms in the lower extremities and one half of the body, and highly exalted sensibility of the skin; trembling in the hands, especially the one of the opposite side, increased by volun- tary movements. Involuntary movements soon afterwards came on, accompanying every voluntary muscular action. However, all this passed ofi" again. The patient was finally left with somewhat diminished muscular activity, but able to do his work. He had some uncertainty of the right hand and some pains in the back, with changes of the tem- perature. The sense of touch and locality were but little changed at all. The author believes that the original cause was meningitis, fol- lowed by subsequent changes in the nutrition of the cord. He did not feel justified, notwithstanding some symptoms, in treating it for tabes, because the paralysis was of a very high degree at first, and the pains in the back were very prominent. The eccentric pains in tabes are never persistent. The pains were never spread over the whole body, but usually very limited. Besides this, the constant current, like every other remedy, is useless in tabes (' Virchow's Archiv,' xl, 3 and 4, 1867). Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Dr. C. Hilton Bagge makes a contribution to the electrical treat- ment of this disease. During two years he has had under his care ten cases, all of which have been mainly and most solely treated by the continuous current from the Daniell's battery. The positive pole was applied to the back of the head or neck, the negative pole over the spine, not higher than the fifth cervical vertebra. The current is al- lowed to pass for a quarter of an hour at a time, and was used daily. The method is Beinak's, and Dr. Bagge verifies the occasional occur- rence of the so-called diplegic contractions of the paralysed parts. The first case, that of a man aged 27, which was comparatively recent, yielded very quickly to the treatment; in three months he was quite well. The second case, which was of two years' standing, was not at all benefited. The third case was also not very decidedly improved. A fourth case was an extreme one, and no remedies were at all useful: the man died. In a fifth case, that of a woman aged 32, no very clear results were produced. It seems a little doubtful that the disease was genuine progressive muscular atrophy, as there were spasmodic symp- toms of a very unusual kind. The continuous current was applied daily for a long time, and ultimately the patient recovered almost en- tirely. It must be remarked, however, that quinine had been simul- taneously used. Three cases were treated by induced currents. It seems very doubtful whether one of them, which was greatly benefited by faradisation, was not a case of lead paralysis. The next case was that of a man, aged 47, who had had the disease for seven months. The muscles of the shoulders were very much wasted and affected with twitchings. Faradisation was ordered every other day, and the patient