IIEPOB.T ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 490 In a postscript Mr. Siinon touches upon the chief topics discussed at the cholera conference held at Weimar, at Easter, 1867. At this con- ference the doctrine for which Pettenkofer has long contended, that the " caprices " of cholera, as to its places and times of prevalence, have their respective roots in different qualities and different states of local soil, was illustrated by many examples. One such, as to places, was a geological map of Thuringia, with the epidemics of 1866 marked upon it, where at a glance it was seen that the epidemics in that large and varied area had been almost exclusively on one geological formation. And equally striking in the same sense were some illustrations on a smaller scale showing extremely definite boundaries of non-prevalent or minor prevalence of cholera, coincident with equally abrupt distinc- tions of local soil. Similarly as to "time caprices " of the disease, facts of considerable interest were adduced in support of Pettenkofer's view, that the different behaviour of cholera at different times in the same place is determined by temporary differences of soil, i. e. by variations in different seasons in the thickness of superficial porous soil, which is left unoccupied by " subsoil-water " and consequently penetrable by air, variations which in many cases can be inferred from the varying Avater-level of the surface-wells. A very striking set of reports related to some supposed successes, and some unquestionable non-successes, of chemical disinfection, where it had been used in the hope of preventing or arresting epidemics of cholera. The very remarkable account which Dr. ¥m. Budd, of Bristol, has published,* and which must be familiar to our readers, of the almost entire exemption of that place from cholera in 1866, under a system of disinfection which the medical officer, Mr. Davies, had applied with singular assiduity and completeness. On the other hand, in Leipzig, Prof. Victor Carus had the town divided into 100 disinfection districts, each with an officer who visited daily for dis- infection with sulphate of iron every house in his district; over these district officers were four young chemists, constantly inspecting, under Dr. Carus's instructions, to see that all disinfection was satisfactory; and Prof. Carus himself, besides superintending all this work personally, every day visited all houses which had cholera in them. Disinfection had never before been tried in Leipzig, yet never had Leipzig suffered so severely from cholera. In Stettin, all choleraic discharges were treated with lime and chloride of lime ; but in all the 13 cholera epidemics of the town never had the disease been so severe. In Erfurt carbolic acid was used so lavishly that the very drinking-water reeked and tasted of it; testifying, by-the-bye, to a dangerous proximity of wells to cess- pools ; but cholera was three times more fatal there than it had ever been. Finally, Mr. Simon insists strongly upon the contagium of cholera being transmitted through the excrements, and upon its con- nection with water supply. Perhaps the most striking article that has appeared for a long time upon this interesting subject is by Prof. Max von Pettenkofer, of Munich, on the " Immunity of Lyons from Cholera, and the Occurrence * 'British Med. Journ.,' 1S67,i,p.413.