RKPORT ON SURGERY. ■zn been caused by exposure to cold in long standing on the ice. Amputa- tion had been recommended. The child recovered rapidly and com- pletely, and the ultimate result is thus stated : " At present (March 7) the boy attends school, and walks and runs in ordinary shoes without difficulty. Scarcely any limp remains, and no apparatus has been necessary. The foot has become reduced almost to the size of its fellow; the inversion has disappeared, and the heel is resuming a natural appearance, growing firm and full. The tendo Achillis has become strongly united, and the movements of the foot, witli the exception of eversion, which was very limited before the ope- ration, are performed with facility. It is no exaggeration to charac- terise the result as very satisfactory." Resection of the whole tarsus,—In 1 Langenbeck's Archiv,' viii, p. 173, Dr. Jaesche, of Nishni Novgorod, has published his experience of various resections. Amongst others he gives some particulars of a case in which he extirpated all the tarsal bones, preserving, however, the attachment of the tendo Achillis. As the operation proved fatal from pyaemia in the third week, no conclusion as to the value of the operation can be deduced from it, but its unusual nature appeared to entitle it to notice. Dr. Jaesche did not anticipate such extensive caries as he found. He intended to have removed the anterior ends of the astragalus and calcaneum, with a portion of the cuboid, and possibly the scaphoid. Accordingly he made a transverse incision across the foot at the level of the joints between those bones, and a short longitudinal incision on either edge of the foot. After extirpating, however, the whole astra- galus and the os calcis, except a small portion of its back part, which was left attached to the tendon, like an empty egg-shell, it was found that the anterior tarsal bones were equally diseased, and the}' were all removed, together with the head of the second metatarsal bone. Dr. Jaesche says the bleeding from the dorsal arch of vessels was trifling, but he does not exactly specify what parts were divided. He says that the tendons and vessels would have been better avoided had he been prepared for so extensive an excision, if he had used two long incisions, one on either side. After death the principal wound was found almost healed, and there was a considerable quautity of pus in the sheath of the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and also in the deep part of the wound. The external malleolus had been broken off, and Mas in process of death. The following extracts refer to affections of the brain, nerves, spinal cord, and organs of special sense. Trephining the skull.—In 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1865, 127, p. 60, Martini gives an abstract of some recent contributions to the subject of trephining in injuries of the head. The first is that of Fischer, in the 'Archiv f. Klin'. Chir.,' vi, 3, p. 595, 1865. This author gives 5 cases in which, after injury to the head, producing compound comminuted fracture with depression, suppurative meningitis came on in a few days, followed by death, antiphlogistic measures being of no avail. This, he says, cannot be attributed merely to exposure and contusion of the