INTERSTITIAL ENCEPHALITIS. 79 dozen cases, and these only in infants less than a month old. _ It is not to be supposed that the alteration is found in all infants dying at this age. There is no doubt that in many cases no such changes are present. Isolated nucleated cells, or scattered fatty changes in the vessels, are naturally found. It is specially to be noticed that there are fatty changes frequently in the sheaths and walls of the vessels which have no necessary relation with encephalitis. The characteristic sign of the latter affection is that the change takes place in the cells of the neuroglia, and even in the white substance; and although the vessels, whether capillaries or larger ones, sometimes participate in the change, this is by no means necessary. On the contrary, the vessels may be alto- gether healthy. The condition of the vessels in encephalitis may be very various. Not to speak of the fatty degeneration of the walls already mentioned, there is the greatest variety in their contents. In some cases (though these are rare) the vessels are empty. In others even the smallest are filled. In others the vessels are unequally dilated. The latter condition gene- rally goes along with extreme fatty changes. The altered condition of the neuroglia is so easy to be recognised with the microscope that the state of the vessels need not be investigated in order to decide the diagnosis. It is otherwise, however, in settling the nature of the process. Hayem raises the question whether all cases of fatty changes of the cells of the neuroglia must be considered inflammatory. He says that we may well assume this in all cases of this nature in which there is great vascularity and dirty grey or yellow colour without softening, but with exudation and nucleated cells in various points ; but other cases are not necessarily so. Virchow does not agree with this opinion. Neither formation of new vessels nor hypersemic injection is necessary. The latter is a variable element, which may disappear after death, although it was present up to the fatal moment. Of course it is of im- portance when we find it on dissection, but its absence proves nothing. Much more important are the local adventitious changes which Virchow dwelt upon in his former treatises. These, however, are only found at the most diseased points. Around them are discovered the regularly diffused changes, which in some cases are the only alterations present. There can be no doubt that the yellowish and greyish points are the result of inflammation. It is necessary here to mention a peculiar form of softening which sometimes occurs. The spots of this kind of soften- ing contain peculiar spindle-shaped bodies, which consist of altered axis-cylinders. They may be easily mistaken for connective-tissue-cor- puacles. It is difficult to recognise them as parts of a broken-up axis- cylinder, unless they are very carefully examined, when it will be found that they contain nerve-fibres surrounded with myeline. The nerve- tube often looks varicose. It is obvious that the above-described process resembles much the changes in the retina in albuminous nephritis. In the latter also we have fatty changes of the interstitial cells, and that varicose enlarge- ment of the axis-cylinder which Midler first described. (' Virchow's Archiv,' iv, 4, 1868.)