40 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Rheumatism. Dr. Salisbury has discovered a fungus in the blood of rheumatic patients. He calls this zymotosis translucens, and depicts the spores and the branches of it; these, however, have no characteristic distinction from many other fungi which this author has described as present in many various diseases. Dr. Salisbury recognises four different forms of rheumatism according to the amount of uric acid and urates of oxalic acid and its compounds of crystine or of phosphates in the blood. In all the cases of rheumatism observed by him, one of these four combinations was recognised in large quantities by its crystalline forms. He believes that these crystals prove the infiltration and obstruction of the vessels with the fungus above mentioned. The treatment should correspond with the chemical condi- tion prevailing in the blood.—'Americ. Jour.,' Oct. i86j. Dr. Day follows Prof. Mitchell, of Philadelphia, in favour of the origin of rheumatic phenomena from lesion of the spinal nerves. He thinks it has close relationships with cerebro-spinal meningitis. He thinks the result of Davies's blistering treatment corresponds with this idea, and he mentions a case of his own in which, by the simple application of cupping-glasses along the spine, he obtained a more rapid cure than he had ever done by other treatment.—' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Aug. 1867. Fatal Rheumatism with Sigh Temperature. Some remarkable cases of this kind have been observed in England within the last two years. Dr. Ringer describes several in the ' Med. Times and Gazette,' ii, 1867, which appear to be of the same character as those previously described by various observers in Germany and France; they are distinguished by the suddenness with which a fatal issue occurs, apparently from loss of nervous power; but to Ringer and Kreuser belongs the credit of noticing the extremely high temperature, as much as no or 111 degrees, which distinguished a fatal attack. Dr. Weber reports very carefully two cases of this kind to the Clinical Society of London. In the first the patient, a man, aet. 45, had the ordinary symptoms of acute rheumatism till the twelfth day, when signs of endo- carditis occurred, with great restlessness, deafness, noises in the head, excessive urination next day, violent delirium and vomiting, rapidly followed by coma and rise of temperature to 109-5, with intense fever. Death occurred five hours from the beginning of delirium, and the body rapidly decomposed. Of the second case, a young man, ast. 25, had seemingly an ordinary acute rheumatism, but with great depression of spirits. On the twelfth day signs of endocarditis occurred, with deafness, increased urination, and action of the bowels. Next day violent delirium, soon followed by coma and very high temperature; death three hours from beginning of delirium. Eapid decomposition after death; fluid state of the blood; ecchymosed spots underneath pericardium, pleura, and in tissue of lungs, also on liver and kidneys. The onset of fatal symptoms and the termination were remarkably alike in both these patients; both were highly nervous persons, and had