MELANCHOLIA FROM EMBOLISM OF THE BRAIN-VESSELS. 75 stance moist and soft; a few drachms of clear serum in the ventricles ; in the pericardium a few drachms of clear fluid. The heart was soft, and its tissue fatty; the free edge of the mitral valve and the tendinous cords around it were shortened and thickened ; in the neighbourhood of the free border there was a circle of tough, pale red vegetation; fluid and shghtly coagulated blood in the cavities of the heart. Microscopic examinations of the false membranes and brain showed connective tissue- like matter, with haemorrhage and with new vessels; the arachnoid, especially over the convexity of the hemispheres, was spotted with molecular formation; considerable spots in this were thickened with a fibrous formation, containing many roundish or oval cells, and often with granular nuclei. In many places there were bodies with concen- tric layers, containing in the middle pale molecules of various sizes; those bodies arranged themselves in numerous polypoid swellings on the arachnoid, which at their edges frequently showed a division, and in the interior a number of small pale bodies of various forms. The vessels of the pia mater were half again as large as usual, con- tracted at some points, and much contorted, and filled with dark red blood. This dark red contents of the arterial vessels disappeared imme- diately on section, and the rest of the vascular stem down to its branches was filled with yellowish-white molecular masses, obviously of the nature of embolism. Usually an embolism was found at a bifurcation of the vessel, and extended a long way into the branches, without, how- ever, filling these or the trunk of the vessel, so that there was not com- plete obstruction to circulation. The embolisms were sometimes more and sometimes less yellow in colour, and of a more or less minute molecular structure, and of varying firmness. The positions of the embolisms were on the convex surfaces of the frontal and posterior lobes of both hemispheres, and were of such a kind that a piece of pia mater taken from the foremost part of the frontal lobe showed under the microscope embolisms only in a few vessels, but in the neighbour- hood of the central anterior convolutions there were embolisms in nume- rous vessels. In the tissue of the arachnoid and between the vessels there was a quantity of brownish-red pigment, and also in the ventricles, where the vessels were bordered with a broad hyaline margin and reddish pigment. The vessels of the pia mater were dilated even where there were no embolisms. Many capillaries of the pia were thickened and surrounded with fine fibres. In one place the capillary artery and all its twigs were enveloped in connective tissue. At some places the cortical substance showed its arteries dilated and filled with embolic masses. The embolism of the brain-vessels was of the same kind as that in the vessels of the pia. The nerve-cells of the cortex in the neighbourhood of the embolism were partly atrophied, partly filled with fatty bodies, and deposits of finely granular fat were found around em- bolic deposits. The finely granulated nucleated substance of the cortex was cloudy, dark coloured, and in many places filtrated, resembling the appearances in general paralysis. The spinal cord was also much altered; the central grey matter showed, at the lumbar swelling and iu the lower part of the dorsal region, only a striking pigmentation of the large cells of the anterior horns. From the lower two thirds up to the