389 DISEASES OF THE PllEGNANT WOMAN. inner and upper part of the thighs. But lie relates a striking aggravated case in which similar scars were found in a woman who had never been pregnant. He next considers pregnancy as an indirect cause of sanguineous dyscrasia, of organic alterations of the heart, and nervous disorders. On one side there is greater activity of the reducing acts, tending to impover- ish the blood ; and on the other there is an absolute deficiency in the reconstructive acts, both together leading to anaemia, that is, to aglo- bulisin, hydremia, oligasmia, leucocythaimia. The earliest effects of this state are syncope, palpitations, vague sensations in the head, classed as headache, tendency to sleep, distress in the limbs, easily induced distress in breathing, dyspepsia, often, says De Cristoforis—referring to ideas prevalent in Italy—interpreted as signs of plethora, and being treated by free bleedings. The loss of muscular tone induces more feeble impulse of the heart; the pulse becomes soft and compressible ; the respiratory acts are weakened, inducing deficient oxygenation ; the nervous centres, ill nourished, give occasion to syncope, apathy. Nutri- tion being impaired, the patient emaciates and becomes pale. The loss of fibrin and albumen, rendering the blood thin, disposes to cedemas. If in this state labour supervene, and a moderate loss of blood occur— if labour be protracted—if imprudent movement, as rising in bed, vomiting, &c, take place—the weakened heart is overcome, and death easily follows. The heart, badly nourished, falls into denutrition, its tissue retrogrades, and is supplanted by fat. The nervous system is variously affected. Obstinate vomiting is one effect. It is to be combated by regulated and nutritious diet, with diet rather than with medicines, which commonly fail. Asthmatic attacks and tonic cramps deserve special attention. In the first disorder there are no auscultatory signs; it is pure neurosis. In the second the spasm is at first localised in the upper limbs, face, and neck. The general clonic contractions occur. The muscles become painful, the limb rigid; attempts to straighten it cause pain. A febrile condition supervenes. This disorder disappears after pregnancy, but is liable to be reproduced in subsequent pregnancies. Pregnancy considered as a determining cause in the production of marbid forms predisposed by other causes.—He describes under this head a series of cases of dropsy, or serous effusions in the serous cavi- ties, developed by pregnancy in poor women admitted from the aguish districts, exhausted by frequent labours, suckling, hard work, and malaria. He observes that the dropsies are such as pregnancy can produce alone, and which it is more powerful to produce under the cited persisting conditions. Premature labour was a frequent result. This indication the author insists upon; but in several cases, where advancing asphyxia precluded this, gastro-hysterotomy was performed the moment the last beatings of the heart announced the cessation of life. As to the influence of pregnancy upon existing nervous diseases, he narrates two cases of epilepsy, which at every pregnancy was greatly ai'irravated both in the frequency and the severity of the fits ('Annal. Univ. di Med. Milano,' Jan. 1867). lietrovenion of the gravid womb is also discussed by Do Cristoforis