444 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. that soporific effects may be produced in man by the salts of methyl- morphium when given in very large doses. The manner in which nicotia acts is not precisely known. It would appear, however, that the convulsive movements which always occur during nicotia-poisoning are not among the symptoms produced by either iodide or sulphate of methyl-nicotium. It was also found that this modification is not due to an action of the changed substance on the motor nerves, for it was ascertained that paralysis of neither the trunks nor end-organs of these nerves existed after the action of the above salts. Drs. Brown and Eraser also examined the action of some of the iodides prepared by the addition of iodide of ethyl to the alkaloids, and found, as they expected, that it is the same as that of the corresponding methyl-compounds. Some experiments were made to determine the physiological action of iodide of methyl. The only bearing of these on the present investi- gation is, that no evidence was obtained in support of the extremely improbable hypothesis that some of the changes produced in the action of the substances described might have been due to the addition of the physiological action of the methyl-compounds. Concluding from these facts that when a nitrile base possesses a strychnia-like action, the salts of the corresponding ammonium bases have an action identical with that of curare, they remark that it is in- teresting to observe such a relationship, and that strychnia and curare are derived from plants belonging to the same genus. None of the alkaloids examined have, however, been converted into curarina, the active principle of curare, though the actions of the methyl-derivatives of these alkaloids are of precisely the same character as those of curare. The dose in case of the most active of the artificial alkaloids is con- siderably greater than that of curare, and much above that of curarina. Besides, curarina has a characteristic colour reaction that belongs to none of these bodies; and the latter further prove their dissimilarity by each of them possessing special colour reactions by which they may be distinguished from each other, the colour reactions of the alkaloids being retained by their methyl-derivatives. This may probably prove of importance to the medical jurist; and as these compounds are not precipitated by alkalies nor by alkaline carbonates, some difficulty may be met with in discovering their presence in cases of poisoning. Though methyl-strychnia and its congeners require to be given in much larger doses than curare, yet the facility with which the former may be obtained in a state of purity and the greater certainty of their dose make them present many advantages in a therapeutical point of view. The action of morphia, also, is not a simple one. In addition to its chief action as a soporific, it exerts a stimulant effect on the spinal cord. The soluble salts of methyl-morphium have been shown to possess a narcotic, but no spinal stimulant action. It is, therefore, hoped that they will prove advantageous substitutes for morphia. Cutaneous absorption of poisons.—M. Eoussin* has been led by the observation of two cases of fatal poisoning in workers in Schweinfurt # 'Ann. d'Hyg./ xxviii, p. 179.