Ill THB CAUSES Of COUGH. In Emphysema. Respiration is never free. Drumminess of chest invariable. Intercostal depressions effaced. In Asthma. Respiration may be perfectly free in in- tervals. Chest only drumming at paroxysms. Intercostal depressions strongly marked, especially at each inspiring effort. Dr. Hill ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' April n, 1868) recommends valerian in hooping-cough and laryngismus stridulus, whilst Dr. Cheadle in the same journal (June 13, 1868) gives a case in which bromide of potassium (16 gr. in twenty-four hours) seemed to do good. Dr. Horace Dobell (same journal, June 27, 1868) recommends ergot of rye as a remedy for haemoptysis. Here is Dr. Dobell's prescription, on which comment is needless :—B> ErgotaB Liquidae 5\j (to contract the vessels) ; Tinct. Digitalis 5ij (to steady the heart); Acid. Gallic. 5j (to clot the bloou) ; Magnes. Sulph. 5vj (to relieve congestion) ; Acid. Sulphuric, dil. 5j (to assist the rest); Inf. Bos. Acid, gviij (to make a mixture). A sixth part to be taken every three hours till haemorrhage be arrested. The Causes of Cough. Dr. Nothnagel has made a series of experiments in order to determine the question what parts of the respiratory apparatus are sensitive in such a manner that their irritation causes a cough. His experiments were made upon cats and dogs. (1) A young strong cat had the hyo- thyToid membrane opened, and a piece of the thyroid cartilage cut out above the vocal cords, so that one could look down clearly upon the cords. When the mucous membrane was' gently irritated, or even pretty strongly excited with a sound, no trace of cough was produced, nor when the irritation was extended to the posterior part of the epi- glottis and the whole extent of the vocal cords. But when once the posterior wall of the larynx was irritated through the glottis there was •violent coughing. From this we learn that irritation of the healthy mucous membrane of the windpipe above the two cords, and of the upper surface of the latter, does not produce cough. A further series of experiments were made to determine whether cough could be pro- duced by irritating the mucous membrane of the trachea. It was dis- covered that this irritation did produce cough, but the cough was not so immediately and easily produced by irritation of the windpipe as of the higher parts. While the slightest irritation of the larynx produced energetic cough, it was necessary to be very much more rough in exciting the trachea in order to produce the same effect. It is also striking to see how quickly the trachea, when opened, loses its sensibility, so that after a time it is impossible to produce a cough. In this way it is easy to see how some experimenters have discovered different results from Nothnagel's. These results obviously bear upon clinical experience. We know, far instance, that in a tolerably severe and recent catarrh of the throat pressure on the sides of the neck, and upon the manubrium, immediately produces cough. Irritation of tho bifurcation of the windpipe