34*2 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. a portion of the margin of the lens and some of the ciliary processes were exposed to view. A good French resume of his conclusions has been given by Dr. Schobbens.* The changes in the nutrition of the eyeball that are produced by injury to its nerves have been carefully studied. The changes which take place in the eye after section of the trifacial are well known, but the explanation of them has been much discussed. Snellen, and after- wards Buttner, were able to prevent these changes in rabbits by giving to the eye a protective covering, formed either by the ear or by a shell, the eyelids being first united by suture. They therefore attributed the ordinary effects to the loss of sensation, which left the eye exposed to irritation from external agents. Schiff, however, maintained that such agents would be only occasional in their operation, and that disturb- ance of the nutrition of the eye must be the usual cause of the phenomena. An experiment, which at first seemed to have failed, has enabled Meissnerf to demonstrate the correctness of Schiff's opinion. He attempted to divide, within the cranium of a rabbit, the trunk formed by the two superior branches of the nerve. The attempt seemed to fail, the sensibility of the conjunctiva and eyelids remaining undi- minished. The animal was kept, and in time the ordinary effects of division of the trifacial appeared; the eye became inflamed, and the cornea ulcerated. Examination discovered that the internal portion of the nerve had been slightly injured by the knife, and it seemed natural to conclude that the disturbance of nutrition was due to the injury to this portion. Meissner has found also a corroborative example. In one of Bur- ner's experiments the sensibility ■was destroyed, but the eye did not become inflamed. It was found that the internal portion of the nerve —the portion wounded by Meissner—had remained intact. Schiff j reports four experiments on cats and rabbits, which support Meissner's conclusions, and show that disturbance of the nutrition of the eye follows an incomplete section of the nerve, or even of the Gasserian ganglion. These experiments show that we cannot, notwithstanding (Snellen's results, attribute neuro-paralytic ophthalmia to the action of external irritants, consequent upon the loss of sensation ; and Schiff quotes cases in the human subject in which there was no loss of sensa- tion, but in which impairment of the nutrition of the eye was due to partial changes in the fifth, exhibited by autopsy. As a contribution to the clinical history of the same question, Dr. Hippel§ reports three cases of impaired nutrition of the eyes in paralysis of the tilth. The first case occurred in a woman 36 years old, who had suffered from various nervous disorders for twenty years, and from frequent haemor- rhages as effects of emotion. The whole of the left side of her body was anaesthetic, and certain regions of the right side of the face. On the right side this partial anaesthesia commenced by acute pain in some branches of the nerve, followed by bleeding from the conjunctiva and ear, then by anaesthesia of the branches attacked. After sometime sensibility was restored, these phenomena being repeated several times, * ' Annales d'Oculistique,' 1868. t ' Zeitschrift fur rationellen Med.,' 1867. + < Gazette Hebdomadaire,' 1867. § ' Archiv fur Ophthalmologic,' xiii, 1.