455 POISONING. plant, growing in marshy places to the height of 6 to 10 feet. Fallot describes it as producing injection of the eyes, convulsive twitchings of the muscles, delirium, incoherent speech, and stupor like that produced by alcohol. Sometimes there is a copious secretion of urine, followed bv recovery. MM. Pecbolier and Saintpierre employed a cold infusion, a "decoction, and a tincture of the bark of the root. These all contained the active principle of the plant in a form soluble in water and in alcohol. It is very similar to strychnia. Administered by the mouth, as well as epidemically, the various preparations caused at first a con- siderable increase, and then a decrease, in the rapidity of the respiration and circidation, sometimes increased sensibility, tetanic spasms, and lastly insensibility, paralysis, and death. Bundu acts on the motor nerves only secondarily, and is not a cardiac poison, since the heart continues to beat after death. Akazga, described by Du Chaillu, is thought by Dr. Eraser to be extracted from a plant of the order Loganiaceas, and probably from an undescribed species of the genus strychnos. The person undergoing the ordeal is compelled to drink an infusion of the plant. From an alcoholic extract Dr. Eraser has obtained an alkaloid, to which he assigns the name aJcazgia. This is a colourless substance, which, crystallizing with difficulty, is soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, benzol, and bisulphide of carbon; but is almost insoluble in water. Its solutions possess alkaline reactions and neutralize acids. Its salts are freely soluble in water, and have a very bitter taste. The bitterness of akazgia is, however, very different from that of strychnia, both in intensity and persistence. The alkaloid is precipitated by most of the general reagents for the vegetable alkaloids ; but these precipitates are invariably amorphous. It affords the same colour reaction as strychnia. No formula has as yet been assigned to akazgia. Its physiological effects are precisely those of strychnia. "We have, therefore, now four alkaloids closely allied in their botanical origin and in their physiological effects—strychnia, brucia, igasuria, and akazgia. Curare.—Preyer* has isolated the active principle of this poison, and demonstrated that it is quite distinct from strychnia and brucia; and Dragendorff,f having subsequently prepared the alkaloid, confirms Preyer's statement. Preyer states that the modes of death from curare and from its alkaloid, curara or curarina, are identical, and result from abstraction of oxygen, strange as this may seem when the external signs of asphyxia—dyspnoea and convulsions—are absent. But this apparent anomaly is readily explained when it is known that all the respiratory movements are annihilated by the poison through paralysis of the muscles of respiration; and thus, if the heart beat vigorously, death from asphyxia must necessarily result. It will be remembered as bearing upon this point, that great discrepancy of opinion is held as to the effect of curare on the inhibitory influence of the prieumofjastric nerve on the heart. J Experiments on animals poisoned by this substance * 'Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1867, p. 463. t ' Rihs. Zeitschr. Pharm.,' v, p. 153 • 1 Zeitschr. Chciii.,' 1867, p. 28. X Vide Retroipect for 1865-6, p. 17.