186 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. more rapid. The suppurative form varies in character according as the pyaemia is primary or secondary. If the former, there will be the signs of pyaemia previous to those of the local affectiou, the prostration will he greater, and rigors more marked. In the latter there will be more pain of the liver, which will sometimes be found enlarged. The spleen is also affected, sometimes containing abscesses. Jaundice is noticeable in both forms. There are generally evidences of metastasis to the lungs or brain. This form of the disorder does not last as long as the other, and the difficulty of its diagnosis is greater. Dr. Jeaft'reson (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 30, 1868) mentions the case of a woman, set. 53, who had long been afflicted with paralysis agitans. She had frequently suffered from pain in the belly. She never offered any indications of gall-stones, and she had never'been jaundiced. She was suddenly seized with pain in the abdomen, and when seen had a pinched look, was very restless, and the breathing was thoracic. The belly was flat and very tender, and she vomited a quantity of dark green grumous material. Opium was given internally, and turpentine applied externally, but to no avail, for she sank in thirty-six hours. "When the body was examined general peritonitis was discovered, the marks being strongest over the caecuin. The stomach was healthy, but the duodenum was firmly attached to the fundus of the gall-bladder, so that in sepa- rating them the former was torn. In the gall-bladder was no bile, but a quantity of gall-stones, some large, some small. Lower down the in- testine, just above the caecal valve, was a slough in the wall, the size of a shilling, corresponding to a sort of pouch in the gut, where a biliary calculus had lain, but which had escaped into the cavity of the abdomen. This, when recovered and taken along with another discovered in the gut, was found to represent a cast of three fourths of the gall-bladder. All the gall-stones were pure cholesterine. The author mentions a case occurring in his brother's practice, where a gall-stone was vomited owing to adhesion of the stomach to the gall-bladder, as was afterwards dis- covered. (The author thinks these calculi had become encysted, and thus given rise to sloughing, and so to peritonitis and death; but in accounting for the occurrence of such lesions just above the ileo-ca?cal valve, it should never be forgotten that at this point the gut passes up from the pelvis to be on a level w7ith the caecum, and that collections of matter are apt to form at its lowest part.—Ed.) Dr. Grainger Stewart ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Eeb. 1868) records a most interesting case of what he terms gastritis phlegmonosa, but which we rather prefer placing under the head of hepatic disease. The subject was a woman, set. 26, who had previously suffered from gall- stones. She complained that she had not received a sufficient amount of food ; and having changed her situation, she showed herself particu- larly fond of animal diet. She was seen by Dr. Stewart, and was then vomiting bile; this symptom proving troublesome, she was ordered effervescing draughts with ice, which did good for the time, but she did not improve, and she was sent to the hospital. There she was vomit- ing almost constantly. She had no purging, but her bowels were open. She complained of great pain in the abdomen, and there was much flatulent distension. Gradually she sank and died. She was not jaun-