REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 94 eating. "Where the pain is not dependent on the causes ahove men- tioned, and where it is aggravated by fasting, arsenic, as a rule, relieves it. If the patient lives in an aguish neighbourhood, or if he has al- ready suffered from ague, or from neuralgia of the face, &c, arsenic is Btrongly indicated. On the other hand, if the papilla? of the tongue are prominent and red, the epigastrium sensitive to pressure, the skin hot and dry, and the pulse rapid, arsenic does more harm than good. Electricity in the Treatment of Neuralgia. Dr. Eenedikt gives a very decided opinion as to the superiority of the constant current over faradization in the treatment of the majority of cases of neuralgia. The whole class of neuralgia? which depend upon central causes, and especially a group which he believes to be very numerous and important, in which the affection originates in the pos- terior nerve-roots, faradization is not merely useless, but hurtful. The apparatus for the continuous current which he recommends is a modi- fication of the Daniell's battery, by Siemens-Halske. "With regard to neuralgia of the fifth, he makes the most important statements as to the good effects of galvanizing the sympathetic nerve with a current from ten or twelve cells at the most. This is an operation which must be most carefully performed. The sittings ought not to be more than half a minute's duration at any time, as the most serious accidents may be produced unless these rules are carefully observed. He relates some astonishing instances of cure of the worst forms of facial tic by this method. In spinal neuralgia the ziuc pole should be placed on any ver- tebra which may happen to be tender, so as to make the current come out through it. "Where the nerve-roots are supposed to be affected the positive pole is fixed upon the vertebra opposite the highest nerve origin that can be concerned, and the zinc pole is stroked down by the side of the spine processes some forty times in succession. This is most effective treatment, and rarely fails to cure in a very short time. Benedikt is particular in stating that pain ought never to be produced in a case of genuine neuralgia. A current so intense as to produce this effect does harm ('Elektro-therapie,' Dr. M. Benedikt, Vienna, 1868). Inflammatory Affections of the Spinal Cord. Dr. Hitzig relates a case of disease of the spinal cord which pre- sented the symptoms of a secondary tabes dorsalis, and which was probably a case of traumatic meningitis. The patient had been ten months ill when he came under his care. There was now great muscular weakness and general emaciation, probably produced by want of appe- tite ; exalted sensibility of the skin to irritation everywhere except in the face. The limbs and trunks were subject to reflex movements on excitement. Pressure on the muscles was very painful, also on the vertebra?, and especially in the intervertebral spaces. The sense of space was extraordinarily diminished. The treatment consisted in the use of the " stabile " downward galvanic current to the cord. After eight seances the spontaneous pains were removed, and mobility was improved. After six weeks' treatment all the nervous symptoms were removed.