EE POET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 80 Aphasia. A great number of papers have been written on this subject of late years. In the 'Biennial Retrospect' for 1865-6, we summed up the opinions of Dr. J. H. Jackson, as the chief representative of knowledge on this subject in England, and gave references to the prin- cipal papers published here and in other countries. Looking back at the years 1867-8, the following are the principal points which we have to mention in connection with this subject. A growing tendency is observed to throw overboard the idea, at first mainly prevalent, that the faculty of speech would be found to be located in some one distinct portion of the brain. The first papers of Bouillaud evidently pointed to a phrenological view, based more or less on those of Gall and Spurzheim. Later came the anatomical researches of Dax and Broca, who showed the frequent concurrence of right-sided hemiplegia and left-sided disease of the brain with the affection in ques- tion. It is to Dr. J. H. Jackson that the credit chiefly belongs of pointing out the insufficiency of this view. In various papers in the 'Lancet' (Feb. 7, t866, Dec. 1867, and July 25, 1868), he insisted, first, that language was a very much more complicated faculty than had been supposed; and, secondly, that if a very large number of fatal cases of aphasia showed lesion about the neighbourhood of the third frontal convolution, that was as much as to say that a large proportion of those cases had lesions in the immediate surroundings of the corpora striata, i. e. in the most important centre and meeting-place of the various fibres of the brain. A similar view was argued at the British Association Meeting at Norwich, in 1868, by Dr. Hughes Bennett. Dr. Jackson has added most important observations on the different degrees with which the intellectual and the emotional kinds of speech are affected. He has shown that the man who cannot by any possibility find the right phrase for a merely indifferent object will swear with vigour and precision. He has shown, too, that aphasia is by no means so rigorously separated off" from other varieties of cerebral disease affecting the intellect on one side, and muscular movements on the other, as had been carelessly supposed by some. There remain, however, a curious series of facts to be explained, in which probably lies the further elucidation of the whole question, al- though that elucidation will probably be of a nature precisely opposite to that which at first sight they seem to indicate. First of all, there is no denying the general fact of the great preponderance of left-sided brain lesion in well-marked aphasia. Secondly, it must be admitted that the third frontal convolution is involved, if it be not the only part affected, in a great majority of cases. In seeking for an explanation of these very curious facts it is necessary to take notice of some special state- ments and theories that have been put forward. First, there is the statement of Gratiolet, that the left frontal convo- lutions are always developed more quickly and completely than the right—a theory which would be exceedingly interesting if true, but which Carl Vogt, no mean authority in such matters, expressly con-