REMOVAL OF TUMOURS BY ELECTROLYSIS. 201 published at Paris in 1863, on the various applications of carbolic or phenic acid (' Do l'Acide Phenique,' &c). In the 'Transactions of the Clinical Soc.,' i, p. 134, Mr. Durham has put on record a case of comminuted fracture of the femur in a healthy lad set. 16, extending into the knee-joint, where he laid open the parts, including the knee-joint, freely, on account of suppuration, mopped them freely out with carbolic acid, and treated them after Lister's method, with perfect success. At the same time, Mr. Durham says that the general results of his practice in the use of carbolic acid do not bear any comparison, in point of success, with those obtained in Scotland. In the ' St. George's Hospital Eeports,' iii, a paper will be found by Mr. Holmes and Mr. Holdernesse, showing the results in forty cases of in- and out-patients, with various injuries, operations, and abscesses, in which Mr. Lister's treatment was pursued. The results were mainly negative, since pysernia, erysipelas, sloughing, and tetanus occurred in about the same proportion as under the ordinary methods of treat- ment. The authors, however, relate some striking cases of kindly union, and are, on the whole, favorably impressed with the method. In the Clinical Society's 'Transactions,' i, p. 138, Mr. Campbell de Morgan calls attention to the favorable results of antiseptic treat- ment in general, with reference to the chloride-of-zinc lotion in par- ticular. In the ' Medical Times,' i, 1868, pp. 256, 282, Mr. W. Adams speaks of Mr. Lister's antiseptic treatment. He attributes the good effects obtained exclusively to closing the wound (which he denominates " the subcutaneous principle"), and wrapping over it a mild antiseptic (" the antiseptic principle"). The use of a strong caustic antiseptic, as in sponging out the wound with pure carbolic acid, is, in his view, delete- rious ; and he does not accept the views which Mr. Lister has adopted from Pasteur as to the dependence of unhealthy action on the presence of minute organie germs in the air. Mr. Adams thinks the best mate- rial for carrying out the antiseptic and subcutaneous principles is the " styptic colloid" introduced by Dr. Eichardson, and described by him in the 'Medical Times,' April 13, 1867—a compound consisting of ether saturated with tannin, with which gun-cotton and tincture of benzoin are mixed. He mentions also the success which has attended in his own and in others' practice from the subcutaneous treatment of wounds, combined, in appropriate cases, with the use of mild antiseptics of various kinds ; and he points out the classes of cases in which each plan, or both plans combined, are to be recommended. On the removal of tumours by electrolysis. (Dr. Althaus, 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 11, 18; Dec. 7, 1867. Dr. Maurice Collis, Dec. 7, 1867).—Dr. Althaus, in the first place, describes the two uses for which electricity may be used in surgery, namely, either as a caustic, or for the purpose of decomposing tissues which it is wished to remove. For the latter purpose he proposes a modification of Daniell's constant battery, the liquids in which the plates are immersed being intimately