REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 470 t ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxix, p. 358. stage that the abdominal organs are softened, Breslau's test is, accord- ing to Liman, inapplicable. Prof. Maschka* also adduces cases in refutation of Breslau's asser- tions, and quotes 2 cases of children who had undoubtedly survived some time after birth, and where the stomach and intestines sank in water. In another case the hydrostatic test completely failed, and vet the stomach and intestines were buoyant. In a stillborn child the lungs sank, whilst the stomach and intestines floated. Maschka thinks that the test fails in those cases where we most need it, viz. when the hydrostatic test yields negative results, and when putrefaction is too far advanced to admit of the application of the proposed test. Cold. Dr. Hoehef contributes a paper on death from severe cold, and the diagnosis of this form of death. After an elaborate review of the various opinions that have been advanced as to the physiological cause of death from cold, be comes to the conclusion that the immediate cause is most probably neuroparalysis, or else paralysis of the heart, and more rarely pressure on the brain. With respect to the post-mortem appearances, he thinks that none of the external appearances—such as freezing and brittleness of the limbs, the absence of decomposition, and the peculiar "corpse" smell, redness and a bloated appearance of the prominent parts, brown streaks in the course of the veins (from thawing), peculiar gelatinous clots in the blood-vessels, separation of the bones at the coronary and sagittal sutures—are of any probative force; while cutis anserina, contraction of the male genitals, rigid and shrunken muscles, circumscribed erythematous redness of the arms, red spots on the face, neck, arms, knees, and exposed parts, are of more value. Internally, hyperemia of the brain and lungs, bright carmine- coloured blood, emptiness or fulness of the stomach, and excessive ful- ness of the bladder are slight helps towards diagnosis; whilst great distension of the heart, with more or less coagulated, thick, black blood, that becomes only slightly reddened on exposure to the air, is of far more import. An accurate opinion as to the cause of death may generally be arrived at from the consideration of the degree of cold to which the body has been subjected, the possibility of the body having lain long unobserved in the locality in which it was found, the totality of the post-mortem appearances, and the presence or absence of lesions which might have caused death independently of exposure to cold. The cornea, if found to be resistent, may aid in forming a diagnosis ; other- wise no conclusion can be drawn from its state. Simulation. Epilepsy.—Dr. AroisinJ has successfully applied the sphygmograph to the detection of simulated epilepsy, a form of simulation which appears to be much practised in France in order to avoid the conscrip- * ' Prag. Vjhschr.,' xciii, p. 134. f ' Horn's Vifirteljahrsschr.,' ix, p. 44.