460 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. the action of CO, and whether the spectroscope affords us, in this case, Araluable aid, is of the highest importance in a medico-legal point of view; since the means of affirming with certainty that a sample of blood has unmistakably been exposed to one of the products of combustion will often put a stop to a long, laborious, and useless investigation. In his own experiments Dr. Gamgee always succeeded in producing the sin- gular coloration of the tissues and blood when animals were destroyed by the fumes of charcoal; but that this is not invariably the case is proved by the numerous cases of poisoning by charcoal fumes winch are recorded, in many of which a dark colour of the blood was noticed. In some cases the florid colour of the blood noticed at first, disappeared after exposure to the air for a short time. That, at any rate, in a large number of cases of poisoning by charcoal fumes the' CO which such fumes contain does induce its peculiar action on the blood, and thus aids in destroying life, is an undoubted fact. That, however, in others C02 is the agent which really kills, whilst in all it aids the fatal event, is proved by incontrovertible facts. Bernard believed that when C02 is inhaled it causes death by a purely physical action, putting a stop to gaseous interchanges between the blood-gases and the inspired air.* That C02 acts injuriously in this way is exceedingly likely, although its poisonous action is due, no doubt, also to its power of displacing a portion of the O from the haemoglobin. As, then, the action of char- coal fumes must be due to the haemoglobin being, under the influence of the CO, changed in constitution, and rendered unfit for respiratory changes, or to the haemoglobin being deprived of 0 by C02, whilst the interchange of gases is arrested by this gas, and as the two latter causes are quite sufficient to produce death, and may exist where the first does not, it is obvious that in some cases of poisoning by charcoal fumes the blood will be found of a dark and venous, and not of a florid colour, and unchanged in its reaction with reducing solutions. The fact that the blood is dark does not prove, however, that such blood is reducible, since it has been often fouud that blood which has been only partially saturated with CO, and has after a lengthened exposure to the air lost its florid colour and become apparently venous, is not completely reduced when treated with reducing solutions. IStoyv, an incomplete reduction is, for medico-legal purposes, as important as the complete absence of reduction, and can be relied on with perfect safety. And although we cannot positively affirm, from the absence of certain changes in the blood, that death has not been caused by charcoal fumes, in a large majority of cases such positive evidence will exist as may justify a very decided opinion being pronounced. The notes which follow refer to the chemical processes employed in testing for the presence of various poisons. Sublimation of the alkaloids.—In 1864 Dr. Helwig, of Mayence.t proposed sublimation as a test for the alkaloids, and in 1865 he pub- lished a book on the subject,! illustrated by numerous photographs * Bernard's ' Lemons,' p. 207. t 1 Yierteljars8chr. f. analyt. Chem.,' 1864, 1. % ' Das Mikroskop in der Toxikologic,' Mainz. 1865.