216 REPORT ON SURGERY. of reach of the knife, whilst at the same time this very act opened the wound. In median lithotomy pressure backwards of the rectum tends to close the wound. No doubt the rectum was not now so often wounded as it was thirty or forty years ago; but it was still very frequently cut, more often, indeed, he thought, than was generally understood." A more full report of Sir ~W. Fergusson's lecture on this subject mav be found in vol. i of the 'Lancet,' 1868, p. i, with reference to four cases thus operated on. Zee on medio-lateral lithotomy.—In the 'St. George's Hospitnl Reports,' iii, p. 27, is the account by Mr. H. Lee of an operation somewhat similar in principle to that of Sir W. Fergusson. An in- cision is made in the median line of the perimeum to within two or three lines of the anus, and from its posterior extremity the incision is prolonged in a circular form round the anus. The rectum is then pushed back and separated from the parts in front by a touch or two of the knife. Then the left forefinger is passed into the rectum to feel for the groove of the staff, which is opened in the membranous portion of the urethra. A probe-pointed knife is next passed into the groove of the staff and along it into the bladder. " The blade of the knife is then directed towards the patient's left side, and some- what backwards, and as it is withdrawn the heel of the knife passes in the direction of the original incision through the skiu—the point of the knife remains very nearly in the median line—a free ex- ternal incision is thus produced, involving no important parts, with a small opening into the bladder." By this operation, which Mr. Lee describes as a very easy one, and of which he relates 3 successful cases, he believes all the risks incidental to the ordinary lateral opera- tion are avoided. Removal of cervical tumours.—In the 'Dublin Quart. Journ.,' Nov. 1867, Mr. Spence publishes a case in which he successfully removed a large and deeply seated cervical tumour. Mr. Spence refers to a similar case, previously published in the same journal, Nov. 1863, in a woman named Jepson. In the present instance the patient was a boy, set. 16. On examination, the tumour, which was somewhat irregular in form, nodulated on the surface, and of a firm consistence, was found to occupy the whole of the left side of the neck. Commencing at a point close under the angle of the jaw, it passed beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then projected towards the surface, extending back to and elevating the anterior margin of the trapezius, and occupying the whole of the supra-scapular and subclavian regions of the neck, where it lay below the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. On the mesial side of the sterno-mastoid, the tumour projected inwards, pressing the larynx and trachea to the right side; it bulged upwards to a level with the os hyoides, and below, it dipped beneath the muscles in front of the trachea, and descended into the supra-sternal fossa. The growth seemed movable, and its margins were pretty well defined.