REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 121- not merely secondarily in consequence of some other disease. In child- hood, as tuhercle of the lung is uncommon, we should here have to do chiefly with the tubercle of the brain membranes ; but this latter affec- tion is very rarely primary, there are nearly always cheesy deposits in the bronchial glands and elsewhere. Equally unsatisfactory, as proofs, are those cases in which an adult, the child of notoriously tuberculous parents himself, becomes tuberculous; for here, both in child and parents, the tuberculosis may have been only the last stage of such processes as have been described. Passing over a great many points of interest, we must finally men- tion Niemeyer's conclusions on the subject of pulmonary haemorrhage, which are as follow : (1) Abundant bronchial haemorrhages occur more frequently than is supposed in people who neither then nor ever afterwards are con- sumptive. (2) In many cases the commencement of consumption is preceded by abundant haemorrhage, but there is no genetic connection between the two, which really arise both from a common source. The patient has, in fact, a predisposition to them both. (3) Haemorrhages from the bronchial mucous membrane proceeding from consumption are sometimes in true genetic connection with it, inasmuch as the haemorrhage may lead to inflammatory processes in the lungs, terminating finally in their breaking down. (4) Bronchial haemorrhages occur much more frequently in the course of a consumption than before the disease. They really refer to the time in which the lung disease was as yet latent. (5) Bronchial haemorrhages occurring in the course of consumption may make that disease fatal by means of their tendency to hasten the destructive inflammatory processes (' Klin. Vortriige fiber d. Lungen- schwindsucht,' Berlin, 1867). Fibroid Phthisis. Dr. Andrew Clark is the chief exponent in this country of the view that there is a disease commonly confounded with tubercular consump- tion, which nevertheless differs in many essential particulars, and especially in the fact that the deposited material is mainly of a fibroid character. In a report which he read at the Clinical Society of London he thus summarises the more important circumstauces which lead to the diagnosis of fibroid phthisis. (1) fibroid phthisis may have a constitutional or a local origin. (2) When the disease has a constitutional origin, the fact will be indicated by the presence of signs of fibroid disease in other organs and tissues by white skin spots, by corneal degenerations, by urine con- taining granular matter, granular casts, or albumen; by evidences of cirrhotic or amyloid liver, of enlargement and hardening of spleen, and induration of the nervous centres. (3) The constitutional state of which these growths, deposits, or degenerations, are the manifestations, seems to be closely connected with, if not dependent upon, the abuse of alcohol, syphilis, rheumatism, gout, exhausting discharges, and defective excretion.