ABSCESS OF THE BltAIN. 85 are the same—animal food, change of air, warmth to the surface, and moderate exercise; to which may be added cod-liver oil and cinchona. The sad prognosis of tubercular meningitis does not attach itself to acute tuberculosis. No doubt many persons recover from acute tuber- culosis ; knowing this, any patient suffering from what is possibly acute tubercle should be treated very carefully, so as, if possible, to stop the disease and prevent the brain being involved. Nor should the physician give way to the fatalism which follows upon being sure of the existence of hydrocephalus, until he is quite certain of his diagnosis. As much liquid food as possible should be given to the patient, by means of a syringe placed between his teeth, if need be. There is no doubt that leeches, active purging, blisteriug, ulcerating, and such like measures, hasten the advance of death. It is best not to shave the head unless there be a distinct indication. If the cornete begin to ulcerate it is as well to keep the eyelids closed by means of a little sticking-plaster." Dr. C. Mettenheimer, of Schwerin, reviews the subject of the employment of opium in acute tubercular meningitis, and we mention the case because the author's experience seems, though he is uncon- scious of it, really to confirm the melancholy estimate of the power of medicine in this disease which most recent writers have formed. Dr. Mettenheimer follows the directions of "West, who says that, although the question of the administration of opium in acute basilar meningitis is a difficult one, this remedy may probably be given with advantage after the heat of the head and the rapidity of pulse have been diminished by leeching and purgation. Following these indications, Dr. Mettenheimer gave to a child, one year old, who had been in constantly recurring con- vulsions for three days, i-24th of a grain of morphia, with the apparent result that the convulsions ceased. But seven days later they returned, and, although the morphia was repeated, death occurred three days afterwards. This seems to be precisely a case of those remissions which Dr. Gee (in the article above quoted) and Eilliet describe, and which are so deceptive in acute tubecular meningitis, by leading to a too sanguine prognosis (' Der praktische Arzt,' Marz, 1868). Abscess of the Brain. Drs. Gull and Sutton, in an elaborate paper on this disease ('Reynolds's System of Medicine,' vol. ii), based on a tabular statement of 76 cases, give the following analysis of the symptoms:—There was pain in the head in 39 cases; epilepsy from seizures in 38 ; coma in 30 ; heaviness, stupor, and drowsiness in 30; paralysis in 24; rigors in 17 ; pyrexia in 13 ; delirium in 18 ; vomiting in 12 ; incontinence of urine, or of faeces, or both, in 15; vertigo in 8; disordered sensibility, not including the pain in the head, in 6; defective articulation in 4 ; defective sight in 3 ; an apoplectic attack in 1. The most frequent symptoms, therefore, are pain in the head, epileptiform attacks, paralysis, coma, heaviness, drowsiness, stupor, rigors, pyrexia, delirium, vomiting, and incontinency of urine and feces. The authors dwell upon emaciation setting in rapidlyas amarked symptom in several of their cases—similar emaciation