TORSION AND ACUPRESSURE. 207 in the wound. After thinking, therefore, a good deal on the subject, aud reflecting over various modes in which the eud of the vessel could be temporarily sealed, I tried the plan of torsion, which has of late been used in Edinburgh and elsewhere, and have employed it now in a great many cases, including amputation in the thigh, in the leg, and many others. Indeed, for several months I have used no other means but torsion for arresting haemorrhage, and it has answered perfectly in all the cases. There has, I think, been less pain after the operations than was experienced when we used the ligature, and the wounds have, on the whole, done better and healed more quickly." The plan which Dr. Humphry adopts is to seize the vessel with a pair of strong narrow-bladed hinge-forceps, used in operations for necrosis, and twist the end off; and he makes the following practical observations on some of the details of the method:—" Torsion has certainly in my hands proved somewhat more difficult than the ligature, requiring more care, more patience, and more perseverance. It is ne- cessary to include the vessel itself in the forceps ; for it is useless to twist the surrounding tissues ; and it is not always easy, when blood is flowing, to make sure of the exact point from which it flows. Often, therefore, when I have been twisting, I found that my efforts were of no avail, because I had not seized the exact orifice of the vessel. Even when the vessel is seized, the inner coat is liable to slip from between the blades of the forceps, the outer coat only being retained and sub- jected to the torsion ; and this is not to be relied on. "When, however, I have been sure of having seized an artery and properly twisted it, I have not known any further bleeding to take place from it; and if it be carefully done, torsion is, I think, a valuable means of securing small and medium-sized arteries, such as the tibials/facials, &c, and, by reducing the number of ligature-threads, it will be found to promote early healing of wounds. "Whether it will prove to deserve our con- fidence in the case of the larger arteries, I am not so sure; but I should say that the doubt is founded rather upon what I have found in experimenting upon the dead subject than on what I have observed in the living; and it may be that better appliances and more experience may justify a greater reliance upon its efficiency." In the 51st vol. of the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' p. 199, Mr. Bryant dis- cusses the subject of torsion. He first discusses the history of the proposal, omitting, however, any reference to the works of Porta, by whom (as noticed by Mr. G-amgee, in a letter to one of the journals) tor- sion was both proposed and practised even in amputation of the thigh ; then compares it with acupressure, noticing the insecurity which must always attend on the latter method, inasmuch as it does not effect any change in the coats of the vessel, but depends for its haemostatic effect solely on the clot formed inside the artery. He then separates torsion into two kinds—-free, where the end of the artery is merely seized by a pair of clasp forceps and twisted freely; and limited, where it is also seized transversely about f ths of an inch from its divided end, so that only so much of the vessel is twisted. Numerous experiments on animals are then related and illustrated by coloured drawings ; and one drawing is given of the brachial artery in the humau subject 35