437 DJAIUUIUlA. clysters, local bleedings, and warm applications, are most to bo trusted. Dr. Midler discusses minutely (' Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1868) the varie- ties of diarrhoea in children. I'irst in the class of acute diarrhoea is the saburral diarrhoea of sucklings, the result generally of error of diet. He adds nothing but conjecture in explanation of the singular change of colour of the dejections from yellow to green after being exposed to the air. As to the choice of food, the selection of a nurse, he remarks that the microscope fails to distinguish milk that may be rendered poison- ous by mental emotions. As a practical rule, he thinks it important to select milk the fat-globules of which are as uniform as possible in size, avoidiug milk containing very large globules intermixed with others of various sizes. After much experience he concludes that pure cow's milk sweetened with milk-sugar, used directly after milking, is the best substitute for human milk. He insists that the cows should be fed on hay only. The milk should not be watered or boiled. To preserve it from decomposition, it is necessary to prevent its exposure to air, not only to avoid oxygen, but also the sporules of fungi. It should be tested by litmus-paper, and, if found ever so slightly acid, rejected. He calls attention to a hrochure by Folger,—the artificial nourishment of infants with milk free from fungi (Miinster, 1867)—who describes an apparatus which secures the milk from access of air, not only during its flow from the cow's udder, but also during the sucking of it from the bottle by the child. As to medicinal treatment, Miiller speaks well of calomel in small doses for the first day or two. He then describes successively— 2. The saburral diarrhoea of older children. 3. The catarrhal acute diarrhoea, including the summer,, epidemic, the diarrhoea of dentition, and the sporadic infantile cholera. On the subject of the last Miiller discusses the various opinions held concerning its pathology. The gelatinous softening of the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal occasionally found he does not regard as essential; he admits that it may be the result of post-mortem digestion, and says that, from a clini- cal point of view, a pathological softening of the Btomach can only be inferred when, after an extremely short illness, and after the most decided and violent stomach symptoms, death has followed. But such cases are extremely rare, and, in most cases where softening has been found after death no symptoms' had led us to suspect such a condition during life. In treatment Miiller has found nitrate of silver, one eighth grain to one twenty-fourth grain, with sugar and gum, given four times daily, the most effectual remedy. As soon as symptoms of collapse begin, marked by paleness and a falling temperature, Miiller has seen, in many cases, veratrum followed by recovery. The chronic diarrhoeas.—The common seat affected is the large intes- tine. They must be regarded as chronic catarrh, especially of the mucous membrane of the large intestine. Miiller carefully discusses the treatment. In the form known as lienteria, in which there is such a condition of the intestinal canal that the food, quickly after ingestion, is expelled only superficially digested, Miiller says nux vomica may be regarded as a specific, whilst opium is quite useless. Iu the common forms he recognises the value of nitrate of silver. He submits three