150 REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. a restorative or as a depressor of the general force. Prof. Bchier confirms this general observation, and applies the observation of tension changes to the investigation of the effect of the acetate of methylamine, a substance generated in coffee during roasting, from the decomposition of caffeine. The research on this particular drug was executed by M. Personne, Pharmacien to the Hop. de la Pitie, under M. Behier's superintendence. The result is to show a striking effect of the drug in raising arterial tension) 'Practitioner,' Oct. 1868). It seems reasonable to expect important results from the sphyginographic study of the action of remedies for acute diseases upon the vascular system. Some efforts have been made in this direction by Mr. Brunton (' Essay on Digitalis,' Churchill, 1868), with regard to the action of digitalis. The latest novelty of any importance in sphygmography is the research, of Dr. Eulenburg, of Berlin, upon the pulse-form in diseases of the nervous centres. Eulenburg examined the radial, the tibial, and the carotid; also the ulnar, femoral, and the temporal, but these gave no useful tracings. (1) The radial, in tabes dorsalis of advanced grade, with extensive lesions of sensibility, gave constantly a dicrotous trace of pronounced type, indicating, in this case, diminished arterial tension, in other circumstances a simultaneous increase of the force of the heart. The diminished arterial tension is due to the involvement of certain sensory fibres in the posterior columns of the cord which are capable of exerting a reflex influence on the calibre of the arterioles. When the patient improves and the affection of these fibres vanishes, the dicrotous character of the pulse vanishes also. Eulenburg thinks the dicrotic character of the pulse is really diagnostic, and mentions a case where this test was usefully employed to distinguish between tabes dorsalis and disease of the anterior columns. (2) In recent cases of apoplectic hemiplegia in old people, Eulenburg examined the artery of the sound side; the pulse-form here was such that the first secondary wave reached or rose above the level of the primary apex. This pulse-form depends on diminished blood-pressure and diminished rapidity of the blood-current; it is developed out of the ordinary senile form in virtue of the lowered force of the heart. In older-standing cases of paralysis, when the heart's energy has recovered itself, the normal pulse-form reappears. Younger apoplectic subjects exhibit the ordinary pulse- form of their time of life. On the other hand, the pulse-curve of the paralysed side approaches the simplest monocrotous type. This results from the fact that besides the diminished heart-force a local momentum operates, viz. the paresis of the vaso-motor nerves, and laxity and dilatation of the arterial walls. Certain other cases of chronic brain disease are also analogous to these in reference to the difference of the two pulses. The pulse-curve in puerperal paralysis and atrophies presents a similar form to that observed in hemiplegia. The pulse of the tibial artery is normally dicrotous with feeble deve- lopment of the first secondary wave. This depends on the low blood- pressure in arteries which are distant from the heart. In tabes, therefore, the dicrotic appearance of the tibial pulse-curve is much more marked than that of the radial curve.