168 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. cicuta maculata, and coniellinum canadense (il)id., June 27, 1868). Copeman obstruc- tions of the bowels, withcancer (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. s, 1868). Beveridge, patho- logy of ileus. The author aims at showing the mechanical and not necessarily inflam- matory nature of the complaint—(ibid., Dec. 5, 1868). Boyes, spasmodic closure of oesophagus (ibid., Dec. 26, 1868). Wynne Foot, pica (' Dublin Quarterly,' May, 1867). P. DISEASES OP THE SECRETORY SYSTEM. Kidney Diseases. Dr. R. T. Edes, of America, writes on the prognostic significance of casts and albumen in the urine. There are two classes of cases in which the occurrence of casts, though always requiring attention, is much less formidable than in other forms of disease. 1. In acute renal dropsy they are not a very dangerous symptom. The process in the kidneys is analogous to the desquamation of the skin, although, from the form of the tubes, it is a more difficult and complicated process. 2. During pregnancy, and for some time after delivery, casts and albu- men may occur without the slightest bad symptoms. As against the view that granular degeneration of the kidneys, when present in a patient attacked with erysipelas, renders the case almost hopeless of recovery, the author adduces the history of a severe erysi- pelas going on to gangrene, and causing premature labour, in which both albumen and casts were present; nevertheless the woman recovered without a single bad symptom. Dr. Bradbury sends to the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' April 18, 1868,some account of a case of Bright's disease following on ague. It has been said that in the dropsies following ague there is never evidence of kidney disease. The patient, a labourer, 03t. 36, was admitted into Adden- brooke's Hospital, Cambridge, under Dr. Paget. He had suffered badly from ague some time before, and had already been treated for dropsy. When admitted he was pallid and puffy, and his legs, scrotum, and abdomen, were dropsical. His urine had sp. gr. 1017; it became almost solid with heat and acid, and contained hyaline, granular, and fatty casts. There was no cardiac or pulmonary disease. His legs had to be punctured. He did not do much good with elaterium, but improved under digitalis, cream of tartar, and juniper. He finally recovered. Dr. Basham narrates ('Lancet,' Aug. 24, 1867) a highly interesting case of acute dropsy without albuminuria. The patient, a man, set. 26, had got wet and cold ; a morning or two after, his face was puffy. When admitted he had all the appearances usually associated with acute albu- minuria. The face was puffy, the eyelids cedematous, as were the backs of the hands and the arms to the elbows ; the chest was slightly anasar- cous, the lower extremities more so. His respiration was humid and moist; rales were heard all over the chest. Nevertheless, on examining the urine, which was scanty and high coloured, sp. gr. 1022, not a trace of albumen could be found, either by nitric acid alone, by heat and nitric acid, or by absolute alcohol; nor could a trace be detected during his stay in hospital. This shows that general anasarca may occur without any further disturbance than is implied by a scanty and high- coloured urine containing no albumen.