REPORT ON MIDWIEEltY, ETC. •110 timea several lines thick exsudation extending from the gums to the pharynx, or only to a lesser portion of the fauces. One hundred and seventy-two cases recovered, forty-five died. Death occurred always from paralytic conditions, never from suffocation. As to treatment, it was observed that patients who could gargle did better than those in whom swabbing had to be trusted to. Children in whom not even swabbing could be used mostly perished; thus the greatest mortality was under five years. The most useful local treatment was chlorate of potash in a warm solution, with gum, as a gargle or applied by a brush. When gargling could not be practised, swabbing with nitrate of silver was most useful. Gran tried bromine in some severe cases, and thinks well of it; it destroys the foul odour. As internal medicine, Gran found a mixture of nitrate and carbonate of soda beneficial. In some cases, when there was constipation, he used sulphate of magnesia with advantage. The diet was sustaining. Ventilation was carefully attended to. Oran found warm air better than cold. He condemns blood- letting. Dr. Michel Peter (ib., 1867) continues an elaborate clinical memoir on secondary diphtheria. Dr. J. Ullersperger (ib., 1868) discusses the question as to the treat- ment of diphtheria by sulphur. It is mainly an abstract of the memoirs of Dr. Barbosa (' Gazeta Med. de Lisboa,' 1868), who had to deal with an epidemic aftecting 2000 patients. The preparation used was the Hour of sulphur, the method by local insufflation. It possesses a pro- perty of controlling plasticity. The success obtained by Barbosa calls for further inquiry. The action of the sulphur probably depends upon its power of destroying the disease-producing agent, the cryptogamic plants. J. B. Rollo (loc. cit.) relates three cases treated successfully by the sulphur-insufflation. Henoch (' Beitrage') has given up relying upon chlorate of potash and cautery with potassa fusa. He recommends injections of lime- water, and quinine in hydrochloric acid. Dr. Ullersperger relates experience in test of Trideau's method of treating diphtheria ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1867). Trideau, a Spanish physician, had to encounter a murderous epidemic in Mayence, which killed about 200 persons. Other means failing, he came to the convic- tion that copaiva and cubebs were the most effectual remedies. He gave to adults half a spoonful of syrup of copaiva every two hours, then a gramme of cubebs alternately. The copaiva syr.up is made of copaiva 80 grammes, gum-arabic 20, distilled water 50, essence of peppermint 16 drops, and common syrup 400 grammes. The cubeb syrup is made of cubebs 12 grammes, common syrup 240 grammes. Children take half the dose. If not tolerated, a drop or two of laudanum is added. Good nourishment is enjoined. Coffee is praised. More than 300 patients were subjected to this treatment, and "recovery always fol- lowed" when the treatment was begun during the first or second stage of the disease (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867).