315 LITHOTOMY. M. Bouisson usually employs is the median. He now contributes notes of four eases in which " the natural approximation of the edges of the wound made in the perinseum opposed an obstacle to the exit of the urine, and was actually followed by very rapid adhesion of the opposed surfaces." The first case was that of an adult with oxalate of lime calculus (the size not specified^), and stricture of the urethra. Median lithotomy was performed with an incision of about an inch. Next day only a little urine escaped by the wound; for the following two days the urine passed almost entirely by the penis. On the fourth day no water passed bv the wound, which was almost cicatrized, and without suppuration. On the sixth day a few drops of urine escaped from a minute opening at the top of the wound. On the eighth day cicatrization was complete. Iso pus had been formed. The second case was that of an. elderly man, set. 64, with partial paralysis of the bladder. Six calculi were extracted by the median operation. One of them broke under the forceps, and it was necessary to introduce the finger repeatedly and to wash out the bladder. Next day no urine had been passed either by the wound or penis, and the patient suffered from pain in the hypogastrium. A catheter was passed through the wound, and more than a quart of urine evacuated. Then the retention recurred. Accordingly on the following day a catheter was passed by the urethra and tied in. The wound healed by first in- tention, and was completely closed on the sixth day. The paralysis of the bladder remained permanent. The third case was that of a lad, set. 16, who had had stone for about eight years. Median lithotomy was performed with a small incision. Next day the urine escaped through the wound, but on the following day it passed entirely by the penis, and on the sixth day the wound was as completely closed as that of harelip. The fourth case was that of a child, set. 6, who was operated on by the " medio-lateral operation." The calculus was small, and the ope- ration rapid. There was considerable hemorrhage, which was stopped by twisting the vessel, after a vain attempt to tie it. Bleeding recurred a few hours after the operation, and was stopped by pressure and ice. The urine ran away by the wound during the night. On the following day it passed by the wound, but only when the bladder acted. In the evening a portion passed by the penis. On the third day almost the whole, and on the fourth the whole, of the wrater passed naturally. The wound was completely healed on the eighth day. These four cases prove, in M. Bouisson's opinion, that the whole of the wound of lithotomy may be cicatrized by first intention without any formation of pus, the deep parts as well as the superficial, so that no infiltration of urine takes place. M. Bouisson then passes in review the various methods of lithotomy in respect of their proneness to immediate union. He considers the hypogastric operation the most unfavorable for immediate union, and the recto-vesical operation as the most exposed to the formation of perineal fistula. The operation of vaginal lithotomy permits of the immediate union of the wound by suture, otherwise it would also usually