REPORT ON SURGERY. 22G morbus coxarius, at the age of n, is related by Mr. Barnes, of Liver- pool, in the 'Lancet,' i, 1868, p. 190. For all matters connected with excisions of joints see below, with the. diseases of the organs of locomotion. The following extracts refer to matters connected with Burgical pa- thology : On traumatic fever.—In ' Langenbeck's Archiv,' ix, 1867, p. 52, Dr. Th. Billroth completes his work on traumatic fever. He commences with a reference to the two previous portions, of which a notice has been given in the 'Tear Book' for 1862, p. 183, and in the ' Biennial Retrospect' for 1865-6, p. 230. He also recites the conclusions arrived at by Prof. O. Weber, of which an account will be found in the ' Year Book' for 1864, p. 227. The present work (of which our space will only allow us to give the briefest possible account) consists mainly of three chapters, the first (18th of the whole work) referring to simple traumatic fever, in which the author shows the importance, with refer- ence to the theory of fever, of those cases of severe injuries in which the fever is absent. He then proceeds to prove that in about 87 per cent, of the cases in which fever does occur it comes on during the first forty-eight hours, that it terminates usually on one of the first seven days after its origin, and not more often on one of these days than on another, frequently, however, lasting longer than the seventh day, and passing directly into secondary fever, this being occasioned by some accidental inflammation or suppuration ; that the highest tempe- rature occurs commonly oh the first or second day, hardly ever later than the fifth, and that this fever has no definite type. The next chapter (xix) refers to the "infection-fevers," which are usually fatal, and which he divides into—1. " Septicaemia," or the fever of putrid in- fection. 2. Suppurative fever, or the fever of purulent infection ; and 3. Fever of purulent infection, with thrombosis and embolism, or pyamiia. —The first form of fever is marked by the following characters: The temperature is usually very high at first, and later on sinks very low ; but there are cases in which the temperature is low from the first, and never rises very high—nay, even may never have been above the normal— while the dry tongue, the oppressed sensorium, &c, show the gravity of the infection. In experimentally produced septicaunia the tempera- ture rises rapidly for two to six hours, then gradually sinks often below the normal, with simultaneous diarrhoea. Death may occur at any point of this change of temperature. He explains conjecturally the variety in the phenomena of this fever by the various doses of the putrid material which the individual may have absorbed, referring to Weber's experiments on the effects of injecting sulphuretted hydrogen and butyric acid. Septicaemia rarely, perhaps never, occurs later than the fourth day after the inj ury. 2. With regard to the fever of purulent infec- tion, its most striking characteristic is the recurrence of rigors with intermissions. Experiments on animals do not serve to elucidate this type of fever, as they give very various results. Man appears more prone to irritation from purulent infection of the blood than animals. The latter cannot be provoked to recurrent rigors by any single injec-