283 W0UND9 OF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. function of the nerve, apart from its debilitating influence on the throat." Removal of foreign bodies from the ear.—In the 'Med. Times,' i, 1S6S, p. 261, the following method is recommended for this purpose, on the authority of Mr. Hutchinson's practice, as eminently successful, and little likely to do any harm. Let the surgeon take six inches of fine wire and double it into a loop ; then, having the patient placed on bis side, pass the loop into the ear as far as it will go, and turn it a little gently. At the first or second withdrawal the foreign body will come out in the loop. The following extracts refer to affections of the organs of circula- tion :— Bullet-icounds of the heart.—In presenting to the New York Patho- logical Society a heart in which a rifle-ball had been imbedded during twenty years in the wall, Dr. Hamilton stated that Dr. S. S. Purple, in a paper on wounds of the heart, published in the May number of 1855 of the ' jSTew York Medical Monthly,' reported twelve examples of gun- shot wounds of this organ, in which the patient lived fourteen days with a ball in the pericardium. Dr. Hopkins, of Ohio, has reported a case in which the patient survived fifteen days with a pistol-ball encysted in the wall of the left ventricle. Carnochan's patient, the notorious Poole, lived eleven days with a pistol-ball encysted in the walls of the heart. In the case reported by Dr. Randall, of Ohio, the patient died on the sixty-seventh day, and three shots were found in the right ventricle and in the right auricle, the wounds having cicatrized. In the 'Indian Annals of Medical Sciences' a man is said to have survived ten weeks with a musket-ball in the cavity of the left ventricle. Pournie records the history of a man who, wounded by a ball, fell as if he were dead. Three months afterwards he suffered from severe palpitations, which nearly disappeared after three years. He died six years after the receipt of the injury from some malady unconnected with his injury; and the ball was found lodged in the right ventricle, near the tip, and resting on the septum medium. (' Brit. Med. Journal,' March 23, 2867.) Wounds of the internal jugular vein.—Dr. S. ~W. Gross arrives at the following conclusions from the study of eighty-five recorded cases :—1. Incised and punctured wounds of the internal jugular vein are to be classed among the most fatal of accidents ; and, if subjected to no treat- ment, are invariably mortal from primary haemorrhage, the introduction of air, pyaemia, or secondary haemorrhage. 2. Gunshot wounds of the vein alone are always fatal from primary or secondary haemorrhage, or pyasmia. 3. When the carotid artery is opened at the same time, either as a result of gunshot, incised, or punctured wound, the case may, under favorable circumstances, recover, but with the formation of an arterio-venous aneurism. 4. Compression is followed by a fatal result aa often as ligation, is more painful and inconvenient, and is to be resorted to in those cases only in which a thread is inappli- cable from the high situation of the wound, or when tho vein is