REPORT ON SURGERY. 282 appears to me to be less clearly marked. Acquired syphilis is a direct cause of deafness in a certain, not very large, number of cases; and hereditary syphilis, as pointed out by Mr. Hutchinson, sets its stamp unmistakably on a number much more considerable. Persons prone to eczema and psoriasis are especially liable to certain chronic inflamma- tions of the meatus, and those in whom there is a tendency to engorge- ment of the mucous membrane of the throat, of course suffer most from obstruction of the Eustachian tube. "But besides these groups of cases I have been able to trace scarcely any instances of a clear connection of disease of the ear with other general or local diseases. Deafness often runs in families; and a gene- ral exhaustion and irritability of the nervous system is sometimes seen to accompany a special inability to hear without discoverable lesion of the conducting apparatus. But this is by no means always the case. I should say that the rule is the contrary, and that what we must still be content to call ' nervous deafness' does not generally coincide with other symptoms of nervous derangement. At the same time, there appears to be a certain constitution of body with which a nerve-deaf- ness is often associated; so much so, that on the first aspect of the person his or her symptoms may be pretty accurately predicted. These patients may be of either sex, but are more frequently females; they are characterised chiefly by a peculiar smoothness of the skin, giving to the features, when it is extreme, something of a drawn aspect. There is, however, no emaciation ; they appear to be in perfect health, often robust, and by no means complain of weakness. They seem mostly of the sanguine or nervo-sanguine temperament, and the countenance is more or less florid. They give no history of mental shock or physical exhaustion, and the other senses, as a rule, are not impaired. In one such patient, however, now under my care, a girl of 16, the sight is weak, and ophthalmoscopic examination (for which I have to thank my friend Mr. Bader) reveals an extreme hyperemia of the optic nerve and retina. In this case the symptoms are those of increased pres- sure within the labyrinth—a glaucoma of the ear. The coexistence of aural and ocular disease in this case is interesting, but I have met hitherto with few parallel instances. One case of confirmed glaucoma, accompanied by total deafness, I had the opportunity of examining after death, and found softened patches in the brain and degeneration of the membranous labyrinth, together with extensive disease of each meatus, the bone being largely absorbed by the pressure of accumulated masses of epidermis. Unfortunately, as yet, our means for measuring excess or deficiency of the labyrinthine fluids after death are scarcely reliable, though I think I have met with both. " Apart from syphilis I have not found ocular and aural disease to be general concomitants, though the frequent existence of myopia in patients suffering from deafness not referable to derangements of the conducting media of the ear—a fact for which I am also indebted to the kind offices of Mr. Bader—suggests, perhaps, a glimmering of light, and affords a clue for future research. I have never been able to con- nect loss of hearing with albuminuria. But I have seen cases which support the idea of an injurious influence of tobacco—I mean on the