THE CONTAGION OF PULMONARY PHTHISIS. 129 or once every two days, for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes (' Practitioner,' November, 1868). Dr. D. Brakeuridge writes ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' June 13th, 1868) on the influence of digestive habit in tuberculosis. He points out that tuberculous subjects habitually reject fat, and that this, as in the form of cod-liver oil, is about the best remedy we possess for the disease. He alludes to the fact that inhabitants of warm climates also habitually reject fat food, whilst it is greedily sought by dwellers in cold climates. He accordingly suggests that, instead of sending tuberculous subjects to warm climates, we should rather, at least in the earlier stages of the complaint, look for a cold, dry, breezy climate, where the habit of digesting fat would be strengthened. Dr. Payne Cotton writes an interesting account (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 24th, 1868) of certain cases of haemoptysis arising from aneurism of the pulmonary artery. The first occurred in a male, set. 20, the subject of rapid phthisis. Haemoptysis to a moderate extent appeared early in the disease, but was easily controlled until within three days of his death, when it suddenly occurred to the extent of half a pint, and continued more or less until death resulted by exhaustion. The right lung was pale and emphysematous ; the left small, dense, and. studded with tubercle. A large excavation existed in the upper, and a smaller in the lower, lobe of the latter. In the anterior and inferior portion of the latter was a clot concealing a small aneurism, the size of two peas, and consisting of two portions, one of which only was ruptured. The second case occurred in a male, set. 27, who was the subject of ordinary phthisis; he had had haemoptysis early in the disease, but it had not returned for twelve months, when he suddenly coughed up nearly two pints of blood.; this haemoptysis went on for five days, when he sank. Both lungs were tuberculous. In the upper lobe of the left lung were three vomicae, in the lowest of which was an aneurism the size of a walnut, the vessel being as big as a crow-quill. In the wall was a ragged opening, and the cavity was lined by fibrinous laminae. The third also occurred in a male, aet. 15; he had been ill nearly two years and had never spat blood until one day, when he brought up 20 oz. He continued to spit more or less blood after this till his death, ten weeks after. There were two cavities in tbe apex of the left lung, the smaller of which contained a flaccid bag, with thin and friable walls ; this was a dilatation of a large branch of the pulmonary artery—in fact, one of its primary branches. The aneurism contained no fibrinous deposit, and only a small coagulum. It was ruptured at its upper part. In these cases the artery, after losing the support of the lung substance, instead of running along the wall or ceasing abruptly, remained passive, and became distended into an aneurismal pouch. Dr. Cotton thinks that such conditions are far from unfrequent, in which he is confirmed by other authorities. Dr. C. J. B. Williams and his son, Dr. T.Williams, communicated to the 'Lancet,' Aug. 1868, a series of papers on pulmonary consumption as seen in private practice. Dr.Williams thinks the chances of a phthisical patient are much better now than formerly, chiefly, he holds, owing to the introduction and improvement of cod-liver oil. He holds that the treat- 9