EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 355 Upon the question of the use of chloroform, Steflan agrees with Jacobson that it may be given with perfect safety. But he does not think it at all essential to success, except in unsteady patients, or in dealing with diseased, restless, or hypersensitive eyes. Prof. Knapp* reports 100 cases of cataract operated upon after the method of von Graefe. He made his section larger or smaller, accord- ing to the size and hardness of the nucleus ; and his largest sections approached more nearly to the flap than von Graefe thinks necessary, but were kept entirely within the limit of the scleral margin. An incision too much removed from the cornea was found to expose the zonula to danger; one too near the cornea did not close perfectly, and was exposed to risk of primary suppuration, which occurred in one case. Since then, the section was made near the iris at its extremities, and with its centre distant from ^ to i millimetre from the cornea. The preservation of a conjunctival flap appeared to promote the cure. A slight disadvantage of the section in the sclerotic was the bleeding from its edges ; and the author turns the flap of conjunctiva over the cornea, in order to avoid the entrance of blood into the eye, and stops proceed- ings until bleeding has ceased. The iridectomy and the opening of the capsule were performed after von Graefe's methods, except that, as sometimes the cystitome depressed very hard lenses and ruptured the zonula, Knapp has attempted to open the capsule prior to the iridec- tomy. The advantages of this are that there is no transference of the fixation forceps to an assistant, that the iris guards the zonula, that haemorrhage from the cut iris occurring after the capsule is open does not retard the operation, and that the blood escapes with the lens. The disadvantages are the difficulty of gliding the cystitome between the iris and the lens without wounding the former or dragging the latter, that the capsular opening is neither so complete nor so peripheral, and that the exit of the lens is more difficult. The division of the capsule is very important; and, if insufficient, involves risk of escape of vi- treous and of retention of cortical substance, with consequent inflam- mation and secondary cataract. To extract the lens Knapp removes the wire speculum, and by a little patience accustoms the eye to the touch of the curette, which is large and with thin edges. It is applied over the posterior margin of the wound ; but if the zonula pro- jects, or the lens does not escape easily, the curette is made to enter the wound somewhat, and to cover the zonula. The lens then escapes, perhaps by the aid of a little pressure through the lower eyelids. It is necessary to avoid squeezing the iris. This method preserves the yitreous, and is to be preferred to the use of von Graefe's hook, which holds badly. The entrance of a scoop, as practised by Bowman and Critchett, is not to be recommended as an ordinary procedure, since the lens will escape without it in 75 cases out of 100. Sometimes the lens has been removed in its capsule, either involuntarily or by design. The pro^reHs in these cases has been normal, and there was no great lo?s of vitreous. The attempt is indicated when the zonula is torn or destroyed, and it is probable that in very hard cataracts this may be * 'Archiv fiir Ophthalmologies xiii, t.