REPORT ON SURGERY. .308 " Although vesicointestinal fistula is one of the rarer lesions, yet there is a goodly number of cases on record. But cases in which by it the possibility arose for intestinal worms to get into the bladder and be expelled per urethram, are exceedingly scarce. C. Davaine, in his 'Traite des Entozoaires et des Maladies Vermineuses,' Paris, i860, lias collected only 14 cases. " In 2 of these the worms reached the bladder by a vesico-rectal fistula. " In 3 cases the history is quite incomplete. " In 1 case it is mentioned that death was imminent. " In 1 case no post-mortem examination was made. " In 5 cases it is mentioned that the troubles diminished or ceased after the expulsion of worms. In 2 of these cases the relief seemed a lasting one. If we look at them by the light which our case furnishes, I think we may greatly doubt that the fistula had healed radically. " In only 2 cases the post-mortem result is reported. " The case of Dr. William Kingdon (' Med.-Chirurg. Review,' Julv, 1842) bears such a striking similarity to mine, that I think it interest- ing to re-state it here: "A boy, a?t. 7, at the commencement of the year 18.36 suffered from the retention of urine for more than eight days, after which an Ascaris lumbricoides presented itself at the meatus urinarius, and was pulled out by the child himself. One year afterwards the same thing occurred, and the mother extracted a worm from the urethra. Worms presented themselves successively at the opening of the urethra six months later, then in October, 1838, and in January and April, 1839. The passing of several worms per anum, violent pains in the region of the bladder, purulent urine, which afterwards passed with the stools, high and con- stant fever, transient loss of sight, and extreme exhaustion, were the leading symptoms, until death occurred, Nov. 15, 1839. " Post-mortem examination.—The vermiform process, instead of occu- pying its usual place, dipped down in the small pelvis, and about one inch from its extremity adhered closely to the upper and lateral portion of the bladder, a little above the junction of the ureter with the bladder. The bladder itself was small and contracted around a hard body that was recognised as a stone, one and a half inch long and two and three fourths inches in circumference. The walls of the bladder were very much thickened, and opposed themselves almost entirely to the passage of the urine in the direction of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the bladder was ulcerated on two spots, and in a direct line with the orifice of the ureter, and a little above it were two fistulous openings, separated by a very narrow spur, which communicated with the in- terior of the vermiform process. Both ureters were very much en- larged, and both kidneys, more voluminous than normal, were so completely filled with pus that hardly a trace of healthy tissue remained. " Dr. Kingdon divided the stone with care, and found in its centre a large pin. The stone had not been recognised during life. 11 Description of the stones in Dr. Krackowizer's case.—There were five smooth and four rough ones. Dr. L. Voss, who assisted at the operation,