264 REPORT ON SURGERY. the operation:—Of the 12 centimetres of bone removed, about 10 had been reproduced, the arm being shortened about 15 millimetres. It had not grown since the operation, while its fellow had grown considerably, bo that it was nearly two inches the longer. The shape of the shoulder showed that the reproduced head of the humerus had not the normal volume. A resisting body could, however, be felt rolling in the situa- tion of the head on passive motion. The elbow could be separated from the trunk about five inches. The arm was solid. Passive motion at the shoulder was limited by periarticular adhesions. She had good use of the member, and worked in a cigar manufactory. Subperiosteal resection of the elbow.—In the same work there are elaborate directions for the performance of this operation, and a list of 12 cases in which it has been performed at Lyons. With regard to the first point, it is sufficient to say that the parts are to be freely exposed by an incision at the posterior part of the joint, either on the outer or inner side of the olecranon process, so as not to wound the tendon of the triceps. This incision is to be carefully extended to the bones, and the periosteum and other tissues inserted into the bones are to be re- flected with great care from the olecranon, and from the condyles and back part of the humerus. This detachment is to be effected with a sharp rasp or chisel where the tendons are inserted, and these, of course, will be severed at the same time. Then a chain-saw is to be passed underneath the humerus by means of an instrument of a pecu- liar construction, which is really a curved rasp, grooved on its upper surface to receive the chain-saw, and having an eye, into whicli a string to carry the chain-saw is passed. The humerus, having been thus divided, is cleaned carefully on its anterior surface. The ulua aud radius can be divided with a common saw from behind, or with bone- nippers. The ulnar nerve, beiug raised with the periosteal structures, does not come into view, and is not endangered. M. Oilier also says that there is much less bleeding than in the ordinary operation. The subperiosteal method is, of course, more laborious and difficult. It aims at preserving not merely the periosteum, but also the capsule of the joint and the tendons down to their insertion ; and its alleged ad- vantage is, that the olecranon and the condyles of the humerus will probably be regenerated, atlbrding a much more favorable insertion for the triceps muscle, and a much more complete joint, with greater facility of movement. Out of M. Ollier's 12 cases, 3 died from pya?mia or erysipelas. In 2 cases the operation was recent. Out of the other 7, in 1 case the patient died of scarlet fever eight months after the operation, and, unfortunately, no examination of the parts was obtained. In another case, also, the terms in which the ultimate result is de- scribed are undecided. In all the remaining, reproduction of the articu- lation was inferred from the external examination, and the movements were good. In the ' British Medical Journal,' Oct. 31, 186S, is a paper read at the Oxford meeting of the British Medical Association in August by Dr. W Stokes, jun., of Dublin, on " Periosteal Preservation in Operative Surgery," in which he refers to 3 cases of excision of the elbow by this