REPORT ON 1'ltA.CTICAL MEDICINE. 176 liquid stools, and the tumour sensibly diminished, but the belly was painful and the pulse small. The tumour lessened, but Bhe grew weaker, and had hectic. She died on the 28th of February. The colon adhered to the kidney, and there was a communication between the two, or rather the cavity of the latter, for the organ itself had almost disappeared. It contained a thick cheesy material as well as pus. There was no calculus, aud the ureter was healthy. A case somewhat similar to the above was, last session, brought before the Clinical Society, by Dr. R. Southey, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' i, p. 58). The patient was a labourer, 83t. 32, and had for some time required to have a catheter passed to secure free passage for his urine. This would seem to have induced a catarrh of the bladder, for which, indeed, complicated with other cir- cumstances, he applied for relief. The bowels were confined, the urine scanty and highly purulent. There was much paiu in the left flank and groin, where a deep-seated, smooth-outlined tumour, hard and pain- ful, could be detected. From this the pain sometimes extended down iuto his thigh. The size of the tumour fluctuated with the quantity of pus in the patient's urine, as did also tho pain, but, on the whole, the patient's condition did not improve, but rather the contrary, until the abscess was opened, which was done by Mr. Holden, by means of a trocar. This would seem, however, to have been done rather late in the day, for pus appeared, and for some time continued to appear, in the stools. Gradually, however, the patient improved; his urine be- came healthy, as did his stools, but he suffered a good deal of inconve- nience, owing to dragging up of the bladder, due to the contraction of the abscess. Ultimately he went out quite well. Dr. Southey thinks this abscess was rather nephritic than peri- nephritic. Against the latter notion he goes chiefly because there was no injury to the parts. That such is not necessary is shown by Dr, Bowditch's cases, and the series of phenomena would seem to be better accouuted for by supposing the abscess to be outside the kidney, at least originally. We may conclude that in all such cases early opera- tion is indicated, that they are not nearly so dangerous as might be supposed, and that a small and permanent opening is best adapted for voiding the contents with safety. Dr. Henry Bowditch gives, in the ' Boston Medical and Surgical Journal' (July 9, 1868), some interesting details of three cases of peri- nephritic abscess, variously complicated, where incisions were made over the kidneys, and in which recovery took place. The patients were males, a;t. 27, 29, and 38 vears respectively. Their professions were physician, printer, and clerk. The disease began, in each instance, in the right renal and cxcaX region, and was preceded by debilitating influences, and in two instances unusual physical exertion. The prominent symptom was pain in the renal or cajcal region, sometimes extending down the legs, and sometimes causing inability to walk. As a rule there was 110 disturbance of the alimentary canal, beyond slight obstruction, and the urine appeared to be healthy. There was no jaundice, peritonitis, or head symptoms. A rounded, doughy, and scarcely elastic tumour could be felt in the renal region. From this situation pus made its way