155 ASPHYXIA FROM DEFECTIVE SWALLOWING. very rapidly fatal, but they are always dangerous and generally demand surgical interference. Cases of dysphagia from inflammation of the pharynx are very common. They often occur in children in consequence of inflam- mation of the upper part of the pharynx. Children who are old enough to express themselves say that they are not in a condition to swallow, and that everything that they take sticks in their throat. With vounger children dysphagia discloses itself first by an obstinate resist- ance "to taking either food or drink, so that there is a real danger of starvation; or, on the other hand, there are attacks of choking or violent cough, and symptoms of sufibcation when it is attempted to administer food or drink by force. A little girl, a>t. 8, suddenly attacked with pharyngitis, was with difficulty persuaded to swallow a small quantity of bread and milk. The morsel stuck in the throat, and was obliged to be fished out again, as the child could not swallow it. It was only after three or four days and the application of leeches and poultices to the throat that swallow- ing became possible. It may be remarked that the introduction of the stomach-pump, which was once attempted, produced violent convulsions. There are also two pathological circumstances which may cause dys- phagia, inflammation, and paralysis ; and a third cause may be mentioned which also produces dysphagia, the presence of an abscess behind the pharynx. All three conditions are dangerous in themselves and dangerous in their effects. Paralysis of the pharyngeal muscles may starve a patient to death, and it may be questioned whether the great difficulty of per- suading many insane persons to take food or drink does not arise from a sensation of paralysis in the gullet. At least we have remarked that in such persons a teaspoonful of food forcibly introduced into the mouth will remain in the throat, and either produce symptoms of sufibcation or come out again from the mouth or nose. A similar occurrence often happens in typhus and in many brain affections, and if the possibility of such an occurrence in children be neglected the forcible administra- tion of food, drink, or medicine, may produce sudden death. It is un- necessary to say anything as to tbe difficult diagnosis of pharyngeal abscess. It is enough to say that dysphagia may be suspected to arise from this cause. It is easy to recognise inflammatory dysphagia, for pharyngitis is generally accompanied with pain. For the inflammatory form the best treatment is the application of leeches, poultices, and milk. Retro-pharyngeal abscess must be diligently sought for and opened when found. Paralytic dysphagia is to be treated by the application of remedies especially adapted for paralysis. If the para- lysis is caused by a disease of the brain, local action on the nerves of the pharynx will do no good. It is necessary, as far as possible, to attack the disease in the nervous centres. If the paralysis depends on poor blood-making or occurs after diphtheria, a journey into the country is especially recommended. The author considers that friction of the neck, injections of atrophia, strichnia, &c, may be of use, but does not define to what extent or with what precautions. It is, above all, important that people should be compelled to eat and drink, and the stomach-pump must only be used in paralytic cases. In the latter