PHTHISIS. 128 However produced, cheesy deposits by no means always lead to softening and formation of cavities; the danger arises chiefly from pressure on the surrounding tissues and vessels; possibly also in some cases from extension of the proliferation from the superficial cells to the tissues themselves. In cases where the cell multiplication is more moderate and exercises less mechanical pressure the cheesy masses may by degrees become thickened, and the atrophied cells may fall into mere detrit us, the end of which process is calcification. In other cases complete fatty degeneration and softening may take place and be followed by entire absorption. "Where either the one or the other of these latter changes occur there is considerable formation of connective tissue in the lung. The calcified concretions are encysted and the space of the absorbed matter is filled with connective tissue, producing consolidation and impermeability to air. The contraction of the new tissue produces shrinking of the lung and retraction of the chest-wall, and consequent dilatation of the bronchi. This kind of formation of cavities is commonest in chronic phthisis. It will thus be understood that Niemeyer considers that consumption arising from chronic pneu- monia by no means a specially dangerous disease. Tie thinks that the greatest danger of most phthisical patients is that they may become tuberculous. He believes that the danger of intercurrence of tuber- culosis is precisely the same whether the cheesy products which are apt to provoke its occurrence were the results of a croupal or of a catarrhal pneumonia, and if of the latter whether that had been acute or chronic. Niemeyer next remarks on the fact that almost without exception, when tuberculosis attacks previously sound lungs, there are simultaneous productions of cheesy products in other organs, which may owe their existence to the most various diseases. Niemeyer mentions with approval the opinion of Buhl (who holds to the old view, that cheesy deposit and tubercle are identical), taking that view, he was justified in saying that every tissue and every exudation may, at a certain stage of retrogade metamorphosis, become tubercular matter. In short, Niemeyer thinks himself justified in saying that tuberculosis in the majority of cases is a secondary result, produced in a manner not as yet intelligible, of the influence of cheesy product on the organism. Buhl (whose merits are freely allowed by Niemeyer, though it is just now the fashion to accuse the latter of having stolen from him) had already insisted in the strongest way that miliary tubercle always de- pended on pre-existing cheesy deposit. He went further than this, and spoke of tubercle as a result of a poison analogous to that of pytemia taken up into the blood, but Niemeyer cannot approve of this view, and thinks it has done much to hinder progress. The theory of the constant dependence of tuberculosis on cheesy disease is one-sided and overstrained. Niemeyer expresses himself strongly on the disputed point of the inheritance of tuberculosis. He declares that, using the word in its correct term, no such fact has been satisfactorily proved. The only case in which we could speak of it with confidence is where the father or the mother had suffered from tuberculosis at the moment of concep- tion, and where the child born was directly affected with tubercle, and