DISLOCATION OF THE METACARPUS. 237 shoved in easily below the coraco-acromial arch. The patient having been made to sit np, there was no difficulty in depressing the arm to a posi- tion nearly at a right angle to the body, the head of the bone rising at the same time up to the axilla. I then placed my knee in the axilla, and pulled the limb towards me, when the dislocation was instantly reduced. "A consideration of the manner in which the accident occurred in this instance will both explain how the particular lesion was produced, and why that lesion is unlikely to happen frequently. Be it noted, that the displacement observed wras primary, taking place at once in the original injury, and of such a kind as could scarcely be produced after lodgment of the head of the humerus in the upper part of the axilla, without in- jurv to the thoracic walls or the shoulder-girdle. AVhile the patient Was walking on crutches his right crutch slipped, he lost his footing, and the whole weight of his body being thus thrown on the left crutch, the head of that crutch glided outwards from the axilla, and raised his elbow as he fell to the ground. This is the patient's story. The head of the crutch was the fulcrum on which the dislocation took place; and as it glided outwards it gave more and more leverage to the forces by which the head of the humerus was depressed, viz. the action of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major muscles in the commencement of the process, and the weight of the patient's body throughout; but in the ordinary dislocation forwards and downwards the elbow or hand comes into contact with the ground while the head of the humerus is at a higher level, with the weight of the body over it; and the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major muscles, which are important agents in pro- ducing the dislocation, likewise draw the arm and the trunk together, and pull the head of the humerus to the deep part of the armpit. Now, in the present instance, although these muscles doubtless aided in with- drawing the head of the humerus from the glenoid fossa, they were im- mediately thereafter with great rapidity opposed by the descending weight of the body, which, pressing the acromion against the displaced neck of the humerus, caused the head of the bone to pass between the insertions of the muscles in question, undoing the fold in the tendon of each, and reversing, or more probably destroying, the action of both." Dislocation of the metacarpus.—In the ' Lancet,' Aug. 22, 1868, p. 245, Mr. Raven, of Canterbury, relates a case of simple dislocation of the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones from the carpus, uncompli- cated by fracture or wound, in a man, aet. 77, who had been kicked by a horse on the left hand. The metacarpo-phalangeal joints on the dorsal aspect of the hand presented a concavity instead of a convexity, owing to the tilting up of the carpal ends of the displaced bones, which pro- jected on the back of the carpus, slightly stretching the integuments. On comparison with the opposite hand, the affected fiugers appeared shortened about a quarter of an inch. There was no swelling, so that the outline of the displaced bones could be clearly defined. The dis- location was reduced after some little trouble by extension, combined with a rotatory movement of the metacarpus. There was no sign of fracture. The man wa3 positive that he was kicked on the back of the