DEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 82 aphasic does not learn to speak with the right brain. How is it that he does not succeed in such a comparatively simple task, especially as it appears that he actually can sometimes express his thoughts in writing ? Maudsley thinks that the action of the two halves of the brain in speech should be compared to that of the two eyes in vision. Tou may destroy the sight of one eye by destroying the external orbit, and the other will remain perfect; but if you destroyed the optic ganglia upon one side you would probably abolish the sight of both eyes. The difficulty still remains as to the cause of the frequent association of aphasia with right hemiplegia. Is it not possible that the usual limita- tion of the power of writing to the left side of the brain may, after all, have something to do with it ? The motor centres of speech and the motor centres of writing are evidently in close functional connection. Now, if these different motor centres sympathise so intimately in healthy action, it is presumable that they will sympathise in disease. An injury of the motor nuclei of writing may, though not directly implicating the motor nuclei of speech, still abolish the functions of the latter by sympathetic or inhibitory action. "Whether this be so or not, it is possible to suppose some anatomical differences either in the brain structure or in the disposition of the blood-vessels, which might account for the frequent coincidence of aphasia with right hemiplegia, without the necessity of supposing a location of the faculty of speech in one side of the brain. There must be some such difference to account for right hemiplegia being more common than left hemiplegia (' Lancet,' i, 1868, pp. 690 and 721). Dr. Bateman, of Norwich, writes a series of papers (' Journal of Mental Science' for 1868) which are not yet concluded, in which he, in the first place, sums up most elaborately all that has been done upon this subject by English and foreign observers. He then proceeds to notice certain cases observed by himself. These present various forms of the affection—from the pure and uncomplicated abolition or sus- pension of speech without paralysis, or any other symptoms, to the partial or even occasional impediment of that faculty, a plan which is safer than that of taking merely typical cases. In his first case the sequence of morbid affections is curious. The first symptom was total loss of speech. After partial recovery of that faculty verbal amnesia was observed, loss of the memory of words limited to substantives, then epileptiform convulsions, and, alternating with each other, hemi- plegia and paraplegia. Eventually this change of symptoms merged into general paralysis. The loss of speech was at first of the atactic form, though there may have been also some verbal amnesia. Eor some days the total loss of speech was the only symptom. "When the amnesia was added it consisted in loss of memory of words, and we may ask whether the early simple ataxia of speech was a forgetfnlness of the movements necessary for speech. Bateman believes the early loss of speech was due to a momentary cerebral congestion in the same locality which afterwards gave rise to the more permanent symptoms. He believes that the disease was limited to the convolutional grey matter, as there was never any persistent paralysis referable to lesion of the