CHOLERA. 491 of Cholera on Shipboard."* The immunity of that great city from epidemic attacks of cholera passed for long with little notice, for the fact fitted in with no received theory. Yet its immunity was well known, and during the European outbreak of the disease in 1865 20,000 people took refuge in Lyons from Marseilles, besides many from Paris, all flying before the dreaded pestilence. During the first epi- demic of 1831-6 Lyons remained free from cholera, whilst, north and south, Paris and Marseilles suffered severely. But the immunity was still more strikingly exhibited in 1849. That was the year of the insurrection, and infected troops were repeatedly imported into the city and quartered upon the people. Still no epidemic spread to the civil population, and the few cases which did occur among the people were either imported, or were in those just discharged from the hos- pitals or among those in the hospitals. Yet all the conditions usually supposed to favour the spread of epidemic cholera were abundantly present in Lyons; there was the imported germ, want, filth, misery of all kinds, a debased population, and want of due sanitary measures. In 1854, 24 or 25 cases of cholera were met with in Lyons, and these were certainly not all cases of non-epidemic summer cholera, and they occurred among civilians. Whilst in previous epidemics the whole of Lyons had its civil population entirely free from an epidemic of the disease, in 1854 certain parts of the city were affected with an epidemic. In 1865 Lyons had no cholera. In 1866 a few cases occurred, but these were imported, and no epidemic occurred. Thus Lyons has, with a slight exception in 1854, always resisted the invasion of epidemics of cholera. Pettenkofer well asks, how is all this explicable ? The facts are utterly opposed to the views of those who say that, in order that cholera may spread, all that is required 13 the importation of infected matter in warm seasons, in the form of cholera stools, among a population living in damp dwellings with defective sanitary, and especially defective water-closet, accommodation. Equally untenable, he says, is the hypothesis of those who suppose that the drinking of a water containing a small quantity of infected organic matter by a people living in certain conditions, such as misery, immorality, cold, want, or in great fear, will almost certainly have the disease. These conditions were all abundantly present in Lyons, yet Lyons had no epidemic of cholera. The germs were again and again imported into the city; want and misery abounded ; the people were out of employ- ment ; overcrowding prevailed; the houses were damp, many being made simply of puddled clay; and many parts of the city were fre- quently flooded by the two rivers which ran through Lyons. The prevalent local theory that this immunity is owing to the current generated by the meeting of the streams of the Rhone and the Saone within the city is next shown to be untenable. Suffice it to say that Lyons ia less windy than many cities which suffered severely from cholera. Pettenkofer holds that four conditions are requisite in order that cholera may spread as an epidemic in any locality. These are—• a specific germ, a peculiar condition of soil, a certain degree of warmth » 'Zeitschr. f. Biologic,' iv, p. 400.