TOUSION AND ACUPRESSURE. 209 the lips of the wound, and after the patient was put to bed the pulsa- tion of the femoral artery communicated an impulse to the pin by which it was secured, so that i'or two clays the pulse could be counted by looking at the glass head of the pin. I have usually removed the needles in 4S hours, but in this case, while pulsation continued, I did not think it advisable to remove the pins till the third day, when the pulsation had ceased; and then, 72 hours after the operation, I re- moved the whole of the pins and loops without a single drop of blood following." In the next case the patient died thirty-six hours after amputation of the thigh ;—" On removing the needle and loop, and on laying open the vessels, it was found that the artery and vein were both free from any trace of inflammation, and that their coats were perfectly entire and uninjured where they had been embraced by the needle and loop. The obliterating coagulum in the artery was composed of 3 pieces, adherent to each other, and very slightly so to the interior of the artery." In case 14, an amputation of the arm high up in a child, set. 7, " 3 arteries were acupressed by needles and loops. One of the vessels was the axillary artery, and this was the first time it ever was acupressed in this hospital. The passing of the needle below and the loop above the axillary artery was greatly facilitated by taking hold of the mouth of the vessel with the artery forceps, and drawing it out very slightly, a proceeding Dr. Keith, Dr. Fiddes, and myself have since sometimes found useful for making it easy to acupress an artery in a confined corner of a wound. The needles and loops were all removed in fifteen hours. Those belonging to the axillary and another artery were brought away as usual without the slightest difficulty, but there was a little resistance in the drawing out of the third needle, owing, as was found on its removal, to the wire with which it was threaded having kinked. About 6 or 8 drops of blood followed the removal of the third needle, but the manner these drops came away satisfied me that they came from the track of the needle, whose bead, owing to the kinking of the wire, caused slight laceration while being withdrawn, and not from the artery which the needle was used in securing. I think this is the only in- stance I have ever seen in which a single drop of blood appeared on the removal of needles, pins, or loops used in acupressure." Case 21 is one of great surgical interest, a long and deep wound in the palm of the hand, dividing, no doubt, the superficial and perhaps also the deep palmar arch. It was parallel and a little internal to the metacarpal bone of the little finger, and extended deeply in front of the metacarpal bones for more than two inches across the hand, about as far as the interval between the fore and middle fingers. Pressure on the ulnar artery commanded the haemorrhage for a few seconds only; pressure on both arteries stopped it altogether. The bleeding was entirely stopped by passing acupressure pins under botli the radial and ulnar arteries a little above the wrist, and putting the hand in the extended position on a splint. The pins were removed 24 hours after their insertion, and the wound was healed by primary union at that time. 11.