AX ATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF TUB EYE. 84-8 t ' Archiv fur Ophthalmologic,' xiv, 1. * 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1867. and the restoration being each time less complete. The eye occa- sionally suffered from corneal turbidity, with desquamation of the epi- thelium, diminution of the anterior chamber, irregularity of the pupil, injection, and softening of the globe. There were also small subcon- junctival haemorrhages, with excessive photophobia, spasm of the or- bicularis, and entropion. If the blood were not absorbed, it produced desquamation of the conjunctival epithelium and the formation of cica- trices. The same phenomena occurred when the eye was closed by adhesive plaster and collodion. The second case occurred in a man, aet. 21 ; and in him, during anaesthesia succeeding cerebral disturbance attended by severe neuralgia, the left eye was without sensation, promi- nent, the pupil a little dilated, and the perception of light abolished. The right eye had its vision reduced to 3*5 (that is, could not distin- guish at a greater distance than one foot objects distinguishable at fifty feet by a normal eye), and its field of vision much diminished. The acuteness and the field of vision varied with the variations of the case, the former ranging from } to T^7, the latter from ten to four inches of radius. The third patient was a woman of 48. On the 6th of May, 1865, she was attacked, after a fright, by acute pain in the whole of the left trifacial, while partial anaesthesia of the cheek constantly extended its area. There were very frequent paroxysms of neuralgia. In April, 1866, paralysis of the sixth nerve and of the portio mollis, followed by partial recovery. Since the middle of June purulent discharge from the left eye,occasional haemorrhage, turbidity of the cornea, and loss of vision. On the 28th of July almost complete anaesthesia of the left side, taste and smell lost, hearing diminished. The left conjunctiva injected, with slight loss of substance in the inferior third of the cornea, from whence infiltration spread over a fourth of the cornea; the aqueous turbid, a slight hypopyon, the iris immovable, the power of winking partly lost, and the purulent secretion profuse. Notwithstanding the use of atropine and a compressive bandage, perforation of the cornea occurred, followed by an adherent leucoma. The author observes that this case in many respects resembles the results observed by Magendie after section of the trifacial. The loss of corneal substance occurred in the lower third, opposite the palpebral opening, and thus supported the opinion of von Grraefe with regard to the hurtful action of desiccation by the atmosphere. Dr. Steffan* has operated for paralysis of the oculo-motor nerve, the result of a blow on the head, by bringing for- ward the internal rectus, and the operation was followed by complete sloughing of the cornea. He inquires how far this disastrous resulb may have been due to the effect of the nerve injury in producing im- paired nutrition. The intimate functional relations between all parts of the fifth nerve and the eyeball are also illustrated by Dr. Hermann Schmidt.t who records cases intended to show that severe toothache diminishes, at least while it continues, the power of accommodation. The author attributes this influence, not to paresis of the muscle of accommodation, but to a reflex irritation of the vaso-motor nerves of the