286 REPORT ON SURGERY. healthily and cicatrized firmly. The suppuration was profuse and long- continued. " In case 33 (Drury B. Early, of present paper), the result was most satisfactory and complete ; the swelling had disappeared in three days —the appearance of the wound wonderfully improved—the discharge became healthy, and the subsequent progress of the case rapid and favorable, ending in entire recovery. "In case 32 (S. A. Willingham, of present paper), it was discovered, after the complete subsidence of the swelling, that the fibula was broken. Still the case progressed well. The inflammation was entirely subdued. On the tenth day after the ligation recurrent haemorrhage supervened, causing great infiltration below the knee in the popliteal space, and rupture of the nearly cicatrized gunshot wounds. This patient was greatly exhausted, and was not thought to be able to bear the ligation of the peroneal artery. Amputation above the knee was determined on. Only one artery, superficial and of small size, required tying in the stump. It is worthy of remark that the stump healed by the first intention—a most unusual result of a secondary amputation. It is not unfair to presume that the previous ligation favoured this rapid recovery of the stump. " In the three cases of arterial lesion in the superior extremity, in which ligation of the main trunk in its continuity was preferred, in order to subdue inflammation, the arteries wounded, respectively, were the brachial near the elbow in one, and the radial in both the others. The inflammation was greatly modified, though not in so marked a manner— except in one of them—as in those of the lower extremities. The patients all recovered ; and in two of them recurrent haemorrhage took place, but was controlled without resorting to further ligation. In the exception mentioned no recurrent haemorrhage occurred, and the inflam- mation seemed to be completely strangulated throughout the hand and forearm by the ligation of the brachial artery. " It will be observed that in the above six cases, in which the rule of Mr. Guthrie was departed from, recurrent haemorrhage took place in three of them, but only in one in such degree as to require an opera- tion. The advantages gained in departing from the established rule would be more apparent from a detad of the cases than in the above very condensed notes. The cases are referred to more in illustration of the circumstances in which departure from the rule maybe considered justifiable, than with any view of advocating the Huntenan practice in opposition to the more reliable one of Mr. Guthrie. "And lastly, though there are, doubtless, many other considerations which may justify the ligation of an artery in its continuity in the treatment of haemorrhage, we will refer to but one more. For in- stance, suppose a patient in a state of extreme exhaustion, whether from haemorrhage or other causes :—Consecutive haemorrhage in some inac- cessible artery, for instance, as the peroneal or posterior tibial high up, occurring in a patient of this kind, especially if complicated with great tumefaction and consequent change in the histology of the parts, would present a case, even for the most practised operator, of unavoidable delay. A prolonged and trying—we had almost said blind—search