1 REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF PHYSIOLOGY AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES* DURING THE TEARS 1867 AND 1868. BY HENRY POWER, E.R.C.S., M.B. Lond., OPHTHALMIC SUBGEON TO ST. GEOKGE'S HOSPITAL ; EXAMINEE IN PHYSIOLOGY IN THE UNIYEESITY OE LONDON. The most important of the means by which the progress of physiologi- cal anatomy can be forwarded is improvement in the construction of microscopes, and the greatest advance that has been made in this direc- tion of late years, with the exception of the construction by Messrs. Smith and Beck of an object-glass of only i-^oth of an inch focus, has undoubtedly been the immersion lenses of M. Hartnack, which are named from their being adapted to effect accurate definition when the glass is in direct contact with the fluid of the preparation, thus abolishing the ne- cessity for a covering glass. Histologists will find them of great value, and their expense is moderate. The employment of glycerine, and of weak solutions of bichromate of potash and chromic acid, for the purpose of harden- ing the soft textures of the body, and permitting fine sections to be made, and the practice of staining them with an ammoniacal solution of carmine, by which different structures may be discriminated from each other, so strongly advocated by Dr. Beale, have been found of such use that various other fluids have been adopted with the same objects in view. M. Ranvier, for instance,f has recently suggested the use of picric or carbazotic acid. As the acid is but sparingly soluble in water, saturated solutions may be employed, and immersion for 24 hours will permit very fine sections of the soft tissues to be made. It is stated to be peculiarly applicable to those structures which ordinarily present considerable difficulty from their con- taining much blood, as the lungs and liver. It possesses the advantage * In the compilation of the following Report, I have made free use of my own trans- lations of foreign works contained in the " Half-yearly Chronicle of Physiology" in the ' Medico-Chirurgical Review;' and I must also acknowledge my great obligations to the admirably clear and condensed summaries of many other essays and pamphlets, by Dn. Rutherford, Gamgee, Fraser, and Moore, and by Mr. Turner in Humphry and Turner's ' Journal of Anatomy.' t Brown-Seqnard's 'Archives de Phvsiologie,' t. i, p. 319.