147 APPLICATION OP THE GRAPHIC PROCESS. the complicated nature of the media through which the pulsations of the heart are conveyed to the writing lever. Those objections are, we think, just; but at any rate it seems to be the general opinion of those who have had any large experience of the graphic method, that (for purposes of medical examination, at least) the cardiagraph is not suffi- ciently reliable to be of practical value. On the other hand, the sphygmograph of Marey has not only main- tained its value in the opinion of all except those who expected im- possible diagnostic miracles from it, but has received certain modifica- tions which indefinitely increase its utility, by rendering its indications more precise. Iu the last ' Betrospect' we mentioned the great benefit which had accrued from the employment of Mr. Berkeley Hill's pad, or cushion, by means of which application is rendered easier, and also far more certain of procuring the true pulse-curve. This modification fully maiutains its value. On the other hand, attempts which have been made to simplify the instrument by essentially altering its principle have so far not succeeded. The application of weight pressure instead of spring pressure, of which we spoke with partial approval in our last report, has not been shown capable of being carried out without in- volving serious fallacies. There seems no mode of applying the weight directly to the artery, consistently with facility, accuracy, and solidity in the adjustment of the instrument to the arm. And it is certain that the method of suspending weights upon the writing lever itself involves important fallacies, for in this way the lever gains factitious velocity, and describes curves which are no real transcript of the movements of the arterial wall. Nothing hitherto devised can compare with Marey's sphygmograph, fastened to Berkeley Hill's pad, for the ease with which it can be so applied as to remain firmly in the position in which it is placed. A still more important matter is the exact graduation of the force with which the tactile spring presses upon the artery. It was men- tioned in our last report that Dr. Burdon-Sanderson had devised a means of iceakening the spring of the sphygmograph in order to get the maximum curve from certain weak pulses, viz. the extension of the spring at its free end. Since that time he has applied the same prin- ciple to the exact measurement of the pressure exerted. In the original sphygmograph of Marey the only provision for regulating the pressure was the screw-button placed at the attached end of the spring; but this was inexact. Sanderson utilises this button for obtaining a standard of maximum pressure, to be subsequently modified as occasion may require. The instrument being fixed in a vice, the free end of the spring is looped by a wire to one end of a balance. In the opposite scale a weight is placed equal to the maximum pressure which we desire that the tactile spring shall be capable of exerting on the artery. In practice it is found that a pressure equal to 300 grammes is a sufficient maximum for the great majority of pulses, but Sanderson has lately found that for some exceptional pulses it is necessary to be able to exert a pressure of 4J0 grammes ; it is therefore desirable to put that weight in the scale. The end of the spring ia thus drawn up through