EE PORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Cholera. M. Fautel, in a work on this disease, and again in a rfoume of his views,* gives an interesting and instructive account of the labours of the International Cholera Conference at Constantinople in 1866. The con- ference adopted the view that cholera is an exotic pestilential disease of Indian origin, and adopted the germ hypothesis of its propagation, i. e. they appear to have been pure contagionists. M. Eauvel rejects the idea that the disease has its origin in marshy effluvia, seeing that inter- mittents and cholera run simultaneously perfectly distinct courses, side by side, in the same locality; and. that it is probable that in India, as elsewhere, the cholera germs have their origin within the human body. No case has been established where the disease could not possibly have, and probably had, been propagated by direct contagion. But it is doubtful whether Pettenkofer's and Thiersch's view ought to be received —that the excreta must undergo a certain degree of fermentation before their poisonous activity can be developed, though it is certain that the excreta are the channel through which the disease is trans- mitted from one human being to another. In the majority of cases the air becomes the vehicle of transmission of the cholera germs, and these are received into the lungs, though their reception through the digestive organs is not entirely excluded. Never- theless, the germs appear to be destroyed by free contact with air, and so the disease is never propagated to a distance by this medium. Hence, also, cholera imported into a district does not necessarily spread. The cessation of a cholera epidemic proceeds from two causes—the resistance offered to its transmission by the surviving individuals, and the more or less rapid extinction of the morbinc germs. The conference insists strongly on naval hygiene—the choice of anchorage, the good supply of food and drink, the use of disinfectants, seclusion of the sick and the immediate casting of their dejections into the sea, &c. In the use of disinfr ctants two objects are to be secured— the destruction of the germs, and, at the same time, the preservatiou of clothes and other perishable articles by the use of such disinfecting * ' Ann. d'Hyg./ xxx, p. 5.