457 POISONING. spasm of the sphincter vesica), and great reflex excitability of the intes- tinal canal. Dr. Fraser finds physostigma to be poisonous to every animal to which it has been administered except the Esere moth, and that it is absorbed by the skin and by serous and mucous membranes, as well as through open wounds. Its activity was not modified in the slightest degree by contact with the gastric juice of a dog for twenty-four hours, at a temperature ofo^0 Fahr. When large doses are given to mammals the heart becomes paralysed, but the post-mortem appearances are those of death from syncope. In moderate doses the symptoms pro- duced are those of asphyxia. Artificial respiration does not prevent death in mammals after the exhibition of a fatal dose of the poison. Alter death the blood is found to be dark ; but it becomes arterialized on exposure to the air, and often clots loosely and imperfectly. In the spectroscope the bands of O-Hb are found unchanged. Dr. Fraser enters into minute and eloborate physiological details as to the action of physostigma, into which, interesting as they are, we cannot here enter. His observations on the local effects of the drug are very important to the oculist. Laburnum.—Several cases of poisoning by this plant have occurred in this country and on the Continent during the last two years,* the symptoms being those of local irritation aud of narcotism (overwhelm- ing sleep, weakuess, and inability to walk). Husemann and Marmef have recently described two alkaloids extracted from the laburnum tree. These observers state that the leaves of the tree are most active in April and May, the seeds and pods in October. Mushrooms.—MM. Letellier andSpeneux have investigated the poison- ous principles of mushrooms.^ In the eyes of these experimenters the distinction between the different genera and species is unimportant in a toxicological point of view. Their experiments were made with the Hypo- phyllum cmx militense, the most deadly of all the tribe. The poisonous principles of several other species are identical with those of this plant. The adminisstration of this fungus produces complex symptoms—vomit- ing, pain, and diarrhoea, succeeded by cold perspirations, syncope, and coma. These effects are produced by two distiuct poisons present in the plant. One of these is an acrid, non-volatile substance, which pro- duces the ordinary symptoms of a vegetable irritant—vomiting, pain, tenesmus, and bloody stools. MM. Letellier and Speneux are of opinion that the inflammation set up by this poison in the intestinal canal delays the absorption of the second and more fatal poison for some hours, for it is well known that narcotic symptoms often do not supervene till ten or twelve hours after the fungus has been eaten. This second poison acts only when absorbed, and is a pure narcotic, its effects being similar to those of narceine. It is obtained from the juice of the plant by a general process used for the extraction of the alkaloids,in the form of a deliquescent, uncrystallisable, brownish, colloid substance, * Vide 'Hanni'.vr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.,' iv, 5, p. 408; * Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 138, p. 158. t ' Handb. d. Toxikologie,' Supplb., 1867, p. 93. X ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' xxvii, p. 71. 30