EPILEPSY. 80 that of his colleague, Professor Barber, it has proved most effective, lie gives it in 30-grain doses three times a day for a long time together. Professor Griesinger describes a series of symptoms of an epileptoid character on the whole, but which are of a doubtful nature and origin. There are many attacks of vertigo found in people in later life. The following are the points of distinction from cases depending on con- gestion or anatomical changes :—tbere are attacks of giddiness in childhood and early youtb which are sometimes rudimentary indeed, and in that case may be excluded from this class. The giddiness is described as a sensation starting from tbe chest, the stomach, and especially from one of the extremities. Consciousness is much dis- turbed. There are also convulsive moving of the lips, or convulsive swallowing, or the patient murmurs a few words, or has sensations of numbness in a part of the body, or finds his strength suddenly vanish. The epileptoid character is most marked in the case of slight and very frequent attacks, not followed by other and more serious affections, especially if they frequently occur at night. It is of consequence to inquire about hereditary disease, the previous occurrence of wounds, and to search for the scars of these. Wherever these attacks exist we may any day expect a fully developed epileptic paroxysm to break out. There is a group of cases which people either overlook altogether or consider to be hypochondriacal or hysterical. They are distinguished from ordinary epilepsy by the remarkable predominance of symptoms in the intervals, and the very slight and incomplete attacks. The majority of patients are young, about twenty years old. The symptoms between the fits are almost limited to the sensitive and psychical organs, and constitute an extremely tormenting influence, which occasionally even upsets the mind. There may be every variety of disturbed sensi- bility, hallucinations, and in men very frequently motility is disturbed in the form of slight twitchings ; there are also disturbances of the vaso-motor and secretory nerves. Whilst these symptoms of a severe general functional disturbance, though varying in particular cases, agree in their permanence on the whole, there are particular attacks which from their obscurity are to be particularly studied. These are especially attacks of giddiness of the character described above, or traumatic cases, or the occurrence of sudden anguish or confusion of mind. In cases where there is suspicion of the epileptoid nature of the attacks it must especially be inquired what are the symp- toms, and especially the intermediate symptoms. There is no sound basis of morbid anatomy, nor can a complete diagnosis be established, but among the group of symptoms we may recognise pathological individualities. The treatment of these cases must be especially con- stitutional, nevertheless certain empiric remedies cannot be omitted. The bromide of potassium has been used by Griesinger, especially in cases of the second group, and in large doses, with strikingly favorable effect ('Arch. f. Psychiat u. Nrvenkr,' p. 230, 1868). Neuritis. Dr. Payrer, of the Medical College Hospital, Calcutta, records the case of a native gentleman, set. 30, who had suffered severely for three