REPORT ON SURGERY. 218 circumscription. Unfortunately, the proportion of malignant cervical growths is much greater than of those suitable for interference." In neither of Mr. Spence's cases was the division of the sterno- mastoid attended by any malposition, or even by any interference with the movements of the head; nor was the section of the cervical portion of the spinal accessory nerve followed by any appreciable bad effect. In the ' New York Medical Eecord' Dr. "\V. Warren Greene has published a case somewhat similar to the above. The patient, an adult male, had suffered for three years from the growth of a tumour, which had then attained the size of a croquet ball, on the left size of the neck, below the sterno-mastoid muscle, and projecting anterior to it. It was apparently quite movable. The operation for its removal was very similar to that in Mr. Spence's case, with the important exceptions that the sterno-mastoid muscle was not divided, and that the internal jugular vein was ruptured in clearing it from the tumour. It was tied^ and about two and a half inches of its length removed. The patient did well. On extirpation of the parotid gland for cancer.—In the ' Deutsche Klinik,' 1867, pp. 222, 228, 236, 248, Prof. Otto Weber states three cases in which he extirpated, as he believes, the entire parotid gland in cancer of that organ; and he appends some observations on the prac- ticability and advisability of the operation. He differs equally with Allan Burns and Hyrtl, who teach that it is anatomically impossible to remove the whole gland, and with Busch, who teaches that extensive degenerations of the parotid are best left alone. He believes, on the contrary, that if the operation be properly performed the bleeding is more easily commanded than in many operations in the neck; and although the facial nerve must be divided and paralysis of that side of the face ensue, this is, in his opinion, only a trifling drawback if, as he believes, cancer may be extirpated, and a complete cure obtained. He thinks there need be little primary bleeding, if the vessels are secured as they are divided or exposed with two ligatures, one on either side; and that there will be no risk of secondary haemorrhage. In the opera- tion he directs that the parotid should be laid bare by an incision parallel to the ascending ramus of the lower jaw, to be crossed, if neces- sary, by another incision. The external carotid may be tied and divided as it passes into the gland at an early period of the operation, if it can be seen; but he does not consider this necessary, nor will the ligature of this artery stop the haemorrhage from its branches. Ligature of the common carotid he dissuades as useless and dangerous. The proper fascia of the parotid is not to be divided if the whole gland is to be extirpated, nor should sharp hooks be inserted into it, since they easily tear this capsule. " In exposing the parotid we come first to the tem- poral artery below the zygoma, the anterior auricular in front of the meatus, and the transverse facial close beneath the articular condyle. It is better to expose all these vessels freely enough to be able to pass a double ligature around them with an aneurism needle before dividing them. At the under and posterior part the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle comes into the way. If this is adherent, a part may be