92 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. of nutrition which the arterial degeneration of advanced life would cause—any of these may suffice to start the local morbid process. 4. A very weighty argument in favour of the idea that central mischief is a factor in all cases of neuralgia is the great frequency of complica- tions such as the author describes, in which various nerve-fibres, quite distinct from those which are the seat of pain, and connected with these only through the centre, are secondarily affected. 5. Those cases in which a localised peripheral lesion is the immediate excitant also require for their explanation the assumption of a pecu- liarity in the individual as one factor, and that the most important, in the production of the neuralgia. Of hundreds of people to whom exactly similar lesions happened every year, not more thau two or three, perhaps, experience any neuralgia, and these will be found, the author believes, to belong to neurotic families. 6. The only cases to which the theory of congenital central imper- fection appears neither applicable nor necessary are those in which an ulceration, sore, or other lesion, extending from neighbouring tissues towards the nerve, maintains a constant depressing centripetal in- fluence, which it is not difficult to suppose might impair the vitality of the posterior root or of the central grey matter. 7. Certain influences, especially that of excessive drinking, which notoriously tend to produce degeneration of the nervous ceutres, are powerful predisposers to neuralgia of the inveterate type. Moreover, the descendants of drunkards, among other evidences of an enfeebled nervous organization, are exceedingly prone to neuralgia. The treatment of neuralgia is considered under three heads—consti- tutional stimulant narcotic, aud local. Of constitutional remedies the author gives, farther, the highest place to nutritive tonics, especially to fatty foods and to cod-liver oil, as the most easily assimilated animal fat. Quiuine he believes to have a very limited range of action outside the sphere of true malarial neuralgias. Iron ho thinks only useful in anamiic cases. In regard to the supposed connection of neuralgia with gout, the author thinks that the frequency of this is probably exag- gerated, and that at any rate in practice specific remedies like colchicum are not often very useful. On the other hand, rheumatism is the undoubted source of a certain number of cases, the affection here pro- bably consisting of an inflammation of the nerve-sheath and of the sur- rounding tissues; iodide of potassium is here of real service. The same may be said of a limited class of cases in which syphilitic deposits press on the nerve and so cause pain. Of narcotic stimulant remedies the author places morphia and atropia far at the head in regard to all superficial neuralgias, and strongly prefers their administration in minute doses subcutaneously. For certain visceral neuralgias, as angina pectoris and ovarian neuralgia, ether in drachm doses is much the best immediate anodyne. As to tonic remedies tending to keep off the attack of the latter neuralgias, the author speaks most strongly of arsenic. In a later paper (' Practitioner,' July, 1868) he announces that apparent powerful results are produced in the same disease by the sub- cutaneous use of strychnine in minute doses. He recommends the