101 TUBEUCUT.AII AFFECTION'S OF THE LARYNX. paraMic insanitv cured ('Lancet,' 1867, ii, p. 146). Thierfelder, sen., prevention of epilepsy and mental diseases (' Prag. Vierteljahrsch.,' 1, 1868). Taylor, cure of vesical palsv, after labour, bv faradisation ('Lancet,' 1868, i, p. 314)- Tabes dorsalis cured (partly) bv constant current (' Wien. Med. Wocbenscb.,' 35, 1868). Trophic inflamma- tion of eve from palsy of facial nerve ('Deutsch. Klin.,' 25, 1867). Eben Watson, tetanus cured by Calabar bean ('Lancet,' 1868, i, p. 434)- Vanzetti, successful section of lingual nerve for neuralgia of tongue ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 8, 1867). C. EESriRATOItY DISEASES. Tubercular Affections of the Larynx. Dr. Otto Prinz, of Dresden, writes on this subject. He remarks that laryngoseopic examination gives a direct contradiction to the common belief that the local deposition of tubercle is the first step to the formation of laryngeal ulcers in tuberculosis. It is shown, on the contrary, that the successive stages are catarrh, infiltration of a spot, and then ulceration; or else ulceration directly follows on catarrh. The evidence is in favour of the iufiammatory origin of tubercular ulcers. In nearly all tuberculous subjects there is visible hyperemia of the larynx, if nothing more. Tuberculous inflammations of the larynx differ in nothing from simple catarrhal affections except in being never acute, but always subacute or chronic. Tuberculous catarrh of the larynx often remains in the merely catarrhal stage down to the date of death; but in other cases it goes through various stages of change, the next one being parenchymatous infiltration. When this attacks the epi- glottis that organ appears thickened and red in its whole extent, or else at its edges; there is difficulty of swallowing, from the sense of dryness and of something sticking in the throat. If the arytseroid cartilages are thickened and red the patients complain of the same thing, and also experience pain when pressure is applied between the sterno-mastoid and the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. When the meso-aryta3noid folds are infiltrated, and appear as wart-like swell- ings between the arytenoid cartilages, the voice is usually thick and hoarse, although the vocal cords may be sound. Infiltration of the false cords is usually one-sided, oftener right than left. The corresponding true cord is covered with soft swelling, generally red, but sometimes normal in colour. Infiltration of the true cords, usually accompanied by ulceration, is distinguished from mere catarrh by the thickening of the cords, by their uneven granular aspect, and by their difficult movements in opening and shutting the glottis. Partial chronic oedema of the larynx is found either around ulcers or in the mucous membrane covering in- flamed, carious, or necrosed cartilage. Tubercular perichondritis may affect all the cartilages, but chiefly attacks the arytamoids; it leads to greater or less destruction of the voice. In the epiglottis it produces swelling of that organ to three or four lines' thickness, and complete change of shape; it generally interrupts the view of the larynx. In both of these affections there is often dysphagia. Perichondritis of the cricoid and of the thyroid occasionally produces emphysema of the skin and abscess. It is a great mistake to suppose, as many do, that tuber- cular ulcers of the larynx only occur in the later stages of tuberculosis.