406 KEl'ORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. without inwards, through the abdominal parietes ; then in making each needle penetrate the thickness of the corresponding lip of the uterine wound, throughout its whole length, and always at the same distance from the margin ; this done, the needles are brought out from within outwards, at the level of the lower angle of the wound. Care must be taken not to pierce into the cavity of the womb. Then a thread is twisted round, the upper ends of the needle, and another round the lower ends; the rigidity of the needles suffice to keep the edges both of the abdominal and uterine wounds in apposition. Then straps of adhesive plaster are applied. Thus parallelism is preserved within the wounds, the escape of matter into the peritoneum is avoided, and the protrusion of intestine is prevented (analysis in the ' Annali Univers. di Medicina,' 1868). Prof. Dohrn reports a case in which the Caesarian section was resorted to on account of a fibroid tumour seated in the posterior wall of the pelvis. The subject was a primipara. Labour having fairly set in, the operation was performed. Child alive. The mother died on the sixth day. Peritonitis was found. The pelvis was contracted generally, as well as by the tumour which sprung from the right upper part of the sacrum and projected into the cavity. The pelvis is figured and mi- nutely described (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867). A case is related by H. Eoberts ('Obst. Trans.,' ix). She died on the sixth day of peritonitis. (See Deformities of Pelvis.) Dr. Greenhalgh exhibited (loc. cit.) the uterus of a patient upon whom Caesarian section had been performed on account of epithelioma of the cervix; death from the disease six months after operation. The incision was reduced to one inch. See Dr. Grenser (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1867). Death on fourth day from peritonitis ; extreme contraction of pelvis. Dr. Casati describes two cases in which Ccesarian section was per- formed, both times on account of pelvic deformity of the third degree from rickets. Consecutive haemorrhage occurred, and death the fol- lowing day ('Ann. Univ.,' 1868). Dr. B. Hicks (' Obst. Trans.,' x) relates a case of Caesarian section. There was a pelvis oblique-ovata. The child survived a month ; the mother died of peritonitis ninety-six hours after operation. Dr. Hicks had punctured the flatulent intestine with a fine trocar. He had done this in four cases of tympanitis with great relief, and without any mark of the operation afterwards. He dwelt upou the disadvantage of operating before labour set in, from the tendency to closure of the cervix; he thought the uterine wound might be closed by the same suture used for the abdominal wound. The Caesarian section is further discussed by Dr. Eadford ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868). Nineteen cases are tabulated. Induction of Labour. Prof. Lazarewitch (' Obstr. Trans.,' ix), in a memoir on this subject, lays down that excitation of the uterus to contract is effective in pro- portion as it is applied near to the fundus; that a stream of water injected by a catheter carried to the fundus is much more efficacious than when simply injected inside the os uteri; that the proceeding is