251 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. being protected by a spatula; and tbe upper articulating surface of the astragalus having also been removed by a metacarpal saw held hori- zontally. The ibot was then restored to its proper position, the cut surface of the astragalus being adapted to the cut surface of the tibia, and the wound having been closed by sutures, except on the outside, which was left open for the free escape of discharge, the leg was placed on its outside on a splint, having an opening corresponding to the wound, and the patient was returned to his bed. "You will, doubtless, have observed that the parts here cut through were the skin, the peronei tendons, the internal and external lateral and the iuferior tibio-fibular ligaments, and the lower ends of the tibia and fibula. In subsequent operations I preserved the tendons entire. In no instance have the anterior or posterior tibial arteries been wounded, and in no instance has it been necessary to apply a single ligature." Mr. Hancock then proceeds to observe upon the difference between this operation and the partial excisions of the foot which have been confounded with it, and observes that, though adopted by some surgeons of reputation, the operation has not met with so much general approval as he thinks it deserves. Mr. Hancock has performed the operation five times, in four with success, the fifth patient dying of lung-disease, " the result of a life of dissipation." Mr. Hancock proceeds to point out that no sloughing need follow the operation, nor need any tendon or vessel be divided; and he relates and comments on cases and statements unfavorable to the operation adduced by Dr. Humphry, Mr. Furneaux Jordan, and Mr. Hussey, the inconclusive nature of which he endeavours to de- monstrate ; and he also points -out that the difficulty of determining, prior to operation, whether the disease is limited to the joint or no, is no objection to the operation, since if the disease is too extensive to be removed by excision, the incisions can be at once used for a Syme's or Pirogoffs amputation. To these opinions adverse to excision Mr. Hancock contrasts, in his second lecture (ibid., July 20, 1867) the favorable opinions expressed by Guthrie and by Mr. H. Smith, a very striking case operated on by Dr. Canniff, Professor of Surgery at Toronto, in which the whole astragalus, half an inch in thickness of the os calcis, and about one and a half inch of the tibia and fibula (in all more than three inches of bone) were successfully removed, and then gives a short account of his own cases. He concludes this part of the subject with the following statistical summary: 111 find that the ankle-joint has been excised 32 times for disease by British surgeons. " That the ages of the patients operated upon varied from 4 to 42 years. " That the sexes given show the proportion of 16 males to 6 females. "That of the 32 patients operated upon, 21 recovered with good useful limb3, 7 died, 2 Buffered secondary amputation and recovered, whilst the result of 2 was doubtful. " The proportion of deaths, consequently, is a fraction above 21 per cent., a large proportion, I must admit, when compared with that of Syme's amputation. But it is not in reality so great when wo inquire