310 REPORT ON SURGERY. having become partially separated by ulceration, was removed bv liga- ture. The patient appeared at one time likely to recover, but ultimately died of pyaemia. On post-mortem examination the ileo-ca?cal valve and adjoining portion of intestine were found absent, either from previous intussusception which had come away (of which there was no history), or from malformation. There was also a fibrous tumour of the gut. The following extracts refer to affections of the urino-genitary organs and of the female breast: Spontaneous fracture of calculi.— In the 'British Medical Journal,' Jan. 4, 1868, Mr. Southam, of Manchester, relates three cases, two under his own care, and the other under that of Mr. Luke, where a calculus, apparently originally single, was found in more than one piece in the bladder. This Mr. Southam believes to be the result of spon- taneous fissure of the calculi, produced, probably, by the generation of some gaseous agent, from chemical changes in their earthy consti- tuents, or from the decomposition of the animal mucus of which their cementing material is formed. He supports this view by a preparation (which he figures), from the Musee Dupuytren, in which such a sepa- ration seems to have taken place, but the pieces have been soldered together and encrusted with a subsequent deposit. In a case related by Liston the separation of calculi into fragments was thought to be due to the mutual impact of several stones on each other during violent exertion ; and in other cases the action of the bladder has been thought to have produced this effect in cases of multiple calculus. But in the three cases here related the stone was single. It is true that, in Mr. Luke's case, a previous attempt had been made to crush the stone; but it was unlikely that this had produced the fissure, since, in the first place, the stone was not felt to be crushed at the time ; secondly, the attempt at lithotrity preceded lithotomy only a short time; while the edges of the fissure were rounded off, as though the operation was of considerable standing. The two cases under Mr. Southam's own care were both in boys, set. 15 and 7. Mr. Southam says— " In each of the cases I have brought forward, there being clear evi- dence that there was but one calculus, we must look for other causes of the fractures. Not only were they single, but, at the time of the frac- ture, two of them were composed almost entirely of lithic acid and oxa- late of lime—materials not likely to be affected by any degree of force which might be applied to them in the movements of the body or from the action of the muscles of the bladder. As the calculus in Mr. Luke's case was composed chiefly of triple phosphate, the lithotrite may pos- sibly have contributed to its fracture, although there is no evidence to that effect; but in the other two, though each patient had been sounded before he came under my care, the stone bad not been detected. Nor could any injury have led to their fracture from my examination, for their structure was too compact to be affected by the sound; and, moreover, their surfaces plainly show that they must have been broken some weeks at least before I discovered them." Dr. Gueniot presented to the Soc. de Chir. a preparation from the