299 FEMORAL ANEURISM. Prof. Porter, once by the late Mr. Sinyly, once by Mr. Butcher, once by Mr. Porter, jun., once by Mr. Collis, and once by Dr. Macnamara himself), and that all these operations were successful except Mr. Butcher's and Mr. Collis's. In the latter case there was a high division of the femoral artery. The ligature was placed just below the profunda (/. e. not on the common femoral at all), and the patient died of secon- dary haemorrhage. This was not, therefore, strictly speakiug, an example of Prof. Porter's operation at all; and as Mr. Butcher's patient died eleven hours after the operation from the effects of the bleeding which had occurred before it, this case also does not count as a death from the operation. Dr. Macnamara, therefore, claims uniform success for the six genuine and complete cases of this operation which have occurred at Dublin. Pive of the operations were performed for popliteal aneur- ism ; Dr. Macnamara's own for haemorrhage after amputation of the thigh. In a discussion on Dr. Macnamara's paper Mr. Collis stated that if a deep transverse incision were made, as Prof. Porter recommended, a number of lymphatic vessels were apt to be divided, leading to unhealthy inflammation. He recommends to make the first incision only through the skin, and then gently draw asunder the subcutaneous tissues, in- cluding the lymphatics, so as to avoid wounding the latter vessels. In order to avoid the accident which happened in his case, he thinks the profunda should be searched for in the neighbourhood of the part to which the ligature is about to be applied. The advantages claimed for this method of tying the femoral are partly its much greater facility, but chiefly the greater immunity of the femoral vein from risk of injury; for the vein lies so far away from the artery at this level that, with ordinary care, the surgeon can hardly injure it in any way, while in Scarpa's space it is often very closely attached to the artery. Femoral aneurism.—Three cases of femoral aneurism, in which the old operation of cutting into the sac, turning out the clots, and tying both ends of the vessel, was performed with success, are related by Mr. Birkett, in the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1, p. 431 ; by Mr. Cooper Porster, in the 'Trans, of the Clinical Soc.,' i, p. 36; and by Mr. Gray, in the 'Lancet,' i, 1868, p. 780. In the two former cases the operation was performed on account of bursting of the sac; in the latter the opera- tion was at first exploratory, as the nature of the swelling was obscure. It had at first presented the ordinary characters of aneurism, but then began to increase without pulsation. In this case also Mr. Paget, who saw the case, thought the sac had given way ; but Mr. Gray could not satisfy himself that such was the case. A tourniquet was applied to the abdominal aorta in the first two cases; in Mr. Gay's there was room to apply it in the groin. In the 'Brit. Med. Journal,' March 16, 1867, will be found the account of a case of femoral aneurism, in which Mr. T. Smith tied the external iliac artery successfully at the early age of twelve. Spontaneous cure of an aneurism of the riyht axillary artery in a case