302 UEPORT ON SURG lilt Y. which had not disappeared two years afterwards. Ia the second case the child died of scarlet fever soon after the operation, the wound not having yet healed. In the third case the child died of laryngismus five days after the operation. [The compiler may observe that he has followed this practice in two cases of najvus near the eyelid, reported in his work on the Surgical Treatment of Children's Diseases, 2nd ed., p. 52, and that in both cases the tumour was removed without formidable haemorrhage, but in neither did. the operation appear to check the spread of the cutaneous disease.] Mr. Teale's paper concludes with the notes of a case in which the injection of perchloride of iron into a nsevus produced instantaneous death, probably from coagulation of the blood in the large veins, extend- ing into the heart. The following extracts refer to affections of the intestinal canal; Internal strangulation of the bowel successfully relieved during life.—Iu the* Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1, p. 67, Mr. Biyant has related a case in which a man who had an old hernia suffered, after some exertion, from symp- toms of strangulation of the bowel. The hernial sac, however, was completely empty, and the finger could be passed through the ring. As the patient was rapidly sinking from faecal vomiting and the ordinary symptoms of strangulation, Mr. Bryant decided on performing an ex- ploratory operation. He cut into the hernial sac, ascertained that it contained only a piece of adherent omentum, exposed some thickened and cedematous bowel which lay near the abdominal opening of the hernia, and by passing the finger along this felt a fibrous cord which crossed the intestine. This was quite within the belly, and almost out of reach, until the wound had been enlarged. Then a pair of scissors was passed up to the band, and it was snipped across. The patient re- covered without a bad symptom. Mr. Bryant adds another case in his practice iu which a similar operation might have been performed with every prospect of success ; but the state of the parts was not recognised during life, and the patient died from gangrene of the intestine. On subcutaneous rupture of the constricting rings in the taxis of hernia. —In the ' Annali Universali di Medicina,' 1867, 200, 201, pp. 346 and 83, will be found an interesting series of cases of incarcerated and strangulated hernia, recorded by Prof. Larghi, of Vercelli, in order to show the advantages derived from the forcible rupture of the ring constricting the hernial tumour by the thumb or fingers introduced under them. By this means the author says he succeeded in reducing every hernia with which he had to deal between the years 1856 and 1864; but he does not give the number or any approximation to the number of the cases. The method is thus described in one of the cases iu this series:—a large congenital inguinal hernia on the right side, strangulated for about nine hours, and which had resisted the ordinary taxis. The patient was laid flat in bed, without any pillows, with a bolster rolled beneath his knees, " I placed my right thumb on the