REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 482 * Loc. cit. there is delirium. In two or three hours the effect passes off. The kidneys seem to he the active agents in eliminating the alkaloid from the system, for this may he found in the urine eighteen minutes after the injection of ^ of a grain of sulphate of atropia, and it is gene- rally entirely removed at the end of two or three hours. To the toxi- cologist this elimination of the alkaloid by the urine is of great im- portance, as it is readily demonstrated. If on applying a few drops of the urine to the eye of a kitten or rabbit, dilatation of the pupil is pro- duced, this points directly to one or two plants; and it is possible to detect the alkaloid in the urine when only of a grain is given. This is probably the least quantity that can destroy a new-born child. With regard to the therapeutical uses of belladonna, Dr. Harley shows that it must be looked upon as a diuretic and a most hopeful remedy in cases of suppression of urine, accompanied or not by uramic symp- toms, the dose being gr. of sulphate of atropia, subcutaneously injected; as a means for increasing the oxidizing process within the body, in similar doses ; and as a cardiac stimulant, and for this purpose gr- *8 sufficient. No medicine in the whole materia medica can directly and immediately increase the force and rapidity of the heart's action to one fourth the degree that belladonna is capable of doing; hence its great value in the collapse of cholera, in syncope from asthenia, and in cases where there is great loss of blood. Certain conditions interfere with the action of belladonna upon the system. Thus, children are less susceptible than adults, and occasionally bear very large doses. The fixed caustic alkalies, caustic ammonia, and lime, decompose the active principle of belladonna, though not till after the lapse of some time. Hyoscyamus.—This medicament also received investigation from the same observer,* a sulphate of hyoscyamia, prepared by Dr. Harley, being used. It is questionable whether, however, this was a pure substance, as it was brown and imperfectly crystalline. Injected subcutaneously, the salt caused at first slight increase in the frequency and power of the pulse, then a considerable decrease of frequency, unaccompanied by any alteration in volume or power, giddiness, sleepiness, and dilatation of the pupil; in some cases slight twitchings, dryness of the mouth and air-passages, and delirium. "When hyoscyamus, or its active principle, is absorbed by the alimentary mucous membrane, precisely similar effects follow, and the action is usually manifested within an hour. A " Succus Hyoscyami" was prepared analogous to the " Succus Conii," and it produced symptoms of equal intensity to those of the alkaloid. Three ounces of the "succus" produced symptoms equal in intensity to those mentioned above. In the adult from 5vj to 5j of the tincture, or 10 to 15 gr. of the fresh extract, are usually sufficient to produce decided dryness of the roof of the mouth, acceleration of the pulse, dilated pupil, and a moderate degree of somnolency. Children will often take a very large quantity of henbane ; doses varying from 5ij to 5j of the juice and tincture have been given continuously to young patients without produc- ing any dryness of the mouth or any other symptom beyond increased frequency of the pulse and dilatation of the pupils. In its action upon