253 chopart's amputation. the operation. Still, according to Mr. Hancock, Chopart did not de- scribe the proper anatomical points by which the amputation is facili- tated, so that in his hands it was a difficult proceeding, but was rendered easy by Rieherand and Bichat, who pointed out the value of the tuber- osity of the scaphoid bone as a guide. "A great desideratum to the surgeon is to be able to enter the articulation readily, and for this purpose the directions laid down by Chelius appear to me to be ample. ' The operator,' he says,' places the tip of his forefinger on the prominence or tuberosity of the scaphoid, and the flat of his thumb behind the prominence of the fifth metatarsal bone. A line drawn across the dorsum of the foot behind the finger and thumb indicates the joint.' " Mr. Hancock then dwells on the difference in opinion between good surgeons as to the treatment of the exposed ends of the os calcis and astra- galus—some preferring to leave their cartilaginous ends exposed, others to saw them off, to which latter opinion Mr. Hancock himself seems to incline. In his third lecture Mr. Hancock combats the objection which Mr. Svme has raised against Chopart's amputation, as being very liable to be followed by secondary amputation above the ankle. This, he says, is not supported by the statistics of the operation, for out of 104 cases, exclusive of those mentioned by Mr. Syme, only % were followed by secondary amputation, and that not for recurring disease, but for re- traction of the heel and painful cicatrix. He gives examples from several authorities of the occurrence of these causes of failure after Chopax-t's amputation, and he relates the following instance in which the parts were dissected after the operation: "In 1843 Dr. Stanski amputated a leg upon which Chopart's operation had been performed in 1839. ^ne patient, not being able to walk, had in 1842 undergone division of the tendo Achillis and the removal of a portion of the os calcis without deriving any benefit. Upon dissection he found that the tendons of the back of the leg, viz. the tibialis pos- ticus, the long flexor of the great toe, and the flexor communis digi- torum, were firmly attached to the anterior portion of the inferior surface of the os calcis. The tendons of the two peronei muscles were also attached to this bone ; so that the pulleys around which they play being posterior to their insertions, their contractions caused the os calcis and astragalus to be pointed downwards, as in extension. The tendons of the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis were inserted on the skin, and their insertion consequently being movable, these muscles exerted no influence over the bones, and the long extensor of the great toe, inserted into the posterior border of the anterior facet of the astragalus, was the only muscle to cause anything like flexion. Nearly all the 03 calcis in front of the superior articulation had been removed; but the greater part remained as well as the astragalus, which was carious. Both the bones were drawn so much backwards and up- wards that the os calcis posteriorly touched the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia. The os calcis was likewise strongly fixed in extension by the posterior fibres of the lateral ligaments, especially by those of the external, which formed a strong solid cord. The astra-