RETINITIS, ETC. 3G3 foiled, and in the courso of four months she became perfectly blind. ■\Vhen the author first saw her the optic discs were in a state of com- plete white atrophy. The second sister, when twenty years old, suddenly fell down unconscious, and was convulsed. On recovery her mind was confused and her speech embarrassed. Another attack occurred a few hours later, and was followed by deep sleep. On awaking she complained of severe headache, and of a constantly thicken- ing mist before her sight. On the day following she described herself as being blind, but when Dr. Meyer visited her two days later she could see the glimmer of a lamp two yards distant. The field of vision, tested by means of two candles, was considerably, but irregularly, con- tracted. The pupils were largely dilated. The ophthalmoscope showed the optic discs much swollen, elevated, opaque, and of a reddish-grey colour. The retina near the disc was opaque; the veins were large, flexuous, and deeply coloured; the arteries fine. The conditions were precisely those described by von Graefe as due to neuritis from obstruc- tion to the circulation by constriction in the sclerotic ring. After a treatment by cold applications to the head, sinapisms to the legs, free purging, and the application of Heurteloup's leech to the temples, the case eventually terminated in recovery, the retina and discs regaining nearly their normal aspect, and the patient being able to read jNo 10 of Jager. The author concludes his report by some general observations on the affections of the eyes produced by lead poisoning. Dr. Haase* reports from the Wiesbaden Eye Hospital a case of blindness from lead poisoning, in which speedy recovery followed the use of daily subcutaneous injections of morphia. Under the name of retinitis nyctalopica Arltf describes a disorder characterised by impairment of vision, with dazzling by ordinary day- light. He prescribes rest of the eyes, a dimly lighted chamber, blue spectacles for out-door exercise, cooling derivatives, leeching behind the ears, and a course of mercury followed by iodide of potassium. Of 33 cases, 17 recovered, 9 improved, the rest remained stationary. H. MartialisJ has written a memoir to show that, in most cases, hemera- lopia is caused by a serous effusion, the result of retino-choroiditis, and that the aggravation of this condition may produce in the optic nerve and its expansion all the disorders observed in exudative retinitis. He describes the anatomical lesions in the manner following:—In the most simple cases, when the malady lasts only a day or two, and may be compared to the disturbance of vision that is produced by passing from a light to a darker place, no lesion can be observed; there is only a molecular perturbation, a temporary stimulation that destroys for a time the keenness of the sense, and acts on the retina like a pene- trating odour on the olfactory nerves, when it masks sensations of a less degree of intensity. Still, the nocturnal dilatation of the pupil is even then observable. In a more advanced stage the retina loses its transparency, not immediately in its whole extent, save in very f.-xceptional cases, of which the author has seen only two, but in irre- * ' Klin. Monatsbl./ 1867. t 'Bericht iiber die Augenklinik der Wiener Univcrsitat,' 1867. % ' Archives de Medecine Navale,' 1868.