ABNORMAL GESTATION. 393 the sacrum. Some days later, along with considerable haemorrhage, a piece of decidua came away, and there was felt a small circumscribed swelling behind the abdominal wall, projecting over the left horizontal pubic branch. The bleeding returned profusely on the 16th March, a fresh attack of pain having preceded. On examining now there was decided latero-version of the uterus, the fundus being pushed to the right, the 08 to the left. In the left side of the pelvis a spindle-shaped swelling was felt through the vaginal wall, aud the same swelling was dis- tinguished through the abdominal wall externally. Moving it caused acute pain. These symptoms and the decided growth of the swelling led to the conclusions that it was an extra-uterine gestation, and that the further development ought to be arrested. Dr. Martin puuctured the swelling with a fine trocar. A few drops of watery blood followed. Eight days later it was ascertained that the swelling had not increased, but a sharp rigor set in. Some days later the tumour was smaller, and the uterus had recovered its normal direction. On the 4th May the patient was considered well (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' Feb. 1868). Dr. Poppel's case is as follows:—A woman, set. 29, had borne two living children. She menstruated on the 1st May, 1867. On the 20th June she felt ill with severe abdominal pains. The uterus was found enlarged, and there was a small show of blood, suggesting abortion. iXext morning the abdomen was greatly distended, fluctuation was plain, there was acute anaemia and deep collapse, although the haemor- rhage per vaginam had not increased. Fifteen hours after the onset of her illness death ensued. The diagnosis was acute perforative peritonitis, with internal haemorrhage. Autopsy—Much free fluid blood was found in the abdomen. The uterus was enlarged, of irregular shape; its right side was strongly bowed at the fundus, and exhibited on its upper and hinder surface two irregular rents, through which portions of placenta and of a foetus protruded. The right tube was inserted a little higher on the body of uterus than the left. On open- ing the uterus lengthwise two cavities were exposed. The lower one, which was the uterine cavity proper, was clothed by a thick decidua. The upper cavity was divided from the lower by a partition of muscular nature, but communicating by a hole admitting the finger; it con- tained a fresh dead foetus corresponding to a development of five months. The cavity was clothed by ovum-membranes and placenta. A. corpus luteum was found in the left ovary. It followed that there had been a transmigration of the ovum, but whether extra- or intra- uterine could not be determined ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' Feb. 1868). Dr. Dreesen relates that a woman, set. 35, had had three living children. Pregnant again, abdominal gestation was diagnosed by Professor Litzmann. She dated conception from the middle of June, i860. Pains and haemorrhage occurred about the middle period of the presumed pregnancy. The abdomen and breasts enlarged, vomiting often attended the pains. Foetal movements were felt. She then got better; but in March, 1861, pains lasting a whole week, different from labour-pains, and foetal movements recurred. These movements grew :more feeble and ceased on the 30th March. A sensation of burning in the stomach remained, with severe vomiting of grass-green matter. 26