445 POISONING. green (arsenio-acetate of copper), where other workers were unaffected, to investigate the conditions under which cutaneous absorption of poisons takes place. Having ascertained by experiments on himself that no absorption of iodide of potassium occurred when baths of this salt were used, if the precaution were taken of carefully wiping the surface of the body on coming out of the bath—that if on leaving the bath the adherent liquid were allowed to evaporate spontaneously on the surface of the body, absorption did take place—and that when the drv and finely powdered salt was dusted over the body absorption like- ^Yi#e occurred—he was led to infer that the condition which determines absorption is one of capillarity, the natural oily secretion of the skin preventing the absorption of aqueous solutions; whereas substances dissolved in fat, or capable of solution in it, are readily absorbed. Excretion of poisons.—Dr. Lambe,* of Ulm, has made experiments on the excretion of poisons. He finds that ligature of the renal vessels has no influence upon the poisonous action of strychnia, but that if now artificial respiration be performed, the spasms of strychnia-poisoning are suspended. He also confirms a previous statement^ that domestic fowls are almost unaffected, by strychnia, and. states that guinea-pigs tolerate a dose of this poison five times as great as that which rabbits of equal weight are able to bear. Dr. "W. H. BroadbentJ attempts to apply chemical principles in explanation of the action of poisons. His paper, which has appeared only in abstract, is founded, on these two postulates :—i. That there must be some relation between the substance administered and the animal organism on which the effects depend. 2. That, so far as the substance is concerned, the basis of the relation can only be its che- mical properties, using the term in its widest sense. One of the most interesting of Dr. Broadbent's speculations is that relative to the poi- sonous action of prussic acid. He considers that prussic acid is carried by the blood to. the nerve-centres; that under the influence of the affinities thus brought to bear upon the poison (affinities which normally determine the oxidation by which nerve-force is evolved), its elements are dislocated from each other, and the C and H, liberated in the latent condition appropriate the 0 destined for the evolution of nerve-force, which is thus arrested. He supports this hypothesis by the following facts :—When the elements of hydrocyanic acid are held together by some supporting affinity, as in ferrocyanogen, no poisonous effect is produced; artificial respiration, especially with oxygen, is the great means of neutralizing the effects of this poison; and it has been found by him that a proportion of prussic acid diffused in equal volumes of air and of oxygen respectively has a decidedly less powerful action on the animal in the latter case. Dr. Broadbent's experiments are not yet completed, so we leave the consideration of many interesting points raised in his paper till we are in possession of full details. Cadmium.—Marme' has investigated the toxic effects of the salts of * ' Archiv f. Anat. Phys. u. "Wissensch. Med.,' 1867, p. 629. t Ibid., 1865, p. 602. % ' Pr. Roy. Soc.,' xiv, p. 465.