348 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUROERY. fested. Morphia was injected subcutaneously, and cold lotions applied to the head. After four injections the symptoms abated, and by the next day the patient had recovered. It is worth while to observe that a very complete account of atropine has been contributed to .the ' Dictionnaire Encyclopedique des Sciences Medicales,' by MM. Lutz. Gobley, Gubler, and Orfila. These authors deal, in the order men- tioned, with the chemical, pharmacological, therapeutical, and toxico- logical aspects of the drug. Dr. Meuriot* has published a treatise on the subject, and Mr. Soelberg Wellsf has reviewed all the questions connected with the use of atropine in iritis. Lachrymal obstructions have been the subject of pamphlets and papers. Dr. Stilling, of Hesse Cassel.J treats obstructions of the nasal duct by internal incisions. First slitting the canaliculus, he introduces a probe into the sac in the ordinary way, and carries it down to the stricture, to ascertain its situation and firmness. Then, withdrawing the probe, he uses instead of it a small knife made for the purpose,ยง with a somewhat rounded point, and a blade increasing in width to the heel. This knife is pushed through the stricture and into the nose, and its edge is then made to divide the thickened tissues in several directions, up to the bony walls of the duct. No further treatment is usually needed. Dr. Ulrich Herzenstein|| has attempted to accomplish the same complete division by splitting the stricture with an instru- ment that is a copy in miniature of that used by Mr. Barnard Holt for the urethra. He also employs lotions in very copious streams, by means of a kind of pump, connected by tubing with a canula capable of entering the duct. Warlomont^j assists Stilling's treatment, in cases complicated with morbid states of the mucous membrane, by introducing, after the operation, and leaving for a time in the duct, stylets of a kind invented by Dr. Libbrecht, of Gaud. These stylets are as thick as Bowman's No. 4 probe, four centimetres long, and fur- nished with a recurved upper portion. They have three or four longi- tudinal grooves down their whole length, and these form capillary channels, to guide along the passages any lotion that is put into the internal angle of the eye. The author recommends a solution of chlo- ride of zinc, of from 3 to 5 parts in 500 parts of water, to be used three times a day, and advises the patients to sniff when the lotion is applied, in order to promote its passage along the duct. Prom fifteen to eighteen days will usually complete the cure. Prof. Alfred Graefe** advises excision of the caruncle in cases in which stricture has been dilated, disorder of the mucous membrane removed, and in which the tears still do not flow freely away. He believes that tin's organ is sometimes a mechanical impediment to their escape. Zehenderft * ' Dela Mfithode pliysiologique et therapeutique, et de ses applications a l'ctudc de la Belladone,' Paris, 1868. f Op. cit., p. 154 et seq. + ' Uber die Heilung der Verengerungcn der Thriinemvege,' Cassel, 1868. ยง May be obtained of Weiss and Son. || ' Beitrage znr Physiologie und Thcrapie der Thriincnorgane,' Berlin, 1868. % ' Annales d'Oculistique,' 1868. ** ' Klin. Monatsbl.,' 1868. tf Ibid., 1S67.