DISJUNCTION OF TIBIAL EPIPHYSIS. operation consists in introducing a drill or small cliisel (according to circumstances) into the position of the joint, and thereby severing the bony adhesions until the parts yield. The drill (which is figured in the paper) is similar to that used by cutlers to drill ebony, and either it or the chisel can be introduced through an incision one fourth to one third of an inch in length. Care must be taken in operating at the back part of the joint to avoid injury to the popliteal artery. The operation ought never to be performed in any case of non-osseous ankvlosis, nor where there is any inflammatory symptom present. In some cases the tendons must be divided at the same time.: The small wound is united at once, and hermetically sealed with collodion, and the limb carefully bandaged and supported on a splint. After some days an extending apparatus is applied and ankylosis is obtained in a nearly straight position. Four cases operated on by Dr. Gross him- self, and one by Dr. F. F. Maury, are given. In all a most useful limb was obtained, with but little shortening, the knee having in each case been ankylosed at nearly a right angle. On a new method of reducing dislocation of the Jiead of the humerus. !—At the Frankfort meeting of German naturalists and physicians, Dr. Heine, of Heidelberg, described the following novel plan of reducing a luxation at the shoulder-joint. The case in which it was first applied with success was one of subclavicular luxation of the humerus of 7 weeks' standing. Extension and other means of reduction had been attempted, with the aid of chloroform, but with no success, as the head of the bone could not be lifted over the anterior border of the. glenoid cavity. The elbow of the affected side being bent at a right angle, Dr. Heine grasped the arm with his right hand, and the forearm with his left; he then raised the extremity to the vertical position and forced the elbow backwards, so that the upper arm formed an obtuse angle with the posterior surface of the neck (hyperelevation and retroflexion). The humerus was thus converted into a lever of the second form. The scapula formed the fulcrum upon which the surgical neck of the hume- rus rested, and the head forming the short arm of the lever was, whilst the shoulder was forced by an assistant, readily brought'up to the level of the articular surface of the scapula. The arm was then circumducted from behind forwards—the head of the patient being turned to the opposite side ; and, as it was finally depressed and rotated inwards, the head of the humerus slipped audibly into the articular cavit}r. The action of the limb was now free, and the patient in a short time was able to perform nearly all the normal movements.—' Deutsche Klinik,' '46, 1867. (From the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Feb. 22, 1868.) On a rare form of injury of the ley. By Richard Quain, F.B.S. From the 'British Medical Journal,' Aug. 31, 1867.—In his able address in surgery at the late anniversary meeting of the British Medical Asso- ciation in Dublin (' British Medical Journal' for Aug. 17), Dr. E. W. Smith describes an instance of a very rare form of injury—the separation of the lower epiphysis of the tibia. " ' The disjunction,' to quote some of Dr. Smith's words, 'of the lower epiphysis of the tibia is undoubt- 17