486 IthPOJtT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. agents as do not act injuriously upon the latter. The securing of both these conditions prevents the use of many otherwise most valuable disinfectants. The conference has not resolved this most difficult problem. The conference divided the consideration of measures of quarantine into three heads—the degree of utility of quarantine measures, quaran- tine proper, and the quarantinary regime applicable to the productions of cholera-infected countries. Considerable differences of opinion seem to have been held by the members of the conference. The members were, however, of opinion that the presence or absence of a clean bill of health on a ship's arrival in port ought to be the criterion as to whether quarantine de rigueur, as the French term it, should or should not be enforced ; whilst in cases where a clean bill of health is forthcoming in times of cholera epidemic a simple quarantine " of observation " should be enforced. Having determined that the period of incubation of cholera is very short—usually a few days, and rarely exceeding a week— they fixed ten days as the period to which quarantine ought to extend, the period to commence from the arrival of the ship in port. Many exceptions were made, however, to this rule. When a vessel arrives in port from an infected place with an unclean bill of health, she must be subjected to quarantine de rigueur, i.e., the vessel must discharge her cargo, be disinfected, and the crew and passengers are to be placed in a lazar-house. The conference expressed a wish that henceforth the term " sporadic " cholera should be discontinued. Its use gives rise to an ambiguity, for it may mean that the cases are isolated ones of genuine Asiatic cholera, or that they are severe cases of non-epidemic English cholera. In respect to measures having for their object the prevention of new invasions of cholera into Europe, the conference considered, firstly, pro- phylactic measures in India ; and, secondly, prophylactic measures in the countries intermediate between India and Europe. Under the first head they recommend the vigorous carrying out the " Native Passenger Act," the delivery to every vessel leaving an Indian port of a bill of health, and the superintendence, by proper sanitary authorities, of the regulations relative to the embarkation of pilgrims, and that each Mussulman pilgrim be required to prove that he can bear the expense of the voyage and the support of his family during his absence. The British Government has already legislated in accordance with the latter wish of the conference. The routes by which cholera has invaded Europe in the epidemics of 1830, 1847, and 1865, are considered in M. Fauvel's memoir, and the prophylactic means to be adopted in the countries intervening betwixt India and Europe. The visitation of 1853 is not regarded as a distinct invasion, but as a part of the epidemic of 1847, which, having left foci here and there, and visited America, was reimported into Spain from Havanah, whence it spread into France, England, and the East. Persia is of all countries the most exposed to invasions of the disease ; and once there, cholera radiates from the populous centres by means of the caravans of pilgrims or of merchants. But the malady does not seriously menace Europe except when it has reached the south