DELIRIUM. 77 desirable, in view of the difficulties which often attend the administra- tion of medicines by the mouth to the insane, that the number of pos- sible hypodermic remedies should be as greatly as possible extended. ('Zeitsch. f. Psychiatric,' 1867.) Delirium. Dr. Handheld Jones relates ('St. George's Hospital Ecports,' 1869) eight cases to illustrate delirium. In the first it was mainly the result of mental anxiety, and a few doses of half a grain of tartar emetic, with some morphia and henbane, subdued it. The second was a case of mania transitoria, which passed oft' in a few days. The third was hys- teric delirium, which was quieted by inhaling chloroform. The fourth was apoplectic. The fifth slight delirium in a debilitated subject, after nose-bleeding. The sixth was a case of a stout man, physically over- worked, and having undergone mental shock some years before, from which he had never recovered. Strychnine, nitric acid, and valerian and other tonics, quickly cured him. Cases 7 and 8 were fatal; the former a complication of fever and tuberculosis, the latter with convulsions. Jones remarks that delirium and convulsions are allied conditions ; in both there is undue excitability and mobility. They may be taken as a type of irritation, which condition has the following features :—The part aflected is unduly impressionable, is less of its natural stimuli than in health ; its functional energy is lowered; it is less capable of doing its appointed work, but is much more readily set in action. At the same time its nutritive actions are deranged ; its secretions, if it be a secreting organ, are often increased or morbidly changed ; while its vessels, par- ticipating in the general enfeeblement, no longer duly regulate the blood-supply, or restrain their contents from exuding in excessive quantities. Dr. A. W. Barclay reports three case3 of delirium, apparently depend- ing on anaemia of the brain. The first was a case of acute rheumatism, in a female, set. 21, in whom slight signs of pericarditis had been noticed on the eleventh day, but had then passed off*, and the course had been entirely favorable during the next three or four days, except that a slight delirium had come on. On the nineteenth day she was affected with so much tremor as to give rise to the suspicion of delirium tremens; but inquiry proved that she was quite a temperate person. In spite of opium the delirium became violent, the face wore a dusky hue, and the breathing was much oppressed. She sank into a state of coma and rapidly died. On dissection the brain and membranes were found healthy, except that they were rather drier than usual. There were congestion of the lungs and slight signs of pleurisy and pericarditis, and also of peritonitis. The spleen was soft and flabby, the uterus highly vascular internally, purulent fluid flowing from the os. The knee- joints were found affected with intense fibrinogenic inflammation. The second case was that of a man, oat. 30, with slight rheumatic fever; he was of drunken habits, and had been accustomed to get vio- lent when in licjuor. On the tenth day his manner became peculiar; he took an aversion to the man in the next bed to him, and looked