of the iloyal Academy of Medicine of Turin for Aug. 13, 1867) relative HE POUT ON SURCEItY. what to limit extension of the arm; the head of the radius was also regenerated, though less perfectly. There was a perfect joint, with a complete capsule hetween the ulna and humerus. The muscles were as well developed on that side as on the other, and there was no shortening appreciable by measurement. Excision of both elbows.—In the first volume of the 'Clinical Society's Transactions,' p. 143, the present compiler relates a case (the first which, as far as he can find, has been published) of excision of both elbows, showing the propriety and success of operations in cases of so-called strumous disease, even when several joints or parts of the body are attacked, and the great usefulness of the arms when the elbow has been successfully removed on both sides. Subperiosteal resection of a large portion of the entire circumference of tlie femur.—In the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 2, 1868, Mr. Joseph Bell relates a case of acute periostitis of the femur, terminating in necrosis of the entire circumference of the shaft of the bone, in a boy a?t. 10. The patient having been in a very weakly and distressed condition during the early part of the case, no new bone was formed. Bather more than four months after the commencement of the disease the upper end of the dead bone separated from the living, causing sponta- neous fracture near the trochanter. There was then so little resistance in the periosteal tissues that the limb became nearly six inches shorter than the other; the knee-joint also became inflamed, the leg greatly swollen, and the boy's condition so bad that it was necessary to do something to relieve him from the irritation. About a month after the fracture the dead bone was extracted, without any difficulty, through a free incision on the outer side of the thigh. It measures in the drawing six inches, and in the lower half the whole thickness of the femur is comprised. The interior of the periosteum was plugged with lint to repress haemorrhage. The membrane was "thickened, but barely ossified." After the removal of the bone ossification went on with great rapidity, and no unfavorable symptom ensued, except the exfolia- tion of very numerous fragments of bone. The boy had completely recovered eighteen months after the commencement of the attack, could walk and run nimbly with a high-heeled shoe, having regained the use of the knee-joint almost entirely. The limb was shortened one and three quarters of an inch, and was well nourished, being only three quarters of an inch in circumference less than the other. Mr. Bell states that no parallel case had then been published, except one by Dr. Handyside in the 'London and Edinb. Journ.,' Dec. 1844. A case exactly parallel to the above, except that the portion removed was not so long, will be found related by the present compiler at p. 395 of a work 'On the Surgical Treatment of Children's Diseases,' recently published. Subperiosteal resection of the knee.—In the 'Gazette Mddicale de Paris,' 1867, p. 601, is a note by Sig. Larghi (extracted from the ' Gioruale'