It M PORT ONT PRACTICAL MKDIC1XE. 1 is operation so often fails is, to a large extent, because an exact appreciation is not made of the circumstances in which it is most effective. One must have a clear idea of what one iutends to do, and especially whether puncture or incision, or even resection of the ribs, may be the best pro- ceeding. He is convinced from his experience that the operation, properly employed, is a most valuable addition to the resources of medicine. Kussmaul relates the case of a boy of j years with a purulent effusion of three months' standing, and in whom suffocation was imminent. A fine trocar was introduced in the sixth intercostal space on a line with the nipple; greenish-yellow pus without smell escaped. In twenty- four hours 24 oz. of pus escaped through the canula without any entrance of air. The most striking improvement was observed. Pus was evacuated during six months through the tube. When the exit of pus was prevented by the valvular closure of the tube the patient invariably got worse, and was immediately benefited by a fresh evacua- tion. The patient was discharged in six months, but his parents did not sufficiently attend to the escape of the pus, and in three months he came back to the hospital. An iodine solution was then injected daily, and the secretion was much diminished. In four months' time he was discharged with a slight contraction of the left side, but otherwise in quite good health. In the case of a child of 18 months, with purulent effusion of four months' standing in the right pleura, a silver canula was introduced into the fifth intercostal space and fastened in. In five or six weeks the child was dismissed with considerable contraction of the right side, which, however, righted itself after some years. In the third case there was pyopneumothorax following puerperal fever. There were great constitutional distress and dyspnoea, and also fetid expectoration and breath. An incision was made in the eighth intercostal space two inches from the spine; air passed out first and then 100 oz. of stinking pus. The fever was much reduced. After the operation an elastic catheter six inches long was introduced. The pus passed out from this with each cough ; if its exit was barred feverish- ness at once occurred. The lung gradually assumed its proper size, the vesicular breathing was heard; as the secretion diminished, the catheter was removed. The patient was cured in eight weeks after the operation. In another case, a girl of 19, whose family was phthisical, had double pneumonia and bronchitis with extensive empyema of the right side; the left knee-joint and ankle were painful and swollen, and it seemed as if their inflammation was due to purulent infection. A puueture was made in the fifth intercostal space on a line with the nipple, and the wound kept open. The pus which flowed out soon became stinking; an elastic catheter was therefore introduced. So long as free discharge of the pus occurred the joint affection disappeared, but returned if there was a stoppage. The wound was enlarged and a bougie introduced to keep it open. Eepeated injections of sulphite of soda and camomile tea were introduced with the best effect upon the character of the pus. Some little time later injections of iodine were substituted. The patient