REPORT ON SURGERY. 240 merely "an intersection, like the semilunar lines m the ahdominal rectus." Wo continue in Mr. Barwell's own words : "This muscular arrangement acts at great advantage in turning the upper part of the body on the pelvis ; its base of attachment to the spine is small, its leverage short, that to the chest very large, and in con- tracting it draws the ribs of that side backwards. Each rib having at- tachment to the body, and also to the transverse process of the vertebra, becomes thus a lever of the second class, whose power arm is the length from the muscular attachment to its head, whose weight arm is the dis- tance from head to tubercle ; it is, indeed, a crow-bar very powerful to twist each vertebra on its own axis. This function of the rib is attested by the fact that when the serratus ceases to be inserted, the spinal at- tachment of the rib no longer affords a purchase for such action. In losing the double conjunction to body and transverse process, the lower ribs abrogate the arrangement of fulcrum and weight necessary to lever- like action on the vertebrae, and at the same time the serratus ceases to be attached to the ribs. " Now let us consider the action of the serratus under another point of view. It was said in a former paper that only a small portion of the weight of the shoulder was supported by the upper fibres of the trapezius, otherwise its action on the head would have to be counteracted by other muscles, which would greatly interfere with the freedom and mobility of the head and neck. Therefore the upper angle of the scapula hangs to the spine by its levator muscle; but the outer angle, the shoulder-joint and the arm, is supported by the serratus, which, drawing the base and lower angle of the shoulder outwards and forwards, keeps the outer (acromion and shoulder) upwards and backwards. The weight, there- fore, of the shoulders and of the arms falls, through the medium of the serrati, upon the ribs, and this weight tends to keep them back— equally, of course, on both sides of the 'chest if the arms be of equal weight. "The most important function, however, of the serrati is respira- tory ; they lift and draw back the ribs on each side of the chest as far as the freedom at the joints permits, thus enlarging the cavity of the thorax. In forced inspiration this action is very marked; but man during quiet breathing hardly uses the muscle at all, his respiration being chiefly abdominal; woman's ordinary quiet breathing is, on the. other hand, very much more pectoral, her chest and bosom rising con- stantly with each inspiration, even during sleep. In woman, then, more than in man, the ribs are drawn backwards in inspiration—an action which would be equal on both sides of the chest if both lungs admitted the same quantity of air. " The hypothetical sentences at the end of the last two paragraphs are of importance. The arms are not of equal weight, nor are the lungs of the same size. A boy or youth, however, uses free exercise, swings his arms as he walks, and lolls and lounges about in all conceivable po- sitions, thus giving variety to the manner in which the shoulders are supported ; and, above all, he breathes chiefly by the diaphragm. The girl or young woman takes less free exercise ; in walking she lets the arm hang almost motionless from the shoulder, sits decorously upright, so