74 REPORT ©N PRACTICAL MEDICINE. his delusions and all his other symptoms disappeared, and on the sixty- first day from his entrance to the asylum he was discharged, perfectly well to all appearance, and having been so for several days. Dr. Stone makes these remarks :—" That excessive mental work, with insufficient nourishment and sexual excess, will cause paralytic insanity, is univer- sally admitted. That the subject of this case had overtaxed his brain, and had always been neglectful as regarded his diet, was affirmed by his friends ; that he was addicted to self-abuse is an indisputable fact. We may therefore reasonably conclude, I think, that the coexistence of these gave rise to F. G—'s insanity; of this there exists no doubt in my mind. Is it surprising, then, that abstinence from mental work, with nutritious diet, constant exercise, varied amusements, and the diversion of the patient's mind from some subjects and the drawing of his attention to others, together with medical treatment, should have had such a salutary effect, and have finally contributed most happily to the patient's restoration to health?" ('Lancet,' February 2, 1867). Melancholia from Emlolism of the Brain-vessels. Dr. Joffe, of the Vienna Lunatic Asylum, relates a singular case. A woman, set. 46, was seized with melancholia. She had enjoyed good general health until three years before, when she lost her husband and her two children. She had always lived a temperate life. She was suffering from delusions, such as that she had no blood and no bowels, that therefore she need not eat; that she would live for ever, but that her soul was lost. Organs of respiration healthy. There was a systolic murmur over the left ventricle; the second pulmonary sound was ac- centuated, the cardiac somewhat increased; there was evidently mitral insufficiency ; appetite poor, bowels constipated, sleep quiet; the lower limbs rather cold, skin sallow, sensibility very much dulled ; irrita- tion of the skin produced no reflex movement; the sense of smell seemed almost altogether wanting, but the patient complained of a foul taste. The woman was mostly apathetic, and sat immovably still, only occa- sionally she suffered for a few days from anxiety, and then cried and complained. Pulse was 90, and somewhat fuller at this time, and she ate no food whilst the excitement lasted. After ten months' treatment she was strikingly better as regards her mental symptoms. One night soon after this she suddenly awoke from her sleep with a cry, and de- clared that she was everlastingly damned. Large doses of narcotics produced no effect. Great depression soon set in; slow pulse, which could hardly be felt; consciousness much obscured; her strength some- what increased in the next few days, but she obstinately resisted food ; the skin was altogether insensitive. Towards the end of the month her lower extremities became scorbutically coloured; a few days later pro- fuse diarrhoea set in, and soon carried her off. On dissection the skull walls were found very thick and dense, the dura mater materially distended, and with false membranes on the inner surface over the convexity of the hemispheres, with spots of blood. The inner membranes were thin, the hemispheres much wasted, with a largo quantity of subarachnoid fluid; cortical substance pale, the white sub-