ALCOHOLISM. 55 and recent researches have showed that its complete elimination from the body without chemical change was a mistaken theory. "When poi- sonous closes, however, are taken, whatever may be the exact way in which the surplus is dealt with in the organism, it is certain that there is a greater tendency to elimination of unchanged alcohol. But the mass of the superfluous alcohol circulating in the blood, and with diffi- culty undergoing assimilative changes, acts as a poison to all the tissues, and more especially to the nervous system. Of predisposing causes of alcoholism, besides the mere circumstances of temptation in which persons are placed by unusual opportunities of getting drink, Anstie mentions with emphasis the powerful influence of physical and mental misery; and also dwells on the tendency of indi- viduals belonging to certain highly neurotic families to inherit a fatal predisposition to drink. Persons who are descended, either directly from drunken parents, or even from families in which the severer ner- vous diseases are prevalent, are unquestionably more prone than others to the vice of intemperance. In his description of the symptoms of chronic alcoholism, Anstie agrees, on the whole, with Huss and Marcet, &c.; but he insists on the fact (opposed to the general idea) that cirrhotic diseases of the liver and kidneys are by no means frequently so much developed among drunkards as to endanger life of themselves. Some other cause than drink, and that a powerful one, must plainly assist in producing the fatal forms of these diseases, even in drunkards. Under acute alcoholism the author specifies four varieties:—i. Delirium Tremens. 2. Acute Mania from Drink. 3. Acute Melancholia from Drink. 4. Oino- mania. Under Delirium Tremens the chief point is the author's full acceptance of the modern doctrine, that it is not the discontinuance of alcohol, but the alcohol itself, which produces the tendency culminating in the acute attack. He therefore deprecates any use of alcohol in treatment, except in broken-down subjects : he forbids the use of opium, except in rare cases, and limits it strictly to hypodermic injection. The basis of treatment should always be constant and careful feeding of the patient with hot broth, eggs, milk and bread, and other nutritious foods, in order to maintain the strength. In most cases the malady, so treated, will run its course in a few days, and the patient will then recover the power of sleep and steadily con- valesce. It must not be considered, however, that sleep in itself is so direct a curative that the first good long nap will place the patient out of danger. On the contrary, it is even not advisable to let him sleep too long at first without food; and on waking, his pulse should be moat carefully examined to test the amount of heart-power. This can be done much better by the sphygmograph than with the finger; the arm, of course, being most carefully held steady. The indications of the sphygmograph are sometimes of priceless value, for whatever the patient's apparent condition, if his pulse exhibits a certain very soft and undulating curve, a fatal result is almost inevitable, the heart- power having become too much exhausted to recover itself. Of digitalis, Anstie remarks that the apparent results obtained in this country are quite indecisive, as the tincture was nearly always used,