EPILEPSY. 129 with clear serum, the walls unaltered. Iu the left posterior corpus quadrigeminum was a round yellow tubercle the size of half a beau, without alteration of the neighbouring medullary substance. All the rest of the brain quite normal. Tuberculosis of the bronchial and me- senteric glands and spleen. Liver enlarged and fatty. Henoch says he knows of but one other example of isolated tubercle of the corpus quadrigemiuum. It is related by Steffen. Bouchut discusses ('l'Union,' 1867) the treatment of essential paraly- sis. He relies upon irritation of the skin, thinks little of electricity, but suggests resort to electrization by aid of acupuncture to stimulate nutrition of the muscles. In this place may be cited the conclusions of the late Dr. Hillier ('Lectures on Diseases of Children,' 1868) on motor paralysis. This is caused by (1) an organic change in the muscles, as in inflammation of the muscles, and possibly in progressive muscular atrophy. (2) An organic change in the conductoi's of motor impulse, as of the nerves supplying muscles, part of the cord, or brain; either of these may be affected by inflammation, haemorrhage, or degeneration. (3) An or- ganic change in that part of the brain which is the organ of will; this and the preceding usually go together. (4) A morbid change in the blood, as in typhoid, scarlatina, rubeola, diphtheria, or anaemia. (5) By a reflex influence transmitted from afferent to efferent nerves, and thence to muscles, or from some part of the brain or cord which is the seat of irritation. (4) and (5) are often combined. This differs from cerebral paralysis in hemiplegia being rare, and in the absence of the muscular rigidity which attends cerebral paralysis. Reflex irritation generally causes movement in cerebral, but not in spinal, paralysis. Under galvanism in cerebral paralysis the muscles retain their con- tractility ; in essential paralysis of the graver kinds this is soon wholly or partially lost. -Epilepsy.—Henoch ('Beitrage z. Kinderheilk.,' 1868), discussing the treatment of epilepsy, speaks doubtfully of the use of bromide of po- tassium. He has found it very uncertain. He gives his experience of compression of the carotids as a means of stopping the fits. Quoting Bland, who recommended it in cases of hyperaemia of the brain, Dezeimeria and Trousseau, who compressed the carotid in the con- vulsions of scarlatinal dropsy on that side on which the body was most severely attacked, he says he himself has obtained very varying results. It is difficult to get to the patient before the fit is either over or sub- siding. But he has frequently used the compression during the height of the fit. Only twice has he found any success. In the remaining eases the convulsions went on uncontrolled, and in two children who had lain for hours in convulsions and sopor death followed. Of the two successful cases he relates the following one:—A boy, seven months old, hitherto healthy, with retarded cranial ossification, but without other mark of rickets, had repeated vomiting for twenty-four hours, and several green stools. Suddenly he was seized with a con- vulsive fit, lasting a quarter of an hour; the face was cyanotic; he foamed; consciousness was lost; the carotids beat violently 130 times a minute. Henoch compressed both arteries against the cricoid cartilage