411 INVERSION OF UTERUS. ing upon the fundus uteri to drive down the placenta, and drawing upon the cord, the placenta came down attached to the inverted uterus. He separated the placeuta, and immediately reduced the uterus. The uterus then contracted. The patient had slight peritonitis, from which she recovered, to die later of phthisis ('Mon. f. Greb.,' July, 1867). Dr. Inghs relates a case ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' 1867), and expounds the theory that the cause is found in the head presenting in the occipito-posterior position. The occiput rubbing round against the inner surface of the cervix produces an extremely complete and extensive dilata- tion, and in time also an increased expulsive action. C. E. Roberts ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) relates a recent case in a pluripara. It was re-inverted; recovery. Dr. Matthews Duncan describes the subject with great care. He says—Pour kinds of inversion occur after delivery. 1. Spontaneous passive uterine inversion. 2. Artificial passive. 3. Spontaneous active. 4. Artificial active inversion. The only uterine condition essential to the production of all these kinds is paralysis or inertia, or complete inaction. This is the condition of the whole organ at the time of the production of the first two kinds. In the last two kinds it is accom- panied by uterine activity, i. e. there is partial activity, partial inertia. Activity of the whole of the uterus makes inversion impossible. Activity of a part of the uterus renders introcession of that part impossible. There must, therefore, be paralysis of the whole or a part before inversion can be begun. The paralysed part that falls in is generally the placental seat. Action takes place below this in the form of an hour-glass contraction. Hour-glass contraction cannot exist unless the parts above the contraction are in a state of inertia, for were the higher parts of the uterus in even moderate action the hour-glass contraction would soon be overcome. Dr. Duncan's account of the passive forms of inversion does not differ materially from those generally known. Spontaneous active inversion occurs in the following way:—Bearing down presses the paralysed portion of the uterus into the cavity ; this is seized by the adjacent contracting segments of the uterus, is pushed down, and expelled through the uterus (' Edinb. Med. Journ., May, 1867). Dr. Tyler Smith relates (' Obst. Trans.,' x) two cases of inversion, one being observed throughout the process of occurrence. The mechanism was quite spontaneous, no dragging upon cord being used. H. S. Shaw relates (loc. cit.) a case in which reinversion took place spon- taneously. Dr. Haussmann ('Mon. f. Geb.,' j868) refers to other known cases of casting off of portions of the vesical mucous membrane, and relates the following:—A woman, set. 39, who had borne a child, was seized when three to four months pregnant with retention of urine requiring frequent use of catheter. The uterus was found retrollexed. This was relieved. The temperature and pulse normal. The urine was at times alkaline, and showed cells of epithelium falling into decomposition, and vibriones. There was at times extreme pressure to void the bladder, which the patient could not satisfy. She several times passed the catheter her*