REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 422 observation, and the propositions be bad made from the subjects (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' Dec. 1867). H. Bohn describes ('Jahrb. f. Kinderk.,' 1868) a peculiar form of congenital rickets, and discusses the pathology of rickets in children. B. "Wagner (ibid.) describes a case of congenital kyphosis and luxa- tion of the left tibia. Neevi. Prof. Santesson ('Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' 1868) contributes a memoir on the danger of injecting Liquor Ferri Perchloridi into nam and telengiectatic growths. He relates the following:—He saw a child, aged eight weeks, which had three vascular nrevi; one was unimportant; two were situated, one on the left cheek, the other on the loin. The one on the cheek had grown quickly ; its chief bulk was under the skin. Santesson used the tincture of oxyinuriate of iron of the Swedish pharmacopoeia. A syringe holding eight to ten drops of this was used. The needle-like point of the tube was first made to pierce the tumour in a vertical direction towards its centre. About half the contents of the tube was forced into the tissue, and the canula was withdrawn, and then in like manner another injection was made in a transverse di- rection. "Whilst the piston of the syringe was being slowly pushed down, it was remarked that the child, who had hitherto been crying, suddenly left off, became pale, stretched himself forcibly under the operators, soon became cyanotic, and breathed slowly and feebly. Then convulsive twitchings followed. Death occurred in a few minutes. Autopsy.—The naevus had shrunk; its spongy texture was changed into a firm substance by the coagulation of the blood. The neigh- bouring veins—the facial and its roots—were empty. The jugulars, external and internal, contained no clots in the upper part of the neck, but in the lower part, near the thoracic cavity, the blood was mostly coagulated. These clots becoming stronger and stronger downwards through the subclavian and vena cava inferior, reached into the right auricle, and even into the right ventricle of the heart, which was dis- tended with clotted blood. The left auricle contained a small clot, the left ventricle was empty. The muscular tissue of the heart was firm and contracted. The lungs were much distended with blood. Else- where there was nothing remarkable. Santesson observes that, to prevent the recurrence of such a cata- strophe, compression ought to be kept up on the veins leading from the naevus during injection. Diseases of Children. " Piediotropby, Psediopathy, and Paediatrics," is the title of a statis- tical memoir on the morbihty and mortality of infants, by J. B. Uller- sperger ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' 1867). He draws largely from the me- moir of Dr. W. Parr, in the 1 Journal of the Statistical Society,' 1866. He carefully discusses the causes of mortality, and the various modes of rearing infants, as by natural and artificial lactation and by infant foods.