THE PUERPERAL STATE. Normal temperature, never exceeding 380 C. (2) Eising of tempera- ture about the third day, with quick return to the normal, indicates— milk-flow to the breasts, cracks of the nipples, slight bruisings and in- juries of the genital canal, painful after-contractions. (3) Rising of temperature on the 4th, 5th, or 6th clay, with speedy fall to the normal— generally constipation, at times no material cause, frequently errors of diet, and psychical disturbances. (4) Eisiug on the 4th day, with longer continuance of the increase, generally over 14 days, then slow return to the normal—complications of the milder puerperal diseases, with disturbance of digestion, or slighter exudations in the neighbour- hood of the uterus. ( 5) Eising on the 2nd, 3rd, 4th day, lasting from three to four days, then quick return to the normal—diphtheritic deposit on the mucous membrane of the genitals, and slighter endometritis. (6) Eising on the 6th to the 8th day, lasting two to six days, then rapid return to the normal—breaking up and removal of thrombi from the uteriue sinuses, the general condition being almost undisturbed. (7) Early remarkable rising of temperature even in labour or the 1st or 2nd day, long continuance of the rise, without remissions—malignant diseases, ending either fatally or in tedious and exhausting convales- cence, as endometritis, peritonitis, perimetritis, phlebitis, &c. (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' Dec. 1868). Dr. Hemey made observations on 400 women as to the pulse in child- bed. In 65 women out of 400 a retardation of the labour was verified down to 60 or fewer beats. The retardation mostly set in a few hours after labour, and then remained equal for some days. The greatest retardation was on the second day. The course of the labour, if natural, had little influence. Every pathological disturbance brings quickly a rise in the frequency of the pulse. In 27 cases of saccharine urine 15 gave a remarkable rise in the pulse ; 92, 132, without other distur- bance; 12 exhibited retardation. The milk-flow during the 2nd to 5th day of childbed caused, in 280 out of 400, no remarkable alteration of the pulse ; sometimes it caused a slight interruption to the retardation, but scarcely ever when the secretion was rich and the breasts full. The retardation holds in premature as well as in mature births. After-pains had no influence. Emotions, however, and gastric disturbances soon cause acceleration; in like manner, but very transiently, changes of posture act. Eetardation, then, must be regarded as a favorable symptom. What is the cause? Erom the diminution of tension con- sequent upon the rapid suspension of the circulation of the blood in the uterus after the expulsion of the child. In 94 out of 400 cases irregularity and inequality of pulse were found. The irregularity recurred every two or three beats, was ob- served from the first to the tenth day. Milk-secretion, duration of labour, death of embryo, after-pains, had little influence ; but emotions and gastric disorders, by raising the frequency of the pulse, diminished the regularity ('Archives Gen. de Mcdecine,' 1868). Puerperal Diseases. Acute fatly der/encration in puerperal women and new-lorn cJiildren By C. Hecker.—The author was induced, by reflecting upon a case of