ABSCESS. 179 thrown into the peritoneum, but no good followed; the fluid speedily accumulated again, and the man sank. The peritoneum was found to contain a good deal of clear fluid, with shreds of lymph gluing together its walls. The liver was in the middle of the body, between the crura of the diaphragm, very small (weight ioio grms.), of a pale olive- yellow tint. When cut it appeared granular, and the connective tissue was abnormally abundant. The vessels were plugged and sur- rounded by layers of connective tissue. The whole vena porta, from its beginning, in fact, to its utmost ramifications, was found to be plugged, as was the spleen also. The venous plug was firm, yellowish, and closely adherent to the walls of the veins. In its interior the clot was at some points softened, and held a creamy liquid containing many leucocytes. The interior of the vein was rough, and irregularly thickened. In the splenic vein the clots were softer and redder. Other organs healthy. Dr. Boberts, of Manchester, gives ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 13, 1868) some very interesting details as to a case of double hydronephro- sis, ending in suppression of urine and intestinal obstruction. The patient, a gentleman, set. 30, had been delicate from childhood, and had been subject to irregularities of the bowels, which, indeed, had compelled him to give up his occupation. There would be constipation for three or four days, after which there would be a free evacuation. Latterly these fits of constipation had become more frequent and more severe. When seen he was in one of them. The abdomen was distended and painful, and there was frequent vomiting. The urine was scanty. The bowels had not moved for five days, and had resisted all purgative medicines. The urine was dark red and bloody, sp. gr. 1008. The blood was in small granular masses, the size of a pin's head ; there were no casts, but a good many epithelial cells. On examining the liver a distinct bulging could be perceived in both lumbar regions, these being elastic and slightly fluctuat- ing. Double hydronephrosis pressing on the gut was suspected; but the difficulty was that after these repeated attacks there was no excessive flow of urine, such as is generally seen in these cases. Next day, the seventh of constipation, the bowels still remained unopened; only a very little urine was passed, but this was without blood. After twenty- four hours' suppression, on the 9th day a copious discharge of urine took place, amounting, in fact, to more than a gallon. It was only unnatu- ral as to sp. gr., which was 1005 —1007. The bowels were still un- relieved. The tenth day fully a gallon of urine was voided ; and about midnight the bowels were opened, and an immense quantity of semi- liquid faces had been passed. Next day the urine was suppressed, and the bulgings behind continued. The tongue was dry and the patient prostrate. On the twelfth day he died from uramiie poisoning, having passed no water for sixty hours. When the abdomen was opened two soft, lobulated, fluctuating tumours, representing the kidneys, were found in the lumbar region. The left one was ten inches long by seven broad, the right about a quarter lesB. To the bulging inner side of the left kidney the descending colon was firmly united by a broad attachment for about three inches. Here the intestinal obstruction lay, and hero the mucous membrane was dark red, but not congested. On the left side the renal artery was normal; but the ureter, at its commencement, was