DYSTOCIA. 897 In 500 inaturo boys ho found a mean weight of 3330 grammes = 6-1 lb., and in 500 mature girls a mean of 3220 grammes = 6\ lb. He found a mean length in both sexes, from head to breech, of 35 centimetres; from head to heels, of 50 centimetres. The following are the head-measurements :—1st. The anterior trans- verse diameter, i. e. at the lower ends of the coronal suture = 8 centi- metres = 3 inches. 2nd. The posterior transverse diameter, i. e. be- tween the tubera parietalia = 9 centimetres = 3^ inches. 3rd. The straight diameter, from the glabellas to the hindermost point of the occiput = 11*5 centimetres = 4^ inches. 4th. The long oblique dia- meter, from chin to the furthest point of the occiput = 13'$ = 5 inches. 5th. The short oblique diameter, from the foremost point of the neck to the furthest poiut of the forehead = 9*3 centimetres = 3-J inches. In 200 cases of mature birth he weighed the after-births. He ob- tained for the whole after-births a minimum of 350, a maximum of 870, a mean of 585 grammes. For the length of the cord a minimum of 35, a maximum of 102, a mean of 56 centimetres (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' Dec. 1867). Dystocia from the Mother. Cases of occlusion of the os uteri during pregnancy. By E, Williams ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1867) ; by Wachs ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1*867). Mr. De la Garde ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) describes a case of labour with occluded vagina; it had resulted from a severe instru- mental labour eight years before. The vagina was opened up by incisions; recovery. Dr. J. Stephens relates ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) a case of labour with double vagina and uterus. The septum lacerated during labour; recovery. Cases of tumours complicating pregnancy and labour are related by E. G. Clarke ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) ; C. Gr. Wheelhouse (ibid.). Dr. Spiegelberg relates a case of ovarian tumour complicating preg- nancy. A woman, set. 36, pluripara, was delivered prematurely of twins. Soon after, almost sudden sopor and delirium set in. Albumen was found in the urine. Diarrhoea followed. A tumour the size of the fist was felt in the right side. The abdomen became painful and meteoric. Rigor appeared; the pulse and temperature rose. Exhaus- tion and death on the third day. A large quantity of green, turbid, bad-smelling fluid, mixed with yellow exudation fluids, was found in the abdominal cavity. A tumour covered with blood and layers of fibrin lay in the iliac fossa; it was connected with the broad ligament by a pedicle ; no trace of a normal ovary was found. Dr. Spiegelberg is of opinion that the stimulus to growth of the ovarian tumours induced by pregnancy caused thrombosis in its structure, with apoplectic and necrobiotic foci, the rupture of which occasioned the fatal peritonitis. Dr. Bryce ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1867) describes a case in which a very large renal cyst complicated pregnancy, suggesting extra-uterine gestation. Inflammation supervened, and death took place shortly after the birth of a uterine foetus.