BSPOBT ON MIDWIMEYj ETC. Shortly before the death of the foetus a discharge of blood took place from the genitals, and lasted ten weeks, during two of which it was accompanied with dark coagula, but no membranous shreds. After four weeks the burning sensation was lost. She was now unable to exert herself. The circumfereuce of the abdomen diminished after the death of the child. Menstruation did not return. The position of the foetus was made out by external manipulation. At a later period menstruation returned. In October, 1866, the patient had been obliged to keep her bed on accouut of severe abdominal pain, and menstruation ceased again. In January, 1867, she suffered from frequent mucous diarrhoea, through whieh she became much emaciated. The encysted foetus was felt as a hard knobby mass, the size of a four- year-old child's head, in the left side of the abdomen, quite immovable. On internal examination the entire brim of the pelvis was found tilled with a fixed hard mass. The os uteri was pushed over towards the right pubic bone; much pain was caused in examination from rectum. She sank on the ist February, 1867. Autopsy.—The cyst was found adherent by numerous points to the omentum. The bladder bounded it aud was adherent to it in front. The uterus was not greatly enlarged. The mucous membrane looked normal. The left Fallopian tube ran across the wall of the sac. The left ovary could not be discovered. The right tube was found free. The right ovary was also distinct. In the sac was found the remains of the foetus, mace- rated. The placenta could not be made out. The inner wall of the sac was covered with a smooth serous membrane. At the point of con- nection with the rectum there was a fistulous opening (' Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' Feb. 1868). Dr. A. Halley (' Obst. Trans.,' ix) relates a case in which the greater portion of a dead foetus was retained in utero for four years. The bones were removed by dilating the cervix. The patient recovered. H. Ewen (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1868) relates a case in which an extra- uterine foetus was retained, uterine pregnancy and labour subsequently taking place. Recovery. Dr. Pletzer's case:—M—, set. 40, had had two children. July 31, 1865, she was seized with sickness aud abdominal pains during a san- guineous discharge. Symptoms increased to collapse and peritonitis. These disappeared. Some weeks later the same phenomena were re- peated, aud subsided. A swelling in the pelvis began to increase, grow- ing more to the left side, and some weeks later the parts of a toetus could be made out. At the normal end of gestation paius set in, end- ing with slight loss of blood and the discharge of a completely formed decidua. Six months later sickness, constipation, abdominal pains, collapse, set in, and death in forty-eight hours. Dissection.—A large quantity of bloody serum in abdomen, and fresh plastic layers. An embryo of six or seven months' development had passed into the ab- domen from a rupture in the left tube, and had grown to the perito- neum and intestines. The foetus had partially fallen into a state of lithopaedion ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' April, 1867). M. Bailly describes a pregnancy in bifid uterus; labour; haemor- rhage; death. The patient died in the service of M. Depaul, at the