ABSCESS. 177 upwards behind the diaphragm into the pleura, giving rise to exceed- ingly severe symptoms in at least one instance. In one instance the breath was very fetid. The pulse varied, and there were many chills and night-sweats. The treatment was tonic, but the first thing to do good was the making of incisions, after which all the patients did well. The openings were very tree, and in the case of one patient gave rise to severe and dangerous haemorrhage. Dr.Bowditch seems to think smaller open- ings, as by a trocar and the employment of suction, would have been of benefit. The anatomical relations of the psoas muscles have an important bearing on such cases. Mr. Spencer Wells contributes to the ' Dublin Quart. Journ.,' Feb. 1867, a valuable paper on the diagnosis of renal and ovarian tumours. The first case given was that of a child 4 years old, supposed to be the subject of ovarian disease. In this case the difficulty was not great; the tumour had grown very fast; it occupied the right side, and pushed the intestines downwards ; it was elastic, but not fluctuating; besides, ovarian disease is rare in children of that age, encephaloid common. After death the kidney was found enlarged, but of the normal shape ; its ureter was occluded; and as the other kidney was healthy, this accounted for the urine being normal. The second case was one of pyonephrosis of the right kidney, with two calculi impacted in the ureter. The patient was aged 50, had borne 5 children, the youngest being 17 years old. Since that labour, which was very protracted, she had been liable to pains in the back and right loin, coming on suddenly, with shivering, and thick turbid urine. After a time these attacks became more frequent; again they remitted, and again they recurred. She had passed several small stones. She fell one day whilst walking, and went home in great pain. During the next six days she passed a good deal of blood, and noticed the tumour, which was situated in the right loin. This, presenting fluctuation, was tapped, and a quantity of pus withdrawn. Pus now appeared in the urine ; but the tumour again increased in size, and was again opened, and kept so; after a time the fluid passed was clear and contained urea, and the urine became clear. Ultimately the patient, after passing two uric-acid calculi, each the size of a broad-bean, completely recovered. The third case given was one of cystic degeneration of the left kidney, occurring in a married woman, set. 43. The swelling was first noticed in 1854, and gradually in- creased, with occasional aching pains, the patient's health suffering a good deal till August, 1866, when, as the tumour impeded the breathing, it was tapped, and two gallons of dark-coloured fluid, the consistence of pea-soup, were removed. She remained well; but the cyst refilled, and on the 17th Dec. it occupied a great portion of the abdominal cavity. In front of it was a cord-like ridge, supposed to be either the intestine or a long and thick Fallopian tube. An operation was attempted, when the ridge was found to consist of the transverse and descending colon. A good deal of fluid was removed, but the attachments were too firm to admit of separation, and the wound had to be closed. Suppression of urine followed, and the patient died in thirty hours. A fter death clots and bloody serum were found in the peritoneal cavity. The right kidney was enlarged, friable, and pale ; the calicos 12