OBSTETRIC OPERATIONS. •105 The Caesarian Section. In an elaborate work on the Cesarian section, Dr. Testa discusses the history, statistics, and other points ; and especially investigates tho following:—In some cases the wound in the uterus is found after death gaping, in others closed. Testa set himself to discover upon what this difference depended. He minutely examined the muscular structure of the uterus. He found that when the incision is so made as to fall in the line of direction of the fibres, the lips of the wound will be maintained in apposition ; but that when the wound cuts across all the Livers of muscles, gaping must follow. The gaping will be the greater the longer the fibres are which are divided, and will increase with the uterine contractions; and since the external muscular fasciculi are longer than the internal, it is clear that the retraction of the first will predominate, and cause the divergence of the margins of the wound. Thus, he observes, that when the incision fell upon the fundus, cutting the transverse and oblique fibres proceeding from the Fallopian tubes, the wound gaped, owing to the retraction of these fibres towards their points of origin. And when the incision was made transversely from one of the sides, so as to spare the longitudinal fibres of the tubes, the edge of the wound would be drawn together. In the lower third of the uterus wounds made in the direction of the long axis would present the margins in contact, the longitudinal fibres being spared ; but since the neck becomes distended and relaxed during the latter months of pregnancy, it follows that the borders of the wound are kept apart by the divided and stronger transverse fibres. The gaping would be greater if the incision were oblique, so as to divide all the orders of fibres. It is true that the anatomical structure of the middle third is the same as that of the lower third, but at this point, the longitudinal fibres not having suffered distension, and preserving their tonicity, are fit to maintain in contact the margins of wounds made according to their direction. The application of these researches follows: (1) Incisions in the uterus made in the axis of the body, in the upper third, remaining open, give rise to escape of lochia into the abdominal cavity, setting up peritonitis. (2) This may be avoided by making the incision transverse and lateral, but this is to be avoided on account of the risk of dividing large vessels. (3) Oblique and longitudinal incisions in the lower third equally dispose to effusions and peritonitis. (4) Testa recommends to make the incision transversely and on one side, a little above or below the insertion of the tubes, so as to avoid an order of fibres (the longitudinal of a tube before they become oblique), and thus avoiding all obstacle to the approach and union of the lips of the wound. He relates that Dr. Cocchi, of Eome, having followed this advice, saved mother and child. Dr. Testa then examines the various modes of applying sutures to the incised uterus. He objects to most of those proposed, and suggests one of his own. It consists in inserting two long needles at the level of the upper angle of the incision at a distance of four lines from it, from