LITHOTIUTY AND LITHOTOMY. 311 body of a man, set, 8.3, who had died of phlebitis in the H6pital Neckar, after long suffering from stone. He had never been the sub- ject of any operation, but had passed spontaneously as many as fifty small pieces of calculus. The fragments were unequal in size, but about as large as peas on an average, composed mainly of segments, more or less irregular, of the lamina of a calculus. The notable thick- ness of these lamina? proved that it was not a simple shelling off or exfoliation, but really a breaking up of the mass. The condition of the man's health did not allow of any surgical interference in the hospital, so that he never had undergone any operative procedure. After death the bladder was found to contain three entire stones and three frag- ments of stone. Two of these fragments appeared to be parts of one of the stones: the third appeared to be a portion of one of the other stones, judging from losses of substance which they presented. Judging by their external appearance, they seemed to be phosphatic calculi. There was a very large cyst communicating with the bladder, which, however, did not contain any stone (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 343). Results of operation on 100 cases of stone in the adult.—In the ' Lancet,' Oct. 26 and Nov. 9, 1867, Sir H. Thompson gives the result of the last 100 cases of stone which he has operated on in adults. The majority were old men ; and in many cases the patients were very bad subjects, exhausted by long previous suffering, and coming from remote parts of the world. Sir H. Thompson gives the following summary of the series: " Of the 100 cases, 84, or about four fifths of the total number, were operated on by lithotrity, and 16 by lithotomy. The mean age of the 84 lithotrity cases was 62^ years; among them were no less than 11 cases of 70 years and upwards, 2 being upwards of 80 years of age. Among these 86 cases there were only 4 fatal cases. The lithotomy cases, 16 in number, had a mean age of 63! years. The youngest was 42 and the oldest 80 years. Six were above 70 years of age, including 1 each of 77, 78, and 80 years. Six cases were fatal. Of the entire 100 cases of operation upon unselected patients, having a mean age of 62§ years, and submitted to either lithotrity or lithotomy, there were 90 recoveries and 10 deaths." These results he uses to establish the four following propositions : '' " The first proposition is—That lithotrity is the most successful opera- tion for at least four fifths of all the cases of stone in the adult which come under the surgeon's notice at the present time—a statement which i3 more definitely expressed in the fact that the rate of mortality for such cases in this series is barely 5 per cent. " The second proposition is—That these successful results from lithotrity can only be obtained by performing the operation in accord- ance with certain rules which can be laid down. " The third proposition is—That cases of calculus in which one of the two operations, lithotrity or lithotomy, ought not to be employed are exceedingly rare. " The fourth proposition is—That by exercising an ordinary degree of vigilance for adult patients suffering from symptoms of urinary dis-