354 REPORT OX OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. In order to make the flap easily and with safety, it is necessary that, after puncture and counter-puncture, the simple advancement of the lenife should give the desired section. It is therefore necessary that the blade should increase regularly from point to base, to avoid any loss of aqueous ; that the back should be thin, but blunt, in a straight line ; and that the point should be two-edged. These conditions were clearly stated by Eichter in 1773. He fixed the maximum of width at ,3_ lines, or half the corneal diameter. His knife is figured with a cut- ting edge slightly convex, but this is not mentioned in the description. Zehender* has supplied the deficiency, and has described the best pos- sible knife, except that its dimensions are fixed arbitrarily. The width of the knife should depend upon the height of the flap, estimated from the exterior when the section is made at one coup, and from the interior when a bridge of tissue is left at the summit for division during the withdrawal of the blade. This method is considered by Steffan to be the safest; and he therefore recommends a width of blade of from \\ to 2 lines for cataracts of the same thickness. With this he obtains a section of proper size interiorly, and divides the central bridge in draw- ing back the knife, with its edge directed somewhat forward. The aqueous humour is thus permitted to escape gradually, and the section is completely under a minimum of intra-ocular pressure. Either Zehen- der's knife may be used, with its width diminished to if or 2 lines, or von Graefe's, increased to the same dimensions. "With regard to the conjunctival flap, Steffan thinks that it occasions haemorrhage, and that it is of no value in preventing suppuration. That the performance of iridectomy should be the rule will be mani- fest if we consider the distension of the pupil required for the passage of the nucleus. Atropine cannot prevent bruising, because the pupil always contracts as the aqueous humour escapes. Moreover, the sphincter causes the iris to retain portions of cortex, and also to conceal them. All these inconveniences are avoided by an iridectomy made prior to the exit of the lens, and either as part of the extraction or six weeks earlier. Steffan sees no objection to combining the two procedures, and thus avoiding the risk of any want of correspondence between the size of the artificial pupil and that of the cataract. He sees no danger in the passage of the lens over the freshly cut surfaces of the iris. With regard to pathological deposits in the capsule after extraction, Steffan dissents entirely from von Graefe's view that they depend upon a proliferation of intra-capsular cells. He refers them entirely to irri- tation of the iris, saying that no iridectomy will permit the passage of the nucleus wholly without bruising; and that hence arises an exuda- tion which, together with the remains of cortex and fragments of coagula, suffices to explain the presence of the fine membranes that form secondary cataract. He objects to the systematic removal of the cap- sule, notwithstanding the experience of Wecker and of Pagenstecher, and thinks that the excellent vision obtained in successful cases does not justify the surgeon in incurring the risks of the method. If it be important to get rid of capsule, he prefers to open the posterior capsule, after the manner of von Hasner, after the exit of the lens. * ' Ophthalmic Review,' April, 1864.