287 LIGATUHE OP ARTERIES IN INFLAMMATION. among clots and fibrinous masses and condensed infiltrated tissues, every one who has tried it knows full well, is sometimes the only route to the open mouth of the bleeding vessel in such cases. This greatly exhausts the strength of the patient, and lessens—indeed destroys—his chance of life. Under such circumstances the Hunterian operation would be preferable, especially in a wound of the lower extremity. In the first place, it arrests the haemorrhage for the time being, at least, and affords a chance of even permanent arrest; and secondly, by cutting off the main stream from the support of the inflammation and general turgescence, the condition of the limb may be so improved that, in case the recurrent haemorrhage should take place, a less embarrassing state of things will attend this more desirable operation. The adoption of the one operation gives a chance for life ; we think we have seen the adoption of the other, under just such circumstances, take it away." ('Manual Military Surgery,' p. 106.) " In addition to the above abstract from the text of the chapter referred to, we introduce here the following, found in pages 104-5, as containing pertinent and direct records of our opinion, as well as facts relating to the subject:" Note.—" As the subject has only a relative bearing on the main ob- ject of the present paper (haemorrhage), attention is called, only in a note, to the above practice of ligation to subdue or control inflammatory action. "We believe that the cases of Privates 0. A. Eeid and Drury B. Early, ligation in one, June 5, in the other, June 11, 1862, are the first cases on record in which this measure was adopted with reference to the proposed result. In all of the six cases the Hunterian operation was chosen with the distinct end in view of combating and checking, if possible, the destructive progress and, in some, the septic tendency of the inflammation. In all of these, the pain the swelling and turges- cence, were almost immediately relieved, and the most remarkable change was soon presented, as seen in the character of the discharges. " Surgeon A. C. Thorn, of the Confederate States Army, has kindly furnished us notes of a case in which he subsequently adopted the Hunterian ligation of the femoral, and in which the beneficial results were exhibited in the most marked degree—' the inflammation relieved, as by magic' " The application of the ligature in cases of elephantiasis, and for malignant diseases of the face, does not, it appears to us, interfere with any originality which the principles here practised may possess. The present operations, besides being applied with an entirely different object, fully answered the proposed end, while the others did not. We feel confident that this practice will become one of frequent application in the treatment of otherwise unmanageable inflammation, under a variety of circumstances authorising its adoption." The pamphlet then proceeds to give in extenso the notes of four cases of ligature of the femoral artery, adopted with a view of controlling hemorrhage, and at the same time of checking inflammation. That Dr. Campbell, however, had been led by his experience of ligature in ha> 1 morrhage to regard it as a curative measure in inflammation for other causes, the following concluding sentences of his paper clearly show: