REPOBT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 43-1 ration appears to be caused by acute swelling of the ligumenta ary- epiglottidea and of the epiglottis, which may be rapidly developed from cold, just like the swelling of the nasal membrane. Henoch (loc. cit.) confirms the observation of Virchow that the cliccsy change of the bronchial glands met with in children is not always of tubercular nature. He says all the bronchial catarrhs which run a lingering course, whether primary or secondary, often entail a hyper- plasia or swelling of the bronchial glands. In the course of a year a part of these cellular swellings either undergo a cheesy change or become calcified, conditions verified if the patients die of other diseases. The cases, therefore, of extensive caseous change of the bronchial glands in children, where the other organs are free, can only be regarded as the sequela? of protracted or repeated catarrhs, and have nothing to do with tuberculosis. Dr. Henoch's memoir on pleurisy is based on 54 cases. The inflam- mation affected in 27 cases the right and in 27 the left pleura. He never saw double pleurisy. Thirty-four recovered; in 15 the result was not known; in 5 death followed; in 3 there was previous tuberculosis; in 1 pericarditis complicated; in 1 convulsions set in. The prominent symptom of piercing pain in the side on breathing and coughing was seldom observed in little children. That pain existed there is no doubt, but the mode of expressing it is overlooked. Thus, Henoch says, the " fault of the so-called latency of pleurisy lies, in many cases, not so much with the disease as with the physician." Even in acute pleurisy the first development of the disease may be misinter- preted. It may be marked by cerebral symptoms. Out of the 54 cases Henoch saw epileptiform fits set in with the beginning of the pleurisy. Cough was altogether wanting in one case, and was slight in others. When it was troublesome he always found a complicating bronchial catarrh. The frequency of respiration was governed by the quantity of the exudation and the condition of the bronchi. In recent cases bronchial respiration was almost always recognised, less frequently throughout the entire range of the dulness, more frequently here and there with undecided respiration or with complete absence of respira- tory rush in the most dull places. In chronic cases, with great effusion, all respiratory rush was frequently lost, but even here sometimes Henoch could detect a characteristic bronchial respiration. Careful dissection showed that the bronchial respiration was quite independent of pneumonia, and that it was simply due to lung compression by the fluid. Friction sound was repeatedly observed, but mostly at the stage of resorption. He thinks, however, its importance is exaggerated, and that fine mucous rale is often mistaken for it. Dislocation of the liver was observed five times in right-sided pleurisy. Vomiting repeatedly occurred in the first days of the disease. Fever was ushered in by rigor only in older children. Jaundice occurred in two cases; in one the pleurisy was right-sided, in the other left-sided. In both the jaun- dice was of the catarrhal character, with colourless stools and swelling of the liver, and ended without ill consequence. In two children a so- called empyema necessitatis was formed. In one the exudation filled the left pleura; a protracted hectic ensued, and emaciation proceeded