171 KIDNEY DISEASES. changed. Of the symptoms of diabetes, the first and most important is the large amount of grape sugar which appears in the urine and other secretions. The quantity of sugar secreted in a day varies, but some- times amounts to as much as a pound or more. The manner in which the patient lives has much influence on this secretion, since an increase in the quantity of fluid which is taken and the indulgence in starchy food augments its amount. There are two forms of diabetes to be distinguished, and the distinc- tion of the one from the other is of great importance in practice. Ex- perience shows us that the anomalies of nutrition, which are manifestly the source of the disease, may be very different. In the first or lighter form of diabetes the secretion of sugar is present only so long as amy- laceous food is supplied to the body. If only carnivorous or non- amylaceous food be eaten, the secretion of sugar, as well as most of the other symptoms of glycosuria, ceases. In the second and more serious form of the disease the glycosuria continues, although the food is of a non-amylaceous character. In many cases the diabetes is of the first form, and if the use of starchy food be dispensed with, not only does the secretion of sugar cease, but the quantity of urine passed is also diminished, the tormenting thirst and insatiable appetite abate, and the emaciation becomes less. In the second and more serious form this is not so; the symptoms either continue the same or there is only slight alteration. As a matter of course, there are various intermediate grades, and sometimes the light form is only the incipient form of the other and more dangerous one. Besides the sugar which is found in diabetic urine, there is also an increase of the urea, uric acid, and salts, all of which contribute to its increased specific gravity, which may amount to 1042 or more. If the urine stands for any length of time spores of torulse are found in it. The urine is clear, of a pale yellow colour, and is often evacuated in large quantities (5 to p quarts daily). The patients do not urinate so much because they drink a great deal, they rather drink because they have evacuated so much fluid from the body. The cause of the enor- mous secretion of urine must, for the present, be sought in the diuretic influence of the sugar. Inasmuch as so much water passes through the kidneys in diabetes, the secretions of the other secreting organs are necessarily limited, hence the skin of such patients is generally dry and harsh. The tests for sugar in the urine are thus given by Oppolzer: (a) Moore's Test.—A small quantity of the solution of potass is added to the urine to be tested, and then the urine is to be boiled. The upper part of the fluid becomes brown if sugar is present, or an excess of caustic potass is added to the urine, and then the whole is to be boiled. It'sugar is present a red colour will appear. Keller advises that after boiling a little nitric acid should be added. If sugar is present the odour of caramel or molasses is detected. (b) Pettenkofer's Test depends upon the action of gallic acid'and sulphuric acid upon a solution of sugar. It gives to the urine, under ?uch circumstances, a dark violet colour. On the other hand, the pr^ence of gallic acid may be proved by the addition of a solution of