201 TREATMENT Oi' ANEUllISM BY COLD. In order to obtain all the benefit of this method of treatment, lie prescribes that the compression should be made by means ol a soft elastic body, embracing as far as possible all the free surface of the tumour, and compressing it continuously but moderately, and only to such an extent as is necessary to reduce it to a quiescent condition, by suppressing the movement of expansion, which causes the disruption and progressive dilatation of the parietes of the tumour, and thus favouring the organic contractility of those parietes by means of which the tumour is gradually reduced in size and disappears. In illustration of the application of this treatment he gives two cases, one under the care of Brunker in 1839, and related in the ' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Keview,' Jan. 1840. In this case a popliteal aneurism ceased to pulsate after compression for five days with a sponge bandaged on to the tumour. No other treatment was used, the patient being in bed on low diet. The sponge was kept on the tumour as a precaution for about a month longer. Cure was complete. The other case was under his own care. It referred to a case of traumatic aneurism of the carotid artery, which had been treated without success for three weeks by digital compression of the vessel below the tumour. Treatment was commenced by bandaging a large piece of soft sponge on to the tumour, tightly enough to suspend the pulsation of the tumour, though not to diminish its size. The bandage was so arranged as not to press on the opposite artery, and the pressure was intermitted for a few hours at night. The sponge was wetted once a day to give it the requisite elasticity. He was allowed to be out of bed, with good diet and wine. In twelve days there was a sensible im- provement, so the proposal to tie the carotid was negatived. After ninety-seven days of compression the tumour was indurated, and had lost all pulsation of its own, though the carotid remained pervious and imparted its pulsation to the tumour. The patient was now attacked with confluent smallpox, and was in great danger of his life. On his recovery the aneurism was found to be perfectly cured, and the perma- nence of the cure was ascertained by seeing the man about a year afterwards. Cold in the treatment of aneurism.—In the ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Feb. 29, 1868, Mr. Harrison, Assistant-Surgeon to the Boyal Artillery, relates a case of popliteal aneui'ism, in which he experienced much aid to the action of pressure upon the femoral artery from the local use of cold, applied by means of the ether spray to the tumour. The pressure was instrumental. On the first occasion the pressure of the instrument wan too severe, and after an hour and a quarter it was replaced by digital pressure, which was kept up for about a day and a half. The ether was used for twenty minutes during this period, and after its use it was thought that the tumour was solidified, but it gradually recurred to its former condition. A better compressor was procured and applied at 3 p.m. on Jan. 29, compressing the artery just above Poupart's ligament, and alternated carefully with the stiff instrument before in use, and the ether spray sufficient to freeze the surface of the tumour every half hour. There was not the slightest pulsation on removing