481 HEPORT ON MATERIA. MEDIC A; ETC. tlie pulse is more frequent and firmer, and the secretions are more active. The central nervous system, brain, spinal cord, and nerves, are stimulated. The muscular system of the life of relation and that of organic life contract violently. The muscles of the former system are affected with trembling or with general contraction. The fibres of the stomach, of the intestines, and of the bladder, also contract. At a later period, after absorption of caffein, the action of the heart is les- sened, the frequency and firmness of the pulse diminished ; the mus- cular system becomes exhausted, but is not paralysed. The nervous system also suffers exhaustion. Caffein does not entirely extinguish reflex action, nor the function of the nerves and muscles. It acts as a poison on different animals in different doses; it may be given to man in the dose of many grammes without injury. It is readily eliminated from the system, and remains in it only a few hours. Leven further states that caffein, like alcohol, diminishes the secretion of urea, but increases the excretion of urine. It diminishes the waste of the organs, and economises the tissues. Thein.—Dr. Leven has also compared the effects of thein from tea with those of caffein from coffee.* Chemical analysis reveals no difference between these crystallizable nitrogenous principles. On experimenting upon frogs and guinea-pigs Dr. Leven came to the following conclu- sions:—(i) Thein and caffein, though considered to be one and the same alkaloid by chemists, seem to produce different toxic effects on animals submitted to their action. (2) Thein is a less active poison than caffein, and it is only when given in double doses that the former produces the toxic effects of the latter. (3) Thein also produces convulsive move- ments of the limbs, an effect not observed with caffein. (4) In other respects their physiological effects are identical. Both alkaloids seem to directly excite the heart and respiratory movements, and to increase arterial tension. By exciting the circulation they stimulate the central nervous system, the brain, and spinal cord; but they do not arrest the functions of the spinal cord and nerves. The tetanic convulsions re- sulting from their action is caused by stimulation of the spinal cord. They do not abolish the functions of muscles, and the heart does not cease to beat immediately after death. Opium Alkaloids.—The ' Medical Times and Gazette 'f furnishes an interesting account of the discussion raised by Dr. Baxt, of St. Peters- burg, at the Annual Congress of German Naturalists at Frankfort, in 1867. Baxt thinks that thebaine is a poison analogous to strychnine, whilst papaverine possesses pure hypnotic properties. Kohler doubts the analogy between the effects of thebaine and strychnine, and states that all the opium alkaloids cause tetanus when administered to the lower animals. * ' Arch, de Phys. Norm, et Path./ May, June, 1868. f Vol. ii, 1867, p. 683.