289 DIGITAL COMPRESSION IN ANEUIUSM. Immediate and continuous benefit, and the patient recovered. I need scarcely say that at that time I believed the suggestion to be original, and have only now been undeceived by the perusal of a short paper upon the subject in the ' American Journal of Medical Sciences' of April, 186S. It there appears that the femoral artery was ligatured, first, for wound of the knee-joint by H. U. Onderdonk, M.D., in the year 1813, and occasionally since that date also in America." Digital compression of the femoral artery in elephantiasis.—In the ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 592, Signor Vanzetti relates a case in which he employed digital compression of the femoral artery with complete success, for " elephantiasis " to a slight degree, the result of frequent attacks of erysipelas of the leg. In order not to confound the effects of compression with those of simple rest and bandaging, the patient was confined previously to bed for three weeks, and the limb carefully bandaged. As this produced no change, digital compression of the artery was carried on during the day for a few days with great im- provement, and finally, after some irregularities, occasioned by his condition of health, a complete cure was effected by a combination of intermittent digital pressure and starch bandage. The skin became rather more delicate than that of the other leg, and the elephantiasis had completely disappeared when the patient was seen three years after- wards. Digital compression in aneurism.—In the 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1867, p. 505, will be found the account of a communication made by Sig. Vanzetti to the Soc. de Chir. This communication contains a detailed account of the following cases:—(1) A traumatic aneurism of the su- perficial palmar arch, from a wound received six weeks previously. The patient, a man, set. 44; the wound had been treated by compression, and was cicatrized five days afterwards, and a week after this the man returned to his work in the fields. Soon the aneurism showed itself, and as it began to increase rapidly, and became painful, he reapplied the compression with considerable force. This, however, caused ecchy- mosis of the skin; he became alarmed, and came to the hospital at Treviso. The tumour then presented all the classic signs of aneurism. Dr. Vecelli, under whose care he was, set himself to compress the bra- chial. He did this, not very rigorously, for half an hour, and at the end of that time found the tumour had lost its pulsation and bruit, and was already solid. As a precaution, the pressure was continued for a quarter of an hour more. Then the arm was put in a scarf, and the patient ordered not to move it. He left the hospital in a week, and was seen quite well a month afterwards. (2) A spontaneous aneurism of the femoral artery just above its passage through the adductor magnus, cured by complete and continuous digital compression for ten hours ou :the femoral in the groin. (3) An arterio-venous aneurism of the bend of the elbow, the result of a bleeding ten days before. All the symp- toms well marked. Cure was effected, though after a considerable time (sixty days), by indirect compression of the brachial artery, with direct compression on the basilic vein. The compression was digital at 19