69 THE USE OF ALCOHOL IN ACUTE DISEASES. Measles. The incubation period of measles, according to Besnier, is very variable. He quotes Guersant and Blache as putting it from 2 to 7 or 8 days. They report, however, two cases observed by Boursieri, with an incubation period of 15 and 25 days respectively. Eilliet and Barthez give from 10 to 15 days, and in extreme cases from 6 to 21 days. Hecquet, from his experience of an epidemic in Abbeville, gives 3 to 18 days. Niemeyer from 12 to 14 days. Panum and Empis, 14 days (< G-az. des Hop.,' lix, 1868). Fatty Changes in Pyrexial Diseases. Dr. Concatto discusses this subject. He alludes to the difference between infiltration with fat and fatty degeneration, and compares thein to the respective physiological processes observed in acute and chronic degenerations occurring in a healthy subject. The acute fatty changes of health may be illustrated by the formation of colostrum and the dis- appearance of the contractile fibres of the uterus after labour; the chronic form, by involution of the thymus gland of the breasts, and of the uterus in later life. In like manner fatty degenerations of disease run sometimes a short course, as in acute atrophy of the liver, and sometimes a long one, as in fatty degeneration of the blood-vessels. The author records two cases in which limited acute fatty degeneration was observed apparently as the result of a previous febrile affection. A man, set. 72, in whom for two months a hard cancerous tumour of the glands of the neck had existed, and a peritoneal cancerous tumour of the size of a child's head, which softened and almost entirely disap- peared after the outbreak of pneumonia. Death occurred on the tenth day, and at the site of the tumour in the neck there was found a softened spot with a quantity of fatty debris. The tumour in the belly was also in a less advanced stage of fatty degeneration. In the second case a high degree of fatty change of the heart was found in a hypochondriacal patient, who died with symptoms of paralysis of heart, a few days after he had been attacked with a severe fever, in consequence of a wound in the neck. The treatment in such cases must be stimulating, and should always (where the fever is high and long continued, or where there is a predisposition to fatty changes) include the use of remedies which can increase nervous power without making the heart's action more rapid. The author believes that an infusion of arnica with Hoff- mann's liquor, or Haller's elixir, have produced very good results in many cases ('Biv. Clin.,' vi, 4, p. 97, 1867). The use of Alcohol in Acute Diseases. Dr. Gairdncr, of Glasgow, read a paper before the British Medical Association, the object of which was to prove the following points : 1. Nourishment, not stimulation, should be the rule in acute dis- eases, milk being the principal nutriment. Beef-tea is not so effective for the purpose, and in typhoid fever it sometimes causes diarrhoea.