417 Pl'RUPKRAL FEVER. ami convulsions. Delivery was accelerated by forceps. TIio child was dead, macerated. The patient was bled, bad ico to head, glyster, mor- phine injections, chloroform, cold douche to head. After 32 fits, being in the highest degree exhausted, in deep sopor, transfusion was resorted to. Blood defibrinated was used; seven ounces were injected. The pulse rose, breathing became freer, cyanosis disappeared ; sleep followed. She recovered ('Prager Yrtljhrsch.,' 1868). Dr. Cappie relates three cases of convulsions occurring near the natural term of gestation. He practised early delivery, dilating the cervix uteri with the finger, and applying the forceps before the dilatation was complete. He urges that this mode of delivering the patient as quickly as possible is the proper treatment to adopt. He found little or no service from bleeding or chloroform, and says the fits were not excited or increased in severity by the operative proceedings ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1868). This is certainly contrary to the experience of others. Puerperal Fever. V case of puerperal fever, or puerperal pyaemia, after an abortion, is related by Dr. Snow Beck (' Obst. Trans.,' ix) to show that puerperal fever is the result of a previous condition of the uterine veins and sinuses, from incomplete contraction and the entrance of purulent fluids into the system. Dr. Barnes (loc. cit.) exhibited the uterus of a woman who had died of puerperal fever; the uterus walls were thick and fairly contracted ; there was no pus or putrilage in the sinuses. In a discussion (loc. cit.) Dr. Playfair referred to the history of the lying-in ward of King's College Hospital; erysipelas prevailing in the general wards, the lying-in women had puerperal fever, and, although no doubt existed that this fever arose from the infected general wards, the disease in the women did not exhibit the character of erysipelas. Dr. Braxton Hicks, Tyler Smith, and Hall Davis, advocated the same opinions as Dr. Barnes. The Professor and Director of the Maternity at Ferrara, in an in- teresting report of that institution, relates some cases of miliary fever which appeared to present an epidemic character. They occurred in the winter and spring of 1865-6. In the course of this epidemic there happened also a distinct case of ordinary puerperal fever. As the miliary fever is not now common in this country, it may be interesting to cite the description of the disease, as it occurred in the Perrara Lying-in Hospital. A healthy woman had a healthy labour on the 31st January. She was seized with fever on the 5th day, beginning with a rigor similar to ague, and ending with copious sweating. On the 6th day the miliary eruption appeared ; on the 9th there was dysuria. The fever reappeared on the 1 ith day, and fresh eruption attended it. The fever was renewed from day to day, with copious sweating and outbreak of miliary vesicles. After the 14th day the fever did not return, except on the 17th. A phlegmonous swelling in the mean time appeared on the right buttock, and turned to abscess, which was opened on the 24th