EXTRACTION 0? CATARACT. 357 manoeuvre, consisted in depressing the scleral border of the section while counter-pressure was made by the fixation forceps. This counter- pressure could not follow the lens on its exit, because the forceps was hxed, or at least the pressure required to be increased in a dangerous degree to attain such an end. By making the point of counter-pressure follow the escaping lens, many inconveniences are avoided; and for this purpose v. Graefe has devised the following method : The first three stages of the operation are performed in the same manner as formerly, but the fixation forceps is applied to a point a line or a line and a half on the nasal side of the vertical meridian. A spoon of hard vulcanite, with a rounded back, is applied with this back against the lower margin of the cornea, and rotated on its axis by a half turn, so that its cavity looks upwards and forwards. In this position, and with a steady pressure directed, in the first instance, towards the centre of the eyeball, the spoon is made to execute a slight movement of pushing upwards, to the extent of about half a line along the base of the cornea. During this the upper edge of the lens advances into the gaping wound. The pressure towards the centre of the eye is continued for a while, and, as the lens escapes, the direction of pressure is gradually changed, so as to become more tangential to the cornea, while the spoon itself is caused to glide upwards after the cataract, which is thus pushed out before it. When the greater part has passed through the wound the rest may be eased out by the spoon; or, what is better, the spoon may be used as before to propel [fragments of cortex. It is very important that the original pressure should not be changed too soon into the tangential movement, since by doing so the inferior portions of cortex would be separated. The eyelid speculum and the fixation forceps remain in place until the operation is com- pleted. The degree of pressure must be in an inverse ratio to the natural tension of the eye, and in collapse of the cornea the spoon may be pressed into the hollow without danger. The author states that during the eight months preceding the date of his paper he has operated on 230 cataracts in this manner. In only 2 cases was any traction instrument required (once from smallness of the wound, and once on account of premature recovery from ana3s- thesia). Loss of vitreous took place only in 9 cases, and in 3 of these before the completion of the section. The cortex was removed entirely without any friction through the eyelids. Careful observation showed that the cornea was in no way injured by the pressure. In 28 cases it had been considerable in degree, and in 7 very considerable. Of these 7 cases all did well. In 3 of the 28 the healing was disturbed, with finally one good result, one half result, and one doubtful. Since the adoption of this method the section has been finished in a rather more oblique direction, from which a better closure of the wound ia obtained. The author now recommends a somewhat larger section, reaching to five lines of external measurement; and that the iris, especially in soft eyes, should still be excised quite up to the corners of the wound. The results of the cases are said to have been very favorable, but the number, 230, is not enough to be of statistical value.