REPORT 0.\ PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 113 produces much more energetic coughing from that of the trachea; in fact, this part is as irritable as the larynx. This fact also corre- sponds with the well-known clinical experience, that in deep-seated catarrh pressure on the manubrium will often cause cough. In order to test these results, further experiments were now made on section of the superior laryngeal nerves, and the trunks of the vagi above the point of their origin. When both vagi were divided irri- tation of the larynx produced cough, but irritation of the trachea and its bifurcation had no effect. When the superior laryngeal nerves were divided the larynx might be irritated to any extent without the least cough ; but irritation of the trachea and its bifurcation produced coughing. These experiments show undoubtedly that it is not only the superior laryngeal nerve whose irritation causes cough, but that yet deeper branches of the vagus, whose terminations supply the mucous membrane of the windpipe, are also capable of causing cough in a reflex manner. We now come to the question whether irritation of the bronchial mucous membrane causes cough. It is no use to test this question by irritation from above, as by a tracheal fistula. The experiment which Nothnagel devised was as follows:—He wounded the lung substance through an opening in an intercostal space. The animal did not cough, but on his making a second puncture it coughed suddenly and violently. Dissection proved that the needle on the last occasion had penetrated a bronchus of medium size. In the next experiment, on a cat, portions of two ribs were cut away, and the collapsed lung was drawn out through the openiug and fastened with a thread. A bit of the lung was now cut off with sharp scissors. The surface showed one or more bronchial tubes. These were irritated. When the experiment is lucky one may chance to cut a bronchus partly lengthways, and irritation can then be well applied. The result leaves no doubt that irritation of the bronchi will cause cough directly ■ nevertheless, it must be con- fessed these experiments are not so exact as those on the trachea and larynx. It is, of course, impossible to experiment upon the smallest bronchial tubes, but it may be assumed that irritation of these also would cause cough. It is impossible to form any conclusion as to the result of irritation of the alveoli. In another series of experiments the result of irritation of the pleura was tested. A dog was experimented upon, a puncture being made through the muscles of an intercostal space. A sound was then introduced so as to cause a pneumothorax, and the sound was moved about in the pleural cavity. No cough was produced. The opening was then enlarged, and further irritation was set up, but no cough occurred. However, it might be said that, although the healthy pleura does not give rise to cough when irritated, an iuHained pleura might produce cough by its irritation. Accordingly a dog was thrown into narcosis with morphia, and in this condition a solution of croton oil in olive oil was ejected into the pleura. The skin wound was closed. When the animal came to itself it winced and cried, but did not cough. The same evening the pleura was irritated, as in the above experiments, in every direction, and there was evidence of pain, but not the least