ItEPOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 180 exceedingly narrow, so that only a fine probe could be passed through it. The entrance to it was also oblique and valve-like, which had evi- dently caused the accumulation. When the mass was lightly pressed no urine flowed, but when much pressure was used the obliquity vanished and the urine passed away readily. The lower portion was normal. When opened the kidney was found to be converted into a lobulated sac, the renal substance reduced to a thin layer a line or two lines in thickness, and covering the whole outer boundary of the sac. There were no traces of the pyramids. There was nothing to show how the narrowing of the ureters was produced. The right kidney was also sacculated, but not so much destroyed. The cause of the obstructiou here was different; at its point of exit the ureter was crossed by an irregular branch of the renal artery (of which on this side there were two). This pressure, slight though it may have been, was sufficient, in course of time, to cause the sacculation. The kidney did not adhere to the intestine. The other organs were sound. Dr. Eoberts cites from various authors a number of such cases. Dr. A. E. Simpson contributes to the ' Glasgow Med. Journ.,' Jan. 1868, an elaborate paper on the subject of hydronephrosis, which he says may affect one kidney alone or both. His case illustrates the disease as one of childhood, not as gradually acquired, as in Dr. Eoberts's case. The infant, when born, looked healthy, but its extremities were thin and its feet were clubbed. The walls of the abdomen were attenuated and flabby. It passed water after birth, and, although not strong, showed nothing very far wrong till the ninth day, when it refused to take the breast. After a few days its urine was noticed to have a disagreeable odour, and when sixteen days old it was found to contain pus ; on the twentieth day it died. On examination the bladder was found to be hypertrophied, its mucous membrane rugose and vas- cular, at some points ecchymotic; it contained a teaspoonful of purulent urine. The orifices of the ureters were extremely narrow, hardly ad- mitting the stilette of a blow-pipe, this narrowing being due to the thickening of the walls of the bladder. Outside, the ureters were swollen to the size of the small intestine, and folded on themselves, owing to their lengthening as well as dilatation. By pressure on these some of the same purulent urine could be forced into the bladder. The pelves and calyces of the kidneys were dilated, and the organs enlarged about one third, resembled cysts, with walls a quarter of an inch thick. They were lobulated, as foetal kidneys ordinarily are, and cysts contain- ing clear fluid were found on their surfaces and in their substance. These cysts were partially occluded and enlarged tubuli urinifcri. After alluding to the ordinary causes of this diseased condition, he proceeds to give some unusual cases. One was that of a young lady who had died of peritonitis. The right kidney was seen to be unusually large. On closer examination a band, formed of thickened peritoneum, was found to cross the ureter. This was probably the result of antecedent in- flammatory action. This, of course, would in time have assumed, by the lengthening of the ureter, more and more of the valvular character, and so constituted an ever-increasing obstacle to the flow of urine. In another case a woman who had been supposed to be the subject of