iRlED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 32 up the meat; allow 1|- pints of cold water to each pound, put in a stewpan, bring very slowly nearly up to the boil, and then simmer gently, closely covered all the morning—say for 4 or 5 hours. Break up 2 oz. of macaroni for each pound of meat, and add it to the stew about 40 minutes before serving. Season with pepper and salt and a spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve with a good dish of potatoes. Tire macaroni looks much better if boiled apart and added to the stew at the last moment, but it does not absorb the gravy so well, nor is the result quite so satisfactory. Houg'h for the Children’s Dinner. Slice the hough rather thickly, and lay it in a pie-dish, with a clove or two; cover the meat with a medium-sized Spanish onion, cut in slices; pour in enough water to cover the meat; place a plate or old ashet on the top so as to cover closely, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. Thicken the gravy, and season with pepper and salt. . Serve with a wall of mashed potatoes. Houg:h, stewed (Shin of Beef). This is more economical than stewed steak, is quite as nice, and contains more “staying” properties. Cut up your meat; dust it lightly with flour; put it into a stewpan with a good lump of dripping; and shake briskly over a good heat till the meat is bmwned; do this as quickly as possible, so as not to harden the meat. Then add cold water—a pint for every pound; a peeled onion, stuck with a clove or two ; and a sprig of pai'sley, a bay leaf, some herbs, and a bit of lemon peel, all tied in a piece of muslin. Simmer slowly for 3 hour's. Meanwhile, out up some onion, turnip, and carrot into dice ; allow 1 or 2 breakfastcupfuls of each (according to taste and circumstances) to each pound of hough. If you have the time, fry these lightly in a pan with a piece of dripping—it greatly improves their flavour. About ] hour before you wish to serve 3Kiur stew, add the vegetables to it, and slightly increase the heat, but don’t boil. Then at the last, stir in a good tablespoonful of ketchup or Worcester sauce, and, with a good dish of potatoes, you will have a dinner “fit for a king,” which gives the maximum of nutriment at the minimum of cost. Hot Pot. 2 Mui>ton Chops. 1 Sheep’s Kidney, 1 Onion, Potatoes, cut in rather thin slices, 1 small spoonful Worcester Sauce, and a dessertspoonful Dripping or Butter, Salt and Pepper to taste. Put a layer of the cut potatoes in the bottom of a dish strong enough to stand the oven, and rather deep. Then a layer of chops and kidney cut in pieces. Fill up with potatoes and onion out in pieces, with sauce, and a little water. Cover with greased paper; put in the oven for 1^ hours. Grilled Mutton Chops. These should be cut, 1 inch or more in thickness, from the loin. Season with salt and pepper; place a little butter or fat on each; put under the gas grill when quite red, and grill on both sides, allowing 4 or 5 minutes for each side. Serve plain, or with a little fat or butter on each.