2i6 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. A good mud bnasli for boots is made by glueing a strip of Brue* sela earpet to a convenient sized piece of wood. No injuiy to leather, and less dust and labour than, brush. To clean brown shoes, first rub them with a soft cloth dipped ‘i methylated spii’it; this will remove all stains and keep them a good colour. Then put the brown boot-cream on, and leave it on for a day or so without polishing. Finally, brush the shoes with a soft brush, and they will be much improved. To blacken brpwn boots. Take a raw potato ana cnt in halves. Rub over boots well. Then rub blacking well in. R( suit will be so satisfactory it will be difficult to say boots were not always black. Vaseline malces good dressing for brown shoes. Clean patent boots with milk, or a little sweet oil may be rubbed in. Mix 1 spoonful sweet oil and 2 spoonfuls of black ink, and apply with sponge to boots, black kid gloves, bags, and nisty book covers. Soles for boots or shoes cut from old felt hats are most comfort- able. If a boot or shoe pinches in any particular part, a cloth wrung out of veiy hot water and laid over the place while the boot is on the foot will expand the leather and give relief. Jet trimming, rusty and limp, may be made equal to new by mixing equal parts vinegar and water to cover, and letting it remain in basin 20 minutes. Remove, and leave to dry. Books which have had the leaves torn are best mended by pasting a piece of tissue paper over the entire page. The print is then visible through it. To frost windows. Dissolve some Epsom salts in hot water and make it strong as possible. Then wash it over the glass while hot with a brush. To Keep Moths out of Drawers. Mix together equal parts of oil of cedar, oil of cajeput, oil of cloves. Put a little of this on a bit of flannel and thoroughly rub the inside of the drawers with it. In course of time the wood will acquire a pleasant spicy scent, and moths will not go near them. Little bits of paper or anything else may be moistened with the oil and put amongst the clothes. Of course the oil should not be allowed to corne into actual contact with silks or things that could be marked by it, and it must be remembered that everjdhing should be well shaken before it is put away, as the oil will not kill moths or destroy their eggs if they are already there. For Green Fly on Geraniums. Apply 2 oz. soft soap, stirred into 1 gallon boiling water. Coffee grounds, cold tea, and tea-leaves are excellent for mixing tvith the earth in flower-pots, especially for feras. To Preserve Flowers. Add a spoonful of powdered charcoal to the vnter in which they are placed, and the flowers will last as long as though they were still on the plant without any need of changing the water; or dissolve a small piece of camphor in the water.