59 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. celery (about equal quantity of all), with some thin vegetable stock (not too much),’ and cook gently for about U- hours. A little cauli- Mcyver, artichokes, or tomatoes could be added if liked, and thicken with a little baked flour, and add a few drops or more of Mapleton’s nut gravy essence. This, with some crisp toast or fried bread, makes .a tasty and wholesome dish. I .save nearly all my rough pieces of veo-etable for stock, even tho outside of onions washed well, and tougli pi«:es of cabbage, Ac. A delicioms soup is made from all sorts of vegetables cooked a long time, straincil well, and a little veimicelR added. Tliere must bo plenty of vegetable, and then it is fit for the mo.st fastidious taste. Tt is quite good without any butter, but a few onions, browned in a little nutter (vegetal)le Imtter) first, add a riclier flavour, perhaps, and also'a little vegefable gravy essence. It is cer- tainly a good 'vay of niaking use of the salts! Jerusalem Artichokes. 1 lb. artichokes, well Avashed and scrajicd, eacli one throAvn into fresh cold water and vinegar; when .all are done, lanso in water and put into boiling milk and water, and salt. Hoil (juickly with lid oft', pierce with fork to Icnow if done. Lilt out carefully on to dish di- rectly (if left in milk and water tliey turn black, or if any eyes were left in), and cover with sauce. .Sauce—-1 o/. butter, I oz. flour, 1 A'olk egg, lemo'ii juice, salt, ]icp]ier, .5 gills milk, and 1 tablespoonful cteam. Melt butter, add flour. Slir, cook a few minutes, add milk gradually and cook a little. Heat egg and ci'eam, and add, after sauce is oft' boil, lemon juice last, and seasoning. I’our over, and add minced parsley if liked, Asparagfus and Egg Sauce. Hold head in left hand, and scrape gently down till you get stringy ends away, then tie with thread. Drop into boiling salt and water, and boil rapidly till the heads fall to bottom of jDan. Lift them out and place in dish. Take away thread, and pour 0A’’er theni sauce prepared thus:-—Put yolks of 2 eggs in jug, with 1 ounce butter, 1 gill of cream, and juicei of ^ lemon. Stand jug in boiling water, and whisk till it is creamy. Garnish with sippets of toast. To cook Broad Beans. Blanch them, in boiling Avater like almonds, then boil them genth- in salted boiling Avater—no soda—for 10 or 15 minutes till quite soft. Serve Avith parsley sauce. To Use up Cold French Beans. Put 1 pint tomato juice and 2 shallots in pan and let them cook 20 minutes Theoi strain and season, pepper and salt, and return to pan. Tliicken Avith a, little flour and butter aa orked together and cooked 5 minutes. Have about 1 lb. beans neatly sliced, lay in juice, thoroughly heat and serve. Beans, French or Kidney. Cut off the ends, and remove the stringy part. Cut lengthwise, and throAv them into a pan of boiling Avater containing 1 teaspoonful salt to each quart of Avater, a pinch of sugar and soda. Boil till tender with lid off about 20 minutes. Drain and shake in pan till dry, add pepper and a small piece of butter. Serve hot with parsley sauoe.