TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERV BOOK. 1^5 quick oven 5 or 10 minutes. whites. Sift 3 cupfuls of flour witli 2 teaspoonfuls, baking powder and 1 do. salt. Stir in the' sugar and eggs. Roll out, using what flour is necessary, and no more. Cut into shapes, and fiy a light blown. Griddle Cakes. Sift together 1 pint flour, \ teaspoonful salt, and 1 heaped do. baking powder. Stir in 2 well-beaten eggs, and 1 pint of milk. Mix thoroughly, and bake at once and quickly. Pop-Overs. Beat 1 egg for 6 minutes, stir in 1 cupful of flour alternately with 1 cupful milk, teaspoonful salt. Beat all thoroughly, -and bake in buttered muffin-pans in a hot oven. SMALL CAKES. Albert Cakes. 4 lb. riour, good teaspoonful Cinnamon, 3 saltspoonfuls sifted Sugar, a little Salt, few drops Lemon Juice, 1 Egg, a little Jam. Rub butter into flour, cinnamon and sugar. Roll out ^ inch. Cut in stripes 3 inches wide and 2 stripes 1 incli wide. Lay down centre of broad stripe a little jam. Put little cross bars across centre of jaiw. Wet edges of stripe of pastry and lay on narrow stripes. Brush over with sugar and water. Bake 20 minutes. Cut in fingers —one cross bar to each cake. Almond Cakes. 6 Q7,. fine Flour, 4 oz. Butter, 4 oz. eifted Sugar, 2 oz. Almonds, 2 Eggs, 1 tablespoonful Milk, i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Blanch the almonds; cut a few in stripes for the top of the cake, chop the others finely. Grease small tins. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add the almonds, flour, and eggs well beaten, milk, and baking powder. Half fill the tins with the mixture, sprinkle the al- monds on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. OR, Whites of 2 Eggs, i lb. powdered Almonds, 2 oz. Sugar, 1 dessertspoonful Flour. Mix all lightly together, drop on wafer paper, and bake in mod- • erate oven 5 to 7 minutes, till they puff well up. Let cool on tins, then lift carefully up' and break away wafer paper from bottom. Keep in tin. Almond and Honey Cakes. 1 lb. Flour, 1 lb. lloney, 6 oz. Ground Almonds, 6 oz. Butter, 1 teaspoonful Powdered Cloves, teaepponfuls Carbonate of Soda. Put the honey and butter on the fire and let it boil up. Mix the flour, cloves, and almonds together, and pour the boiling mixture on. them. Mix the soda in a little cold milk and add the last thing. Mix all well and let it stand for 5 or 6 hours. Tlien roll out into 1 inch thick rounds, or squares. Put a few almonds on the top and bake till a golden brown, about 15 minutes. Almond and Rice Cakes. “ Almonds, 2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, 4 oz. Ground Rice, 2 Whites of Eggs. Beat butter to cream. Add sugar and almonds, then sprinkle in rice, beating it all the time. Whip whites to stiff froth and mix all together. Drop in teaspoonfuls on a well-greased tin, and bake ih