m TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Foil Cakk. 31 oiz. Butter, 11 ok. Flour, 10 oz. Castoz' Sugar, 1 lb. Currants, 1 lb Raisius, i lb. Sweot Alru^oud*, 4 oz. Candied Peel, i teacupful Milk 6 or 7 Eggs, i oz. Mi\ed Spice. ’ Beat butter to a cream, add sugar, and beat well together, then add the eggs, well-beaten, gradually, and work them well into it. Blanche and choiJ the almonds, stone and chop raisins, chop peel, and add all these to the butter, with flour, spices, and milk. Mix well, turn into a greased tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in, moder- ate oven from 3-^ to 4 hours. Spread almond paste over top of cake, then royal icing. (Sea these recipes.) Cocoa-Nut Cake. 2 lb. Flour, 5 lb. grated Cocoa-nut, 6 oz. each Butter and powdered Sugar, i teacupful new Milk, 1 tablespoonful Bird’s Concentrated Egg Powder. Gx'ate the white of the cocoa-nut, and mix it with the flour, sugar, and egg powder. After softening the butter, and lightly rubbing it into the other ingredients, moisten the whole with the milk, slightly warmed, and bake in a moderately quick oven in well buttei'ed cake tin. Cocoa-Nut Sandwich. C oz. powdered Sugar, 2 oz. Butter, 2 teacupfuls Flour, 3 Eggs, 2 teaspooufuls Baking Powder. Put butter and flour in one basin, put yolks and sugar in another, and whites on iflate. Rub butter among flour till fine, beat yolks and sugar till creamy, whip Avhites to stiff fi'oth. Then add to yolks and sugar ^ cui^ful SAveet milk, Avhites of eggs, and flour. Have ready two imind tins, greasetl and papered. Put half in each, and bake to nice brown. Turn out and take off paper. Mix lb. dessicated cocoa-nut, the whites of 2 eggs whipped to stiff’ froth. Spread over bottom side of one cake. Put on top of other cake, and return to mouth of very- slow oven to dry with door open. Ice top of cake same as other icing. Cornflour Cake. i lb. Cornflour, 1 tablespoonful Flour, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, 2 oz. Butter, 1 tea- spoonful Baking Powder, 2 Eggs, or 1 Egg and a little Milk. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream Avith a Avooden spoon, then beat the eggs and add them Avith. the flour and cornflour by degrees, beating Avell, and adding the baking poAvder at .the last. Pour the mixture into a greased cake tin (do not lot it be more than half full), put it immediately into a hot oven, and bake about ^ hour. If liked, the mixture can be baked in small patty pans, and Avill then take only from 10 to 15 minutes to bake. Creatrs Cake. 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, 1 Egg, 14 teacupfuls Milk, and 1 teaspoonful Cinnamon. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the egg and milk. Put 2 teaspoons baking poAvder Avith -J lb. flour and knead it to a stiff dough. If this seems too soft, take a little more, as flour varies in strength and some takes more moisture in baking. Roll the dough into a round cake, half cut through the centre Avith a. smaller cutter. Bake for 20 minutes. When cooked, fill the centre Avith whipped cream, and ic© the top of cake. • Cumberland Cake. Prepare some nice dough for pastry, and spread it over an old kitchen plate (Avhich has been fii'st Avell buttered); then fill the holloAV