TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 94 Green Onion Toast. Take 1 lb. green onions, trim away any withered! part.s, and cut up the green into half-inch lengths. Put these in a saucepan, with boiling water to barely cover; add ^ teaspoonful salt, and rather less of sugar; also some powdered mint or sage. Cook gently for A- hour; then add the white of the onions cut in rings, and stew for ^ hour longer. Then stir in 4 oz. of .butter, a little ketchup, and any additional seasoning necessary, and serve on toast as aliove. Croustades Findon Haddock and Tomato. 6 croustades bread 1 inch thick. Make hole in centre, with smaller cutter to put mixture in (bread removed will do for crumbs), egg and bread-ciaimb these, and fry in boiling fat deep enough to cover them. For mixture take ^ oz. butter, and same of flour, ^ gill milk or fish sauce, 4 tablespoonfuls cooked fish, finely cut; 2 tomatoes, peeled and out small, pepper and salt. Fill in mixture, place in oven to heat through, and serve very liot. Ham Croquettes. i lb. cooked Ham, i lb. cooked Potatoes, 2 hard-boiled Eggs, 1 yolk of Egg, 1 tablespoonful minced Parsley. Chop ham and eggs and mix with parsley; add potatoes and seasoning. Add yolk of egg and mix thoroughlju Flour the hands well and form into small balls. Fry in boiling fat.- < Ham Toast. Make a little white sauce, mince some cold ham with one gherkin ; add a little pepper and salt, and mix all together. Toast a slice of bread, and butter it; out it into squares, spread the mixture on it, and put into the oven to heat. Ham Toast (No. 2). 3 oz. Ham, ^ oz. Butter, i teaspoonful Mustard, Pepper and Salt. Heat through, and lay in spoonfuls on squares of toast, with another on top. Press together, and serve instantly. Herring: Creams. 1 kippered herring, boned, washed, and nibbed through sieve. Add yolks of two eggs, white of one, salt, pinch pepper, 2 tablespoon- fuls very thick cream. Put a little of mixture in little paper cases. Bake a nice golden colour. Decorate with chopped parsley. Serve on fish paper or folded napkin. Kidneys and Bacon. 2 slices of Bacon to each Kidney. Prepare kidneys, and sprinkle salt and pepper over. Put bacon in cold frying pan, and continually move and turn till crisp and brown. Lift on hot dish. Then Cs'‘ok kidney very well, adding more fat if necessary. Tuim over every 2 or 3 seconds. Lift on bacon. Serve very hot. Kidney Omelette. Sheep’s Kidney, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Butter, Salt, Pepper. ^Partially cook the kidney in boiling water, or fry in butter, with pepper and salt, cutting it in small pieces if fried; let it cool. Beat well the eggs, and add the kidney. Melt butter in omelette pan, pour the mixture into it, and shake over fire till set. With laiifej loosen round edges; double overj and serve on hot dish.