TRlhD FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. lOf) the rest of the milk. Cover batter and set aside for an hour or more. When ready to use stir in beaten white. Remove skin and coarse threads from bananas, cut in halves crosswise, then lengthwise, and dip in the batter, covering completely. Fry in deep fat a golden brown. Serve, sprinkled with castor sugar and cinnamon. Often the bananas are sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice, and set aside^ half-an-hour before frying. When so treated, the banana must be drained carefully before it is dipped in the batter. Bakewell Pudding:. To the yolks of 3 eggs add the white of one, 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. of butter, and grated rind of 1 lemon. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then add eggs and lemon. Spread a layer of pastry on a plate, then a layer of blackcurrant jam, and cover with the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. Best cold. Barley Pudding:. 2 oz. Barley, 1 pint Milk, 1 oz. Sugar, Nutmeg or Vauilla to flavour, or Sultanas. Steep the barley 24 hours in ^ pint water. Pour away any water not absorbed. Grease a dish and put in barley, sugar, flavouring, and milk, and bake in slow oven 3 hours. An egg may be added. Baroness Pudding:. i oz. Bread Crumbs, 4 oz. Raisins, 3 oz. Suet, 1 oz. Flour, a grate of Nutmeg, 1 Lemon rind, oz. Sugar, 1 Egg, and i gill Milk. Mix well together. Pour into buttered mould, and steam 2^ hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. OH, i lb. Suet, f lb. stoned Raisins, j lb. self-raising Flour, i teaspoonful of Salt. Tie in a floured cloth, and boil without ceasing 4^ hours. Serve with sugar. Basket Pudding:. Make a sponge-cake with 1 teacupful Sugar, 1 do. Flour, a pinch of Baking Powder, 3 Eggs, and a tableepoonful of Milk Beat eggs, add sugar, then flour, milk, and baking powder. Put in a well-greased oval cake tin to hold 1 pint and bake a nice brown. Turn out to cool, then scoop out inside. Brush outside over with two kinds of jelly, and sprinkle grated cocoanut over it while damp. Fill the inside with stewed fruit. Pile whipped cream on top. Decorate with cherries; then take two long strips of angelica twisted together, and place over pudding to represent a handle. Batter Pudding:. i lb. Flour, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, pinch of Salt, 2 Eggs, 1 pint Milk, 2 oz. Currants, or Sultanas. Mix flour, powder, and salt. Stir the eggs, not beaten, only dropped into this, and add milk gradually, stirring carefully. Stand it aside ^ hour. Then put currants at bottom of greased basin and pour in batter ; cover with cloth dipped in boiling water and floured, and boil 1 hour, or cover with buttered paper and steam 1 hour. Suffi- cient for 6 persons. Batter Pudding: (Savoury) . 4 oz. Flour, 2 Eggs, i pint Milk. 2 Onions, 1 teaspoonful Sage, Pepper and Salt. . Put flour in basin. Break eggs into another. Add half of milk to flour, then eggs well beaten Peel, scald, and mince onions, and