172 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Spongre Cake (2). 3 Eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls Flour, 4 tablespoonfula Castor Sugar, about as much Carbonate of Soda as would cover a threepenny piece. Beat the eggs and sugar with a whisk for 20 minutes; then iiut in Hour and soda, and mix all together as quickly as possible. Put into a tin previously lined with buttered paper, and sprinkled with sugiar Put into a good oven at once. Spong^e Cake (3). To -I lb. flour well dried put 7 eggs, leaving out 3 whites; beat thean well, yolks and whites sejiarately. Dissolve f lb. of loaf sugar, well rubbed on the peel of a lemon, in ^ gill of water; put it into a saucepan; let it remain on the fire until it boils gently, then pour it boiling on the eggs, whisking them all the time. Beait them together ^ hooir; then add flour as lightly as possible, put it immediately into mould, and bake 1 hour in quick oven. Mould must only be half filled, and prepared by being well biittered, then carefully dusted all over, first with flour, and then with finely powdered sugar. Sponge Cake (4). 1 lb Flour, 1 lb. Sugar, ^ lb. Butter, '5 Eggs, 1 teacupful Sweet Milk, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, and 1 teaspoonful Essence of Lemon. Beat the butter tO' a creaiml; add sugar, switch eggs well, and put among milk; mix with butter and sugar. Rub baking powder among flour, and stirring; add essence of lemon. Put in papered tin, and bake in moderate oven. Sultana Cake. J lb. Flour, 1- lb. Butter, ^ lb. Sugar, 5 Eggs, J lb. Sultanas, i lb. Candied Peel, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Rub butter into flour: add sugar, sultanas, peel, and baking powder. Break one egg and drop it in, and beat up; and then an- other, and SO' on, adding a little milk if necessar}^ Bake in mod- erate oven. OR, i lb. Flour, i lb. Butter, i lb. Sugar, i lb. Sultanas, 1 oz. Candied Peel, 2 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, i gill Milk, 1 Lemon. Rub butter in flour, add sugar, powder, and raisins, and grated rind of lemon and cut peel. Put milk in basin, add yolks. Stir into basin and mix well with other ingredients Wiip whites stiffly, an<i stir in lightly. Bake 1^ hours or so. Tfirn out of tin and stand on side or on sieve to cool. Victoria Sandwiches (1). 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, 6 oz. Flour, 3 Eggs, teaspoonful Baking Powder, Cream butter and sugar, add flour and egg alternately till all used. Beat mixture till smooth; just before putting in flat tin, add teaspoonful baking powder, and mix thoroughly: Grease and paper tin; bake in good oven 5 to 7 minutes, turn out from tin to cool. Cut in half, turn on sugared paper; spread jelly or soft jam on one, and lay the other over. For icing: — 4 tableepoonfuls Icing Sugar, juice ia,eiuon, tableepoonful Hot W,^er. Work till quite smooth, spread on cake Wvth knife dipped m water. Ury, then with knife dipped in hot water cut