TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. U4 Gugar, and stir into milkj itc., and put into double pan till it nearly boils, stirring constantly. When thick, take from the fire immed- iately, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stir it lightly, and pour into a wetted mould. Russian Cream. I packet Gelatine, 1 pint Milk, 2 Eg:g8, 1 table,spoon Sugar, and teaspoon Essence. Steep gelatine in milk for about 10 minutes to soften. Put gela- tine, milk, and yolks (beaten up) of eggs in pan ; bring to boiling point, but on no account through the boil. Switch the whites of eggs to a snow. Lift off the pan, and lightly mix in the whites. Wet the mould, and pour all in. Leave till cold. Semolina Souffle. 1 pint milk mixed in 1 oz. Cadbury’s cocoa and 3 oz. semolina. Stir over fire till semolina is cooked. Then add 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar and vanilla flavouring. Mix well. Add yolks of 4 eggs, then stiff whites. Line souffle-tin (greased well) with brown bread crumbs, and pour mixture in carefully. Cover with greased paper, and steam 25 minutes. Serve with rich custard sauce, flavoured with vanilla. Snow Shape. The whites of 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Gelatine, 4 oz. Sugar, the juice of two Lemons. Soak gelatine and sugar in ^ pint of cold water, leave for an hour; add | pint hot water (not quite boiling). Let it stand for 10 minutes ; strain gelatine, and add to it the whites of eggs, sugar, and lemon juice. Whisk all for 25 minutes or till firm; put in a wetted mould. Spongre Apricot, Scoop out all the centre of a stale sponge-cake, leaving only a case. Open a tin of apricots., and fill the case with the apricots. Strew over dessicated cocoa-nut, and put case on a crystal. Stewed Apples and Peach Jam. 8 oz. Peach Jam or Bottled Peaches, 4 oz. Sxigar, i pint Water, 6 or 8 even- sized Apples, 2 gills Cream. Boil sugar and water together for 1 hour. Have apples ready, peeled and cored, and put them in and simmer very slowly 4 or 6 hours. They must be cooked, but not broken. Take out the apples very carefully and fill them with the jam. .Whip cream and put a little on eacji. Pour syrup round. Tapioca Cream. Take 1 tablespoon of tapioca, soak in cold water as long as possible; when thoroughly dissolved pour in a pint of milk. Put on the fire, and when beginning to boil stir in the yolks of 2 eggs, beaten well with a little sugar. When this boils stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and take immediately from fire. Flavour to taste. Trifle (1). 8 Sponge-Cakes, 4 spoonfuls Raspberry Jam, 5 Eggs, 2 cupfuls Milk, Sugar, Essence of Lemon, Macaroon Biscuits. Cut cakes in slices and place in glass dish, wjth the jam spread