152 TRIED EAYODRITES COOKERY BOOK. Whea.ten Mea.! Scones. 3 teaoupfula of Wheaten Flour, 1 teaeupM of Flour, 1 teaRpoonful of Soda 1 do. Cream of Tartar, 1 do. Sugar, ^ do. Salt, 1 dessertspoonful Butter or Margarine, about a breakfastcupful of Butter-milk. Mix in the same way as the white scones, and fire on a girdle or in a quick oven for about 10 minutes. Wheaten Meal Loaf (Steamed). 1 lb. 'Wheaten Meal, 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, 1 do. Suear. i do Cream of Tartar, ^ do. of Salt. Mix with butter-milk into a soft dough. Steam for 2 hours in a deep cake pan with a buttered paper tied over the top. Care must bo taken that no water gets into the pan while steaming. SMALL BISCUITS. Secret in having very light flaky biscuits is to handle as little as possible and get quickly into hot even. Abernethy Biscuits. Dissolve ^ lb. butter, in ^ pint warm milk; 4 lb. flour, a few carraways, ^ lb. sugar, and make stiff but smooth paste. To render biscuits short and light, add drachm carbonate of ammonia in powder. Roll very thin. Cut, prick with fork, and bake on tins in quick ovfen. Arrowroot Biscuits. 2 oz. Arrowroot, 4 oz. Flour, 1 Egg, 1 oz. Sugar, 3 oz. Butter, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Rub the butter and flour well together, then add the other ingre- dients except the baking powder and egg; add these last. Roll out and cut in shapes, and bake until firm. Biscuits. 2 lb. Flour, 1 lb. Butter, 1 Egg, a little Sugar, Milk to make a thick paste. Make each l:)iscu'it round, about \ oz. in weight. Bake immed- iately in quick oven 3 or 4 minutes. Brown Bread Biscuits. 2 cupfuls whole brown Meal, 1 cupful Flour, tiny pinch Salt,^iece of Butter about size of egg, 1 dessertspoonful Castor Sugar, 1 do. Baking Powder. Rub butter in flour, &c. Mix as light as possible to very soft dough. Roll out to about ^ in. thick; cut in shapes. Prick over with fork; bake to nice brown colour in quick oven. Butter Biscuits. 1 lb. Flour, 1 Egg, J lb. Butter, small teaspoonful Baking Powder, a little Salt. Mix baking powder, flour, and salt. Rub in butter, having squeezed out milk; add egg, well beaten, and as much water as will make stiff paste. Roll three times, then again very thin ; prick and cut, and bake in quick oven. Cheese Biscuits. 2 oz. Flour, 1 oz Butter, 2 oz. Cheese, Mustard, Pepper, and Salt. 1 yolk of Egg. Mix well. Cut out. Bake in quick oven.