78 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Cream Salad Dressing for Cold Salmon, &c. 2 Eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls Vinegar, 1 do. Cream, 1 teaspoonful Sugar, i tea- spoonful Salt, i teaspoonful Keen’s Mustard. Beat eggs well, add other ingredients by degrees, place bowl in boiling water, and stir till thickness of cream. Cool and use as re- quired. Victoria Salad (for Tea). Cut some new brown bread and butter in, thin slices. Spread one side with shrimp paste or anchovy. Cut into squares, and roll up in cylinder shapes with a little chopped watercress or mustard and cress. Stand each upright on dish in a little ring of raw cucumber. Put a radish on the top: SAUCES. tf at any time a sauce oils, add a little cold milk, water, or stock, and -pour backwards and forwards a few times. If by any chance it is lumpy be sure to put it through a strainer, fust a squeeze of lemon juice added to sauces, soups, gravies, or stews, after cooking, brings out the flavour wonderfully, and is a great improvement. Anchovy Sauce. 1 oz. Butter, i oz. Flour, i teaspoonful Lemon Juice, i pint Milk, 1 teaspoon- ful Anchovy Sauce, pinch Cayenne Pepper. Melt butter in pan, add flour, mix till smooth. Pour the milk over, and stir till boiling. Eemove from fire, and add seasonings— no salt, as essence is salt enough. Apple Sauce. 6 Apples, Butter, and Sugar. Prepare apples as for pie. Put in saucepan with tablespoonful water; simmer till soft; drain water from them, and stir in a little butter and moist sugar. Tliey will do equally well in basin covered with plate in oven. Aspic Jelly. 1 quart Stock, whites and shells of 3 Eggs, 1 Onion sliced. Carrot, 1 table- spoonful Vinegar, 1 teaspoonful Salt, i teaspoonful Pepper, 2 oz. leaf Gelatine, Juice and Rind of.l Lemon, 4 Cloves. Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, slightly beating the eggs with a little of the stock; stir with whisk until'it boils. Remove the whisk, and let the froth boil up to the top of the saucepan. Cover, and let it stand ten minute® to clear. Then pour through the jelly bag, first pouring boiling water to warm the bag. Use for savoury, garnish, <ko. Batter for Frying: Veg:etables. 2 Eggs, i lb. Ploiur, teacupful Water. Beat eggs with flour till quite smootli; add water, peppei’, and salt. It should be rather thick, or it will not adhere. Bread Sauce. 4 oz. fin© Bread Crumbs, ^ oz. Onion, a blade Mace, 1 doz. white Peppercorns, i pint Water, 1 oz. Butter, 3 tablespoonfuls Cream. Cut onions in thin slices; set on fire with the water, mace, and pepper. Boil till onion is soft; strain water over cnimbs, cover with