TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. ■‘«4 Stock for Calf’s Foot Jelly. 4 Calf's Feet, 3 pints Water. Divide and wasv feet well and. remove all fat, put into pan with the water cold, bring sloTrly to- the boil, and skim well; simmer vei’y slowly 6 hours, strain throiigh wire sieve, allow to stand 12 houre; remove the fat, and it is ready foi +he jelly. It should bj stiff enough to stand; if not, add a little isinglass. Calf’s Foot Jelly. 1 quart Calf’s Foot Stock, Rind and Juice of 3 Ivcmons, 6 oz. Sugar, Whites and Shells 3 Eggs, a little Isinglass if required, 2 inches Cinnamon ■ Stick, 2 Clove®. Put stock, lemon, cinnamon, cloves, and sugar into pan, beat shells and eggs in 2 tablespoonfuls water, add to pan, and stir occas- ionally till jelly boils. Let it boil well up till it reaches.top of pan, draw to one side, and let it stand 10 minutes. Prepare jelly bag or cheese cloth by pouring through it 1 quart boiling water, then the jelly. If not clear the first time, pour it back gentl}’- into the bag till it nins clear. Pour into small moulds or glasses. After the jelly has been lun through the bag, pour in 1^ pints Imiling water. Let it nm into a jug and stand till cold. It will be a very pleasant drinlc. Camomile Tea. (Good for Sleeplessness.) 1 teasf)oonful of the dried flowers to a cup boiling water. Pour water over. Cover and steep by side of fire 10 minutes or so. Egfg' Drink. I gill hot milk, Put jmlk in basin with teaspoonful sugar, and beat. Pour hot milk over. Whip white to stiff froth. Stir egg mix- ture into tumbler, and stir in white lightly. Serve with toast or biscuit. Egg Flip. 1 white of Egg, 1 teacupful of Milk, pinch of White Pepper, Sugar. Put the milk on to boil, beat white of egg prettj^ stiffly and sprin- kle pepper over it. Pour boiling milk over white, stining vigorously. Add sugar to taste. Egg Jelly. 1 pint liquid (juice of 2 Lemons made up to a pint with water), 2 Lemons (rind ajid juice), 6 oz. Loaf Siigar, 2 Eggs, t oz. Gelatine. Put the gelatine in a saucepan, add to it the sugar and lemon peel, strain the juice, and make it up toi 1 pint water; add this to the other ingredients; beat the eggs, add them; stir the mixture over a moderate fire until the gelatine is melted j strain, pour into prepared moulds, and when set turn out. The jelly must not be allowed to boil; if it does boil, the albumen of the egg becomes hardened and indi- gestible. Egg Snow for Invalids. 1 Egg, 1 tablespoonful Milk, 1 teaspoonful Sugar (or to taste). Orange or Lemon Juice to taste. Separate the egg, put the jmlk into a small basin and the white on a plate, beat the, latter to a. stiff froth with a knife. Add the sugar, milk, and juice to the yolk, and beat well, then stir the white in very lightly, and serve it in a clean bi’ight tumbler.