TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY. BOOK. 231 stained part on flat plate and dip piece flannel in solution of oxalio acid. Rub stain rapidly, then rinse thoroughly to remove acid. To take paint out of clothing, take equal parts ammonia and turpentine. Saturate spots two or thi’oe times, then wash in soap suds. Gravy makes an ugly grease-spot on a tablecloth, and this may be removed with powdered French chalk. Rub it on both sides of the spot and lay the cloth away. It will absorb the grease and leave the cloth spotless. Remove grease marlcs on pages of books by sponging with ben- zine, placing page between two sheets of blotting paper, and pressing with a hot iron. Kerosene removes ir.k-stains and fresh paint, while nothing takes blood-stains out bettor than cold soap-suds, to which a little kerosene has been added. Blood-stains on silk, satins, &c., can be easily removed by mak- ing a thick paste of starch and water and co^'ering the stain with it. Leave till quite diy, and then brush the starch off with a soft brosh, and all traces of blood will have gone and no harm will be done the material. Use soda water for washing anything greasy. The alkali turns the grease to soap which will do its own cleaning. Ink-Stalns on Wood. For ink-stains on fumiture add six drops of nitre to a teaspoon- ful of water, and apply it to the stain with a feather. I^ the wood is polished, rub with sweet oil immediately after. If the stain does nob yield to the first application, make it stronger, and repeat the process. To renovate tops of writing tables and leather chairs, sponge lightly with warm soap suds, and then wipe off with whites of eggs whipped stiff. To Clean Furs, Tapestry, &c. Warm bran in oven. Rub well into fur sevei’al times. Shake and bi-ush free from dust. Rub light furs witli magnesia. Stains on the Hands will disappear at once if rubbed with fresh lemon juice. The refuse that has been left over from cooking will be quite sufficient for this pui-pose if lemon is not at hand; a little flour of mustard will do equally well. The stains that appear so readily when peeling onions rnay be altogether prevented by cleaning that vegetable under water. To remove whitewash marks from floors, furniture, and windows, apply a small quantity of parafldn on a soft cloth. The stains will dis- appear completely, and this does not injure the most delicate paint. The white spots that appear on mahogany when a hot dish has been placed on it may be greatly improved by rubbing with kerosene. Kitchen Tables and Shelves. You will be able to keep these very white and clean if you have this mixture used for scouring them : —| lb. of sand, ^ lb. of soft soap, J lb. of lime. Work all well together into a paste. Put this on the scrubbing brush, then wash it off with plenty of clean water. To Absorb Damp in a Cupboard. Fill a small box with lime, and place upon a shelf. This will result in the air in the cupboard being kept both dry and sweet.