TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 12 thickening of 2 tablespoonfuls flour and ^ pint milk. Stir in when the soup boils. Season with sugar, pepper, and salt, according to taste. Pea Soup. 1 lb. Split Peas, 2 oz. Dripping, a piece of Carrot, piece of Turnip, an Onion, a little minced Parsley, Salt, and Pepper. Wash peas well, and soak overnight with a small piece of soda. Put on tO' boil with 3 quarts cold water and the dripping. "\Mien boiling, skim well, and add onion, cut in small pieces. Boil for 3 hours, strain and return to pot, add the grated carrot and turnip, minced parsley, and pepper and salt. Bring again to the boil. Seiw^e with sippets of toast. A little milk and teaspoonful curry powder may be added. A little milk or cream gives, a nice fresh flavour to any soup. Good made from ham or ix)ast beef bone. Green Pea. Soup. Put in pan 1 oz. butter. When melted, add 1 sprig of mint, and i peck green peas, shells and all, the latter well washed and broken up, ^ teaspoonful salt, and teaspoonful white pepper. Toss over fire until they have taken in all the butter. Tlien add 2 pints cold water, and let all boil together with 3 spring onions till soft enough to pass through wire sieve. Then return to pan with 1 lump sugar. Stir till boiling, and serve with tiny dice of fried or toasted bread. Potato Soup. 10 Potatoes. 1 oz. Dripping, an Onion, Pepper, Salt, and 3 quarts Water. Add dripping to water (cold), and when water is boiling, add potatoes sliced, and onion, cut veiy small; and boil for 1 hour. Add seasoning, and, if liked, minced parsley, and carrot and ^ turnip grated. Boil for another hour, and serve hot. The potatoes should be boiled to a pulp, and the soup be nice and thick, not watery. Potato Soup (for 4 persons). 1 lb. Potatoes, 1 oz. Butter, ^ pint Milk, 1 quart Stock, 1 Onion, ^ teaspoon- ful Peppercorns. Slice potatoes and onions, and fry in the butter, but do not brown them. Add stock and peppercox'ns, and boil 30 minutes. Rub through a sieve, add milk and salt to taste. Re-heat and serve. (For stock, ^ head celeiy, 1 large onion, 2 quarts water, bunch sweet herbs, 2 blades mace, 2 teaspoonfuls bovril, and a little salt. Slice vegetables and add to the water, &c. Boil for one hour, strain, then stir in bovril, and season.) Soup made from New Potatoes. Thoroughly wash and scrape a few new potatoes; put them into boiling water and keep boiling for a few minutes. Drain off the ■water. Put in a cupful of green peas, some green onion cut into small pieces, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of milk. Cover them freely ■wuth boiling water, and continue boiling slowly for half-an-hour without the lid. ! Potato Puree. 2 lb. Potatoes, 1 oz. Butter, the white 4>arta of 2 Leeks, 1 pint Skim Milk, 1 pint Water, small piece Mace, 1 teaspoonful Salt, i teaspoonful white Pepper, yolks of 2 Eggs. (When eggs are dear, a large tablespoonful Cornflour to thicken with.) Put potatoes on to boil in milk and water) skim well when nearly