TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 35 Stewed Steak, with Tomatoes. U lb. Steak, cut thick, 3 Tomatoes, a few piscuit Crumbs, Pepper, Salt. Have the steak cut very thick; make 2 deep cuts in it, and hll with the crumbs. Tut it in the saucepan, and cover with the tomatoes, cut in slices; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over. Allow it (o' stew very slo'wly 2 hours, Australian Stew. Cut up steak in neat square pieces, stew in the usual way slowly, adding pepper and salt, a green apple sliced, a little curry, and small spoonful jam. Serve hot, with border of boiled rice. Boiled Tongrue. Smoked tongue is best. Wash and soak all night. Put on in cold water, and boll 4 hours. Take out, peel and return to pot to cool. Cut in lengthwise slices, more tender so. The root may be chopped fine and seasoned like devilled ham. Jellied Tongfue. 1 large boiled Tongue, It oz. Gelatine dissolved in i pint Water, 2 teacups rich browned Veal Gravy, 1 bunch savoury Herbs, 1 tablespoon Sugar, 1 tablespoon burnt Sugar for colouring, 1 tablespoon. Vinegar, 1 pint boiled Water, 1 hard-boiled 15gg. Put together gravy, sugar, vinegar, burnt sugar dissolved in a little cold water, and the herbs. Add to this the gelatine, then the boiling water, and strain through cheese-cloth. Let the jelly cool and begin to thicken. Wet a plain mould with cold water, put a. very little jelly in bottom, and arrange slices of hard-boiled egg in it. Pour in a little more jelly, then a layer of tongue, more jelly and tongue, and so on till mould is full. Cover and set in cool place till quite firm. Remains of cold tongue or fowl may be used so, only using less jelly. To turn it out, dip mould in hot water for an instant, invert upon a. dish, and garni.sh with parsley. In serving, cut with thin knife per- pendicularly. Veal or Beef Roll. 1 lb. of Steak or Veal, i lb. fat Ham or Bacon, \ lb. Bread Crumbs, J of a Nutmeg, grated well; Salt and Pepper to ta.ste; a little'Cayenne is an improvement. Mince and mix well together. Add 2 eggs and roll in the shape of a long sausage. Tie it very tightly in a cloth previously wetted and floured. Put it in hot water and boil 3 hours. When quite cold, glaze well all over and serve. Make the glaze with a dessertspoonfid of gelatine dissolved in pint of water and a little browning; or, if served hot, roll it in bread crumbs instead of glazing it. Bewitched Veal. Chop vary fine .3 lb. of Veal taken from the leg, 4 oz. Pork, 1 breakfastcupful of Bread Crumbs, 3 teaspoonfuls Salt, 1 teaspoonful black Pepper a dash of Cayenne, a pinch of powdered Cloves. Mix up with tile whole 2 raw eggs, well beaten ; put into a niould; cover closely, and steam 2 hours. Then put the mould into tlie oven for a short time to dry, with the door open. "When cold, turn out and cut in thin slices, garnishing with sprigs of parsley and transparent slices of lemon.