TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 39 Savoury Chicken. Skin the chicken, taking away all fat, &o. Cut in pieces about •1 in. long. Have ready in stewpan 1 lb. onions, previously fried in butter. Put chicken in, with ^ lb. butter, a few cloves, a pinch of ground ginger, pepper, and salt. Mix well, and add J pint new milk. Stew gently 1\* lionrs, adding a. little milk if re(piire<l. Seiwe with boiled I'ice. Timbale of Chicken. J lb. Macaroni, 1 Egg, i Chicken, a littlo Milk, 2 o.^,. Ham, Pei)per and Salt, 1 teacnpful Bread Crumbs, a little Ketchup. After boiling the macaroni, line a plain shape or bowl with it. Chop or mince up chicken and ham ; add broad crumbs, salt, and pepper; beat iq) (he egg with the milk and ketchup, and mix all thoroughly. The mixture should be moist. Put carelnlly intO' shape, cover with butticred paper, and steam lor 1 hour. Country Captain (Indian Recipe). ' Cut fowl or rabl)it in small pieces. Shred onion small, and fry in butter. Sprinkle fowl with Hour, sail, and curry powder, and fiy brown. Then add pint of stoclc. Slew slo-wly to half quantity, and serve with rice. Slice largo Spanisli onions veiy fine, and blanch, and slice 30 almonds. Pry both to a pretty light brown, and until quite dry. Spriirkle these over the above stewed chicken or rabbit. Ducklingfs and Green Peas. lloast a couple of ducklings in an oven, for an hour, then put a tablespoouful of buttei- in a largo stewpan and brown it slowly, dredging in Hour and stirring with a wooden spoon until it browns; ]uit a breakfastcupful of water in, and a little salt and pepjrer; rvhen it boils up lay in the ducklings and a q\iantity of green peas; let all stew, closely covered, for another hour; dish with the peas round the ducklings. Stewed Duck. 1 Duck, 2 Onions, Sage, Thyme, Butter, Flour, Pepper, Salt, Beef Gravy, Hripiuiig Brown duck and fry onions 20 minutes. Pour out dripping, put in beef gravy to cover duck, add hetbsi minced, :iud simmer till tender. Strain, and thicken gravy with a little butter and flour. Bring to boil. Pour 1-^ pints green peas round duck. Boiled Fowl. Prepare fowl nicely and place in well-buttered paper. Place in boiling water, with 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, teaspoonful salt, a bunch parsley, and 1 bay leaf. Simmer gently according to size; a chicken about ^-hour, a full-sized fowl 1 hour. For sauce which is poured over fowl, melt 1 oz. butter, stir in gradually 1 oz. flour, add i pint milk. Thicken and add the chopped- up Avhites of 2 hard-boiled eggs. Grate the yolks over sauce on top of fowl and garnish round with parsle}'. Galantine of Fowl. Take fowl, lay it on its breast and cut straight down the middle, then as close to the bone as possible, so as to take all meat from bones, leaving only xving bones. , Then prepare stufSfig—I lb. saus- ages, small tin mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful parsley, white pepper, and