TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 211 Tablet. 4 tei^oupfuls Sugar, 2 tablospoonfuls Syrup, 1 teacupful Water. Boil for about 20 minutes, then add 2 tablespoonfuls butter, and stir almost all.the time till it is ready (which you know by seeing it become sugary). Take it off rather sooner than you would for toffee, and add 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon immediately before pouring. Essence of vanilla or ginger may be substituted for the lemon. Treacle Toffee. Rub the saucepan with butter and pour in as much treacle as may be wanted. Let it boil gently until a small portion will break between, the teeth after being thrown into cold water. When this ^joint is reached, take pan at once off fire, or it will quickly acquire a burnt taste. Pour on a buttered dish, and when cool roll it into sticks, and fold in clean white paper. The toffee may bo flavoured with essence of peppermint, almond, or lemon, and a Jit,tie cayenne pepper thrown into treacle toffee is an excellent cure for a cough. Toffee (1). 4 teacupfuls Sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls Syrup, 1.1 tcacupfuls Water. Boil for about 20 minutes, then add 2 tablespoonfuls butter, and boil till it hardens whcai dropped in cold water. Immediately before pouring, stir in a teaspoonful essence of lemon, and pour into a butr tered tin. Toffee (2). l-i lb. Brown Sugar, 2 oz. Butter, i teaspoouful Cream of Tartar, i teacupful Cold Water, Essence of Lemon or Vanilla. Put all the ingredients into saucepan, let boil for 10 minutes, without stirring. Test if crisp by putting a little of the mixure in cold water; if not hard, boil a little longer, then pour into a buttered tin, mark into squares when cool. Tlie addition of blanched and chopped almonds added after boiling is a great improvement. Toffee (3). 6 lb. Brown Sugar, pxit in brass pan with 1 ])int Cold Water. Boil briskly for 2 minutes, add ^ lb. fresh butter and boil 10 minutes longer, when it should be brittle. Ti-y with cold water, then pour on buttered dish, and when half cold mark into diamonds. Toffee (4). 1 lb. Sugar, 1 lb. Treacle or Syrup, i lb. Butter, a few Almonds, a little more than 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar. Boil over brisk fire for 20 minutes, stirring all the time. Almond Toffee. Make same way as plain toffee. Blanch 4 oz. almonds by throw- ing in salted boiling water for 2 minutes. Then halve, dip in cold water, dry in cloth, and add to toffee just before it is done. Everton Toffee. 1 lb. Castor Sugar, 1 teacup Water, i lb Butter, 6 drops Essence of Lemon. Put water and sugar in pan, beat butter to a cream, and when sugar is dissolved add butter, and stir over fire till it s^s quickly, when a little is tried on a butter dish. Add essence of lemon, and pour on dish, marking in sq^uares, when cool,.