188 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Nourishing Drink for Invalids. 2 tablespooufuls Carolina Eice, 1 tablespoonful Muscatel Raisins, pinch of Salt, li pints Water. Wash the rice and stone the raisins; put all into' an enamelled pan, and simmer for 2 hours; strain through a sieve. When recjuired, take ^ teacupful of the rice jelly and same quantity of sweet milk; Avarm in a pan until the jelly is melted; strain, and serve hot. A nice pudding- can bo made A\dth the steAved rice and raisins. Mix in a beaten egg; sAveeten to taste; pour into a buttered pudding dish; grate a little nutmeg over the top; bake 10 to 15 minutes. Oatmeal Cream. To 1 small teacupful milk stir in a teaspoonful oatmeal, add tea- spoonful dissolved Plasmon. Boil 4 minutes. Strain. Flavour with lemon and serA^e with toast. Midlothian Oat Flour (Scott’s). 2 heaped dessertspoonfuls oat-flour and 2 teacups cold water. Mix vei'y smoothly the oatflour in a little of the cold Avater, and stir mixture into the rest of the Avater in pan just before it reaches boiling point. Stir briskly for 10 minutes, and be SAire you have no. lumps. Salt to taste, and serve very hot. Onions Are a most valuable vegetable, but the acrid oil they contain has such unpleasant effects that many people have to avoid them. If cooked as follows, these effects are reduced to a minimum : Boil for ^ hour, pour the Avater aAvay, then init intO' freshly boiling Avater and cook till tender, A\'ith the lid off. They aaIII take much longer if lid is left on. Onions. (Supper dish for hoarseness or soreness of chest.) Peel and Avash 8 large onions, and throAv into pan of boiling AAater Avith 2 oz. salt. Boil 1 hour. Take up with Avooden spoon on flat dish. Put inverted pie-dish over, and drain Avater aAA'ay. Serve with cold Imtter, and pepper and salt, or potatoes baked in their skins, or Avith bread and butter. Onion Porrid&e. (A simple remedy for a Cold.) 3 Spanish Onions, 1 Apple, 3 Cloves, i teaspoonful Sugar, ^ do. Salt, ^ tea- cupful Water, a good dash of White Pepper. Peel onions and put them in a boAvl of Avater along Avith a piece of washing soda the size of a walnut; this clraAvg out the essential oil Avhich causes onions to disagree Avith so many peoi^le. After steep- ing for"25 minutes in soda Avater, wash Avell in clear water and pare off any green parts, then cut up into small pieces and put into a sauce- pan with the apple pared, cored, and also cut small; add the water and seasoning, and simmer until onions are quite tender. This is a light supper dish and should be sen-ed Avith “breakfast” biscuits or crisp toa.st. Remedy for* Exhaustion. The finest knoAvn remedy consists of 2 fresh eggs beaten up in a little Avarm water and sweetened to taste. In hour the Avhole of the egg thus taken is turaed to nourishment, but if taken in millc the egg becomes curdled, because the caseine curdles the albumen in the egg.