TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 12G raisins and currants, or prunes and figs, or dried apples, uieasured after soaking and chopping. Baked Plum Pudding'. It is not generally known that plum puddings are very nice baked instead of boiled. The pudding should be put into a deep buttered basin, and covered with a plate (no cloth required), and allowed to bake in a slow oven for four or five hours, and it should then turn out like a stgaraed pudding. Prince of Wales Pudding. 1 breakfastcupful riour,. 2 tablespoonfuls Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls Sugar,- ^ teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, \ teaspoonful Cream of Tartar, i tea- spoonful Cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls Strawberry Jam, a little Milk. Mix dry ingredients (rubbing butter in flour), stir in jam and milk. Put into buttered dish, and steam for 2 hours. Prune Pudding. i- lb. Prunes, 2 dessertspoonfuls Brown Sugar, a piece of Lemon Bind, 2 oz. Flour, pint Milk, i oz. Butter, and 2 Eggs. Put prunes in pan with a little cold water, lemon rind, and sugar, and cook till soft. Stone, crack a few stones and take kernels to flavour. Mix the flour gradually to milk ; add eggs to batter, and beat well. Add prunes and butter broken in small pieces. Pour into buttered mould and steam. 1| hours. Turn o\it, and pour the syrup which prunes were cooked in, over and around. Stewed Prunes. 1 lb. common Prunes, ^ lb. Sugar, 1 small Lemon. Soak prunes 2 hours in warm water. Bring a breakfastcupful water, lemon juice, and rind of ^ lemon and sugar to the boil. Add prunes, stew gently 1 hour, i^ick out lemon rind and serve. Queen of Puddings. 1 pint of Bread Crumbs, 1 pint of Milk, i large cupful of Sugar, tbe rind of 1 Lemon grated, and the yolks of 2 Eggs. Beat the whole well together, and put into a buttered dish and bake in a slow oven until quite set. Take out of oven, and spread any kind of jam over the top, laot too thickly. Beat the whites of eggs well together and spread lightly oyer the jam, then put back in oven to turn a light,brown. Railway Pudding. Butter a shallow tin. Mix a teacTip of flour, one of sugar, and 2 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix in a bowl 3 eggs and 1 tablespoon milk. Mix all well together. Pour into the tin and bake for 20 minutes. Raspberry Pudding. 4 oz. Butter, 4 oz. Castor Sugar, aud 4 oz. Flour. Beat to a cream, add 2 tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam, and as much carbonate of soda as will lie on a sixpence. Add 3 eggs well beaten up. Put in a well-buttered mould, and boil 3 hours. Raspberry Charlotte. 1 lb. Bread Crumb?, 2 lb. Easpberries. (See that there are uo insects in hollow of Easpberries.) Butter pie-dish ; cover bottom well with crumbs, then raspberries, then sprinkling of sugar. Repeat till dish is full, ending with crumbs. Place a few little bits of butter over. Cover with plate and bake for ^ hour. Then remove plate arid lightly brown.