TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 233 (lamp flannol. Then apply glue, cto., to the cleaned linoleum with a food piece of flannel. Do not tread on. it till dry, and^ it will leave a nice polish, which lasts/ well with even the wear of a family. Or, clean with paraffin, putting 2 tablespoonfiils in the water it is washed ^_ith— no soap. Linoleum so treated will last well and retain its original colour. Tiles, after washing, will keep clean much longer if wiped over with paraffin. A Cheap Flour-Stain. PeiTnanganate of potash is a cheap and effectual stain for board floors. Add ^ oz. of permanganate to a quart of water, and use this to paint over the floor, which must first have been thoroughly scrubbed and allowed to dry. Repeat the process if it is not as dark as you want it, and then let dry, and polish with bees’ wax and turpentine. To Clean Paint. Squeeze clean cloth out of hot water, dip it in wliiting, and with this rub the paint till all dirt is removed. Rinse well with clean water, diy with a soft cloth, and polish with a chamois leather. Paint cleaned in this way looks like new, and the whiting will not injure even the most delicate colours. To remove the smell of paint, put a pail of water in the room and change it every few hours. The water will absorb the smell of the paint, but it will do the work more quickly if a sliced onion or lemon, a large piece of camphor or ammonia, or a handful of hay, be put into it. For washing a varnished wall, a little melted glue, or dissolved glue size, put in the water, is a great improvement. Cement for mending; Hot Water Cans, leaks in Stoves, Kettles, or Iron Articles. Mix equal quantities of glycerine and litharge (oxide of lead) to the consistency of thick cream. It resists the action of hot or cold water, and almostl any degree of heat. Only mix a little at a time, veiy thick, more like putty than cream. Let the article when mended harden for a week before using. Glass. New glass shordd never be used until ti'eated so that it is rendered, as near as possible, unbreakable. Place tumblers, &o., in a lai'ge pan, pack them round with hay, and then fill with cold water. Add handful salt. Place the pot on the fire and then bring it slowly to boiling point. Then remove from the fire, and stand it aside until cold. Broken glass or earthenware can be easily mended by this simple recipe. Tie broken edges together so that they will stay in place. Do not wash or wet them after they are broken, but put them in a flat kettle and cover with skim milk. Put kettle on fire and let sim- mer for 2 hours or more. Then remove, and when cold t ke the ware out carefully and put it on one side for a month, when it will be ready for use. How to Make a splendid Substitute for Glue. Take a small piece of cold potato, which has been boiled, and rub it up and down a piece of paper with your fingers for about five