TRIED EAVOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. D8 half a niiiiute. Take off shells. Cut cnist off toast, and butter. Chop up whites of eggs and lay on top of toast, then the other half of cheese, a little pepper and salt, and one tablesiwonful of sauce. Put other piece of toast on top of this, and put the rest of sauce over. Hub yolks through sieve over top. Sprinkle a little parsley over and a little salt and pepper. Heat in oven for a minute or .so." Sheep’s Tong'ues. 2 Sheep’s Tongues, 1 tahlespoonful Flour, 1 dessertspoonful Minced Parsley, 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls Milk, Salt. Well wash tongues in wann water, paying particular heed to the mots. Lay them in pan with just enough water to cover them. Bring to the boil, add the salt, and simmer from 1 to 1| hours.' ] 0 minutes before ready, add parsley, and the flour mixed to a sinooth batter with the milk and simmer 7 minutes. Take out the tongues, divide each one leiigthwise, and pour over the sauce and serve. A few rolls of grilled bacon are a nice addition. Tongue Toast. Grate finely the remains of a tongue and mix with it the yolk of an egg or a. spoonful of cream, finely chopi^ed parsley, and peiDper. Make it very hot, but not boiling, and pour it on fingers of welhbut- tered toast. Sprinkle thickly Avith fine bi'ead crumbs, and brown liefore fii e. Welsh Rare-bit. i lb. Cheddar Cheese, 1 Egg, 2 tablespooufuls Milk, and i teaspoouful Mustard. Have ready two slices of nice buttere<l toast, about ^ inch thick. Grate the cheese and put into a small pan, drop the egg in, add the milk and mustard, alloAving all to come to boiling point. Pour it on t he buttei'ed toast, and cut into nice little squares. White Puddings. i lb. Oatmeal, crisped in oven; { lb. Liver parboiled and grated; and 2 oz, finely chopped Beef Suet. Put in skins got at butcher’s, and boil or steam 1 hbui-j pricking Avell all over to prevent bursting. Walnut Cutlets. 4 oz. Bread Crumbs, 1 oz. shelled Walnuts, 1 teaspoon Butter, 1 teaspoon grated Onion, ^ teaspoon Flour, 1 teacup Milk, white of 1 Egg, 1 Lemon. Hun bread "crumbs and skinned walnuts through a nut mill ol‘ bread grater. Then mix Avith butter and onion. Melt a large tea- spoonful butter in pan Avith the flour and add the milk gradually. When it boils, add the other ingredients, pepper, and Avhite of egg. Hemove from fire, add teasixioii. lemon juice. Stir Avell, and turn out on dish to cool. Shape into cutlets, dip in Avhite of egg and bread crumbs, and fi"}’. SerA'e Avith bread sauce or tomato sauce.