/ 114 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Empress Pudding. i oz. rice simmered in 1 quart milk till soft and milk is absorbed. When cooled a little, beat in 2 eggs with sugar and flavouring. Put . in buttered pie-dish in laj^ers, with jam between. Bake in moderate oven a pale brown. Stewed fruit may be substituted for jam. 0 Essex Pudding. ■l oz. Sugar, 3 oz. Butter, 5 oz. Flour, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder, 2 Eggs, Milk, Jam. Beat butter and sugar to cream; add flour gradually, the eggs well beaten, and enough milk to make it of the consistency of thick cream. Butter mould, spread jam round it, and pour in mixture. Steam 1-^ hours. Eve’s Pudding. J lb. each of Suet, Raisins, Currants, and Sugar, ^ lb. Bread Crumbs. Apples, chopped fine, a little grated Lemon Peel and 2 Eggs. Mix well together, and steam in buttered basin 3 liours. Serve with lemon sauce. OR, Take 4 large apples, pare, slice, and put in buttered pie-dish. Take 2 eggs, their weight in butter, sugar, and flour. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add flour, then well-beaten eggs. Pour over gpples, and bake for 40 minutes. Farina Fritters (Yankee recipe). Mix 2 heaped tablespoonfuls cooked farina with milk into a batter with a little salt. Have ready jjan with good boiling dripping. Drop in spoonfuls of batter and cook till firm, then turn to other side. Lift nut, strew sugar over, and serve hot. Fig Pudding (1). ^ lb. Bread, ^ lb. Suet, :} lb. Figs, 2 oz. Sugar, 1 Egg, teacupful of Milk, Nutmeg. Figs and suet cliopped fine; butter mould. Boil o liours. .Fig Pudding (2). 1 lb. Figs, 2 oz, Apples, i lb. Bread Crumbs, pinch Salt, 1 oz. Flour, 3 oz. Sugar, 2 oz. Suet; pinch Baking Powder, grate of Nutmeg, a little Milk, - and 1 Egg. • CTop suet finely ; rub suet, flour, crumbs, and sugar together ; add cliopped fruit, and mix well. Add nutmeg, then egg, and a little milk. Mix to a soft lump. Put into greased mould. Cover with buttered paper, and steam 2 hours. Fig and Custard Pudding. i lb. Figs, i- pint Milk, \ lb. Sugar, 2 oz. Bread Crumbs, and n pinch of Nutmeg; 2 Eggs. Split the figs, and line a plain tin mould with tliem, .seed side of figs to mould. Beat up the eggs, add milk, sugar, crumbs,'and nut- meg. Pour tills into tlie mould very carefully ; cover with grea.sed paper. Steam 2 hours. Five Minutes Pudding. 3 tablespoonfuls Flour, 3 dessertspoonfuls Sugar, 1 de.ssertspcwnful Baking Powder, 2 Eggs. Mix well together; then spread in a buttered tin. Bake for 5 minutes, then spread a thin layer of jam, and roll it up. Serve with custard.