TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 195 on foundation very quickly a,nd evenly witli broad knife, wetting knife with hot water from other basin, and putting a few drops over poultice when finislied, to prevent it sticking. Lay the muslin over it, turning the edge all round well over the calico to prevent linseed com- ing out. Have ready the oiled silk, lay the poultice on it, calico side downwards, then double poultice over, covered with the oiled silk. It will keep veiy hot some minutes. Put on wann platter, and take to bedside; before putting on patient, unroll the poultice, and try the heat with the back of the hand; if bearable, poultice is not too hot. In laying the poultice on, apply the lower edge first. A poultice covered with oiled silk (it must quite cover it) will remain hot quite four hours. The poultice must not be made too thick or dry, or it will bo heavy and uncomfortable, and, as in the case of pneumonia with high temperatui’o, will increase the temperature instead of help- ing to lower it, as a light and wet poultice will do, by means of evapor^ ation; do not pour water on meal, or poultice will be heavy. It is a good thing first to rub with hot olive oil the part of skin where poultice is to be applied; and if part poulticed is tender from frequent poultie- iti^, &o., put layer of flannel between it and skin. If constant potil- ticing is necessaiy, have two pieces of oiled silk, as it doubles up and contracts in a very tiresome way. When it does so, )ilac6 in a basin of tepid or cold water and gently pull straight; then wipe diy and it is ready for future use. If from accident, a patient has to wait some time after poultice is remoiTd before another is ready, cover the part affected with cotton wool or warm flannel. Mustard Poultice. Mix half and half mustard and linseed (dry), and sprinkle into the water the same as fora linseed poultice. (3 tablespoonfuls of each will make a good-sized poultice.) Porridge Poultice. (Clieaper than linseed, and almost as good.) Have boiling water in pan, and stir in oatmeal; to be just thick enough to pour out; ready in ten minutes. Potato Poultice. Boil 4 or 5 potatoes in their skins till soft, put them in an old white cotton stocking, and ciaisli with the hands to flatten. Apply at once to the throat. Excellent for sore throat, &c. Buchanan’s Prune Paste. INVALUABLE IN THE HOME. J lb. Prunes, i lb. Brown Sugar, 1 oz. Senna Powder. Place prunes with sugar and J pint of water in pan. Stew for one hour, watching to maintain the quantity of syrup in pan by adding more water if necessary. Pom- syrup into jelly can. Allow to stand until lukewantij then stir into it tlie senna powder until it becomes a fine paste. 'This forms a most agreeable medicine to the taste, easily carried when travelling, and invaluable in chronic constipation if taken at bed-time, and it is not a purgative. Children all like it. Dose for children, ^ teaspoonful; adults, one teaspoonful.