20 TRIED FAYOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. gradually the milk; when this sauce has boiled and thickened, season it with salt and pepper and strain. Remove the skin and bones from some cooked whit© fish, divide it into flakes and heat it in the sauca Take the potato case from the oven, put on a hot dish and fill It with the fish aud scatter a little chopped parsley over the top. / Fish Entree. Some fillets of Sole, washed and dried; make a mixture of 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, i tin Button Mushrooms, squeeze of Lemon, Salt aud Pepper, yolk of Egg. Melt butter and flour; add 1 gill fish stock or milk; add mush- rooms, chopped, and yolk of egg, etc. Spread mixture over soles, and double over. Lay on well-buttered tin. Put squeeze of lemon over each, cover witli bread crumbs; bake in moderate oven for 6 minutes. Wlien ready, take any mixture left and pile in centre of a hot dish. Put pieces of fish round it, and pour white sauce round. Sprinkle over top of ©ach fish chopped parsley and pepper. A Gateau de Poisson. H Ih. Whit© Fish, J teaspoonful Salt, ^ teaspocnful Pepper, ^ tcacupful Bread Crumbs, 1 oz. Butter, 1 teaspoonful Anchovy, J teacupful Milk, 2 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Boil fish. Remove skin and bone and chop it up finely. Put it into a basin and add bread, parsley, all the seasonings, the butter (melted), the eggs (well beaten), and the milk. Mix thoroughly. Butter a plain mould. Pour in the mixture; cover with a gi*eas^ paper, and steam for f hour.. Serve with a good white sauce. Haddock Canapes. Take the flesh of 1 raw dried haddock, free from all bones, and pound it in a mortar with 1 or 2 oz. buttei’, then mb it through a wire sieve and stir it over the fire, adding a little cream and. a dash of cayenne; then pour it on rounds of buttered toast and seiwe very hot. Haddock Croquettes. IJ oz. Blitter, oz. Flour, J teaspoonful Pepper, 1 teaspoonful Lemon Juice, i gill Milk, ^ gill Cream, 1 dried Haddock (about 2 lb.), 7 fried croutons of Bread. Put haddock in basin, and cower with boiling water for 10 minutes, when skin and bones are easily removed. Break into small pieces. Melt butter in pan. Stir in flour smoothly, adding pepper, but no salt. Add milk and cream gradually, and stir till boiling. Boil 3 minutes, then add lemon juice and haddock. Pile mixture on fried croutons, and garnish with parsley. Haddock (Smoked and Rice). 3 oz. Patna Eice, 1 Haddock (Aberdeen), 1 oz. Butter, Milk, 1 oz. Flour. Boil rice till soft. Skin and bone haddock, and cut it into small pieces. Stew it in enough milk to cover it. Thicken milk with butter and flour, dish on top of rice, and gai’uish with parsley. See that the rice is hot and dry. Haddock (Stuffed) (1). stuffing.—2 oz. Bread, 1 oz. Hugon’s Suet, 1 dessertspoonful chopped Parsley, about i cup Milk and Water mixed, to soak bread. Salt and Pepper. Soak bread till soft, then drain, and squeeze diy as possible. Beat well with fork till like bread emmbs. Add shred suet and nick with knife till all falls to pieces. Add parsley and seasoning, and mix well. Rub a little salt up back-bone of fish, which makes it