TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 235 always be applied when sore throats are prevalent, or diphtheria or typhoid is in a house. Mixture for Destroying Flies &c. 1 pint infusion of quassia, 4 oz. moist sugar, and 1 oz. pepper. Mix well and stand about in saucers. A little tui-pentine sprinkled among the clothes or put about the closets will make moths flee, and exterminate cockroaclies. It will take spots out of muslin, and if a tablespoonful be added to a boilerful of clothes it will whiten them much. It is good for a cut or burn. Fly Papers. 1 oz. Eesin, 1 oz. Castor Oil; add a few drops Iloiiey and a small piece Bees^-Wax. Melt together, and spread on firm papers. Try a little first, to see if proper consistency, when cool. If not hard enough, add a trifle more resin. Cleaning Hints. Old Brass may be cleaned to look like new by pouring strong ammonia on it, scrubbing with a scmbbing binsh, and then rinsing in clear water. Chased Brass Goods, such as are generally known as Benares work, are easily cleaned in this way; Wash in hot soap and water, and dry thoroughly. C\it a lemon in half, and with it mb the brass. When it looks clean, rinse in warm water, dry, and tlien polish well with a chamois leather. Chased work should never bo cleaned with any kind of powder. To Clean Mardle Washstands.—Take 2 ounces of washing soda, 1 of powdered pumice-stone, and 1 of powdered chalk. Pound togeth- er, and then pass through a sieve. Take some of the powder and make it into a paste with cold water, rub it well over the surface of the marble, and leave 24 hours, wash off with soap and water. To Clean Oxidised Silver.—Dip a rag in saturated solution of sulphate of soda and rub. Silver will be clean in a few seconds. Scour badly-stained Knives by dipping raw potato in bath-brick. To CtEAN Knives.—Mix a tiny bit of carbonate of soda with bath- brick. They will polish more easily. To Revive and Preserve Leather.—1 part best vinegar, 2 parts boiled linseed. Bottle and shake till like cream. Apply with soft rag, and polish with vei7 soft duster. Cleans leather, softens, and pre- vents it cracking. Clean Copper Kettles with a cut lemon dipped in salt. Rinse with clean water, and polish with soft cloth. Wash alabaster figures with borax and water, alloiving ^ oz. borax to 1 pint water. Diy carefully with old piece, of soft silk. Wash bmshes and brooms every 6 weeks in mixture of 2 table- spoonfuls ammonia to 4 gallon of water. Let the bristles stand ^ hour in the water. Rinse thoroughly and hang in cool place to dry. Always keep them hanging on nail, so that bristles do not touch the floor. Magic Polishing Cloth. Take one gallon gasolene, two pounds whiting, and half an ounce oleic acid; mix and shake up well. Pieces of woollen cloth soaked in this mixture, wning out, and hung up to dry are said to put a fine