TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 33 Brea-St of Mutton. TaJie out bones aud fat. For mixture, take 6 tablespoonfuls grated bread, 1 do. parsley, 1 teaspoon herbs, 1 small onion, ^ tea- spoon salt, I do. pepper, 1 egg, and a little milk. Roll up mutton after spreading this mixture over j tie. Brown in stewpan with a little dripping; add 1 onion and breakfastcup water. Stew 1-^ hours. Lucerne Mutton. Bone a well-hung loin of mutton ; scatter over it pepper and salt and a little pounded mace, and set aside till next day. After having pared off some of the fat, lay the joint on a board, fat downwards, and beat it as you would a steak. Have some good hare stuffing ready, and spread a layer of it over the meat, then a layer of sliced ham. Roll it up, bind tightly with tape, and sew up the ends. Roast till about half cooked, and let it then drain free of fat. Place the meat in a saucepan with some gravy, and simmer it for 1^ hours. Dish the joint, taking the fat off the gravy. Thicken with a little butter rubbed in flour, and strain over the joint. Serve stewed spiced prunes with this dish. Roast Shoulder of Mutton (with Tomatoes). stuffing—Teacupful of Bread Crumbs, i teacupful of Suet, tablespoouful of Parsley, do. mixed Herbs, grated Rind of Lemon and the Juice, i tea- spoonful of Salt, of Pepper rather less, yolk of Egg. Place all diy ingredients in small basin; mix thoroughly, and add lemon juice and egg. Wipe mutton with a hot water cloth, talvo out bones, and spread stuffing; sew up, lacing, and leaving both ends to draw out when cooked. Oven should bo veiy hot. . Place on tin (with double dish, under one filled with Avater to absorb gases from meat), pour dripping over it, and baste frequently until the last hour, when it should be allowed to diw and become crisp. Place best side doAvn. Cook 20 minutes to each lb., and 20 over (Avhite meat, 30, and 30 overj. Tomatoes should be sprinkled Avith salt after skinning them, and baked on .a slightly greased tin 6 or 10 minutes. Dip in hot water to remove skin. Gravj'—J gill of brown stock, or Avarm water coloured with ketchup ; seasoning of salt and pepper. Steamed Mutton. Put the meat into a basin, and put it into a saucepan with enough boiling Avater to reach half-way up the basin. Add pepper and salt to the meat, and allow ^ hour to each lb. When cook^ it wiU be beautifully tender. Send to table Avith caper sauce made from gravy that will be in basin. Scotch Potted Meat. Boil an ox cheek and tAvo calf’s feet (fore feet best). Stew slowly until meat comes off' bones. Strain and chop meat finely. Season highly with pepper and salt. Mix with-the gravy, boil again for I hour, and then put into moulds. If properly made will keep a week. OR, A knuckle of hough (the knee joint) and 3 or 4 lb. of hough. Boil gently, strain, then mince meat finely-, season, add mince to gravy, boil 10 minutes, and put in moidds. • i;