76 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. SALADS, SAUCES, &c. SALADS. A salad dressing requires a spendthrift for oil, a judge for salt, a miser for vinegar, and a madman to mix them.—Spanish Proverb. French vinegar must always be used with oil. ' Malt vine- gar imparts a very disagreeable taste to the salad, for which the oil is often blamed. When preparing lettuce, place a little water in bottom of deep dish, and put in lettuces, then cover with muslin or thin calico, wetted, and they will keep_ beautifully crisp. Either tear up the lettuce with your fingers, or cut with a silver knife. Salad should not be too wet, and, when mixed, all the oil and vinegar should adhere to the lettuce, etc., -and not be in the bowl. Nothing but practice will teach the exact quantity of oil and vinegar to use. It is impossible to give the exact quantities, as the lettuce may vary in size. A salad in which cucumber is used will always be more moist than one made of lettuce alone. Beetroot Salad. 2 boiled Beetroots, 2 Eggs (hard boiled). Salt, Pepper, Oil, Vinegar. Cut the beetroot into slices, also the egg. Arrange alternately lound a glass disli.; season, and pour over a little oil and vinegar. Sei've in an hour. Celery Salad. 1 bead of Celery, \ lb. Cheese, 2 Eggs, Mayonnaise Sauce, Creas, Tomatoes. Cleanse the celer}'^, and cut it into small dice; cut the cheese into small squares, and mix them with enough sauce to cover them. Garnish with cress and slices of hard-boiled eggs and tomatoes. Green Salad. Celery, Radishes, Beetroot (cooked). Lettuce, or Endive, or Cress, Cucumber, 2 hard-boiled Eggs, a little Tarragon, Chervil, Vinegar, Salt, Pepper, Sugar, Salad Dressing. Divide the celery into shreds, cut up the lettuce, and slice the beetroot thin.. Mix all together, and season well. Pour a little dressing at the bottom of bowl, and pile the salad high in the centre. Garnish round with the heart of the lettuce, eggs sliced, and beetroot, and sprinkle with the tarragon. Lettuce Salad (1). 1 Lettuce, J Beetroot, J Spanish Onion, Cress, 1 Egg (boiled hard). Salt, Mustard, Cayenne, Vinegar, Olive Oil. Wash lettuce vei’y carefully and put on sieve to drain. Have ready a clean cloth, and tear up lettuce in convenient pieces and toss lightly in cloth till dry. Put a thin slice of onion, the size of a shil- ling, at the bottom of salad bowl, and mince it as finely as possible, and add the lettuce to this. ' Dust in some pepper and add 2 table- spoons oil and a dessertspoon vinegar. Mix vea'y thoroughly and serve at once. Lettuce Salad (2). 1 Lettuce, i Beetroot, i Spanish Onion, Cress, 1 Egg (boiled hard), Salt, Mustard, Cayenne, Vinegar, Olive Oil. Pound yolk of egg, salt, mustard, and cayenne together; add