TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 99 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, &c. BefoTe putting milk into pom to boil, put u little cold wciter in pan, bring to boil, and then add milk; this prevents milk catching. To prevent milk running over when it comes to the boil, put a spoon in. When you are cooking anything with milk, and require to add a little salt, do not put it in till the last, as it zvill curdle the milk. To scald milk, set it in a jug or basin in a pan of cold water over the fire- When the water boils the milk is scalded. Never leave a spoon in the saucepan if you wish the contents to cook quickly, and in any case a metal spoon should never be allowed to stand in a boiling saucepan contain- ing fruit or any acid. In steaming puddings keep them at a uniform heat all the time, and be careful not to lift the lid off' pan for the first hour. Never allow steamed puddings to boil too fast. If a souffle is boiled too fast it zvill be full of holes. Avoid lid on steamed pudding, mould, as that so seals pudding that none of the gas engendered by the cooking escapes, so it cannot be either so light or wholesome. • ’ ' , Batter puddings need quick oven. Buddings composed principally of milk and eggs should be very gently cooked, as a very strong heat will cause them to curdle. When beating whites of eggs add a tiny pinch of salt; this will make them froth much quicker, as zvell as make the froth stiffer. In stewing Fruit, prepare syrup first. Apportion water to your fruit as you desire much or little juice, and then sweetest to taste, generally \lb. sugar to i pint zvater. Bring to the boil, lay fruit in, simmer gently. When pouring hot fruit into a glass dish, place the latter on a zvet cloth, and place a spoon in dish. This prevents any chance of its cracking. Admiral Pudding^. 8 oz. Potatoes. 12 oz. Carrots, 4 oa. Sngar, 8 oz. Sultanas, 8 oz. Ploixr or Bre.ad Crumbs, 3 oz. Mixed Candied Peel, 4 oz. Albene or Suet. Pass carrots and potatoes 'when cooked tlirougli a sieve, add albene chopped fine anci flour or bread eimnbs. Mix veil, add other ingredients. Put in veil-greased mould, and steam,5 hours. Serve vitli lemon or sweet sauce. Almond Hasty Pudding. 2 oz. Sugar, 2 oz. Ground Almonds, 2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Bread Crumbs, 2 Eggs, 2 oz. chopped Candied Peel, and 1 gill Milk. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add almonds, crumbs, and warmed milk. Stir well, add peel, then well-beaten eggs. Pour into well-greased pie-dish, and bake 10 or li minutes, till firm to touch. Amber Pudding (1). 1 lb. of Csrrot boiled to a pulp, i lb. Bread Crumbs, 6 oz. .Suet, J lb. Stoned Knisins, i lb. Sultanas, J lb. Sugar, a little Salt, a little Nutmeg or Stiice. 2 Eggs, and Milk to make a thick batter. Boil 3 hours.