TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 224 To Wash Laces and Fine Muslins. After soaking them all night in cold water, squeeze (do not wring) out of water. Prepare a lather of soap mixture and tepid water, in proportion of 1 pint of the mixture to 1 gallon of water. Shako laces, &c., well in this, and let them soak for a few hours. Squeeze out and rinse first in warm water, then in several cold waters, some blue being in the last. To Clean White Lace. Roll it round an earthen jar, and stitch tlie ends together so that it shall not come unfastened. When all the lace is rolled put the jar on a plate, so that the lace will not burn when placed at the bottom of a saucepan, and cover the jar entirely with soap and water. Let this boil for some time, adding water from time to time. When the cleaning appears to be done, take out the jar and place it in a basin full of clean tepid water, which change repeatedly. When the water on rinsing is perfectly clear, take out the jar and allow the lace to dry in some place secure against dust, without touching it. If it is desired to give a yellow tint to the lace, plunge it, while still moist. In a decoction of tea, saffron, lime leaves or camomile, according to the shade of yellow required. If it requires to be stiffened it should be put, while still moist, in a weak solution of gum arabic. Lace should be ironed on the reverse side, on a board covered with some soft substance, with a piece of fine linen over it. By this means, when the designs are in relief, as in guipure, they are not crushed. Excellent Sta.rch for Laces, &c. Mix a small quantity of cornflour smoothly with cold water to proper consistency. To Wash Prints, &c. Wash quickly and well in two soapy waters, but do not rub soap on them. Into the clean cold rinsing water put a few drops of vitriol, just sufficient to make it taste a little tart. This fastens all colours except black, but black it fades. For black prints use salt in the rinsing water, or a little spirits of turpentine. Dry in the shade. Do not wash in too hot- water, dip into hot starch, nor iron with too hot iron. AVhen colours are very delicate, wash in bran and water, instead of soap and water. Pour ^ gallon boiling water on f lb. bran ; let it stand for some hours, then strain, and use lukewarm, without soap. Shake articles about, do not rub.^ Never dry coloured blouses in the sun or by the fire. Wash in tepid lather, only knead and squeeze. Rinse in cold water, and, don t use hot iion. Wash crewel Avork and embroidery witli the bran and Avater. The bran giA'^es sufficient stiffness without starch. To Wash Holland Dresses. After washing put some strong tea in the rinsing water. To Wash Silk Handkerchiefs. Soak in cold water | hour. If coloured, put a little salt m ^ water. Rub hems and folds in wai-m lather, not m the but in the palms of hands as 3-u Avould rub a ball of fl^r. Rep^L tbep rinse in several waters till no soap remains. If this is not at