21 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. more savoui-y. Then fill inside of fish, and pass skewer in and out to keep in place. Pass tail through eye sockets and put skewer through head to fasten down. Fill centre with remainder of stuffing. , (Somev- times the teeth of fish hold tail down.) Sprinkle with brown, bread crumbs, and put small pieces of suet on top. Bake in quick oven 15 to 20 min\ites, according to size. Serve on hot dish, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley, or serve with brown sauce. Haddock (Stuffed) (2). 2 or 3 Haddocks filleted and halved lengthwise, 2 teacups Bi;ead Crumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped Parsley, Pepper and Salt, and a little Milk. Put the bread oiiimbs, parsley, and seasoning into' a basin and moisten with the milk. Lay the haddoclvs on the table with the side from which the skin was removed uppermost. Take a handful of the stuffing, squeeze out any extra moisture, and lay on the middle of each piece of fish, doubling the ends over it. Lift into baking tin, put over some pieces of butter, and bake for 10 or 15 minutes in a brisk oven. or. Spread the fillets over with veal stuffing, roll up, sprinkle bread cnimbs over and small bits of butter. Bake 15 minutes, and pour brown sauce over. Haddocks and Tomatoes. Put a little stock or gravy in a pie dish, then layers of filleted haddocks, sliced tomatoes, and bread crumbs, seasoned with peppei' and salt, until the dish is full; cover w'ell with bread crumbs and pats of butter, and bake in moderate oven till nicply browned. Baked Halibut. SprinJile in bottom of deep dish about | teaspoon minced parsley, 1 tablespoon button mushrooms, § teaspoon lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Lay in 1 lb. halibut, add a few more mushrooms, a little parsley, 1 tablespoon ketchup, and 1 gill water. Lay a few pieces butter on top, and bake in a quick oven 15 minutes. Lift out fish, beat yolk of egg in a little cold water and teaspoon vinegar. Stir this into the sauce over fire till egg thickens in tin. Seiwe fish with sauce round. Broiled Herring^s. Split open, remove bones, and lay flat. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and place on grid. Broil quickly, first on one side, then the other. Lay on hot dish, and pour over this sauce—1 oz. butter dissolved, 1 teaspoon vinegar, tablespoon of minced parsley, and pinch of salt and pepper. Boiled Herring's. Clean the fish, and remove the eyes; put the tails through the eye-holes, and boil gently in water, to which ^ teacup of vinegar has been added. Fresh Herrings and Onions. Slice and fiy in a little fat, onions as for steak. Clean herrino-s and fry a light brown, with salt and pepper. Serve together hot delicious dish and tasty. Baked (or Potted) Herrings. ^ ^ Salt, i teaspoonful Pepper, i t^cupful Vinegar, 4 Hay Leaves, i teacupful Water. Clean the fish thoroughly; cut off the heads and tail-fins; take