218 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Furniture Polish (2). Jiqual proportions of linseed oil, turpentine, vineffar and snirifu of wine. Shake well before using. ^ ^ Bras*s Polish. 1 oz. Black Soap, 1 oz. Eock Ammonia, 1 oz. Eottenstone Mix well together in 1 gill of boiling water. Household Ammonia. 2 oz. Soft Soap, 1 oz. Pearl Ashes, 40 oz. Liquid Ammonia, 60 oz. Water. Dissolve soap and pearl ashes in water, and add ammonia. Ammonia Soap. Cut up 1 lb. white soap finely. Pour over 8 quarts boiling water. WTien quite melted and nearly cold, add 2 tablespoonfuls tuiqDentine and 2 gills liquid ammonia. Stir well and cover at once. Keep closely covered. Home-made Soap. 4i pints of Water, 6 lbs. of Pat (any kind), and 3 Ibe. Black American Ashes. Boil ^ hour. Stand 24 hours. Then boil 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. ® Soft Soap. 1 lb. stone potash to every lb.* of fat. (12 lbs. of each will make 1 barrel of soft soap.) Crush potash in small pieces. Put in a large kettle with 2 gallons water and boil till dissolved. Then add the fat, and, when melted, pour all into a tight barrel. Fill it up with boiling water, and for a week stir daily for 5 or 10 minute®. It will grad- ually become like jelly. To Make Hard Water Soft. Dissolve in 1 gallon boiling water 1;^ lbs. washing soda and \ lb. borax. In washing clothes, allow cup of this to every gallon of water. To Cure a Sheepskin. Rub skin well with twO' handfuls salt and lb. pounded alum. Take one-half of skin first; roll it up and let it lie for three days. Take some chalk and spread it over, and rub well with a sandy stone. Repeat on remainder of skin with rest of salt and alum, &c. Nail it up on door of outhouse or airy place to dry thoroughly, and afterwards wash it with soap and tepid water. Facts about Salt. It is wonderful how many things salt may be used for. It is a capital remedy for rheumatism if taken regularly in a glass of cold water before breakfast. A nightly gargle of salt and w^ater strength- ens a weak throat, and keejDS off bronchitis. When eaten with nuts it aids digestion, and it will relievo heartburn if taken in cold water. It is also a good thing for burns, and for stings of bee®, wasps, &c.; if a thick plaster of wet salt is tied on the place it will take the pain out. If the chimney gets on fire throw salt on the fire. If there has been anything bunit in the oven throw salt in, and it will take all smeU away. When soot drops on the carpet throw salt’on it, and then, sweep it up. If salt is thrown on a carpet before sweeping, the colours will be brighter. If it is rubbed on silver, china, or earthenware, it will take stains of teh, eggs, burns, &c., off. If applied at once it will take