200 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. with it, and about 20 minutes the first time, previous dav • ’us* all oranges, tie pips in muslin, and boil with them for ^ hour. “ ' 1 , Economical Marmalade. 1 lb. Marmalade Oranges, 1 Lemon, 6 lb. Sugar, 9 tumblers Cold Water. _ Cut the oranges and lemon in eight, lengthwise. Take away the pps. Slice as thinly as possible through both skin and pulp. Put in large basin and cover with the cold water, and set aside for 24 hours Tlien put on in jelly pan and boil 1 hour, or till the skins are tender, keeping always filled up with boiling water to the same quantity, as It evaporates while cooking. Set aside till cold, then add the sugar, and after it boils remove scum and boil 4 hour, or till it iellies. Costa from l|d tO' IM per lb. Household Marmalade. 4 lb. Seville Oranges, 2 lb. Sweet Do., 2 lb. Lemons. Slice the oranges and lemons without peeling them, removing all pips. To every lb. of fruit add 3 pints cold water, and let it stand 24 hours. Slowly boil 3 or 4 hours till the peel is quite tender. Let it stand tUl next day; then weigh it, and to every lb. of fruit add 1 lb. of crystallised sugar. Boil the whole till the syioip jellies and the peel is quite transparent (from ^ hour to 1 hour). Lemon Marmalade. Take any number of lemons; slice vei'y thin; remove only the seeds. To each lb. of sliced fiaiit, add 3 pints of cold water ; let stand 24 hours; then boil it until the chips are tender, pour it into an earthenware bowl, and let it stand till next day. Now weigh it, and to every lb. of boiled pulp add 1^ lb. of Imnp sugar; boil all together till the syrup jellies and the chips are rather transpai'ent. In taking out the pips, be careful to leave in all the white pith, as this goes towards making the syrup. Good Marmalade Jelly. 4 lb. Seville Oranges, 4 Lemons, 5 lb. Crystallised Sugar. Pare the rind very thin from 6 of the largest oranges and out into slender chips, and boil slowly for hour in a pint of water. Take away rind, white, and pips from the other oranges and lemons. Break up the pulp with your hands into 3 pints of water and boil gently ^ hour. Then strain through a bag. Put the chips and water they were boiled m to this liquid into the pan, with the sugar, and boil 30 minutes. Remove all scum. Test it on a plate to see if it sets as a jelly, before removing it from fire. Pour into pots and cover down hot. Orangfc-Jelly Marmalade. Wash 5 lb. of the best Seville oranges, peel them. Put the finest and thinnest skins in a pot of cold water with a pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, and draw to the side of the fire. Place a hair sieve in. a basin ; cut the oranges crosswise, remove the pips with a silver s^oon, and strain the juice on to the hair sieve through a wooden lemon squeezer. (No need to boil the juice twice when once will do.) Pull the pulp to pieces and put it into a preserving pan with (say) 4 quarts of water. Boil fast for 1 hour. Strain through a jelly bag without squeezing, and add to' the orange juice. Allow lb. sugar to each pint of liquid, and place on the fire to boil for f hour. By the time the pan is on the fire, the skins, which have been boiling, ought to be