TRIED FAYOVRITES COOKERY KOOK. 229 THINGS WORTH KNOWING AND REMEMBERING. A Breakfast-Table Barometer. A cup of hot coffee is an unfailing barometer, if you allow a lump of sugar to drop to' the bottom of the cup and watch the air bubbles arise without disturbing the coffee. If the bubbles collect in the middle, the weather will be fine; if they adhere to the cup, forming a I’ing, it will either rain or snow; and if the bubbles separate without assuming any fixed position, changeable weather may be expected. To loosen Articles that have become 'Gxecl If Tumblers become fixed, tap gently round with another tumbler, and like magic they will come apart. If a glass stopper is fixed, tap round it with another, and it will be loosened. If two flower-pots are fixed, tap with another flower-pot. If two iron screws, tap with piece of iron, and so on. You will always have the same result. The rule is, tap each article with one of similar kind. To Take Bruises out of Furniture. Wet the part with warm water. Double a piece of brown paper six times thick. Soak it and lay it on the place. Apply on that a hot flat iron until the moisture is evaporated. If the bruise has not gone, repeat the process till the dent or bruise is raised level with the surface. To Remove Ink Stains from Linen. Cut lemon, squeeze its juice at once upon place stained. Then rub with yellow soap and rinse in cold water. Effect almost magical, but must be done at once. If stain has been in linen or cotton some time, salts of lemon will erase stain. Wet part, stretch over bowl, rub salts over briskly, and rinse quickly. AnoUier way : —When ink is spilled on linen, try dipping in pure melted tallow. The hot tallow seems to absorb the ink, and after washing stain will be found to have disappeared. To Remove Ink on the Carpet, &c. Throw a quantity of salt on it, which will quickly absorb the ink. Take this up and put on more salt. Keep repeating, rubbing salt well into the ink spot, until ink is all talcen up by the salt. Then brush the salt out of the cai’pet. Or, talce up as much of the ink as possible with spoon or blotting paper. Pour cold sweet milk upon the spot, and take up with a spoon until the milk is only faintly tinged with ink, then wash with cold water and wipe dry. • Ink spilled on woollen covers may be taken out, if washed at once in cold water. Change the water often, till stain is gone. Stains on cotton goods need salts of lemon melted in boiling water. For mark- ing ink stains use chloride of lime and vinegar. Ink stains on printed leaves of books may be renovated by a solu- tion of oxalic acid in water. Blaoklbad SrAnsrs on carpets can be got rid of if covered with a paste of fuller’s earth and water and a little ammonia added. Leave