241 TRIED-FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. under a patient’s bed, is a great preventive of bed sores, and also keeps the patient in better health generally. A vessel of cold water placed near the head of a restl’ess sleeper will give quiet and relief. 1 oz. of alum added to rinsing water will make clothes practi- cally uninflammable—would only smoulder very slowly, never burst into flame. Care of the Hot-Water Bag:. These are not cheap things to buy, and are rather easily put out of order ; but this, in nine oases out of ten, is from carelessness, or not taking proper care of the bag. The reason of an indiarubber bag sticking is that it has been put away for the summer months with no air in it. When not using a bag, drain out the water, let it hang bottom side up for a while, then take it down and blow a little air into it, just enough to keep the inside from coming together, as it would if no air were in •, in which case the bag is quite sure to bo ruined in pulling it apart. If you happen to have a bag in this con- dition, put into it some hot water with a few drops of ammonia; let it remain a few minutes, then, with a thin, dull-edged piece of wood, try to separate the adhering sides very carefully. In preparing the hot-water bag for use, quite boiling water should not bo put into it, and neither should it bo more than half filled. After the water is in it, before putting in the stopper, carefully press out tho steam. This makes the bag softer, as it is relieved of the pressure the steam makes. Never fold a rubber bag after it has once been used. A flannel bag for covering the rubber is very useful, arid very easily made, and saves many a burn from contact with the hot bag. A book that should be in every home is Prof. Kirk’s Papers on Health. Accidents will happen, and reliable information, acted on promptly, would save many a life, and the simple common-sense advice on such subjects as Indigestion, Constipation, Pheumatism, Diet, etc., etc., would save a world of suffering. Tlie letters that come to the editor of this book from all over the world show the blessing Dr Kirk’s advice has brought to thousands. New illustrated edition, 3s; from all boqksellers. Simple and Painless Way to Extract Splinter. Nearly fill wide-mouthed bottle with hot water. Place injured part over mouth of bottle and press slightly. How to get off a tight Ring. Thread a needle, flat in the eye, with a strong thread, pass the head of the needle with care under the ring, and pull the thread through a few inches towards the hand. Wrap the long end of the thread tightly round the finger, regularly, all down towards the nail to reduce its size, then lay hold ,of the short end and unwind it. The thread repassing against the ring will gradually remove it from the finger. This never-failing method will remove the tightest ring with- out difficulty, however niuch swollen the finger may be. °