TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 203 Rhubarb and Raspberry Jam. 4 lb. Easpberries, 6 lb. Ebubarb, 8 lb. Sugar. Cut rhubarb in small pieces, put in a basin, and sprinkle sugar over each layer of rhubarb". Let it stand all night. Put in pan, bring to boil, then add raspberries, and boil J hour. Rhubarb Jelly. To make rhubarb jelly, get the rhubarb as red and fresh as possible. Wash and 'v.'ipe diy, but don’t peel. Cut it up in short pieces, and put in the presei*ving pan with one large cupful of water. Allow it to simmer gently until aU the juice is extracted, then strain through' a jelly-bag. Measure the juice, and to each breakfastcupful add one pound of good sugar. Stir gently-till it boils. Allow it to boil ten or twelve minutes, or until it appears firm, then pour into small jelly pots, and keep in a cool, dry place. Strawberry Jam (1). 1 lb. green Gooseberry juice to 4 lb. Strawberries. (Cheaper than Eed Currant juice, and firms jam nicely). Melt sugar in juice, then add fruit and boil 20 minutes or ^ hour. Strawberry Jam (2). 6 lb. Fruit, 6 lb. Sugar. Strew sugar over. Stand 24 hours. Boil 20 minutes. Veg'etabie Marrow Jam. 6 lb. Marrow, 6 lb. Sugar, 8 Chilli Pods, i teaspoonful Saffron, i oz. Boot Ginger. Pare the marro™ and remove pips, kz. Cut into squares. Then cover with water and let it stand 3 days, oliauging the water evepy day. Cover the bottom of the pan with water', add the sugar, pods, ifec., in muslin bag. Wlien you have a syrup, add marrow and boil ^ hour. Vegretable Marrow & Gimg'er Marmalade. 6 lb. Marrow, 6 llj. crystallised Sugar, G Lemons, 6 oz. Green Ginger, 2 oz. Eoot Ginger, 1 teaspoonful Cayenne. Pare the marrows and remove all pips, &c. Cut the marrow into large squares. Peel lemons and cut rind into shreds. Put marrow*, lemon juice, and shreds into a large pan with the sugar and ginger. L*t it stand 24 hours till the juice covei’s it. Boil till marrow is quite clear. Vegfetable Marrow Jam. 5 lb. of Marrow freed from pith and skin, 5 lb. Sugar, 2 large Lemons, 2 oz. bruised Ginger, J teaspoonful Cayenne. Cut up the marrow into little lumps about an inch long and ^ inch thick. Put them into a preserving pan after the sugar has melted in enough water to cover the bottom of the pan. Add the juice of the lemons; also the rinds, ginger, and cayenne tied in a muslin bag. Boil all steadily for 1 hour, and pour into pots in the usual way. Best made in September. VegretablG Marrow Preserve. 1 lb. raw Marrow, J lb. Apples, 1 teaspoonful Ground Ginger, juice of 1 Lemon, 1 teaspoonful Cinnamon, | lb. Loaf Sugar. Boil all for hour.