TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 179 Tripe (baked). To i lb. boiled Tripe, hIIow 4 slices of thin Bread soaked in some of the liquor in which the tripe was boiled, 1 Egg, a small piece of Butter or Dripping, 1 gill of the Liquor. Grease a pie-clish, lay in it one slice of the bread, then some of the tripe cut in small pieces, another slice of bread, and the remainder of the tripe; cover entirely with the two last slices of bread. Beat the egg well with seasoning of pepper and salt, and pour the gill of liquor over the bread. Break the rest of the dripping of clarified fat into small pieces, place them on the top, and bake for 15 minutes. Veal Broth. 1 lb. Knuckle Veal, pinch of Salt, li pints Cold Water, 2 oz. Pearl Barley. Wash the barley well in cold water, put it in a stew-pan with cold water to cover it, place it on the fire, and let it come to the boil. Re- move any scum from the top, and strain it—this blanches the barley. Take the meat, remove all fat and skin, and cut into small pieces. Veal Jelly. 1 lb. lean Veal, 1 breakfastcupful Water, Turnip size of an Egg, pinch Salt. Slice veal thinly, put in jar with slices turnip cut very thinly, salt, and water. Cover tightly with paper. Steam in jar 4 hours. Strain. Will be a strong jelly and very nourishing Veal Tea. 1 lb. Veal, 1 large cup Cold Water. Cut the veal up very small, sprinkle a very little salt over it. Put it into a jar, add the water, cover closely with paper; let it stand for i hour. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for 2 I o c.*■ , Cut 2 lbs. of the lean part of the leg of veal, hi smaJl pieces (n fat) Wash in cold water, and put in stone jar just S air Add only 2 tablespoonfids water. Cover jar c o-ly and nlace in nan of boiling water to boil on a slow fiie for 2 nouis, wne fl\ the juice or gravy will be extracted, and may be strained off for use. Vegetables ... Cooked in a double pan by steaming, thus preserving are much more digestible than cooked in the ordinary way, and such dlLre as amemia, diabetes, and Bright’s d-ease hai. been tj^ed most successfully, when all other means have failed, by fieely adm istering green food in the form of salads and steamed vegetables. -- InFRED Broadbent, F.S.S., F.R.H.S. For directions to- steam vege- tables see page 58. , Whiting, Plaice, or Sole (steamed). Butter two plates. Lav fillets of fish on one, squeeze a little lemon juice over, add pepper and salt. Set over pan_of boiling water and cover for lid with other plate. Steam from o to 15 minutes according to size. , , ,, Lamb, veal, or mutton cutlets may be cooked the same ^^y,jir portions of chicken. Very light and appetising. Prepare a little LlicaU sauce to pour round before serving. \ eal erroneously con- sidered indigestible—it is one of the first things that can be given to an invalid if properly cooked.