183 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. an egg may be stirred in if ordered. Useful also in phthisis "'flstuig diseases, and for thin, delicate children. Barley Water. Take of Robinson’s Patent Barley 1 ounc^) \ water into a smooth paste free from luj'«ps- Pour this into a stew- pan containing 1 quart of boiling stir this over the fire while boiling for 5 minutes; then flavocir with a small bit of lemon peel or cinnamon, and sweeten accor>-hng to taste. ]\'0TE.—When the Patent Barley is used to make a summer bever- age, only J ounce must be taken. Barley Water for Invalids or Nursing: Mothers. Thoroughly wash 2 ounces of barley; put in a clean pot on the fire, with 2 quarts of cold water, and boil it until it is reduced to 1 quart; then strain it, arid let it cool; add a little sugar. A slice of lemon, or an apple out in slices, may be added if liked. The barley can be used for soup, or made into a pudding. Clear Barley Water. 2 oz. Barley, 1 oz. Sugar, Rind and Juice of 1 Lemon. Pour over it 1 pint boiling water. Set in same manner as apple water. Black Currant Drink. Take 1 good tablespoonfnl of black currant jam, place it in a jug, pour on ^ pint of boiling water, stir thoroughly, and cover top of jug with a folded cloth. When nearly cold stir again and strain into another jug through a clean gravy strainer or piece of muslin. Red currant jam can be treated in the same manner. Particularly good for sore throat or any form of.illness where thirst is groat and fruit drinks are allowed. Black Currant Vinegrar. Fill a large jug nearly full with black currants, then fill up with vinegar, and let this stand 8 or 10 days , each day stirring it well and mashing the currants. At the end of that time strain oft’ the vinegar, and to every pint add f lb. loaf sugar. Boil it until quite clear, taking off the scum as it rises. Let it go quite cold, then bottle it and cork it securely. Good for colds and coughs. Bread and Milk. 5 pint Sweet Milk, J of a round of Bread from a 2 lb. loaf, 2 lumps Sugar. Cut the bread about f in. thick and remove any burnt or black- ened crust. Cut it into dice and lay in small basin. Bring milk and sugar to the boil, pour over the bread. Cover basin with a plate for 5 minutes to keep in the steam, but keeping hot (on range top) Stir well and serve. or, Soak the bread with boiling water. Strain, and add the boiling sweetened milk. Breadberry or Toast Water. 1 slice Bread, a large cup of boiling Water. Toast the bread on both sides till quite dry and a nice brown, but not burnt. Break it, and put it in a jug; pour the boiling water over it, and cover. Let it stand till cold, and strain. Cooling.