TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 205 whites of 2 eggs to clear ifc. Mix it in an earthomvare jar, and strain it through a cloth into a second earthenware jar. Let it stand all night, and then bottle it the next morning (stone bottles best). Fit for use in 3 or 4 days in warm weather. Cingor Syrup. 8 drachms Tincture of Cayenne, 3 drachms Essence of Ginger, 4 lb Lump Sugar, i oz. Tartaric Acid, 6 quarts of Boiling Water. Boil sugar and water foi- 3 minutes. When nearly cold add the other ingredients (the tartaric acid dissolved in a little water), and colour with burnt sugar. Ging^er Wine. 3 dr. Essence Ginger, 2 dr. Essence Cayenne, 6 dr. Burnt Sugar, 6 dr. Citric Acid, 3 lb. White Sugar, 7 bottles Water. Boil water and sugar for twenty minutes. When cold add essences. Harvest Drinks. Stokos is the best drink for hard work—it is very strengthening, easily made, and cheap. Put J lb. of fine oatmeal, about 6 oz. of sugar, and I a lemon cut into slices, into a pan ; mix all together with a little warm water, then add a gallon of boiling water; stir thoroughly, and use when cold. The lemon may be omitted, or any other flavouring may be used instead. Pure “Lime Fruit Juice” makes an excellent flavouring, about 3 tablespoonfuls to the gallon, put in when cold. Cost, 3d a gallon. CoKOS is a good, nourishing drink, made as follows: —6 oz, of sugar, 6 oz. of good fine oatmeal, -1 oz. of cocoa, mixed into a thin batter; then add a gallon of boiling water; can bo kept in a stone jar. Cost, l|cl a quart. LuMONADn is one of the mo.st refreshing of drinks. It may be made either for present use, or to be bottled and mixed with water as wanted, ancl there are many ways of making both kinds. Tlie follow- ing are perhaps the best: — For present use.—Put 1 lb. of white sugar, 1 oz. cream of tartar, and 2 lemons cut in slices (or a teaspoonful essence of lemon) in a large jug, ancl pour over all 3 quarts of boiling water. This is a veiy cooling drink, and costs about 2d a quart. Note.—One lemon is about equal to 10 drops of essence of lemon, or to I drachm of citric acid. If essence of lemon is used in place of lemon, it should be mixed when it is lukewann. A good harvest drink.—Boil oz. hops and oz. ginger (bruised) in 1^ gallons of water for 25 minutes; add 1 lb. of best brown sugar, and boil 10 minutes more; then strain, and bottle while hot. It will be ready for drinking when cold. It should be kept in a cool place. Dried horehound may be used instead of hops. Cost, 3d a gallon. One ounce of coffee and A ounce of sugar, in 2 quarts of water, is a very thirst-quenching drink; so is cold tea ; but neither of these is so supporting as the oatmeal drinJv. Boiling water poured on a few slices of lemon, with a little sugar, makes a refreshing drink. Lemonade. 1 lb. of powdered Loaf Sugar, IJ oz. of Tartaric Acid, 1 teaspoonful of Easonce of Lemon. Pour on the sugar 1 pint of boiling water; when melted, stir in the aoid and lemon essence. When cold, put in well-corked bottles.