73 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. peeled and sliced tomatoes, the milk and beaten eggs. Mix well and put in greased pie^lish. Shake over a handful bread-crumbs, add a few tiny dots of butter, and bake till blown. Vegetarian Omelet. 2 teacupfn’B of Bread Crumbs, i lb. Macaroni, 1 large Spanish Onion, 1 epper and Salt, piece of Butter the size of an egg. Put a layer of crumbs, boiled macaroni, and onions; then bea,t up 2 eggs mixed in a pennyworth of sweet milk, pour over ingredients and bake in the oven. Onions, Stuffed.. Take some Spanish onions; peel and scoop out a part of the insides, which must be finely chopperl; then mix some bread ciumbs, a little butter and cream. Season with pepper and salt, put into the onions; then steam or stew till tender, and seiwe with brown sauce. Harvest Pie. Tlie ingredients must be prepared beforehand. Potatoes boiled not too soft to slice, 1 carrot, ^ swede turnip, 3 medium onions, boiled ^ hour, then out up and stewed in fresh cold water till tender, J lb. chestnuts, cut crosswise at point, boiled quickly 20 minutes, peeled and skinned, also 1 dessertspoon tapicoa soaked all night in cold water. Put all in a pie-dish. Moisten well with milk. If liked, add 2 hard-boiled eggs, pepper, and salt. Cover with short crust and balce. Goose Pudding. i lb. scraps of Bread, tablespoonful Flour, pinch of Pepper and Salt, Dripr ping size of egg, teaspoonful Sage rubbed down, 2 tablespoonfuls Milk. Soak bread with boiling water, and drain well; add dry ingre- dients, then milk. Place mixture in well-greased tin ; shred the drip^ ping over the top, and bake 20 minutes. Cut in squares, and servo hot or cold. Rice, with Cheese. Wash a small cupful of rice, and boil it in water until tender. Strain, and add about i pint of milk, a little bit of butter, pepper, and salt. Simmer for a little while, until the rice and milk are blended. Meanwhile, grate 2 or 3 oz. cheese. Grease a pie-dish well with butter, and lay the rice and cheese in alternate layer's, sprinkling cheese on, the top, also a few pieces of butter cut in shreds. Put in the oven until nicely brown, and serve very hot. Rissoles. 1 Potato of middle size-, 1 small Onion, a little Parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs, ^ teaspoon Pepper and Salt, mixed; J oz. Butter, ^ tea- spoon Marjoram and Winter Savoury, mixed; and 1 Egg. Boil and bi'uise potato. Boil egg hard and onion soft- Make 8 balls. Boll in egg and bread crumbs, and cook in a little butter either in oven or over fire. Serve with brown sauce, in which is a very little ketchup. Bread and Cheese Rissoles. 1 breakfastcupful Brown Bread Crumbs, 1 do. Grated Cheddar Cheese, a little chopped Parsley, and 1 Egg. Mix all with the beaten egg, form into balls, and fry in boiling fat for about 10 minutes, or steam with a little milk and no parslev for 1 hour and turn out,