2R1ED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 52 Mince Pie. 1 teacupful Flour, 2 oz. Butter, ^ teaspoonful Eoyal Baking Powder, J tea- cupful cold Water, | lb. Mince. Half cook mince, and season it with salt and pepper, then lay aside to cool. Make paste, and divide into two pieces. Put one into flat tin ; then put cold mince on it, and cover with other half of paste. Decorate, and bake. Mince, with Tomatoes. Put G or 8 small tomatoes into a dripping tin, and on top of these a little butter, dripping, or lard; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper; put into oven for 5 or 10 minutes. Don’t cook them too much. Take 1 small tomato, sliced; a small piece onion, finely minced; about ^ oz. butter, f or 1 lb. meat, either minced or cut in squares; salt, pepper, teacupful stock, gravy, or water. Fiy onions in butter; then add sliced tomato, flour, and stock. Stir till it comes to boil, then add seasoning and meat. Warm thoroughly, but don’t let it remain on too long. Dish this, and garnish with the tomatoes. Mutton Cutlets. lbs. best end Neck of Mutton, i lb. Bread Crumbs, 2 Eggs, ^ teaspoonfui Salt, i teaspoonful Pepper. Trim outlets neatly, first having the chine-bone cut off, cut away fat, leaving about 1 inch of bone bare at top. Egg and brqad-orumb cutlets. Set aside for 10 minutes. Repeat the process, then fry 3 or 4 minutes in boiling fat. Serve with Soubise or Tomato sauce. Gar- nish with parsley and lemon. Cold Mutton, Dressed. i lb. Cold Mutton, 4 oz. Fat Bacon, 4 teaspoonful Salt, i do. Pepper, 1 tablespoonful Gravina (Edwards’), 1 teaspoonful Bovril, 1 lb. Chip Potatoes, 1 tablespoonful Ketchup. Cut bacon into dice and fry. Season mutton, cut in neat pieces, and fry in bacon fat. Arrange in centre of ashet, border with chip potatoes, stir into remainder of bacon fat, the bovril, gravina, pepper, salt, ketchup, and \ pint stock. Boil gently 10 minutes. Strain round dish. Garnish with fried croutons and parsley. Ox Tail, Stewed. Place tail in pan, cover with cold water. Bring to boil; strain off water. Wash in warm water, joint, large joints cut in two, dry pieces well. Mix in plate 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 tea- spoon pepper rub each piece over with mixture. Put into pan a tablespoonful of dripping, allow to get quite hot, then fiy pieces all round till "hrown; lift them out; pour out fat; return pieces to pan with onion chopped up, and 2 breakfastcupfuls of water and a little ketchup, and stew slowly for 1| hours. Cut up 1 turnip and 1 carrot, and stew an hour longer. Potato Bridies. Take a few boiled potatoes and form into scones. Have some mincemeat ready ; spread meat pretty dry over half of scone, and turn over other half on meat, and pinch all round. Fried in boiling fat and served hot, these make tasty tit-bits for either breakfast or supper.