TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 84 Sweet Sauce (No. 1). i oz. Butter, ^ pint Milk, i oz. Flour, 2 oz. Sugar (or 3), and a little Cream if required. Mix tlie butter into the flour and sugar thoroughly; add the milk gradually, and bring to the boil, stirring all the time. Flavour with lemon or vanilla or essence of almonds tO' taste. Sweet Sauce (No. 2). 4 lumps Sugar, a nut of Butter, 5 Cloves, a gill of Water. Boil hard for 3 minutes, with lid off pan. Tlien add 2 tablespoon- fuls red currant jelly, and boil 1 minute longer. The syinp of any canned fruit makes a nice sauce, allowing pint of juice to heaped teaspoon corn flour dissolved in a little cold water. Boil 5 minutes. Sweet Jam Sauce. 1 tahlespopnful Jam, do. Sugar, 1 gill Water. Let these boil by side of fire w'hile pudding is cooking. Pour over and I’ound pudding. May add squeeze of lemon juice. Shrimp Sauce. 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, J pint Milk, i pint Shrimps, I teaspoonful Anchovy Essence, i teaspoonful Lemon Juice, good pinch Cayenne. Make sauce. Pick shrimps, remove head, tail, and shell. Put in cold water ^ houi’. Di*ain and add to sauce with anchovy and cayenne. Stir on fire for 1 minute. Add lenion juice. Tomato Butter. 4 Tomatoes, 2 oz. Butter, a little Salt, Cayenne, and Carbonate of Soda (and a few drops of Carmine if needed for colour). Put these in a stewpan on the side of the stove for twenty minutes, and then rub through a hair sieve and re-warm for use. Tomato Gravy. Boil 2 or 3 onions till tender, and take tin oftomatoes, rub both through wire sieve. Add a little water, and bring tO' boil, salt to taste, and thicken with flour mbbed to smooth paste with cold water. Tomato Jelly. Put in pan 1 pint Tomato Puree from tin of Tomato, 1 pint Cold Water, 2 oz. Leaf Gelatine, small piece Carrot, Turnip, and Onion, 1 teaspoonful Salt, j nice from i Lemon, whites and shells of 2 Eggs. Whisk over fire, and strain through cloth in usual w'ay. Add a little carmine to colour after straining. Tomato Sauce. 4 large Tomatoes, 1 small Onion, 1 small Carrot, 1 gill Stock, i teaspoonful Salt, small lump of Sugar, ^ Lemon, Cayenne Pepper. Remove stems of ripe tomatoes; cut them into slices, and steAv with the onion, carrot, and stock till quite soft'. Then pass through hair sieve. Season Avith cayenne, sugar, lemon juice, and salt. Vegetable Sauce. Cut some young carrotei, turnips, and onions in thin stripes an inch long; 1 slice of bacon cut same Ava}', and Avhite of an egg boiled hard. Have bacon and vegetables cooked in Avat'er. Strain, and add to a pint of bmAAqi sauce. Will do for mutton cutlets. White Sauce for Vegetables. 1 oz. Flour, 1 oz. Butter, ^ pint Milk, Salt, Pepper, and a few drops Lemon Juica. Melt the butter and stir in the flour, salt, and pepper; then add the milk gradually, and boil 5 minutes.