160 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. patty pans two-thirds full with the mixture. Place in good oven, and bake for 15 minutes. Sufficient for 12 buns. Rice Cakes. 1 cupful cold boiled Eice, 1 pint Flour, teaspoonful Salt, 2 beaten Eggs, Milk to make a rather thick batter. Beat well, and bake on girdle. Or add a tablespoonful melted butter or lard, make the batter a little thinner with milk, and bake in a hot oven in patty pans. Rock Cakes. 1 lb. Flour, 6 oz. Butter, i lb. Sugar, 1 oz. of Candied Peel (cut thin), 2 tea- spoonfuls of Borwick^s Baking Powder, 2 Eggs, i lb. Currants and Sul- tana Eaisins mixed. Put a dessertspoonful of milk amongst the beat-up eggs. Then stir in with other things, which will only just damp them. Have a large tin dish buttered. Place on tin in 12 little heaps, as rough looking as possible. Bake in quick oven. Sly Cakes. 1 lb. Flour, 8 oz. Butter, 8 oz. Currants, 2 oz. Sugar, 6 drops Essence of Lemon. Mix flour and sugar, make into smooth paste with water, but not very wet. Roll three times, and spread in butter as for pastry. Roll very thin, and cut in round or square cakes; spread ^ inch thick with currants or jam, press another on top, and bake in quick oven. Small Seed Cakes. i lb. Flour, 3 oz. Dripping, 2 tablespoonfuls moist Sugar, 1 do. Carraway Seeds, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 2 Eggs. Rub dripping into flour till like bread crumbs, add baking powder, sugar, and seeds. Drop in unbeaten eggs and a very little milk, and mix to a stiff paste. Place on buttered tin, forming balls quickly with spoon. Spice Cakes. 4 oz. Butter, 4 oz. Sugar, 6 oz. Flour, large teaspoonful Ground Ginger, i tea- spoonful Mixed Spice, 1 tablespoonful Treaclei 1 do. Sweet Milk, ^ tea- spoonful Baking Powder, 2 Eggs. Rub butter, sugar, flour, and spice together; add milk, treacle, and switched eggs. Place ^ of a blanched almond in bottom of each tin. Moderate oven, small tins. Spice Nuts. 1 lb. Flour, \ lb. Butter, 7 oz. Sugar, 10 oz. Syrup, 1 Egg, 1 teaspoouful each of Baking Soda, Mixed Spice, Ginger, and 2 teaspoonfuls of Cin- namon. Knead all together until the dough is very firm. It may require a little more flour. Roll out very thin. Then out with a biscuit cutter the size wished. Bake in a rather quick oven about 10 minutes. Spongre Cakes. 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, 3 oz. Flour, 3 oz. Corn Flour, 2 Eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, Vanilla Essence. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, sift in flour, add yolks, stir well. Add whites, and lastly baking powder. Bake in quick oven about 10 minutes in buttered tins, floured slightly. Tantallon Biscuits. 2 oz. each of flour, rice flour, sugar, and butter, 1 tablespoonful baking powder, flavouring, and 1 egg.