187 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Lemonade. (Olio of tho best beverages for Invalids, in pneumonia meet suitable.) 1 Lemon, IJ oz. Lump Sugar, i pint Cold Water. Roll lemon to soften it. Take off thin outside rind containing isseutial oil, which gives flavour, but no bitter pith. Put in a small 1 x)wl, and add juice. Pour over water, and add sugar. Stand a few lours, then water may be added to make a quart. Never use boiling >vater—it gives a different taste altogether. If you wish it to be ' jffervesoing, add pinch carbonate of soda. Smooth it down with tea- -ipoonful cold water, and pour lemonade over. Linseed or Flaxseed Jelly, for a Cough. 1 lb. Linseed, 1 large Lemon, \ lb. Raisins, i lb. Sugar. Boil the linseed in 2 quarts of water, then let it simmer for 1 hours; strain, return to the pet with raisins and pulp of lemon, and -simmer (without boiling) 1 hour; strain again, and add the sugar ITake a teaspoonful (two or three times a day). This is very good. Linseed Tea. Put into a saucepan 1 tablespoonful of whole linseed, pour on it ]! breakfastcupfuls of water, and boil from 26 to 35 minutes. Strain : t and sweeten with honey or sugar, and add the juice of a lemon. Milk Jelly (1). i pint Milk, ,1 oz. Gelatine, Rind of i Lemon, 1 oz. Loaf Sugar. Put the gelatine in the saucepan with the milk, add the sugar, '.vipe the lemon with a damp cloth, take the yellow peel off veiy thinly, ii'idd it to the other ingixidients. Stir the jelly over very moderate heat luntil the gelatine is melted, strain the jelly into a basin, and stir it occasionally until it is cool; pour into prepared moulds, and put in a L'lKiol place to set. To dish up, dip the moulds quickly in and out of hot v.vater, and turn the jellies on a dish. Milk Jelly (2). Cover f packet of gelatine with cold water until soft, then pour I over it ^ pint boiling water, ^ lb. castor sugar. Beat up 3 egga thor- oughly, add 1 pint millc. Mix these well together, and add to the (gelatine and sugar. Strain the juice of 3 lemons into it all and stir. Pi’our it into a mould until set firmly. Milk.Jelly (3). Soak a 6d packet of gelatine, or, better still, Mackay’s extract of ;alves’ feet, in 1 pint sweet milk, overnight, or for 6 houi-s at least IBring this to the boil, and stir constantly, as there will be a great ten- lency to set to the pan. Add a few drops of any essence and 2 oz. ■nigar. Tlren pour into mould, and set in cold water till required. Milk and Suet. ■nat ^ tablespoonful of shredded beef ■met, beat it sufficiently to dissolve tre suet, then skim and pour into i warm glass, drinking it before it cools R i i lo Or boil slowly 1 oz of suet (chopped finely and tied loosely in a nuslin bag) in a quart of new milk. The milk may be then drunk. ^ simmer gently, stirring fre- quently till the milk 18 as thiok as good cream. Strain, and flavour ivith almonds or lemon, which effectually disguises the taste of the suet;