177 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Chops or Steaks. Sprinkle with a little salt, lay between 2 buttered plates, and place the plates over a pan of boiling water and boil gently for 30 min- utes. Serve at once. Convalescent Soup. Take 3 pints Water, 1 Nap Bone, 1 oz. Butter, 1 sprig Parsley, 1 sprig Thyme, 1 piece Sage, i lb. Veal, email piece Carrot and Turnip, 1 pinch Celery Seed, 3 Cloves and 1 Bay Leaf, 1 blade Mace, ^ oz. Isinglass, i lb. Mutton (lean), 1 small Onion (scalded), 24 Peppercorns, 1 dessertspoonful Salt, i oz. Vermicelli. Melt butter in ai pan. Put bon© ati bottonii, then the meat cut in small pieces an inch square. Sprinkle over the i.singlassi and vermi- celli. Put the vegetables, &o., in a piece of muslin, and add to the pan. Pour O'ver the water. Put tJie lid on pan when it boils, and skim thoroughly. Simmer for G hours. Strain aiwl cool. Remove fat with a spoon dipped in hot water. Seiwo either cold as a jelly, or hot with a small piece of toast. Invalid Jelly. i lb. each of Veal, Mutton, and the best Stoak, 2 tablespoon fills Water. Cut meat into small pieces and put intO' a close jar with the water and iiinoh of salt. Steam G hours. Strain and put into small pots. Invalid Soup. ^ pint beef tea put in pan with i oz. tapioca. Stir over fire till it comes to boil, then ocoasionally, till tapioca swells and is cooked. Flavour with salt and pepper. Cool a little and stir in yolk of egg. Simmer only very slowly till egg is sufficiently cooked. Serve with sippets of toast—only 1 teacupful at a time. Stir always before using, to get strength of soup. Invalid Mock Turtle Soup. 1 oz. Calf’s Foot, 2 oz. Ham, 1 Clove, small piece Turnip, and Carrot, 1 quart Cold Water, Salt. Foot must be scalded. Lentil and Barley Cream. Make stock of equal parts of barley and lentils and a few celery seeds to flavour. Add a small teacup plasmon sauce. Heat up and serve. Mushroom Tea. Wash and stew for i hour 4 oz. mushrooms in a breakfastcup water. Strain. Dissolve a teaspoon plasmon in a little water, and add to the liquid with seasoning. Boil up 3 minutes. Serve with toast. Mutton Broth or Chicken Broth. (Made in same way.) Put the meat into a lined pan with water, salt, and barley. Boil gently 4 hours. Remove scum on top, and strain through hair sieve, ladling it out by degrees to get solid matter through the sieve. Quadruple Soup. 1 lb. Beef, 1 lb. Mutton, 1 lb. Veal, 1 Ox Foot, i ut on with 4 pints of cold water and simmer (not boil) for 8 or 9 liours, until the liquor is reduced to 3 pints. Remove solids and strain liquor into jars (3 two-lb. jars). When cold and firm, about an inch of