TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 121 begins to firm, edge a knife under it. Toss or turn it. When it is a light golden brown remove from pan, sift sugar over and fold like a scroll, or in 3 corners. Serve with cut lemon or orange marmalade. Plain Pancakes (2). J lb. Flour, 'i pint Milk, 1 Egg, Sugar to sprinkle. Add- milk to flour gradually. When a smooth batter, add un- beaten yolk of egg. Mix well, and let stand a few hours before dinner. IVhen ready to cook pancakes whip white very stiffly ; add lightly to batter, and fry as usual. Squeeze lemon juice over, and serve. Pancakes (3). 1 breakfastcupful Flour, pinch of Salt, do. of Sugar, 3 Eggs (yolks and whites to be switched separately). Mix flour to a batter with milk ; add switched eggs, and drop into buttered frying-pan 2 or 3 spoonfuls at a time. If batter is allowed to stand for 1 hour at least, pancakes are lighter. Plantain Pudding:. Bake a custard in a pie-dish; when ready put away till cold. Turn out in a crystal and spread raspberry jam over it. Slice bananas over to cover and rei^eat process, spreading jatn and bananas alter- nately. When the dish is piled as high as required, whip cream till it is very thick and pour over all. N.B. —It is necessary that rasp- berry jam is used, because no other brings out the flavour so well. Polish Pancakes (Nalesnikis). Take 4 eggs and beat them up very thoroughly with about f pint milk, 1 oz. butter that has been oiled, ^ a grated nutmeg, and about 6 lumps of sugar that have been rubbed on the outside of a lemon. Mix in sufficient flour—about 6 oz.—gradually, to make the whole to a very smooth batter. Melt a little butter in frying pan, and when it frizzles pour in some of the batter and sprinkle over a few currants. When pancake is fried, sift sugar over, roll up, and serve hot. Shrove Tuesday Pancakes. Beat 4 eggs thoroughly into 12 oz. of flour, a saltspoon of salt, 2 or 3 oz. sugar, ^ teaspoon baking powder, grate nutmeg, and as much milk as makes a fairly thick batter. Beat till quite smooth. Fry with dripping instead of butter, 3 or 4 at a time in a large frying- pan. One spoonful will do for a nice-sized pancake. Pile up and keep hot. Snow Pancakes. Make in same way, using 3 tablespoonfuls snow and only 1 egg. Paradise Pudding;. J lb. Suet, J lb. Sultanas, J lb. Sugar, 1 oz. Orange Peel, J lb. Bread Crumbs J lb. minced Apples, 3 Eggs'. Steam in buttered mould 4 hours.