TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 125 lastly the eggs, well beaten. Steam 2 hours. The marmalade may be kept out, and the mould ornamented with dried cherries or raisins. Potato Pudding-. Line pudding dish with light paste. Boil and mash potatoes, then pass through sieve, add 4 eggs, or 4 yolks and 2 whites well beaten, juice of a lemon dropped on sugar and then sugar grated. Beat till mixture is very light, then bake 20 or 30 minutes in quick oven and sprinkle sugar over. ' ■ * Plum Pudding (1). 2 lb. flour, 1| lb. bread crumbs, 2J lb. suet, 3 lb. raisins, 3 Ib. currants, 2 lb. sultanas, 1 lb. mixed peel, IJ lb. sugar, | lb. chopped almonds, 3 pints milk, 10 eggs, 2 carrots (grated), nutmeg, spice and salt to taste. To be boiled G hours. This quantity makes four good- sized puddings. Plum Pudding, without milk or eggs (2). 1 lb. rioiir, i lb. Currants, i lb. Kai.sins, { lb. Suet, i lb. moist Sugar, 1 oz. candied Lemon, i lb. boiled Potatoes (thoroughly mashed), and a little Salt added; j lb. Carrots, boiled sufficiently tender to' pulp through a colander; a little Nutmeg, or Nutmeg and Winger to taste. The. weight of the carrots and potatoes must be estimated after mashing. Mix all well together over night, commencing with the carrots and sugar. Flour cloth well, and tie pudding loosely, as it will swell. No liquid must be added, or pudding will be spoiled. Boil 4 hours; let it remain in the cloth a few minutes before turning out. (Much more easily digested than any other plum-pudding.) Plum Pudding (3). } lb. Flour, J lb. Bread Crumbs, i lb. finely chopped Beef Suet, i lb. Sugar, J lb. Eaisins, stoned, 1 teaspoonful of Allspice, same of Cinnamon, and 1 Nutmeg, grated. 3 or 4 Eggs, i lb. chopped Apples, 1 cup Milk. Mix eggs with milk, and add last. Mix well and boil 8 hours. Plum Pudding (4). 2 lb. Eaisins, 1 lb. Currants, 1 lb. Sultanas, 2 lb. Suet, 1 lb. Flour, 1 lb. Bread Crumbs, 1 lb. scraped Carrots, 1 lb. Mi-xed Peel, J lb. Sweet Almonds (blanched and chopped), 8 tablespoonfuls Brown Sugar, 2 do. Vinegar, 7 Eggs, Salt and Spice to taste, 2 teaspoonfuls Carbonate of Soda dissolved in half pint of milk added just before Vinegar at the last. Boil 6 or 7 hours. Makes 4 puddings. Plum Pudding (5). J lb. Eaisins, J lb. Currants, 1 lb. Bread Crumbs, i lb. Minced Suet, 2 tablespoons Flour, 1 oz. each of Lemon, Citron, and Orange Peel, J lb. Brown Sugar, a little Mixed Spice (say 2 teaspoonfuls). Mix all these well together (having previously minced the peel very fine), with 4 eggs well beaten and strained, and sufficient milk to make the whole into a stiff mass. Butter a quart basin and fill quite full, place over tlie top a thin paste made of flour and water, securing it well over the edge, tie up in a wet pudc]ing cloth, and put into boiling water and boil for 10 hours. Any Da.y Plum Pudding, 1 breakfastcup Sweet Milk, 1 do. Treacle, 1 do. each of Eaisins, Currants, and Suet (or 1 teacup Butter). 1 teaspoonful Salt, and do. of Soda, sifted with 3 breakfastcups Flour, 1 teaspoonful each of Cinnamon and Allspice. Mix milk, treacle, sugar, and spice. Add to flour and fruit, and boil 3 hours. A cup of prunes and dates may be substituted for the