TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. no pour oil lliG ctikcs. Heut tho wliites to <1 stift froth, and spioad ovei the pudding. Bake for at least hour in a moderate oven. Marble Pudding’. Put six penny packets gelatine to soak in a cup of milk. When soaked, add it to a pint of boiling milk, 2 oz. sugar, and stir over fire till all is dissolved. Divide into five parts and flavour each with different flavourings and different colours. Colour one with yolk of egg, leave one white, one brown with coffee, one red with cochineal, one green with a few drops of spinach juice, Half cool the mixture, then pour into a round basin in reversible manner. When cold, turn out and garnish with different shades of jelly. Marmalade Pudding. 2 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Sugar, 2 oz. Butter, 2 Eggs, 1 tablespoonful of Marmalade, 1 small teaspooiiful of Bi-earbonate of Soda. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, butter, marmalade, yolks of eggs, and soda. Mix these well together; tlien whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the juixtui'e, stirring all well together. Pour it into a buttered mould, and boil for 1 hour. Serve with sweet sauce. Milk Dumpling. 3 oz. Flour, li oz. Sugar, pinch of Salt, Dripping. Place etpial (piantities of dripping and water on fire. When it comes to ))oll mix gradually with flour, itc., and make, say, 9 small dumplings. Rub them round until you feel them drag on your palm. Cook them from 5 to 7 minutes in boiling milk, stirring about gently with fork. They are ready when they rise to the top of the milk. Make sauce of the milk tliey have been boiled in, by adding i (iz. sugar and juice of h lemon. Pour round and serve <iuickly. Mince Meat (1). Equal quantities of Beef Suet, blue itaisins. Currants, Apples, and Sugar. Mince separ.ately very fine. Mix all together. Add cinnamon, ginger, mace, and ground cloves-r-enough to spice pretty highly; then moisten with the juice of ns many lemons as required, to make it moderately soft; press firmly into jars. Don’t fill too full; cover, and set away till Christmas. The suet must be boiled : that is what makes it keep so well. Will keep for years. Put it in a pan, well covered with water. Let all the water boil away, and then melt the fat out. Pour it into a pie-dish, with a little water at the bottom. Any sediment will fall out, and the suet will turn out a solid block of pure white fat, which must be minced fine. Mince Meat (2). 1 lb. Apples, ^ lb. Grapes, i lb. Raisins, i lb. Currants, i lb. Brown Sugar, '• j lb. mixed Peel, grated Lemon, or Orange Rind and Juice; i teaspoonful Cinnamon, a pinch of Salt. Peel, core, and slice tlie apples, stone the raisins, wash and dry the currants, cut the peel and chop all finely together, adding the sugar, which makes them easier to chop. Skin and stone the grapes, putting the pulp into a basin, and press well with a wooden spoon ; then add all the ingredients, and mix very thoroughly. , Put into a jar, and tie closely down at once. N.B.—(1) If wanted richer, a smaller quantity of apples can be used, and it is often preferred without the candied peel. (2) The