TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 27 add parsley, stir well and cook 5 minutes, and add to fish. Bread crumbs may be used, also bread sauce. A Timbale of Fish. Take 2 oz. cooked Macaroni, and 4 oz. cooked Fish, 1 oz. Butter, J gill hot Milk, i teaspoonful Salt, i teaspoonful Pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls Lemon Juice, and 2 Eggs beaten to a froth. Mix all thoroughly and pour into buttered mould. Steam ^ hour. Cover with white sauce and garnish with parsley. Trout. Small-sized trout are best fried. Clean them, and wipe them di-y with a cloth—a soft cloth and a gentle hand are necessai'y. Then dredge them lightly with flour, or roll in fine oatmeal. Melt enough dripping in your frying-pan to just cover the fish; when it is still and smoking, put in the fish one at a time, with a few seconds between each, so as to keep up the heat of the fidture. Fry a golden brown, take up, sprinkle with sale, drain on thickly-folded kitchen paper in front of the fire, and serve—a good appetite is the only sauce needed. Largo trout are good for grilling, which can be done in several ways. The fish can be cleaned, wiped, rubbed over with oiled butter, and placed on a gridiron over a very claar fire, being' turned several rimes in the process of cooking. Whiting: (Cream of). 4 Whiting, 2 Eggs, a little Lobster Spawn Scrape the fish off the bones, put the fish through a mincing machine or pound it in a mortar, then pass it through a hair sieve with the eggs. Afterwards mix with it i pint of milk and cream mixed, pepper and salt to taste, and steam for i hour. Make some white sauce, pass the lobster spawn through a sieve into the sauce, let it come to the boil, then pour it over the fish. Whiting:s (Baked). Butter a baking-dish and sprinkle with chopped parsley, then onion, a little salt, and grated nutmeg. Place the whitings in the dish, pour a little melted butter over, and a little white stock. Put in oven, and when halt cooked turn them cai’efully. When ready, pour the juice off into a pan, add some melted butter, and boil. Add a few drops lemon juice and a little white pepper. Pour over whitings and serve. Whiting: (Fried). Skin the whiting; remove the gills and eyes; dry them thor- oughly, and draw the tails through the eyes. Roll in flour, and biaish over with egg. Put into a basket, with enough smoking fat to cover. Fry gently, 5 minutes, a nice brown. Drain on soft paper. Dish in a ring, and garnish with parsley, fried; and serve with sauce.